(bright music) - [Judge] In the old west, justice and courtrooms The men who had conquered the complete rulers of their The law held otherwise. The United States Circuit Judge needed three things to bring a law book, a horse, and a gun. The further west he got, I was headed west. - For the goodness of mercy, now follow me all the days of my life. Now we dwell in the house May the Lord keep thee and bless thee. May the Lord make up his face to shine upon thee forever and ever, amen. (mellow music) (dogs barking) - Hey Colonel, he's here. - How do you know? Could be a preacher in that getup. - No, that's Thorne, all right. Wait a minute, Colonel, that seen him come into town, I think that's deserving of a drink. Don't you think I should - I have a horse outside needs caring for. - You had to wake me? I was dreamin'. Number 10, $2 a day. Pay the fella before you stay - Oh that's fine for him, - Oh, well in that case, - And the horse? - Another dollar in advance. - Excuse me, sir. Take that back, you the best room in the It pays to keep your money You're Bannerman's - The town or Mr. Bannerman? - Well sir, it's a mite difficult to tell where one begins and the other leaves off. As for myself, sir, I'm at your service, sir. And I do hope that service can begin at the Bannerman Bar across the street. - Do you work for Mr. Bannerman, Colonel? - Well sir, when I need In the main, I'm attorney for the United States government, sir. - That's what I understood. I don't see how you Room 10 is good enough. I don't wanna live too soft, - Well sir, I'm afraid that's gonna make Mr. Bannerman very unhappy, sir. - Well, I didn't come here As a circuit judge, it's my to attend to any cases that and wherever I can, to the foundations of law and order. - Of course. I might step across the to see if they're selling - Well, good for you, sir. Judge for movin' day, you - I didn't tell you to keep the change. - Oh, oh sure. - I'll need it to pay for my own drinks. Is there a place in town that - This is a Bannerman town, Your Honor. Name's Bannerman, heart - If it isn't Bannerman, - Cousins, Your Honor. - Family takes care of its - Got an immigration case, illegal entry. - Well, do the Bannermans - That's government business, Your Honor. - Where's this Joaquin Morales? - I got him locked up. - Bring him in, I'll I noticed a funny thing, Colonel. Every time there's a transport property or a dispute over a property hereabouts, the amount involved never exceeds $499. - That is a strange fact, Your Honor. - Especially since the would bring these cases - Fortunately, sir, you are - The burden rests Joaquin Morales? - Si, senor. - There's 300 acres, $499, 1,200 acres, $499, 750 acres, $499. - Mr. Bannerman - Keeping it away from - That is so, Your Honor. I suspect Mr. Bannerman - That's what I intend to Well? - Illegal entry and so forth and so forth. First question, why did you do it? (speaking in foreign language) - His wife died. No job. Says this is a rich country. - And I oughta, I wouldn't if Mr. Bannerman could (kids cheering) Seems a pity you had to ride 60 miles. I wrote the government didn't Do real well by ourselves. - Last item population. - 507. - I hope, Your Honor, you without according Mr. Bannerman the opportunity to extend - This is dated last week. - Well, population doesn't - It's changed in the last couple of days, there was a funeral yesterday morning. - Not a resident, sir. He was a stranger. - What was the cause of death? - I beg your pardon, sir? - What did he die of, this stranger? What was his name? - Name, sir? - His name was Morrison. Died of a gunshot wound. - It was a clear case of - That's what they told me. - A case, who tried him? - I didn't mean a case in It was a matter, Mr. Bannerman - Did he? Where's the record of the arrest? - I didn't make an arrest. - Judge, it was self-defense. - Who did the shooting? - Well now, I suppose - Tom who? - Bannerman. - The old man's son, his only boy. - I don't understand this, Marshal, there's been a killing in your - Your Honor, folks here used and tendin' to their own affairs. It's a frontier, sir, the garment of social - I'm here to tighten it up. Bring in this Tom Bannerman. - Your Honor. I can do that without a posse. - Form one. Or the men who work for them? - You see how it is, sir. - I see how it is. - I'll tie it up for you, Mr. Hammer. - Judge still in there? - Colonel? And they're talkin' about Tom Bannerman. Oh say, it's been awful and you know the dust gets in Oh I thought you. - You've got to decide Bannerman or the federal government. - Mr. Hammer, sir, this Your Honor, may I present the president of the bank. - That's the only bank there is. - Are you a Bannerman? - Hammer, sir, Hammer. - No, sir. - You had to think it over, though. What do you know about this killing you had in your town? - Killing? We don't have killings here. - Well maybe you call them something else, but Thomas Bannerman did shoot and grievously wound one Sidney Morrison, after which act said Sidney Morrison did languish, suffer, and - Your Honor, you misjudge Tom. I take my oath he's not a bad boy. - I haven't misjudged him, That'll take place at the trial. Trial, gentlemen, I happen to know there's never been one in this town but a man's been gunned to death and the law demands a search - I don't know what Mr. - We'll hear from him. - Him and Tom. - Your Honor, did you ever hear the recipe for makin' tiger stew? First, you catch a tiger. (gun firing) (Tom laughing) - He keeps moving it. - Maybe it takes a man to hit a target that won't stay still. - Here. Pretend this is your bridegroom (gun firing) (Tom laughing) (gun firing) - Amy Lee, that's no way to treat a nice, quiet bank manager - Then don't tell me to marry him. - Mr. Bannerman. Amy Lee. - Amy Lee, I sent you to that fancy school to learn you some manners, - Hello, Arnold. - Give your fiance a kiss. (gun firing) - Isn't that kind of dangerous? - A couple of bear cubs playing around are bound to get a few scratches. Where's that judge? I told you to bring him here for supper. - Didn't seem like a he's lookin' for Tom. - What's he want me for? - Sid Morrison. - He been out in the sun too long? That Morrison business is finished. - He says no, he wants ya. - Sounds real stiff neck. - I couldn't reason with him. I don't why I tried. Simple thing to me seems explain how it came to be self-defense, let the whole thing blow over. - Amy Lee, I never said you But who else is there - You're loco if you marry her, she'll finish you off inside of two weeks. - He's gonna come here to my holdings, my town, and carry himself high, huh? - Is it true he carries a gun? A judge? - I'm goin' into town, - You're gonna stay here. - I'm goin' to town. - Are you afraid of this judge? - No. - But you heard a few stories about him and you want cousin - Tom's a fool, he made - What's worse than a Bannerman hiding? You still say it was self-defense? - Would I lie? - Oh, you've had plenty of practice. - If I may say a word-- All right, boy, take some men into town, bring that judge back here for supper. - Bring him back here? I aim to chase him down the road. - You're gonna bring him back here! We're gonna give him the show him why it pays to stand - You Bannerman stand above everybody, you're sort of like a royal line. - I don't know why anybody should want to marry into it, Hammer. It's a grave responsibility. (gun firing) (all laughing) (mellow music) (men clamoring) - What are you doing here, Tom? Shouldn't you get back to the ranch? - Where's the judge - There's reason to jaw, - Oh, I've come here to ask him to put his feet under our table. - That's a fool idea. - Colonel, never call a Bannerman a fool, somebody'll cut your wages. - Yeah, that'll happen. - Come on in. Good evening, Colonel. - And if I place a greetin' to you, sir. That is to say I hope you're pleasant. - Well, why shouldn't I be? - Tom Bannerman's here. - That's what I wanted, isn't it? - Judge, I wish I could make he's just a reckless, playful boy. - Then he shouldn't be - He's at the Bannerman Saloon now. - Just a playful boy. - I should point out, Your Honor, that he's accompanied by - 12 is more than several, Colonel. That's what windows are for. - Well, that's better. Judge, you're a man of No use tanglin' with the Bannermans, they'll tend to their own problems. Someday they'll realize - Colonel, a circuit judge I understand a federal - That's totally correct, Your Honor. - Makes it easy for a man - He's in town. - Are you backin' me? - I'll tell ya how it is, Judge. I've been around here too long to have much faith in anything. You go after him. When I see it, I'll back you. (bright music) (men clamoring) - Pick it up, take it up. Take it up, take it up, take it. (all laughing) - What'll it be, Judge? - Which one of these men is Tom Bannerman? - You want Tom, holler it out. He wants to talk to you, - Good evening, Judge. - Bannerman? give him a drink. - No thanks. How else anybody gonna - We'll manage. I'm glad you came to town of it'll count in your favor at the trial. - What kind of trial? - You're under a charge of murder. - It was self-defense. - Are you this man's lawyer? - I'm Sam Kettering. - Oh, one of the family. - You must be crazy in the head trying to come in here and - He's charged with murder. - We'll decide the charge. - In any event, Your Honor, to take the boy to lockup, now is there? Whatever bail you set will be forthcomin'. - I'll decide the charge and the bail and there'll be no bail. - You're a hard-nose, all right. - They tell stories about you. - I'm taking you to jail, Bannerman. - They say you pack a - I don't want to turn you'll have a fair trial - No. I like shooting. (punch landing) - All right, Judge, we Now let him go. - The court's established a fact, Colonel. The prisoner who pleads self-defense doesn't hesitate to Jail's across the street. (men clamoring) - What do you want us to do, Tom? - Shut up. - What's the matter with you boys? Nobody takes a Bannerman to jail. (gun firing) (glass shattering) - [Judge] How strong is your jail? - His old man will tear it apart. - If we let him. - This is the first time since I put this star on I been able to work at it. - How's it feel? - Loathsome. (hooves clopping) - Colonel. (broom sweeping) Mornin', son. Bright, beautiful morning. Morning, Judge, I do - I sat by my window watching the street. - Well, no need to do that, Your Honor. This is a law-abidin' town. Well, reasonably law-abidin'. - Where's the nearest telegraph office? - That would be Cottonwood, - I've got to ask Washington - You do not, Your Honor. I anticipated the need and I - You did what? - I sent a rider to He sped a telegram to I already have the reply. I fully realize my new and I'll rise to it in a to flagstone and our great - You work fast, Colonel. - Well, I knew you couldn't Your prisoner might escape - I might have sent the marshal. - Oh, yes you're right, Your Honor. Who knows what accident Difficult country, Your - Bannermans. - Exactly. You think you might talk to - What witnesses? - Why, the ones that saw - No, Mr. Prosecutor, I think we can dispense - They could establish the - Isn't the prosecutor supposed - Why, Your Honor, I'm - So am I, Colonel, so am I. - Good morning, Judge. - Everything quiet? - Just give 'em time. - How are you this morning? You'll have breakfast in a minute or two, they're sending it over from the hotel. Is there a lawyer in town you wanna hire? I'm gonna ask you to sign a statement. - When you gonna take me out and hang me? - Well, it's a little - The tree ain't been planted yet. - We'll knock somethin' together. - I'm gonna drag you behind a horse til there ain't an inch You won't fool with any Bannermans til we get through with ya. You'll be pickin' your hide off every rock and mesquite bush in the county! - He's the one can do it, too, he once killed a Mexican like that. Got in there. - Over what? - Mexican spilled a pot of coffee on him. - When was that? - Oh, that was before my - Self-defense again? That's a funny thing about the Bannermans, folks are always pickin' on 'em. - Morrison's widow still in town? - Yeah, next street over, - Well, something new has come to town. His Honor, I suppose? What a waste. - Amy Lee Bannerman, Judge, cousin. He's such a fool, Judge, good thing you're teaching him a lesson. - Oh, I'm not teaching him, - Do you know where Josiah is now? I locked him in his room If he rides in and Tom is still in jail, he will burn this town to the ground. - That's a serious crime, I'd - Josiah? First of all, you couldn't. Second, this town is ours. - No, that's a state of The town belongs to the people and laws have been - And you're the great big champion who's going to see to it, whether they want protection or not. - No matter what they say, they usually want it, Miss Bannerman. - Amy Lee. - If the prisoner's they can have five minute visits. - Well, he's human. - One at a time at a nothing passing from hand to hand. Miss Bannerman. - I blame his wife. He's the kind who would have Probably nine children, all afraid of him. - He didn't say. - Sid was good to me. He never raised a lot of dust, but I knew about that when I married him. I married him because, because he was Sid. That was about the only thing he could do well, braid rawhide. He was always braiding, - Knew how, I'd like to buy some of this, I could use a new bridle. - You don't have to feel I've got money, enough to get home with. - Where's that? - Pennsylvania. Anyway, that's where my folks are. Sid and I, we never had what We just drifted, Sid always laughing and saying someday he'd find a gold mine, we'd start a cattle ranch He laughed a lot, that Sid Morrison. - He wasn't much of a - Sid? Even out here, he wouldn't carry a gun. They say that he did. They say that he used this, I don't see how he could have - How'd you come by it? - They brought it to me after. A lawyer, his name was Colonel Streeter. He brought it to me with some money from Tom Bannerman's father. Like I said, enough to get home on. - Old Bannerman payin' your way home? - They said they didn't - What was the fight about, Mrs. Morrison? The trouble between Tom Bannerman and your husband, what was it about? - How could I know? We'd only gotten to town Everything seemed to be all right. - Did your husband know - No. - Did you? - I'll have to take this with me. - I don't care. - There's gonna be a trial. - I don't care what you do. (somber music) - Did Tom Bannerman bother you? Did he? - I don't want any trouble. If you tell this to anybody, - Even under oath? (water splashing) - Thanks, it's a hot day. Mr. Kettering. Colonel, where'd the shooting take place? - Didn't see it myself, Your Honor. Somewhere near the edge of town. - I can ask the Marshal, It' a small town, which edge? - Past the corral, sir. - I understand young Tom Bannerman is not exactly bashful with the ladies. - Well sir, as a former expert in manners concerned with these, I'd - I don't like what you said. - I said it was a hot day. - But I don't like the way you said it. - Go ahead. (punch landing) (water splashing) Colonel. - A mighty unusual judge, sir. - A very unusual prosecutor. - This is a nice town, Your Honor. Folks get to like you here. - Bannerman folks? - Well, they are just Like doin' things their way, that's all. Men like you could settle this town, get elected year after year. Might even be sent to our - With Bannerman backin' me. - I'll ask about that Who lives there? - Oh, nobody of any - Colonel, a man has been killed. - Tony Webb has that house, sir, best gunsmith Bannerman - [Judge] Lives alone? - Well, he has a daughter, sir. Mighty fetchin' filly. - I'll see you later, Colonel. - I'll go with you, sir. Of course, Your Honor. - What are you gonna say? - I don't have to say anything. - I think you do. There's a right thing and a wrong thing. - Don't preach to me, Dad. - I'm only sayin' what you already know. There's right and there's wrong, and when you see the difference, you've just got to speak up. - That's all in books, - Tom won't ever marry - How do you know about that? - Oh, honey. (door knocking) Good morning, Judge. - Yes, sir. - Do you recognize this gun? - A fella like me handles so many guns for so many folks, it's kinda hard to say. - A fella like you sittin' here all day, includin' the shooting. - Come in, sir. Please stay. My daughter, Judge. I saw it. - Well, I saw it. I couldn't hear, though, I - Was Morrison armed? - That I can't say. - Did you see it? Miss Webb? - Well, no. No, not the first shot. I heard and came to the window - Did you see Morrison holding a gun? - Well, he was down in the weeds, he was already finished I'll tell you something else, Judge, I was gonna lie to you, was because Tom had promised to marry me. It isn't easy for a girl It's not like back east. The few men that are here, to the Bannermans like (door slamming) - Will you repeat what Everything quiet? - Everything except Tom Bannerman, and he's losing his voice. - I have a little business It won't take very long. - Be back before night? - Why? I haven't seen a Bannerman, a Kettering, or a Taylor all day. I think they're holdin' a pow wow. - Awful hot weather for argument. (water splashing) (whip cracking) - Run home, go on. Well, of all people. Oh, my horse left me, he - I'll take you back to the town. - Why aren't you back at - Nat Bell does all right. - Judge, you better take me home. - You can get a horse in town. - You're riding like this with a Bannerman snuggling up to you? Oh, Your Honor, the prosecutor will make you disqualify yourself. - You're staying for supper, I hope. - I don't think so. Please come in. - What's this? - The gathering of the clans. Come on, they won't bite you. - She brought him here, Amy Lee. If I had a son like her, - I don't think you've This is my uncle, Josiah Bannerman. - Don't tell him who I am, he has the sense to know who I am. Sit down. Have a drink, let's be friends. - I like to know the names What's he, a cousin? - [Amy Lee] Oh, - The Taylors, the the whole clan, and now - I certainly hope so, Judge. - I certainly hope so, Judge. Don't you know, talker. - Doesn't seem that Miss - Doesn't seem Miss Amy - I wish you wouldn't repeat whatever I say. Every time he opens his What have you got against my Tom? - Speaking as a private - You can forget that judge part. You ain't judgin' any Bannermans. - Well, then speaking I don't like it. - Well, that's straight out. What have you got against him as a judge? - Well, I'm sure the prosecutor This is an odd place to find - Barely and simply investigating I've always been a staunch believer in thorough and careful preparation. - Ah, he's a windbag. I can buy and sell men like him everyday. Anxious to get on in the Warm your chair before you're sat in it. - Now now, Mr. Bannerman. - Now you, I couldn't buy you, could I? - You haven't made me an offer yet. - I could make you some You know what I own around here. A man can't ride across it in two days. And all the people I got that counts is Amy Lee and that one boy. - No one else counts? - They do what I say, Where would they be if it wasn't for me? I took this land, I made it mine. And you know what I started with? With nothin'. I was a boy when I started, was layin' out here right a 15 year old boy with and an Indian arrow out of her back. Nobody lied to me. And I said right then this is mine, this whole piece of country's mine. My ma's blood's in it like it's in me. She give it to me, the land. And I got away, when I was growed, I come back and I took it. What's good here is good 'cause of me. If anything's bad, that's 'cause of me. And I'll fix it my way. You can't come in here, mister, and tell me how to run my land. Not with the law, not with soldiers. I got men can handle guns, too. - You've got a son who's - I'll whip him until he can't stand, but I won't let any other man whip him. - You'd better get him a good lawyer. - He won't need one. - He will at the trial. - He won't need one. - You heard Mr. Kettering. Amy Lee. - Excuse me. (dramatic music) - You've been away so long I - Maybe they will, they don't intend - Come sundown, I think - Not if we can run from it, I'm takin' the prisoner to Cottonwood. - With him? Judge, you won't get very far. - Far as an honest jury is far enough. (hooves clopping) (door knocking) How strong are you for - Well, we've been figuring things out. It's sure we won't be able - I don't want to live here, anyway. I've had enough of it. - Are you willing to go - When? - We wouldn't come back here? What about our things? I've got some curtains I I don't know why you had to everything was fine til you came along. - You do what you have to do. We'll wait for you on the Cottonwood Road about two miles out of town. - I'll try to talk the federal government into replacing your curtains. (mellow music) Quite a crowd tonight. - Sizeable, sir, sizeable. - I hope they're in town tomorrow so we can draw on 'em for a jury. - No Judge, twice that by tomorrow. - What about it? - As a poet says, Your Honor, there are determined men who act by night. - Thanks. - Thorne. I see you're carryin' You got sense enough to unless you're ready to use it. - I know. - You don't mind seein' blood? I do, Judge, I've been I can smell it right now I'd like to spend the rest of Why don't you sit down here, Judge, have a drink, and let's you and me talk this thing over - That would leave the - I didn't knock, either. - What did your horse do this time? - He's a mean animal, but he brought me anyway. - Close the door. - He may have. - What do I care about clerks? I cared more I might never see you again. Did it bother you, too? How could you walk away from me? Why did you leave the ranch? - I was angry. - I knew it was all a trick, - How could you tell? - You didn't have any dirt on you. - You looked me over? - Carefully. - Thanks for what you were thinking. - How did you know what I was thinking? - I could tell. - You're engaged to Arnold Hammer. - Not anymore. - Since you kissed me. - It isn't gonna work. - What won't work? - What others? Tom Bannerman, Kettering, Taylor. - Oh, all the Bannermans. Let Tom out of jail and the whole thing is over, better than over. Josiah thinks you're the best He says when you left that, what's the matter? - You're a Bannerman, all right. - What does that mean? - You'd stop at nothing (hand slapping) - Look there, whoops. Just a minute, where you goin'? Tell me, now where you goin'? - Who wants to know? - Old Bannerman, he wants to know. Listen, I'm supposed to tell him anybody that goes in and out of that jail. - Why did they pick you? - 'Cause they can depend on me. Look, because you wouldn't suspect me, you wouldn't want 'em that would suspect me, would ya? Why, that'd be a pretty goal. - Well now, look, why don't you and watch me in a nice, comfortable chair? - 'Cause I don't need a chair. - Maybe there's another jug in there. - I don't care. Hey, maybe there is. (relaxing music) - I've given that fool judge Go get Tom. And no gunplay. - [Sam] What? - You'd like to go on a If you kill that judge, just like him snoopin' And after him, another and another until they tramp down all the grass. We don't want him killed, we Go on. (suspenseful music) (glass shattering) - Tom, wake up. Tom, it's us. Hey, he's sick or drunk, - Ah, they wouldn't leave it around. What we need is a blacksmith. - [Sam] Might be somethin' (dramatic music) (hammer clanging) - Tom? - They took Tom away. All right boys, get your rifles. (hooves clopping) - [Nat] Should be around here someplace. Hold up! - Vince Webb? - What have they got to do with this? - Witnesses, they saw the shooting. - Well well, we're gettin' Maybe now we can pick up a fiddler and have us some weddin' music. - Leave her alone. How far do you think you'll get? - Cottonwood. - 47 miles. - I don't know about that. - Judge, I'm tired of ridin'. A man oughta walk once in a while. - Get back in that saddle or you'll come into Cottonwood across it. - Let's talk about that. - Judge, he looks to me like - He has all the earmarks. - You can't shoot him, that's no better than - Why don't you button your lip? (horses neighing) (dramatic music) - Listen. They're comin' right behind us. - Since there's gonna be I am a prisoner. (suspenseful music) (hooves thundering) - They're ahead of us, now. - You're worried, witness? - There's a cut through them hills. Ain't much good for night ridin', but it'll save us 30 miles. - Where'll it bring us out? - Down on the plain with - We'll take it. - I know that trail, we'll end (hooves thundering) - Doesn't appear to be a soul down there. - Used to be plenty of room - Thorne doesn't stay - You like him. - Didn't go by here. - What do you think, Sam? - Well, if he took the Taylor's likely to bring him in right now. - They're headed for Cottonwood, where we don't stand so high. If they haven't passed by here, reckon Bell knows about that - If he does, Thorne would take it. - Then we got him. Sam, I want every man in from the range. We're goin' into town, We're gonna tree this judge. We'll close up both ends and if he gets by us in there, we'll be waitin' for him on the plains. Go, take some boys and ride this road. You come with me. - I said come with me! - And I heard you. - This is real nice of you, Amy Lee, I didn't expect, well you know. - Don't expect anything, - I don't understand, we're alone. - All right, why don't we Amy Lee, I don't know what (sweeping music) - Oh, I don't go through How will I manage this horse? - He's right. - Man can't drive that Don't suppose no one will put a lovin' arm around this sweet, cuddly girl here. We gotta keep the witnesses warm. - Judge, let him ride I'll keep him from fallin'. - [Nat] Think he's looking for us. - If he is, he's sure gonna catch up. - Amy Lee, you best danged how'd you figure it? - What are they doing here? - Witnesses, he says. - I thought Tom had his brand on you. - Until we saw him kill Sid Morrison. - You turn real fast. - You might as well let him go. You can't make it to Cottonwood. - We can try. Josiah's at the other end. - I hope he'll be reasonable. Keep an eye on Miss Bannerman. You've come this far, why turn back? (sweeping music) (Tom laughing) Take the prisoner. - You believe the old - He'll be there. Bannermans take care of each - Is there any water? - The judge has a canteen, I'll get it for you, Miss Bannerman. - Get me out of this. - And see something's done - How'd they get into this? - Morrison saw me hankerin' after his wife and wasn't man enough to call me out. He ran and snitched to - You had to? - I'll give it to 'em. - Could I have some? - Sure, go ahead witness, I - I'll do without. (bright music) (horse neighing) (horse crashing) - Stay here with the horses. Get down, you take care of her. (dramatic music) - Steady, boy, steady. - Get off. He's no Bannerman, he's a killer. He pushed her father He was going to do it again, to him. - Keep your eye on him. (sweeping music) (romantic music) - What makes you so bound to do this? What's in it for you? - A man believes in a like your reason for - So you hurt or kill, this isn't for you. That was my reason. It'll cost you a lot - Looks like we've come to Cottonwood. (dramatic music) - Not yet. (hooves thundering) - Well, the old buckle. - I told you. you've got your heart set on, Judge. - Shall we back up in the - [Amy Lee] They're coming that way, too. - Stay on your horse. - Tie his feet. You're done. - I'll talk to you in the courtroom. (suspenseful music) I'm not lettin' him go. - Thought you were ridin' - I made another choice. - What's she doin' with my son? - Oh, witness, claims she - That's for a jury to decide. - Judge, I'm tryin' to be a peaceable man. - Then get out of my way. you're licked, licked. What are you trying to do, - Any man moves to help him, I'll shoot. What does that add up to? - He dies this way instead I care how he dies, Judge. Nobody comes to where I am and takes out a Bannerman - Even if he's guilty? - That's still my family and my business. - Call his hand. - I'm callin' ya, Judge. Shoot him or let him go. (somber music) You, get back to your job - Yes, Mr. Bannerman. Caroline, I'll get you home. - Is this the end of it? Then why did my father die? - How's about somebody cuttin' me loose? - You'll hang yourself. He's no good, he's a killer. He killed Vince Webb on the trail. - She's a liar. - I saw him do it. He never had a chance. - Is somebody going to cut me loose? - He's my son. If he hangs, I'll pull (dramatic music) (guns firing) (whip cracking) (guns firing) - That'll cost you a Bannerman. - Take a lot of reins, get to the town. (guns firing) - All right, that's enough. (somber music) I'm trustin' you to go easy on that boy. - He'll have a fair trial, no favors. - You better take Amy I set no table for them (group clamoring) (gavel banging) - Court is in session, Judge The people versus Thomas Bannerman. (triumphant music)