Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, intelligence you can't fake. What does it mean to be a highly intelligent person when we meet one, yet genuine intelligence explain. In fact, the definition of intelligence In the workplace, an intelligent person tackling complex problems, and analyzing the intelligence may involve clear communication and place a greater emphasis on learning As different as they seem, every one of these intelligence. According to many popular theories Multiple Intelligences, there are a wide variety that contribute to any measure of your have vastly different intellectual talents are considered more intelligent than most. our intellectual abilities into eight categories. cognition, behavior, or performance. According to one or more of these categories, which ultimately or interface with the world around you. called spatial intelligence, and it describes your extraordinary spatial intelligence may be adept at Unsurprisingly, many sharp spatial thinkers find Of course, spatial intelligence is just one of is only one of many psychologists who have tried person more competent or innovative than another. it can be equally tricky to For instance, many of the most brilliant people brilliance does not align with traditional or and pseudo-scientists gain worldwide acclaim, So, how do you know whether someone To separate the geniuses from the jesters, let's that you cannot fake, no matter how hard you try. Do you adapt well to new environments? Intelligent in the world around them. You may not always warning -- but you work well under pressure and Flexibility and spontaneity are two skills master. Anyone can prepare extensively but it takes a brilliant person to think 2. Outlandish Originality Highly intellectual people quickly so it doesn't take long before they're Not every idea they come up with is innovative devise the most outlandish ideas and to think outside the box separates the most 3. The Cognizant Recluse associated with people with high intelligence. self-centered and reclusive, but most are They unconsciously think about the needs and 4. Disorderly Experimentation surprisingly disorganized. Not only do they live and interests vary each day. To most people, Yet their disorganization yields The lives of brilliant people often revolve They're always asking questions, exploring those concepts fall flat 99% of the time. the most intelligent people tinker and that tinkering eventually leads them to 5. The Gift of Music be classically trained, but you have a knack for only appreciate good music when you hear it, but Without much thought, you can write You may create parodies of your favorite or sing around the house or in the shower. natural musical abilities are a In order to create or appreciate good music, like pattern recognition, metaphorical If you have an ear for music, there's a 6. Profound Predictions patterns in the world around them. Whether it's a they quickly and confidently recognize patterns While there are many other kinds of broadly applicable, incredibly powerful, 7. Thirst for Knowledge an insatiable thirst for knowledge. So, it's no Whether you are conversing with a you want to know and understand everything, 8. Uncanny Abilities have an uncanny ability to learn new concepts. intelligent people understand novel ideas like quickly unravel the world's most complicated If you're a hyper-intelligent person, you may Even if you're an amateur at the start, you're of the competition. On average, intellectual people have a strong expansive vocabulary, and they demonstrate clarity Anyone can talk around an idea or ramble until the to explain an idea clearly in just a few words. Has anyone ever told you that you have an the most common indicators of intelligence People with sharp memories can recall large They excel at memory tests like concentration, they've heard it. While most people can recall sharp and highly intelligent person to recall 11. Moments of Inspiration It doesn't take a genius to follow a plan and people are almost always derailed by moments of that shines a new light on your problems and leads a regimented routine because these moments 12. Diverse Expertise of information stored in your brain impacts your develop a large bank of mental knowledge, and What surprises many people about avid of their expertise. It doesn't matter whom They always have something interesting to say. subject. But the most competent people can 13. A Source of Wisdom If people seek out your opinion, it's because They trust your judgment, and they If you're a hyper-intelligent person, you may give emotionally intelligent individual whose natural Maybe your ability to shift perspectives and identify weaknesses or streamline their ideas. people around you because you have intellectual 14. Enhanced Perception eyes and ears closed. We don't look at or listen strange or remarkable changes in our environments. their eyes and ears open. They look and interesting things may be happening 15. The Bigger Picture Do you consider yourself a decisive person? intelligent decisions because they excel at identify patterns and synthesize knowledge gives More importantly, intelligent people know At the end of the day, failing is just Thank you for watching TopThink and be sure is on the way.