Korea's history is that of a small nation countries that surround it. Historically it Union, Japan, and the USA. Korea has never been the centre of conflict between larger will talk about modern-day North and South very similar, developed differently all the and economics, propaganda and social issues, K-pop. North Korea and South Korea. But before we we need to talk about how they were created. there is a good reason for this specific date: was dominated by China. China had a large and technology, the most efficient education used their dominance to colonize and conquer tributary states: Japan, Cambodia, Malaysia, course, Korea. All and more paid tribute to of years in its history, no other country economic, and political power of China... just a tributary state: it had adopted the of Confucianism, and closed itself off from had adopted the Chinese way of doing things at it than the Chinese themselves. was that China was in decline. A slow decline. hundreds of years. Because around 1500 the contact with Chinese tributary states. This But the Portugese established colonies, taking by other Europeans such as the Dutch, the establishing colonies in Chinese tributary a tributary state. Until in the year 1839 was attacked by European powers. But there throughout all of this: Korea. While Sri Lanka and Chinese ports by various European powers... from France, the United States, and Japan. puppet. when the empire upon which the fire nation MARCH} The First Sino-Japanese War was a war Empire of Japan in 1894 and 1895. Just 40 in that it shut itself off from the rest of to open up. Japan had been modernising its and a modern army. This modern Japanese army power in East Asia shifted from China to Japan. For over 1000 years of being a vassal state Not because it sought independence, but because And this is why 1895 is such an important year that Korea stopped being a Chinese tributary and became an independent Korea. And this which were far more powerful than itself. the various powers to secure its own survival. powerful countries remains true today: the Japan, the United States... These are or were all of them have a stake in the Korean nations. to the west was a declining China, to the greater influence in East Asia, and to the itself was surrounded by more powerful and seeking ways to secure its independence from closer and closer to Japan. Each of these and far more powerful than Korea. So what [SHORT INDEPENDENCE] Well, Korea decided to model on how to do so: Korea reorganized its training and weapons from Russia; it improved colleges and universities. In fact, many of in the time of this Korean Empire; the government new types of machines, such as low-cost silk could outcompete high-cost manufacturing abroad silk to rich nations; it built new infrastructure telephone lines, and a powergrid; and its even royalty donning the clothes of western it even changed its name. For centuries the actually called Joseon... But was renamed Korea had moved away from China and was now FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE} Hoping that Russia but also to help secure Korean independence... when it had just gained independence from had been discussing invading Korea for decades. would invade Korea, it just hadn't decided that Korea was an inferior nation which failed by the superior Japanese nation... This point viewed African and Asian nations at the time. control over Korea in order to gain more influence 1904, which Japan won. {ABRUPTLY STOP FROM to become a protectorate of Japan in 1905. and in 1910 Korea officially became a colony {FADE OUT. HAVE A PAUSE FOR A BIT AND THEN YOUR PLAYLIST} where China lost its position as the dominant of Humiliation" in China... but while China subdued: Japan treated Korea as its colony. the Koreans by banning the Korean language, language, customs, and traditions. For example, names to Japanese names. Korean labour was built to transport those resources to Japan, used for Japanese consumption and expanding of East Asia. While various aspects improved factories were built, and infrastructure improved... so brutal they would eventually be considered example of the brutality was the establishment to their offices with the promise of better turned into slaves and sent across the Japanese used by Japanese men as they pleased... {HAVE The effect the Japanese occupation on Korea and had to end its occupation of Korea, that and technical expertise to run their own country. exclusively used Japanese citizens to administer no Koreans left anymore who had experience [INDEPENDENT KOREA] And so now it's 1945 they were leaving, the Soviet army was arriving. by larger, more powerful nations: This time America. Because the cold war was beginning were ideology and proxy wars, with the Soviet communism and the USA and its allies turning over Korea for its strategic position in East would occupy all of Korea. So the USA tasked on how to split Korea between the Soviets and without consulting experts on Korea, they that a line on that map, called the 38th parallel, each side would have approximately half the the Soviets immediately accepted the division, sharing Korea along the exact same line with what they wanted all along. And so, after peninsula, the country was torn apart between meant to last 5 years, after which Korea would Korean state, similar to how Austria was split immediate independence, but their voices were The USSR and USA met several times to discuss Lyuh Woon-hyung as the leader of a unified Soviets proposed both sides withdraw and let this too was rejected by the USA. So the US which declared that both sides should withdraw boycotted this resolution, arguing that the time went on the two nations diverged and a different national government in the Korean [NK - USSR OCCUPATION] In the North, a provisional under the leadership of Kim Il-Sung. He was for his close ties with the Soviet government. to note that there is very little information present, the less information we have. I will there are any North Koreans in the audience then please correct me... Or add information North Korea faced many of the same issues by the powerful Soviet Union to the north North Korea therefore needed to become a useful adopted Soviet-style governance: it instituted citizens, Korean collaborators, and landlords government took control over many businesses, As a result of these reforms, the elites lost Japanese, and elites fled south. removed domestic opposition and implemented has a single political party; the Workers' the nation's absolute ruler. And to keep was formed around him and his dynasty. United States took over the governance of actually was a Korea government-in-exile living meet with the US occupation force... but the refused to recognize them, and on December The US occupation was met with resistance the US presence in their country. But the the power of the US military, resulting in Over time an anti-communist man named Syngman being the first president of the now-outlawed a pro-Korean lobbyist in the USA, making him After it became clear that Korean Unification elections in South Korea to be held in 1948. realized that their US occupiers had abandoned protests and rebellions rose up across South South Korean and US militaries. And again, of a unified Korea. But eventually South Koreans Rhee won the election. 3 Months later on August to the South Korean government, which officially 3 Weeks later North Korea did the same and People's Republic of Korea". And so, in from the Korean peninsula and for the first [KOREAN WAR - PRELUDE] But North Korea faced it hasn't resolved to this very day: the soil is not very suitable for agriculture. most farms in the south where the soil was in the North where there were more natural The second issue is that of a competitor backed world. You see, if South Korea were to prosper that South Korean capitalism was far more could result in civil unrest and possible And they weren't wrong to think that, because and West Germany in the 1990s. issue? Well, North Korea did what previous more powerful countries... In North Korea's and not long afterwards, mainland China became 2 communist nations it could rely on for help. to invade South Korea. This would remove their gain them the fertile land they needed to [KOREAN WAR] And so, on June 25th 1950, the about the Korean War because I am a History North Korea was at first successful, then troops to defend the south, they were so successful Chinese border, at which point China sent Korea, after which the borders became similar until 1953 the two sides kept fighting, but 1953, the Soviet government changed leadership 3 years, the Korean War came to an end with to rely on their allies for survival. And Won't. Be. United. Zone was established. And to prevent anyone video, the DMZ's ecosystem is a fascinating places for humans to be, this has basically in history. This zone includes many ecosystems many migratory birds resting here. In fact, such as the endangered white-naped crane and species of fish, Asiatic Black Bears, lynxes, back to depression. on other communist nations for support, such in order to rebuild North Korea after the "juche". And if you don't know what Euro-centric education. "Juche" is an So, for example, instead of importing food it themselves... along with as many goods be dependent on other nations for its economy. adopted fit well with this policy. Because economy. So instead of "the people owning who owned 'the means of production' from position in the economy, the North Korean of "juche". But this type of economic While you could try to make everything you to focus on a few things you are really good for things you need or want. For example, which it could trade for food, something which But this is where we need to remember Korean a thousand years, but when China was defeated on the Russian Empire, who was defeated in North Korea learned that relying on other world. With this historical context, it is the outside world and began the process of [SK - GEOPOLITICS] And this policy of adopting Korean government had aligned itself with, under the Chinese sphere of influence, it that North Korea aligned itself with the Soviet {PLAY SOVIET UNION ANTHEM DURING THIS PREVIOUS But what about South Korea? What many people used to be a lot like North Korea: it's permission; rampant poverty; large-scale corruption; financial aid; and while officially there And in the years following the Korean War, its own power by suppressing opposition. But to rigged elections and corruption. After president resigned, and a military coup took was headed by a man named Park Guen-Hye. But one side the country was very corrupt while These issues were made worse by North Korea. best Korea, then the people might demand a leadership. And so, South Korea needed to Korean government was better than living under new government wanted to show this to the country than North Korea. economy relied a lot on exporting resources as tungsten, fish, and cheap garments. But what policies could South Korea implement one can find plenty of examples of poor countries in just a few decades. One could look at Vietnam, South Korea itself... all countries which in 1960, there was only a single country which to a rich country in just a few decades: Japan. growing at around 10% per year and even before economy in just a few decades. And so South of its larger and more powerful neighbour: as North Korea would become more communist become more state capitalist than the Japanese. case of Korea, it used something called 'indicative sets broad targets for a capitalist economy in certain industries, export, infrastructure private businesses to achieve this goal. South which would become the mascots of the South promoted family-owned businesses. This is advantage: longevity. Because if your business don't care if the business still exists profit. But if you know your children and you retire, then you want to make sure that time. In fact, this system of promoting family-owned which literally means "rich family". these mascot companies would succeed? Well, easier to get permits, ban foreign competitors provide them with VAST amounts of money to in South Korea were owned by the government savings in the country. It then used these But in exchange for practically endless investments, mascot companies in which industries they And Korea was quite forceful in its approach: the LG Group from going into the textile industry cables. Eventually resulting in LG's world-famous government pressured Hyundai Group to start the president threatened them with bankruptcy. of the biggest in the world; And in the 60s but South Korea didn't produce iron ore steel-making. Being capitalist, it couldn't and had to import these materials all the therefore thought that this was a silly idea except for 1. After WW2, Japan had to pay for 35 years of colonization. South Korea began production in 1973. It became so successful producers in the world. government would often threaten to cut off secret police to uhhh... "convince" the Over time these Chaebol family companies would a famous example, the South Korean company televisions, biotechnology, batteries and your very first picture was taken with a Samsung But making family companies wealthy wouldn't South Korean citizen wealthy. And so the government sure that the profits earned by large corporations For example, it subsidised fertilizer to improve rural farmers, large-scale public housing new schools and universities, emphasising not done to help the average South Korean living conditions for the people would legitimize the eyes of those people whose lives it improved, bring about a communist revolution in South Throughout South Korea's history the government but a lot of its plans were seen as impractical, South Korean government did it anyway and would have ever considered possible. This that the average income per person grew around put this into perspective, at the same time per year on average. This extraordinary economic on the Han River or the South Korean Miracle. the preferred Korea to live in. But back in for Korean hegemony... But why was this the [NK - ECONOMY] The North Korean economy after of its southern counterpart. This is in large it needed within its own borders to create tungsten, anthracite, and gold; it had a large into goods; and it had plenty of coal and factories and its people. more and more intertwined with the military, such as infrastructure, construction, and the military at 17 and almost all men join in life, or out of a sense of duty to the synonymous in North Korean society, where and the people'. This is in large part because Japan to invade China twice, it had been used it was occupied by foreign powers twice. And where nearly all men received military training of weapons it could use for offense and defence. have millions of soldiers able to fight a Korea became too costly and their enemy would in many ways shaped by its history of foreign repeat itself. a vast propaganda program which permeates keep its people in line and promote national people that no matter how mundane your job the country and that therefore the country way to prevent the people from rebelling by to motivate workers to be as productive as while North Korea lacks the soil to produce food from abroad, often leading to famine, people of North Korea. nation. Let's turn on the North Korean Anthem ahhhh. Beautiful. Propaganda vans equipped propaganda are present at construction sites, While I would like to give a more chronological isn't that much information on it. In fact, on the subject of North Korean artistic expressions, slogans are 'My Country is the Best', and 'Beautiful Land of Korea'. You can Korea and many forms of North Korean art, Focusing on the heroism of young people and nation. If you want to see more modern forms right here on YouTube. There is a channel say for sure that it's a 100% propaganda be a playlist with various North Korean culture as Morabong, a popular North Korean band, military, science, and technology. Now, it any different from anybody else. Afterall, their children... just like everywhere else bread will rise in North Korea just as a baker would. and outdoor barbeques in parks, singing, pastime activities in North Korea. lacking behind that of the rest of the world... and 70s North Korea refurbished its energy its military, and tried mechanizing its agricultural However, North Korea didn't have the money the money. So much in fact that by 1975 it to never repay their loans... Afterall, it's to repay its debt. But this left the country Korea anymore to lend them any money. And And North Korea's isolation gave it one countries didn't have at the time: secrecy. is thought that around the 1980s North Korea their customers included Iran, Syria, Iraq, [NK - POST-SOVIET] Throughout this time North Union. But in 1991 the USSR collapsed. As of foreign aid which it used to get from the Furthermore, China no longer had to worry state and also reduced the amount of funding Korea once again ran out of money. Not only Il-Sung, died and was replaced by his son, shift for North Korea: When Kim Jong-Il ascended with a struggling economy and facing a famine. leadership adopted a new policy, the Songun of equal priority. In fact, Songun literally FOR EVERYONE' E SOUND EFFECT}. In it the Korean nation. To secure national independence, And when North Korea had problems generating helped build dozens of new dams along the power accounts for 2/3 of North Korea's the 'Juche' policy of self-determination Because North Korean soil isn't well-suited the country's policy of isolationism by other countries. For example, North Korea in return for arranging the construction of contractors in 1994, halted testing of a long-range rhetoric, stopped incursions into the DMZ, in 2000 to discuss taking steps towards unification. in Europe and Asia were improving... But even it did not receive the financial and economic were unwilling to invest in a nation whose to provide more than food aid, and businesses to do businesses in. This was probably far shortly after, when North Korea became more and the USA's president called North Korea pulled out of the Nuclear Non-proliferation for self defence. Afterall, if you have a tend to be a lot less willing to invade you. tests and it is widely thought that as of bombs. And so North Korea returned back to there was little to gain from the outside civil unrest similar to what happened in the North Korea might look like a nation which ties again. But the North Korean perspective South Korea, Japan, Europe, or the United to become part of a unified Korea led by the Germany was dominated by West Germany. North a starving population with the few resources up like the Soviet Union, who liberalised is now a shell of its former self: With the Soviet territories towards the west, while politics of Central Asia which had been in In a world where nuclear weapons deter invasion, power is exercised from a strong economy, who might upset the delicate balance its leaders actor on the world stage like it is often is consumed by fear. Fear of its own people install a new government, and fear of its South's rule. A south that was becoming [SK - POST-SOVIET] But while North Korea was collapse, South Korea was facing issues of held elections, these were often not fair Park Chung-hee decreased, his methods became martial law, modified the constitution to it nearly impossible for anybody else to run re-elected, as nobody else was allowed to When the president wanted to use ever more he was assassinated by his own security forces took over the South Korean government and to secure its own power: Universities were of the press further curtailed. But this led Korea that was supported by the workers. This were sent in to take over from the police... their own citizens. With support from political about a new constitution for the country and With this new constitution the national assembly and the supreme court could appoint its own wasn't enough for most people and protesters the streets periodically. These protests were was selected to become president, he was so and ran on a platform promising more freedoms government adopted a new constitution, giving vote directly for the president instead of Korean democracy had become so successful corruption, thousands of political prisoners pro-democracy protesters were removed. a democracy, yet you live in a country ruled being eroded, or a country still struggling no better example to follow than South Korea. death after death the South Korean people democracy. The process from dictatorship to Koreans still protest to preserve the democracy never stopped protesting, never stopped demanding fighting for their right to vote. If you need then I highly recommend you look at South Throughout the 90s South Korean citizens gained were lifted. In addition, women campaigned property ownership rights, the right to register system that took effect in 2008, equal divorse in child-custody cases. Because in 1997 the Asian Financial Crisis in the large family-owned corporations in compete on the world stage... but by 1997 of those loans weren't turning a profit failures across South Korea. As a result, had come to an end. South Korea had become no longer able to use advanced technology already had implemented all of the most advanced At the same time, a large corruption scandal for doing business in the country. And so of restructuring its economy: South Korea on the Japanese model, to neo-liberal capitalism, Korea became more capitalist than the USA the USA on the virtues of free trade and shames markets. example, before if you wanted to open a factory permits or bribe officials to get permission. a business was made easier. Corporations had corporate governance, and debt stabilization the South Korean government also reduced its chaebols, the family-run corporations. But less with corporations, corporations started In 1988 president of Hyundai Heavy Industries, national assembly of South Korea. This was joining the national assembly with an ever And over time the corporations have gained Part of this has to do with the fact that and powerful individuals to join national and wealth the chaebols have in South Korea. these companies are: Samsung alone accounts when President Lee Myung-Bak took office, evasion such as Samsung Group chairman Lee of Hyundai, Kim Seung-Youn of Hanwha, and people and their businesses had become more which bribed politicians to give them large The list of corruption scandals in South Korea involving the president in 2016 wasn't unique... scandal every few years where high-ranking elections, illegal surveillance, and much And even if these companies wanted to completely size of these organisations means that any economy. While the modern-day United States South Korea's companies are far larger in of the United States and therefore wield far the Koreans are better at the system than system. And South Korea will have to deal have on their society going into the future. One which is famous for its cutting-edge design, But it is also famous for something else: [K-POP] And the position K-pop holds in South is more than just music. K-pop is a weapon: cultivated by the government to promote South Asian Financial Crisis in the 90s, the South levels to that of other developed economies. of product it could export to the world. And Up until the 80s, censorship was common in two broadcast networks which controlled what as part of the democratisation of the country, of music came flooding in from abroad: Rock you look up the famous South Korean media were founded shortly after the censorship at all these new forms of Korean media and to the rest of the world. And it is easy to billions every year. But it was about more improve its image to the rest of the world. South Korea with the Asian Financial Crisis, the Korean War, and poverty. But South Korea a prosperous country, a free country. A country world. In short, South Korea is trying to And if you want to SELL to the outside world, Afterall, the first rule of marketing is 'know weren't allowed to travel abroad freely... the government finally lifted the travel ban. become richer and richer since the 1960s, particular, they traveled to Europe and North they went as students to study, and they went a few years many of those young South Koreans in western societies came back to South Korea. doing business, new forms of innovation, and did those young people do with their new experiences, many of them created a new type of Korean videogames. that became popular abroad were Korean dramas... the South Korean market but soon spread to and Taiwan, where it gained popularity in similar to South Korea and so East Asian audiences traditional elements. An example of such a gentleman". This is a stereotype of a man blending the values of altruism and self-autonomy the form of rulers, husbands, and elder brothers. of the myriad of hollywood movies in your is closer to your own culture, which you can values. to display Korean culture, conducted PR campaigns the entertainment businesses by making it culture spreading across the world is known Korean Wave was carefully engineered by the a popularity for Korean culture, then people people will buy other Korean products such to a favourable impression of South Korea. for the first time, you might recognize some first saw gangnam style in 2012, I started Korean cosmetics in 2014, and when I had a view of South Korea that I actively asked even making a video about Korea, perpetuating are becoming more and more popular abroad: students, and more people visiting South Korea. K-dramas, to K-cuisine was not a fluke. It Korean culture across the world for the benefit [K-POP] And K-pop was used as a method to South Korean culture. It started with a band the song "I know" where US pop music was and 98 three large studios were founded to groups: SM Entertainment (no.. not the fun The first of these custom-made idol groups five singers and dancers whom the producers see from a modern pop group. And this evolved high-quality performance such as dancing, line studio production which makes regular has remained highly segregated, where bands Where male groups cover a wide range of topics themes: the shy school girl singing about male figure to fulfill their fantasies, and [NK - MODERN] And this media has even penetrated life, so often portrayed in South Korean TV, North Korean refugees to flee their country. South Korean media as a dangerous threat to foreign media is a serious crime. Being caught crime... yet evenso, many North Koreans watch and keeping an eye out for inspectors to not that some weddings have two parts: one with ceremony incorporating rituals borrowed from As methods of storing digital information DVD to USB, it has become easier to smuggle media becomes increasingly more widespread. power plants, power outages are still common, media. But luckily for North Koreans, the estimated that today around 55% of all North power. for most average North Koreans has improved. And under his leadership the country has reformed always been a prominent black market in North of government oversight. But in the 2010s, more of such activities. For example, while to the state, more recently farmers are allowed an open market where they are allowed to set productivity because if you can increase the you are incentivised to find new ways to produce And the North Korean government has also become the 21st century. For example, In 1983, its in Myanmar, killing several cabinet members. But such actions have stopped. The regime sanctions imposed against the country. Starting European union's in 2000s, to most countries never traded much with the outside world, to sell the vast natural resources and cheap North Korea do in response to all these sanctions? does when they face sanctions: they avoid the fears of China. Particularly the fear that millions of North Korean refugees might it has been building will fall in the hands to hold China hostage by threatening to blow might unify with South Korea and become a trading with North Korea despite officially keeps trading with the rest of the world through many Chinese businesses will gladly buy North in China' label, and then sell it to the of you watching are probably wearing clothes North Korea had to once again attach itself This time, the People's Republic of China. [EDUCATION] And with all this talk about hydroelectric it would be prudent to look at the education been an important part of North Korean society. poor, its people are better educated than education for all children up to the age of Koreans are trained as engineers, nuclear It is therefore wrong for people to assume people who don't know what's going on In fact, many North Koreans often listen or and work in China, and many North Koreans even though the country is very isolated from note that these people are no different than politicians tell us, so can they see through be wrong of us to assume that they are somehow [OUTRO] And so we arrive in 2020, the year to an end for now. And while this video only Korea and South Korea, there are many more So when someone comments about how I did not as, "re-education camps", various presidential elites in South Korea... Then they are probably in a short video like this. People can spend new things. So if you were thinking I skipped below and teach us more about the Korean peninsula. the subjects of my videos. subscribe, and hit the notification bell. and you can vote on the video after that in from History Scope, thank you for watching