[offbeat uplifting music] - Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a Professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we're talking all about fasting. And anytime we're talking about fasting, we are also talking about eating, because we all need to We're going to talk about how fasting and when we eat influences a large range of aspects of our health and wellbeing, So, well, nowadays, most people are familiar with also sometimes called I think most people how that process works. It's sort of obvious that aka time-restricted feeding, involves eating at certain or maybe even not eating for But, if you think about it, And therefore, because people almost everybody is employing some form of intermittent fasting or What we're going to talk about today is how particular schedules can impact our health in different ways. And when I say different ways, I mean, we're going to talk about aka time-restricted feeding, fat loss in particular, muscle maintenance, and such as gut health and the epigenome, inflammation, and healing from sickness, mood, and lifespan. So we're going to cover a I promise to make it regardless of whether or not you have a background in biology and I'm also going to talk In fact, I'm going to discuss a number of tools during today's episode that actually make it such that you don't have to or fasting schedule, same thing if you think about it, in any absolutely strict regimented way, meaning if you were to only of each day, most of the time, but then occasionally eat of the day, in theory, that could detrimental health effects. And yet, there are things that you can do to attenuate those negative effects. In fact, there are things that that can make it as if And so we'll discuss what those tools are. And in many cases, for sake and performance, making the body think that actually be quite beneficial. So today, we're going to cover mechanism and we're going to cover tools. Before we do that, I want to highlight a particular recently, because it as we wade into the This is a study that was published in the journal Cell Metabolism: excellent journal. And the title of the paper as a Predictor of Mortality: And I'll explain what part means in a moment. But the basic takeaway of this study, and I should mention that the first author of the PALLIYAGURU, guru, Palliyaguru, et al. The basic finding of the higher blood glucose is And in fact, if you look at blood glucose, resting blood glucose across the lifespan, what you find is as people age, resting blood glucose goes up. Now, this is very interesting, because for a long time it was thought that metabolism actually And to some extent, that's true, but the reductions in metabolism are not nearly as robust that they were across the lifespan. However, unless there's something done to mitigate the increase with the aging, almost everybody experiences a gradual, but regular increase in that predicts mortality. Now, the title, as I mentioned, is &quot;Fasting Blood Glucose Lost in Translation&quot;. And the reason that they in the title is that what I just told you, that increases in resting blood glucose predict mortality, or is true for human beings and for non-human primates, monkeys. But the opposite is true in mice. And so I thought it was important to use this study as an example of where it studies in mice often, but not always, translate to humans and to non-human primates. So today, I'm going to be careful to distinguish when a study was performed in mice versus in humans, because it seems that at blood glucose and other aspects of diet as they relate to health and wellbeing, whether or not a study or in humans can be very important. In this case, the results were directly to one another. In other words, in mice, resting blood glucose went down, and was associated with mortality. So lower blood glucose Whereas in humans, higher resting blood glucose And obviously, what we're mostly interested in is health and wellbeing of ourselves, of humans. I'm sure there are some people concerned about the health which you could imagine a few rare contexts but obviously most of us are So I'll be sure to emphasize in humans versus in mice. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching It is, however, part of my desire and to consumer information about science and science-related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is ROKA. ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime and how we see, and ROKA, which is a company developed by two all-American swimmers from Stanford has developed eyeglasses and sunglasses that take into and they've produced an That product involves glasses that, first of all, are very lightweight. Second of all, can be worn They really are performance So whether or not you're sweating or running around, whether or not you're working, cycling, et cetera, you can wear them for The nice thing is they also So unlike a lot of other performance sunglasses and eyeglasses out there that can make people look more or less like and sunglasses look great, whether or not you're wearing or whether or not you're headed out for a run or a cycle or As I mentioned before, They don't slip off. And that's true, regardless of what activity If you'd like to try ROKA that's ROKA.com and to save 20% off your first order. Today's podcast is also brought to us by InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done, for the simple reason that are occurring in your body that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be assessed from a quality blood test. And nowadays, with the you can also assess your genome and how that's impacting your immediate and long-term health. The problem with a lot is you get information back, but you don't know what to And InsideTracker has solved that problem. They have a very easy to use dashboard so that when you get your results back, it will tell you, for instance, if your levels of a or hormone are too high or too low, what you can do, what you can take, how you can change your nutrition in order to adjust those levels and get them where you want them to be. This is tremendously useful and takes all the guesswork out of what to do with biomarker information. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of InsideTracker's plans, just use the code HUBERMAN at checkout. Today's episode is brought Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are tailored to your unique sleep needs, and in doing so, provide I started sleeping on a Helix mattress about a year or so ago, and it is the best sleep If you go to the Helix site, you take a brief two minute quiz, and that quiz asks you questions such as, do you tend to sleep on your stomach, your side, or your back? Do you tend to run hot Maybe you don't know, and they match you to that's ideal for your sleep needs. In my case, I matched to I've been sleeping on a Dusk it's absolutely terrific. Best sleep I've ever had. It's really key to get a mattress If you're interested in you can go to HelixSleep.com, and they'll match you to a And you'll get up to $200 off and you'll get two free pillows. If you're interested in Helix Sleep, you can go to HelixSleep.com/huberman, and you get up to $200 off your mattress, and two free pillows. I'd like to point you that's also zero cost and This is an event that was recorded. The event was held by Logitech, and I was fortunate enough And the entire event to be a more effective learner and teacher using the modern So at the link in the you can go to what was called And there, I gave a seminar describing the modern the nervous system's ability to change in response to experience. I focused mainly on human studies and how different structures and tools that one can implement in the classroom and outside of the classroom can lead to longer lasting learning of mathematical skills, all based on quality So if you'd like to check that out, you can head to that link. You'll also see an example of in a music classroom of a Ben Edie, who's a teacher out in Pasadena, who has applied these tools, at least to my knowledge, Of course, all the tools that are there are listed out in what I call a and all those tools can be applied to learning and teaching in So check it out. It's in the caption to and it will remain there, it's up on YouTube and Okay, so let's talk health and performance. And I want to just establish so that we're all on the same page. First of all, rather than talk about fasting I'm largely going to talk but please understand that is just one side of the coin that is a two-sided coin that includes fasting on the one hand, not eating, and time restricted I may occasionally say fasting, but because fasting and biological conditions in the body, time-restricted feeding is the term that I will use to describe the overall plan of as it's called to a particular or in some cases two particular Because as you'll soon learn, there are aspects of aka fasting, that involve or eating one way for five days and then fasting for So I'll be very precise about But for the time being, I'm going to refer to as a way to put an umbrella Second of all, I am going to emphasize a If you've listened to this podcast before, you know that I always begin I do describe tools of how to but I wholeheartedly believe and understanding how these processes work gives you tremendous flexibility and understanding, and control over the processes of your mental and physical health. Whereas if I were to just list off a menu of things to do and not but those will not give you the kind of understanding that would allow you to navigate through life, through travel, through dinners out, through whether or not you're one age et cetera, I'm giving you mechanisms so that you can gain more in your brain and body. Everything's timestamped, so if you want to jump to the to do's, you can certainly do that, but I encourage you to hang in I will make it all very clear because if you understand mechanism, you are in a true place over your biology. If ever there was a topic especially on the internet, it is that of diet and nutrition. So I'm wading into this anticipation of all the but but but this and but but but that, and wait, but this showed that. Here's the deal, we need to precisely define what it is that we're talking about when we talk about nutrition. I'm going to give you an example of a study that was 2018, by a colleague of mine at Stanford, Chris Gardner, he's a terrific professor of nutrition and has done a lot of important studies on different aspects of health. This is a large-scale study. It was published in JAMA, the Journal of the American one of the very top tier and certainly for a paper on nutrition to show up there meant that it had to meet an exceedingly high standard. This paper, where Chris it's Gardner et al, 2018 JAMA, looked at weight loss particular diet versus And this was a 12 month weight loss study. So it was focused although they looked at some And the basic conclusion of the study was that there was no significant difference in weight change between low fat diet versus a healthy, low carbohydrate diet with significantly more dietary fats in them. This caused a lot of ripples in the world of nutrition and certainly in the general population, because anyone that understands diet and nutrition would there are all sorts of one type of diet, say low versus a higher And indeed there are. This study was focused specifically on fat loss and on weight loss. So as we discuss time restricted feeding, we need to be very precise about what are the effects and of eating in particular ways at particular times, we are whether or not the study was in athletes, in men, in women, or both, but the study from Gardner and colleagues is a beautiful study, and really emphasizes that if one's main goal is then it really does not that the number of calories burned is higher than the number However, anyone out there who understands a little bit of biology, or a lot of biology will agree that there are many factors that impact that calories Some of those are obvious. So for instance, amount of exercise, type of how much energy one I've talked before on this podcast about NEIT, Non Exercise where if people bounce around they can burn anywhere from So their quote-unquote is actually much higher simply because they're fidgeters, whereas people who tend have a lower basal There's a great science to support this. Metabolic factors and hormones are also very important. Hormones, such as thyroid hormone and insulin and growth hormone, and the sex story to hormones, those levels will also the calories out, the of the calories in, calories out equation. So if out there on the internet or in listening to a particular podcast or speaker, somebody says, this is the ideal diet, or calories in, calories out does not matter, or calories in calories out is the only thing that matters. I think it's very important to understand that there are some foundational truths, such as calories in, calories out, but that of course, hormone factors and the context in which a given diet regimen is taking place are exceedingly important. A good example of this would be puberty at that time in life, sex steroid hormones in the body as our growth And much of caloric intake is directed towards protein synthesis, towards the production of muscle and bone and other tissues of the body. And that's because of changes in hormones that we call puberty. So, there's no way that we can drill into every aspect of a given feeding plan or feeding schedule that would allow us to tap into every aspect of the list that I read out before weight loss, fat loss, muscle organ, genome, epigenome, inflammation, exercise, But today, we're going to be very precise about how time restricted feeding, it's very clear from both animal studies and human studies can have a very powerful on everything from weight loss and fat loss to various health parameters. This is a beautiful literature that's emerged mostly in And as we march into this literature, what you'll see is that there actually is a perfect diet for you on a given day. And that perfect diet for you on a given day is contextual, meaning it depends on and what you're going to do tomorrow. So there is a perfect diet for you. And today, I'm going to arm you with the mechanisms and understanding that will allow you to define what that perfect diet is and will allow you to eat on a schedule and to eat the things that are going to best serve your goals. So let's talk about eating and let's talk about and what happens when you fast. I did an entire episode on eating and metabolism, and that impact appetite. We don't have time to go although you're welcome to but we can briefly describe that are set in the body when we eat and when we don't eat. The key word here is conditions. If I can emphasize anything and when you eat it set and those conditions can or very bad for you, In fact, when you eat is as I'll repeat that, when you eat is as important as what you eat, at least as it relates in particular, liver Some simple rules about eating. First of all, when you eat, your blood sugar, will go up. Also, insulin levels will go up. Insulin is a hormone that's involved in mobilizing glucose How much your glucose and insulin go up depends on what you eat In general, simple sugars, but also sucrose and glucose, and simple sugars will raise your insulin and blood glucose more Things like grains, and breads, and grains, and breads, and your blood glucose more like lettuce, and broccoli, Protein has a somewhat moderate or modest impact on insulin and glucose, and fat has the lowest impact on raising your blood So what you eat will in blood glucose and insulin takes place. And there are a number of factors that are related to your individual health that will also dictate how steep and how high that rise in For the time being, I'm leaving out people who have type one diabetes. These are people that don't and type two diabetes is lack of sensitivity to insulin, which leads to high blood glucose. But, when you eat, blood glucose goes up blood glucose and insulin go down. The longer it's been since your last meal, the lower, typically, your blood glucose and insulin will be. And the higher, things like glucagon being a hormone when you are in a fasted state It's involved in mobilizing from the body, including fat also using carbohydrates, and potentially even using So, that's kind of a fire hose of information about what happens when you eat and don't eat, but just think of it this way, blood sugar and insulin go up when you eat, they go down when you don't eat, and other hormones go So there are hormones associated and there are hormones associated with the eating and Now, the most important thing to understand is that, this is a process that takes time. So insulin and glucose go up when we eat, and it takes some period of time for them to go down, even if we stop eating, they will remain up for and then go back down, it takes time. This is very important, because if you look at on fasting, on time-restricted feeding, it's absolutely clear not just the weight loss benefits, but that the health benefits from time-restricted feeding, occur because certain conditions are met in the brain and body And that gives us an anchor from which to view what eating is in terms of how it sets And if that sounds overly this is the simplest and best way to think or any eating plan. So I think it's fair to say there are a few landmark as really strong anchors for of what to eat and what not to eat and when to eat, depending on our goals. The Gardner study that I mentioned earlier is one such study, in that it says if your it really does not matter provided that you consume a However, I want to emphasize again, that sets aside issues of adherence, meaning how easy or hard it Some people find it much easier to follow a high fat, Some people fall follow a different diet because it's much easier for them to follow. And some people are concerned with mental performance So that study doesn't what it says is that what you consume is less important than the at least for sake of weight loss, not necessarily for sake of health. Now, the study that I'm going to refer to next is what I would consider the second major pillar This is a truly landmark study that was carried out by Satchin Panda, who is a professor at the Salk Institute of Biological Studies in San Diego, an absolutely phenomenal institution, and an absolutely phenomenal researcher. I've known Satchin for a number of years, and I want to emphasize on intermittent fasting and time restricted feeding can largely be attributed to Satchin and the work that he's done. There are others involved too, of course. And of course, time-restricted feeding and fasting has a rich history if not thousands of years and religions, but the science of time-restricted be attributed to the incredible And I'm grateful to consider and we consulted at length in I also hope to have him on The landmark paper that was published in 2012. This was a paper in for studies in humans that came later. And the title of this paper without reducing caloric intake, prevents metabolic diseases So the title tells us a lot. It says that what's varied in this study is not what these mice ate, And there were essentially four conditions in this study and the results So I'm going to walk you What they did is they gave mice access to different types of food. There were four groups, one group of mice had access It would not be a diet that I confess I've actually tasted mouse chow. If you work with mice at At least once it doesn't taste very good, it tastes like a very bland And I confessed that. I only but mice like that stuff. And if you allow them to eat that stuff, what's called ad libitum you just keep it in their they will eat sometimes, and then they won't eat it at they also had a condition where a time restricted way, just for a certain but about eight hours, or they That was a separate group, got a high-fat diet at So this was kind of the really like high fat, And so they got a lot of food. And then there was a fourth high fat diet as much but only during a restricted cycle, now mice are nocturnal. Humans are what we call diurnal, actually, we're not really diurnal which means that we're most evening, not so much in the everything I'm going to tell And we know this now from human studies, one of the most important study was that mice that ate diet, a great tasting diet, but only during a restricted cycle maintained or lost that ingested the same diet, but had access to those gained weight, became And as an additional second point, the mice that restricted particular portion of eight actually showed some markers. And what was even more incredible during a particular feeding window, also experienced some reversal effects. So this study really lit up the about time-restricted eating again. They use an eight hour feeding window. The story around that eight interesting though. Not many people know this paper, and there was no reason not to out anybody, but it turns out that the feeding window and not a nine window, is because studies of this sort to perform and require the student, or post-doc there to ensure particular times and not in And mice are really good at hiding food. They'll even hide food in their jowls. And so there's a lot of work for that eight hour feeding window. And to make sure after that there's all the food has been the jowls of the mice and so forth. And it turns out that the student and or postdoc, I won't reveal who they were running. This study forbid their significant other, the scientist from being in that were much longer than required in order to ensure So when we hear the eight they are not holy and later, we are going to talk about restricted to eight hours For instance, how that impacts various and weight loss, et cetera. But the eight hour feeding because of a real world relationship with the researcher not because there's anything feeding window, now an important point about within the 24 hour cycle, it is very important that the more active phase of that's typically in the early part of the day, but not at night, put very simply, there are a lot of data now pointing to the fact that eating of the 24 hour cycle is very In fact, when we eat can either enhance our health. When we see light can enhance can diminish our feelings of wellbeing. I've talked many times before about this, on the human lab podcast, you want to get as much sunlight light in your eyes as safely possible. And then you want to avoid light It has detrimental dopamine depression, cortisol increases, et cetera. So when you view light is as view. And when you eat is as important study, they saw something which was that not only did phase of the 24 hour cycle benefit, things like lean body mass health parameters that we'll but it also anchored all the provided a more regular stable 24 hour rhythm, you may be 80% of the genes in your hour schedule. That is they change their levels back to high again, And when those genes are high low at the appropriate times, meaning their expression is times. And therefore the proper RNAs DNA codes for RNA, RNA is When that happens, your health benefits, when those genes are not they're higher or low at the cycle, that's when you get This study showed that when eight hour period within the hour cycle, many of the genes that are circadian clocks, these genes CRY1, et cetera, those so-called clock genes entrainment, a locking in to And while this was in mice, we now know that this I've said before on this that light, and when we view light is the genes and the clock systems entrained, meaning matched to So viewing light early in and as much as possible all day, great, ideally that sunlight, avoiding night is also great. It's great because it causes genes and the decreases in throughout your body at the second most powerful called, is food, and when the results they saw what they saw is that the peaks very regular. And the dips in these clock And that led to a whole positive health effects. Conversely, when mice ate, whenever they wanted these clock genes became negative health consequences these changes in these clock genes. This is now also been shown So if you want to be healthy, your metabolic health to One of the most important if you lied at the appropriate schedule and to not view schedule and to eat at the day. Now, again, there are rare instances that entire days or entire 24 beneficial. But for now we're talking restricted feeding involve a window of your more active phase, putting aside people that work is when you want to eat. And this eight hour feeding reinforcing signal that combines these genes are expressed The short takeaway from this about and perhaps even engage So, as I mentioned earlier, when mice can eat around the And one of the bad things suffers, the liver is involved production of important hormones to metabolism. And when mice can eat around the clock, their livers got very sick, Other factors in the liver pathway of liver disease, essentially reversed that or healthier liver conditions, but also additional So restricting your feeding every 24 hour cycle has clearly in humans to enhance liver How does it do this, well, it as I mentioned earlier, sets certain conditions in the of time. Anytime we eat, whether or not we are a a period of time that's required but also gastric emptying and breaking down that food and utilizing it. And that is an active And that process of breaking cellular functions that if hour cycle or even extended cycle, meaning you're eating an 18 hour window, that And this is now been established increases the expression of the body, as such as what are all those things? They are pro-inflammatory markers. So the reason that the liver too often is because inflammatory These inflammatory markers they're there for a reason, but they are there in challenges, immune challenges, or the ingestion of food But then in an ideal circumstance, they are reduced in the period present in the digestive little food present in So by eating around the clock, you're making yourself sicker periods of time, each 24 hours a day, you're actually making activating certain processes weight, either maintenance We'll talk about weight gain impacting things like liver health. Also the expression of different fat, the fat that We will return to this also glucose regulation, so the in fact, there are many It's so wonderful is that liver health, bile acid metabolism, energy liver metabolites, many, many aspects of our health not just what we eat, as we move forward, and we talk about intermittent windows, six hour windows, 12 hour windows for all sorts purposes. I want to start to establish all of us, any of us can use in order goals. There are some absolutes time-restricted feeding. Here are a couple of absolutes consider, first of all, it pays off in the metabolic and in the weight maintenance any food in the first hour longer, so I want to repeat that. One of the key pillars of the first hour after you wake up and potentially any food, okay, the second major pillar that's that for the two and ideally you also don't ingest any food matter. And we will talk about what whether or not certain liquids, even coffee and tea can in a few moments, but it's very clear from the research any food or ingesting any the first 60 minutes And for the two to three that's ideal for the earlier, all the different things like metabolic health and so forth. The two most common questions when is the ideal time Is it early in the day, the middle of the day or later in the day? And how long should that eating window be? Should it be eight hours? We already heard why the established. It was because of these lab the particular relationship involved, or should it be seven hours It turns out that there's some can follow in order to As we move into this I want to highlight a very came out, literally came out last week reviews. And the title of this review the prevention and management Although the data in this diseases, this is a paper It's a very lengthy review that's beautifully organized studies done in humans. Well over a hundred restricted feeding in diabetes, no diabetes, et cetera, with detailed references and I've spent a lot of time with this review, even though it just came out goldmine resource. It is also the major resource tell you if you would like material. So let's deal with this first feeding window, and here again, we're thinking about a schedule eating at least once every 24 hours, not two day or three day So it turns out that the when is it best to eat is about the other side of the coin, which is when is it best to fast? So, because we are fasting during sleep, it's very clear that it's best fast either into the morning Now this might seem kind of obvious, but it's actually not so obvious. You could place that feeding middle of the day or late in the day. Let's think about what happens our body undergoes a number brain and body in order to Many of you have probably which is essentially a cleaning cells and cells that are injured or sick. And this is a natural process that occurs, and it occurs mainly during sleep. Although not only during sleep, fasting of any kind does tend to enhance autophagy. It is not the only way to Autophagic conditions can be sub caloric diet. And there are other things trigger autophagy, but fasting So when we're asleep, the bad cells are getting And the good cells also are mechanisms mainly related to, or at least governed by those about earlier, those clock genes. So you're already fasting when you are into that fast depends last meal. So if you fast early in the day, and you've been asleep I would hope somewhere between people is going to be beneficial. When you wake up, I mentioned earlier that you the first 60 minutes after waking, but were you to extend 9:00 AM 10:00 AM, 11:00 AM or even 12 noon or of the deep, fast that And certainly toward why do I say deep, fast? Well, because when we eat the clearance and the processes in our cells to digestion, and the utilization of that hours, so if you eat a meal 20 minutes or 30 minutes, or even an hour, and then you stop eating, but you are not fasting at that point. You can say you're fasting food into your digestive tract, but you're not in a fasted state. You are not under conditions I'll talk about things that transition into fasting. So one thing is certain, that be tacked or attached to your that makes it easier for you for a period of time. So we can view that point better and worst, okay? So if you are like most you're waking up somewhere or maybe even 8:00 AM. Let's say you were to push such that you started eating at noon, and then you stopped eating at 6:00 PM. Well, then you're not eating from bedtime is 10:00 PM, but your body is not yet in a fasted However, you're starting to taper into and then all through sleep. And until the next you are actually in a fasted state, now, most people find it very hard the day, so while that's best, it's ideal for sake of the fasting related improvements in health, it is not ideal. And it's not very applicable social situations. Most people eat breakfast with others and, or eat dinner with others. Some people eat lunch with it's hard to restrict your absolute middle of the day, but from a purely health perspective, in a very objective way, that Let's imagine a different feeding window starts in the even 3:00 PM. Some people don't have much themselves to get their 3:00 PM, and then they won't Right, if you do the math, you realize that that feeding It still constitutes what we or time restricted feeding. But assuming that they go midnight, they are not actually fasted six hours or so of sleep, maybe five, but probably more like six hours of sleep, they're still digesting the in the night. It does appear beneficial sleep-related fast, meaning you don't want your to bedtime. And that's why we came up pillar that I discussed which is at least no eating for but also no eating within two And because we all need to important for our health of all kinds. You want to prioritize sleep, but because we also have to eat, then you start to think about good to push that feeding because when you go to sleep, you're not actually capitalizing fasting. Now it's not just the case in sleep, although that's true typically we're not hungry or for food or wanting food We're just sleeping. There is something special during sleep, because it's associated with relate to the so-called lymphatic system, the movement of lymph like the brain, and kind of sweeping if you will, a clearing out of the metabolic autophagy that's associated So we could do a whole episode on this, but essentially during during fasted states of sleep, we are undergoing a number that clear out debris from or at least offset dementia. This is now well-established processes occurring in So what we're starting to number of constraints on I would be remiss if I constraints and the real because we want to eat with family or our significant 9:00 PM, and that's the You have to eat late in the day. And that certainly not a sin. I'm not saying that's good or bad, here we're trying to establish and worst. So from both a practical and purely objective view of how can benefit us, starting to eat each day, somewhere around 10:00 AM or around noon, and then allowing a feeding maybe 8:00 PM. That seems to me, at least based on the data typical cultures, where people eat in the that seems to me like the kind you to get the most out time-restricted feeding, but does not set you up to be social rhythms in most cultures. If you think about it from the eight feeding window, what you'll find is that others. If you like, or by yourself, you will be able to eat at least in most countries, eating dinner somewhere typical. When you say a feeding That doesn't mean sitting That means your last bite of calories was at 8:00 PM. Assuming that you go to bed 1:00 AM that allows this tapering off, or this transition from and still allows you to capitalize fasting that is sleep-related fasting. And again, I want to emphasize that the sleep is vital and eating too that fasting related sleep. Now, there are a number of caveats and there's an important caveat that are specifically maintaining muscle mass. So first let's talk about food that relates to whether or not fasted state. Because clearly when we that feeding window could foods, it could involve hamburgers, plants, fruit, whatever it is, or it could involve just fats There are at least three how quickly you transition state, remember, as you ingest your last that's not when the fast begins. That might be when the fastening one of these apps that which can help you track your But that's not when it actually still seeing food. You're actually carrying even though you're not you're still eating in some sense. So it should be somewhat obvious going to take longer to So that will impact how slowly fed state to a fasted state. There's no way I can spell out should ingest based on the cetera, but you're all familiar very full, comfortably or not feeling full and feeling hungry. So learning to gauge Also foods that include some to slow gastric emptying time. And depending on the kind of fats, it could mean that a given hours versus five hours. And more fats might be a large been, can take five or six hours. A smaller meal with less fat quickly consuming calories in that gastric emptying time And then of course, there's the glucose and which is that foods that lead like pure sugars. Then your glucose will drop, however, if they're combined with fats, then it tends to be a more more sustained, et cetera. Fibrous foods will also create release in glucose. The important thing here is that you can comfortably manage, okay? Meaning that on average, you can obey a six hour feeding window or a 10 And then to place that feeding context that you can manage there are two key points that scientific data about this it. And this is based on a that Satchin and his There's a website that they Circadian Clock, you can go There are a number of but what they've done is behavior of thousands of people. People will take a picture of and it enters into their if you create one on My over many days or weeks, what's great about this is it establishes what's essentially called a people ate. And a number of important fetal grams, across large different time zones with First of all, almost everybody underestimates Meaning people who think that feeding window or six hour are analyzed, it almost is always the case feeding window that's one or even two hours think, well, how could that possibly be if bite at noon and they're taking Well, that must mean that they are hours. And it turns out that people cheat, but they don't cheat in They might have, you know, a or they'll have a cup of tea And so when people are in most cases for this experiment, what you find is that most actually quite a bit longer. So in discussing this with literature, it's clear that if you'd like window, that you should probably window, because there's always a side of that eating window. Very few people are extremely windows. It's just hard to do in the social gatherings and, Okay, so as we build forward, your ideal fasting slash we now have several different first, at least no food for the first one hour, two, no food intake for two and ideally three hours prior to your bedtime. Three, if you want to select then you should probably feeding window because in reality, your feeding window is meaning real life constraints. And if you'd like to be on you should probably select an window, because the way it plays out eat outside of their The other nice thing about eating window than is comfortable into account that as you take sip of calories, there's which you are actually in a fasted state. And because you're eating days, presumably some foods Some things spike your insulin others. Sometimes you eat more This allows you to fall well benefits of time-restricted demonstrated in humans, which generally involve an So I think this eight hour good thing to shoot for and we will discuss the exceptions, but some people truly They just require more food. And along those lines, I just now briefly want to touch have looked at using a very four hours, nowadays, a number of people are doing or are restricting their feeding or six hours. And that turns out to be an data around it actually are One surprising thing to leap review on time restricted feeding in humans feeding windows of say four to of positive health effects. Things like increased insulin sensitivity, which we know is good, remember type two diabetes is a reduction in in beta cell function and pressure, decreased oxidative stress appetite. So positive health effects general. However, they either produce or they tend to produce even of course there's variation studies, but this is somewhat surprising. So the eight hour feeding window across almost all the inflammation, weight, and adherence. I should mention people's ability quite good on this eight but when people try and undergo of four to six hours, it seems that they are overeating at least overeating with respect Now, the contrast to this is the schedule, very few studies one meal per day, unless a sort of feast typically would because it sort of depends But when you look at the again, very few studies People typically maintain or day schedule. So what we can say is that window produces all of the time-restricted feeding straightforward for most people basis and on a regular basis, turns out to be very important. I'll get back to that point in a moment. Whereas the four to six hour serve people as well as say window, simply because people are window and the one meal per day, while perhaps ideal for actually cause people to under-eat. And in some cases that They actually want to under-eat. But when we start thinking and when we start considering production, fertility, that's when we can really start hour feeding window versus window versus the one meal per some different objectivity, we can start to look at it it turns out that when you long that feeding window is other things in particular hormones, that can be very important for sex and reproduction can be performance in athleticism. And there are excellent studies on this. So let's explore those now. So let's talk about some window early in the day would There was a study that was Reports, again, Cell Press Journal, excellent journal peer from Aoyama, et al, so this is AOYAMA, et al. This was published just recently at the distribution of protein delivered either early in And I'm summarizing here quite a lot, but I should mention that this mice and humans, same paper, mice and humans and involved essentially increasing the try and induce hypertrophy, which is the growth of muscle tissue. It does appear that muscle hypertrophy by virtue of the enhanced protein synthesis because of the expression of genes called BMAL, BMAL, BMAL regulates a number of pathways within muscle cells, such that eating protein early in the day, supports muscle tissue And in this study, they also looked at the effects BCAs branch chain amino acids, which is popular in bodybuilding training circles and BCAs number of different foods, The takeaway of this study However, the takeaway is if your main or building muscle, then it can be beneficial to day, you would still want to obey this, what we're calling a kind not eating any food for the least the first hour post. And the cutoff for when you be sometime before 10:00 AM. And there I'm averaging situations, but in general, this BMAL expression is such 7:00 AM. Your main interest is in muscle. Then you would want to ingest 10:00 AM. But obviously if you're effects of intermittent fasting, that you wouldn't ingest any minutes upon waking. Now it's not as if at 10:01 can't generate hypertrophy, However, it's very interesting that resistance training, the load bearing exercise So whether or not in other words, people are training early in late in the day. It still appears that ingesting favors hypertrophy or that one is better, or I should say more easily way of these clock, regulated protein synthesis early in the day, in no way, shape or form does this study say that is somehow bad for you? It just emphasizes the positive early in the day for sake hypertrophy. So if you're somebody who is maintenance and hypertrophy, then it may make sense to move in the day. And certainly there are people in muscle maintenance and hypertrophy, who aren't doing and that's also perfectly fine, but this just so happens to be fasting and time restricted feeding. There are of course, modes of eating where one eats the day or weights meals differently. Such that meals early in the the day or vice versa. There are a near infinite But if you are somebody who the many clearly established time-restricted feeding, and you are somebody who would muscle, then ingesting proteins in the be important to you at least And therefore that eight established as more or less of the day might not be Now I can just personally say that for me. When I wake up in the morning, it's very easy for me to 2:00 PM. Eating early in the day is I discuss this point with Satchin, because we were talking about their feeding window or place schedule of intermittent fasting. And it's very clear that one period in order for that to happen, you should allow yourself a from one week to 10 days in window by about an hour each day or so. And then once you establish comfortable for you and that time, that you simply maintain that 30 days, but ideally you Now this turns out to be they've gleaned from massive experiment that where people are entering the and, and eating. Excuse me, anytime we talk about mice, I always think about feeding because I come from a background in my lab, works on both And anytime I think about but of course they are the same thing. The interesting thing to emerge set in humans is that when as I mentioned before, oftentimes they think they're window, but they are actually eating However, even for people that are very feeding to a four, six if they're very strict about and when they ingest calories, one of the findings that's that almost every individual eating window resides In particular on the weekends, people are either extending or in a way that makes it seem time zone and are eating And this is extremely important. As I mentioned earlier, based on the 2012 study where eating at a particular help enhance the expression If you are eating within a feeding window, but that feeding window is or five days a week. You're really organized let's say for sake of noon to 8:00 PM, Monday noon to 8:00 PM, Thursday and so forth. But then on the Saturday, it's becoming 11:00 AM and or perhaps your starting you're having brunch that and then it's extending But it shifting around that circadian clock mechanisms downstream effects of eating three days to recover from. So obviously we don't want to stuff, but because this is an intermittent fasting and important as how long is where that feeding window And perhaps even more important fairly regular where that Because even if you have a if it's drifting around from day to day, that actually offsets a effects of intermittent fasting. So to really just underscore pieces of the biological if you are very strict or semi feeding window, but on the weekends that falling later than it normally the week. It is as if you are going to bed later, even if you're going to at least from the perspective because of the way that eating impacts, or I should say subtracts, the sleep-related fasting that if you were to finish eating bedtime, so again, we don't want to create any focus on this, I think that most, all people could benefit from schedule, but they should really think to on a regular basis and underestimate the feeding window, that they actually are partaking in, and that they should place that of the 24 hour cycle that days, and I want to emphasize most again, because we are not laboratory mice. We don't have a graduate student day because that's what their them to do. And then removing the food cages, we have access to food along those lines, however, there are things that we can offset some of the drift if you will, that we experience or that we feeding window occurs or that out a little later and then the next day, there are things things that we can take. And so I'd like to discuss those briefly. So throughout this episode, I've more or less been alluding eat, there's some period of actually still eating, at least from the because glucose is up, insulin is up and you're digestive processes that don't a fasted state, right? It's not just about when you last sip. However, there are things that we can from a fed state to a fasted state. And so I'd like to discuss what those are. And I want to emphasize that a better way to think about because we think of eating we're eating, okay, we're but you're not actually fasting So we should really think about from a seller processes perspective, that's actually what your body attention to. And by now with everything I think that should be So there's a fun and exciting which is glucose clearing. You may have heard the old adage minute walk after dinner, that it accelerates the rate And indeed it does, clearing can be accomplished through but light movement or emptying time, so for instance, if you were to eat a meal and then plop to the couch, watch TV, or get on your computer or go to sleep, it would be five or six hours from a fed state to a fasted state. However, you can accelerate that minute just light walk, it It certainly doesn't have to be jogging, but just walking outside or moving around. So glucose clearing is an from the fed state to the fasted state. And just a light walk can if you can't get outside, some people will go literally of doing things like things like that, and indeed, those will increase the expression and things that mobilize glucose that sort, but, you know, most people aren't doing or certainly who've had a big meal, just taking a light In addition, you could consider Now you wouldn't necessarily after eating. So let's take a look at what kind does to blood glucose, it turns out that when you actually has opposite depending on whether or not day. So a fairly recent study looked high intensity interval training, which of course can take It can take the form of It can take the form of, you know, burpees and pushups and sprints things. But high intensity interval that gets people's heart well above 70% of maximum and then repeating and how long training of course will also vary. There's there are a very brief, you know, six or 12 or 15 minute workouts. Some people can carry on training for up to 45 in extreme cases. But when you look at the intensity interval training and there are a couple of studies one that emphasized that blood increase if high intensity early in the day and will interval training is Now the purpose for this clearance of blood glucose for It was mainly focused on athletic not that was better early in et cetera. But we can extract some are beneficial for sake of If you have ingested food evening and late in the day, and you're thinking about going enter sleep in a way that then engaging in high-intensity afternoon will lower or will lower blood glucose. And in that way will help you into the fastest state provided after the high intensity Now is the increase in blood intensity interval is that detrimental, not necessarily. So that oftentimes is nutrients to the muscles. They've just done a lot of hard work. So it's not that high intensity be done early in the day, including myself training just for the way that my always better for me than And the other important intensity interval training beneficial from the perspective lowering blood glucose, and helping transition from preparation for sleep. However, if you're ingesting caffeine high intensity interval training from getting to sleep well, then it's going to be detrimental overall. So the reason I mentioned because it's nice to know that any other meal for that matter training provided it's done can lower blood glucose and fasted states. But I also mentioned it because achieve when we partake in time-restricted feeding is what access unfed states or fasted states. It's not really about when It's about extending the as long as you can, in a way that's still compatible not the other way around. And this gets back to this which is that what we eat when we view light, it's about setting a context brain and body. So it's not so much about the It's about the activities you to one another over it really beautifully highlights is interacting all the When you're going to be awakened, when you're going to be asleep, when you eat is going to be be awakened, when you're And when you eat is also going are able to clear out debris repair the various cells when you're able to reduce throughout your body. And this is really the beauty which is, it's not really It's about accessing the beauty there are other ways to clear supplements or prescription drugs. These are so-called glucose disposal agents, such as Metformin, which is a prescription drug or berberine, which is an over the counter dramatic reductions in blood glucose. And so they shift you from And I know many people who meals that include a large for instance, as a way Now I've tried berberine before. And what I can tell you is which by the way is very its effects are almost but it's much less expensive If you take berberine carbohydrates, many experience a splitting headache, you become hypoglycemic because agent. So if you're going to experiment and or berberine or similar, you want to be very cautious blood glucose, that's already low. And the dose response for this individual to the next. And there's a strong circadian component. So if some people react very day, but find that later in the day, it provides extreme headaches opposite. So I caution you in exploring Metformin that you should physical and psychological might be great for you, but might also not be there are a number of continuous glucose monitors, I've tried one of these, it involves putting with a little needle which is continuing monitoring your blood glucose. And you can look at it and you can learn a lot that impact the increases in If you're doing experiments you can see how those You can see how exercise impacts blood glucose, excuse me again, it's very hard to assess blood blood glucose monitor, and you're mainly going to be relying oh, I feel like I have low Like I have high blood sugar blood sugar. So I have to say that glucose walk or exercise moderate or easier to titrate and adjust you're going to take, where And then once you ingest a certain dosage, you're along for the ride, at least until the effects of off, it doesn't mean those It doesn't mean people aren't are, but they are potentially that is a double sided blade. So I encourage you to If you decide to at all, it's worth thinking about what is and why it's beneficial as headaches. And in some cases can also hormones in the fasted state, a number of different proteins undergo changes in their expression. We talked about this we tend to reduce the activity called MTOR mammalian target of rapamycin. MTOR is very active in cells So throughout development, it's also very active in MTOR needs to be what's If you don't know what that But phosphorylation is a manner are altered so that they can cells, MTOR is associated with cell and unhealthy. When MTOR is phosphorylated, so phospho MTOR expressed as PM6. If this is all escaping Phospho MTOR and PS6 Now, this makes sense. If you think about it, because eating and growth are fasting is not necessarily anti-growth, but it is not pro we see increases in cells the sirtuins, things like transcription factors like FOX-O, ATF and ketones or ketone bodies. You may have heard of the ketogenic diet. What's the point of all you just blitz you with a biochemistry. It's to say that we have cell and PSX, and we have cell repair and are associated with AMPK, which Dr. Davidson Claire from Harvard and others are famous for discovering and understanding these two different divergent cell breakdown and repair actual clearance autophagy, and repair. Those can be triggered by fasted state. So one way I'd like you to not just eating, but having recently eaten meaning high blood glucose and, or you've recently eat eaten, or are currently eating is that when you eat or when when you're fasted, you are either promoting you're promoting cellular repair And so, again, this is about setting conditions It's not so much about it leads to increases in MTOR, doesn't matter if it's plant-based, animal-based fat, protein, You are biasing your system cell growth. And any time you haven't eaten is low, you're biasing your system And this is why people who glucose regulation issues glucose, disposal agents, I'm not necessarily but it's because those They create situations in the AMPKs, and sirtuins, and others to push your down a route of repair, even though you might have along the lines of the health fasting, there are nice data microbiome and in particular, in the treatment of irritable of colitis in time, restricted feeding, meaning time-restricted feeding people with those conditions, following the general parameters eight hours and so forth. Why and how, well, by way impacting the expression of and because the clock genes mucus lining of the gut, it appears that intermittent of so-called lactobacillus And lactose bacillus is when with a number of different At the same time, time-restricted feeding seems of some of the gut microbiota, like acetobacter and some of healthy mucosal lining, and that promote better So these are pathways that and it appears that modulating these processes, but is actually having a direct in a way that favors a So it should come as no experience gut issues benefit window to eight hours or so The other very exciting finding is one of the major health issues these days is the proliferation fatty liver disease, 30 years or so non-alcoholic exceedingly rare to see in the fatty deposits in the liver are bad. It is essentially liver disease. Nowadays children and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Some of these people are but it's a serious health concern. And it's growing in numbers all the time. A recent study that was Medicine just a couple of weeks whether or not the gut tissue is impacting the liver health. And in particular nonalcoholic The short takeaway from this was previously thought, while very important for a body doesn't seem to be related liver disease. This is surprising to people that have been following the however, brown fat, which is a healthy fat that we and in our upper neck, it doesn't tend to be but it sits deep to the skin, but creates a thermogenic effect for reducing the amount of other fat, the type of fat that we're about and talking about subcutaneous fat around Brown fat seems to have a of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. What this study showed was diminished concentrations of brown fat, there is a higher probability liver disease. Now the good news is brown And again, this isn't going to This is going to create increased make people leaner and brown important positive effects. Now, this is interesting because one to three minutes, two or maybe even 10 minutes, two to four times per week Also time-restricted feeding density of brown fat store. So time-restricted feeding also brown fat stores, probably because of the way epinephrin and adrenaline, which tend to go up when we're fasted. What does this all mean? This means for sake of reducing, or maybe preventing, I want to underline potentially fatty liver disease, time-restricted feeding also Many people out there are hormones, and as we mentioned earlier, insulin is a hormone and have very positive effects on so forth, but anytime people immediately seem to leap testosterone, and estrogen, because indeed they have powerful effects, both in the short-term and mental and physical There's at least one study time, restricted eating on performance, athletic performance, immune This was a study by Mauro, et al, that was performed on elite cyclists. So I want to point that out. I was a randomized control trial, but what's really nice about a number of different hormonal were using time restricted eating, or that had a more extended eating window. And they tracked And the amount of food they considerable, 4,800 calories, but then again, they were very active and different things related performance and overall performance is not the point that I Although there were some performance related to I want to talk about relates relate to most, everybody, which are the effects on hormone, testosterone, sex, which can bind up testosterone free form of testosterone, which is the one that has most and body. And the major takeaway time-restricted feeding of the so-called control but either compact throughout hour feeding window or allowing feeding window did lead to testosterone. And I think a number of people that and think, oh, well then maybe time-restricted There are a number of important one is while they decrease significant. It's also going to depend So if somebody has already testosterone and it drops by 10 or 20%, that could lead them into a wellbeing, whereas if somebody a decrease will necessarily do that. So it's important to take This is why I'm always such blood work and knowing what's them, a very change in So-called stress, hormone cortisol, of course is also naturally healthy way to wake you but you don't want its levels peaks in cortisol late in the day, that's actually correlated other untoured things. I would have thought that by a particular time each day, that these hard training increases in serum cortisol and in fact, the opposite was true. They had significant reductions consequence of time, restricted feeding. I should mention there were cortisol also in the control group, but not to the same extent. And the two groups did another. Now this is important because hormone testosterone, you'd time-restricted feeding is significantly, even though the number of constant across the study, but in fact, because cortisol is lower, it may mean that the effects reduction in testosterone is offset. And that's because cortisol this somewhat of a dance inhibiting the effects of versa. So it is interesting and gallery of hormones. And they did look at a number of hormones. They looked at other inflammatory markers. Those were not increased. That's not surprising if you Satchin Panda study this restricted feeding. They saw reductions in stress markers in time, restricted feeding mice. And here, this also seems So the takeaway is for sake restricted feeding is health, even in high-performing athletes, based on everything we know, I would not suggest that window to less than eight hours, especially if they're training And it's not just athletes that should pay attention to this, when we are working very hard, stressed, when we are studying for exams, or we are in conflict with that creates a stress in the body that's very similar to the body and brain don't and mental stress, it's Remember that it's just There's no special hormone psychological stress, so again, in thinking about what sort of for you, we arrive back at this eight or less flexible for most conditions, even high-performing elite athletes. And I would say just by logical extension, even for people that have a And I personally wouldn't suggest of stress in their life where their life shorten their eight hours, because then you would expect increase some of the inflammatory markers. You would increase the stress hormones, and you would be decreasing estrogen, some of the So again, it's all about context it isn't holy, but seems to be a really useful health benefits of of which we've discussed from restricted feeding. And yet that it could still be schedules and for maintaining this, for women that are trying to for couples that are I think it's also important that's too short. The relationship between glucose and leptin and hormones And we can summarize it very easily here, although I've done several previously on optimizing hormone health. But basically we undergo and there's enough body fat to the brain called leptin. That's a hormone that comes brain to turn on puberty that's puberty, but even as adults for there needs to be sufficient in order to maintain ovulation brain communicates with the Similarly for men fasting fasting, we now know reduces testosterone exactly clear, however, either in total calories you will suffer a drop in sperm And this makes sense. The body is communicating to the brain, whether or not conditions reproduce and to presumably, and hopefully support the offspring. So there's a logical link how much food is available available to you and the signals reproductive success. There are some data that pointed of intermittent fasting Those data right now only come from mice, that study was published we still await the studies in humans. Some people do not do well on terms of mood or hormone health. And so everyone needs to determine not having a time restricted them. How long that time-restricted I think eight hours is kind based on everything that And for some people time-restricted be compatible with for them eating more meals presumably smaller meals, same caloric intake is going hormones. This is something that is going to have to be determined However, if you're going to I do want to remind you that seven or ideally 10 days not just going, flipping from eating to three 6:00 AM to 10:00 PM and feeding window, but rather winnowing down that or so per day is going to allow body, including leptin the which are systems within the that food is about to come so that you're not and you're not throwing your whack. I keep coming back to this and I want to provide a And just to encourage that The lengthy review that features a number of studies feeding window, but there's a particular study mainly because I don't expect reference list of the other review. And this is a study that was carried out between Satchi Panda's lab and Krista Varady's labs. This is a collaboration. The study was carried out in of eight hour time restricted metabolic disease, risk factors And this study essentially showed, I'll just read the conclusions restricted feeding produces a weight loss without calorie These people aren't calorie adhering to an eight hour window. They are taking in fewer and clinically it reduced blood pressure. So I mentioned the study, not because there aren't many hour feeding window also in humans, but because the eight hour obese adults and non obese adults. And there are even a So this eight hour window seems thumb and a kind of anchor about incorporating There are of course, And while some people have hours, 36 hours or more meaning eating one day, not eating the next day or in eating very few calories, the next day has been tested. A few studies have also maintenance level of and then taking two days or eating very few calories, In fact, there's a sort of a community exploring longer, fast for sake of trying to effects of dementia, thus there isn't any quality clinical yet for sake of dementia, and if anyone's aware of them, please send me a link in the comments. But alternate day fasting has of health. This has been written up meaning bone loss, they didn't suffer It does seem that it can create can help with obese individuals blood glucose, and every other day fasting rapid effects on weight loss than time restricted feeding, however, every other day type fasting be feasible. They're just not going to be period of time. And what hasn't really been whether or not people who do days of eating followed whether or not that leads whether or not that leads to et cetera. So for now the eight hour feeding feeding seems to be the most tested, supported in animal studies and around which I think if they're considering getting it's also sort of hard to significant exercise schedule other day fasting. Remember, in any study, people or at least are incentivized study. This is one of the major issues that says that three or four equal in terms of their Adherence is very different don't have a researcher logging all your food. Most people don't do that consistently. And we can take a little bit on this to try and arrive organization of an eating plan, or if we wanted to call it a diet, we could would be for you. Many people find it easier periods of each 24 hour cycle portion control is very for other people it's I don't eat half the croissant. I don't think it's a real thing, it's not, it's not available to me, I should say. Now, of course I could but I noticed that when because they're so delicious glucose a rise in the other associated with ingesting And it's actually a lot of work croissant. There's something that's much about eating the entire croissant. And actually there's something about not eating the croissant at all. And just knowing that later I Now that's me. Other people find that they portion control that for them throughout the day is what psychological and physical et cetera. And I mentioned work and aspects of fasting that have restricted feeding and fasting people get. When first of all, they don't have to think about because they know when They also don't have to behavior because they already and when they're not going to eat. Whereas when you're restricting portions, you actually have to make You know, and I think I like you know, is that exactly half? Or could I have like another This kind of thing. I That's why I like a time I know I'm going to eat for, in my case, I use a 10 hour feeding window or so, and I'll eat the whole croissant. I just don't have to think about it, now, the food choices that you make are of course also going Certain foods will increase blood glucose, such that you're going to Others will maintain lower to be more controlled in Those are all individual of their own entire episode. But I do want to point out restricted feeding is that decision-making in the brain. The so-called go no-go if you want to know this Anytime we have to restrict a behavior, that's called a no-go. Anytime we engage in a no go behaviors require a control, and it's very And so time restricted feeding whole no-go go negotiation that have to restrict portions. And so I think this is a gravitated towards time people that don't want to have just very straight forward. One of the more hot button not given equal amounts of of activity and equal amounts whether or not restricting biases, more weight loss toward fat tissues, because of course, we can lose that from any number within the body, muscle Now this is such a hot button to get into it, but I'm because there are data This is covered in the review that describes how if people feeding schedule for long periods of time. So 60 days or longer, there's some metabolic metabolize energy that do seem more fat loss relative to burning state of caloric restriction. And I want to say when in a because there's really no there's no way that you can you burn or excrete, when I certainly don't suggest bulimics and other people that use laxatives at a way to system so it can't be converted into That's a very, in that case, but in general calories as I mentioned earlier as this but in states of caloric restriction, meaning sub maintenance intake, time-restricted feeding does energy burned to compensate the way it accomplishes It turns out that it drives increasing a hepatic lipase. This is something called LAPC lipase, which anytime you hear So it seems to increase hepatic lipase. So it increases the enzyme lipolysis and energy production CIDEC, CIDEC. which is a lipid droplet Now that's a mouthful, no pun intended, but what CIDEC really is molecule is it can inhibit lipolysis. So extended periods of meaning eight hour feeding that's obeyed for several months system to shift toward burning higher percentage of fat Now I doubt that this is going wire, almost hairball, ridiculous online debates time-restricted feeding is schedule, look, I don't think any particular If you are sub caloric, meaning fewer calories burned you're going to lose weight. But the data seemed to point restricted feeding for a and you maintain that, that you are increasing lipolysis energy use from fat, and you're decreasing the lipid inhibitors. So it's both a you're removing on the accelerator of fat loss. I think that this logically time restricted feeding with be at least to my mind, the most scientifically significant portion of the body fat stores. Any discussion about fasting discussion about what does However, there is no black and white and you should immediately eating and not eating are not It depends on when you ate are in your circadian cycle. We can actually arrive at a something breaks the fast or not. Now the technical way to go continuous glucose monitor food, of different kinds of different kinds and because ultimately blood glucose or not your system is in There are other parameters too, of course, but that's the dominant one in so far as the scientific will not break your fast fast drinking coffee, provided it as black coffee ingesting caffeine in pill There are other things For instance, eating one peanut when deep in your fast, eating a whole break your fast if you are However, if you just finished a meal or it was a very large meal indeed, eating one peanut So it's all contextual, that's what's really important to understand, unless you're going to wear And unless you are going to monitor and set an absolute is to break your fast. I think there are some simple First of all, anything that simple sugars can And there's actually a study on this, which shows that if one gram of sugar post dinner, if they had a full meal for the expression of some of the fasting and to sleep and Now that's pretty extreme, almost kind of scary to think about, but that's how sensitive our system is. If we already have somewhat meal that we ate an hour or so ago, whereas if we have run high intensity training, and we haven't quite reached feeding window, will eating take us out of that fast? Well, depends on what the food is. If it's mostly fat, probably not, a number of talk about so-called fat fasting, fat fasting as a way to kind either eating or not eating feeding window versus non feeding window. So some people will ingest so-called MCTs, or people will ingest fats only window begins. So these are sort of how the out tend to go. But that of course won't increase as much as carbohydrates will, protein will have sort of And as I mentioned earlier, ingesting carbohydrates with rise in glucose and will glucose is released. So we really can't say food X however, at the extremes, we if you drink a can of soda pop, unless you just ran an ultra marathon, you're breaking your fast, You're breaking your fast, probably not. If you've been fasting for fasting for five hours or more. So you can start to see where and it's very contextual. And this is why any posts that that you see that something fast, that doesn't place it in the you ate and what you ate and within the circadian clock it's a sort of meaningless I think what's really useful continuous glucose monitor is about when you initiate your stop your feeding window establish a more regular routine foods and not others that are emphasized before on this podcast, and I will continue to emphasize people, vegetarian keto carnivore diet works Some people are omnivores, some people are vegan. All of that is great and fine by me. Everyone has to establish we've really bypass the particular origin or type But all the same rules apply called intermittent fasting So what breaks a fast will or what you are willing to eat. That's a totally separate But as we've established, when some of you are probably wondering sweeteners or non artificial Stevia break a fast, And I have to say the data There is evidence that when sweeteners, that it can create a transient followed by a transient baseline. This is thought to explain the ingestion of things like of that sort. There are not a lot of plant-based non sugar even things like monk fruit, which is a separate category unto itself. There aren't a lot of studies on this. I think most people need to The best way of course, would be to wear a continuous fasted state of either or maybe you've been fasting Stevia in whatever form you you want with sucralose setting aside the discussion things on the gut microbiome, which is a different topic entirely. I think it's fair to the plant-based non sugar particular, Stevia seemed to have a glucose when considered over aspartame, and sucralose, saccharin. I think we can say more or less the same, but as soon as you get into you also have to get into a evidence published in nature now pointing to the fact not when consumed in moderation, but when consumed in excess detrimental effects on the gut microbiome. So do artificial sweeteners break a fast? It depends on the amount And in general, I think you're probably okay indulging in them too often, however, some people just by virtue feel a spike in their appetite to adhere to the feeding window. And so this is why you can controlled study on this would And I'm not really sure that actually design and carry there would be so much discipline in adhering whether or not people experience blood glucose, how that impacts them, whether or not they're exercising. It just becomes an infinite in experimental science. So you really have to but I don't think that we can sweeteners break a fast. I think that would be we were talking about both behavioral and compound berberine, and in fact, cinnamon is even a mild It can actually reduce blood believe it or not, can You may have experienced this very, very sweet and almost feeling poisoned by how sweet it is, especially if you're not sugary things. One quick remedy for that is lemon squeezed into juice and of the taste and by virtue of blood glucose. You'll notice that that disappears, that's not magic. That's the effects of acidity So there are a number of glucose, they're not they're not sweeping it out way that berberine or Metformin would, or that high intensity exercise day would. But there is one particular can help manage psychologically the fasting portion of the to your feeding window. And that's salt. I've talked a little bit about but because neurons use salt, sodium and potassium and magnesium, the so-called electrolytes in of chemical and electrical signaling, everything you do depends on chemical, electrical signaling and all signaling requires electrolytes neurons run on the passage of their cell membranes are, I should say, across their cell Many people find that the the shakiness that's accustomed blood sugar can be offset by sea salt, or even just a tiny pinch of water and drinking it. Some people find because of acidity, that if they're feeling and they put some lemon juice drops their blood glucose further. So there's a common practice the internet of waking up or lemon juice in it with I think that little pinch What is it doing, how is Well, salt water actually has a mild agent, but it has a stabilizing And so, because sodium brings with osmolarity of your blood in levels in your blood and brain and body. Many people find that They're feeling lightheaded. They think they need sugar or food, but what will actually And I know a number of people practice and have written to if I just take a little they may or may not include They immediately feel better quite straightforward to get out to that, to wait until the feeding window kicks in. This is especially true for because when you ingest caffeine, you actually excrete a lot of water, it has a diarrhetic effect. And with that water goes salt. So it actually causes Now the role of sodium in is, you know, quite one of the premier scientific special issue all about talking about the research indeed people with chronic pressure or very high blood wary of ingesting too much sodium. But for most people ingesting enough water and they don't high blood pressure is Now that doesn't mean you doesn't mean you should but many people find that they physical state and even real clarity of mind, and really enjoy their sufficient salt. And all it requires really ideally Himalayan or sea salt. If you want to get fancy about it, but table salt would be fine. And just drinking that in some water, maybe with lemon or lime juice bit can really stabilize one's mind, and you might also notice yearning and appetite where five minutes before eating And that has to do with a lot caused by ingesting salt In other words, sometimes but what you really need to better immediately. I'd like to mention too If you're going to explore or maybe if you already are I have no affiliation to either of these. The first is the website Circadian Clock, which is the website hosted by There are a lot of resources food intake, get information about science, the ongoing studies, et cetera. The other is the so-called Zero app. That makes it very easy to feeding window and when you're and in, so doing marking when you are or fast, where at least initiating the as we could more accurately I've used it from time to time. I don't tend to use it in an sort of used to eating at a But anytime I've shifted a few weeks ago, I started moving that protein window earlier in the day. And because that takes because I'm not used to doing that. I've been using the Zero app It logs your progress and it see how many other totally zero cost. I actually but I think they've done an excellent job. The interface is really it's available for Apple and Android, but it's at least which is the type of So check those out, My Circadian Clock. You just put that into And the Zero app, both In a moment I'd like to review feeding schedule for you and can plug into your lifestyle There are a couple of things category of frequently asked somewhat odd, but still worthy of discussion. For instance, people have asked will brushing break your fast? I think unless you're Now if you really want to glucose monitor and brush your teeth, and you can evaluate that, but no people have asked will dinner a couple hours after Absolutely. It absolutely will. And it's been demonstrated to of sugar, kind of eerie or scary effect scary and eerie, because it just seems How could it do that? But these are metabolic sensitive, post-meal, a few months back, I did an experiment wearing And I got a surprise when I sauna increases my blood It actually spikes it as high as a meal. And then it tends to drop slightly below baseline afterwards, when I talk to people about it's got to be that the getting disrupted by That's actually not the case. Turns out that when you go in a sauna, because you dehydrate, I wasn't drinking water and The concentration of sugar in And I actually put these data Twitter, and people were kind of shocked spike your blood glucose, restricted feeding, intermittent fasting. I'm not super strict about it. I use a kind of eight to 10 the day or late in the day. I saw this effect of the psychological and physical are valuable enough to me I'm just not concerned about to the extent that I'm I like to use the sauna three sleep, so I'll use it an And yes, indeed it creates this big drops based on change in the I'm just not going to worry about it, now, if you're concerned about then you might be worried it was one of those things was worthy of discussion. I thought because it was although it makes perfect sense but at the end of the day, literally, it just makes sense for Okay. So now you've You've heard a lot of and let's come up with the AKA time, restricted And when I say ideal, I mean, what are the variables What are the ones that are non-negotiable? What is ideal for you will life and what you are So, first of all, we established based on the who is truly the premier who knows the animal and human than anybody has written And for whom I consulted that you do not want to ingest emphasize at least 60 minutes you want to avoid ingesting even one gram of sugar, remember, this is the ideal one gram of for the two to three He also mentioned, ideally, you are spending eight hours in bed. I didn't tell you that but ideally you are sleeping but simply by being in bed for food after waking for an hour three hours, you're starting to build out period. Remember that the sleep important for the health feeding. Again, the sleep-related fasting is all the cellar repair processes the gut in the microbiome, in And because of the way that of the clock genes that are many other positive effects on health, including weight and fat loss. But in addition to that an eight hour feeding window best target feeding, at least And in discussing it with windows of four to six hours, tend to lead to overeating weight. One meal per day type eating but those are special cases in to a one meal per day type schedule, at least not on a regular basis. And it's not very compatible Although some people may be straightforward way, but there aren't any robust of one meal per day. So if you feel there are you as opposed to an well then by all means, use a one meal per day approach feeding window and just make window. Remember that most people tend hour feeding window, they say eight hours, but they tend to eat outside on each side, so if your goal you might want to set it to If your goal is six hours, you might want to set it And this is simply based by, I shouldn't say simply if not tens of thousands of Satchin and colleagues have collected regular placement of the eating every 24 hours is important. You don't have to be absolutely this, but you don't want it sliding it starting two hours later a couple days a week, because then you start to offset effects that have been feeding. Remember if you eat your window, but that feeding window it is effectively like It is effectively like traveling eating there for a few days you're not traveling, that's because of the the circadian clock genes. Now you can offset some of And I've talked extensively previous podcasts, but again, early morning and all day bright, light exposure as safely as not through a window, et cetera, avoiding bright light in extremely important for mood offsetting, metabolic dysfunction, et cetera, not incidentally Satchin's early work was, he was one of the three eye, the so-called melanopsin circadian clock. So he was which led him to be a pioneer When should that eight hour hour cycle? Well, let's If you really want to maximize time-restricted feeding, you need to extend the fast You would place it smack dab It would be a schedule in instance at 10:00 AM. And you An absolutely dreadful schedule have some semblance of a it's not really compatible Although some people maybe you and your family or you're eating a late breakfast or a, and then you're having a And then you have dinner at six. And then assuming that you 10:00 PM, that is going to extract related body fat related metabolic time, restricted feeding. Some people tend to fall into placing that feeding window it. Doesn't run too close to your sleep. Remember you needed a two or sleep, where you're not ingesting extract the benefits of Well then starting your ending at 8:00 PM plus or day, it seems like a perfectly people starting at 2:00 PM that schedule. Of course, you have to take into If you exercise. For instance, I like to exercise or if I do some moderate or regardless of what type of exercise it is, I have no trouble waiting until around noon or even 2:00 PM. But if I do high intensity early in the day, or if I run sprints and I do 11:00 AM, I am very, very hungry and it's hard concentrate, et cetera. Now I'm not neurotic As I mentioned before, I kind of let it expand and hour mark, and feel perfectly We're talking here in, in ideals, not in necessarily practicals, but other people find that wake up early in the day. If you're one of these people is trying to emphasize hypertrophy then it does seem that ingesting beneficial. That it can be more readily And this has been demonstrated There's another study underway. That's exploring this further really interested in hypertrophy then time-restricted feeding I mean, let's be honest. There are many people out meals per day, and they're doing that I realized that not There is an obesity crisis. Indeed. You know, the percentage of obesity disease is just cosmic through the roof, at least in this country and this country meaning the US But there are of course, people that are trying to gain to lose weight or who are performance or hypertrophy And so of course time-restricted as long as I'm awake, I'm eating. And I, you know, I tip my hat you know, provided you understand what that, that places on some of the if that's right for you, then Another thing that we can add related to time restricted disposal, agents, and or behaviors. If you find that you've eaten in which you would prefer to be fasting, that's when a 30 minute brisk eating can be beneficial, ingesting some lemon juice blood glucose somewhat. And then there are the things there, even some supplements out berberine cinnamon, which can lower blood glucose things that have a mild but berberine and Metformin disposal agents. And I mentioned earlier why you with the appropriate level dosages for you, and, and for some people, the dosages will be zero And then of course we discussed ingesting enough fluids in especially if you're using your levels of alertness, regardless of where that caffeine tea, or otherwise, that can cause the excretion kind of shakiness, a lightheadedness and the not be related to blood glucose. Some people genuinely need to eat. I certainly would not hypoglycemic to the point Certainly if you are for all people, you should consult with your major changes to diet or anything, including supplementation, but for most people maintaining blood glucose levels is going allow all the positive effects occur. And when you find that reaching window is challenging that stabilize your system and allow you to reach that And then as a final point, provided that they are consumed in low, no or modest amounts, or plant-based non sugar, non caloric sweeteners don't glucose to the extent that take you out of your fast, but that like fat fasting is highly individual, and that you're going to yourself and being able to and when you're out of a fast, at a subjective level and not your blood glucose or do beneficial. And I think if you watch for eating and post eating foods amounts, and you watch for the feelings for long periods of time or gotten sufficient sunlight not trained hard earlier you can do the most important thing, which is to start to learn, to run simple, safe experiments on your system really establish the ideal whether it be time restricted, feeding, AKA intermittent fasting, or If you're learning from and please subscribe to our YouTube us. In addition, please feel free to leave us other episodes. If you want to make suggestions or episode topics, please do that in the Please also subscribe to the and on Apple, you can leave In addition, if you're not already following there, I do brief posts about science the podcast. So that's We're also on Twitter also @hubermanlab. Recently we launched a clips Please check out our clips brief excerpts from the In addition, please check out our sponsors beginning of this episode, that's a terrific way We also have a Patreon it's And there you can support the like, during this episode. And in many other previous episodes, I discussed supplements. One issue with supplements and whole, is that the quality and amounts tremendously. Therefore we've partnered because Thorne has the of stringency with respect to the quality of ingredients matching what's on the label. If you want to see what I take supplements, you can go to Thorne, You'll see the list of You can get 20% off those. And if you enter the thorn you can get 20% off I know we covered a lot I hope you learned a lot about I hope you learned a lot about health and how when you eat is and last, but certainly not least thank science. [offbeat uplifting music]