Day 1, I still remember the night before. I'd we had no idea it would be the At just past six in the morning, I got woken up light. It felt like a giant body-slammed my bed. Good thing too, because the ceiling The entire side of my three story apartment wind as hot as an oven washed over me, I was one of the lucky ones. Anybody caught out in the street was instantly wave. I found out later that it was quirk the buildings three hundred feet north of happened to be on a slight hill about forty causing the hill to absorb most of the pressure When my hearing came back I thought about trying after a nuclear explosion, you have about ten to so I immediately grabbed what few supplies I parking garage of our apartment building. On but only four of them did. The rest were or were too busy trying to dig out buried it would soon be too late for them as well as over the city after being swept miles There was nothing we could do as the on the second basement level of our apartment I just remember finally falling Days 2-7, In my first week surviving nuclear war better. Luckily the people I was with had been as between us to survive for a week if we rationed it the food would only last about four days. Every 24 hours that you can remain danger level drops exponentially, so for at least a week to get to survivable immediately after the bomb's impact from the burned out all of our electronics, reception it would've been impossible Inside our shelter were me, my two neighbors- lived down the hall from us, Mr. and Mrs. Vasquez. us, and Mr. Vasquez was sure that shortly after distance. That confirmed it for me- whatever or a nuclear terrorist attack, the fact that attack by a modern ICBM carrying multiple Which left us with a bigger question- was a single attack? With no working radio We huddled in that basement until the flashlight that Mrs. Vasquez had brought and Days 8-12, I knew it was dangerous to ideally you want to remain in place for particles have lost most of their and Mrs. Vasquez was looking really bad. Me, two days of water rations for her despite her At this point the danger comes from inhaling exposed skin and getting into cuts, scrapes, body with radioactivity, and despite being very if you breathe in a lot of particles. We used rags and put them around our mouths and noses, When we finally dug our way out of the parking garage and into the city we The famous LA skyline was gone, only a few remained. Our neighborhood had been completely miracle that we had survived. But that also meant being so close to the point of detonation. What affected us the most though was the people who had been caught out in the left now was the remains of the people who or burned from within after inhaling vast the impact but hadn't taken proper shelter. They desperate attempt to find help or food and water. It was a sober reminder that we needed and bodies very seriously once we We decided to head out of downtown LA and was unlikely that the valley would have really much of commercial or military value emergency response site, meaning this is supplies in an emergency. It's likely this too and targeted the valley anyways, but it However, we needed water and food as we were the debris and traveled just over a mile before open. Luckily for us though there was still as well as food on the stocked shelves, The being contaminated, but to be safe we only stuff that would have had the least amount of I insisted we hunker down now that we had mark so that nearly all of the most dangerous levels. We found a garage just outside the then closed the door behind us. Then, we waited. Days 13-14, we had plundered some extra change out of our radioactive dust covered all outside openings with duct tape so that the water to carefully wash ourselves free of the and I have to admit, I was glad that Alexis to me for a few months now and I'd always people I could've gotten stranded But was it really the apocalypse, or was this China just exchanged a tit-for-tat attack and then entire world into nuclear hell. There was just we had scanned the skies looking for any sign plane or helicopter. That bothered me, but the dealing with catastrophes elsewhere. It didn't Mrs. Vasquez had been hiding her hurt foot but she came clean, showing it to us. She must've we ventured out of our shelter radioactive dust and brown, and the brown was spreading. Plus None of us wanted to say it, but radioactive debris had entered her body. Radioactivity was burning Days 15-20 Mrs. Vasquez died on day 15, just as we around outside. The group would have to get used but it hit us really hard. We'd become a small knew we were the only survivors of a city We couldn't bury Mrs. Vasquez because that so instead we sealed her inside the garage promising to come back and give The group took extra precautions against dust and died down by now it didn't mean travel was safe, last a few more days, so we had to find another of us were eager to make it to the valley and find We kept traveling east away from downtown, It was hard going though since it was Sometimes we had to climb over stacks though most of the time we were forced there was no way Mr. Vasquez was getting Days 21-22 Alexis and I had been talking a lot at night, doing everything we could for Mr. Vasquez, but he wrong with him physically, I think he was just too imagine living through a nuclear attack and then I guess maybe I too would want to give up. Alexis asked me if I'd ever leave anyone group down. I told her absolutely not. She giving it a firm squeeze. I But despite our constant encouragement, Mr. or twice that we "go on ahead" and he'd On day 22 just before setting up camp inside a around outside. When I went to investigate I something mix, and you could tell he was really we hadn't found anybody or anything else that tons of corpses from people who had died trying He was nervous, obviously he'd been alone for out people eventually won and he came over when meet him, and incredibly he was still wearing a definitely lucky to have survived the explosion Having him join us really lifted all of our smiled for the first time since his wife died. Days 23-26 Traveling from downtown to the san fernando valley traffic. It was taking us over two weeks because stop and constantly replenish our supplies. he had briefly perked up after Lucky joined our I didn't blame him, his heart was broken. I spent half a century with, but when I did try to Sometimes I caught her looking back my way too. On day 26 we met another two survivors, a as us. They had survived inside a house just had been smart enough to make Ben, her brother, shelter in place with her until after the there were other survivors still huddled up many corpses in the streets that we were sure We were glad to have more who had been feeling a little lonely since Day 27 Mr. Vasquez didn't wake up on the morning of the him, he had just... given up. It was still far best we could and said a few words, promising Days 28-32 We were moving slightly faster now, but damage in parts that we were forced to which slowed us down again. However, that's body. But this wasn't like the bodies we'd this was different, it was fresh. Maybe just a Someone had shot this person and left them to of anything valuable told us everything we come to pass, there was at last one group I suppose it was inevitable, I remember a civilization only lasts as We were now on the lookout for weapons to defend to a local gun shop that Ben knew about in it would take us a few days, but if it was Days 33-35 It took us just over three days to get to the arrived though it was clear that we weren't the news as it meant more people had survived multiple also bad news though given the evidence we had The front of the gun shop so we had to force our way in through the rear. greeted by the business end of a shotgun. A and he thought we were after him. Luckily we had gotten to the shop shortly after I didn't want to, but Alexis insisted on feeling about him, I mean it's good he didn't but there was just something off about him. My some kind of mental illness, and the nuclear He had no problem with us helping but he insisted on taking all which didn't leave much for us. Then he crawled waving away Alexis' offer for him to join us. then got embarrassed. I could tell back in the and she probably felt guilty about being relieved Lilith had some firearms experience since I had some due to a few years in the Army both of us we did our best to train Alexis, Ben, and then taught them how to shoot in an alley so there was enough for target practice on We'd thought about setting up camp at the we'd have ready access to more weapons and we knew this place existed, and the crazy old it's likely other survivors would too. And I Days 36-40 Alexis didn't like that I was trying to avoid group safe. We decided that we'd sleep in travel mostly in the latter half of the day and attention. Alexis complained about this, I could still be out there, but just as we got back That put an end to Alexis' complaints about I could tell Alexis was scared she refused to leave my side when we finally to her about the old world, reassuring her went to war with nuclear weapons. All we civilization again. That made her feel a It was weird feeling so happy but holding her hand and having her Days 41-46 Annie and I had discussed the two bodies we this time laying side by side where they'd been hunting experience, so she took point and led the way she could scout out any trouble before we were bandits out there setting up ambushes, We'd heard people in the far distance once or So it was probably an unfortunate was killing other survivors were We likely had the same idea- get to the Day 47 On day 47 we had finally reached the part Studios. We were officially in the valley, of destruction all around us, and with the explosions in downtown LA and elsewhere, most The best thing to do was to get a good view up to the top of Mulholland Drive where there to go to park their cars at night and Days 48-51 It took us three days to make the climb because armageddon hit Los Angeles, the hills had been the steep Hollywood Hills landscape. This was rocked by earthquakes, but the nuclear blasts had the houses had slid down the hills and crashed the lower portions of Mulholland Drive was like Once we got to the upper portion of problem. Here entire sections of the so we often had to find a completely different get to the back side of Mulholland Drive on a clear day. What we found made our I had been right about the enemy- whoever it federal emergency response location. You couldn't you could see the decimated ring of destruction There was a similar ring over in the direction of In between the two rings of total annihilation was miles and miles of lesser, but We set up camp as night fell so we be no help coming it seemed, so our we had to get out of the city. But where we all heard a strange noise, something Looking around, we spotted two blinking lights That's when it hit us- it'd been so long since almost forgotten what a jet engine sounded of aircraft it was, but we knew where it Our spirits soared that night and even Lucky must along to our cheering. Someone had survived. was probably just on Los Angeles, maybe one war was probably still going on. That's why the military was too busy. But the rest That night Alexis and I kissed for the civilization had survived got the better of in fact she pulled me straight into another kiss! I only wish we'd been more reserved about our else had not just seen the same airplane overhead, Days 51-56 We had a new plan- head south out of Los Angeles Diego. I was a bit concerned because there's but the fact that we saw a plane headed in that the sad truth is we didn't have many options. obliterated in a nuclear strike, and the terrain We could have headed north and tried to reach some best bet was to go somewhere the government would The way down the Hollywood Hills took us twice unsafe, but at least we were able to raid the some new camping gear in one home and replaced What was really holding us back was the fact that so we were limited on what we could Days 57-62 Getting to the 5 Freeway was an ordeal in and to get to it and passed Universal Studios and the smoking debris now since we were so close to was incredible to think that just over two stars and thousands of people all making hit Our group had gotten close in the last few really helped keep our spirits up, and with a goal the mood was generally positive- which of human remains every day. I could tell that made me feel better because I was worried Lilith Day 63 On day 63 Annie warned me that she She'd taken to scouting around us as we sometimes to one of our flanks. Other times It was when she'd been lingering behind that a few miles behind us as we set up camp for the so she didn't think it was a coincidence. Then for anyone traveling to safety in San Diego, we hadn't run into any more fresh victims She reluctantly agreed, but I could tell she wasn't convinced. Days 64-68 We were finally outside of LA county We caught sight of two more planes excitement through the group. Travel was faster outside of the main blast had leveled not just most of LA county, but the SoCal is one of the most economically especially Los Angeles, so it's obvious an enemy We picked up some bicycles from a mostly intact carry more supplies, which made life a lot easier. and we had to ride slowly most of the time were making good time. By my count, we could make Day 69 Somebody took Lilith shortly after we set to go use the bathroom and we heard then nothing. We immediately set out, but though of what she thought was at least Her old hunting skills really came to play as she but I had to stop her because my own military what could be an ambush. Annie and Alexis but I calmed them down by pointing out the fact they could've just attacked our camp. Finally, they agreed, so we waited until it followed the group from the left flank though at a Turns out though that whoever took her had through the attack and fallout I'll never know, had been tied up and then tracks that led north because my insistance that we wait until pursuit time. Maybe we could've gotten At least we had tracks to follow though. Day 70-71 It took us a day and a half of following the They had holed themselves up in a surviving strip I guess they didn't expect us to follow for like they were expecting any visitors. Now we Annie and I were the best qualified for a rescue snuck up to the edge of their little compound. secure the area because there were makeshift but there were no guards posted. Instead we one of the buildings, then suddenly the With growing pits in our stomachs, we snuck coming from. Peering in through a broken window we with a sixth figure chopping something he was chopping up- a person. That must butchered. With a sigh of relief though, we whoever was being butchered, and we guessed Annie and I came up with a plan. We were so we waited until this crew of meal and then split up. She attacked from catching them between us. Annie opened fire and then I started unloading. We dropped a pistol and taking a shot in my direction. ducked for cover, and then finished off one I immediately gave chase for the surviving troop surviving to prey on other innocents. there were more around somewhere. The survivor then I heard two gunshots, almost simultaneous, Turning the corner I found the surviving his leg. Across from him lay Ben, dead from a help when he heard the gunfire, and when the the better shot. With a roar of rage I turned Days 72-76 If there were other cannibals around, they didn't bury Ben either because of fear of contaminated cairn like our ancestors used to do. Annie was Our world had become cruel and deadly Days 77-82 The road to San Diego was harder than we expected. so there were a lot of vehicles to hurricane winds. We spotted another group and Alexis wanted to make contact with foot down and absolutely refused. Days 83-89 The freeway was now running near the beach, and Or it would have been if the beaches below washed out to sea and then right back on beaches were covered in the debris of an entire Back in LA the skies were perpetually covered created gaps in the clouds, but most of the time clouds. We all knew that trillions upon trillions in the attacks, but could there really be so much As we neared San Diego I was Day 90 We spotted another airplane overhead, this time ocean and seemed to head in the direction of San and curving back out to sea. Looking through Lilith swore that she could vaguely see the the horizon. We had to take her word for it, She'd quickly taken to learning how to and was proving to be a crack shot. Lilith Days 91-96 Progress slowed down again due to caught up in a severe storm. This is bad storms in summer time. We'd noticed slowly over the last three months as We thought about setting out rain catches I thought better of it once I saw how that the skies above were still polluted The rain came down hard for two full days, and just big puddles of sick smelling water left of convenience stores left abandoned Days 97-99 Something wasn't right. The lights from for the last two days even despite the could be the EMP blast from the attacks but I couldn't shake the gnawing feeling at the his normally happy self was looking increasingly stress. There was no denying it. San Diego had been hit explained the lack of lights or traffic coming to see it for ourselves, the skeletal remains of The group was too crushed to do anything safety in San Diego then where could That night we got our answer. Far out at sea, somewhere in the direction an aircraft carrier at sea, came a blinding after. I knew what I had just seen, but it took it to the group. Whoever had attacked the United this time destroying a carrier battle group LA hadn't been the victim of a single attack, and nuclear war hadn't destroyed the entire because it was still being waged! A half hour fire from somewhere deep inside the United disappearing into space. Nuclear intercontinental in the American heartland to strike The war was clearly on going, while everyone had we were dragging it out over weeks and even city after another got wiped off the map. What was even left?! Now go check out This is how you actually survive a nuclear attack! Or click