Leila here, welcome back to the channel. You we're diving into some Excel Time Savers. I'm people. These are features that you didn't know after you see what you have to see. So, let's not number one is Quick Jump Bookmarks. Excel doesn't but there's a cool trick you can use to achieve your larger workbooks that have so many different some specific places in this file. For example, the way down here to this more important you end up somewhere else, and then you have then scroll to get to the place that you want a bookmark for this exact location. How can you box here. This is a box that you probably look at unless you're an Excel Pro, then you're probably you can use it now as a bookmark. Just select in a name for your bookmark. So, I'm going to here, then press Enter. Now, it does help if you bookmarks start with something that you easily any tables that you might have in your workbook, and purposes as well. So, now we have a bookmark for can be anywhere in our workbook, and all we have bookmark. You can also just type in the name of to type it in, press Enter, and I jump directly which creates names in Name Manager. So, if at you're going to go to Formulas &gt; Name Manager. Delete, OK, and that bookmark is gone. A very fast. Next up is Analyze Data. This is formerly get answers from your data, and it's based on Let's say you just received this data set, right? we have Product; we have Total Sales, Units returns. Now, we quickly want to find out across an entire year. Across all time periods, we want the lowest ratings. How would you go about finding with two clicks? You just click here once, Analyze here, but this is quite a specific question. So, products with the lowest customer ratings,&quot; press 'Product'...&quot; That's the Product column &quot;...by average and it filtered it to the bottom five. So, all my answer on a separate sheet. I can adjust the Fields menu here. If I want to find out the detail I'm just going to double-click, and it's going this here is a standard PivotTable feature, but to create a PivotTable. All I had to do was go to just a click or two away. It's kind of like having Next up is One-Click Forecasting. This is a revenue data. Just imagine being able to forecast that because we're going to do it together right monthly starting from 2021 all the way to June the next year and a half. All I have to do is go to Data &gt; Forecast Sheet. That's it. My and it accounts for seasonality as well. Now, it's adjust that right here. So, for Forecast End, I it to the end of December. Now, under Options, This means that 95% of my future data points are and the upper bound right here. Seasonality is set manually as well. Now, once you're happy with what go. You have your chart with future sales data as you need to this. This is a standard Excel chart. under Chart Design. The great thing about this along with this chart. You can see the lower of your future months. So, you can also make any and it's going to reflect automatically in your Tool. This one is like having your own personal for different products, and I want to highlight really fast. What I'm going to do is press Ctrl + A, Right now, we can see all the different options this into a table if you want, add totals for sum, you want. So if I hover over this with my mouse, immediately insert with just a click of the mouse some conditional formatting, I'm going to go to you can press Tab, and then you can see how things a color scale to this, I can set and so on. All say I just want to highlight specific values. unit sold value is above 500. So, I'm going to go and adjust the color that I want to use. So, I'll custom format if you want, but I'll go with green formatting is automatically applied. Now, what if I Ctrl + A, Ctrl + Q again. You don't even have to press this little icon, this menu is going to pop up. Now, we can quickly see the monthly trend. If you just highlight. This time I'm going to go down and automatically, we get a running total added. So, and here we have the sum of January all the way February. All of these calculations and visuals Power Query. You see, Power Query is the ultimate one because I feel so strongly about it. It's It's a tool for anyone that works with data, which is practically what anyone using Excel deals the ribbon, so you already have it. And if you have to come here. You want to grab data from the to grab data from a picture, just use this, or here. Now, I have separate videos on these, but case. And if you have your data set up like this, using Power Query. So, imagine this. Imagine you file. You have monthly data, so we have the date for the first of the month for different products &quot;Give me this data in this format.&quot; Basically, you take a look at this data set, and you see, going to go about arranging the data to get it in with the name of the month and then grab the data way you're going to go about it? Or if you know than 10 clicks.&quot; Okay, so here comes click number Range. This is going to send our data to Power Go to Date. That's three clicks. Month. Name of I'm just going to select the Month column select Month Name. Six clicks. Go to Transform. have to select which column is our Values column. at eight clicks or nine clicks. I'm losing count, that's it. We've done it. Let's do our 10th click click on Close &amp; Load, and now we have our data than 10 clicks to go from here to here. How cool do, and if you want to learn it in a structured Excel Power Query: Beginner to Pro.&quot; Now, just many students we have, and I was shocked, 51,323 learning Power Query from us. I am super grateful beautiful, wonderful, very useful skill. This is of video, and it comes with a lot of bonuses, eBooks. The list of topics you can see here, best practices because it's very important to test challenges and data sets. Because we have a lot for you. This is a topic transporter where you you can quickly find the lecture that you want and for example, let's say you want to take a look at we just covered. You can just search for it, cover the Pivot Columns. Right? So here you can let's just jump up here. Let's say you come to be transported here. You just click on this, and also have subtitles for all of our videos, and stuck, you can just ask a comment. Put in your our friendly teaching assistants. Whether you these YouTube videos, just remember it's a major lot easier. So, don't miss out leveraging its into Excel time-savers. I hope these tips help you this video helpful, go ahead and hit that Like awesome content and share it with your Excel joining me today. Your support means the world to