Over 400 years, more than 12 million as part of the Today human are still profiting from the many and resort to doing it Everybody say: We are not slaves! Don't forget I'll be What can I do We want to talk to Some of our guys over My brother's been duped And this will be my second and we don't People have told us we'd I've been duped by You give them money, and We can't talk here. Take my number and call me later No problem, I'm a fisherman. I live in Nouakchott and, if Allah After 20 years of fishing, I I don't even own a house even I heard about the migration I decided to stop fishing, so I I decided to go to with the hope of As soon as I got to Nouadhibou, and offered me a job taking Son, you need to take You do. So you don't end up When you're away, he Follow your Please tell him... he's not taking As a boy, you need to be and also be here for I was born in Keidi but I I've been working It's not bad. Yes. Leave him alone. Why don't you listen? Hello? How are you? He doesn't like He prefers the one I'm not opening it. Don't open it. Don't open it. Here, take Why are you Play your own and Papa, it's To be honest, working as a fixer hasn't We still live We still live in Where's the carton Gone. All gone? Yes, they Let's make Working as a fixer seems to You think you're When you get home and consider you realize what you It's not enough money to invest in any or anything worthwhile. The last smuggling trip We put the migrants and moved them about 30 kilometers We asked them to sleep We covered them with fishing so the coast guard So if they saw our boat, they'd and not smugglers. After two days at sea, suggested throwing a I told him I He said the boat I promised to take all the I'm a fisherman, We continued the trip and the engine cut out. I went to check it and The coast guards were approaching, They told us to stay calm I said no, but they because they'd been following At that point, I realized We're ready. Stop the boat, this Please give Please take it easy, our Take it easy This is a routine check -- This is just an Hey, please don't do Don't tell us Where are Are you all Yes. Okay, go on. Coast guard. Stop the boat. Get closer. Captain. Who's the captain? Captain, Don't hit our boat. Hey, watch out. Calm down. Why should I? You're outside Back off Captain. ... Are Yes. Where are Your papers! Hey! Please Give me We're not doing anything illegal, We are not Take them Welcome to my home. Thank you. A trusted friend told us your boat is We want We depart The price is No additional No, everything's We're in business We've done The rest is in No problem. We'll pay tonight. Tonight? Yes, we'll bring Okay, no problem. No problem. We'll bring the Call before you come, and As skipper, I usually start the trip In Nouadhibou, I make sure I confirm arrangements I check the boat and make sure that Once everything is set, the migrants Once they're on board at night, we To steer clear of we sometimes move up to 70 Once we're sure that we're past the Once it's set, This is the most The route's I can't even go back if Then for two days, we battle the After two turbulent and plan on how to avoid By this time, we start and turning off the engine at intervals Hey! Throw Get up, let's go. Please sit down We've informed They should be here Right now, everything that All you need to You'll get a phone call any moment You understand If you don't get it might be due to high With me, you'll If Allah wills it. The payment covers Apart from that, the other with the date and Many thanks. We'll cross You don't One more thing: always I warn you, if you get into And there's no So keep quiet. I hope we We're here to We can count Expect my call. Hello, Praise be to God. I'm Abderahman I have a business We are fully prepared and ready, Can we meet as soon Tomorrow at the latest. Money's not a problem, just call me on this line as soon as Alright no problem, Hello. Please bring the big I need to go to Nouadhibou Quickly. I hope it's a Thanks. Do you know yet I'll be back very Where are the kids? Let me call them. Kids, come and wish Sometimes when I'm alone, because on my first trip to Europe, The guilt of leaving her alone worried me a lot. But since then, I made and the best thing is to finish and That decision was very difficult I just live I'll be back If Allah wills it. Take care of yourself Safe journey. Okay. Bye bye. Your name, please? Sit properly. What's your name? Mado. Sorry? Mado. Mado. Second name? Mado? Nakour. Name, please? Ibrahim Dembele. Ibrahim Dembele. Thank you, and There are still more people to How are Very tired. You want to We're very hungry, Yes, we are hungry. Do you understand the It takes you a least five You would have died in that if your boat hadn't Look at how tired you are, you wouldn't Seriously, you wouldn't you would have Do you understand how dangerous This ambulance can We need to bring another Yeah, hello Mister Abderahman, how are See you soon. What's your plan? What should I don't know what As I told you, I'm Three of my people and You'll get money and I'll keep the money If I agree, I don't need No, you How much? If you can pay me 2000 This is where we have a problem It's a fair price. It's a lot I won't have enough It's not too much. If I give you what you But I can give you two and I'll keep the fare It's not I have to pay so the marabouts, the Let's make it We don't need to waste time Please accept my offer. Listen to me, I'm I have my reasons for It's not just for money but Many of your colleagues call because I Thank's for Please understand, you left everything Don't let one passenger I'll let you have You can ask them to pay you any I'll pay you your money One... Two... Three... Is that all? Yes, that's it all. Let's get ready Everything's been sorted, and you'll If Allah wills it, Like I've told you guys The boat is You'll go out in groups of five Don't push anyone, No one's allowed We'll get there, Right now, you because it looks like you're How many days will Don't worry about all that now, if Allah wills it. As a good skipper, my duty is to by God's grace, Spain, here No need to worry. We'll stick And remember the I hope you didn't eat anything