Translator: Jeesun Youn About a year ago, I asked a simple computer programming puzzle The object of the puzzle by arranging these code blocks that represent typical such as if-else statements Once you thought you and your car would move based on I asked my YouTube followers to play it that anyone from any background Fifty thousand of them took the challenge But the truth was that I didn't actually care about proving What they didn't know two slightly different In one version, if you hit Run you didn't lose any We showed you this message. [Please try again.] However, in the other version, if you hit Run and again we showed this slightly different message, stating that you lost five points That was the only difference. In one version, if you failed, we simply took away no-one-will-ever-see-these, completely meaningless, (Laughter) That minor difference for the results I'm about to show you For those who were penalized their success rate was around 52%. For those who were not penalized, That statistically significant delta and almost seemed too hard to believe until we looked at another piece which was attempts to solve It's shown in orange right here. So, those who didn't see failing nearly had two and a half times As a result, naturally, they saw So if you think about that the trick to learning more is finding the right way And this observation It made me wonder, What if you just frame that you did not concern how much more successful could you be, The next thought clearly there must be some evidence It made me think of toddlers. That's my boy; I helped make that. (Laughter) They are constantly trying new things, and they certainly When my son learned to walk, he didn't think about how dumb and as his parents, we didn't punish him The focus was always on the end goal, As a result of constantly and discovering new things we discover so many more and it's not even close But maybe using a toddler because their brains To make the case that perhaps I'd like to tell you about a plumber He was Italian. (Power up sound effect) (Laughter) When Super Mario Bros. came out, like, we wanted to get to the castle from the evil Bowser. We'd get to school and ask each other, &quot;Dude, what level did you make it to? We never asked each other about details on When it comes to games like this, no one ever picks up the controller and then after jumping into a pit thinks, &quot;I am so ashamed; and they never want to try again, right? What really happens is they think, next time, I'm going to come out and jump a bit later.&quot; The focus and the obsession not how dumb you might look And as a direct result of that attitude of learning from but not being we got really good, and we learned a ton We were the right side of this graph. This is what I call focusing on the princess and not the pits This caused me to reflect and realize from my own personal experience this Super Mario Effect led to more I have a science YouTube channel where I will sometimes use to build things such as or the Guinness World Record (Video) (Screaming) (Audience) (Laughter) (On stage) Mark Rober: (Video) MR: Ha, ha, ha. Yes! (On stage) MR: Fashioned (Audience) (Laughter) That's my niece. Those are my nephews. (Laughter) I haven't quite figured it out, but when it comes to me, their uncle, (Laughter) So, these builds usually take me but there was one Basically, I wanted to make a dartboard The idea was that if you throw a dart, and then we'd move the board (Laughter) And so, once we did the math, we realized for a typical, like, game of darts, we would basically have in the same amount of time No big deal, right? I'm not going to bore you and the failures and the setbacks from a lot of metaphorical and those pesky Hammerhead Bros, but eventually we figured out it would take something which is six stepper motors a Vicon motion capture system and just a ton of tweaking But finally, eventually, we arrived here. (Applause) What's interesting is like, I can honestly say was the same attitude I had toward, Like, of course, each failure But it was no different and you're like, &quot;Argh,&quot; It was always like, &quot;OK, that sucked, What can we do next for it? And this concept of life gamification is more than just, like, or &quot;Never give up&quot; because those sort of imply you're having to endure I feel like when you frame a challenge in the way I'm describing, you actually want to do it. It feels natural to ignore in the same way a toddler will want or in the same way you want or in the same way the group on the right two and a half times longer. They weren't getting paid to do that. Nobody was forcing them or watching them. It was just them on their computer, Their outlook made it so they The icing on the cake for the dartboard was I took it on Jimmy Kimmel I'll just set this clip up The first is we also where if your buddy had it the board would move the other way. (Laughter) And the second is that we couldn't get and it was just barely I get up to stand in the elevator, which is the door that moves up I look to the right, So my buddy John is feverishly, as I'm going out onto stage knowing this, and I work up to the dartboard So just keep that in mind Like, that's where my headspace is. Three freaking years, (Video) MR: What you're going to do and you're going to challenge him Jimmy Kimmel: Just try (Laughter) MR: Alright, hot shot. Double or nothing? JK: Alright, yeah, yeah, alright. Ready? (Laughter) OK. MR: Alright. And so, then I step up here. MR: That's right. MR: That's right. I step up. Here we go. (Cheers) (Applause) (On stage) MR: Fake it till you make it. (Laughter) I will say, in all of our testing, literally, we never as much as that one right there. So, like, after that, I'm like, &quot;I'm so done with it.&quot; (Laughter) And I really believe that if you reframe, it can make all the difference. I have a simple thought experiment Let's say I gave you a test and it had instructions on it and to do that, it had And the instructions would say something and then, &quot;Push button 6 for 1 second,&quot; then, &quot;Push buttons 3 and 5 And unless you carried out you couldn't see How much would I have to pay you Now suppose I change and I rotated this, and for the input device, and I gave it a cool paint job and maybe different button styles. And then instead of using words, I represented the tasks you needed Note the output is the exact same: you have to push these buttons to move on to the next page Now picture it's 1986. How much would you pay me If you have a very bad imagination, I know. I was there. (Video) Boy: Nintendo! (Crying) Oh, Dad, thank you. Thank you! Dad: Don't come and hug me, Boy: (Crying) (Audience) (Laughter) (On stage) MR: That has to be (Laughter) So, as a science YouTuber, sometimes I feel people in a negative way. It's been taught poorly, It feels something more like this. And my approach is to take the same and to try and sort of trick you into learning something basically to go from this to this. So for example, in this video, And this is another one of my nephews (Laughter) I explain in the video and then we talk and how it makes the whole thing work, and I use several examples, like, you know, the blow-dryer I like to think my approach to science is So, I get people to come in with something and then when they least expect it - (Video) (Music) (Growling) Robert Muldoon: Clever girl. (On stage) MR: Admittedly, right there at the end. But by reframing the learning process the fear of failure and learning just comes more naturally. I'll close with this thought. Someone came up with this cartoon, This is so true, but often in life we tell ourselves that's what we expect. But then something happens. Maybe it's a really bad grade on a test or a meeting with a client Maybe it's a bad breakup. Maybe we miss a wide-open shot. Some kind of green shell hits you. And so, at that first setback We tell ourselves we're not good enough And yet, if the bottom rectangle here and you have to get your bike it's not, &quot;Oh, I hit these rocks. I'm not good enough,&quot; You see that flag to the right, and you're like, OK, next time, I'm going and lift the front of my bike up.&quot; You want to try it again. You're immediately excited We sort of tell ourselves we want our life's challenges but that's boring. If that were a real video game and that went out to the market, it would be a total failure. Nobody would buy it. Where's the risk and the reward? There's no feeling of satisfaction. The bottom picture is real life, Think about anything whether it's a degree, a relationship with a friend maybe a professional accomplishment. I can guarantee you it came and not the top: failing and failing and failing to the point that it now holds value, just like the most meaningful high-fives &quot;Dude, I finally beat Bowser last night.&quot; I feel like a lot have come down to the Super Mario Effect, and while framing challenges of course, results may vary. Everyone is going to be different, and I don't know exactly what it and map it into your life. But if we got these very real results from a very different cross-section clearly I'm not alone. There's some universal By shifting your focus to the princess and treating your life's challenges you can trick your brain and see more success. Thank you. (Applause)