This is a printout of the US Constitution. It's over 200 years old, to be the greatest political document ever written. But is it really? There is currently a crisis of U.S. democracy. In 1964, 77% of Americans had trust in the American government. Today, that's only 22%. Only 4% of Americans today say that the political system "works well". In the Economist Democracy Index, the U.S. has been downgraded from a full democracy to a flawed democracy. And four out of ten Biden voters and half of Trump voters somewhat agree that it would be best to split the United States into red and blue states. So it seems obvious that US democracy is in crisis. But what does that have to do with the US Constitution? Well, what I will show you in this essay is the crisis of U.S. democracy is caused by a number of fundamental flaws in this 200 year old document. Article two, Section one of the U.S. Constitution contains one of the world's most important rules, namely the rule for how the world's richest and most powerful country decides who will be president and commander in chief. So a core principle of democracy is majority rule. The party or the candidate who gets the most votes gets to govern to reflect the will of the people. But this is not how the US Constitution decides who gets to be president. According to the Constitution, it's who wins, but instead the candidate so-called electors from the states. And for reasons that I will soon explain, this electoral system can absurdly make the loser candidate who gets fewer votes into the winner, effectively replacing majority rule with minority rule. In the 2000 election, the Democrat Al Gore got half a million more votes than George W Bush, yet George W Bush got more electors and therefore became president. In the 2006 election, the Democrat, Hillary Clinton got almost 3 million more votes than Donald Trump. Yet Donald Trump got more electors and became president anyways. In other words, just after the turn of the millennium, it's happened twice that the candidate who got the most votes lost. And it's actually been very close to happening two more times recently. So in the 2004 election, George Bush got 3 million more votes than John Kerry. But if less than 60,000 votes would have been different in the state of Ohio, then John Kerry would have become president anyway. And in 2020, Joe Biden got 7 million more votes than Donald Trump. But if just 42,921 votes in Arizona, Georgia and Wisconsin would have changed, then Donald Trump would have won anyways. So why can this happen? Well, mainly because the US Constitution gives smaller states a large number of electors. Wyoming, a state of around half a million people, has three electors, which is one elector per 195,000 people. California, on the other hand, inhabitants, has 54 electors, 720,000 people. Put differently, a Wyoming vote is worth almost four California votes. As if that was not enough. Many states also have so-called winner take all rules, which magnifies the unfairness. Here's an example of that. So Wisconsin and Maryland, both have ten electoral votes that presidential candidates compete for. And in 2016, Hillary Clinton won Maryland with a huge 26 point margin and thereby secured Maryland's ten electors. Meanwhile, Donald Trump won Wisconsin, but in a really tight race where he got less than 1% more votes than Clinton. But despite the tight victory, he also got all of Wisconsin's ten electors. So regardless of how small you get all the electors. The result of all of this, ad this is truly absurd, is that it is possible, in theory, by receiving as little as 23% of the popular vote. Article one Section three of the Constitution sets out that the US Senate, which is the most powerful wing of Congress, shall have two senators from each state regardless of how big each state is. So when the Constitution was written in 1787, the difference between the most popular state in the USA, Virginia and the least populous states, Delaware was about 9 to 1. Today, the difference in population California, and the least populous state, Wyoming, is 68 to 1. In other words, small states were undemocratically overrepresented in the Senate already from the beginning. But this overrepresentation has gotten way worse. So during the last session of Congress, there were 50 Democratic senators or 50 Republican senators. But the 50 Democratic senators represented 42 million voters, more than the 50 Republican senators. And this absurdity got even more absurd when the filibuster was introduced in 1970. The filibuster is a ridiculous procedural rule that makes it possible for a small minority of senators This enables senators than 25% of the population to block virtually any legislation. According to Article five it's not possible to change the Constitution unless two thirds of both houses of Congress and three quarters of the states approve. This is obviously extremely difficult to achieve. To be clear, most people, myself included, agree that a constitution should be more difficult to change than other laws. But the US Constitution is so difficult to change that during the last 200 years it's been changed only 15 times, Even when overwhelming it is sometimes almost impossible As an example, 70% of Americans control laws are more important Yet it has been impossible to introduce because the Second Amendment has been interpreted to prevent that. Similarly, 72% of Americans want to limit money in politics. Yet the First Amendment of the Constitution has been interpreted to prevent many campaign finance laws. Thus, in order to implement stricter gun laws or to limit money in politics, the Constitution would need to be changed. But because the founders made it nearly impossible to do so, reforms majority of the American people cannot be implemented. According to Article three, Section judges of the U.S. Supreme Court shall, during good behavior, serve for life. Once you're on the court, you can stay there until you die. So why did the founders want judges Well, they believed that if judges can't lose their jobs, then they will be more independent to political pressures or political opinion. The founders did recognize, however, that judges appointed for life even after But since the founders, in the words that the Supreme Court dangerous branch of government with no influence over the founders opted for lifetime tenure despite the risks. However, today it seems obvious that the Founding Fathers fundamental underestimated and its judges would end up wielding. In the breathtaking 1803 case Marbury versus Madison, the case that to this day is studied by constitutional law students the Supreme Court gave itself the awesome power to declare laws In the words of Chief Justice It is emphatically the providence and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is. And because the Constitution the Supreme Court's power to declare laws immense power on the court, power that today neither Congress can properly countervail There are plenty of examples has wielded this immense power. In Bush v Gore, the court effectively decided by halting a vote recount in Florida, leading to George W Bush's victory. And through its decisions in Buckley, the Supreme Court, in my opinion, effectively ushered America into the neoliberal era to spend unlimited amounts of money in U.S. elections In Dobbs, the court overturned Roe v Wade, eliminating the constitutional rights So in issue after issue, it's not the American people or their elected representatives, but the nine judges of the Supreme Court who have the final say. As the famous legal scholar Alexander Bickel once commented, the least dangerous is the most extraordinarily the world has ever known. In light of this immense power it's clear to me that the founders decision to allow judges to serve for life was a mistake, a mistake that has compounded as life from around 38 years to around 78 years today. So from the Constitution was written until 1970, the average tenure on the court was 15 years. And even that is arguably a long time But for the justices the average tenure was 27 years, and it's getting longer. When Clarence Thomas was confirmed as a Supreme Court justice in 1991 he was 43 years old. the age at which Justice then Clarence 47 years. So with the Supreme Court, the founders put far too much power in the hands of too few people for far too long. So 23% of the popular vote can choose the president representing 25% of the people can halt legislation. And not even a majority of the population can change the Constitution. And nine judges who sit for life can declare any law unconstitutional. The common thread among these four flaws is that they enable a minority to rule over the majority. As constitutional scholar Erwin Chemerinsky has noted. The United States that chooses its chief executive this way, where a person who loses the popular vote can be chosen. In his book, "No Democracy Lasts Forever" professor Chemerinsky of the Constitution have led to the current crisis of US democracy. He also shows how the Constitution's of slavery continues to haunt racial relations in the US. So to me, the US Constitution is a bit like the high-wheeler bicycle. It was revolutionary when it first that a bicycle with equal sized tires is safer and more efficient, they stopped using high-wheelers. And the US Constitution, like the high-wheeler was revolutionary But it has foundational flaws and no longer meets So perhaps it's time for the people of the United States to get a new bicycle. My name is Andres Acevedo and this is my YouTube-channel The Market Exit I want to make it more video essays Thank you for watching it, by the way. But for that to be possible, The simplest way to support me and to share this video with your family, And if you really like what I do, I invite you to become a patron: patreon.com/themarketexit Any amount helps. And to my existing patrons: Thank you very much. I am deeply grateful for the support. So why did I make this essay? Well, I have been thinking ever since I took a course on comparative And when I recently read "No Democracy Last Forever" I finally got the inspiration So I am a Swedish citizen. Why should I have opinions about the U.S. Constitution? Well, are governed obviously affects the future So humanity has a long list of challenges ahead. Challenges that we won't be able to solve unless the superpowers So that's why the flawed US Constitution isn't just a problem It is a problem for all of us. I should say than one week before the 2024 U.S. presidential election. If you want to dive deeper into what I've talked about in this video, Professor Chemerinsky book, It's a really well-written that obviously talks about a lot that I've discussed in this video essay. All right,