coming up in today's food Adventure... here! have some baijiu! I'm back in the city I used to call home, Beijing. The capital of China for the last 700 years. so it are some pretty old restaurants you can eat at day I'll eat only at restaurants that are at video I ate old school Beijing Cuisine so you don't ready to see me not really love most of the snacks and as always don't forget to subscribe. adventure and I am back in Beijing, one of my second home to me. and it's my absolute favorite very short window of time where the Ginko trees it's just a magical time here in Beijing for me. I'm going to be challenging myself for an entire years old. but the thing is it's actually not that within the second ring road. if you see a map roads, and what's behind me here is actually the of the old city walls. so the city walls they're no the second ring road on the map represents the find places like the Forbidden City, jingshan Park, like network of Hutongs, and of course countless old this City's most historic Cuisine. so without we're heading to a place with almost 150 years of from the second ring road. we have arrived at our Men Kuang Hutong Bai Nian Luzhu. it was established in I believe 1876, entire city to get a dish called Luzhu. so Luzhu can be it all stewing away in this massive pot behind order, so to begin he'll first cut up some bread in that pot for hours, then he'll cut up some tofu form of large intestine, cut into bite-sized pieces, saucepan of soup from the stew that's poured on coriander and there we have it, Luzhu. I am so excited city's most important dishes and it's actually even though I lived here for years and years and in Sydney which is kind of random. there's a to, we tried it. It's prepared in a slightly different kind of a different format here, of course you with all the ingredients inside. and the reason why behind it. so this dish originated in The Qing served to the emperor but in that version there most affordable ingredient. so the populace wanted eating so they altered the dish, instead put the the offcuts of meat and that's I keep coming across people who are saying some people cannot accept it, but for me the quite garlicky as well, I mean he's put a whole smell of the the offal inside but it's not too wait to try this. it's a chilly morning, this looks broth. I knew from the look of the soup that it whenever you pick up a spoonful of soup and you to be packing quite a flavor punch. and it does. in taste. it's got this intense meatiness to it, it's that out nicely and talking of balance, this is in there as well which really lifts the flavor. and we've tried the broth, now let's try some of these which I believe is large intestine. nice texture. things for me, it's either I love it or I hate it. too chewy. it it breaks apart quite easily in my of large intestine that just will not break down in much of an aftertaste, and yeah it just has soaked and intense I'm starting to feel worried about how is really really strong, rich and hearty. Now I lung. Very soft. it's pretty much the texture of slightest bit of an aftertaste. nothing too intense. loving that tofu. and now actually the part I am and finding some of that soaked up bread. slippery so interesting because the bread even though I for what I can only assume as hours and hours, it almost like glutinous in texture actually. it's the bread has kept its Integrity. uh it's a good. it's definitely for someone with a Zhong Kou Wei zhong kouwei (a strong flavor palette), I fear for those who come from the south and have this a bigger group of people. there was this he came over to have a little chat. after which I have missed Beijing so much. people are so when I lived here in the hutongs, they just embraced and like, just I'm just some random foreigner eating of their alcohol. I mean it's it's 10:49 and goes really well with Luzhu so that's exactly say? Ru Xiang Sui Su (ru xiang sui su), when in Beijing, do as the Beijingers I mean she's not wrong. it does go well. it's just such a strong flavor. wow it's well this has been an awesome start to our food our next Food stop which is just right down insta 360 X4 it's the new generation of the X love so so much. it is always in my camera bag. may be asking yourselves, &quot;Amy, why do I need a 360deg you. so reason number one, because this is actually camera like so, press record and I can choose after I'm editing the insta 360 footage and I want to I can choose absolutely any angle in the world to look at the sky? do I want to look at the ground? to look at myself. secondly, really cool feature or I can zoom all the way in. another really cool vertical footage. no problem. just go up a vertical picture for short video platforms. but I'm making this video for YouTube. I'm going going to play the video. nice, I like it. but then to the front so people can see where exactly I'm front, add a key frame, and now check out the final recording capability, it actually has the power to shots like this, and like this, and even like this. as your personal videographer. people are always took that video?' it's me! I did. and that's so cool. new model of the X Series it is actually 8K better reframing, and editing this video together everything is. this is going to be an absolute insta 360 X4 to explore old Beijing today as city's most historic food. behold! stop number two. restaurant that we will go to in this video. I mean construction going on but the restaurant behind me called Liu Quan Ju Fan Zhuang liu quan ju fan zhuang, and it was established during the reign of it's way too early for that. I'm still digesting that here for a little snack, because even though their of soy sauce, heavy, Rich Cuisine, the item I'm item on their online menu, people are raving about there is actually their own little window restaurant itself, head around the corner. I mean have stumbled across the windows. since I'm pretty just one bun which cost me 4.5 RMB. let's see what question. look, I just want to show you, this is it at the top there. we are going to try it. open one. they have not been it tastes. wow. it's really on that line of is this it out. there's really... I don't even know if there maybe it's slightly leaning towards the sweet side. red bean. I've been thinking about it and I've truly appreciate this once it chooses its Lane. put some sugar on this or some honey or something definitely puts it in the sweets category. or on hot sauce on there and make it into like, I don't would also be fire. in this form I just don't know to be honest. okay now it's time to build some road for about 30 minutes which will take me to in the times of the emperors, entry to this park and his family, but about 100 years ago in 1925 have to pay a ticket for entry it's only 5RMB for the privilege to enter a place Emperors. I used to come to this park all the during Covid times so there were also not so many would come to this park and pretty much any other City and jingshan park, it would just be me and it just felt it was just me, and now it's Monday weird because my memory of Beijing for some reason it's like a major tourist City. and the cool thing Beihai Park itself. behind me here is a very very located within Beihai Park itself. it's the most because we have that special season with the Gingko over here as we speak. I mean I wish I Let's have our own photo shoot. so the cool is it takes a 360deg snapshot so you can snap and anyway as I was saying, very important restaurant Imperial Cuisine' which is exactly what's going on The Qing Imperial Kitchen. literally someone who so for that reason I am making an exception for years old but the food that's being served inside place definitely warrants a mention in our video decadence. for example all the yellow you can see only for the emperor. only he could wear it or you can see here. the tableware here is also very China's porcelain capital, and it's the same as the looking at this menu is an imperial experience in will have at one time been served to the emperor. literally means, the the cuisine that was served to by a rigorous selection of ingredients, attention I've heard there's actually over 800 dishes Imperial cuisine in general. so in one week the once and at every single meal there would be kicker, the emperor wasn't allowed to eat more logic goes, I mean we all know it, the the way to the same principle I guess. you know, you didn't his favorite food perhaps. so yeah, three bite rule. be eating everything that I order. the first dish teeny tiny. this is yun dou juan Yun Dou Juan , literally 'kidney bean roll'. kidney beans, and it was a favorite dish of the track record when it comes to trying dishes that one in particular that is probably one of my it's actually the number 1 dish that they so I decided to go for something something in the I haven't tried before. so this one is actually from peas. and the thing I don't like about the not really sweet. actually it's so not sweet that dad he thought that it would taste really good improved The Taste. oh yeah that's it. anyway, not little bit more. but in any case it's just by all this yellow color that if I was sitting I'd probably be executed. and eating foods that the such a cool way to explore history through food. the empress right now. let's try this. Empress Dowager Cixi, first impression is that it reminds me a lot the thing that reminds me of the wandouhuang is texture. the sugar inside definitely does help to than the wandouhuang, but it's not by much. hello there after I filmed the 100 plus year old Beijing this video is really really perfect because in fact in the complex that belonged to cixi. I'm hosting some group tours at the moment and we've been traveling and eating our way there will definitely be more tours and trips when I start offering more of them. anyway this learning a lot about her, and she's a fascinating a concubine of the emperor. she through several she worked her way up, she managed to get pregnant Emperor actually produced. and then over time and had basically control of the country for 40 interesting fact about why she liked snacks what a cool piece of food history! but about the dish. let's see if I like our next dish baked bread, and it's another favorite of the it a big deal. so The Story Goes that she had a buns. and she woke up in the morning and her Chef was very similar to what she ate in her dream. this dish remains and is actually one of the most what we have to do is we've got a little knife the rolls are still a little bit warm, and then we a very good Empress. this one is a thumbs up from nice and soft and what I really like is on top you seeds. which really give it a nice fragrance. slices of bread, it's never a bad idea. what a a the legs, and start heading in the direction of it's a little bit of a distance to get to it so bike and Vlog this journey that will get us south so apparently this way is a no go. around, but it is the scenic route. that way is entrance, if you know what I'm saying. why did for a bike ride. this is another area I would walk very good at taking my eye off where I'm going yourself but if you look to the right you will going to take you off-road so you can get a here. it's absolutely gorgeous, this is the moat pretty is it! and fun fact the soil that they dug over there and built jingshan Hill. so it's not a fake. Beijing is a very flat City. let's get back is about to make you hella nervous. to our right left is the gate to Jingshan Park. Moment of Truth, get us to Qianmen Qian Men which is where our next stop can go. how beautiful is this road! see on the wedding pictures taken here in Beijing. anyway now directly next to the Forbidden City for about well you can't really get closer than this. so walking street right on the central axis that has the old city of Beijing. basically every store on one is like a 100 plus year old hat shop. there's a store, silk store, the list goes on. since the eighth Dynasty. wow okay so this is what a very very of modern. doesn't look too old. oh they even have And I cannot make a video about beijing's old restaurants and until the 1700s it had no name, and the person actually the Qianlong emperor himself. he was coming palace, he saw this restaurant, he ate here, he liked is so crazy. it was opened 1738. like it blows I've ever seen in my life there, would very much actually eating somewhere a little bit outside of there that I've been wanting to try for a while. which means the eight big restaurants, and all of The reason for that is back in the day in the food that was eaten by the emperor was actually of the Ba Da Lou, and it's only one of three still on the sign there. it's called Zhi Mei Lou, it's a very super popular because it did its best to replicate their star dish here and the dish I'll be ordering heard it's quite an intense dish to make so it I have to say it looks gorgeous. on the top left basically sweet and sour deep fried fish, then followed by fish slices in rice wine. the one at the corner, Song Shu Yu song shu yu, which is one of my favorite fish got sweet and sour sauce on it and this one looks a bit different to other song shu yu I've had it almost tastes like Heinz ketchup on top of that to be honest. I don't know if I'm allowed to say restaurant, but it's a little disappointing. let's it's really light and crunchy. The taste itself salt here, this dipping salt, and that wow it is very starchy. look at this. it's very isn't really to my taste and that sauce is just last but not least let's try this fish head. ooh that sauce is just so starchy. the fish is nice, like all of these, except for this deep fried one a little bit too sickly sweet for me. I've had shao (soy braised) concept but never have I had one that just a taste profile that I'm not used to or replicate is not really to my taste, but I have I've had Shandong Cuisine it's more on the salty expecting. this is definitely super super sweet. I lie to you guys, but I don't know if I'm actually title this video 'I ate old school Beijing Cuisine biggest fan of a lot of the food today. you know time we're talking about. this is old school food, all different, but yeah at the end of the day my favorite dish of the day was the luzhu. which funnily enough was the only dish of the day eaten by the emperor his Royal Court or rich what the Royals were eating at restaurants like good Empress because I'm not sure if I would have cool to experience, I have no regrets, I've tried I have definitely definitely enjoyed is using checked out some of the footage on my phone and to play around with it more, but if you'd like one for yourself you can check out the link in my until the 4th of December for Black Friday sales, week on my channel! as always don't forget to like