How can you make a chip better by making it worse? the height of cells and the question, transistors just don't get smaller anymore. is one of the reasons why modern chips still nodes struggle to keep up with Moore's Law. technology. Especially when it comes to form of TSMCs FinFlex. A technology that Lets take a look at the tricks of modern behind TSMCs FinFlex. Which I promise, you will In order to figure out what fin and why it's so important for Moore's Law, but very important concepts of semiconductors. transistors. At the most basic level, a transistor of current between two areas, called enabled by physically placing a so called &quot;gate&quot; it emits a electric field that affects the Now you might ask yourself, when does the current off? Does the electric field stop the flow of the it depends. There are actually two different Since we are talking about electricity, &quot;N&quot; A N-type, or NMOS transistor, uses n-type material while the body of the transistor is made apply a positive voltage to the gate, it emmits a source and drain, which then forms a channel material. If you turn the gate off, the electric A P-type, or PMOS transistor, uses p-type body of the transistor. A PMOS transistor works which repells the electron holes in the and drain regions to form a channel. they just function in electrically opposite voltage to be turned on, a PMOS transistor have their own advantages and disadvantages. NMOS For a while, NMOS and PMOS transistors fought over Today, almost all semiconductors use so called complementary. CMOS is a transistor type which really just two transistors next to each other. speed for high performance and energy efficiency. because they are quiet literally made only one. That's the first concept we need to The second concept we have to understand in the actual fins that are being depopulated. PMOS and CMOS, we've talked about the But there's another aspect to a transistor: are manufactured. Up until around 10 years ago, and fittingly called planar transistors. In between source and drain and the electric But this 2D approach has a big flaw. If you in order to increase transistor density, which you have to shrink the size of all its components. closer and closer to each other and at the same point, source and drain are physically so close can control the flow of the current anymore. So and the electrons just do whatever they want, planar transistor couldn't scale any further. transistor, called a FinFET. In FinFETs, source, structures. This means the gate wraps around the which allows the electric field of the gate 3D fin-based transistors enable stronger gates, so negative short channel effects. Which means If we look at the cross-section of a FinFET, we transistor, as the fins are build upwards from they look somewhat like the fin of a fish. And their structure and height started to improve we can see Intel's first 22nm FinFET node already shows a great improvement and the 10nm But this isn't just for show, there's a reason generation. In a FinFET, the height of the transistors conductive strength. the transistor can transport more current. So with only got smaller, as in they were more tightly Right now we are at the cusp of new generation talked about it in detail in my last video, we are not quiet there yet. Almost all with TSMCs N3 process node family being the most fin-based transistors is important to improve So far, we have covered two of the three basic fin depopulation is and how FinFlex works. We meaning they combine a NMOS and a PMOS are build as so called FinFETs, with elevated the conductive performance of the transistor. these transistors are combined to actually serve doesn't do anything besides turning on and off. If you want to build a chip, lets you need to create structures that can and much more. That's where the so called logic the form of voltage and produces an output, also which work with voltages as in- and output. manner. For example, a logic gate might have as in the same voltage, there is an output. If the This logic gate could be used to check if outputs There are many different types of logic gates. OR, NOT-AND (which is also called NAND) and many how they work in order to understand FinFlex. diagram, but in order to do actual work, they have the CMOS FinFET transistors come in. Based transistors are combined in such a way, that the electrical drawing. For example, only generate Let's get back to our chip design example. means we need to combine a lot of different so that these combined logic gates can actually because we don't have to worry about creating Our foundry partner, such as TSMC, Samsung When you design a chip on a specific process node, variety of different logic gates for you to use. I mean real world implementations based selected. They are all part of the process node cells&quot;. There are so many of them that there talks about libraries related to process nodes, a huge library of pre-designed logic gates to guessing that's why foundries are so expensive. foundry partner already pre-designed every logic they also offer different versions of the why would they do that? What's the use for Every time I'm approaching a complex topic in by looking back in time. It's often easier to 20 or even 30 years ago. A fantastic resource only highly recommend, but it also provides the different implementations of the same logic gate. engineering a Intel 386 processor from 1985, standard cell approach. Let's take a look Like every CPU, Intel's 386 also made heavy use extra mile and produced high-res die shots, of the NAND standard cells inside the 386. As as it uses both NMOS and PMOS transistors. able to perform a NAND logic operation, But there's more. The Intel 386 also implemented All three cell types perform the same function. characteristics. The small NAND cell uses the but each transistor is smaller. The gates are NAND cell, which reduces the output current. same function as both the normal and Ken Shirriff notes that it's essentially two the large cell to provide double the current. implemented in the form of different standard and density characteristics. Smaller cells but also provide lower current. Larger cells and need more space. It's always a trade off. different versions of the same logic gates is clock speed and current requirements. If we are performance CPU cores, we want to select the high switching speeds. Our low power efficiency we save power and silicon area at the same time. best suited for the half-size cells, because we we had infinite die space available, using power consumption, something we want to avoid. to use, we have to place them on the chip next. there's always rules to follow. Standard which is exactly what it sounds like: a row of these rows combined form a so called logic block. start with the smallest parts, transistors, used to create standard cells, which go into logic blocks combined create a chip. Actually Now we have all the ingredients. We know that that current gen transistors are build with then used to design various types of standard And the standard cell is exactly where &quot;fin Remember the reverse engineered Intel 386 from it was long before the invention of Today, standard cells are based on FinFET just have a single fin, they usually come transistor. The reason for that is performance, early FinFET nodes didn't have very pronounced the required transistor performance. And since we are talking about CMOS the actual number of fins is doubled. Now we per CMOS FinFET. That's a lot of fins. And these but because these fins are sitting next to each In the past, FinFET process node scaling was how close the individual fins are to each how close the gates are too each other. If we can see that Fin and Gate Pitch are related we can pack more transistors into the same When it comes to the size of cells, the most important variable is the&quot;cell height&quot;. because unlike transistor height for FinFETs, going upwards from the silicon wafer. Instead, the cell from above. In this view, cell &quot;height&quot; is reduces the length of the cell and thus its area. process nodes are not able to achieve significant where fin depopulation comes in. On the left process node used for Alder Lake and Raptor Lake with PMOS transistors on top and NMOS each area is using a 4-fin implementation. Now let's compare that to a cell from Intel's first EUV node and it's used As you can see, the Intel 4 cell is and that's due to multiple factors. First of the P- and NMOS areas of the cell. Next, Intel the node still does some traditional scaling. But Instead of four fins, the Intel 4 based standard a CMOS transistor, both P- and NMOS transistors left has 8 fins, while the Intel 4 cell on area isn't due to shrinking features with based on removing features. The fins are being But it doesn't have to negatively affect the height of the fin is proportional to its transistor based on Intel 4 could offer a better if the increased fin height adds more conductive This example is based on a Intel node, but no matter if TSMC, Samsung or any other designs with four or even more fins were the usually reserved for high-performance cells, while And 1-fin cells are not too far away. That's why increase in transistor density. Because once the foundries started to reduce the amount of Modern FinFET process nodes are intentionally to the performance of the transistors. But fins can somewhat compensate the removal, the result of a worse transistor is a better fins. Because just like scaling the planar fins to remove. You will always need at least Now that we know what fin depopulation achieves - what about FinFlex? TSMC has at the same time, many people still At its core, FinFlex is a type of fin that normal fin depopulation techniques hence the name. To understand the difference, how they are placed. And here Ken Shirriff's As I mentioned before, we can't just place library anywhere we want. We have to follow that standard cells are always placed in rows. just different cells next to each other. On the cell rows with our bare eyes. The combination But not only do we have to place our cells in guideline: only cells with the same cell height applies to the whole logic block. Remember, the length of a cell and not its actual height. it simplifies placing the cell with automated first step of manufacturing. In a second step, all so they can actually input and output voltage. the metal layer is already a very complex of individual transistors to super small wires. cell heights, planning and placing the metal layer but because of automation and workflow row and the same logic block usually use the same the amount of fins, that means the cells in And that's where the unique properties of TSMCs the standard cell library was based on a 2-fin standard cell library, but adds two new options: this doesn't indicate different fin counts TSMC is adding the option of so called alternating same height for a cell row, but with FinFlex, the The 3-2 FinFlex library for example alternates means, a single logic block can now contain cell chip engineers have more options to fine-tune the Before FinFlex, you could choose if you want to That was the entire amount of customization. With A combination of 3-fin and 2-fin cells inside of 2.5-fins. And the combination of 2-fin and FinFlex is explicitly not the use of different like some claim. This has been always FinFlex brings this flexibility into the logic a 2- and a 2.5-fin cell library. Something that But it's not all sunshine. Placing alternating complexity. You have to make sure that very paths are not placed in the rows with suffer from reduced performance. Instead, in such a way that less important cells while important cells can benefit Of course this is all done in software. No modern Automation. Companies like Cadence and Synopsis already have updated their tools for FinFlex designs. As process nodes and their design will continue to be on the winning side. post about the use of FinFlex and other ways process node itself. It's very in-dept, but it affects different companies and products. And it might be up your alley. I've put Chip design and semiconductor manufacturing have break it down into little pieces, even complex promise too much at the start of the video and depopulation and what makes FinFlex so special. topic. But considering their importance, I major reasons why FinFET process nodes still and other design technology co-optimization, the fins off of transistors has been a lifeline at face value, the idea looks like a brute force start cutting things off, if you want to stay I hope you found this video interesting