In Game of Thrones, the great houses of Westeros Lannisters, Tyrells, Baratheons, and Martells. All these families are important to the story, in the books compared to the TV show, especially Dorne is a land of scorching deserts and red Dorne has its own distinct culture, cause Nymeria led her people to migrate to Dorne. So Dorne has more equality for women - Dornish as a man does. And Dorne is more relaxed about sex - paramours in Dorne. Three hundred years ago, when Aegon Targaryen to resist him, using guerrilla tactics to Dorne only joined the other kingdoms much between the Martells and Targaryens. So Dorne has a proud history of independence Unbent, Unbroken". Eighteen years ago, the King of Westeros was was Prince Rhaegar, the older brother of Viserys Rhaegar married Elia Martell, the beloved And their uncle Lewyn was in the Kingsguard. So the Martells were closely tied to the Targaryen and prestige. Rhaegar and Elia had two kids - future rulers But unfortunately, King Aerys was a mad cruel Stark to have a prophecy baby, so Robert Baratheon Rhaegar and Lewyn were killed in battle. Tywin Lannister attacked King's Landing, [and Amory Lorch], raped and killed Princess Elia was meant to become Rhaegar's queen, But all that was lost, and King Robert married of Elia. So Elia's brothers Doran and Oberyn were They lost their beloved sister, and her children, prospects with the Targaryens. Ever since, they've wanted revenge against in power - they want "Vengeance. Justice. Fire and blood." But they don't get it right away. The Prince of Dorne is Doran Martell. He's a "cautious", "patient", ruler, Doran is full of pain and grief. He suffers from gout, a disease that causes mourns his sister Elia". So Doran sits in a wheelchair in a palace play. The kids remind him of his responsibility He wants revenge against the Lannisters, but So Doran won't start a war that he might win. Oberyn is the opposite to Doran. Known as the Red Viper, he's "dangerous" Provocative and passionate, a warrior and When he was sixteen, Oberyn had sex with Lord over her. Oberyn used a poisoned weapon, so Yronwood Yronwoods are the second most powerful house To prevent conflict, Doran gave his son Quentyn And Oberyn went overseas for a while - fighting fathering bastards all over the world. So Doran and Oberyn are very different, but He says if Oberyn is a viper, Doran is the In Book 2, Westeros is at war, and King Joffrey So Tyrion Lannister offers an alliance with Princess Myrcella goes to Dorne and is betrothed Myrcella and Trystane are young kids in the friendship - but soon, their families' Montague and Capulets]. Tyrion invites Doran to come to King's Landing But instead of cautious patient Doran, the Oberyn demands "justice" for the death and Tywin. So in Tyrion's trial by combat, Oberyn fights He wounds Gregor with a poisoned spear, but It's not clear what Doran and Oberyn's things] - but this attempt at justice just Oberyn's death inflames the Dornish people They want war against the Lannisters to avenge Oberyn's daughters, the Sand Snakes. Oberyn had eight bastard daughters, by five They all have different personalities and eyes". The eldest, Obara, is a warrior - strong Nymeria is beautiful and ladylike, but deadly Tyene seems innocent and sweet, but she's After Oberyn's death, the Snakes come to So Doran imprisons the Sand Snakes, to keep It seems like Doran is playing nice with the People think he's just too weak and "afraid" So Doran's daughter takes action. Arianne Martell is Prince Doran's heir - meaning But Arianne feels that Doran doesn't trust He never shares his plans with her, and never good marriage for her. Arianne believes that Doran wants to make Arianne refuses to be cheated of her of birthright. So Arianne starts a secret plot - she plans rival to King Tommen, to provoke war between This war would give the Martells their vengeance, instead of Quentyn and Doran. So Arianne seduces Myrcella's guard, Ser but she's caught by Doran's guard Areo Ser Arys is killed, and this emo asshole Darkstar Darkstar cuts off part of Myrcella's face, So Arianne's plot goes terribly wrong. And it turns out the whole thing was based Doran doesn't hate Arianne, or want Quentyn It turns out that all this time that Doran he was secretly planning revenge - he's since the day they told [him] of Elia". Doran reveals that after Robert took over with the Targaryens to marry Arianne to Viserys The plan was that the Martells would help the Lannisters - for "Vengeance", "Justice", But since Doran was so cautious and patient, was ready, and had an army. So for like ten years Doran didn't tell And Doran didn't help Viserys and Daenerys Viserys died never knowing about the pact. And Doran's secrecy just alienated his own him. So Doran's plan failed. But now that the Viserys is dead, Doran has Viserys, he'll have his son Quentyn marry That way Dorne can help Daenerys take the and Quentyn and Daenerys can be King and Queen It's a nice plan - but like the previous Quentyn Martell goes on a long and dangerous He tells himself it's a "grand adventure", prince and his friends travel to distant lands, world". But Quentyn learns that adventure stinks. His best friend gets killed by pirates. He's forced to join with mercenaries, and The whole journey is traumatic and horrible, offers to marry her, she laughs. Cause Quentyn's nickname is Frog, and Daenerys enchanted princes for their true love. But sadly, Quentyn is "Neither enchanted Quentyn isn't a handsome Prince Charming. He's short and awkward [and thicc] and kinda His personality is like his father's - he's while Daenerys is attracted to hot bad boys Quentyn says Dorne will help Daenerys take now - she's busy trying to bring peace So Daenerys marries Hizdahr instead, and then leaving Quentyn feeling like an idiot. He crossed half the world to marry Daenerys. If he goes home without her, he'll disappoint So Quentyn decides to be brave and bold like He plans to steal one of Daenerys' dragons, and take her back to Dorne for fire and blood. But it turns out -- being a brave young prince lizard - and Dany's dragons burn Quentyn Quentyn's last word is "Oh". So life is not like a fairy tale. And another Martell plan for fire and blood Back in Dorne, Doran doesn't know his son He's still waiting for Quentyn to come home, A Targaryen does land in Westeros - but In the books, there's this kid called Young Varys and Illyrio claim that Young Griff is and Elia Martell. Everyone thinks that Aegon died in Robert's But Varys claims that they secretly swapped the real Aegon survived - and Varys and King of Westeros. There are hints that this Aegon is fake, and the Varys video. But real or fake, Aegon could take the Iron and Tommen's throne under Cersei is weak. So Aegon asks Doran for an alliance. Doran hopes that this kid really is his long But Doran is cautious, and wants to make sure to check him out. After her plot with Myrcella, Arianne seems obedient to Doran. He tells her to just meet with Aegon, and But Arianne still has ambitions. Arianne feels jealous that if Quentyn marries will be king of Westeros, while Arianne will to "King Quentyn"?. This sibling rivalry might lead Arianne to Fans speculate that Arianne might yolo it Cause if Aegon becomes King, his wife Arianne have to kneel to anyone. But like every other Martell plan, this might It is very possible that Aegon and Arianne But eventually, Daenerys and her dragons will a fake Targaryen sitting on her Throne. Author George Martin has hinted that there'll war between Targaryens - meaning that Aegon One character has a dream that dragons are the people die. So the ending of the books will be different and Aegon's conflict, along with Cersei Landing to burn. And if Arianne is with Aegon, she'll burn Like Oberyn and like Quentyn, Arianne's and blood. The Sand Snakes might also be doomed. Obara Nymeria and Tyene swear obedience to Doran sends Obara with Areo and Ser Balon, Myrcella. It's 3 v 1. But Darkstar is "dangerous" - and he We're warned that Darkstar might kill Obara. If Obara survives Darkstar, she might go to Cause Obara's mother was from Oldtown, and cause she now "hates" Oldtown - says [Raiding Oldtown is a time-honoured tradition And interestingly, Obara's sister Sarella Citadel, in disguise. Sarella loves Oldtown as much as Obara hates So it could be dramatic if Obara attacks the apocalyptic magic are approaching. Fundamentally, Obara is motivated by anger can never catch". Maybe at Oldtown, or with Darkstar, Obara fury. Meanwhile, Tyene and Nymeria are going to Doran wants Tyene to infiltrate the High Sparrow's council. Cersei is about to go on trial for adultery And her champion is Robert Strong, the reanimated killed Elia and Oberyn. The Lannisters say Gregor is dead. They even send Gregor's skull to Dorne, have a head without his skull? Was someone else's giant skull sent to Dorne? Or does Gregor now have someone else's head, his helmet Bran has a dream of "darkness helm. Maybe that'll be dramatically revealed during Cause Nymeria says that if Gregor appears before all the Seven Kingdoms". Nymeria and Tyene will be furious that the for the Lannisters. Maybe they'll take revenge. Nymeria says that she wants to murder Tommen. And there is that whole prophecy that Cersei's And Nymeria will be perfectly placed on the and with Tyene's poison. So maybe the Sand Snakes will kill Tommen, bloody act of vengeance. Maybe the deaths of her children will lead it'll be Dany's dragonfire - but either obsession with vengeance may end with their Quentyn Arianne and Obara before them. All of Doran's plans for vengeance justice Partly because he's too cautious, and untrusting "Too well". And Doran waits too long. Doran's first line describes the orange oranges are well past ripe" - he waits ground. If Doran had attacked the Lannisters earlier, maybe the Martells could've got justice But now that Tywin and Gregor are dead, they who had nothing to do with Elia's murder. So at this point, a war for vengeance will Oberyn's paramour Ellaria says vengeance Oberyn died avenging Elia. Now the Sand Snakes want to avenge him. If they die, will their younger sisters have There's no meaning in death. Having Gregor's skull doesn't make Ellaria make her smile. As Quentyn's friend tells him right before meaning, not their deaths". Justice can have meaning, but Obara Nymeria murdering children, and starting wars, can And Arianne puts her country at risk for the Ellaria says that "Doom and death are coming" You can imagine Doran sitting in the Water And he'll realise that all his careful plots Tragically, the Martells' might for justice death. Sometimes fire and blood only makes ash. There are more theories and details about So we made a little extra bonus Dorne video, Nebula is an independent creator-owned video YouTube's demonetisation or The Algorithm. Nebula has exclusive content from people like and more. You can get Nebula in a bundle with CuriosityStream like David Attenborough nature flicks, and real history that inspired Game of Thrones. With the link below, you can get CuriosityStream You get heaps of quality content, including some of the smartest creators online - and Thanks for watching. Please like comment and subscribe. Links to the artists are in the description, Dorne. Thanks to Patrons Danielle LaPlante, Jake Zeki Kazan, and EdithWithTheManHands. Cheers.