There are hidden cues in someone We're gonna go through what those My dear elegant ladies, Why do the nouveau rich or new I think it's because there I don't think they speak for the majority, but there are groups that can be quite Some might even think that, I'm better than everyone the new money community have a little bit bad apples. However, one thing that we need to take into actually new money and that's because in our current climate So I personally don't think that there being new money. So for this reason, I don't regardless of where their Well, money does not define We're not measuring people's value based on money. So that's So today's list is actually more for fun. It's also for some who might just want into some really stereotype version not feel represent them as a person. Please also know this is generalization. There are exceptions. This is not a rule. And I am not saying that any of these shouldn't be doing it. You can definitely even if you have, or do let's start with the list. and let's get the most common Because we need to talk a little which is definitely what most of us think is of new money. And the way I see it is that I think but it all depends how you wear logos. The nouveau rich tend to where it becomes too much, too much in someone's face and kind I'm talking about when maybe wearing garments that have very visible, very clear, or let's say you're wearing a print whatever brand it is. Other times, it can be a little bit tacky when you obvious branded items together, which is when it becomes a little bit it's fine. Keep it less. You don't maybe just one item, maybe it's But it is a common character of new money wealth is to be a little bit more careless of spending, being more using money as if it's growing on trees. And the thing is with old money, they have this mindset that we are passing on wealth. So we need to preserve the money generations. And to make sure that there is something So they're more careful with how of course also buy expensive things, but they will think more in Nouveau rich are more into more is more, but the reason why this And that is because it's connected to excessive spending, which one is not very it comes across a little bit immature What I mean with immature, almost We want to prove ourselves that and that we are so cool. we need to do all these crazy things or to prove a point. That's when it becomes immature I think it's very important to be clever And then of course, you should but being smart is number not equal being loud. So this especially if you ladies acquire I need to be honest with you. I have made so many mistakes and most people wouldn't but I have done so. In my how I went from broken awkward And I want to really give you the tools I leveled up and I have also noticed utilize when they level up, and I And this is actually a free and it's only here for So please come and join me You sign up by going to the link Levelupsecret.com But make sure you hurry up so that you this workshop is going to go away soon. So make sure you don't miss. Next in line, we have looking too expensive. What do I mean by that? I talk so much about looking expensive. Is there such a thing that looking when I talk about that we aim to I'm talking about that. I mean, I think it's normal that most people garments versus cheap garments. I don't think anyone would like to However, there is such a thing as looking too and call it more looking too extravagant, same principle as we spoke about earlier. But now, we're not really about designer actually look too expensive without logos. I'm talking about when you are or you are wearing fur, or you are wearing like these really And it's all very kind of everything a little bit of a stereotype of almost like a cartoon character. When we are in these circles or we don't want to look like a And this actually takes us to the next they tend to wear very So we are talking about, I don't know We're talking about We talk about the Chanel bag or certain watches, et cetera, I want you to understand that there's There's nothing wrong with to a society. After all, I've been teaching you over the years definitely this is direction This is kind of the social cues. It's not about that you but it's about understanding there is a line between And then you can take it a bit too far just scream nouveau rich, And that's basically what I also have many of these things and and I'm not gonna stop wearing it now nouveau rich. Those who would like guidance this is what the list is for. Next in line, being part of the jetset circuit, traveling to all the hotspots. And I'm talking about some very Let's say you go skiing in you travel to St. Barts or in in particular Saint-Tropez, there is nothing wrong going to these But what I'm referring to now is It's a repeated schedule in a way, the new money crowd enjoy they flock to, and they just travel from spot to spot, and they do that whole circuit over and ladies, there's nothing wrong going enjoy yourself, go there for networking, But if you are really then you just need to be aware stereotypical new money, that's where you're gonna because that's the kind of If you're more interested secret millionaires and billionaires, then most often you will travel to other So this is of course important. What community would you like to and I'm sure we all are aware that there a bunch of pictures with all kinds of the new money they love doing this. As an example, taking pictures with champagne bottles are approaching you, or taking or maybe taking pictures of your maybe you are taking picture of your or you're taking picture of You can really see how much money you Now, there are many ways how And I think it's nouveau I think we all can agree on that. But I let's say, you have acquired certain have a certain lifestyle and then you you take pictures, sometimes you You might actually not be showing Then you have those who really all this stuff, that they live And this is when it becomes different maybe a bit nouveau rich. So this is definitely something you want a certain level of elegance. Next on this list. So to continue this and we all know that if your private jets, helicopters, exotic cars, then most likely, you are living more of a quite of a or secret millionaires. They oftentimes don't like to maybe only occasional, So for this reason, even also taking it's not going to make It's just going to make you look more nothing wrong with being nouveau rich. I'm just saying that that's how people if you just try to keep it in imagine this really expensive and doesn't know how to eat properly But it does give away someone's And definitely it shows I'm not used to this type of environment. I might be all bling up and look like but I don't have the education. And that is the part what where it came from. Because old money, they're all educated to have So this is why actually in my course, Secrets of the Elite Woman, I have a whole module on dining right so that you can I teach this in my program, If you want to find out more simply visit the link here below. Now, point number nine is being this has to do with manners and That's something that I do think is because they're very educated on never, ever being rude to service staff. And this is something that oftentimes or actually they think it's the I can do whatever I want. I can be as rude as I want, basically. I afford to be rude to people and this I kindly ask you always act with especially to those who are serving very important. Now, last but not They buy into these trends, whether trendy experiences, trendy travel, Now old money tend to be more traditional new right now, because what happens Trends is wasteful at times as well, This information is for those So I hope this has helped. Now in my next video, you're gonna find out how to be what those important 10 points are.