A lot of people have noted that astronomy all, every time we make a new discovery, we The Earth is but one planet among many, orbiting out in the suburbs of a galaxy that is one It's easy to feel pretty small when you And we astronomers keep making it worse! Because everything there is. Normal matter, the stuff in the Universe? That's only a small fraction It's time we talk about some very, very In the 1960s and 1970s, astronomer Vera Rubin in how they rotate, because you can learn the solar system: back in the 1600s, Johannes is from the Sun, the slower it orbits. Isaac strength of the Sun's gravity, which means Same with galaxies. If you can measure how in their orbits near the edge of the galaxy of the entire galaxy. Galaxies are so big move, but you can measure their Doppler shift, What Rubin expected to see was that the farther cloud was, the slower it would be moving, move more slowly in their orbits. What she got though was the opposite. For you went the faster the clouds were moving! with distance, when they should have declined. That meant the gravity of the galaxies was from the center as you'd expect. But that's the number of stars and other massive objects you went. There simply isn't enough mass rapid rotation rates. Or -- not enough mass from things we can The only explanation is that there must be something besides stars, gas, and dust. Not a halo of this material to get the shapes be a lot of it! Rubin found there must be than the visible matter in galaxies. Back in the 1930s, astronomer Fritz Zwicky speeds of galaxies in galaxy clusters. The stay in the cluster; at the measured speeds he concluded, there must be far more gravity It turns out Zwicky's observations had way claims. He hugely overestimated the amount were far, far better and more accurate. However, material stuck, and we still use it: dark Over the years, more observations have only behavior in elliptical galaxies, for example. cluster member velocities show they do in dark matter in them too. Zwicky was right is credited for making the discovery. Of course, the idea that so much of the material skepticism by astronomers. Everything gives just kept supporting the existence of dark So, what IS dark matter? That was the big listed every single thing they could think gas, dust, dead stars, rogue planets, everything. to exist in quantum mechanics theories, but Then they thought of ways they could detect for example. But everything they tried came off the list, and eventually everything made protons, electrons, and neutrons - was eliminated. All that was left on the list was that truly no one had ever seen before. One such particle but their properties match what we see of a huge cloud of them they'll have enough to emit much light, so even a huge cloud of And they another weird property: they don't An axion would pass right through you like If dark matter were made of axions, then clouds and we'd never see them. If that's the case, It turns out there is a way. But before I pretty weird. Actually several somethings As I mentioned in our black hole episode, space wasn't just emptiness between stars. of matter and energy embedded in it. Although you have to be careful not to take acts like a fabric with everything stuck to it has real implications. For one, what we perceive as gravity - the actually just a bending of this fabric of sitting on a soft mattress; the surface of past it, the path of the marble will curve. This is true for light, too! It's like having they move, and trucks do too. Everything does. as matter does, but it does curve if it moves massive an object is, the more gravity it it can warp the path of a light beam. You know what else bends light? A lens! So Now picture a cluster of galaxies. It has - well, in cosmic terms. If there's a us, much farther away, the light that more way to us. The image of the galaxy can smeared Einstein's equations tell us that the amount so we can, in theory, measure the mass of it. Not only that, but it gives us a map of Astronomers used this method on a cluster years away called the Bullet Cluster. It's just a cluster, but a collision of two clusters. are physically colliding, and may eventually When galaxies collide they tend to pass through the galaxies, there are vast amounts of gas. clusters does indeed smack into each other, the gas will emit X-rays. This provides an interesting opportunity. next to each other. They've already one each other as expected. The gas in the clusters most of it to be between the galaxies, having other more or less head on. Using the Chandra X-ray observatory, astronomers as expected it lies mostly between the galaxies, can even see how the collision has shaped like the waves of water created by a rapidly But there's more. Even though the Bullet hundreds of galaxies even farther away that of the matter in the Bullet Cluster distorted by very carefully measuring that distortion, Including dark matter. If dark matter is made be surrounding the subclusters themselves, dark matter axions would pass right through And when you do make the map that's exactly that there's a lot of matter, shown here it's clearly not the hot gas seen by Chandra, It looks very much like dark matter. Since the Bullet Cluster observations were showing the same sort of behavior. Attempts using dark matter, but in the end the simplest The stuff we see isn't all the stuff there To be honest, we still don't know what dark others exist. Lots of experiments have been of subatomic particles, but the very nature and doesn't interact with normal matter why it took so long to even know it existed But even though it's incredibly elusive, it turns out that As we'll see in upcoming episodes, we're got its start, and how it's evolved over first, clumping together into larger and larger then clusters. It turns out that larger structures early Universe as energy was blasted out by couldn't aggregate due to all that heat. That is, without dark matter. When you include we see in the Universe CAN form. How about that? Something like 85% of the see, can barely detect, and is made of something in the cosmos owe their existence to it. We humans can get a little arrogant, thinking In a sense, we do, because most of the Universe warm and dense part of it. But the stuff that of normal matter - that's in a serious minority In a way, Obi-wan Kenobi was right; there matter. It surrounds us and penetrates us; Today you learned that the kind of matter only one kind of matter. There is also dark which interacts with normal matter only through galaxies move in clusters, and how large structures many ways, one of which is by seeing how its distant galaxies as it passes through dark Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.