Indie hacking is dead. At least today, Pieter Levels once not dead but it is different why it's different, that we will Bootstrapped Founder. Pieter and dealing with platform risks, and hacking anymore, and how to 2023. A big shout out to the acquire.com. More on that later. Pieter, thanks so much for being question here. Why is indie more about that? Man, so I tweeted that indie was more like I think, because first message is like indie tried to explain, but nobody TikTok, you know, people only meant was, like indie hacking because the kind of big, maybe before a lot of people would do right? Everybody knows this kind of like became very popular hacking. And I think also now, Twitter is that big companies, me and they follow other indie are doing. Like it's become you know, a lot of people in San Louis, he's making AI startup in some parts of sleeping path. And path, like a hostel in San full of indie hackers trying to why? Is this because it's San place where you raise VC and like it's a mainstream term now. means it has become more more difficult because you're indie hackers. Now a lot of like the standard route. You're companies now. And I see this competing with companies that like these big AI startups and know and they see what I'm they ask their developers to vice versa, of course, but dead in a way that like, if hacking, you know and then COVID normal. It would also be dead anymore, just normal now. So Yeah, that is exactly the to be hacking. It used to be subculture thing. Yeah And now it's just the way people Yeah Indie hacking is just indie I think so. And people reply to right? because you're like in the indie mainstream at all. But I do present on the radar for a lot prefer like, man, I have a lot And they say their next startup will do it because they can have from the VCs, you know? Yeah. Well, good. I think that's lot of speculation happening economic recession is not the Yeah, yeah, yeah For people to put their whole That's a very good point. Like good point because you want to hacking becomes a necessity hard to get funding. It's hard Yeah, that's right. That series know, maybe money has dried up in many ways selective in what they fund. like AI startups because there's recently tweeted something about hours ago Yeah You did about like how you found before with other startups now It's kind of the lack of a moat. It's a big problem. Yeah, I said problem. Everybody talks about VC funded AI founders. We DM and retention, which is the churn is like you make something and clones because everybody's Everybody's using GPT-4 for tech but or people use stable Everybody uses the same so it's stuff you do around is combine all the models and everybody can figure this out. I three months, if you're less year. So it's very difficult to Right? Yeah. Yeah, that's an issue. I curse, right? Yeah The curse is everybody can do It's really good for customers, do it. There is a lot of variety people making these apps and you to go down but difficult for price goes down like this pure to zero. And man, my profit is not high like this week I've you know, with the cost of GPU really low very quickly. So Yeah, I was wondering about this your startups, the whole list of right? Some are going on, Nomad is still there. And then you have pretty significant MRR. compared to the others, right? Yeah, that's the problem. That's honestly, GPU costs go down. were thinking GPU costs would go like, there's a kind of enough chips, it's so popular enough chips. And the stock of the roof because of this. So it's insane. It's like you need for people who don't know, it's processor, but it's for very, let's not go too deep. But AI stuff, you need a GPU for AI very slow. So there's not enough makes almost all of them. So servers very high. It's crazy to think about just back there, right? You have the And you need those for machine run by somebody else. And then company and you build on top of Yeah So you depend on all these Yeah How do you deal with this? is that much dependent. No, not at all. No, it's like, data for about cities, right. So sources. But it's like 100 kind of information. And some is dependent at all. But with GPUs, I cannot name too many names. last year, I started with was making in theory AI because was typing stuff like everybody generate images. And I found out very beautiful design houses. So thishousedoesnotexist.org, I houses random design, like house I saw it also made very making interior AI, where you afterwards, you can upload your image technology. And it's kind made in theory AI and then I tune and fine tuning is where make it more focused towards a you want to make interiors this image model can make any houses but also plans, people, focus in interior and get better interior photos and it gets training with my own photos works. And you get like these style. And I was like, wow, this And it went viral. Then the next quickly make a start up for it was I think the first big AI big companies were following me. they did the same and they got they made I think $40 million. I million dollars or $400,000, getting two months is insane. to say is that the service I cost of funding was $3. And then was sharing my revenue, that it this. They said sorry, we need training. And I was selling them a month, they got all the money. said as difficult. Maybe they problems with like getting GPUs price and I felt kind of like is a good example. You're when they see you're successful, happens to people who have co working space famous who was brands and then when they were lease and say oh, now it's like the rent is what landlords do. nice. So I switched out to a new replicate.com They're very nice. don't change price, they don't decrease prices. It's amazing. Man, it's a real problem. Well, if there's one thing that experience is just to think start, right? If you have a like, you have to find a way to have another service to plug Exactly. So you have to go one your own feet virtual private then you need to learn to code And man, this Python is too much difficult. So I hired an AI with these models because it's cannot like Danny Postma is my headshotpro.com. And he did it hired more people, but he's like Python stuff. And yeah, I heads, you know. Well, it's kind of one of these you know, as a solopreneur, build stuff. Like you don't want takes you three years of Man, I think it would take me package manager does not be it working. It's so difficult. year, I see my limits. I'm not Did you have a hard time hiring experience when I founded my ran it, ran it. I thought I you know, the solo tech kind of Yeah, cuz I thought I could do I had Danny on the show a couple you? thought I could. Man, I was arrogant. And I thought because ups just work, almost everything and like jet moderators and If the server was on, but that's can do everything myself. I can everything and I could. And the interesting. Like his focus on clunky because I do everything something you take for granted. not so bad. But this year, I was things I cannot do like organic marketing, organic SEO Danny Postma made me very fresh guy. He's like insane. He makes keywords like he discovered his well. That was most of the service, specifically this making like, advertisers, very more. Now I'm learning about guy to help me with man, because one influencer, he posted about and MRR went from 12k to like 40 stayed that way. And of course, worked in but this shows you these influence. And it's way also got a lot of press for press does almost nothing, you but nobody links and clicks on I personally have never done. word of mouth marketing and my just diving into the data and building businesses on top of right? Like finding a domain, business on top of that domain data driven approach, really building a team. He's building a Yeah, yeah Building something out there. So parallel with that, trying to yourself. 100%. And like we always do like photos that suddenly look much and he asked me man, what are other hands. So they say like, and try this, you know, but doing head shots and I don't like niche. I'm doing more thing. Have you ever considered building a business together? Yeah, Ithink we both would lot. He respects me a lot. I The man found his technology trust my code because they'll proper, like JavaScript, you most of the code is Python in that's where the real stuff I think could happen in the For example, to if I ever sell something would be good because have a lot of respect. And I doing. And he shake me up a lot because first I was making more think at some point, he was profile pictures and then I was like, what's going on? know, because you want to win, good for me. It was like, okay, like SEO, like marketing, like, searching, makes up pages, all yeah, it's very cool. Yeah. Sounds like you have a little with Danny. Nice. Yeah. Well, man not every day. we message. Yeah That's awesome. Yeah. I love code because to me, like your around it and your use of jQuery and all that, that has become And I mean, it's in the best it's really funny that somebody 90s. But also, people think, oh, this and still be successful. I technology. Because if I think PHP and a little bit of Yeah Yeah Right? Do you do you ever Like, if you ever sell your that up? Because you just said somebody else, they don't trust about that? Like, how make selling the business? Yeah. Look, the thing with this for viral effects. So I'd make bad. But it's much better, like bad. And I'm not saying it's pretty good. It's, it's like commented. It's very, like I know, this index of PHP was in GitHub. There's a very myself, like folder structure this, like scheduled work is as app. There's a data file with a uses like SQLite. So it's very developer can get into and they small things come on. It's want to find. So it does work, It's more it's not about PHP point that it doesn't matter who work in enterprise in agency, MLM I feel like where know anything about tech. They want like a website or app and need to sell like the best newest technology, like we use to, they use as a sales thing. to update the skills to use this cycle. And it's a whole economy of like frameworks now gets evangelists and like, become they are very, that's a big who make developers promote the for them. That's the whole they need growth and all good. think that they need all this this technology is nice, but in technology makes things more thing called I think Taleb, Lindy effect, where all just works because it's old, works. New technology, you need of because it's often breaks buy like smart home stuff. Like some smart TV or something, you watch TV now. This kind of Lindy It shows it to me and it's Yeah So I think that's my whole point what you use. There's no need developers. If you are about like if you're developer, entrepreneur and the problem is work as freelancers they want to bring this whole bogash, this stack and over engineering. And and stuff, to something where customers and getting people to survive. You know, you pay your Yeah, developers and I think we right? We're so tool focused, we want it to be optimal. We want solution. I'm kind of glad that stick to one tool and just make is some framework out there that regard. But it doesn't matter, bring a thing to market, that's use the best tool possible. And the beginning, too, it's like or was referring to when you were with the lack of moat. And just you kind of have to imagine that of months around the corner, much more important than the framework that you use, right? Yeah, 100%. And man, most honest. Like, man, I'm not good One skill I have because I don't Man, I repeat myself all the 10 times like, you know, don't then I write a function, but I immediately write a function for like, man, you know, like this especially in beginning when you something new, it's very this because you're trying to idea, right? Like, when I was on man, it wasn't even code. It was was just a page. We have could generate and the input form, Stripe checkout, Stripe to get your avatars Stripe nothing else. And then I would email. And on Stripe checkout, I type form. So I went to a type photos with file uploads and immediately had like, 100 thing is 100 or 200 orders photos and then I would go to tuning. I would upload their download the resulting photos. manual work. I'd spent like all started automated the second lot of work. After a week, it Wow. So that's an example where there landing page and a tweet. That's so cool And a payment link. And thenwhen you know. Right. Yeah, you have a process Right? You have steps that you Yeah, because you prove that it maybe and then you can invest coding takes a lot of time. cartoon, the XSCD or something. XKCD. Yeah Yeah. Yeah, you know they have a chart like how much time it how much time the thing itself takes to automate something is takes. So if that's true, just you know, obviously, if you downloading photos, it takes too faster, right? Yeah, for sure. I mean, if that much did you charge per photo at $30 You know, that's like that's That's not too bad, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's I mean, some people would do just, you know, it's so pretty really enjoy that this Particularly with AI, right? A automate when there is a lot of right? As well with the whole it's really cool that you did you had it all figured out. I approach to kind of what Paul approach, right? The idea of treatment. I do this for you automated. A lot of people want They want to build a tool, they integration, they want all kinds make money. But you made money is really Yeah, I think it's also because I spent man, it took so much some YouTube Analytics startup think and nobody paid for it. And it was just everything was But nobody, you know, so I'm so I'm not going to build anything know, generally. Whenever I go to Product Hunt you know, you have the top five I have a couple more that have upvotes. And then you have the that day that have no upvotes every single one of them is a building the perfect product. Man, exactly! That's what I always think Like it's so sad. And like they landing page is, like beautiful me, you know. This beautiful move. It's fancy. It's so fancy. If it's too time on design or it's some VC money on designers. If it's the yet, you know and I prefer a beginning, that just. Man, look it was very ugly. Look at ugly. You need to have a very think to validate something Yeah. That's kind of also what hacking being dead or different. better phrase, right? It's not not the same as what it used to Seven years ago, it was a things are done. It has arrived, But I think that's what indie think Danny posted about this, drop shipping. That's what he people that in the replies to people have just higher indie hacking now looks think that's important too, can deal with a, you know, with barely any CSS in there. No that there is a manual still want to use it because with indie hacking going into the chasm as well. And you now let's just call them that. That proven that have that need did this pretty well because you your history of products and whatever you launch, you have Like, that's something that your case, now that you're on Twitter, you bring this with somebody were to start any tell them to get to this point? the social proof that they need Man, honestly, this is like very should always do the opposite if enacting is mentioned, you something completely different. should go where nobody's going was almost nobody. It was only bootstrapping startups. And it was not normal to bootstrap very not normal. And now it's feel you need to run away from You need to go somewhere else the grass where nobody is and go you know and then spend a lot of about social proof, I don't important. Maybe it's just it's that's like a problem that's out the sub Reddits. There's a lot Reddit has like a goal and you you can make around that. Like Craigslist, right? Every You can do same with subreddits. the day is TikTok, right? Go to TikTok and see what people want Maybe this answer start doing for a year. I don't even do it should. But do go to TikTok and document your journey not on so hey, I'm Pieter. I just want to make some money and pay to make a video about this and feature. That would be how I wouldn't probably be on Twitter Interesting. Yeah, that where those people that you want That is something that I really talked a lot about AI startups feels to me that the demographic right? And then like people who don't know if you've seen the of people are very afraid of AI. generational divide there and to do this in front of people this is the way to go. Probably about this whole like AI is the conversation? What's your stand? First of all, this generation doesn't care. They just use it the guy from Jenni AI David and all these students use this writes papers for you or it and everybody uses this like you're right. Nobody says like, good or bad thing comes I think millennials, right? Yeah And journalists are also want to, you know, maybe it's everything, which kind of good everything. And there is, of philosophical things you can it's very useful to constantly know, about the problems with AI humanity. I don't know, I think how it can benefit everybody. Of Musk, you know, is also He's like, it's gotta be the end saying, you know? But he's also like, from a much Yeah, you're right. You're course, there's risk. But man, I like, negative scene on Twitter feel died off like when Elon very politically engaged scene And I don't see them a lot Macedon. But this is New you've saw the E/ACC. Like it's people are kind of want to they are positive about technology, how we can use humanity better. And it's E/ACC nickname and I follow up few Jeff Bezos, he's like the leader distinct group of people, very I think positive in general I say this after complaining days straight. But no, but I Sony headphones if they fix some works better than complaining. I think there's some powerlessness this AI stuff happening and And your income is not stagnant now and the government which is like free money for replacing a lot of stuff. I feel bad about this and you're complain about foreigners in complain about AI. You know, in strike in America, right? It's a write the TV shows and the the time because they think will so I understand the government should provide basic think, I don't know if there created actually. I generally really believe in that. It's a whole philosophical or like, should we even want feel that they're participating thing. Like the whole, like, that even something we need as I don't think so. Yeah, I agree with you there. fan. I've always been a very person. But it's just recently I because for some reason, I 90s and watch some really, honestly, I do understand that what technology is going to do, about, right? What if AI is very present in those movies. with this, if this is how you everything you look at is destroys everything around you, destroys society, that destroys do see some of this, right? What wonderfully phrased like the who are not able to control the machine. That is very, very And we are on like podcasts, we it's so good. Let's make money Of course, I'm positive about That's right like, as always, I feel like scapegoat, like, every of bad and good it brings, you right? It's brought a lot of know, because of internet and internet. So it's both. AI is governments should somehow and efficient, you know, in general, think again, they should provide can do voluntary work, for stuff that has to be done like like communities, I feel like be voluntary work and In all paid work too, right? doesn't mean that people don't means that they don't have to difference, right? Yeah, exactly. So I think it should be protected so that income, the basic, you know, house, being able to just buy think live a good life should be humanity. And but I'm Dutch, you socialist. I'm also a little bit socialist man. I'm like socialist by Marxian communists. That's exactly what it is. But I see a need for people feeling technology because they have no them. It works at them, it of it's attacking them, in a funny way, this kind of to happen with the technology it right? As entrepreneurs, this is yours from earlier. I'm just it. Like there is no way for us because it's not our technology on top of these things. So is something you would suggest to as an indie hacker? Man, it's so difficult question. should always try stuff with combine technology in new ways, think you should always like try you're always too late with too late. Like people said in startups now because already it's too late now. Of course, late. You just start and you it's AI. There'll be always But man, but this is the reason started booming, like around and then Stable Diffusion month and it's suddenly people now. And then I started like the time to build a lot of stuff wait six months, I'm not going stick. Like everybody already insane time making a lot of Now we're like, what? One years something. I mean, now it's never too late, right? But I first mover advantage doesn't kind of advantage if you catch a logical wave because people want technology is always very brutal people's if you add a front end start using it. I mean nomadism already nomadic but it was very what the internet was, what separated on different blogs, come to Thailand. No, you should travel bloggers. So collecting know, user friendly to become a wave, make technology easier to Do you still invest a lot of know, the ones that are pre AI? Yeah, Nomad List is still a lot week and I think soon once the stuff I wanted to do still on is finished, I will probably go it. Like I've been working on 3d last two months like because I was like this 3d globe with Thailand and to Qatar and And that kind of stuff. So I think in terms of like, I feel it's you can work on this just so you can work on this always a different way to figure live like for you personally, So you know. It's funny how this reminds me the Lindy effect, right? Things time they will be around for an what that means to me. Nomad You've been doing this for a you're still improving it and That's very interesting. And It's very stable Contrasted against your AI and super expensive and interesting lesson to be drawn long term kind of Yeah, I'd never expect to stay now. And I always expect this before, electronic music mixes like 8k per month and then it thought every business like traumatized, like, okay, this is to make a lot of money. But it it's average, usually, like 40 money. So, just Nomad List, so nice business. Yeah, definitely. It definitely crazy than the AI stuff. Man! Yeah, I tweet about today, stressful because you always and of competitors. And when a now, it's a little bit slower. was some new thing, new implement this very fast. And it fucks with your sleep, you Would you sell them? Would you Yeah, I think I'll get it to a MRR for photo AI and interior recently. And the multiples for they are very quite high. Like, you get, like 2-3x or something, five or six or even eight So I think, again, the problem are based on profits. So you And then you need to go to for like, good amount of money. to sell. It's always like a nice it is stressful, you know, disease. Yeah, I mean, if not like mental anxiety and dealing with like the platforms, that dependency platforms, right? If they $2,000 a month kind of move. I it maybe but you know, like, it really. Yeah, yeah. Well, the good thing when one company will raise the probably easily back then not switch to another provider. So there's no less platform you know, because there's a lot but it is stressful, you know. you know, overhead press and mind. I don't have anxiety a stressful. Yeah, I bet. Yeah, that's the startups, right? You really have make as much as you can and then feels, it doesn't feel like very Such an interesting way of Not my vibe, you know, I like And that's what I had with me, so gimmicky. Like, it's not it completely removes the act of like too short term, you know like a photo studio for long potentially long but who knows, Like the act is gone, right? You long but the intention is to can stay even if you sell it can years, you know, because the photography without needing a just train yourself and you can anywhere in the world from your the beach or you're in the anymore. Yeah, it's such a cool idea. And you and I kinda also hate it likes to take photos, right? sides and I love the fact that that it's so easy to build so It's like Photoshop. Photoshop Photoshop came out and the Photoshop, like this is gonna is fake now and it didn't. Like for touching up or for art and I feel with all this stuff it mentioned, you have a wedding photos and then there's not a can use AI to train this person and then stitch them back into That is really cool. That makes That can be a mix of reality and probably the future. So I was gonna ask you what do you but I kind of hear the sentiment things easier. That is always It's not that the AI is going to AI's gonna help us do the things least. Yeah. But I do think that it it can replace photographers. So will probably need one photographers, you know. You the AIs. So yeah, it's But also for interior designers to, a lot of interior designers a client who wants to get an don't know what they want. You And then you give them a lot of want this and you can kind of to find the style that the it looks and but this also because you you need less like. estate agencies, a lot of them these renders, especially new interior renders, so fake and in man, it takes 10 seconds to Normally, it takes what like two that's a real thing. But these It's going to shortcut a lot of already and have like people you said Photoshop is that too, tools to manipulate images more physical, it's like People used to actually cut My dad did that It got digitized. All of a took hours to get done. Right? Exactly. Now you can edit with dad is a big, his favorite thing with, he has classic film tapes everything before. And then he professional video, like betacom Final Cut Pro. But then I'm make videos on my iPhone now. In and it is high quality. So you And yeah, we'll keep changing. Yeah, I find it so interesting you get the boring project. I'm boring, but it kinda is like in around it. It's just used by the it. Yeah And you get the hype ish that get like, coverage in the Yeah, but this was Nomad List no, Nomad List got a lot of it was in all articles. I was go everywhere. So it was hype normal. It becomes mainstream. Do you think like, being a nomad obviously I see you traveling but it's not like it's still isn't dead, right? But is it personally do? Or do you want to your business, do you want to forever? Do you still want to Man, like this problem, this most of them are slow mads and go like, you know, sometimes place that kind of like month to month and then it usually or six months in one slowed down a lot like with stopped traveling, right? This travel. But before I was, you like two countries. And I think think you do go crazy if you personally do. I did, you know? are anymore. Like there was you wake up and there's a thing am I? You look outside. Oh, this stuff? Yeah Man, it's probably not so good. lifestyle. But I think long term relationship and if you have still think you can move. But few places, you know and I think people like retirees do. They are they called? Like birds like Snow birds Snowbirds, in the winter, they they go to New York or it's just it's gonna go to the like Europe in the South. It to go to Asia, Southeast Asia like the big city Asia with on the beach. I think this works here. But yeah, nomadism is there's real like spots like and Thailand also and Mexico. because they can work remotely a nomads and they live in Mexico. less. You know, but a lot of original countries now because called digital nomading, right? I guess. Yeah. And in a way is a digital nomad, right? In another country, like in country and that's become very like, I think it's still very 20, I would not go probably to go travel with my laptop and try travel is such a, especially survive, you have to meet people anxiety these days. So you have people and you learn how to talk was very probably shy before now talk. I learned to go out of my And I think this stuff you learn go, you can be a new personalities, you know, sounds know, your AB test, yeah. You this certain Arvid. But then you become international Arvid. you try this, you know, you try can, a lot of people test this benefit of nomading. That sounds awesome. And it also Twitter to me, where you can to be, right? Like you project or the worst parts of your How do you deal with that? Like following now. And with all the made to Twitter or X, as we call difference in how we approach what gets like retweeted, what algorithm. How do you deal with reach. Man. So I think the algorithm it and the team because before views and likes, right? It would like you know, get exposure. A tweets anyway, whatever you little bit. I think they changed something goes viral in the maximum. So it goes like before Now if something viral it gets But on the other side, often Yes You know and I have 300,000 So bizarre. It's weird, right? So I think they test in the Yeah, it's really bad. It's kind test, does this feed work or And I think how they test it, if you just tweet something watch the tweets, the people who through and they they count now Elon Musk said this, you know. something that comes from a perform well, they just don't become more extreme. And this of extreme Twitter because you get far, really extreme to get, you lot of retweets or nothing. it's still important. And it buried beneath all the outrage less enjoyable platform, at Yeah, I think so like product I used to always, I always do this new feature. And they used lot of views. They get less, that interesting. It's kind of you know, so the long term kind little bit. But I do have faith you know. He can improve it. I Like they need to get more to become more like TikTok. Like they check every video they they pump it also. I think he's this and he wants to make the vidoes, of texts, but then you know, you have OKRs like the more users and now I think 500 million active users, work but it changes the vibe a still tried tweet whatever I anymore, I'll keep tweeting nobody cared 10 years ago. I'll That's exactly right It's about your own, you know, shouldn't do it for the audience Yeah. And the people who enjoy right? Like if you're just They'll go to your profile and They will maybe not seen in the so I think man, like don't be do like the five things you need verse 24. Number three will surprise you, Number 3 will shock you. Yeah, one thing interesting. He also now you can write blog posts. Yes These blog posts by definition of seconds. Right? These do work a blog platform. So man, a lot writing blog posts now on Yeah, I've seen this too. And of medium to long form video just keep watching it a couple interesting. But that's the Now you need to take YouTube For a seconds, right? You won't Mr. Beast style and you need now on Twitter as well if you feels it's different. And maybe as we had earlier, indie hacking dead. We all that kind of the new. Right? It's all just Yeah, it feels like it's but you You know, where a lot of things Yes definitely COVID, of course. effects was more 2021, big cycle. Now look at the honestly, the cycles are usually say seven year cycle, you can cycles usually seven years Contracting economic cycles? I don't know. Is that the same? I think it has name Yeah. But also like economic cycles, too. Yeah Like when there was a recession hipster coffee shops pop up in vividly. It changed the culture and it changes fashion. You there's definitely big cycles is part of this new cycle, all gonna go full again and think yeah, again, don't be embrace and reinvent yourself always need to reinvent Yeah, I think you're right. It Now, everybody has very limited pulling at it from all sides. I this YouTube thing too, right? good YouTube video. It was And the day after that, she viral, it's now had like 200,000 what she's doing. It was really video on how to do an intro to idea is to make it absolutely video, what you're going to do give a bit more than they trying to get people to feel attention for a longer time. But that's like a tweet, right? about it and I did this and then to do it yourself. You know, it Yeah. And it's required because amongst other people who are attention. It's just a new way had a time where we wrote email came along. And then we have this. And this is I with. But the attention economy has less attention. Like you used to became TV shows. And it became Next will be like, just one know, like, I don't know. But now I feels both because you Rogan has three hour podcasts things. And it might take me bit here. And next I listen to the clips, you have TikTok clips You have this outlier, you know, economy of both sides. So Yeah, that makes that makes a the you should be zigging when right? That kind of thing. Now the people who really care about short term stuff and even for still do the clips so you get Exactly! Yeah, it's the more I do like of and newsletter, whatever I do. I all on based on the same ways of distributing the same lesson here, right? That's depending on the medium, like YouTube or whatever, you just for people to consume it. Yeah, I think you can learn a influencers even if you don't like, outrageous stuff. Like, I for example. They, he says, controversial and too much, you parts is quite balanced. Like he what actually what I think. Man, but there's something to be things that are quite packable person that can package their probably well and then go for and this person will get more make a proper sentence first to good at writing tweets and even is becoming like an integral. not, right? Because if your famous and you sell products. you know? I don't know if I'm Well, me too, but we're both we're trying, we're in the arena Yeah, exactly. A lot of the things you say, a about like, just, you know, you get a lot of people to turn your feel about that, like in Man, it's great. It's like, it's amazing. And, man, what do you know, controversial stuff Right Yeah, for sure. To a lot of people and of get like, even like, you know, and chat like, man, what you unacceptable. I'm unfollowing say this about this framework, People get really triggered. really funny. It's like, but you game. You know, man, it sounds it's you cannot take seriously it as a normal conversation But people who are smart, they conversation. But if you have the other side is just shouting. changes you I think and you have personality in real life, you does a little bit of course. But outweigh the negatives. You made Like most of my friends, I met on Twitter. A lot of famous really cool stuff. They DM me like wow, super cool. Like, man, because when I used to make Fresh was very important figure startup tool called DM and we talk about a lot of my drum, bass idol. You know, time I'm still shocked. So and I you read controversial stuff you get a lot of attention and Twitter, we don't understand. a platform and he's doing a show it's a show kinda everything with a grain of salt, to say things honestly. I don't Yeah, I guess, if you have authentic representation is just things, right? To share these them. You just you don't become know. with every single thing or is of every opinion. You just say And you try to be honest and controversial, but of course it there's so many people. They with you. So then it becomes by it's not really controversial, you get scared and most people they start tweeting like basic interesting anymore. And I think follow me is because they know And I write whatever I think and like this yeah, but I like to frameworks or something and I hear what people like when that and I changed my opinions. weekly held. I do change my it's a stage it's like a podium, inevitable that it becomes a make it and you have people like very cool. And he gets a lot of talk more about like, love, world and everybody loves each it's not really my personal saying what I think. I want to don't want to become fake, you he chooses love. I choose more on my tongue. Like it's a German put that on Twitter, I tried to know. I don't like to be Yeah, that's perfectly fine. And tweets. I know that when you controversial, it comes from an is the way you think about it. talk about it. And I know what I It's very, authentically you. really smart way to building an want to call it, or just have a presence, is just to not hide behind the things you say. That's so difficult because and they hate you for your see these breakdowns on Twitter, meltdown because they get so Me too. Yeah, I think we both lists and followers. And I think like four people saying, I'm This is enough, right? And it's to that because people and I'm something 30 people say, this is this sucks. And all I focus on 30 other people that really That's typical. Yeah Yeah, it's really bad. But hey, think your Twitter account is just your honesty, sharing your daily coder entrepreneurial absolutely worth sometimes fights with other people who whatsoever, but a lot of like people to go to follow you would you like people to go to it, and the projects that you're I think Twitter, X now you know, for having me. And I'm big fan I'm a big fan of you, man. It's Thank you, man! It's an honor to years for us to have a chat be got to talk about all of this looking forward to seeing like journey, if that is still what It's been a pleasure. Thanks for takes you in the future. And things in public. You're a role so much. Thank you for having me. And that's it for today. Pieter sell his AI businesses right place for him to list briefly thank my sponsor for and it's not gonna be hard this the whole time. You're a solid SaaS product, you acquired you're getting consistent That's the SaaS dream, as Pieter's AI tools. The problem whatever reason, maybe lack of interest, and you just feel your business. In Pieter's case, things are gonna go, right? Is around in a couple months? Can I myself? Or should somebody take this point, in many cases, is that you buckled down, reignited business, not just in the and you marked a new sales and whatever. Six months down the that you made all that money, revenue, you've built this hyper is unfortunately not as simple you might find yourself in might founder is facing this crossroad times, the story that follows is of inaction and stagnation until less and less valuable over time So if you find yourself here personal story is likely headed consider a third option. And acquire.com. Because your time today is a pretty you have. Acquire.com is free to founders already. So go to for yourself if this is the business right now. Thank you so much for listening today. You can find me on books and my twitter course support me and the show, please that would be really the podcast in your podcast rating and a review by going to It really makes a massive you show up there, can rate and show up in other people's feeds. get to learn from people like help the show. Thank you so much day and bye bye.