Today I'll share what's on my iphone and work and productivity through your phone. And limit and have a healthy relationship to your first things first. I am a minimalist, so my phone on the case because this case is biodegradable and the description below. It's made from flax seeds to limit my phone use I do use it quite a lot. I it for contacting my friends. So I really want my the most on the first page. My favorite apps Keeper. Now Focus Keeper is a great app because And it reminds you to take breaks. Now that is app I will not take breaks when I work. I find it remind me every 25 minutes to take a break and which is so important for my mental health. And so Another app I use daily is the Moon app. This cycles. Now the moon cycles are very important and practice hard exercise on the new moon and the so another way to keep track of my period is rituals I like to do on a full and new moon. best and pretty much only free app I've in a simple and just straightforward way. Another least travel a lot is Happy Cow. I think Happy Cow paid apps but Happy Cow is just life-changing. It you're in and you can also connect with other that you have tried. Living abroad and traveling second year in Auckland, it really is a lifesaver. find an organic store, organic bakery or, a find that on Happy Cow. I really recommend this people. I think they even added like a dating and way to connect with new people through veganism or spiritual app I really like is Insight Timer. I I found that is 1. Free, and 2. Also has a timer important. If I ever do a guided meditation I will I really recommend you to check her out for divine meditations. Then I also have youtube I get really inspired following these people so the front page has like everything that is fun and the second page this is like where I have my work And I also have my social media apps here. I and currently the only platforms I use really, account but, I only have one contact on there and way for us to speak daily. Since she's in Sweden to keep in touch without having to Face Time for Upwork since I'm a freelancer. I also use Slack with your clients. And this is the only app I I also have two apps for crypto. There are so your phone and they're actually easier than the have the crypto.com app where I buy crypto. Now, is that they have these missions which you can funny. And then I also. It's super easy to connect that only works on desktop and it's super easy and the app. And then the last app I use daily tip before there's a setting in iphone where you And you can get them to like a sleep really like this. I have been using this for like wake-up alarm that I can use that doesn't stress keep it super minimal. I also tried to not spend am working on there. But, I at least try to make want to get stuck doing things on my phone that good. So speaking about that, I really want to your notifications on your phone. I mean like, notifications on your phone. You need to turn them more stress we have the less productive we are. efficient at work or at your passion like YouTube to work smarter and not harder. So because of And I also don't have notifications for any of my Just go into settings and remove them there. from turning off notifications is also to turn have your bluetooth on. I really don't like the body. So I always have my bluetooth off. Another roaming. I currently don't have a phone plan so I my data roaming off especially if I'm driving. the data on your phone will constantly try to find is actually stronger and there is more radiation the time which I think is a really good idea to Now, I completely understand that you might something. So turn the phone off put it in the I see so many people walking with their phones. and people are walking holding their iPhone. And again, it's the radiation. It's holding on to your there. So if it buzzes or, if it makes a noise you because we really want to take in what's around than just being so focused on our phones. The important for healthy phone use is to not sleep and I think so many people don't understand how for their mental health. So here are my best and I have the phone in another room. This really have to walk out into the other room. And it this also goes throughout your day. When I'm my phone next to me. I try to keep my phone It really creates this dependence where you need and it can be really addictive. So I understand really important. Because we really need to Without the need of checking a phone. We also need we dinner, eat lunch. We also need to learn to that's easily being forgot about in our modern health. Another tip is to have one phone free day on Sundays I will have a phone free day. I won't just not check it. Another tip I really like is to example I have my phone on airplane mode during off and then I can for example, say to myself, to again gives a sense of calmness in my mind that, at 10 am.&quot; And nothing really happened. So I think us slowly and steadily that our phone isn't like talk about productivity and working from my phone I also really believe that productivity is, &quot;less work and more focused and mindful work rather than That's actually non-productive, non-efficient time off is one of the best ways for me to be don't feel like it. I used to definitely be on my and not be on my phone. I try to mainly use my FaceTime my sister and my friends who don't live despite not being in the same country. Another healthy phone use and she said, &quot;Will you remember heard this I tried to think and, I think, &quot;Will I play Animal Crossing for example and, I used to then I realized I would also play it at home. And 20 years when I die, 'Will I remember the moments remember the moments where I just sat in silence &quot;Being with my friends or, Skyping my friends much more valuable and important to me than not just about social media. Because this is not also the time I spent watching Youtube videos or, whatever it may be, checking the weather. In all my loved ones or, even in nature. So that was can be a productive tool to live in the modern for mental health. So I am really passionate about your phone. Thank you so, so much for watching. use your phone in the comments down below. And if you have any other video suggestions. Just And I love to make them they just take me a little videos like this please like this video. And also my channel. It means the world to me. Thank you so