Hello and welcome to another Coraline animation! Today, We've got TUNNEL VISION (heh) We're and eluded me for over a decade and a half: the Other World. And how it is even more dangerous than the Now, for this video, I'm using both the the book!) and this is all just in good fun, inner corners of these overactive mental corridors! The Ancient Corridor: The Greatest Threat There are times in the book (and then later I thought the tunnel could be a reflection controlling it to lure Coraline into the Other (It has the power to accordion in and out, Other world, and LONGER when she is trying It appears as thought the Other Mother's are able to scamper through it, unharmed, HER passageway. And in the movie, it looks like it loses it's loses her power of illusion too. Where it was first bright and glowy (and the over the movie to feel like a cluttered and over her illusions and appearance). I also thought, "Hey, this tunnel could Or the deepest Well itself!" However, all those theories go right out the of the book, as Coraline is trying to escape "She knew that if she fell in that corridor Whatever that corridor was was older by far It was deep, and slow, and it knew that she Not "whatever was in that corridor" but So, this tunnel, is a MORE DANGEROUS ENTITY My gut feeling is that she is afraid of it, magic and might. It is outside of her domain, which includes side of her own door. (I think she seeks the key to escape as well.) but Here's my theory: The Other Mother is tract (?) (trust me, its anatomy is confusing) can as it falls into the more ancient monster's Not UNLIKE a spider, spinning webs between what it can in the larger world... And THAT spider theme is pretty prevalent OM spins Illusions and false promises, eventually and "things" in the Other World that she clung on and around them. But just WHAT is this beast? Honestly, it could be many different things, But what we do know: This thing is ALIVE. And it is SENTIENT. And it is HUN GRY. I've covered the book's description of that we know that, whatever it is, this tunnel I'm going to take all of these attributes be... First off, let's talk about the glowy-lure-you-in There are some predators that lure prey with I'm thinking angler fish of the deep sea, to lure smaller prey into their death jaws. Kinda like moths and mosquitoes drawn to those Anyway, so this Thing's throat glows. I'm calling it a throat because, well look Mouth throat portal region. Ok. So anyway, keep this glowing part on the back is no glowing, but I thought it worth mentioning. Our first encounter with the tunnel in the on to a dark hallway...There was a cold, musty smelled like something very old and very slow." Ok, so there is no light source, no heat source potential decay, nothing has been here in I usually associate that with basements or This thing is ancient, and slow to move or Creatures that come to mind: tortoises, snakes, This description holds, when Coraline leaves something that is not the Other mother in On page 47: "Coraline took a deep breath voices whispered and distant winds howled. She became certain that there was something and very slow." We've now added distant WIND to this mysterious A far-off pair of lungs, if you will. This thing is slowly awakening - its breathing I think those strange voices are either the interestingly, this ancient beast's victims intercept. Next time we're in the tunnel, Coraline 59): "A cold wind blew through the passageway." 59: "She took her first step down the dark She could smell dust and damp and mustiness." "She heard something moving in the darkness not tell. It seemed as if it was keeping pace with her, Let's dissect this. The WIND is no longer faint, but very much Whatever was sleeping is now even more awake In addition to musty dusty smells, we now liquid must be involved somehow, either leaking could be an underwater creature... or an underworldly That presence that keeps pace with her could could be the expanding and contracting of the length of it's body... step by step. Or it could be something else entirely... On that same trip in the passage, Coraline before (Pages 59-60): "Coraline was going it a lot shorter walk last time?' when the snuffed by someone's hand. There was a scrabbling and a pattering... She put out one had... and felt something and her face." Ok. It could be that that scrabbling and pattering like the hands on the cover... something that out like a wind would have. Magics?!). Also, now we first encounter the spider web in the book. Maybe it's that Coraline is seeing through power, or we finally see the metaphorical Here too, we see that the tunnel can seemingly or a neck compressing. My logical mind is still on snakes, turtles, Cool. But then..... A wrench. A COSMIC wrench. SO MUCH of the tunnel transformation happens escape to the real world through the corridor. (Page 133) "It was colder in the corridor, day." Ok cool, it's still well, cool, in here. And REALLY WINDY (I mean, "breathy") now Door but "pulling it closed was like trying And then she felt something from the other That "something from the other side" is "far away wind," then "right here and fighting Coraline. It is worth mentioning for counter-points which she uses once after Coraline finds a her sand-glass-wind (there were no wailing malice). This Thing is WAKING UP. errr okaaaay.... Greeeaat. Wait. What's this?! In just two pages, this thing has ALTERED (On 135) When escaping, "Coraline turned fast as was practical, though the dark corridor, It was an uphill run, and it seemed to her anything could possibly go." Ok, so where the jaunt INTO was "shorter Like a body or neck stretching out to ensure It also rotates up, like it is lifting its system. OH! It's not "cool" in here anymore, either felt warm and yielding now, and, she realized, fur. It moved, as if it were taking a breath." She snatches her hand away from it, more "Winds out to the wall for stability: "This time had put her hand in somebody's mouth." There is a WHOLE LOT going on here. Temperature change from cold to warm. Windy breathing. A texture change from downy fur to all of Hold up. Are we in a small intestine? Are those fine downy furs really Villi and Dang, we really are in "the belly of the towards a mouth entrance. Gross still, sure, but closer to the exit Ugh anatomically this does not make sense... Ugh, scratch that, ok so let's just say Like, the cavern walls woke up and grew fur... mouth?! Or are there MANY furry some-things pigeon-holed My earthly experiences very much exclude this all those distant voices whispering from earlier It could be old victims, or else many many This whole thing reeks of ancient shapeshifting Dare I say,.. ELDRITCH magics? What? That's quite a leap. Is it though? I cannot adequately rationalize the physicality book, I mean, here's where I'm at trying move, quick to change form, and potentially AN underground/UNDERWATER SERPENTINE ANGLER Haha naw just kidding. Even that can't change form like we need cute taboot! But just doesn't have that ominous creepy I think it's honestly some combination of more spooky and under/otherworldly than physical. My gut is on "cosmic maw" or something It's clearly alive, and very much a different than the Other Mother. So, we turn to Lovecraft. Errr... if you are unfamiliar, that's some back in the day. It is rife with gargantuan impossible beings, worms, terrifying tornadoes with maws and on this planet we call home.Cthulhu, for example. Anyway, back to our tunnel, it seems more More Monstrous. More Lovecraftian than any creature in our It's a liminal space between doors, and, difficult to contain. Now I REALLY WISH Coraline hadn't let that I think the key belongs to the Tunnel. Or was made to contain the tunnel. And now... the tunnel beast has the literal There are two doors (that we know of), but the OM covets it for herself. This makes me think it is not hers to begin greater. To gain more power or to escape herself from Or to level-up her own cosmic status from YIKES. Ok so let's snap back from really cool cosmic tunnel could likely just be a literary device is on her journeys to and fro. When she needs to be brave and is steeling sooner than she would have liked (the tunnel trying to escape, it was an uphill struggle, of how emotionally exhausted and terrified Etc. But, sometimes it is way more fun to think Letting the imagination run wild and free. Life is more fun with excessive mental imaginings, So, just what is the most ancient tunnel? Is it literary insight into our main character's Is it merely a passageway between worlds? A portal? Is it the deepest well itself, perhaps? Or is it something much more sinister, more time forgot? Whatever it is, it is a far greater-scale beldam magics... although I'm not sure I'd And so, our splunk into the cosmic horror is at a close. Thanks for jumping in with me! But what are some of your thoughts? Do you have a favorite Eldritch entity yourself? Let me know in the comments below! Heya cool bookworms and movie nerds! Nice to see you! I hope you enjoyed this little adventure. I am cooking up something new already, so hot! Seriously though, thank you for watching, Goodbye!