Fashion has had to constantly evolve. But the industry radically changed in the 1990s when brands like Zara, H&amp;M and Topshop led They mastered the process of taking and mass producing them in Fashion had never been this cheap Then, at the turn of the century took this model to the next level, shortening Industry experts call these online-only brands, And now we're in a new era: Real-time retail. Companies disrupting the status quo And this era's leader? Shein launches around three to four thousand a very huge amount and the product is at pretty low It is very fast and the products are updated much more frequently and at a higher In April 2022, it was reported that fashion which would make it more valuable Guys I placed a $500 Shein order Y'all! The Shein package that So let's dig, how did Shein beat Shein is a very secretive company and and, as I learned through my reporting, it was pretty much We did find two consultants who had studied the The CEO and founder has only been seen a couple times and yeah he really This mysterious CEO is Chris Xu, a former digital marketer experienced Even though Shein states it was founded in 2012, several sources say its origin story That's when Xu and his an e-commerce business that reportedly sold everything It was here that Xu seemingly refined the business model In 2011, Xu and his partners parted ways, and the domain that would Investment began to pour in and so did sales. At the same time, the world was being Apple's rivals are rushing their own versions And China's growing middle class played a huge role All of a sudden everybody is getting smartphones the computer phase and the introduction to the Between 2009 and 2012 the number from 13 million to nearly 200 million, a more than 1400% rise. China overtook the U.S. to become This phenomenon fueled the rise of as Alibaba, JD.com and of course Shein. But unlike most of china's e-commerce giants Shein's focus is entirely on the outside world. However, a lot of the marketing tactics that to Chinese fashion brands that are operating in that are operating in the country. And so, if Shein were to target just the Chinese audience, and wouldn't be able to compete in terms of speed Shein's Chinese roots gave it another advantage too: As a mobile-first country with lax privacy laws collecting user information was easy. This created the perfect foundation By 2015, Sheinside had rebranded to Shein. It had collected an enormous amount of data and had developed a system to score websites At this stage I think Shein definitely has which enables pretty early identification so I think that's one of the critical key success factors of Shein In the same year, Shein shifted its supply chain operations center a major clothing manufacturing hub. Their office in Guangzhou is in close proximity to their factories Over time the company's reputation for a rarity in the industry, meant factories that would were eager to take on Shein's orders. And avoiding these minimum another competitive advantage: the lean model. We call it small order, quick response. So basically that means Shein places orders in adjust it based on the market performance. The suppliers will just produce 100-500 items as the first batch Where, if we compare that with usually it will produce over 100, 000 items so, by placing small orders, These products are then shipped This cuts out middlemen and Competitors making larger While the pandemic was devastating for most of Its sales generated an estimated and 15.7 billion dollars in 2021 and Shein In 2021, it overtook Amazon to become the and these users were spending But it hasn't been all smooth sailing. Even though Covid restrictions they only intensified at home And then there are the controversies. One of the downsides of using data is that it can sometimes see that: &quot;Oh, a particular blouse what if they just recreate the blouse in a cheaper way?&quot; Several smaller designers alleging that Shein had stolen their designs. This top is a knock off of my silk lace cami to the tee. This is the original design. But it is hard for like boutique clothing designers when their That wreaks havoc on the industry because to just really rake in all the profits that could have been And it's not just the independent designers. Shein has been sued by Doc Martens and selling them at a fraction of the price. It has been reported that Shein removed from and it has been reported that they have in relation to copyright infringement claims. Shein did not immediately respond to a statement to the Financial Times in 2021, saying the company takes Shein's ability to produce clothes at a rapid like Switzerland's Public Eye about the Its manufacturing process Shein told the BBC it has a strict immediate action if It has a lot of lack of transparency for Shein because if it wants it really has to come clear peace of mind about what is