Translator: Marta Palacio Hello. Hi. Today I want to challenge you. I want to challenge you The good news for you The words in the question The bad news is for thousands of years, people have been trying to answer People have dedicated they fought for this question, and sometimes, they had given their lives And the question is this: I'm not talking about like I'm not talking about an academic about what freedom is. I'm talking about What does it mean in your own life? I know first hand that this very question because it's the exact question asked ourselves three years ago. It was a little of an awkward timing It was the night we brought my daughter As new parents, we struggled for to try to get her to go to sleep After that, we wandered like zombies As we sat down, I turned to her and said, &quot;You know, honey, I need (Laughter) Which I've learned, is that's the most terrible way (Laughter) And I said, &quot;I want to talk You can imagine what her expression was, I can't repeat some of it here today. But after we started we realized that the timing was actually in our favor. Because if there was one thing it was clarity. It was the ability how we were living our life and whether that was congruent It started for us in our financial life. Our financial life had degraded, into a simple question. And that's, &quot;What item in our apartment Have you ever had this discussion? &quot;Do we need to upgrade the couch, or maybe we should save up &quot;Should we switch location or maybe let's just get This was our financial life at that time. And then, it should be no surprise We were in our young 20s and not even counting the tremendous we're 18,000 dollars in consumer debt to start off our new marriage We had four credit cards, we had two automobile loans. We had a loan for the jewelry We had a loan from family. I used to joke we were collecting loans, and that we had one for everything And guess what? We were house-shopping. It was the most hectic time of our lives. I'd just started in a new business, Courtney had just graduated from college, she was starting a classroom there couldn't have been And we were shopping for a mortgage? This didn't make sense. As I stepped back, and I was given from bringing Milligan home - I saw it was because that was that we were living our life by. It wasn't a script that we chose. It chose us because we were unwilling If you're not willing to answer there's somebody, a company, that will be more than happy You'll wake up one day and realize that you're living life It goes a little something like this, In elementary and middle school, We learn how to learn better. But we go on, we go to high-school, and if you get good grades you get to have the privilege of getting tens of thousands In college, you do a lot of stuff, hopefully, you get this degree, and with that comes of a steady, decent-paying job. After that, with that job, you can get an apartment If you weren't able you surely can now, Two to three years later, you may get a promotion, You continue this cycle until you reach when all your hard work pays off. There's nothing unless you don't want it. We recognized at that kitchen table that we were living life and we did not want it. So we said, &quot;What do we want?&quot; That took some time to explore, but we figured out We wanted to wipe away that was in our apartment. All of this acquisition of the next thing, We wanted to just wipe it all away, so we were going to sell what we could carry with us. We were going to pay off that represented our most and we were going to spend the year That was our passionate goal that we set. One year later, my wife Courtney This is me and my daughter Milligan. She's three and a half now, We're sitting on a plane, in the runway The year between the kitchen table We had to analyze a lot of things that wasn't the one it wasn't the one that we projected. We had to change a lot of habits, but we were able to do it. When we boarded this plane, we had two backpacks and none of the 18,000 dollars And we were on our way to Australia. From Indianapolis, we head to Chicago, lay over in LA, we head to Sydney. From Sydney, we went up which is a city that is just off Twenty-eight consecutive hours (Laughter) I'd show you some pictures but we made a marital pact that no living human (Laughter) But I will show you I'd like to just sit up here but I'm just going to show you Again, taken by my wife who, you can see, is a great photographer. This was off the coast of Townsville, It's a little island On Magnetic Island, after taking a ferry to get out there. We went on an about 30-minute hike, and through the hike, we saw a koala, a mum and a baby koala in a tree. It was like we were in a movie almost. When we got to the top of the hike, we looked out over and it just really hit me. It's a feeling I hadn't felt before, I realized that we were living our dream. Don't get me wrong, there was a long list of things even at this point, We were still learning and exploring. But for better or worse, we were the ones writing the script; we were the ones I realize not everyone in this crowd wants to sell their stuff That was our definition of freedom It's even changed now. But what I do know is that you need to define and you need to take steps Where does it start for most people? It starts right here, with your crap. Look at the crap, it's almost overflowing! It's almost overflowing into the cars Right now, it maybe seems but the more I think about it... How many of you have friends that have garages, or spare bedrooms, that look not too far away from this? It's really not even that extreme. It's almost more of the norm. But I have a question for you: what happens when this person What happens when they're offered What happens when they need to adapt either physically, to any situation that comes up in life? The answer is at best they're restricted. They're held back, they're clogged, from adapting to any sort of change because of the amount of crap But we do have an out; that we do if we have to make we put it here. (Laughter) Do you realize we've been creating an entire multi billion dollar industry so we can make a transition (Laughter) Think about it. Right now, there's 2.2 billion in the United States alone. This is mind-blowing. Every man, woman, and child just like this, under covered storage space So, what's the deal? Why are we so obsessed yet so reluctant to hold on How have we bought in to this addiction? I think it's because The myth is in the pursuit of a living environment is going to grant us security. Most of us take it so far even to say And in the pursuit of these things, You can tell who's successful, You can tell who's hip and who's not. You can tell whose garages look like and whose don't. So we start to really identify ourselves But the truth that we realized, and that most people end up waking up is that more stuff, and certainly, isn't going to grant you security, and it's certainly In fact, we found As Courtney and I went to sell as we were planning to go on this trip, I'm often asked a common question, &quot;Did you guys sell anything &quot;Did you ever sell anything or, &quot;Did you ever sell anything and you had to get back?&quot; And every time I'm asked this question I try to genuinely think about it. I'm even thinking about it right now. And the answer is always the same, &quot;No.&quot; Not a single item. Not a single time that I sold something, and I'd be like, &quot;Man, Not a single time that I sold an item, (Laughter) It was the opposite. As we sold layers and we felt the weight We felt more flexible, more agile, easier to bounce back that was going to come into our life. We were more free We weren't held back Not only that but we started and realized that these people's identity Their identity should be based It's not about collecting it should be about We should identify with people based on a series of experiences But I want to talk to you a little more We're all familiar and it's not even that American anymore, There's this idea you're able to buy That much is still true. As much as I've outlined and suggested that consumerism is a problem if the equation stayed this linear, it would be easy to deal with. You want more money, what do you do? You buy less. You want to switch jobs or work less? You buy less. Sounds simple, almost too simple. And it really is. But over the last 20 or 30 years, We've added in a piece to this puzzle We've found a way, that we no longer we no longer have to work we can just tap right into it. And of course, you know So we buy; in order to buy without working for it, We do this at a young age, Debt has been around in some form or another. But we've perfected it We've perfected the daily use of it. We've perfected it What that does is and our justification for this is we're going to be going to work and then we'll pay off So it keeps us going back to work. That would be great if we liked our jobs. Most of us don't like our jobs. In fact, most of us We don't have the flexibility to switch Not only we have to pay the bills now, So we go back working longer Is there a better equation than spending the majority working a job you hate to pay debt It's no wonder we're stressed out. It's no wonder we're overworked. How do we deal with that stress? There's two ways we eat, and we buy. We escape the daily grind by buying. We deserve it, we work hard. Some of us buy clothes, most of us buy vacations to warm places But we didn't have money That's why we're in debt. So how do we pay for this escape? And you can see that this is that has millions of you trapped, My message for you today is that your life is too important Nigel Marsh had a TED talk in Sydney, and he summed this up He said, &quot;There are thousands living lives of quiet, working long, hard hours, to buy stuff they don't need (Laughter) When I first heard him say this it almost knocked the wind out of me. It actually almost hurts to repeat this But I want you to imagine. Imagine what your life would be like, how much more fulfilling if starting today, you made a commitment to start collecting experiences I want you to imagine how much more opportunity if you removed the stress I want us all to sit here and imagine how much more if each and every one of us not because our alarm clock went off but because we were excited to work we loved, to a business that was based The problem is complex, Remove the excess Remove the crap from you life. Remove the daily reliance and you'll be more free to start doing That's the path to security. That's the path to happiness. One more observation that I have for you: do you realize that we're the freest people Do you realize that you walk amongst the freest human beings What are you doing with that freedom? How are you utilizing this amazing gift It starts by answering one question: what does freedom look like to you? It's the answer to this question, your own unique answer to this question It's your own unique answer that has the potential to change the world So my challenge for you today is to go out and when you do, Thank you. (Applause)