Good morning Anazala family. So today we're supposed to Don't talk to me No, you don't talk to me. guys We're supposed to have a before going to school But this girl has been non-stop fighting. Because You're trying to ruin the house. I'm not trying to ruin the house Okay, So guys basically the kids are We wanted to do an extreme back-to- And Anas is saying that I have ugly taste. Guys, her taste is ugly. Oh my God. Hey. They're gonna think I So let's tell them what we're doing today. So today we're gonna do two room makeovers. One for Mila's room and But it's gonna be team boys -which is versus team girls. She will design Mila's room and And at the end of the day, You guys and And I promise you guys, you will think Mila, who do you think Me or mommy? Mommy! Wow! Look how I dress her, I get all her stuff. Okay, girls versus boys. Noah, who do you think Daddy or mommy? Mommy! No, bro! No! Okay, okay, wait, wait, I'll convince them. But you're on my team. Can you say that daddy's better, please? No! Please. No. Please. No. Please. No. I wanna cry. I'll give you a point for your hard work. Ah! Okay, now I feel bad. It's okay, honey. It's okay. If you guys lose, then I agree. Whoever's the worst designer, based on Okay, okay, wait. On one condition. What? If your room loses from now on and forever, I'm always gonna pick I agree. okay, let's go Okay, Okay, are we ready? So guys, we're just gonna show you the before we leave so you guys can imagine Okay guys, so this is Mila's room I still but I want to do the whole thing different Okay, so you're changing it around? Yes, but the bed is gonna you're keeping the bed? Yeah, I'm taking down the bed No, you're not. Yeah, I am. Why'd you walk with your shoes? Okay, and this is Noah's room. Hey! Okay, film me I'll show them. So guys, we're about to make this room Oh, wow. Noah, you're gonna love You're gonna change your mind But I still team mommy. Yay! Well, maybe if you didn't people would know that you I swear I'm gonna win, honey. They're gonna So Mila, who's team are you on? Team Mommy Why! What team are you on? Team Daddy Yeah One down okay now we're gonna shopping guys, so we just got to Ikea Hey Liam! How are you hey Ronan, okay, so Ronan's gonna And Liam is gonna be on team Asala. You think I have good taste, Ronan? Why are you attacking Alright Asala, Mila and Liam, So Liam's gonna help her with filming. And then Ronan and Noah and me are Why is a girl not on our team? You don't think I can help you guys, girl? Dang! Who's got the real sass here? Yeah, look, he's even That's not what they are. okay can we move on so you guys are gonna go listen with me without with me okay honey you're losing we're gonna see the slime on your just to switch your hair up a bit okay guys timer starts now each team gets 20 minutes one two three go All right, so my game plan, There's no game plan? No. I Eyeball stuff. You know, real designers. No thought process. Because I have this style in my eye. I don't know how to explain it. It's going to come together. Okay? You're not looking for a color or a... Pink. Pink. We're still doing pink. Noah, what's the color Blue. Blue. Okay, blue. Let's go I have an idea. You're smart, so we can do this. So remember last year when we had that little drawing thing. You know where it is? Yes, for school. You know the board with the chalk? Oh, the white boards? Yes. I know where that is. Okay. Oh, wait. I kind of like this desk. What do you think? No, no, no. No, I think it's a bit too plain. You know where it is, Mom. Let's go on the elevator. Bro, Asala can't win this. It's not going to happen. Salish is going to decide Whoever loses gets slime. That's actually true. You right? Oh the whole team. Oh, yeah, you're with me bro Yes Now we're gonna win yes you are Okay, I know where it is, It's right here Yes do we color? This is what I'm talking about Yeah! for school that's perfect Yeah look It's literally two and this side is all chalk, How much is it? $20? That's a good price. what else? I'm thinking... What are you looking at? This is a back to school room. So we need like desks, we need Workstation, maybe like Yes, we need books. Yeah shelves look at the selves! Oh, there are shelves Oh my god, that's actually cool. So are we good at drilling or...? Yeah, we'll be fine. Believe in yourself. We should get like a light like this. If they have one in white or pink. okay oh my god this is so cute okay so i'm gonna get this guys and it could turn pink... okay guys so anything i'm gonna so we're getting this all right okay there's a crib here hey noah do you want a crib? you want a crib? I need something blue. okay he needs blue okay yeah okay we'll take this okay okay so okay here we go when we go out we get it okay look at this Look at these I want this. No, I got that. I want this. Oh that's sick! Grab it. Grab it! You can't grab it Take a picture. I took a picture. Let's go in. Let's go in. They stole our idea. No, no. We took it first. Yeah, I took it. I already took a picture. Yeah, we already got it. Okay. I say we get this. Okay, we'll get this. So let me take a picture. And then this. What is that? It's paint because I'm going to Like crayons, paint, markers. Okay. Yeah. Okay, what else? So I think, you know, what we should do? we should look for the things they're Good idea, bro. Good idea. Do you have your phone? Yeah. I need to take a picture. Stop! He's such a copycat. He literally just took Let's go Oh my god, what did you do, dad? You know you can't cheat because you lose and you get us slimed No, no, no, we're not, we're not gonna We gotta go far from them So guys, we gotta go far from You're right We gotta go far from them So we just spent 6 minutes, 14 Okay, maybe there's something here Mom! I love you! I love you! You hear him? What's happening? Aww, I love him. Okay, okay, okay. Don't you love me? I love both of you. Thank you, bro. Stop screaming. Aww. This, this, this, yes. What do you need? Give me that! I need the blue thing. Okay, he's taking a picture of It's blue! Get me the blue thing Yeah, we got it. We got it. We ordered it. When we take a picture, we so guys this is perfect for school because anytime Mila finishes they could go in these Noah Noah look at this blue table Okay get it for me okay we're gonna get it, Let's go! a 100 bucks? is it actually 99? no no maybe it comes with chairs okay how many minutes do we have Ronan? 12 minutes 12 minutes left. Anything here? I hear them you guys Okay, no nothing. Oh here! No, it's just more. Man, there's not a lot of pink here. Yeah, what's happening? Here maybe here? Anything here like decoration? Yeah, yeah, like what if we You see the posters? But this one's blue. No, I need something flowery. No, no, come this way, here. Look at this! now we're talking. Noah, do you like this? There's a TV, look at this TV. Noah, do you want a TV? Is it blue? No, it's not blue, it's black. It's black. Actually, we can get it Okay, so we can get it? Yeah. Okay, wow. Bro, if he has a TV in his room, We have 10 minutes left. 10 minutes left. 10 minutes. Follow mommy, hurry up! Man, there's not a lot I think there's still desks. We didn't reach the desk. Mommy, we can put all my Oh, these are so cute. Those are really nice. These are nice, actually. For pencils, markers, crayons, All the school supplies. This is for crayons. This is for markers. Oh, you're already organized. Okay, so you want four? Let's get four. We should have got a cart. Yeah, take a picture. We'll come back. Okay, I'll take a picture. Okay, got it. Perfect. Oh, there's a desk. Look at these. Imagine we get these and Yeah Dad let's put no girls Okay, let's write no girls Okay. Okay. We're getting it Quick take a picture Okay, here we go. He took a picture. Look at this chair!I Know it's not It's purple. It's like lavender. Try it Try it Is it comfy? Yeah It's even swirls. and If I get bored when I'm working Okay, so we get this pencil light for school? You're right. Oh, that's cool. Okay. I think okay I want the green pillows get that blue like Spider-Man Dude I'm supposed to be designing the I think Spider-Man's designing the room I know, okay, take a picture of the Oh, these can go in her That's so cute. Like on the desk. Yeah, those could be nice. I'll get this. It's for my desk for school, Oh my God, Liam, look. No, okay. Now you're just Tea time. Bro. Yeah, when she's like doing her homework. What kids are having tea time? Two plus two equals four. What? And then she takes a That's for you, not for her. Fine, fine. Okay, now what else we get? Hey, I'm supposed to be But It's gotta be in Spider-Man color. Okay, okay. Look the red chair! Oh yeah, here we go. Here we go, chairs. Okay, what do you want? Get the blue and red. Okay, blue and red. And I want to get something pink for Mila. You want to get something for Mila? Yeah. Look there's a pink chair. He's so cute. We lost him man! We lost him. You can't get something pink. No, because I love her. And maybe she's getting something for me. &quot;Maybe she's getting something She's not gonna get anything. They're focused on winning Mila gave me a toy the yesterday. Oh, okay, okay. It's right here, right here. Oh, you're gonna put a Oh my god. He's something, huh? How you think Asala's doing, man? Listen, I'll give her that. She but I know if you let me be and design something nice, I This is also for all the boys out there. Team boys. Team boys. Okay, so we have seven minutes left Hurry up. We got a big portion of the room but guys just a heads up I didn't because I want to surprise you too, but we really took pictures of Well, what are they doing here? Look at these books, they're Those are very nice, let's get them You want to get them for him? yeah Aww so cute Okay, I guess Ready? I saw them just walk by us Mom, I love you! I love him. Can I have a hug? Oh, my love life. He's betraying us I'm so sorry he's doing your room. It's okay. Wow. Wow. Guys, I promise you my I Love You Mila Too! It sounds like Noah's doubting You're losing. Oh, watch out. Watch out. Where's Aldo? Oh my goodness, Mila. Look at this bed. I love it! Oh yes, I think we're Good night! It matches her outfit too, It's actually nice. Right? I'll take a picture of it in case. And I can even, when I read, I can g hey, your feet can touch the floor. Yeah, so I think this is a good bed. Why don't we buy it? Well, we'll see if we end up getting it. So far, so good. We got a bunch of stuff. I still need the desk. Guys, you forgot the timer! Yeah, you're right, the timer. The timer's ticking. The timer, spider-man Kun Fu Panda you want pandas too. Yeah Okay, so you want pandas I want to get that for Mila Can you stop thinking about Oh my god. I love you. I love you, too. I love you. Okay, you and get one more for me Okay. oh these are cute I'll take a Oh my god, I love it. This is so cute for Noah It is so cute for Noah I want to go give it to him. Let's go give it to him. Here, Noah. Aww. Thank you. I love you, Mimi. Love you. Okay, go, go, go, go to your team. Mimi, you forgot to give me a hug. Okay, give him a hug. Give him a hug. Aww. Another sweet hug I miss you. Love you. Love you. It's just so crazy. Yeah, that was pretty cute. So it's 17:55, so we have three minutes. Okay, two minutes. Two minutes, right there's a lot of cool things that we're we didn't show you yet we're out of minutes come on guys i really can't wait to oh Noah look at this That's sick! yeah here we go Mom i think this will match with my pillows. pink pillows okay perfect let's go let's go This is perfect for me Yeah this is actually really cool. We don't have time come on! Okay here we go one! And then, Yeah right here Here we go, 3 Here we go Okay Let's get it let's get this on there Yes And then this thing for the wall Her we go, yes! Okay This is really nice Do you want this guy's picture in your room? No It's kinda cool Only a picture of me and mimi There is so much cutness This is insane love By the way guys, I don't wanna show because I also wanna surprise you guys when Yeah, we did so much shopping There's a lot of stuff they Are you ready? Yeah. Who's gonna win? Us. Us, always us. All right, bro, we got 10 more seconds. 10 more seconds, guys. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Okay, let's get the sharks, let's get the sharks, Five. Four. Okay, we need this chair, just take a Two, one, time's up, time's up, time's up. I think I got everything. Okay, so obviously I didn't because I want to surprise you but I think I got everything. We just need one more store, and I'm set. Okay guys, so this is two hours and they passed by some other place. Oh my god, I'm actually so tired already. Okay, so here. Okay, you guys wanna see? No, don't show too much. No, we're gonna show them here. Yeah, but. Yeah, but we're not gonna show So we passed by a school so we got like a few Oh, yeah And that's why you'll see are actually kind of one two three, go! Okay, okay, this is it I'm just gonna say Anas copied me a lot I didn't copy you a lot Wow, but that's exciting, huh? the rooms are gonna be insane. They're gonna look really good. But I promise you say I promise you she's picking mine. Hey guys. Have you ever seen Asala slimed? No. Have you ever seen a Asala slimed? Uhhh... I always win. And you're about to be slimed today, honey. I promise you. Okay, so we're gonna start Yes. Okay, let's go! You know, you know that Salish Now it's 5, we have 3 hours to Isn't this cute? Can we stop moving things? Here we go. Okay, ready? Alright. This Dude, the rooms are gonna look different! Look at these! Ooh, he even copied me Honey, I didn't copy you, stop. Guys, I promise you, my room's gonna and so much better than hers. We have a lot of shapes, So here for Noah, and for Noah to know more. So here for Noah to know about the world. Oh, that's actually so cool. Comment below and tell us So 40 % of you guys, based on our But then we have Canada, We have Indonesia, Let us know what state you're from too. I'm from Ohio, Cali, Cali. Yeah, and you're... Ontario, Canada! Let's go! If You guys are from Canada *Insert Cricket Sound Here* Well, see how they feel about Canada. We need to show them I like Canada. It's just cool Yeah, we were just there. Look how she copied me. That's messed up, that's meddsed up! Look, look! come, come! She got a pink globe instead of the blue My god, have you ever seen a world that my world We have a lot of things in here There's dude. Do I tell them? Okay. No, no No, I'll tell I'm not gonna ruin their surprise. I know she gets mad at me whenever I ruin stuff. Okay, we shouldn't show them Okay let's go start unloading Come on let's go look You like my voice Liam? I love it Thank you that's real friendship Do you want me to be honest as a friend? No. It was beautiful. Please lie. I love friends who lie to me. There you go. Ow, ow, ow. This is were Asala's stuff. Hey, we're good. It's not our stuff. Don't tell anyone. Liam, are you gonna... Hi! Hi, potato. Who's the love of my life? I still love you even though... Who's the love of my life? I love you forever. Nothing happened in there. What happened? Nothing what? is he ruining my stuff? nothing happened in there if you cheat. I'm gonna cry. I didn't cheat. did he cheat? See you Liam! See the life I live? Stop we don't have time! School is starting in 4 days Okay, let's go. This is why he flunked. Salish finishes gymnastic 8 p.m.. Yeah I'll be ready. What about you? I'll be ready Take me out to California... where the houses made of gold... I thought you were gonna be... We'll be coming for that day You go from the love to this!? Here I come So guys I'm gonna take keep in mind the kids can't you can't peek so you and you know what's gonna happen after? What? You guys are gonna get a new room Let's get slimed! Okay, Asala is gonna get No, I'm not honestly it's gonna be really cool cuz the kids are gonna get What is this? Who bought this? Oh, a school bus! It's a magic school bus! Oh, wow. Guys, when I bought this, I didn't Okay, you guys can jump in. Ow! Okay, you guys can play with this. We're Okay! Say three, two, one! Let's go! Promise you can't leave the room! Liam, let's go. If I get slimed, you're getting slimed. No, I'm not getting slimed, If I go down, you go down with me. Asala we have three hours babe I know Let's go! I'm trying to be organized here. All right, let's do this. Oops, sorry about that, sorry about that. I forgot that Liam's the unorganized one. It's all gotta go, right? I'm on filming duty here to and they're getting mad at me. Don't block the alley Oh my god. Liam! Liam! That awas clean! Go, go! What is it? Is he my team? He wants to be slimed. Oh wow, that was on me. Okay, okay, here we go. We need the mattress. You need to take everything I am trying to win. I swear to God, you're going And we're going to do a lot So you either work hard We need the mattress. What is he doing? I need you to catch it. Go, go, go. Are you there? Yes. Where? Go. Ah! Maybe we should have hired a company. You almost took my wife out. Oh, boo boo, I love you. I'm Sorry, but you're gonna lose. look at the progress. Okay. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. AlrightOh look at her Alright gotta take out everything Ow I keep hitting my face Dude when the kids see the room when they see my room Okay Okay you gotta get the things out, come on. All right. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Oh, I don't want to do that anymore. Okay, guys, so also I have As we're going back to school, my mom She is still, right? She's still a public school teacher. And we're going to be nice to our teachers Guys, tomorrow at school, and say thank you for Aw, and get them a little gift. Yeah. We love all public school teachers, and so if you're in school Yeah Aw Liam that's actually cute. I Yeah, he has well emotions They come Did he just come out with his shoes Oh no! Oh he's about to die Okay guys, so we don't so you guys go there, and then I'll Liam! Oh Okay, you take him Oh, I'm about to put some hands now All right guys, so we're about and we'll come back to Okay, now it's my turn. Okay. Let's go What do we do first we Yes, okay, hey Liam Liam, here we go So we need to be faster more efficient better than all of them. Everything good? No, don't tell Asala I Think sometimes they Oh you're gonna tell Asala aren't you? I should go tell her Let's get this all the way out of here. Ok, here we go. Okay, so we're gonna take this with school posters and big things Yeah, like some books. We're about to change this room around. Here we go. Okay, so guys we're not You guys will go now and We're gonna see you guys like two where we surprise the kids and then Salish will judge who wins Today she's gonna pick us No question Alright guys fter 3 hours Are you guys ready to see your room? Okay, okay, let's go. Noah, Are you ready for your room? We're gonna show Noah wait If you don't like your room because daddy Yeah, that's right. Wow, Noah, are you not We have to see at the end. Oh, we have to see at the end. Okay, are you ready? Yeah! Okay, guys, we're just of how the room looked We're gonna show it to you now. Three, two, one. Okay, now they just saw the room before. Okay, now they just saw the room before. That looked really nice, right, guys? That looked really nice. No, no, no, no, what's coming Whatever you guys just saw, it's So we might have to put the room back. Hey Noah, your room is going What about me? Mommy did your room, so I'm sorry. Okay, 3, 2, 1... Woah! Pool Noodle! Pool noodle. What do you think of this Noah? Hey honey, honey, what do you think? Come on, come on. Truth? Okay, I'm not going to lie. Uh huh. Looks like a dentist office. That means it's looking clean, right? Dude. Asala, come on. All jokes aside. What do you think of this? It's actually really nice. Yeah? I didn't think you'd remove the bed. Dude, yeah. Cuz now Noah has space. Yes. He has so much space. Noah, look what this is. This is Noah's room, come check it out. Look show me show me how Go sit on your desk. I think I even love it. It's so nice Mila, you like it? Mila you like it? Yeah, I actually like it. I want to touch it. Oh, yeah This is amazing Here Noah look you could use this Okay, come on isn't that exciting Noah, what's the rating? Okay, Noah, give me a rating out of 10. Um, um, five and five. Five and five, that is 10 out of 10. That's a F. That's a 10. Five out of 10. Five. Mimi, it's time to see your room. Yeah. Wait, wait, wait. What's happening here? Yeah, what's happening? Freeze. Freeze. There's a plan. Okay, first rule, Mila, pink slippers. Oh, they have a whole entrance. We've prepared. Yeah. oh wow. Next we have the backpack Zamfam special because Mila can't go to school She can't go to study without Look at the presentation Ronan what is going on here? is that Ronan what is going on here? I double as a security guard. We lost Ronan Before you guys see Mila's room, Okay Mila, are you ready? Three. Two! Oh my god! This is amazing! Aw, this is actually crazy! What do you think? The bed! So guys, the first thing you see when along with the beautiful new bedding. That's actually really cool Look at the mattress. New bed, okay, that's actually We also thought about We wanted her to see all these &quot;our only limit is your What? what? We put a lot of hard work into this Mommy is getting slimed Yes, I agree Wait wait! Mom the lights not working. Yeah, the lights not where You know why, I purposely didn't Okay, we'll see. We'll Salish is gonna be judging Mila, what do you give this 11 out of 10. Whoa! Okay, okay. Well, Salish is gonna be So guys, just as a reminder, this is Mila's And then, wait, wait. Let me just give you a final tour of that And this is Noah's room. Please say your team Anas It's actually nice. I give it to you. Even if Salish said that please comment, Team Anas, Hi, Salish! How are you? Okay, hey guys, Salish is Okay. So, Salish, basically what's I think I'm a better designer than her, Yeah, obviously I'm better. Why? You're gonna know why. Okay, okay, okay So, you know how back Me and Anas decided to remodel and we're not gonna tell however I'm about to show you and then you're gonna decide you'll pick mine Salish whoever Saysay, whoever loses Okay, so anyways I'm going first we're gonna start but she doesn't know who remodeled it yeah we're not gonna say who did it okay? back up so she can see okay i'm backing up now Alright, do you see? Okay. so this is Mila's room, Okay? that's so cool we have the desk look at this that's perfect for Mila we got some motivational quotes on the wall okay now she sees Noah's room the next room okay all right That was so cute. that was Mila's room and now Are you ready? Alright, here we go. I'm gonna flip the camera. Alright, so this is Noah's room. We got Noah's room here. Look at that. It's like the same kind of vibes. We have some quotes here Show her how you have So did you see everything? Yeah, that's really cute. Now you're gonna decide Okay, decision time! Okay, are you ready? Okay, we're gonna put the camera here. Wait, wait. Okay, Salish, we're ready. Okay, tell us your honest opinion. Decision time! Okay, Liam, are you coming? I just want to say, Salish, So they were helping us in the room. Please choose the boys. Oh, you can't say who's who. You can't say who's who. Okay, three, two, one. The pink room. Oh, no! Oh no! I can't believe I won! I was so scared, I was like Oh honey, I'm blue, da ba dee. I'll try not to get myself. One, two. I don't understand why I keep losing, man. Team Asala. Please say that my room was better