Hey, it's Marie Forleo and you are watching and life you love. Now, if you want your work to make an impact most thoughtful and prolific teachers of our Seth Godin is an author, entrepreneur, speaker, Over the past quarter century he's taught leaders, and fans from all walks of life via He runs themarketingseminar.com and created He's the author of 18 bestsellers that have His latest book, This is Marketing: You Can't now. Seth Godin, thank you so much for coming back Marie Forleo, thanks for having me back. I thought I blew it last time. Here I am again. It's great. Are you kidding? You blowing it doesn't even like... it doesn't It's because you raise the bar so high. The work you put into it and the spirit is I adore you. Thank you. You guys, I know you just saw a cover. You saw it. This is Marketing, I'm gonna say this is genius, your friends, your loved ones, anyone who what they do. Seth, you have so many incredible books. Why this book, this topic, right now? Books are different than they used to be. There's so much work. It's a year, as you know or more. Then you got to go and bring it to the world. You just make a blog post, reach more people. Why not just make a blog post? Or why not publish it yourself? My last book I published myself. It did pretty well. There's something about a book that let's The three of us, we're all gonna read this You can't do that with a Ted Talk, you can't itself contained no batteries required. Here, read this. I run this seminar online called The Marketing I got to watch six thousand people go through and see what didn't. I said, "Oh, I should write this down." The book itself, once I made the course wasn't Then I said I'm willing to go through the Because if groups of people that want to make they're gonna disagree with a lot of what Fine with me. At least you're gonna talk about it. That's why it's worth the journey. That's really freeing for me even because rolling, I was telling Seth how I'm in the Can't wait. I love it. I'm gonna remember this. I'm like, highlighting this in my brain. People are gonna disagree with a portion and You say in the book and I'm gonna do a lot I have so many highlights and so many underlines. You say, marketing is the act of making change Making is insufficient. You haven't made an impact until you've changed Right. A lot of people don't like marketers, more make a lot of sense because accountants have What do marketers do? Here's what we don't do. We don't spam people, interrupt people, trick want to do. That's a different task that calls itself That's not what we do. Marketers make change happen. If you can make someone better, if you can a light, that's the act of marketing. Because what you've done is brought an idea it, and offered them help. A lifeguard knows how to swim. Until you get the drowning person to hold That's marketing. Persuasion. What I wanted to do once and for all is say, other thing that some people call marketing, all that nonsense, no. That's not what I'm talking about. This is for us. Work that matters for people who care. You also write, "The answer to just about You also have "Instead we begin with a group and the change they seek to make." Talk to us about starting with the human, Not necessarily what we want to make or our I'm gonna come in sideways a little bit because need the smallest viable audience, not the A lot of people have trouble with that. They say, why should I do all this work if If you want to reach everyone, that means humanity. Because you're saying you are the masses, If you can pick someone, if you can be specific, I live or die with you. You are who I'm here to serve. If I can't please you, I didn't do a good That's different. That puts you on the hook to see other people If that's not where you want to go, well then If no one wants to go where you want to go, to achieve. To be honest here, what we have to begin by Who will say to me thank you for bringing Some skeptical people say, that's impossible. No one wants life insurance. My answer is, so then don't make life insurance. Let someone else do that. You get to pick what you do. Do something worthwhile because it's gonna next level. If you're not who it's for, and what it's do marketing to people. We do it with them because they have a choice They didn't used to have a choice. With so many things a click away, they have If they're not gonna pick you, then you're I love your simple three sentence marketing I feel like for our audience and for most with marketing or they're still trying to about this a lot in B-School as well. Part of my job with my B-Schoolers is to help associations that they have with what marketing Giving people a simple template I think can Oh, this is how it is. Do you want me to read it or do you want to I change it every time so you go first. Okay. "My product is for people who believe blank. I will focus on people who want blank. I promise that engaging with what I make will It's so simple. But if people started there, it switches the There's all this empathy involved, which empathy Empathy can simply be a willingness to let that they be who you want them to be. The template begins with "if you are the the kind of person who believes in authority who is an optimist not a pessimist. All these different things, different people I might not believe what you believe, but You want a certain kind of change. Then this thing I'm bringing you, I promise Let's think about Harley Davidson. I don't have a Harley. Do you have a Harley? I do not. It's not for me. That's because I don't believe blank, where motorcycle will make me feel more complete I don't want that. If they go to people who do want that, then they don't make a competitor to the Vespa Because they could and it would work, but and hopes and fears of the people they seek They don't make scooters. They make big motorcycles. Big motorcycles. When I think about the extraordinary success you don't spend any time at all worrying about in. It's not for her. You're right. Right? It's not for her. That's okay because there's so many people. You and I have big followings, which is such 98% of the people in the United States have 98%, fine. Nobody knows who the hell we are. It's perfect. Yes, totally. Absolutely. I want to talk about positioning as a service. This was one of my favorite examples. I actually shared when I was reading the book Two of my friends I shared your example of so genius. I know that folks watching the show and I I was speaking at an event in San Francisco about it. She's like, but there's so much noise out How am I going to stand apart? I thought when I read your ingenious idea teacher. Can you share that? Because I think people will see themselves Traditional marketers if you went to business They talk about how do I cut through the clutter That's selfish. That says I've worked hard. How do I get people to me? Let's throw that out and say that person you Their problem is just too much noise. Their problem is they don't know what to pick. The problem is they've got a kid they want Can I offer them a service to help them see Now it's generous. In the case of the piano teacher, what I know go to a piano lesson. Let's call it five miles. That's the circle of people who can send someone Then I can create axes and I can have as many my brain. I get to pick what the edges are. Some of the edges could be cheap and expensive. Some of the edges could be kind or eastern Some of them could be focusing on jazz, some You can look at an axis this way and an axis If you draw oh this one, this one, this one, here, there's someone who's always over here, On your behalf, I will live in this corner. If that's what you're looking for, great. If I talk to you and I realize it's not what to that other teacher because I am here to you that you are wrong. Yes. That shift is so important because it gives that I have to clear everything off the table It's there's enough as long as I stand for I can ignore the critics because the critics Thanks for letting me know. There's someone over there who's for you. This is for someone else. Yes. I loved it. I was sharing with my friend too with the If someone gets excited and passionate about If you want your child to have the best chance practice to be like this. It's about discipline. It's about showing up. It's about winning, whatever that means. I'm the teacher for you. On the other end of the spectrum, let's say is about the holisticness of the experience is gonna love playing. They're gonna tap into their ability to express Then you go to that teacher. I felt like that example was so wonderful only what are the problems that the market those promises and exceed them? Exactly. Which leads to this crazy thing of authenticity. Because I don't believe in authenticity. I think authenticity is a trap. Here's how I know it. If you need knee surgery and you go to the fight with my family and I don't really feel You're like no. Keep your promise. Be consistent. Do this for me. The drama in your head, not my problem. I want you to be a professional. If you show up in a marketplace where every and wants to win prizes and you want to make a service is you don't get to be the authentic You have to be the consistent one who makes kids. So what I do is blues and joy and fun and That's what I offer. In your spare time if you want to go be the it. If you're a professional, make a promise and Love it. A counterintuitive--actually we talked hit it. I want to read this because again I feel like We're gonna re-underscore the importance of You said the challenge for most people who the mass market. It's the micro-market. They bend themselves into a pretzel trying have 50 or a hundred people who would miss The line of if you can't succeed in the small, you'll succeed in the large? I don't think we can say this enough quite in B-School about ideal customer avatar and just a single person. People freak out. They're like, it's so much resistance. But, but, but, but, but. I want to serve everyone, serve everyone. I feel like this is a slightly different angle. It's like, look. Forget about tens of thousands or millions. What about the first ten? Exactly. Yes. Exactly. One of my... I don't remember many of my blog posts because Daily. There's one I wrote called First Ten. What I say to people who say how am I gonna I say do you know ten people? Are there ten people who trust you? Are there ten people who will try? Everyone says yes. I said, when you bring your work to them, Or do they insist on telling other people? Because if they insist on telling other people, If they don't, then you need to make better Those are the only options. I love it. You can't buy your way to the masses anymore. You used to be able to. It's gone. On that tip, I want to turn a little bit to critics are wrong. This is so vital. Again, I hear this almost weekly any time It's like, I'm so scared of having that Instagram or that video of someone just trashing my You said the critic who doesn't like your The critic who says no one else will like It's either good or it's not. That is not true. Right. Anyone who has an opinion, it's true. That's their opinion. They're not trying to win a logic prize. It's just I don't like that photo, I don't Right? Fine. Thanks for letting me know. That might not be my problem. It might be my problem. We'll see in a second. The critic who says I've seen this movie, will like this movie. That critic is wrong because that critic can't All they know is what they like. When someone shows up and says I hate this, Thank you for caring enough to try it. Thank you for caring enough to let me know Thank you for giving me a chance to point can earn some trust and repay your trust of Thank you. When someone says no one should go here, we wrong. I feel like people forget that the most beloved You use the example of Harry Potter and the of them are one star. One star. The worst book I ever read. Worst book I ever read. Said to the author who made more money as is the worst book I ever read." Really. We need to all remember that. Do you still, and I don't know because I don't Do you still not read reviews on Amazon? Zero. Zero. I haven't done it in five years. People need to hear it. I stopped five years ago for a couple reasons. One: I realized I had never met an author now I'm a better writer. Right? It never happens. First of all, you're never gonna write this The feedback on this book doesn't really help The book is already done. Secondly, all it does is seize you up and It's like, well you have the right to say I don't have the obligation to read it. Thank you for taking the time, but no, I don't Let's talk about the distinction between feedback and vital. Right. If you say to someone, do you have any advice You will learn also it's a wonderful thing. If you say to someone, do you have feedback It feels corporate, it feels like they're kind of thing. That is, if I were you, here's my criticism You're not me. Thank you for the feedback. Really what I was hoping for was the advice The advice might be you are in my target market. You're not me the creator. As someone who's going to consume this, here. Here's some tips. That's really helpful. The other thing that goes on in marketing We assert and for people who believe this We can't do that in the rearview mirror. We can't focus group our way to this assertion. At some point, we say to people here I made If you're not comfortable saying "here, else. "Here, I made this" is the joy of what It doesn't have to be "I sat by myself in It could be "My team of 40 people just opened I was part of the team, I'd love for you to We made this. That's all the same thing. What we didn't do is ask ten thousand people here it is. Because then that's average, which is another Absolutely. Boring. Forgettable. Vanilla, and not the good way. I love vanilla. You talk about a difficult yet valuable exercise muscles. I thought this was genius. For the people that don't choose you, why Why are the people who don't choose you correct Inside The Marketing Seminar, this is the What they want to say is you're right because Or you're right because you have bad taste. You have no taste. You don't even know what's good. Here's the deal, empathy means I don't know I don't need what you need, and that's okay. The person who doesn't like what you sell know, they don't want what you want, they Et cetera, et cetera. The question as a marketer is to say if I change their mind? For a lot of people the answer is still no. Fine. Shun the non-believers. It's not for you. I get that. That's what makes culture work. If you're gonna spend all your time hoping one spot of red wine on it, you're gonna be Because there are no pure white table cloths You state price is a story and that cheap A low price is the last refuge for a marketer That gets an amen from me. If you are hoping to win on sort by price, by price and someone's always gonna be cheaper It's a race to the bottom. Even if you do win for a little while, you're get even cheaper than you. Low price is the refuge for the marketer who If that's all you have to say, then you better For all the rest of us, we have to say this If you're not comfortable with that, then That's the challenge is to figure out how the fact is, no one drives a Yugo, no one Because the fact is, those were cheaper but Yeah. Because paying more told ourselves a story Paying more gives us a sense of reassurance, we get to dictate quality going forward. The gutsy thing to do is to be able to say worth even more than that.&quot; Yes. That's where we have to head. That has always made me excited, like in my listen to me, but I'm like, &quot;Look, I'm expensive I will do my best to put out the best free and we work our tails off for that consistently program with me, it's going to be an investment, what you've invested.&quot; Right. It feels really good as a business owner. You know, it's been like 18 years now and wrote about this in the book, you can pay Right. A fair wage, you have margins so that you with those resources to help shift the culture, For anyone listening right now, and I know feel this way, they may be getting started want to serve a particular market that perhaps What do you say to them? Well, I got to do a couple little bits back. Yeah, of course. First of all, entrepreneurs and freelancers Freelancers get paid when we work, you're We didn't send somebody else to the room. Entrepreneurs build something bigger than they sleep, entrepreneurs build a business Most people who are starting out as entrepreneurs If you want to make it as a freelancer, the that hits a limit really fast, it's get better more, pay you more, talk about your work more, get better clients still. The only difference between a great freelancer clients. We need to spend our time doing that. But if you're an entrepreneur and you say, deep pockets,&quot; you just picked your smallest Don't whine about the fact that they don't If that's their nature, then you're going you deliver. Walmart said, &quot;Look, there are people in Arkansas We're going to serve them, but in order for lawnmowers we're going to sell.&quot; That's got to be built into the business. You can't say, &quot;I want to build a bespoke nature, and I'm going to spend all this money $1.&quot; 'Cause you can't have both, unless you figure Yeah. My advice for most people who are starting a well-off audience and a not well-off audience, Pick one... It's not how much they have in their bank, solve this problem because people without a particular problem if you're worth it, right? And if it's important to them. And it also too, I think, it's worth noting, think about how free ideas spread. If you have a particular idea that you want these free tools, exactly what we're doing Right. And it's been the model for me frankly, I I love having genius people on the show that This could help you really make a change in there's tens of thousands, millions of people never buy anything from me. That makes me happy. Yep. Because if I can make the impact out there an event or sign up for a training program, it's like we're living in this miraculous Oh, yeah. There's two ends to this curve. There's relatively expensive and there's free, free. Yeah. Free is this magical thing that the internet is trust and attention. Trust and attention are the two building blocks no one owns a factory anymore. You can outsource the factory part, but you have attention, 'cause no one knows you're the benefit of the doubt. Where do trust and attention come from? They come from experience. Where does the experience come from? Free samples. The idea that we can put effort into a concept, it reach lots of people, even if all we want path. But the other part that's super cool is let's do is make things better, that's another unbelievable the world that makes things better and it someone better. If you own a factory and everyone comes for But if you make ideas and everyone comes for It's very true. So, I want to have you, if it's okay, read noted because I feel like it's the perfect Like I said, guys, I cannot recommend this Y'all, if you know me any amount of time you is filled with marketing timeless genius. You are so kind. It's right there. It's the truth. I don't blow smoke. You know me. "There's a difference between being good and being good at marketing. We need your craft, without a doubt, but we It's a leap to choose to make change. It feels risky, fraught with responsibility, "If you bring your best self to the world, it, it's entirely possible that your marketing It's entirely possible that you have empathy It's entirely possible that you chose the edges. It's entirely possible you were telling the way on the right day, or even on the wrong Fine. But that's not about you. That's about your work as a marketer, and Brilliant. Thanks. Brilliant. Anything else you'd like to leave us with? Oh, could we talk for two more hours? Yeah, of course we can. I learn so much when I'm with you. The passion and connectedness that you bring you are in the forefront of making these changes Then, I'm proud to be a marketer, you're proud for lots of people. So, thank you. Thank you. Now, Seth and I would love to hear from you. We talked about so many good things, but I'm taking away, and, most important, how can right now? As always, the best conversations happen over head on over there and leave a comment now. While you're there, be sure to subscribe to You'll get instant access to an audio I created some exclusive content and special giveaways share anywhere else. Stay on your game and keep going for your that special gift that only you have. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll catch B-School is coming up, want in? For more info and free training, go to joinbschool.com. Something fascinating always happens when