How much do you know about lines? A line, or a queue, is an organized group turn for some... thing. The amount of time it takes to get from the is the wait time. In its simplest form, the wait time is affected arrival rate. The service rate is the rate at which people The arrival rate is the rate at which people Speed up the service, and the wait time decreases. Increase the arrival rate, and the wait time At its core, this is all a line is. How fast do people get in line, and how fast queues become anything but simple. And there's no better showcase of this complexity Disney is world-famous not only for their they have implemented to cut them down. To truly understand this topic, it is not We must deep dive into the technicalities the many ways that Disney has tried to tackle is no FastPass for this explanation. So without further wait, let's take an excruciatingly aspect of theme parks. On October 1, 1971, Walt Disney World opened one theme park, the Magic Kingdom. Within the first year of opening, Walt Disney had long plagued Disneyland Park in Anaheim. Long waits for attractions. Two of the most dreaded waits were for the Country Bear Jamboree show. The wait for 20,000 Leagues consistently sat Bear Jamboree could go over an hour on busier This might be surprising to you if you've Today, the Country Bear Jamboree almost never exists. However, when Magic Kingdom opened, these in the park. This can be explained by looking at the arrival The service rate for theme park attractions or how many guests can board an attraction 20,000 Leagues was a low-capacity attraction, per hour. Compare this to the Haunted Mansion, which This difference was due to their ride systems. The Haunted Mansion is a continuously operating only seat 40 guests in each submarine, and time. So in a 12 hour day at the park, over 33,000 only around 14,000 guests could ride 20,000 Looking at this difference another way, if the wait time for the Haunted Mansion would Leagues would be 1 hr and 20 minutes. The Country Bear Jamboree had an even lower less in its service rate, but more its arrival While the capacity of a ride is determined is mainly determined by guest demand. This demand can be influenced by such factors done for the attraction. The demand and capacity relationship is somewhat and demand of a product, except rather than capacity determine the wait times and number Today, once a guest has entered a Disney theme they choose, but there are only so many operating that they must spend. For instance, a guest might want to ride the but that same guest might not want to ride In queuing, this is called balking, when someone length. This can reduce wait times by turning people the attraction. The situation becomes even more complicated money to ride rides. When it opened, Walt Disney World utilized to purchase tickets both to enter the park with each attraction distinguished with a thrilling and popular attractions. This was the same system used at Disneyland, E-ticket became a common phrase to refer to By charging guests more to ride the popular for these rides. However, at Walt Disney World, this system When the resort opened, guests knew little they already understood the A through E ticket So when visitors made their decisions, they their own attractions. The Country Bear Jamboree, a musical show was listed as an E-ticket, while the Mickey characters well known to guests, was listed This led many guests to assume that The Country in a false demand, leading to longer lines. This false demand was recognized by a Disney Laval graduated from the University of Florida and he joined Walt Disney World right as the Industrial engineers are specialized in studying finding ways to make systems more efficient, on as their theme parks became more complex Laval was among the first industrial engineers systems, impressive considering at the time Within the first few years he worked for the created by the A through E ticket system and The idea made it almost to the testing phase resistant to change, learned of the plan and However, it was soon decided that Disney's use the A through E ticket system, so the at both Disneyland and Walt Disney World as After the switch, Laval's theory was proven. Wait times at E-tickets went down, and more Long lines were by no means eliminated from ticket system was discontinued. In fact, lines were the number one guest complaint This is why when Disney opened its first international the company were surprised at the patience long lines, especially when compared to Americans. This is because different cultures have different to be some of the most impatient, right up learn soon enough. Also, people's reactions to queues change have played a major role in this evolution. The most common type of queue at Disney is snake back and forth in a zigzag motion. This was pioneered by Disney's Imagineers The lines for Disney's attractions at the developed the switchback concept which organized Reportedly, Walt Disney himself also felt Because guests were moving back and forth, allowing them to interact with strangers back Switchback queues were soon implemented throughout Center, and eventually everywhere, but since distaste for the switchback queue had grown. People were no longer tricked by its condensed grating. To combat this, Disney went back to the drawing strategy to improve guests' time in line. Number 1: Keep waits to a maximum of 15 minutes. Number 2: If a guest must wait more than 15 immersive queues and pre-show videos. Number 3: Hide the queue from view, sectioning can't see how long the line really is until This strategy really came down to one basic If you remove the guests' ability to visualize In 1987, Bruce Laval was named director of MGM-Studios. The new theme park was designed to focus primarily production facilities being constructed alongside it had few attractions, and worse, few productions. What it did have was an excess of people. Crowds flocked to Disney-MGM to find long The issue was widely reported on, and when could have the greatest show in the world, people are going to leave the park dissatisfied." Immediately after this article was published, a man, named Michael Eisner, who was the CEO Eisner assured the public, as well as the that the park would be expanded with more lines to be that long. We are trying to rectify that as soon as we In 1995, Laval was promoted to Executive Vice for all park and resort operations at the Laval had held many different positions at background had stayed with him, and the mounting to develop something big. In the mid 1990s, Laval and his team began certain attractions at the Disney Parks to The idea was to give guests a reservation not have to wait in line. Similar to a restaurant, guests would simply and would be seated immediately. While the idea would eliminate waits for guests were obvious issues with the concept. First, it was nearly impossible to ensure on time. Often they would be doing something else around When a guest would miss their reservation ride, therefore reducing the total capacity Second, if the attraction experienced downtime during this downtime would no longer be able day would already be filled, or if they were of people for the rest of the day, defeating The idea was abandoned for these reasons, was a dead concept. This was until Laval had an epiphany, not In 1997, Laval went on a skiing vacation in While on the slopes, he observed the queue Each lift chair held four people, and the line and a single rider line. Laval viewed how the single riders were squeezed party did not fill an entire chair. He realized that this was the compromise to Rather than a regular line and a single rider system and a standby line. Whenever a guest would be late for their reservation, line so that the attraction would never lose guest behavior. Plus, if the attraction did experience downtime, to standby riders could simply be adjusted the downtime. Despite the idea coming from the initial reservation-based to a virtual queue. A virtual queue functions similarly to a normal A common example of a virtual queue can be which guests take a number and wait for their Unlike reservations, this still retains the line but it removes the ability to visualize of it. After returning from vacation, Laval pitched met with skepticism. Believing in the idea, Laval proposed that Using the newly opened Animal Kingdom due began with a select group of guests who were day, including how long they waited in line. The test subjects were split into two groups, the virtual queue system. The control group simply logged their day to approach cast members at attractions entrances, time on it. This return time was equal to the time that line for the ride. The test subjects were then encouraged to on the ticket, where they would then be allowed The test was a huge success. The virtual queue subjects were able to experience their wait times were reduced by 50%. The virtual queue subjects left the park much than the control group. If this was not convincing enough for executives, virtual queue system spent more of their time in more spending when compared to the control Executives approved the concept for further 1999, both at Disneyland and Walt Disney World. That summer, testing focused on Space Mountain park's longest wait. In these early tests, Cast Members were physically to guests, while using handheld clicker counters and how many guests returned. The tests were often haphazard and chaotic, not only the system could work, but it would money. Many within the company, including Laval, to all visitors so as not to create different himself, who was known to wait in the park's With the tests labeled a success, executives new virtual queue system, officially titled... "Hey, did you know that you don't have attractions? Just look for the signs at selected attractions You'll get a complimentary Fastpass with Guests who entered a Walt Disney World park FastPass. On the surface, the system was simple. Guests would approach an attraction where wait time. If this was manageable, they could join the However, if the wait was long, they could kiosks placed outside of the attractions. Guests inserted their park admission ticket a one-hour return window listed on it. They could then enjoy the rest of the park, would hand their ticket to an attendant and with a minimal wait. Each guest could only hold one FastPass at until their return window arrived. Behind the scenes, the system was far more Each attraction's FastPass data would be attraction, controlling the standby wait time have been handed out, and determining the The computer was connected to a server so the park, and so that the system would know to prevent them from obtaining another. The system also allowed ride operators to downtime, and in response, the kiosks would the attraction was operating again. Some Cast Members reported this feature not rides, resulting in ride operators having a stack of paper Fastpasses so that return throwing those FastPasses in the trash. When news broke on FastPass in the summer to use it on the three, four or five attractions each park." By the end of the year, thirteen attractions Five at Magic Kingdom, two at Epcot, five In early 2000, FastPass was implemented in Splash Mountain and Roger Rabbit's Car Toon "One way to keep it moving is called Disney's Mi un favorito. Check this out. We roll up to the FastPass kiosk. Boom. Boom! Kicks back a ride time. Then you just come back to the ride at that Pretty sweet little invention. Let's hit it." FastPass was a huge learning curve for guests. Despite heavy marketing, many guests did not it. In the early days, it was referred to as Disney's in standby lines were visibly and vocally those that had FastPasses. Believing that they were being skipped or Some people believed that FastPass was simply which is not the case. The FastPass kiosk and ticket system was a serve system built into the program, but that Once guests redeemed their pass, that queue preferred queue that shared the service rate The arrival of FastPass guests did affect standby queue. There were a few exceptions to this, such which has two separate tracks. So if operated as such, one track could be only. If this is the case, then FastPass guests they essentially just have their own attraction, the arrival of FastPass guests have no impact The main issues with implementing FastPass the technology for the kiosks and finding Luckily, many attractions already had two either the left line or the right line when A common advice from vacation planners was people are right handed and thus tended to parks and studied by queuing experts for some Some attractions already had a split point, For instance, Space Mountain at Walt Disney the ramp leading to the main show building. Here, a railing was added and all guests had could walk on the left. This made installing FastPass fairly simple to the beginning of the queue and build a and the right side remained split the entire Reviews from those guests that used FastPass On average, guests that utilized the system A few skeptics believed that the system would the park. Laval responded to this concern saying quote, The only challenge has been getting people He added that quote, "People go on to what in that area of the ride they have the Fastpass We found that these were typically attractions were spending too much time in line. This does increase rides per capita by backfilling FastPass also had the potential in certain it altered the arrival rate of popular attractions. By giving guests return windows, it spread flattening the mid-day rush and reducing standby Those that loved FastPass argued that the in the park. Dale Stafford, VP of Operations Planning and that this was not practical, saying quote, have enough space in the park. Where would everyone go?" One year after FastPass was introduced, both in labeling the program a massive success. Eisner said quote, "They now have more time They're also a lot happier not having to In August of 2000, FastPass was recognized awarded a 2000 Governor's New Product Award. Laval said quote, "FastPass continues to It's a free service and it's making their Laval retired in 2000 after 30 years with major project. Perhaps the greatest success of FastPass was It was catchy and concise, so much so that a colloquialism for any sort of expedited It also pushed other parks to develop their a hit song. "'cause if you like it then you shoulda If you like it then you shoulda gotta Fastpass. Don't you hate on me because you came in If you like it then you shoulda gotta Fastpass. Oh oh oh. Oh oh oh oh oh. Oh oh oh oh." It was not long until touring experts started For instance, guests still needed to arrive optimal return times. If a guest arrived at the park's opening window only an hour away. However, by mid-day, many FastPasses return and on busier days, FastPasses for popular in the afternoon. While the system itself worked well, there One was the decision to not allow guests to window arrived. This left many guests upset when they went realize that the return window was hours away then. The solution to this was allowing guests to receiving their initial one. Some less than honest guests found that they days or trips and reuse them over and over To combat this, Disney changed the design date, although this did not entirely curb Others found ways to best the system to get Guests found that some attractions did not computers, so if they were to get a FastPass would not communicate that the guest already another. FastPass kiosks were also used in creative For instance, guests obtaining a FastPass might have received a special ticket inviting seats at the attraction. Sometimes the kiosks were used to direct people FastPass, such as The Many Adventures of Winnie for Mickey's Philharmagic. On February 17th, 2003, the 100th Million of Atlanta, who were given a special Golden to all attractions at the resort. Mike Dillon said quote, "Things like this On a particularly stormy night in the year ship named the Queen Marge, which would soon Ocean, bound for the... whoa, think I lost Sorry about that. Where was I? By 2003, FastPass had grown significantly Five at Animal Kingdom, Six at Disney-MGM, Disneyland Resort now had a total of 16 FastPass Adventure. The significant increase in FastPass attractions monetary benefits of the system. During the late 90s and early 2000s, Paul and Resorts, had instituted drastic cost cutting to increase profits. At the same time, Pressler, whose background amount of shopping and merchandise carts throughout FastPass was a quick fix in many ways. Not only did the system promise to get guests itself could be marketed far and wide as if Disney didn't have anything else to promote. For a period of time in the mid-2000s, FastPass namely once booked through Triple A, which to as Enhanced FastPass, which removed the to obtain as many FastPasses as available, could not receive multiple passes for the attraction had expired. With this, guests could enter Disneyland Park FastPass attraction in the park, exit Disneyland a FastPass for every FastPast attraction at have the best day ever, with the only downside attractions at a mid-2000s California Adventure. The over-implementation of FastPass did exactly at the park were more congested than ever. This was especially noticeable at Disneyland to the Magic Kingdom. The park was designed to have people waiting FastPass, guests found themselves wading through time to arrive. Also, standby waits for high-capacity attractions, Mansion, were noticeably increased with FastPass, In 2002, Paul Pressler resigned to model for He was replaced by the Chairman of Disneyland When Rasulo and other management took over, determining that the best solution was to At Disneyland, Pirates of the Caribbean, Winnie kiosks removed, and Haunted Mansion's FastPass Holiday. In California Adventure, It's Tough to be removed as well. Eventually, the Haunted Mansion at the Magic well. While FastPass worked well on some rides and the over implementation within the first few that it was a bad idea to put FastPass everywhere. It is now September of 2007. It has been two years since Bob Iger became Eisner resigned, FastPass has just turned the parks division. It has also been recently announced that Disney a centralized computer system to manage FastPass allowing guests to obtain FastPasses from like this, so most of the plans relied on The patent application also stated that the guest at hotels" to determine hierarchies Disney stated publicly they had no plans to they were monitoring how to take advantage However, within the company, executives were complete secrecy. In 2007, Jay Rasulo and four other senior committee to determine how the ongoing technological Like Walt Disney and Imagineers in the 1960s once again centered on how to improve crowd The group was exploring multiple concepts While on a flight, VP of Business Development magazine, SkyMall, when he came across a magnetic and reduce joint pain. This was of course a scam, but it gave Padgett What if Disney Parks guests had their own could use around the park. It would be like a magic wristband, so naturally, for short. The team opened a testing space for the xBand Wonders of Life Pavilion at Epcot. After an ideation phase, Disney CEO Bob Iger their idea for the xBand. The proposal was to house an RFID tag inside with touch points throughout the park. The xBand could act as guest's park tickets They could even use it as a credit card. When Iger was shown the technology, he was budget. In 2008, development officially began on Disney to bring the guest experience into the modern This encompassed multiple strategies, ranging at the parks to experimenting with different in line. Perhaps the most ambitious part of NextGen Disney World's technological infrastructure mobile application. "Ever wish you could have the magic of the Wait, what is this? "Thanks to Disney Parks... This is not MyMagic Plus I don't know what "Introducing Mobile Magic. A magical app that will turn your Verizon Ugh. Exclusive to Verizon? "...super easy to use. Just touch characters. Look, Mickey... Ahh. Oh gosh, I forgot about this. Ok, so real quick, in 2009, Disney and Verizon Magic, that allowed guests to see a map of for $9.99 every 180 days, geez. And you had to send a text message to download Ugh. Most impressive, the app allowed users to from their phone, with real time information They could not book or view their FastPasses tool for the time, and it had a valuable feature. Guests could now balk at an attraction's Understanding the power the app had over guest wait times to point guests in certain directions. For instance, if there were too many people wait time might be adjusted to 90 minutes order to dissuade guests from visiting the This also served the additional function of were almost always shorter than posted waits, event of delays or downtime. It is unclear when this strategy began, but crowd control features when the new app launched. In November of 2009, two years into the development Jay Rasulo would become the CFO of the Walt CFO Tom Staggs, who would be taking Rasulo's The switch was Iger's decision, and it was to their new role. This was a way to help Iger determine his company in 2015. Staggs was inheriting the NextGen program on for him to deliver on the team's plans, Not only did the NextGen team want to reinvent completely overhaul FastPass as well. The new system would be titled XPass, and Experience initiative. The philosophy behind Guaranteed Experiences guest retention at the resort by removing The program sought to ensure that guests would and ride their favorite rides during their This is where XPass came in. Guests would now be able to book multiple and rather than using paper tickets, they queue. In late 2011, news broke on XPass, mainly money. People took that great, but despite the uproar, not entirely. FastPass would still be available to everyone, staying at a Walt Disney World resort hotel. The plan was for guests to be able to book The specific number would be different for On the busiest days at Magic Kingdom, guests but on most days, they would be able to book However, at Epcot, which had significantly book 2 FastPasses on busy days, while most The times for the reservations would be determined Guests would input which attractions they created with FastPasses to optimize guest When paired with the rest of the NextGen technology, crowd control. There was just one problem. Actually there were a thousand problems, but XPass sought to offer multiple FastPasses The problem was there were not enough FastPasses to do this. In the original FastPass system, popular attractions noon or even before, and that was when people Since FastPass already took up the majority Walt Disney World were already operating at give out more FastPasses for these rides. When the industrial engineers ran models for enough FastPass availability at the parks The engineers quickly realized that in order they arrived, they would need to add FastPass The total number of FastPass attractions at 50. When the industrial engineers put the increased didn't work. Even with an additional 22 attractions, there where FastPass availability would be gone book all of their passes. To solve this, it was suggested that FastPass also to things that were not typically considered characters. Apparently, this still wasn't enough, so FastPasses to things that don't even have Rather than skipping the line, special viewing and guests could book a FastPass to gain access Finally, this increased, or more accurately be offered, which helped support the idea they arrived. With the basic framework figured out, plans continued to develop. In February of 2011, the Walt Disney Company's a budget of around $1 billion. Iger reportedly sternly told Staggs, "This Which became a mantra for the entire team. Staggs was under enormous pressure to deliver parks or Disney money. "Now when I put this in, does money immediately "If it's working correctly, yes. Yes." "Yeah." In a shocking twist, most of the rhetoric was not about the potential profit from the Those developing the new technology and even more altruistic benefits of the program. The ability to guarantee experiences for vacationers, resort, to improve traffic flow and crowd that could be built on over the coming decades, could focus more on providing great interactions These were the key components of the pitch. This is not to say that there were not some Disney definitely wanted to impress with the player in the tech space, but this did not Apart from the new digital PhotoPass system, that the billion dollar MyMagic+ overhaul Maybe guests would think less about their then lead to more spending. Maybe the novelty of the xBand would encourage which would increase revenue. Maybe the data collected from everyone's in ways to increase spending. Maybe a few Cast Member positions could be money. Maybe the traffic flow improvements would the park? And the biggest maybe that the entire project such a wonderful experience for our guests more likely to recommend that others visit. Sure, the end goal was to increase revenue, guest experience, and hoping that the money This optimistic and almost quaint approach price tag, but Iger, Staggs, Rasulo and other to keep it going. Others throughout Disney had a much different Disney hired multiple tech contractors to technology, and it was an open secret in the that saw the project as a cash cow, over charging These firms also did not get along with the were found with implementation. Walt Disney Imagineering was not all in on The parks hoped that the Imagineers would to deliver unique experiences in attractions, gimmick, and a risky one at that. Plus, placing xBand readers throughout the FastPasses clashed with the theming. Imagineer Joe Rohde said, "If I'm supposed have iPhones or MagicBands." The Imagineers ended up barely integrating Test Track being one of the only real benefactors. "What's FastPass+ you ask? Come on, I'll Show you. It makes your stay a treat. Reserve that meet and greet. Come on, get it now. Make your trip go wow. It's sweet." That is technically my second favorite FastPass competition. In January of 2013, Disney officially announced of new high tech wristbands, now renamed to XPass was also announced, renamed to FastPass The system had been altered slightly, and in advance. This static number applied to all four parks As rumored, guests staying at Walt Disney to FastPasses. Hotel guests would be able to book their Fastpasses book 30 days in advance. When guests went to book their FastPasses, had FastPass available. They then selected three of them, no more, If the guests didn't select three, the system After the selections were made, the computer that guests could choose from. After this, guests could still edit the selections, reservation or by selecting another attraction FastPasses were now redeemed with MagicBands rollout, paper FastPass kiosks would still MyMagic+ was introduced in phases throughout were immediate, apparent, and overwhelming. Reportedly, those on the rollout team and as the tech was making operations much worse, "We know, but we're in too deep." Spotty Wifi, malfunctioning MagicBand readers, app, and many more issues plagued the system There are too many issues with MyMagic+ to a few. The biggest disappointment with the system never able to take the guest experience to At best, it worked, but it never impressed of the more ambitious plans for the technology, or even being able to communicate to Cast birthday, could never be implemented, because afloat to ever have time to take it to the Most damning, by and large, Cast Members hated to work at. It automated few if any jobs, and because of its customer support department. Despite all of the issues, Disney publicly said that thanks to the system's ability the parks, Magic Kingdom's maximum capacity is unclear whether this has anything to do debuted around this time. Staggs was determined to be the winner of from CFO in 2015 while Staggs was promoted the president of Disney's consumer products Stags would leave the company the following Overall, My Magic+ and MagicBands streamlined it. Some guests loved it, some guests hated it, In many ways, the introduction of the technology A $1 billion wash. But what about the new program's headlining By the end of its life in 2014, the original off of a Windows software from the late 90s, could be, was definitely a welcome one, but points. It was an entirely new system, and like the curve for guests. The new system could only be accessed on the or with a Cast Member at one of the FastPass During the initial roll out, this led to huge it another way, there was a line to get the While guests adjusted to the new system, the In November of 2013, Epcot and Hollywood Studios in which the park's most popular attractions popular attraction could be held at a time. In February of 2014, the transition to FastPass+ were removed from the park. Rumoredly, the speed of the transition was of the new technology to prove its efficacy. Two months later, the system was altered once FastPasses after they redeemed their first Once guests redeemed their third FastPass kiosk and choose one additional pass. After they redeemed this additional one, they until the end of the day. The next major change would not come until and now guests had to choose each of their This also removed the three initial FastPass two FastPasses without forcing them to start Finally, guests could now choose their additional rather than only at the kiosks. It would not be until 2017 that Disneyland Rumordely, Disneyland was set to receive MyMagic+, major issues with the system resulted in the Instead, Disneyland would receive an entirely For $10 a day, visitors could book FastPasses so when inside the park. Like paper FastPass, users could only receive additional passes until the first return window pass was booked. The system received mixed reviews upon announcement, it, believing that MaxPass was superior to subject of a heated debate. FastPass Plus was a divisive program, and There are pros and cons to the system, so the biggest ones. Before we get into this, I want to mention in other ways guests are able to cut the line, Program. These systems have their own complex histories and important, are not factored into this That said, here are some of the pros and cons Pro #1 Obviously. Pro #2 One of the biggest downsides to the original an attraction's entrance to obtain a paper when it was time to ride. This backtracking was causing major traffic from their phone eliminated this unnecessary Plus, it was more convenient for guests. Pro #3 As park attendance climbed through the early out earlier in the day, so in turn, guests people arriving in the morning and staying people in each park. With FastPass Plus, guests would know three which would encourage guests that had FastPasses later, thus relieving morning and mid-day Plus, guests no longer had to wake up early relaxing vacation. Con #1 Irrelevant FastPasses. In the mad dash to add as many attractions of certain attractions were less thought out For instance, FastPasses for Monsters Inc guests any time, as these attractions were areas before the next showing. Guests who had FastPasses for these types FastPass did was give them a different entrance with other guests. Con #2 Long FastPass Lines. Many using FastPass Plus reported waiting they did with the original FastPass system. The original intention of FastPass was for before boarding, but with FastPass+, guests at certain points. This was in part due to the fact that FastPass would be operating sixty days in advance. As previously explained, paper FastPass had very least a ride operator could throw a bunch some wiggle room. This was much more difficult with FastPass+, already had an entire day's worth of FastPasses If the downtime was significant, anyone with an any-use FastPass with which they could FastPass lines at other attractions throughout If the ride was delayed but did not completely line for that ride. When there was a backup, the FastPass to Standby line under control. This was the same compensation plan as paper disbursing any use FastPasses much more frequently, on these passes. Con #3. The FastPass to Standby Ratio. We have yet to discuss the FastPass to Standby It is no secret that of the two lines, the standby line. In fact, that's the whole point. The question is how much was FastPass favored There is no definitive answer to this, because ultimately up to the Cast Member stationed Bruce Laval recounted that this was the most key position to getting the original FastPass This Cast Member not only had to keep the to manage the expectations and frustrations two very different waits. The FastPass to standby ratio cited on the other words, for every four FastPass guests, This is consistent with Cast Member and guest The 4 to 1 ratio remained standard after the occurring much more frequently, Cast Members to Standby disparity more often. There were three phases Cast Members had to Phase 1 was standard operating procedure with If there was a backup in the FastPass line, a 20:1 ratio, and if the backup was significant was for every 1 standby guest, 100 FastPass Once the FastPass line was under control, the disparity of Phase 2 and 3 was infuriating during these phases would almost completely There was also a psychological gamble to FastPass. Disney was banking on the idea that guests they were cut in line, they would just remember This seemed to pay off, but they were also of queueing. Now that FastPass was slowing down the standby the queue was much slower. In most cases, people prefer to spend 20 minutes 20 minutes standing still, but the latter In the pre-FastPass days, lines often stretched but it is important to remember that back or five times as fast. With FastPass, guests found that the amount less than before, despite the wait being the Con #4 FastPass Availability After guests became accustomed to the FastPass+ figure out the best ways to use it. In turn, FastPass availability was running Practically every day of the year, popular completely before the day of operation. This was the case for 5 attractions at the Studios, 2 at Animal Kingdom, and 4 meet and This meant that nearly 17 experiences were to the park. This prompted Disney to hold back a small they would then drop these held-back passes This also gave them the option to not drop was experiencing downtime. Still, unless a guest got lucky and snagged or after another guest modified or cancelled ride, they had to plan in advance. Which leads me to Pro #4 and Con #5, Planning. Many people love planning their Disney trips, MyMagic Plus and FastPass Plus significantly to have a consistently good experience at FastPass Plus was supposed to give guests but in practice, the system forced guests getting to experience the most popular attractions Hotel guests could book an entire trip's worth date. This allowed some guests to book as many as like Slinky Dog Dash at Hollywood Studios out of FastPasses even before the 60-day mark. Securing these FastPasses practically became to snag those passes. "Alright, so we're going to start with So you get three FastPass+ reservations per "So once you hit the 60 day mark from your go on and book FastPasses for the whole length "Start with the last day of your vacation "So the further out you can make it, the Also, if you take a longer trip, you are more to take a longer trip, there you have it." "So, on my 60 mark day, I log on to My Disney selections at 7am eastern standard time. Or 6am central standard time, which is where "Because you want to make sure that you FastPass window opens." "If at all possible, book them early in for different parks later in the day." "You save that first hour of the day to try to set up your three FastPasses as soon together." "I have filled in a vague idea of what I "I make a FastPass+ list with all of reserve." "All it takes is some luck. That is a huge part of it. Please do not be thinking that this is like "So I guarantee you, by the time your 30 "Flight of Passage..." "Flight of Passage..." "Gone." "Slinky Dog." "Gone." "Seven Dwarfs." "Gone." "Keep checking the app. Seriously, keep refreshing, refreshing, refreshing. Last minute FastPasses pop up all the time." "You'll be able to click hour by hour it will reload and reload and reload and reload. That's called 'pounding the app' by "And there are also tickets that are available What you can do is buy these tickets and essentially, And I would put this under a dummy name and day because you never enter the park with Some savvy guests that knew how to use the planning was a welcome activity, adding even also guaranteeing certain experiences during Others knew how to use the system, but did and longing for the days of flexibility. Many more guests did not know the tips and on the most valuable FastPasses, leaving them these popular rides. Con #6 Standby By far the biggest complaint with FastPass increased wait times throughout the parks. When the system was first introduced, Haunted attractions that did not previously offer wait times. On the other end of the spectrum, Space Mountain decreased slightly. As the system was fully implemented, standby fans have argued back and forth whether or waits, increases or decreases overall waits, a guest can experience in a day. Unfortunately, it is nearly impossible to Statistics like these have not been reported were not consistently recorded, and even if reasons to compare these numbers. Even doing the math ourselves would be almost The equations necessary to determine what to a theme park is much too complicated for In order to answer these questions, we would like one of the one's Bruce Laval created Even then, this is no small task. Someone would need to pay an industrial engineer a theme park populated with agents, all with varying capacities and run times in order of rides ridden, and other factors with and to the bottom of this ridiculously niche curiosity. Hey everybody I made a theme park in the computer. Welcome to Shapeland, where all the guests Here's how it works. I decide how many people are going to visit They then arrive based on an arrival schedule with most of the guests arriving in the first in the last few hours of the day. From there, each guest independently makes To ensure variability, there are seven different Fan, Average Tourist, Activity Fan, Annual Vlogger. Each of these archetypes determines three The first is stay time preference. This dictates how long the guest wants to For instance, the ride enthusiast archetype the average tourist archetype only wants to The second factor is balking point. The ride enthusiast has a balking point of a ride that has over a four hour wait. On the other hand, the average tourist refuses The annual pass holder won't wait more than more than fifteen. The third factor is attraction preference. This determines whether a guest wants to ride at a restaurant or go gift shopping. Obviously, the ride enthusiast much prefers open to doing activities. After a guest enters the park, they will begin based on their own preferences. For instance, this guest's name is Bernadot. Bernadot is the average tourist. They are open to both attractions and activities, ride, and they will stay for seven hours. Once in the park, Bernadot decides whether based on a weighted coin flip. Let's say they choose to do an attraction. They then decide which attraction to do. Bernadot's decision is now based on a weighted Each attraction in the park has a different attraction, the more likely it is that Bernadot Let's say Bernadot decides to ride Shapeland's Since Shapeland is currently operating off first looks at the posted standby wait time. If the wait time is under 30 minutes, they If it is over 30 minutes, Bernadot will check If it doesn't, whether it be because the are no more available for the day, Bernadot is less than their balking point. If it is, they will join the standby line. If it isn't, they will go back to the hub In the case that the attraction does offer will grab one and be assigned a return time. The equation that determines Bernadot's FastPass kiosks. With their spot in the virtual queue secured, their logic over again, deciding whether to which attraction or activity to do, but this have time to make it back for their FastPass. Bernadot's stay time preference is 7 hours, hours, they will choose to leave and their This same logical and preference based progression park over the course of the operating day. At the end of each run, the simulation gives Almost everything in my simulation is dynamic. I can change the number of attractions, attraction each individual attraction has FastPass or I can change the behavior archetypes, the guests are able to utilize the FastPass system. The simulation is by no means perfect and into account, such as these... I ran the simulation three times. One with no FastPass, one with original paper FastPass+ to the best of the simulation's More info on that here. So after obtaining and organizing the results, First, let's discuss what results we will Whenever discussing the pros and cons of Fastpass, Wait Times, Overall Wait Times, and Average Thanks to Shapeland, we finally have answers results when all other factors remain constant. Let's first examine Standby Wait Times. These are the average standby waits for Shapeland's day, when there is no FastPass implemented As you can see, we still get huge waits. The triangle has a wait of over three hours, There are two rides, the square and the circle While the Hexagon and Octagon have no waits Let's see what happens when we add FastPass operate the park with the original paper FastPass Wait times increase for every single attraction. The Triangle's average standby wait increases walk-on, but the Octagon still is. Now let's simulate FastPass+. Again, every wait time increases, except for The standby wait for the most popular ride, the original FastPass system, and 5 minutes The reason for this is clear when you look park. The Octagon, which was a walk-on with both now has a fifteen minute wait. The oval has jumped from a 5 minute wait with Plus. Hexagon, which was a walk-on with no FastPass, This pattern can be seen throughout the park It is safe to say that overall that both FastPass wait times throughout a park. The average standby wait with no FastPass With FastPass+, it is now 67 minutes. If FastPass was completely removed from the almost certainly decrease. But this is not the full story, because many They are skipping them. Let's now examine the average overall wait. This takes into account both the guests waiting 5 and 15 minutes in the FastPass line. For our purposes, we're not considering FastPass and redeeming it as part of their While in the original FastPass system, guests their ability to multitask would throw off being able to wait more hours than there are like it increased waits for everybody, which Also, with FastPass Plus, how would you even Did this guy wait 60 days to ride Seven Dwarfs, off a bit. Anyways, The average posted wait in Shapeland with every attraction in the park in a single day, However, few guests actually do this, and so Shapeland guests actually find themselves With the original paper FastPass, the average but the overall average wait when factoring those skipping the line entirely with FastPass, 18 minutes less than without Fastpass. But how is this possible? As we've discussed, service rate or capacity and it's nearly impossible to increase an been constructed. You can't safely put more ride cars on Space designed for that. So when we add paper FastPass to Shapeland, and the square see little to no increase in serving their maximum number of guests. However, other rides at Shapeland are not The reason for the increase in the average Laval claimed about FastPass backfilling less concept within queuing. We know about how capacity and arrival rate but we have not discussed is the concept of Now a wait time cannot be negative in the For instance, I can't ever give you back What I mean by negative wait time is that it is losing capacity. Look at this way. Let's say a ride has a capacity of 1000 ride it. It could be considered that this attraction that 30 minutes worth of people, in this case the attraction's wait would still be 0 minutes, filling empty seats on the ride. You might recall that this was one of the system pitch in the mid-90s. If a guest missed their reservation, they lost capacity. FastPass not only avoids this problem, but park. Without FastPass, 1900 guests rode the Octagon, Octagon, an increase of over 150%, but the these people are filling empty seats, and This explains why with FastPass, despite most on average waited less, because unlike with to attractions with zero waits, which dropped However, with FastPass Plus, this 0 wait threshold which previously went from a walk-on to an The average standby wait in Shapeland with average wait per attraction was 42 minutes. This is interesting, because while more people the original FastPass, the rise in standby that there is no change to the overall wait. In fact, the average overall wait per attraction FastPass Plus. FastPass does reduce average overall wait attractions, so long as those exist. Finally, let's look at the average number paying attention, you should already know In the park with no FastPass, guests ride looks like this. 22% of guests ride 2 rides, 21% ride 3, 16% You can also see that around 13% of guests These are mostly people that favor activities When the original Fastpass system is added, going from 3.31 to 3.77. With FastPass+, we again see an increase, per day. On average almost every single guest gets This is significant and proves FastPass+ merit not the full story. This is the distribution graph we viewed early This is what it looks like with FastPass+, increases from 3.31 to 4.23, assuming that fair to all guests. However, that is not FastPass+. This is the actual distribution graph for As you can see, more people experience less lot more attractions, while less people are amount of attractions, in this case 3 to 7 With FastPass+, more guests are able to experience do 39 rides in a day. These are people that got FastPasses for long their time riding shorter waits like the Octagon, Meanwhile, the amount of people riding only FastPass and is far more than in the ideal This is because the waits for rides like the if a guest chose to wait in it, they don't Other guests want to ride rides, but they enter during mid-day, they instead choose the waits are so high throughout the park. So yes, FastPass and FastPass+ increases the per day. It's a system that pushes people to go fill distribution tool, FastPass and FastPass+ But in practice, from a guest perspective, and know how to use it well, while those that it well, have it much worse than they did So at this point, your mid to late 2010s trip context. Perhaps you even know where you land on this your opinion on the entire subject based on If you were here, booking 60 days in advance, day, I imagine hat you enjoyed FastPass+. If you were here, not using the systeem, facing experiencing between 0 and 2 attractions per Now these two sides might have some opinions If you didn't use the system to its full standby lines, watching hoards of guests in researched the tips and tricks, and were able Those using FastPass Plus to their advantage not doing their research and using the system system requiring a certain amount of time, and money for on-site hotels. Even if you benefited and loved FastPass, these people, because it worked so poorly would be here in the middle. But since that is not the case, a palpable In queuing theory, this is called... Within the Disney Parks, there has become except for this one is silly, mostly inconsequential, a nightmare you can't wake up from. The class system at the Disney Parks, for After the discontinuing of the A through E as long as they could pay for the price of As we discussed earlier, the in-park currency Those that read the guidebooks, knew the parks, guests, but apart from paying for a tour guests go into the left lane when available, experience parade or fireworks, and so on and so on. In Shapeland, under no FastPass, it takes experience the top six attractions. If people showed up earlier in the day, they the most part, there are no hard lines separating This was introduced with the original paper was free, with knowledge still being the dividing This is how long it takes on average for a but this time with paper FastPass. Here we see the different knowledge classes This is split between those that know the use the system on a basic level, and those Those that knew the system best could do the Those that knew the basics of the system could And those that didn't use the system would the six attractions. Money was reintroduced into the equation with Guests that stayed on-property would get to stay, and if they utilized this perk, they in less than four hours. Those that understood the system but had to to the sixty day window would have to spend And those that did not use FastPass Plus at to do these attractions. And this is not accounting for walking, meals, activity. The disparity between these three systems and it showed just how much FastPass+ favored But you might be thinking, this doesn't Shapeland isn't a real park, these are just But that's not actually true. Because Shapeland is actually Animal Kingdom. The Triangle is Flight of Paasage, the Square River Journey and so on. More than that, the entire simulation is based March 23, 2019, a day with medium high crowds. We adjusted the dynamic factors of the system and then simply turned off FastPass and examined So all of these results, including this graph, six attractions being Flight of Passage, Kiliminjaro Dinosaur, and Kali River Rapids. For good measure, we also simulated Magic while the park's more diverse set of attractions in some areas, all of the basic patterns we So this disparity is real, and it has created guests. While the system does not treat everyone the Disney World's guests are the same. For instance, you have families that save you have regular vacationers that come every that might go multiple times a month. Many argue, with good reason, that a system vacationers is necessary, and a system with solution, while a distribution graph like almost too equally. However, this conclusion ignores many factors and demand. Let's use an analogy. So there is a company that makes shoes, and Customer 1 really wants the shoes. Customer 2 does not feel strongly about the If the shoe company offered the shoes for really want the shoes, and since $30 is a would buy them as well. However, if the shoes cost $100, Customer want the shoes, but since Customer 2 doesn't on the offer. Now let's say the shoe store offered Customer 1 the shoes for $200. Customer 2 would take their offer, despite also take their offer, because they really Rather than using simply supply and demand many companies will find ways to maximize when there is an exess of supply. But as it applies to queuing, we're not to minimize them. While it sounds like a good idea to give preference that visit frequently are favored less, it enforce this. And with the way FastPass+ was set up, it Instead of priority access going to once in going to those making semi-regular trips and making regular visits, the actual categories visitors that understood the system booking passholders without reservations booking within vacationers often finding themselves out of degree from MyMagic+ University with a major So dynamic system, great in theory, not so might not look good at first glance, it often is no system in place separating guests, guests The person that comes once in a lifetime gets six hours while the annual passholder or semi ride the top six rides in a single day because The guest that comes once a month will probably minute wait, but they would if it had a fifteen they know the system, which means they can And this family who comes once every three no matter the wait, but because they come so they have to wait longer, which they do And to raise the stakes, for the regular vistor is abstract, as they paid a fixed annual price while this family, knows exactly how much inside of the park that day, increasing the increasing the amount of time they are willing And because capacity of rides are determined so this exact scenario plays out over and just wonder, hey if you have a limited amount that don't want them for $30. Instead, just get rid of the system, and let Some rides will have long waits, some rides will be making a personal decision based on they are at playing the My Disney Experience I know that some might disagree with this there is a level of subjectivity to this. Your experiences are not incorrect, FastPass+ to have incredible vacations, but based on real life, the truth is that, in practice, no system, and it often was the opposite. Perhaps the best compromise between FastPass+ the original paper FastPass system, in its This retains the guest distribution benefits natural self-selection process that guests Most importantly, while knowledge remains FastPass system reset every single day. With FastPass+, when guests arrived at the the system. FastPasses for the most popular rides had With paper FastPass, guests might find themselves but they could quickly learn it and be properly This is why Disneyland's MaxPass system It was essentially the original FastPass system, only caveat being that it cost money to utilize, The original paper FastPass was an idea that FastPass Plus, by all indications, was a system Its intention was not to make operations more be a key part of a larger guest experience So it should not be shocking to suggest, based guests and operations would fare better without But what am I talking about, they spent a rid of anything. So.... (Ominous Music) (ROAR) So what started as a neat little idea has is now actively eating guests at the park, You could kill the monster, but you don't making it and some guests have befriended so that would be sad for them. Ok so we're not killing it. What if the monsters was friends with everybody. Can't do that, as long as the monster is of people. What if the monster had more friends than In order for the monster to be able to have FastPass users, there would need to be more This could be done by adding new attractions, induced demand, which is when increasing the The most common example being a highway adding it actually increases congestion. This is not perfectly comparable to theme The reason traffic increases when you add supply reduces the price, or in this case, in response. New drivers are not generated simply by the in theme parks this is the case. New rides, especially good ones, almost always gained by the addition. Also, building new rides is expensive and What if you could increase the capacity of As we've discussed ride capacity is finite, You can't just put more ride cars on Space What if it wasn't finite? Well unfortunately it is, unless you were the first one, so they did that. But that's an easy one, you can't do that theater for Soarin', you can actually and But that was to support the new Soarin Around that with a ride just to quietly increase But despite all of these strategies to increase monster continued to grow for a factor we Attendance. When paper FastPass was introduced in 1999, annually. When XPass was developed in 2008, 47.1 million By the time FastPass+ rolled out in 2013, In 2014, 51.5 million people visited. In 2015, 54 million. By 2019, over 58 million people were visiting since when FastPass+ was introduced. The FastPass system was designed to be dynamic was unpredictable, and FastPass+ did not operate Some parks fared better than others. For instance, Magic Kingdom has a wide array demographics. When attendance increases, not all of those ride. If the park has an annual increase of 100,000 ride Space Mountain. Compare this to a park like Animal Kingdom, Avatar a heavily promoted and well-received many attractions to offer. From 2016 to 2017, Animal Kingdom saw an increase From 2017 to 2018, it saw an increase of an Because this was sparked by a single land to assume that the majority of these visitors but that they were determined to. Not only were they determined to, but it was Kingdom in the first place. This is known as inelastic demand, when the on the amount of people to ride it. This was the case of Flight of Passage, as away. As a result, wait times increased to 1 hour, day, there was a posted 6 hour and forty minute So with attendance increasing, and with additional to notice the issues. In response, departments throughout Walt Disney FastPasses. Guest services wanted more Fastpasses for they needed more Fastpasses at the 60 day perks. In 2018, club level guests at select resorts allowing them to book six fastpasses in advance, day mark for an up charge of $50 per person The more FastPasses that were handed out the Then, in the summer of 2019, Universal Orlando theme park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter's The new ride was heavily anticipated and drew There was only one issue, it did not work, This led to frequent downtimes throughout paired with the massive demand, waits climbed Why is this relevant? Because, also in the summer of 2019, Disney Galaxy's Edge. After reports that crowds for the new land of Disney Parks, Experiences and Products quote, "The deep secret is that we don't capacity, the rides don't go down and it have 10-hour lines. So, 10-hour lines are not a sign of success. It should be seen as a sign of, frankly, failure." Coincidentally, Disney was about to debut Rise of the Resistance, the land's signature work consistently, and the ride was primed resulting in huge wait times. Under pressure to open the ride anyways, Disney times remained under control, to keep guests the chairman of the parks publicly deemed earlier. When Rise of the Resistance opened at Walt a new virtual queue system that completely guests boarding groups that would be called The idea reportedly came from, of all places, system in which guests calling the help line on hold. So that's where we are everybody. The virtual queue nearly eliminated lines guests frustrated when boarding groups ran the app informing guests that the ride was sun had even come up, but hey, there were Speaking of new systems, also in 2019, at whatever this is. "It's called Disney Genie" (Applause geared towards your interests at your fingertips, So with the old system raging on, a new one the beast was growing faster than ever. Every attempt to fix the problem was at best made the monster's damage worse. The amount of guests that the system benefited more loyal to it than ever, because it was at the parks. The more FastPasses that were added to the people that came to the parks, the more the Walt Disney World had succumbed to the beast. "Well, boss, good news. We broke everything." "Huh? What do you mean?" "You know that thing that doesn't directly on?" "Yeah..." "Well it's broken, but on the bright side, Look." "Those people are just trying to go to the "Eating them? I don't know." "Why isn't it eating those people?" "Oh, those people are friends with it." "Oh my gosh, how is this good news?" "Everything is broken." "Yeah but how is that good?" "Come on boss don't you see? Everything is broken, which means we can charge "Huh." "Right now, most of the people that have our hotels, and as a perk, the monster won't But our research shows that getting rid of all that much, so instead, let's just start Look at this graph, this kind of advantage an additional charge." "Dotson, you're a genius." "Boss, that's not even the best part. Look at these people, they're where the "We're going to charge people to have "No of course not, but we're going to See, it takes these people 10 hours to do walking, bathroom breaks, or meals. The park is only open for 12 hours. There's no way they're going to do those "They'll have to come another day, which "They'll have to buy more tickets!" "Exactly, either they buy into the system or they have to do multiple days, which means "This really is genius." "And all it took was a billion dollars and "Well Dotson, in life, you win some, you both at the same time." "There's just one problem, the friends us when we charge for this." "You're right. That would a PR nightmare. It would take some sort of global cataclysmic enough for us to make drastic changes to our a shield from criticism of those changes." (Thunder crack) "Breaking just in to our news room. A historic move amid the Coronavirus. Walt Disney World and Universal Orlando, both "And your reaction?" "Sad. Heh heh." "Do you understand why?" "Yeah." "Yes" After being closed for four months for the in July of 2020, while Disneyland would not When they did, both Fastpass Plus and Maxpass and a new park reservation system was implemented Bob Chapek was now the CEO of Disney, after 2 weeks before the world shut down. Chapek commented on the changes coming to nobody wants to have the parks closed for But at the same time, we realized that was things that would have been difficult, if operating environment. And so we've made some moves already, but These moves were revealed in August of 2021, and MaxPass would be officially discontinued. Replacing the programs would be the long-anticipated The Genie app would use all of Disney's to intelligently plan itineraries in order Unlike FastPass+, Genie is simple. There are now four ways to visit attractions, Lane through Genie Plus or Lightning Lane For any ride, guests can still choose to wait in which they can't, which are the ones If an attraction is using virtual queue, guests to join the virtual queue from their phones. If they don't get a boarding group then inside the park at 1 pm. If guests don't want to wait in the standby per day, they can upgrade to Genie+, which them to obtain one Lightning Lane Pass every except rather than being inside the park they at 7 am on the day of. However, not all Lightning Lane attractions for additional purchase with varying prices For instance, the Lightning Lane for Rise standby queue, will cost $15 per person. So guests either pay $15 per person to enter if it is available, if not they need to wake just pay the $15 per person to enter the lightning See, simple, and hugely popular. Or is it? Who's to say? There were rumors of paid FastPass long before Disneyland, Disneyland Paris, and Shanghai FastPass system, and with the introduction remaining park to utilize free FastPass, still There's two ways to look at this change, version. The optimistic version is that Disney is once of the parks, this time by reducing the amount If this occurs, it will reduce standby wait the option to experience more. The fact that they are using the MaxPass model of, seems to be a deliberate attempt to reduce Combining this with rising ticket prices, system to place a cap on guests and predict more control over crowds than ever. Plus, the Genie app's suggestion and itinerary positive distribution features of FastPass+, of the park, and it could even increase the The pessimistic version is that Disney wants They increase ticket prices not to reduce can. They're not charging for FastPass to get for it because they can. The $15 price for Genie Plus seems to be a of vacationers to buy into the system, and Plus, every travel agent and vacation guide the system, because $15 to experience all spreading out a park visit over two or more The paid FastPass system also gives Disney times, and favor Lightning Lane over standby point becoming even more difficult. The truth might be somewhere in the middle Disney understands they need to reduce usage rid of it, they choose the option that also So far, the amount of passes offered seems With Lightning Lane on popular attractions knows if this will remain the case. As with FastPass and FastPass Plus the true be seen for quite some time. So the FastPass Beast has finally been killed, behind stronger paywalls. Maybe it will get out one day, or maybe it it has become. In a way, we've truly come full circle. In 1971, Magic Kingdom opened with a ticket ride each ride, and exactly 50 years later rides, or at least skip the line. Despite a similar destination, the path that the past five decades was anything but predictable, light on an oft-overlooked aspect of the theme We have examined ad nauseum the ways in which immersive worlds that transport guests out story of FastPass is one of the rare tales operations. If the Imagineers job is to design and construct it is the job of operations managers, Cast and maintain these environments, and their than one might initially think. When operations finds strategies and tests guest experience to the next level, they are but they are supporting the environments and level of escapism. There is no better example of this than FastPass. Long lines have always been a disruptive force experience and often the design intentions After all, the real world has lines, at the Attempting to remove them, or at least giving potential to create an experience better than immersion of the parks. However, with the evolution of FastPass, we Instead of operations creating a reality better of the real world were allowed to creep in. Whether guests were separated by knowledge situation, utilizing a system that allows intention, uniqueness, and beauty of the theme This is not to say that these strategies weren't see many more in the future. As we know, queueing is always evolving, and be, but what does seem certain, is that as there will probably be a wait for it. So, I'll ask you again, how much do you