(upbeat dance music) - Hey. - Let me order you a drink. - No, I'm fine. It's a brand new me. Money is my new drug. - It's my favorite. You found offices. - Right on Main Street - [Bob] Ooh. So, what's your first move? - You got these land They find pristine recreational property, build McMansions and sell the dream. Some, like Jenkins, they take it further, build hotels, subdivisions, but they all leave with their tails tucked because they don't have the cash flow to make a real business outta land. - You do that in town. - Or you do this. We set up a fund. That fund buys land, puts the land in a conservation easement, which cuts the property tax by 2/3. Then, we go to the we enroll the land in a CRP. - What the hell is CRP? - It's the federal government - Why would they do that? - To control the supply, Bob. That way, they don't have diluting the market. It's pretty fucking shitty, but it's great for us. The government pay per acre per year. - How much? - Depends on the land. Around here, could be $300, $400 an acre. The government pay off the and we become landlords - Sounds like a pyramid scheme. - With the government at the bottom. We start with a $100 If we funnel the CRP funds we can buy roughly 50,000 acres per year without spending a dime. We are profitable by the end of year two with a net revenue of The more land we buy, the more that number grows. - Why hasn't anyone done this before? - Because they can't afford the two years. They don't have the The Dan Jenkins of the world don't have this much junk in their shorts. Know what I mean? (upbeat dance music playing softly) How are you fixed for junk, Bob? (upbeat dance music playing softly) (people chattering) - I understand what's in this for me. Beyond your fee, what's in it for you, Beth? Because something's buried - I'm making you money, Bob, and I am digging a 200-square-mile moat around my father's ranch. (upbeat dance music playing softly) - We put the land into the hedge fund, use the brokers to buy up the land. Don't haggle on price, That's how I'm fixed for junk. (upbeat dance music playing softly) - I always knew you tucked (people chattering) (heels clicking) - I need another one of these from anyone. (chuckles) (whoosh) - These fucking students. Can I help you? Oh, just looking for something more appropriate for school. (music) (music) (music) (music) - Excuse me. Excuse me. - You've got to be kidding me. - I need to look in your purse. - Then get a warrant. - Call the police. This isn't my first rodeo with you people. - What exactly are my people? - Police are on their way. (music) - In for it now, you little bitch. (music) (bag shuffling) (phone vibrating) - Hi. - [Monica] I need help. (suspenseful music) (door squeaks) - Beth, we're closed at the moment. We- - [Worker] Who? - My sister-in-Law. (music) (curtain rattles) (music) (music) - Well, I am no lawyer, but I believe it's the Fourth Amendment that deals with unlawful - This search is voluntary. - Sure doesn't look voluntary to me. (camera clicks) Leave her alone. Get dressed. (curtain rattles) - Let's go. (clothes shuffling) - Thank you. - Wait. Don't go. (door clicks) You'll miss all the fun. While I'm here, (shoes clicking) I might as well shop. Oh, that's nice. (decor banging) (glass shattering) Nah, not for me. (items crashing) (whoosh) - [Bob] That's a pretty and their activity in the valley has our holdings up 20%. - I'm not poking them. It is an opportunity, Bob. If they thought their airport they would be screaming Tell me. It is not ripe to short. - [Bob] When you put the word out, they're gonna know it's you. - Well, I'm not gonna put the word out. You are. It is ripe to short. Do you disagree? - [Bob] They're exposed, it's true, and it's gonna cut 'em pretty deep and they're gonna come out swinging. - Yeah, well that's just life You wanna call the fund - [Bob] I'll take the managers, but Beth, just a little leak. Just a leak, you know? Do not blow up the dam. - Oh, come on, Bob. You know me better than that. - [Bob] That's why I'm saying just a leak. - A medium leak. Anything worth doing's worth doing right. Right? Thank you. I'll call you back. - [Person On Phone] Stock Trader. - Hi. Is Adam Tilley still running press releases? - [Person On Phone] Yep. - Put me through to him. - [Person On Phone] One moment. - And stocks continued as two more oil companies were added to the U.S. trade blacklist. Both companies are for securities fraud and in the largest dip of the day, investment firm Market Equities falls over 7.5%. - [Reporter] Causing (remote bangs) (suspenseful music) - That fucking bitch. (whoosh) (heels clicking) - That's my desk. - Not anymore. It's my desk now. My computer, my office furniture, my office. What's that saying cowboys use? Fuck with the bull and you get the horns. Well, you fucked with the bull. - Bet you practiced saying - For an hour. I prepare for everything. I anticipate every possible outcome and I would've expected the same from you, but if you had given this any thought, you would've known that leads to me sitting right here. - When you find yourself of the Alamo, Willa, the outcome has already been decided. The only thing left to do is before they kill you. - I respect that. (suspenseful music) You certainly got your kills. Little bitch. Cost my shareholders billions, but now, as a result, my shareholders are majority owners of Schwartz &amp; Meyer and you, you're fired. So, thank you for all that land We have big plans for this valley and after the sting of this phase, you should give me a call. You could do very well working for me (suspenseful music continues) - When all this is over, I'm gonna hang your diploma above my toilet in my guest house. (suspenseful music continues) - You have my word. (heels clicking) - Like I said, you gotta then we'll talk. (suspenseful music continues) - The sting never fades with me. (lighter clicks) It is a painful lesson and one you're about to learn. (suspenseful music continues) - I really like her. (whoosh) - What are we talking about? - Your severance package. - (chuckles) Fucking vultures. So, here's an idea. Don't honor the contract - We aren't concerned with the payout, but we are concerned with the parameters, in particular, the non-compete clause and the non-disclosure agreement. - Yeah, that should concern you. - You have a - Oh, you have no idea, buddy. (people chattering) (glass rattling) I doubt they can shrivel anymore, but it was worth the shot. I made you a fortune, a fortune, and when my family was you quit me. (suspenseful music) Here's what I recommend, Bob. Retire. Retire before I take (suspenseful music continues) - Schwartz &amp; Meyer owns half the land on the north side of the Yellowstone. We shouldn't pick a fight (suspenseful music continues) - You co-own the land, Bob. (suspenseful music continues) You gotta read the fine print, Bob. I'm the bigger bear. (suspenseful music continues) (whoosh) say hello to the new boss. Same as the old boss. - I'm very different I came up at a time when was greased to keep women off it. I climbed it anyway, stepping over some little bitch like you on every rung. The big dog is off the porch now, Beth, and I will tear you to fucking pieces starting with an SEC for market manipulation You wanna fight? Let me introduce you to the That's behind door number one. Behind door number two is common ground. - Fire away. - You put together a land - I put together a land Schwartz &amp; Meyer is a minority investor with no controlling interest. - Smart. - I thought so. - We'd like to make an offer on it. - Not for sale. - That should be your family's motto. Jamie leased us what he could have sold and made the ranch 100 times It'll be 50 years before the Stubbornness is not a It's how you'll lose the ranch altogether. You're smart enough to know that. - Oh, I know it and if we still own it by you're my first call, but in the meantime, his dream is my Alamo and I will die on the - Come and work for us and I'll help you defend it. (Beth laughs) - Doing what? - What you do. You're a corporate raider. Come and raid for Market Equities. - You apply logic to your I respect that, but asking a wolf to protect the sheep, that is a mistake. - And you are smart enough to know that. - You can have the sheep, Beth. I've taken all your father's You wanna save the rest of it? Find me something better. - What are you building now? - Every resource of Montana can be grown somewhere else for less. The fantasy of the West is its only resource of any value. Colorado embraced that decades ago. It's time Montana did the same. Build me Aspen. Build me Breckenridge. I want a destination town in every valley, but I need an insider to do that. This is a name-your-price offer, Beth. - You have controlling interest of Schwartz &amp; Meyer now, right? That's my price. - You want a piece of Schwartz &amp; Meyer? - I want your piece. (suspenseful music) You give me that, I'm yours. - You're going to fire him. - I'm gonna bankrupt him first. I want his fucking grandchildren on welfare. You break your word to me, lady, I'll do the same to you. (suspenseful music continues) (heels clicking) - May I help you? Excuse me. Ma'am? Excuse me. Excuse me. (door clicking) I called security. - That's fine. Close the door, please. (suspenseful music) What do you want, Beth? - That's my seat. - Your seat. - That's right, Bobby. You're sitting in my seat. (chuckles) Man, I drove seven hours (suspenseful music continues) - You have no idea what - I am the new president Montana Division. I oversee all new development. - Oh. That must be quite the Congratulations. - No salary, Bob. No stock options, no percentage of profit. I wonder if you can guess to take a job doing exactly what my family have been (suspenseful music continues) - Their interest in Schwartz &amp; Meyer. (suspenseful music continues) - Their controlling interest, Bob. Yeah, you bet on the wrong horse. (suspenseful music continues) You are fired. (suspenseful music continues) - You're fired, too, you nosy bitch. All this shit is moving to Montana. (whoosh) - Phase two, green. Phase three, blue. Phase four, yellow. Now, you'll notice in phase one, we lay infrastructure - So, you're laying in roadways, electric, sewage for all phases in phase one? - In the long term, it's Laying infrastructure in - Kyle, this makes assumptions that we can't make right now. This is a design meeting. - Can I see an ownership plat over this? - It's not relevant at this time. - Well, if you're building roads and sewers on land that you don't own, I'd say it's pretty fucking relevant. - Well, I guess we're gonna find out who you're loyal to, Beth. - No one mentioned this to me. - Beth, there are two You saw the airport design. - Yes. - So, who did you think You said it yourself. You'd turn it into Park City. Well, this is Park City. (suspenseful music) - [Crowd] Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. Fur is murder. - 'Course you'd shop here. My idea of shopping is calling and having her fill a box the size of a fucking refrigerator. You think you're making a difference? Shaming some plastic surgeon's wife out of buying a mink coat today? What does that save? Not the mink. Mink's already dead. - Not the next mink. - Yeah, he's dead too. 15 of you standing in front of a store yelling at patrons, that isn't making a difference. You know, this store is Okay? The engine of the problem This isn't saving the This is just inflating your ego with very little effort and when Mommy and Daddy and subsidizing this utter waste of time, you'll go away. Meanwhile, the world continues getting raped. - What the hell do you know about protecting the environment? (people chattering) I know they're building 15 miles from the National Park and a ski resort the size of Crested Butte and condos and hotels and shopping plazas and restaurants in the most fragile but you just keep protesting You can sip your skinny margaritas and pat yourself on the back. We'll all get drunk enough of that couscous eating - You make that up about the airport? (people chattering) - Give me your phone. (people chattering) - This one, this is a little above your pay grade. This one takes effort, strategy, sacrifice, risk, real risk, not that bullshit that you pulled with my brother. - Why the fuck do they - They're not in the They're in the business of want and they want it, 'cause it's gonna make and they do not care how many animals they have to kill build it. (people chattering) (whoosh) (door click) (papers smack) - When people come here, they expect their opponents people of the land, I guess you could say. They don't expect you. They don't expect a fight. That's why you have been such an effective nuisance for so long. I, however, was aware of just what a I was prepared. I gave you enough rope to hang yourself, and oh boy, did you fucking hang yourself. You have violated everything from the terms of your You have committed corporate espionage. - I don't know anything about that. - Look at the ease with which you lie. Do you think I don't know We own that fucking building! (suspenseful music) What do you suppose we'll find when I subpoena the little and the reporter's? - Good luck with that. First Amendment and all. - I manage the largest and you know what you've done? You've made it personal for me. I don't care how much we I'm gonna put a public restroom where your fucking house is. I'm gonna chop down every I am going to rape your and you, you little bitch, are going to prison. (suspenseful music continues) Needless to say, you're fired. (suspenseful music continues) (whoosh) they fired me for cause and that my severance should be nullified by me violating their company's NDA. Then, they're gonna sue me saying that I negotiated in bad faith. Therefore, the ownership should also be nullified. Then, they're gonna sue the and seek to initiate imminent - All those things seem likely. - No shit. (suspenseful music) Market Equities is your - Yes. - Don't you wanna fuck 'em - I want to fuck 'em over a lot, just don't wanna get - Well, I will place the land in a conservation easement, okay? Since this is the land they their development is done, no matter what a fucking They will write down $1 billion in losses and 20 times that in lost revenue over the next 10 years. I still control this place, so I can still sell it, and when I do, there is not a court in this country that can give it back. It's another $2 billion and that is how CEOs get fired. There is zero risk to you. You will inherit 12 generating half a billion in profits and $40 million in your and it didn't cost you a dime. (suspenseful music continues) Where's the rattlesnake in the deal? (suspenseful music continues) I am the rattlesnake, but you're not who I'm gonna bite.