Exploring and settling the The pioneers of resourceful and creative settled the Western frontier. They faced long, harsh their supplies would last so they got creative Pioneer cuisine may seem but the settlers had what they had to survive Today, we're looking at the ate in the Old West. But before we get started, be History channel and let us other food-related history Ho-ho-ho. Cookie's done some cooking. Come and get it. Everyone loves gelatin desserts. Right? You put my stuff in jello again! The pioneers certainly did. Unfortunately, no one would so they improvised by It was an inexpensive dessert The recipe is simple. Just mix some eggs, lemon, Oh, and don't forget to to create the gelatin. Once the gelatin cools, mix it and you've got yourself Some Old West cooks by adding white wine, to the recipe. One Virginia recipe crushing the egg shells and The most in-depth came from Home of Tried Receipts, Both by Mrs. J. Chadwick in 1853. Boil four feet in one reduced to two quarts. Strain and let stand overnight. Take off the fat and add to the juice of four lemons, Stir it well together and Let it boil for half an hour. Then, skim and put into Should it run it must be returned until it will pass the Mm. Just like me mum used to make. The sweet version of calves' in the Old West, but savory called p'tcha, existed long The dessert doesn't come up but p'tcha is still available York's Second Avenue Deli and at [MUSIC PLAYING] Starting your day of the most delicate possible on the Real coffee was a bit so quick-thinking pioneers when they couldn't Everything from could be ground up and used Pioneers derived one of the more from sweet potatoes. Pioneers would peel, cook, before forming They'd mix the patties with and finally grind Sweet potatoes weren't an but the drink had a few fans. One December 1861 recipe from suggests mixing the powder Peel your potatoes, and Dry them in the Then, cut into to go into the coffee mill. Then grind it. Two tablespoons full of ground potatoes will make eight clear, pure, and well-tasted. Maybe the best part of was sweet potato in your cup. [MUSIC PLAYING] Most of us often dine on roast but would probably never of Pepe Le Pew, of wanting you to do so. But the pioneers didn't have Many pioneers survived on eating or hunt out in the wilderness. Skunks live in several and Mexico, so it was before the stinky critters literally. Skunks provide a surprisingly though not as much One old pioneer recipe for roast skunk, remove the scent glands before And skunk, if you don't know, You likely won't find a roast today, but that from trying it more recently. According to a 1959 issue the meat is light and tastes better than Well, I guess William Howard [MUSIC PLAYING] Pioneers had no when it came to making Despite a few attempts at during the mid-1700s, lemons until the mid to To get around their made substitutions They took advantage of sorrel, a small flowering as buckwheat. Sheep sorrel was so it was much easier to Cooks would shred the leaves giving the pastry a Sure, it's not lemon meringue, [MUSIC PLAYING] There's nothing quite like of tartness. Fresh produce like apples available in the Old West. Pioneers sometimes compensated to flavor desserts. Primarily used for medicine apple cider vinegar for flavoring a pie. The tart apple or citrus was close enough to satisfy travelers Vinegar pie is still prepared Martha Stewart even has a pie that involves plenty of and butter, instead of the lard [MUSIC PLAYING] After a day of hard work there's nothing better of your favorite stew. Despite its quirky name, is a testament to the pioneer It was also an parts of the young steer that SOB stew was a mix of lean marrow, sweetbreads, chopped up into small Then, the pioneers of salt and pepper and hot It was a practical cowboy every morsel counted, not a recipe you'd want to find [MUSIC PLAYING] Just like coffee traditional flour wasn't Instead, they turned to and acorns to make bread. The idea of using ground acorns but they were and made an Producing the flour the acorns to remove then grinding them Pioneers could use the acorn to make bread or just about requiring flour. [MUSIC PLAYING] Everyone had a different method in the Old West. Eating on the Wild Side, collected several born from these methods. One such culinary delight Despite a somewhat head cheese is not Instead, it's a made from leftover meat region of an animal. The meat is soaked in and boiled down. Next, it's chopped and cooled in a pan or mold. Some head cheese of savory gelatin, called aspic. After that, it's merely a The size of a bear meant it of meat for pioneer families. Making head cheese every good part of extra food for a long journey. And if you find yourself with or brawn, as our British just head down to your [MUSIC PLAYING] Following the honorable prairie or mountain oysters in the American West. More commonly known as Rocky caviar, people make Testicles? Tell them why Well, the trick is, you've got Bull calf testicles that In the Old West, experimented with in their search for They eventually discovered that particular part of the Cowboys considered and they often peeled, battered, Today, Rocky available at festivals, often served as appetizers. [MUSIC PLAYING] Are you looking for an to beef broth? Why not make some beef tea? Recipes for the liquid but beef tea proved They made the tea by boiling then straining it It served a practical for weak constitutions. Pioneers sometimes used beef and as a remedy for illness. Ah, beef tea-- it's just The process for making the tea Lamb, chicken, and make an adequate substitute [MUSIC PLAYING] Like many other animals the for food, jackrabbits of the pioneer diet. They were plentiful and them a quick, hearty meal. Jackrabbit meat was lean like any other meat, making it a West. But like any fast food, alone caused a problem rabbit poisoning. Now known as a type the condition is caused diet with no other nutrients. It mimics extreme despite the adequate by consuming jackrabbit meat. Jackrabbit meat was the condition in some It didn't deter them from and rabbit meat is still of the world today. [MUSIC PLAYING] Before modern made it possible to fresh meat was a for settlers in the Old West. It would spoil on wagon to hunt when they could. Deer and buffalo weren't but squirrels often were. Squirrels became an option for those days when Hunters clipped the bark off causing them to Then, the hunters attempted without damaging the on their frames. All right. You guys want these Fried. Fried. [MUSIC PLAYING] Even cowboys like to have a Frizzled beef made for and occasional dinner. It was easy to make, too, in milk, butter, and flour and of its ingredients, the dish than some of the Better yet, the ingredients as the only perishable is the milk. Modern recipes might add to the recipe and serve it Frizzled beef can also and served with gravy. Our friends in the military by a different name, SOS Bread and biscuits were just as as they are today. Ovens weren't typically so settlers cooked these classic The result was frying which is different from Frying pan bread with a simple recipe baking powder, salt, and water. The pioneers used resulting in more dense That was probably a good thing, them for the long haul. So what do you think? What Wild West food Let us know in the comments check out some of these other