[sax-laden jazz music] Greetings folks, and this time on LGR, I've be satiated in a highly specific way. And that is with Socket 7: a particular x86 such classic processors as the Pentium MMX The end goal here is twofold: one, I want from around 1996, '97. And two, I wanna redo the SBC build I did Or rather, use the Baby AT case that I built the drives and the power supply. Cuz yeah, toward the end of that video I came a more appropriate ISA backplane for the SBC To quote myself: -&quot;If I were to re-do this, I would use this I don't know, maybe I will. I might just take the whole thing apart and Welp, masochism confirmed I guess. Cuz I'm redoing that entire SBC 486 in another left for something completely different: a And my specific reasoning to build this exact The first reason is that here on LGR I'm Megaluminum Monster to test different hardware and those use Socket 3 and Socket 370, respectively. But as time goes on, I'm increasingly finding a Pentium III, something that specifically And it's gotta be at a speed that's not of hardware from 1996, '97 where particular and graphics card combos work best. And that's where Socket 7 comes in, since two 90s systems, ideal for early PCI 3D accelerators. Another main reason for this build is, of an excuse to revisit some old memories. Like in 1997 when I got my second computer, molded in a funky wavy shape. I loved that thing, it was a Windows 95 Socket processor running at 233 megahertz. One of these right here actually, a delightful directly with the Pentium MMX lineup from Level 1 cache, and supporting the MMX instruction However, we're not gonna use this processor Instead, I'm going with a slower variant. It's still a K6, just running at 166 megahertz. Cuz yeah, I've already got the Aspire running And I would use that as a project box. But the thing is though, upgrading that machine its irritating split motherboard and lackluster Which brings us back to this Socket 7 build but not too different. Plus I can pick a motherboard that isn't crap. Yeah I wasn't kidding about having a highly I know precisely what I want outta this build Starting with that 166MHz K6, paired with P55T2P4 from 1996, revision 2.3. A true classic that was well respected in even now, having become an old standby among There are dozens of us, dozens! And this particular board's merits and pitfalls it a true pleasure to work with a quarter In addition to its support of all the exciting cool 64MB cacheable EDO DRAM via four 72-pin Expandable up to 512 megabytes, TAG SRAM upgrade chip like this one right here. I'm only installing 32 megs of 60 nanosecond for the software I plan on running. On-board Level 2 cache varies, with this example But that too can be expanded using a compatible the L2 pipelined burst cache to 512K. Doesn't make a huge difference to gaming Also nice are the floppy and dual IDE controllers for serial and parallel ports. And even one for connecting a PS/2 mouse breakout The keyboard still uses the older 5-pin AT and it's also the motherboard's only integrated port. Finally there's even a header for infrared Yeah, USB in 1996! This actually predates the final specification, "current operating systems don't actually support USB" so it's disabled until future support arrives. Obviously that happened, so now you can add as long as the voltage pinout matches the One of the not-so-great "features" is among 90s PC enthusiasts due to the fact that and aren't straightforward to replace. As is often the case, it's soldered in directly have to modify the chip to install a coin The mod looks ugly in my view, so I decided it with a brand new battery. There are still new Dallas-compatible clocks but eh, there are better options nowadays. Like this fantastic little module from GlitchWorks, RTC that accepts standard CR1225 coin cell Yeah, I bought a bunch of these a while ago ideal replacement for the 12887 as far as The motherboard is also running the venerable Intel 430HX chipset, with three 16-bit ISA slots and four PCI 2.1 slots. One of which known as MediaBus 2.0. This allows for proprietary expansion cards card combo, taking up only one expansion slot Although this card uses an older MediaBus And finally, there's overclocking. The P55TxP4 series is notoriously overclockable, to take bus speeds up to 75 and even 83MHz. A pretty unique feature back in '96, and I won't be messing with it in this video, though it's something I hope to check out in the future. And finally then there's the BIOS itself, The classic Award Software CMOS Setup Utility with the BIOS itself easily being flashable Something I'm gonna go ahead and do, since available that adds support for newer CPUs Pardon the messy setup, I just had a buncha to test components before going further. Anyway, yeah. Without this update, connecting IDE drives and caused problems with system stability. Of course, I'm installing Windows 95 where size anyway, so you'd think it wouldn't But in my case it does, since I had this old use, and without the BIOS update it wasn't a smaller partition size. With the update it's no problem, so I've all my programs, which is plenty of space. I considered using this big ol' beefy boy, And while it would've been era-appropriate, the reliability has never been, ah. Reliably reliable. So I'm sticking with a newer partitioned and I'm also gonna be installing this CF to IDE adapter. That way I have a drive I can quickly swap files to and from the internal hard drive, the operating system itself. And to make it both accessible and appealing enclosure I got from an LGR viewer named Mark. He reached out and offered to design this this exact CompactFlash adapter that I wanted to fit in a 3.5-inch drive bay, and I think it turned out great. He's got an eBay storefront too, I've and drive bays from him that are super useful Bout the only things left are sound and graphics endless with PCI cards of the mid to late So in the interest of doing I'm going with an Audician 32 I don't wanna just use a Sound Blaster 16, I've already got an Aureal Vortex in my 98 Plus I wanted something with solid support header and a real OPL3 chip on-board to get And for video I'm going with two cards, the card for handling the Windows GUI and non-accelerated It's not something I've chosen for any the show is this 3dfx Voodoo card. The Canopus Pure 3D, with a whopping six megabytes This one's a donation from an LGR viewer named sealed up and never used until now. This is gonna be awesome, I love early Glide and I'm really curious how this particular card performs. And that's most of the housekeeping prepwork Let's go ahead and dive into the actual and test out the system with some classic PC games! [music fades] Okay! First up, I'm going to get and thankfully it's one of those cases where the backside completely slides out. I don't recall if I actually did this on the But yeah, there's the whole motherboard tray And yeah, I've already gone ahead and installed I mean you know you don't need to see that So yeah, this will be the C drive and then adapter thing will be accessible from the front. And as for the motherboard itself, yeah, just I'm not using any extra cache, 256k is fine. It doesn't really affect gaming or anything have TAG installed because I only have As for the processor I've actually got a Pentium Just going to boot it up with this first and Just want to show something on here and one of the reasons why I want to switch over to an AMD K6. This tray is one of those where it to go behind the board. But this one's a little longer this way. And really, the only two holes that line up are these two right here. That's it. Like none of the other standoff screw holes So the rest of this is just plastic pieces Only three of them. That go in there like that and there's nothing There's a couple of holes here for them but and all my standoffs are too tall. Think what I'm gonna do is just put a it has something behind there. I just don't like things flopping around like Okay. There we go, much more stable. Makes me feel better anyway. [silent, light screwing] All right. Dang it! Stupid sharp old cases! I swear, I need chainmail gloves working on Okay. Just a matter of getting all the daggum cables plugged in and I have made some attempts at cable management. At least zip-tying a bunch of things up and uh. Yeah, whatever. We'll, we'll do our best. Wow, I just noticed too, even if I was to this hard drive or it might actually be too Yeah, thankfully most of this I can just continue Same power supply. Same brackets on the back, except I've added since we have a header for that on here. Pretty much everything's the same otherwise. Oh yeah, I did replace the LED on the front of the case right here, because actually, I plugged into something I didn't put a resistor It was just sort of a hack job that didn't So anyway, replaced the LED. Other than that, it's all same stuff. [jazzy time-lapse interlude] Okay. So two of them aren't going to connect at all. I guess really three, because there's no turbo switch function on the motherboard itself. It's just always in the fast mode, so won't And the hard disk LED? There's no header for it in the main cluster So I'm assuming it's somewhere else. Okay, so it's JP20. Okay, so at least it's nearby. It's just somewhere... Other than the little main cluster All right, ribbon cable time! Great. Okay, we can finally get to some cards, kind This isn't really a card, guess this is another Not that I really need it for the system but It might work. If I really cram it all in there. It is still blocking this top PCI slot. If I move this down. Of course, now we got all these cables in [laughs in 90s cable management] There we go. All right, we're going to go with the S3 at Okay, there's that! The Voodoo card, that is going to be passing through that S3 card, into here and then out to a VGA monitor. And unlike a lot of other is this right here. Which is not S-Video, This is an input. So it came with this little I'll just plug in there and then this right So a little different than any of the other Interesting way of making it all fit in there Okay, video input dongle And then that plugs into the S3's VGA. And then that's that. The graceful setup of a Voodoo 1 pass through. And finally for the sound card. So this is the thing, I mentioned that the and it is, but this is such a short card like, I didn't really think about it because I was by Roland, get a proper sound canvas in there, the problem just immediately, right? Look at that, it's gigantic compared to the So that's not going to work. Of course, I've got other wavetable cards Reptile Paradise. Kind of one of those A lot of the same parts actually. Got a Roland GS-inspired sound set on there. But even though it's as small as it is, look, So that's not going to work either. I don't have anything that's smaller than So we're just going to go without wavetable I do have another wavetable card that is smaller So I'll just install that whenever I get it. Knowing my luck, it'll show up as soon as Yeah what I've got on the way is actually kind of like a really, really tiny version of this sort of thing. It's the Dreamblaster X2 GS. It was recently released in Serdaco's shop. It's in the mail, just who knows when it'll And that's all the cards, and pretty much I should have plugged that in first. Dang it. All right, there we go. Now that's everything! Ahh, right. So, I'll get it set up, boot it up with Windows Pentium chip that's in there. And then, we're going to switch over here once you see why I want to switch over to it. Well, one of the reasons other reasons is So yeah, let's boot it up, Alright, time to turn it on. Mmm. LEDs. [PC beeps] Drives spinning. And there we go! Yeah. I got that Windows 95 installation already Though I don't have the drivers for- yeah, I don't have the Voodoo drivers on there. I do have the S3 going cuz I had that are the latest drivers to the CF card there. So we'll see if we can get that going. Well yeah, I was afraid of that. I think I actually have to do the installation Should at least be able to get the Voodoo Yeah. Yeah, it's like a setup thing, so. Do it this way, Yamaha SAx! Sweet. Hopefully, that's all we need. I mean, I know it came with driver discs and I can pretty much always get newer ones online Thanks, PhilsComputerLab! There we go. Nice. I do have speakers on this little monitor. Excellent. I do have some things disabled. I only got one COM port going at the moment. The printer port is disabled. But yeah, I don't have anything plugged into There's the S3 Trio, doing its thing. Yeah. Voodoo graphics, game port, sound system, I don't know if it's actually pre-set them up. Doesn't look like there's any software. Maybe that's what the other disc is, for the Seeing -- well, okay. I thought there were like applications or something Well anyway, that's everything pretty much Obviously. Yay, things are working. All right well, I'm gonna go ahead Software and whatnot. Make sure everything is all configured and I'll be back in an amount of time. Probably tomorrow morning. [tada! shutdown sound] I mean, for you it'll be immediate but you Ooh! That message. Yeah, no soft power button here. Neat! Okay! So yeah, here it is next morning and I have last night, and in weeks prior actually. Like just out on the table to test things. And make sure it all worked and messing around working a little better than it was then. So, some of the things I was thinking that so that's fun. But anyway, we'll get to that. So, in terms of the software for the Audician when we got those drivers going. It was just the basic updated drivers. So that's, you know, it's fine. But I knew that there was some more to go So I installed the CD that came with it in You got this little Audician 3D sound enabler. Whatever that does. Just sort of emulates spatial sound around And then you got this YStation32, which is that I've seen in terms of these music player stacks. I still don't have a wavetable thingy and Maybe I'll do a Blerb update on that or something through the game port, and a soft synth. So that does sound a little different. [canyon.mid plays a little differently] Yeah, it's kind of your typical GS General But it's doing it through software, whatever. Just going to leave it on the OPL3-SA for Really quick though, since I still have the and haven't gotten the K6 going yet, let me just show you one of And that is Ubisoft's &quot;POD&quot; from 1997. [light chuckle] Again... You just don't get much. It just doesn't run. Looks like it'll start and it crashes. Just straight back to the desktop. So that is, unfortunately, not uncommon at There are just so many tiny, little quirks This is actually neither the same error that on the desk setup outside of the case. Some weeks ago, look at this, I was getting A &quot;system out of memory&quot; error. Or just some kind of memory-related thing. I don't know if that means RAM or video or This is one of those games where it is so and drivers and versions of Windows and everything. So I have just always had better luck with a hundred and thirty-three to two hundred So yeah, I'm gonna go ahead and install that, And this also will give us MMX capability And I got, this is cute little thing. Look at this. Thermal Master! Just a teeny little Socket I'll get rid of that. And use some Arctic MX-4 cuz I got build so, whatever. Swap this out really quick. And test a bunch of games. [jazzy processor removal music] Oh, look at that little guy. Crappy old thermal paste. Yeah, Intel Pentium. No MMX here. And then goes the K6. Wonderful. And of course, I will need to because it is a different thing. If I recall, it's just this one right here One of those has to be moved to the left or Eh I'll check the manual. [jazz tunes continue] And that's that. [computer quietly powers on] Ayy. There we go, AMD K6-166. That simple. Okay. [CD-ROM drive closes rudely] I need that. Daggone it! [Windows 95 startup sound] Okay, gonna give POD a try once again. So I'm just installing the regular game, not Okay, that's that, let's try it again. And there we go! And it even says Pentium MMX. It's kind of funny that I can't get that working I just always had better luck with, you know, certain graphics cards, all kinds of different Not too much to adjust in this version in it's just kind of is what it is. Let's go to Plant 21. There we go. [in-game announcer] And there's POD working. &quot;Go!&quot; Of course, no 3D acceleration here. It's just the MMX software rendered mode. But hey, it's not bad. This is not far off at all from how I played it back in the day. Software rendered on the AMD K6-233 with 32 back memories seeing the game look and run This is just -- it feels like proper POD. So, got a few more frames, but not like significantly I don't know. It's -- Pentium MMX! Or in All right, so that is that. Working very nicely. Also, this is kind of a fun little thing here. If we open CPU-Z then go over to the bench 133 and just kind of vaguely see the difference. And there we go. In blue is what we had before more or less, So, I mean, it's a pretty significant difference difference in the main clock speed. It mean it's a substantial upgrade. I really enjoy these old K6 chips. Aw man. Such memories. Uh yeah, so I've got a lot of things installed Just all kinds of stuff. I don't know how much of it I'm actually going We'll go through a fair number of them, but, We've got to. I think I've already got it set up, so... [Duke Nukem 3D starting up] [gameplay begins] Yeah! Look at it go. I mean we are only on 320x200. We're not pushing the resolution or anything And yeah, even though there's no wave blaster or whatever, it's fine. Because the OPL3 sounds as it should. Makes me happy, man. This thing is an awesome setup for mid to Of course, I got Quake. Not GLQuake. It's just regular old Quake. [zombies moaning, weapons blasting] Yeah. Looks awesome. Software rendering, I quite like it. I mean, you know. Yeah, all kinds of awesome stuff you can do like this. And I do want to do so. Right now, of course, I just have the 6MB That classic animation it plays when you start Let's go ahead and do that. one of my favorites from back then. Just the demo for Tomb Raider 2. Yeah! Played this one particular -- the Venice demo. A ton back then but, yeah, there are all kinds from PowerVR, Rendition. I've got a lot of them, there's a bunch more Stupid sniper, get outta here. There's a dog coming up. There you are, doggy! But yeah, even just the classic Voodoo, I Always is. This guy sucks. Stop beating me! Awful! Fine, I will go in the water, you turd. Anyway, look at this, 3Dfx Glide I think actually -- you know what, this might because I didn't see the splash screen at So, let's move over to something that I know will run in Glide mode. Need for Speed 2 SE for 3dfx, mm. One of the biggest reasons Look at that logo! I love that little spinny animation thingy. -&quot;Electronic Arts!&quot; Dude. I mean, I played the crap out of NFS2 But! Yeah, it looks good. Obviously, it is one of those games that really ...yeah, it does. All the graphical effects. [music blaring] [announcer] It's so loud. Oh my word. Okay. But yeah, like the rain, the fog, the shiny cars. And performance is still not like, incredibly but holy crap this was amazing at the time. It was so much better in software mode. *Than* software mode. Not *in* software mode. Now, I actually kind of prefer -- good grief ways just because it's kind of what I grew The 3Dfx mode is so much darker. It's just more shadowy and gray, but it's amazing back then, however, you don't get That is one trade-off. And uh. There's other trade-offs. But you put it in the menu that you got in Need for Speed 3 as well. I hate there's not much leeway with I like the monitor, but man, they're so... Course, another one I've gotta try, because And this uses, I believe, OpenGL? 3Dfx OpenGL, yeah I'm gonna do that. Of course, the original Quake also has its This looks like software! What is this? Yeah, it went back to software. Okay, well, whatever this is a kind of a cool So, look how bad this runs in just software. This is going to be running straight off of The Trio 64. [laugh of low framerate] Oh, man. Like, I honestly kind of like the way it looks. I'm a fan in a weird way of how software mode the textures and, yeah. The thing is though -- switch over to 3Dfx Yeah, look at that! [assorted Quake 2 ambiance] Totally different aesthetic, but that lighting. So cool! Obviously, it's still not totally silky smooth, 1997. [repetitious gunfire] I don't trust your body! Coming back and shootin' me Aww. You know, spent That's how it goes. Anyway, Quake 2! It was fantastic back then, Goes without saying. Of course, we can run all kinds of non-3D Good ol' Jazz 2 here. It still does take some advantage of better You're gonna have these slow menus and whatnot, We will still have some slowdown. Better CPU and graphics would certainly Whoops. Yeah, it's like whenever things get kind of effect there, I remember that. That can slow down on all kinds of different I tried to shoot ya. There ya go. In fact, I remember cranking it down to like Yeah that. Yeah, that definitely helps. But whatever. Still more than playable. Another one I wanted to Typically, you run into issues with textures [funky grooves] So yeah this is the upgraded Gold version 3Dfx capabilities and such. But yeah, anyway, usually if it's over 4 megs Then you run into some issues, like, I know However, this is a six-megabyte one, I've get the proper textures, like, on the road Usually, those are messed up. Huh! I mean it's... Yeah, you often see like street sign textures in the wrong color. All corrupt and stuff. This doesn't look like that, so. Awesome. Get over here, you punk. It's running pretty good too. Oh, man! Launched me. [laughs, car horn honking] Yeah, I mean, you know, the expected slowdown There we go. Okay now there is a little bit -- you see that? The steering wheel? That's the kind of stuff that you often can of over 4 megs combined memory. So I don't know if that's like just a temporary we're running into. Either way though -- dude, Interstate 76. That is pretty awesome. I've actually never seen the game run that and looking correctly on a 3dfx card. I've actually always been trying it on like 12 or 16 megs combined memory and, I just, I've never tried it on one of my Voodoo 1 cards. One last thing to try, mostly last, I want because we had this earlier, just the &quot;Large And, of course, here it is just normal. Both of these are software rendering. But you modes available, but it actually doesn't detect it unless it detects it. Now you can force that by copying over a Glide but my question is: will the updated version Hey, it does. Look at that, &quot;Large Installation for MMX It detects all kinds of things. Let's install Because this is, kind of like Interstate 76, one of those games that just has weird issues and usually get some textures than you do from Interstate 76. We'll see. Okay, the moment of truth. It has copied over the correct executable. Let's see. That is a good sign, man. I do not often see that. Seriously, if you've never gone through the on different systems. Oh, dude. All right. Sound is a little garbly, but uh... [garbled menu sounds] See, now here we have the graphics options Can't max the resolution but we can lower The kind of garbly sound is unfortunate. Maybe it'll clear up once we're actually in There's the 3D spinning cars that you get Oh! Nice! So nice. Aw, dude! It does have some of the garbled textures Not many though. [pleased chuckling] It's awesome seeing it run at all on an old Okay yeah, see there. Look at those textures, those are a little Not what it's supposed to be at all, obviously. Unless you're just going for an even more So how about, let's try Beltane? That one I remember being a good example of No, that looks pretty decent. Sometimes you'll get like these things just Black and white stripes. Pink stripes. Orange and blue. I've seen all sorts of weird things cuz system that I build that is even remotely This is one of the better results. It's actually better than I The speed is good though. Sometimes it doesn't quite figure out what the speed, even on a slower But no, this is pretty much ideal in terms Augh, that's awesome. So I think if I were to swap out the Voodoo how to say that. That one! That's in there, for a 4 meg one? but I'm happy with this for now. [laughs over garbled sound effects] Even with the garbly sound. Even with that. This is just awesome. Okay. I got a couple of little finishing touches for this video. [jazz music begins] All right! And the final thing I want to do is stickers! Because I got another shipment in, ordered from Geekenspiel. Look at these decals. So I got a lovely &quot;AMD K6 [whispers] Look at that. And the other one here, of course, some &quot;Designed for Microsoft Windows 95&quot; stickers made to look like the old style of those you get on OEM machines And yeah, if you remember, I still have that I mean, it also said 'food' on there at one I'm keeping that and the Energy Star thing, Normally I would stick like an LGR case badge [jazz tunes continue] Mm, yes! [growling voice] Satisfying! [music fades] Right, so with that, that is the AMD K6 Socket At least for now, since this really is a never-ending One that does precisely what I wanted in terms Windows 95 games circa 1997. Yeah the case is yellowed and cramped, but PCs back in the day. And I actually like how it looks so it's A tad slow, but that's the idea! I've got faster retro gaming rigs, I didn't I needed slow without being too slow, really an early 3D accelerator can make. And hopefully it'll provide a nice base of oddware and random software in the future, along with various 90s upgrades I wanna try out. For now though, I'm gonna continue enjoying and I hope that you enjoyed watching this all come together! Do check out my other build videos if you more LGR things already in the pipeline. And as always, thanks for watching!