- Today, we're gonna look at what you should never say to investor, things that will make them walk away. Investment killing statements. Yes, we're gonna dig into those investment killing statements. (upbeat music) We have a full panel of investors who've done and walked away from 1000s. Be aware though, this is a - I tend to walk away, and if it doesn't work, - Maybe you should not be considering investing in the startup - The single point of failure is something I never wanna invest in. - Damn! This could get interesting. You might already have lost an investment because of something that's in this video. Well, at least stick around, so it won't happen in the future. With the panel, we did a big brainstorm. Then we voted to find the So here we are, the nine things you should Let's get going. Number nine &quot;I'm a sole founder, &quot;and I don't need a strong team.&quot; Most investors do prefer but they'll also back a However, they will not back people that think they don't need a team. They will not back people that think they can do Building a startup is a team spirit. - No matter what they &quot;I have all this experience,&quot; That's great, but you still need to have a strong team around you. So I think that single point of failure is something I never wanna invest in. - Yes, you can be a brilliant founder, but building business as and the sooner we Some people are not capable of doing that. Even the founders that decide to go solo because going solo and or denying the necessity to build a complimentary - Number eight &quot;My founder and I just My co-founder at Vivino ties, and I have built businesses That is an incredible strength. - I look for a team, and that makes me a little If they know each other for a while, they've gone to school, they've grown up together, they've got this relationship, maybe two or three of them, and they each hold some in the startup, one's technologist, one's I think that helps a lot. So I look for teams that have a good background, can work together, can support each other, and you don't have a - One thing that I love that's getting back together again. That phrase to me is You get situations where a Once upon a time, they and going off and doing other things. And then a few years later, they decide just like all they decided they're gonna do one last job and they get back together again. And there's a beautiful They know what each other does. They can finish off They trust each other implicitly. And all of that is very powerful. - Hence they get back together though. So Abba, but that's one, right? - No, I agree. I just, I have this incredible company several pivots and the front narrative. They made like we've been best been through all of that And to me it was really powerful. And I would definitely bet on given that complex history of. - The fact that , you just met each other. It could be five, you but let's not make it a It's not a strength. Number seven. This will be a quick flip. We'll have sold the - What we're looking for is people who want to build something really large and really enduring. And so when someone comes to you and in that first half an hour tells you that they're And that really, this is all about trying to some quick cash. It's just not that exciting. It's not that we won't make money. It's not that I don't believe you. I mean, sometimes I don't because that kind of thing. But and even if I really believe build a business that could time, it's just not going to make model work. And if it doesn't work, then, then we can invest. - You should think You should think about making and giving yourself as Because your idea of may not be true. And then you're stuck with oh, I've got to sit down So it's how do you build Long-term to give yourself So I think anybody that wants naive about how the world works. - When you think about MNA larger enterprise it dies down. Because the multiple applied to startups that are like not a single company functioning mind will acquire that asset because it stuffs like, like a Turkey at the moment. So I do think that expecting to anyone. If you raise multiple is a pretty naive. - If you build a healthy And then you can show, you or we may do 10 other things with it. Also kudos to Olga for doing That was. - Perfect. - It's actually really hard something for a quick sale. And it doesn't happen now you've wants. You should always try and business. And the rest will come. Number six, we're closing around next week from other investors. Do we really want to create Let's see what the investors shape. - Yeah. I mean good for you. I mean, now it's harder because so fundraising are but for me, fundraising is a marathon, not a, not a sprint. In general artificially create a sense of urgency is a major turnoff for me, especially if it happens I hate feeling, you know, being part of a rapid transaction it, I'd love to be considered not for a one night stand. - I'm personally have a high conviction, but low-frequency investor. I would, I would much rather miss something, but then take the time to get and a market really, really well. I think it will make me a much for you in the long run as a founder, because it means I really what I'm getting into. And they talk about trades that transactions. And, those words just don't, you know, they, they just don't appeal to me. When someone comes along you know, X days to decide, I tend to walk away. - I guess not they don't like it much. This is also very much about timing, having some sense of urgency investment is fine, but it shouldn't be a part Number five you need to sign an NDA. Let's keep this simple investors, And they have really good really that genius that - So I have written an entire blog post, which is actually the most read why we don't sign NDAs. So, you know, this is a sort of pet peeve of mine. It just doesn't work having, you know, what you think is a there will be a whole bunch same idea. I sort of guarantee it, especially in our market and now, where so many of the smartest involved in what we're what this market's doing. And secondly, really the winners are almost who go the distance and he put right team and do all of those things. So, so I think the idea that, you know, this idea that you have that is the difference is a pretty naive starting point. It's a waste of time. You know, I think it of you raising a great - To me, it goes to couple points. First is trust. I think that the moment you NDA from the get go that And that might be problematic working relationships and I think if you really think your idea and replicate that that probably may be the Maybe you are not the best kind of application. And if it's true, so maybe I should not be startup in the first place. Number four - the product can sell itself. We don't need the sales team. - You know, if you have a super product grounds up, I mean, that's great, right? PLG is, is where it's at. You got to have that, but it doesn't stop there. And, and there's no way that you big deals specifically, if it's like an enterprise application, if you don't have a sales team in place, the thing will not grow It just won't. And I recently had this amazing the CEO and they've been sort 2017. And I said to him, I said, okay, cool. What, so what's should I do now? And he told me, and I said, really? I said, that's, that's amazing. I said, if you had started it with you'd probably have about right now. And he goes, that's crazy this is how I said, you have about 5,000 customers out of like, you know, the top companies in the world like $80,000. I said, can you imagine how much gold sales team to go and talk to advocates inside the, those companies to grow your install base? Because PLG just doesn't big contracts. They just don't and he'll get there, but it's going to take 10 years. - I think the, the idea that a company is one of the symptoms of centric world that we currently And I say that as a computer engineer, right? So I love the fact that that finally. But on the flip side, I think there's such a mythos you know, the technology and everything else. You know, sales and marketing in particular is, is dumb and stupid and and wishy-washy and all the if as a founder, you think this, what I would do is just say, look, think about the company that there presumably are some, and you will find that They may not talk about it very much. They may talk more about their tech. They may put their then not so much the sales they all have sales people too. And those people are - Yes, you will need a sales team. Even if you have product potential, you will need a sales team. Number three we just need your money This is about Just build something. You need a plan B you can investor. Investors love founders The opposite is a total turn off. - Yeah. I think being an resourceful. And if, you are basically saying, I cannot do anything without your money. You're not being very resourceful. Of course you can do it You can do it better with my money. I get that. But if you were saying, oh, it's just impossible for get out of bed without, you know, you writing me a check then. I mean, that really questions to me, how, how desperate you are to do this thing. That's a, that's a pretty big turn off immediately. if someone said that in there, in that early conversation with me. - Two guys from Switzerland contacted me via LinkedIn and asked me for advice. And I said, yeah, why not? I mean, come on. They seemed okay. They're mathematicians. You know, I'll spend 10 minutes with them. I spent an hour with them. I said, where are you? And they go Mexico. I go, why are you in Mexico well know, cause they got that band. But if we come to Mexico, we think we can fly in and we can get in that way. And they did. And then they went to San San Francisco for three weeks and, and they raised 800 K. And I know this because I knew all angels, all like, you or five or six people, including myself after I heard about this. And I'm like, how did you guys do this? And they go, well, we would just go We knew where people would be and we started talking to introduced to these people. And so there were a couple kind of big, big startups. You know, they're like, but they're really close to unicorn. Maybe one of them is a unicorn And I know this guy, so I called him. I said, why do you invest? And they go because they're with nothing and they, and they snuck into the United and they're, they're, they're showing us their tech And their idea's great. But look at them. I mean, wouldn't you invest That's amazing, right? The resourcefulness that these early twenties showed going. It's amazing. - The point is, there's always something you technical. So you may not but you can pull together some put together a video we'd go talk to customers And I think it's, again, it the best founders do something whatever that is. And I think that it's not about achieved. It's about the fact that you something, whatever that was. And the fact that you're about that and measuring the feedback. And that's you being used by your product and your company. If you're not willing to do those things, I would sort of question whether to be a, to be a founder - We are getting to the top. Number two we have no competition. When I found that there is no competition. It's usually one of two things and none of them are very good. First, no competition very If nobody else finds maybe there is no there is competition and the either way. It's not good. Any market will either have Otherwise it's pretty - I think when someone says I'm always slightly nervous founders to be fearless and ambitious, but you also want them to paranoia, right? I mean the paranoid And if someone says I have no competition, it always makes me think, are you really thinking in a You know, if there really there will be in the future, right? If what you're doing is So it will be, it's always good to find corners and you know, a very flippant there's no you're not that kind of person. - Yes. This is it. We're at the top. Number one anything that isn't true. Yes. We will pitch hard and we will but we can never say It will be found and and you can never lose your trust with your investors. - I think I want founders creating is unique, solves a You know, it might not have, but they know this is going visions of where it could But when you go to the market we do that now. And you You know, I, I can't go into it. Still figure out which And then all of a sudden you're like. - Is it about blood testing?. - No, no, but I use that that's obviously so well documentaries, but I use that example. I go, it feels like this because something that simply doesn't decisions based upon those exist when it simply doesn't. And I was so shocked. Yeah. But it's going to do this in Let's say that. Let's not say it. Does it today. - I think it's all good said earlier that the trust is really important between a And I think that's what So of course, Silicon valley you know, involves to some extent setting really are. And, and, you right. And we call it aspiration. And that's a good thing. But I think we all know when that, when that goes beyond an something, which if it were you know, undermine the confidence And I really think in a while, it's a bit like, whatever it about pornography. Right. I can't exactly define it, And it's, it's, it's, I think that people do know And what you're doing, if you go too far is you're and your investor. And that's a really fragile, but really important thing. Because today you might think trust in order to get their dollar. But later there'll be some of trust you anymore And that will come and bite I really think it's important seriously. - What's Suranga just said Don't lose the trust. It's And you will need your So don't lose the trust. Finally, I want to hear Put it in the comments. What have you said? What have you heard that If you want more content, just like this, please consider pressing So you won't miss any future videos. Thank you very much for now stop watching and go build something. (music playing in the background)