To the south of the central massif, in Aveyron, On board this autogyro, Gael Glandieres, to identify the heritage of his region. So Gael at the cape we are good, Larzac is one of the high Everywhere, fortified villages bear witness to It has been the stronghold of Gael and his "So we fly over the village it is one of the 5 Templar and Hospitaller cities, It is here that the soldier-monks established "We can see very clearly the quadrilateral there, to the afterwards the village was surrounded by ramparts in the best preserved commanderies in France... >> initiatives are multiplying to ...like here at La Couvertoirade... its ramparts and its rampart intact. and its jewel, a 15th century tower... it is "With these 5 Templar cities, we best preserved architectural ensemble in Europe, the best safeguarded. >> Templier et Hospitalier we can head towards there..." collect the rain and water the herds. is preserved by the Hospital Conservatory of which Gael is a volunteer. detect them in the sky, on earth and This one is superb... we'll be able to little... In terms of height, it's &quot;It's perfect...&quot; these plots of land where the soil "These sinkholes which were cultivated and which today retain all of still the same, and it has been going on for 5000 years..." But he spends all his weekends in Ste Eulalie Since childhood, he has walked these alleys like in this 17th century house... top floor, a unique vestige has been preserved... exceptional places in St Eulalie, remarkably The walkway of this 15th century enclosure was built during a period of insecurity, we especially the brigandage in Larzac that pushed to be safe therefore in the villages sow terror on the plateaus. >> Sainte-Eulalie to life and relocating young artisans. the village blacksmith. Johann took over the forge seven "So here I break the edges. >> artistic cutlery and ironwork. has not moved for two centuries... it was install a blacksmith... it is also a priority to can participate in the renovation, appropriate handmade, it's of very high quality..." And here we go ! it is intended for the Commanderie, this monument, which has Gael and Johann will place it in the "We have the portrait of the last commander, Sir... this is the final situation..." monitoring the restoration work. the town hall have been mobilizing to save this heritage... these are the latest acquisitions of the depending on sales, to to bring together this , and therefore returned to private individuals. >> not someone else's, it's great! I am happy ! There was a lot would have been a few thousand, so it's great! >> by the knights of the order of the temple. monastery and an agricultural farm. to defend the tomb of Christ in Jerusalem. land donations multiplied to From Sainte-Eulalie, the soldier-monks ruled "This church was the first donation to the the Templars took possession of the church, land that accompanies this donation. >> fresco room", where an These 17th century murals A treasure saved thanks to the inhabitants of the this place. Among them, Gael's grandfather. today we feel like its heirs. It is parents and grandparents did 40 years ago. >> It's village square Gael joins Julien Viala, his cousin. 7 years ago, Julien took over the &quot; good then ? You succeeded there for the animation...yes, the weather is a little mild. >> attached like the elders, to their roots. really very attached to Sainte-Eulalie and every Montpellier, as soon as they can come back to a bit of magic at Sainte Eulalie! >> our grandparents in the 50s for them it was heartbreaking, they left to because that here there was no longer any work, but with their village, which meant that they A few days later, Gael gathered a hiking trail around the village. sinkhole to restore it to its initial shape. Under the bushes, For millennia, shepherds "We are almost at the cazelle..." used until the 1950s... preserved... so here is the cazelle! n't put too many people there, a place... so a which allowed the shepherd to protect himself from the and we can sit on it... and wait out the storm. were a bit outdated for the farmers past, it was confusing, it was has- realize that people are attached to it and we small elements of built heritage which have been Laurence Fric works for the to the inhabitants of Sainte-Eulalie. over all these years and at the same time I a lot of time, a lot of effort, a lot of >> kilometers away, another jewel of the Built on a rock, this small city At the foot of its ramparts, the At the time of the Crusades, the knights the organization of the territory. they created villages like La Couvertoirade all around Sainte-Eulalie Every Sunday, for 14th century bread oven comes back to life thanks to volunteers. , makes bread the old-fashioned way... with natural leaven... Like 40 years ago! >> Henri Ucheda, the former potter of La Couvertoirade, restored the typical vaults of Larzac Templar. the spirit of this village, which it's not just a monument. >> but she is a loyal fan of the place. hell of a day....ah yes.... Country bread "It's a place that I like, also in winter, cold, Henri is often there... he warms his The main concern of the Templars conserve water, which was so rare on the plateau. builders to collect this rare commodity... was collected by a system of channels which from the roofs was also recovered, by a by observing these corbels, and on each either in stone or wood, which allowed Above the bread oven, Laurence guides us you have to climb on this rock leaning against the At the bottom of this well, there is drinking water travelers thanks to an original system. water', so after drawing the water back through this sink and the water was transmitted It is believed that this system was designed for Above all, it protected oneself from diseases such as the risking contaminating the interior of the village. >> centuries, the Templars had become too At the beginning of the 14th century, Philip the Fair had The hospital staff take over treat pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem They created another outbuilding of the where Laurence is meeting today... The stately home has been under At the top of one of the towers, Jean Vernhet and They are redoing this slate roof. which with its weight holds the then a very rigorous wedging, for example like We haven't invented anything, we can to say we continue the entirely by hand, since we Just below, on the first floor of the process of reopening a door which dates from the 14th century... see we have a very beautiful door >> of the work in progress. were walled up at the time of the Revolution. so that will be one less thing to go back up. to find these remains, it was not a foregone dismantled, removed, by demolding we that We will be able to reassemble it identically. >> and the Larzac Conservatory, the main are about to be saved. unified the villages reappear. restorations are progressing and then little by little, of all of these sites, the commandery is commandery with its members, its landscapes..." the last stone, the ridge. after a lot of effort, it looks good, here's A few days later, This morning she is taking a friend An unusual activity which has brought new life - not too quickly? - there's a little sun, it feels good, - it's great, it's beautiful... You can cycle for 12 km and cross 6 of the Causse from a new angle... - Yes, look how beautiful it is, - it's magnificent! slightly crazy idea: Jean-Paul Austruy. railway line 12 years ago. "Seeing this heritage which was on hold from in a tourist way by means of rail bikes has made it possible to save this heritage and The line was inaugurated in 1896, after eleven Larzac, it was part of a major Closed in 1954, it marked "Everything is in place, our ankles are everything is fine, no hands! >> of the viaducts. It tracks down cracks and Built more than a hundred to unique know-how... to feel the echo of the vault, and then we if we look at the alignment of the stones at performance! Everything is adjusted to the millimeter, it's quite moving to think The joints are clean, it's perfect. >> railway line: he is currently restoring this "Why not run a steam locomotive one day there we make the nest, make the envelope In the heart of summer, it is 6 a.m. Chantal Alvergnas and her companion "Come on, come on" (several times) An Chantal fights for a different type of agriculture. "In the summer they spend the whole night outside... She takes care of a herd of 230 animals. Coming from a family of breeders, Chantal "Breeder is a particular word and profession, we accompany them all their lives and then bit of a shared life with the animals, as soon it particularly affects me. Chantal decided to settle in Larzac at she arrived here in 1980 in the wake of the 1970s: the fight For 10 years, the plateau lived favor of peasants threatened with expropriation. even go as far as Paris, under the Eiffel Tower, In 1981, the left came to power hectares of land are available... a who want to settle on the plateau... in the project to extend the Larzac military camp we do not want to buy back this land heritage, but managing it collectively, that is to say together..." brings together around thirty farms. a "jasse", a long sheepfold, typical This one dates from the 16th century, it is one The others were destroyed in "We thought that these buildings were been a shame to abandon them to build enhance them, and economically it was that and I think we succeeded because we lived, herd that we had in this structure which Every year at lambing I hear my god how long have the lambs been pang in my heart to say he is still alive. >> idealists transformed Thanks to them, the traditional farms and the younger generation has taken over... He moved He also claims a "I fell into it when I was little, so I couldn't see myself anywhere else, going where but... I don't see myself anywhere else and I do "We can say after 30 years that we have the children stay, others arrive, Behind Romain's farm, another Baumes troglodyte shelter... a defensive dwelling It allowed peasants to Like Chantal's jasse, this building was . Here should have been a shooting range... narrowly spared. They brought the animals in at the bottom, and then intermediate floors, you can still see the up there so they may have had to store had to remain locked up for a long time. >> who worked here, worked the differently for sure but the idea is still men, we are always in the same vein...&quot; in the cycle of life on the causses completely disappeared from the region in 1950. has was reintroduced around thirty years ago. League for the Protection of Birds. Together, they begin a With donations from breeders in the region, carcasses in the wild, the association &quot; Let's go ! >> is devoured by a hundred birds of prey. "have you seen the effectiveness? In the This is the opportunity for Philippe to study "We take advantage of this mass grave, the speed of rings therefore identify birds... Right Spanish bird. You have to imagine that in Spain for a in Catalonia they can be there in the day, Philippe now goes with a river which flows into the Tarn. It is in this dizzying canyon that In summer, Philippe is responsible He watches over the young still in the "Here we have a young vulture of the year, he is trying to trigger the the culmination of the breeding season matings, and seeing these young vultures Vultures are always magnificent to quite close and you can hear the it's always quite magical moments. >> success: 370 pairs nest in these cliffs. agropastoral landscape is not fixed. This fully involved in people and landscapes, For millennia, erosion fractured and cracked by rainwater. A phenomenon which has carved Come on, we're off into the abyss of hell... really feel the freshness hydrogeologist, an unusual site: created there Several during the formation of the Pyrenees. ". There are several, 3 main ones, they are quite wide, we can still pass, which characteristic of ruiniform reliefs... it feels cramped, it "you are 20 meters high there" which has developed well... the vegetation manages A few kilometers further, Here is the legendary Rajal del Gorp. millions of years ago. - We are going to discover the rajal, there are - You see it looks like a little camel... These natural sculptures are the result Did you see there? For a long time, these strange stone statues "There are tales from the territory which trace would have had bad encounters and in particular who would have petrified them, so we have it can be quite ghostly. >> In the heart of summer, it's the village festival. Made up and costumed, Gael joined his 15th century Aveyron ritual, which is now only "These are traditional dances it was done with clogs, so it now that we no longer have clogs, we clap your The bride and groom of the year are at the center of the party. the wedding night, the dancers The party continues late "It's clear that we are in a village which we have relied generation after enhance it and it is a source of development. couples are coming to settle in the for 10 years has been increasing its numbers and its Far from Larzac, other enthusiasts In Lorraine, north of Verdun is the has preserved intact the magnificent residences Its Italian-inspired facades bear witness renowned for its trade fair. owners have been renovating these homes. Philippe Louste was born in Marville. He In 18 years of work, he has like here, in the family kitchen... total volume of the room, which allowed us to do crouching which shows us the anatomy of a the architect of the time had a lot of humor always find this kind of grotesque foot and that is Behind the kitchen cupboard, he discovers And in one of the rooms of the But it was in the living room that he "We got there and found this it offered itself to us and it was moved us the most. >> the only one to restore his house. At the end of the main street, the Aigremont hotel, Everyone has their own little bucket! watered... Hadelin you can go there... year-round, with her husband and children, who "At the beginning, we just heated ourselves with wood, The winters were very harsh, because our so we had to take almost cold baths, with pleasant... But it's okay, it's okay.." Hadelin is not discouraged... will be completely renovated and we but I think it will be a long time coming, Sophie, Sophie! the construction sites are real places of exchange... - Yes, I'll bring you a door, I'm missing doors but hey I have no choice... happiness of this stone To bring together all the energies, Philippe and for lovers of Marville heritage. share your discoveries. and this is proof that it is a building from before it's perfect insulation. >> you arrived it was open, it's pretty there are even swallows' nests. >> like in this room still covered with its "Most houses have their here it was again, not everywhere, but there was everything, so that's fantastic. >> it's things that we've never seen elsewhere, that tell us about the era that we learns Built in 1550, the Hotel d'Aigremont has kept traces of its with its old loggia opening onto the courtyard. the family's next project. an excuse to make a bathroom... to last several years. they say but it's not moving forward, but hey, with the children, with we encourage ourselves , it's perfect. And think! There are not 36 solutions. >> the association created by Philippe meet The last owner gave them The cleaning is done with the tools that we have brought, that is to cleaning with all the brooms etc. above all a moment of conviviality. in the washing with enthusiasm. it will go into the hole so it will leave I think it's a story of patience. important. the wash house like a market, like the community life. It's more important than a wash house belongs to everyone. was particularly modern for its time: separate bin, thanks to a clever system of channels... A a washing campaign in the 19th century. Architects compete in ingenuity and meet takeoff... take photos of his little city seen from the sky. on the riches of Marville. This is the village of Marville, which would be can take a few photos... Chevalier, another heritage enthusiast. There I take the photo The plane is now heading towards the We can see the citadel on the right... Look at how beautiful it is masterpiece of the military architecture of the 16th century has proportions which mean that we Jean has been fighting for several years to first time he has been able to admire it from this angle. ground...We know that we live in a beautiful region for Philippe, we are now convinced For around twenty years, the First project undertaken by the town hall: clearing Every year, Roland Tuetey and his three kilometers of ramparts by hand. can go to work in the wall, the work inside, every year we remove trees, the ivies so that they do what ruins the wall. ... watch out for the rope. >> in work at great heights... its original appearance. In 93 we did not see it, we did not know that there high on an eminence... we did not see correctly, was covered in ivy. The ivy so obviously we can no longer see anything. in the maintenance of a monument which is vast, it is We know that we have something to do with it even if Like all "border zones", Montmedy It became French in the 17th century, Louis XIV, in person, came to witness Spanish armies. Montmedy is one of the rare citadels to house With its small square and its church, ... who do not hesitate to mobilize And there is no shortage of ideas! torchlight tour of the underground passages of the stronghold. a special atmosphere, it's really a events throughout the year... What I suggest you do is to do a the powder magazines... there we go! neighbors from surrounding villages, curious Underground passages which were partly created new weapons of war: shells. here you have the remains of the freight elevator which into the powder magazines... that dates from 1870." the citadel is out of oblivion, and it Next project to complete: Its organ, which dates from the 18th century, is This morning, Jean takes the road After 4 hours of travel, arrival He has a meeting at the Armand, the company manager. will discover the case already reassembled.. The last time Jean saw the organ, this 8 meter high giant "It left Montmedy, I full of filth, and I can't believe it! remained empty of its instrument, it had been reused, so for almost a century, there was gutted, very dirty, and then to see him like that Every small part is manufactured on site. of all shapes and materials... , it is true that in the 18th century, that man has ever created, which acoustics, cabinetmaking, therefore one Here is the room where we Patrick takes the opportunity to show art profession born in the 15th century. The is the manufacturing of the organ pipes. of the few to have its own foundry. to operate an installation of this type! for the Montmedy organ? different lengths and thicknesses. metal plates are polished one by one, Each step is entirely carried out by hand. To build an organ, it The Montmedy organ will be finished in and all the inhabitants of the citadel Return to Meuse. another facet of the region's heritage, jewel of the Lorraine Natural Park. Created by monks in the 13th century, it Every year in November, the inhabitants of the All the fish in the pond are transported along a channel to a pool. Nicolas Niewadonski, a resident of the region. the atmosphere, I'm from the village, I've lived here for that and then obviously for nature. perpetuating this tradition, we don't a backhoe loader and evacuate hundreds of and we wouldn't have to go looking as far. the fish... which brings together the whole village. Everyone comes to admire the performance of the fishermen... The coordination of everyone, and the fact that every year, the rhythm of life, it's wonderful... Translation: and the fact that they have been doing this for thousands it's magnificent! and then there are so many After more than two hours of effort, the to the encouragement of the crowd... The net is emptied little by little, revealing to the Among the fish brought to the surface 20.08, she is beautiful! will be sold, the others put back in the pond. are harvested each year. gigantic, it's magnificent! meeting between all generations. The first time I came here, it was impressive, I imagine everything *There are crayfish! that all the time it would be... you can see it it's really... it's impressive! with other volunteers, a party "It's a village that's a little forgotten and we've been interested in Marville since we were born, it's good to focus on Marville, and it's nice, the people, the wine growers, Once a year, the people of Marville open their This is an opportunity for visitors to discover Renaissance cellars. Right next to Philippe's, Nicolas of the most remarkable ones in the city. then rebuilt, in the 16th and 18th centuries, has only is a rich man's cellar. >> storage places for merchants of the time. the oldest are from the 13th century. to participate in the party. I always think of the work of the people who not yet been redeveloped, and who have renovated, while respecting the heritage, because time, there you go, it's a journey to the past...&quot; are there again. you, to admire the owners of Marville. that Marville is finally in his place, and I but I was talking with our friends from Montmedy, they succeed in doing, generally speaking, few days later, at the other end of We are in the middle of August. Christophe" is heading towards Porquerolles. the inhabitants with drinking water. in France to carry out this type of mission! old gentleman. There were only two like that, and this one remains. We can transport and we do that every day. later: arrival at the port of Porquerolles. during the high season, because at that time In summer, nearly 10,000 Not to mention the thousand boats Everyone comes to enjoy this little typically Provencal village. natural sanctuary, unique on the French Riviera. and its dream beaches are protected by the Port Cros National Park. who work hard every day. Peggy Coursier-Fournial teams up with Serge Their mission: to enforce regulations. speeding around the coast... national park, 5 knots in the 300 meter band - 300 meters, hop on if you "The most difficult thing here in Porquerolles people who want to fish, people who want will have to find a fair balance A sharing that is sometimes difficult to enforce entirely prohibited for motorized vehicles... tenders to the beach when they are e Peggy you have just crossed an area prohibited on your boat... You have to put the -All right ! leave the swimming area. They came back dangerous... There are children swimming. >> National Park. You are in a zone prohibited for you will put it after the buoys... Thank you! it's like that all summer! we're going to hit it time and time again to have to steamroll, every day, understand. Because it is exceptional, all of this wealth. >> has worked for the Park for 4 years. of living on the island all year round. exciting job and the road was a bit long it is not given to everyone. job In the afternoon, accompanied by another colleague. Hello, bikes aren't there, it's here it says no bikes allowed... listen to me! Not on these. If we put the bikes a sign prohibiting bikes there, that's all! people but we can't regulate the people from having fun, that's how it is. able to see all this otherwise it will be too late. it's magnificent so it must be preserved! flagship destination, the island had almost It took off in 1912, when Fournier bought it as a gift to his wife. This adventurer, who made his fortune in Mexico, vines and developed a vast agricultural estate. descendants to integrate it into the new On former cultivated land, A vast estate intended to safeguard Olive trees, peach trees, mulberry trees, fig trees, more than At the head of these collections, He traveled the south-east of France for Fruits with sometimes surprising shapes... this, see the appearance... the French people have ever seen it, but anyway bright red flesh, it is even very good! >> Jean-Paul is an ardent defender of "I have seen plowing with horses, I have seen sounds, colors, smells that have less destructive way of life, and then we will be of things that we thought were lost. >> has the privilege of picking these They are delicious... delicious! The collection has nearly Back home, Marie-Claude jams... the old-fashioned way... the flower and the peduncle. all the taste of the fig is in the skin. >> is no lemon, no You have to skim, above the jam, it is the bad part of the fruit. >> A little goat? set up a small shop in her kitchen. A Soundtrack Laurent Brilleman: very young, I know her children and known her roughly when I was my son's age because it's true that it's delicious. >> Porquerolles is also rich in Among the treasures to be safeguarded: the Some have been completely Opposite, on a tiny island, the For a year, Marc and Edith Frilet These Porquerolles lovers spent their But today, it is to work that they - This is our usual route between two stations by the Port Cros National Park to A real challenge. even if we're used to it, we never know, dead calm but there's a very slight east wind, Marc must transport all the Difficult working conditions Built in the 17th century, the made up of a large round fortified tower. garrison officers lived. Marc and Edith started by into a small habitable apartment, with the help - it blew, you can see, A place which will serve in a few years as a "This room in fact was the place where the bread oven, that's really... we did its juice. There we're going to go back... This is an old we haven't touched it, we just resurfaced it and above all look at the view that 'we have, When we were younger we came here by and when we saw the Young Guard, we Built at the western tip of Porquerolles, on the part of a vast system of fortifications. Burned by the English in 1793, by Napoleon and then abandoned again. , Edith and Marc want to reassemble No need to go far, most - These are not high that's how the fort was made , with * Please take your feet off... beautiful stone, it is all pink... brought from outside, the only ones, to they still got eaten.... Return to Porquerolles. Marc and Edith find their little paradise. They stay in an old hotel, the Miramar, 1960s with a group of friends to Even today it is the What's extraordinary is we are the second generation, so there are already 4 generations who have lived in Hi Marco! so it's a Ah there you go... the island... and all the inhabitants of the village! a coffee ice cream! are the former bakers of the island... you -And is the fort progressing? -Yes, it would be a pleasure for me to Edith is particularly attached to the beauty of Built in the 16th century, it is the first fort Fort Saint Agathe is one of the view is breathtaking over the Hyeres harbor. as soon as you arrive you see it, it it is a very strong, very powerful place. >> built to defend the Provencal coasts. islands, but to protect the continent, the all, we wanted to prevent of Hyeres under the shelter of the Gien peninsula an attack against the city of Toulon. terms of landscapes, biodiversity and One month later, the Park agents are taking advantage of the lull Every year for several days, they of a killer algae: "caulerpe taxifolia". merciless fight for 20 years. ten volunteers from the continent. in the middle of the line, he will be in charge... This marine plague has colonized the an ultra-rapid method of propagation. pick it up with an anchor in the posidonia or to pick up or cut off a piece of it so that it can * Go for the first one... a line several meters long underwater. the main victim of the killer algae. Mediterranean", this underwater meadow After ten minutes of diving a Of tropical origin, this To eradicate it, Serge cuts out a plot Thanks to these uprooting operations clear decline around Porquerolles. put a piece of it back in the sea and it leaves again, completely... Mission accomplished, Porquerolles is not the only paradise This morning, Marc and Edith are On the journey, they follow where another side of the island is revealed. A rare viewpoint, To the south-east, Cap des Medes, - We see the other side of the fort... It's magnificent rocks that emerge from the sea... places in Brittany which are also very the contrast of Porquerolles, on one side it is of the raw rocks and it still rises to 140 An hour later, arrival at Port Even wilder than Porquerolles, port is the only populated area, with around Nestled in a green setting, here is the Manor... it was converted into a guesthouse in the 1930s. its authentic charm intact. of the Manor; it was his great-aunt who Today, it is still a highly "Here we quite easily find a combination of first of all nature is stronger than man, you either have the highway which passes behind, and then people feel at home, that's It was in the interwar period that Port writers, such as Jean Paulhan, Other lovers of the island: the poet At that time, you had to take But before becoming a paradise, the island which even housed a polluting factory. the head of the National Park on the island. soda factory, built in 1817. it produced a lot of raw materials you have the last traces of the wall... To function, all the materials used as fuel, and water, transported There we are below the aqueduct which allowed it allows you to pass the thalweg... the two slopes So to avoid going to the bottom of the valley and The factory operated for 30 years Protected as a National Park since 1963, Everywhere, trees and scrubland have regained their rightful place. most wooded of the Hyeres islands. total preservation of a landscape. We are considered naturally, and people recharge their batteries. regenerate in the forest and that is the case here. Port-Cros has always fascinated me, we discover what we see here is a pearl, little Port-Cros diamond, it's extraordinary ! >> People come from all over the world to observe an Direction La Gabiniere, this small This is the most beautiful spot in the reserve. he will guide a group of visitors A descent without a tank, with Among other things, divers are asked to be not to stand on the rocks so not to 'damage... We're here to so we're going to stay lying down. Another important thing We're going to move on to the equipment, come on, let's equip ourselves! for diving, there are different buoys that anchor, so it helps protect the seabed. >> are diving for the first time. right? Thank you very much... * This one looks mean, I'm * She's good! deep to get your eyes full... like the grouper, threatened with extinction Among the wonders that we can admire: these colorful "sea slugs". of barracudas in the middle of an aquatic ballet... * It's magnificent, we can't imagine everything Much further offshore, the depths of In these deep waters live Frederic Larrey and Thomas Roger are They obtained exceptional authorization to preparing on Mediterranean marine animals. they finally find what they are looking for... - Go take action! The two photographers try to but barely has it caught its breath So we have to watch again move a little further, to the right she heard us, she again... move forward one more time... little... it stays very little on the surface, so we try possible, put ourselves in front of its trajectory try to provoke the meeting... we know that she is For the first time, Frederic and Thomas will extremely rare encounter... there it's magical, it's the first time we've it didn't deviate so we really had in front of us... it was exceptional! >> makes them a little mysterious, a little our photographic project, which is to break the knowledge of these second Since the start of their project, Thomas forty different marine animals. to the defense of these endangered species and to