Welcome, everyone. Thank you for joining us fellows showcase. My name is Tatyana Bryant history and African American Studies at UC a generous donation to UC Irvine School of Deanna Shimek and Yan Chen. The goal of this want to conduct humanities research that integrates inaugural fellows creative projects ranging Twitter bots, I will let each fellow introduce depth. And after our final presentation, we'll questions in the chat for each Fellow at any first. D whenever you're ready. 01:08 see that? Okay. Yes, okay. Hello, UCI staff, Richards and I'm presenting today on my cooperative Twitter bot. My project partner is also in questions during the meetings Q&amp;A section. at UCI and humanities Honors Scholar. I'm writing. My partner and I were born and raised into the UC system. My experience as a transfer as a writer of seeing the quality education level and the UC system. Since I'm the first level of education, I obviously like to push outside of expectation is what informed my storytelling and technology, which I believe partner is called rootstock in San Diego will switching to a fully remote position and moving programmer since he was eight years old and student in computer science. In his career has participated in the creation and development including the Sims 4. His main development internal tools. He's excited to stay on the and created his first fully automated T witter The Mark of the Minotaur is the first step storytelling. While our current modeling is develop data groups for future of AI data conceived as a wild idea about two years ago, similarities between writing novels and writing possible with AI technology in the realm of to produce their own AI written works. We through trial and error as sort of maze. We format as amazed as well, that the computer but eventually build the maze as it solves revisit the most famous tale remains in recorded you are not familiar with this ancient Greek The Myth of Theseus and the Minotaur was first over centuries to become a staple in popular and according to this tale, the Minotaur was and Aphrodite inflict upon Nino's king of as divine sacrifice to gain his favor. However, punishment, Poseidon compels Aphrodite to lust for the animal once the lust dissatisfied with a human hybrid, whom she names a stereotype, or Gnosis book. Once the creature is born, human flesh. Muna says a Great Labyrinth created keep it out of the public eye. bludgeoned a pact is reached to sin 14 Noble male and the sacrificial victims of the Minotaur. The the great hero of Theseus, son of the king While stories differ about how often the tributes of 14 Athenian years happened twice before least 28 may be more Athenians destroyed by The work produced in this project follows currently running is about a youth named Naseous, historical texts, as well as artworks, modern to construct a sensible original storyline work is considered mythic fiction, which takes and creates an entirely new work from those of a respective Gen as he becomes sacrificial apples and follows his journey to Crete where The total work can take anywhere from 30 to a storyline. And the duration of the story Using three distinct motivation trees that of unique story pathways available in our one of eight different ways and there's weighted Using twine, I was able to construct a concurrent story flow dictates. We'll create a data parsing tool to extract from twine to use in his development environment. Together, we have created a tool that we call the story back to the storyline determined Here's an example of some of the twine pathways and diverging motivations in the comprehensive The data which I entered onto wine isn't extracted The data Shepherd is all latent function, story progression, much as a writer would For my demonstration of the project, I invite feel free to access Twitter via your web browser you do not have a Twitter account, simply to view the project without signing it. There and another one will post automatically at by reading the first three posts of the project. a lot of repetition of names or scenarios, each post shall be independent, it must function connecting to the progressing story. And now of the minutes on the net. Some of the general another battle. His father was furious when Archie circuses. Monesi is to serve as a test two years below to confirm this thesis duty betrayal and deceit. Accused of power despite service endogenous 20 a year. He fought fearlessly Athens turned against Athens was divided against he could win. Friends and neighbors sneered never given to cowardice either and proven. This story will continue to live for at least pathway Spock selects. At the inclusion of story to display the various options, or utilize with a different character. Eventually, it AI. So that the story is will continue without please feel free to add at the minute to remark Thank you, D. We'll have time for questions at the end. Hello, good afternoon UCI faculty and students. I'm a major in English and psychology. My and the social media age. And so I use a lot of look at this emerging and evolving concept especially close to me as a member of the enjoy the stories that people tell but I also with stories and interact with opportunities the black community has been rife with a lot whether it be the national allowance of a events have created generative conversation at how social media played a role in propagating So I'm gonna mute video so I can get a little I'm focusing on W.E.B. Dubois is ideal double wasn't an affliction that split the black also argued that the black existence is separated and the black world. So there were clear and crossing between these meet these liminal that forms a double experience or this confused And I also believe that the black mine is in many different facets, especially now with So I wanted to kind of look further into Dubois' I feel that is one that ignores the current different roles in society, whether they be and this affects how they interact with the create different views, alternative views to argue that the veil is not as fixed as a black person is a politician, and they have way that they view the world and they view veil moves a lot. And Twitter has allowed veil to interact with one another. And so Python as Twitter scrape, and I went to use which is good for looking at small chunks language such as sarcasm, shorthand, text, tools and functions that are used in this scraping, is the process of aggregating a using it to either look at trends, look at people. And basically what Twitter scraping of metrics, like keywords or a hashtag, and a list of, of items for you and then you can that. I also use Python as my coding background. so, personally, I'm new to coding, I have with C sharp, but learning Python was something to have that new learning curve. And something in a different sense. And I also use Jupyter code just in case you need to change it, which which is basically web Automator. Twitter And so in order to grab my data, for me to allowed me to infinitely scroll the platform. in my case, I use Microsoft Edge to automate before, this is AI slash Metis. Facebook slash and applies a sentiment score of zero to one. negative and neutral reactions, which we'll initial code for the Twitter scraper. If you where I'm allowed to put in certain, certain and other metrics. And they until and since dates I want it to look at. I don't really And this code is my Roberto sentiment analysis. this digital library of words and sentence like sarcasm, or shorthand and kind of parses easy for humans to do if we were to look at say, all right, well, maybe I understand what looking at things from a digital standpoint, it's easier to have an AI system be able to hand and ascribing your own sentiment analysis. positive most of the time, I think they're helpful in me quickly parsing my data. So my method during this project was three I chose three dates to look at. I chose the of Derek Chauvin and I chose the national three different dates to look at and to see And if this information was inflicted, was I also chose my users, the users I chose, activist for the black community. But I also of an entertainment background. And I felt complement and help magnify this short of on social media. Then, so I chose my keywords, and things like that. And I chose my limitations, and then quantify them from there. The second was compiling and proofreading my code. As Python. And halfway through my project, some to learn how to write that again, which was, very fun to kind of go back and understand to learn. And then the final method is the AI parsing data that allows me to describe So, I just want to go over some advantages So some of the strengths are we can quickly that has personal value to the community. death of George Floyd or the announcement I can we researchers can grab a large amount of and see how these these events have impacted Some of the weaknesses of this type of research opinion based short chunks of information the right tools. Roberto software, because it was it allowed based tweets and create these better understandings And some of the opportunities that this type research to understand these implications of predictive understanding to how certain Some of the threats to this cyber research online databases. It can be here one day, important to kind of look at these events this information. So here's an example of some of my data that tweet, the user and the date, the subject from DeRay, during George for his death, and all this violence of the police, we didn't is most overwhelmingly negative, we see it and neutral and positive are kind of, they And then if we look at Jimmy little Mo, on different, very, very different understanding imagine videos of dog killings going viral, But as we can see, both of these tweets took both have this negative sentiment. And it uses a different verbiage, it doesn't mean point or the same condemnation. But we also at or tweets three, and four, certain events of the situation, directly after the conviction our demands for transformational change, we holistic, and as actually healing. And we this. Whereas on the other hand, you know, of now let's close this out like the last a party. has an overwhelmingly positive sentiment. can create these splintered understandings. that since man on Black Twitter around these as one would assume these events are harmful community wants to condemn the black community understands that this is negative and no longer in the black community generate differing and DeRay, during the conviction, they can we would assume has this stark understanding. sentiment may hold many similarities. So it's creator embodies what words they use, but in a way that's similar to other content creators. determine how Twitter horses engage with subjects chooses how you engage a certain subject and be. So my future research I do have plans 65% completion, and the future, I would like Due to my limitations with Python and time code that allowed me to look at these expensive likes, comments, repost, and also sentiment I believe that this will allow me a larger are made during these events. I would also based on location weather. Understanding is Coast or in the cities where these were the of the situation a little bit different. Also, looking at the analysis of comments is how these comments because Twitter is inundated I would love to be able to notice these bots from true users. And one final thing I would is this phenomenon exclusive to Twitter, I Instagram, and see if this sort of fractured forms of social media. And these are all my much it. Thank you. Thank you, Jonathan. We will move to ReHana Thank you everyone, for being here today and have been up to this past summer. So I really busy busy schedules to hear what what we're my my work from the past summer in the past it. Alright, just before I start, I just want name is Rihanna. Marita, I use she her pronouns. majoring in Liberal Media Studies and Asian I get involved on campus is I am the chief One called her campus and one is a student And I'm also an organizer through the Dream art collective which is a creative space for fun fact, I am a lover of science fiction, So this past summer, I began production for is a podcast about undocumented students at amplify the experiences and the contributions UCI whether it's in STEM or in the arts, business, immigrant rights movement thrives on campus And the vision the long term vision of this for other undocumented students, future students, staff, faculty, or just anyone in the Orange can better support undocumented students and the pandemic. So I want to share what interested I've in academia, I've faced a lot of challenges low income, I'm financially independent person, So at UCI, I've met amazing, amazing people one beautiful experience I've got out of UCI share like lived experiences that I went through, we've gone through in our life, but also really And one space that I really love and I'm so on for those who don't know what the Dream like the Latin X Resource Center, that is resources that the Dream Center provides for or I really love their dream project fellowship. and even just like on a personal level. And this project that didn't happen on campus DC in the Washington UC DC program. I'm and during the spring quarter, I got to Museum where I was a consultant and also a research assistant initiative, which is a recent oral history project about And through that experience, I got to learn it when we're centering restorative justice and highlighting the experiences of people it's really important where when we're telling their that experience, and also also in the summer I really became interested in how I can, In also a research assistant for their undocumented a recent oral history project about undocumented that experience, I got to learn about ethical we're centering restorative justice and highlighting oppressed in our society, it's really important not extractive. And yeah, with that experience, interested in how I can, how I am the best And I also want to help other undocumented You might be wondering, you know, why a podcast as a film student, I really wanted to experiment can be enjoyable for others, because some or in other mediums, so I thought this would storytelling by undocumented people. to the pandemic, and how collaborations have podcasting, the really cool thing about it a different state or even across the country. us from telling our experiences and stories. with other people. So me as an undocumented student in higher education immigrants in this country do not have the this, this knowledge and resource to be accessible And everyone is also a different learner. in reading about undocumented people's experiences. directly from the people who are impacted So far, in the fellowship, and just working things about about storytelling, and how I overall. So one, the major thing is political systems in the United States and how advocating and driven global movement. So immigrant rights of the world. And it has become really important current systems look like, what kind of laws and state level, and how I can be a better also leads into research and surprising enough, and there's barely any resources available undocumented student organizing or activism And I thought that that was like kind of a me to work with Tatiana, and Thuy Vo Dang, local nonprofit organizations that work in just connecting with activists and people their stories are so valuable, and has helped out of this project. And two really important you know, the technical side of things, you editing, and creating, you know, marketing excited to hear about the stories of undocumented this collaborating and journalistic role, me to approach it with empathy and awareness people is a very vulnerable act. And a lot and just mentally exhausting, and it takes really like great training in a way to not is the work that I want to do, has to be like community So, I wanted to share a little bit of my experience want to play just a small clip of the first Young undocumented immigrants and students state of begging people to basically give and making that available for those who don't asking student counselors, or academic counselors. more about how they can better support undocumented don't even know what that means. So a lot like do not ask for the support that they tired of asking, or what the bare minimum Okay, that was a small clip of the first episode. of other undocumented students at UCI. So But there will be so many other folks who in other forms of let's say, like, you know, of really cool entrepreneurs that I, that So I hope that, that, you know, that gets what the experiences are, like on for undocumented in however you can, in your capacity. All is ending, which I'm really sad about, I'm project that I want to continue in the upcoming continue really building the podcast and its students, especially the ones who are just also doing a project with the undergraduate of written work by undocumented youth and through writing and poetry. And in the winter, I hope to expand the podcast that the UCLA labor Center and the UCLA dreams cool storytellers there as well. So I would and learn about how they're supporting their rights movement looks like there. And then hosts their dream project fellowship conference, in the fellowship, present their work and whether it's research, a creative project, for students throughout campus, not just undocumented do a live podcast recording with with a student undocumented students to pursue storytelling, in other mediums. And in post graduation after working on this project and as a graduate want to, you know, kind of stop with, with Special Collections archive, which is the resource for somebody who is doing research So thank you, that is the end of my presentation about If you have any questions, feel free to email youth or anyone who's really supporting the a great person that I'd love to know. And week. So please stay tuned. All the updates, to be through my Instagram of the podcast called direct message me there. So thank you so Thank you, Rehanam. So now, we're gonna go ahead and move on to Ruth, Um, just give me one second. I saw in the a share audio Jim. My name is Ruth. Let me Ruth Pillai. And today, I'm going to be talking activism at UCI. And the subtitle of it is So in doing in, I guess I'll explain it later. Sorry, I'm trying. I'm a little nervous. Okay. So why for why I started to do this project was because She's a mentor of mine, and a past professor that She invited me over to her home, and we had all the student activism and work that had cultures, resources, and research. And, and getting the FM department to be a department in things like that, and we were just kind period. And she shot an idea towards me saying as maybe a project for oh, shoot, as a project maybe gathering different students from the a part of that time. And they would all have all in that time period together. And as you opportunity for this fellowship came about, I decided to just kind of make this as a jumping that we learned in the workshops and stuff great for me to learn. Of course, there is to know. But in regards to me looking for there was nothing. There was nothing. There black students did, I UCI. And it was interesting, there during that time, who was involved during demands team and the protests and everything honestly, I thought somebody was, I don't But it wasn't anywhere. So in me doing this the fly, to be honest. And I was just reaching that time, in order for us to be able to do project basically was to document that missing credit is due to students who are a part of on campus that the university benefits from today and that all students benefit from because that black people do, everyone benefits from whether it's from the courage they gained Everyone benefits from the work and the strength and and that's basically what was developed in that were specifically a part of the demands we call her Kayla for short? And pronouns of the UCI BSU and was a student at UCI from hottie who went to UCI from 2014 to 2019. they were here. And Tarik was a part of BQC, of the demand seam as well as kala. And they for the implementation of institutional resources Union demand to abolish the police. And these the abolish the police demand were very radical of and these demands kind of developed based going through on campus. And those things the link for those demands as well. I'm just of things that on the record for what black that they put in the demands for the implementation Use UCI thinking it was okay to as as a way for the annual Martin Luther King Jr. symposium. a way to honor for the event. A fraternity had words and sign saying &quot;once you go black,&quot; you never go back. They have that as an award know, what's their criteria of what Black offensive that could have been. I did not I started in 2014 the same time as Tarik. But I can't imagine how gross of an interpretation people have of black people, especially when things that they think black people are. And and labeled as slave driver, little slave. a Greek fraternity that they did a suit and tie video of the song suit and tie by Justin Timberlake, featuring Z's part appeared in blackface. Which, who to have to do that, in order to rap a part reason, there was this part of these different this type of being in order to imitate black of events that took place that initiated and resources, so that there could be a place things were happening, that was outside of had support from the university that had things research, more resources than can fit in the That was all we had at the time. So I'm going recording and I'm going to start I have the timestamp in my notes. I'm going to start at 28:03. And That's BS, you can hear it in regards to that. But I for sure, just remember us talking about our meetings. Yeah. But what I definitely video because that's where we when Ria and and I literally can see the moment. It all BSU office. We were all just minding our black ass business. Absolutely. And so it's always our are right, just minding our business. I remember us all talking about it. I remember. room of us just hyping each other up validly. I meant to do was go on my page, and I just I think saying stuff basically to the point at UCI means that's what I remember repeating. the BSU facebook group page. I am unknowingly at UCI means again and again and again and moment. A whole group of us got together. say I remember us going into yikes. I don't there was a building nearby where they were remember as taking over the meeting, yeah. needed to say I can't remember exactly those in the blackface was crying and anyways, um, we wanted Do because of course, in addition 100 Other things that we know have happened small just between us and our friends that protests then. Because I remember one from many protests. They're all over the place. I don't know if they still do but for a long Okay, so that was the brief clip that I have from Kayla and going on I have a clip that I need to be able to see the top of my I apologize. Sorry about that. So this next clip I'm going to play is from Tarik Alma Haudie. And Tarik the abolish the police demands as well as for black students, and the Abbas the police I just I can't click on it because of what's thought for that demand pretty much especially demand which was the the institutional demand of students who are a part I believe of as to have they were talking about they were an oppressive flag the American flag basically a neutral space for the most part or have flags or just make it neutral and just have the police coerce them into saying Sorry, that they were in when they were with them shouldn't be saying this to the students and who was a part of that group who voted for most violence out of everybody. She received trigger warning. She she received very extreme police demand came from that. So I'm just sorry. I just want to make sure okay. Yeah, them, okay. Okay, I'm just gonna mute it for get to because they won't let me press on So Tariq is basically going to get into why such things were demanded such as abolishing, things that we think are extreme. But for This is what was felt that was needed at the say like, we need the university to hear what people to hear what you have to say you have you would ever think you need to go. So I'm it is buffering having technical difficulties and I'm trying to get to the point where same for me and I'm going to start continuing to recording right now you think the university is going to agree with that is not a demand Right it's a negotiation or a, I don't know. Something else but it's not a demand we had to think outside of the box of things that were if we could get everything and anything we wanted, what would we want? Right So and that required us to have nerve and to be audacious and to take the risks to push out and abolish the police demand right and that kind of a vision is very much in line with the traditions of black people we always ask for what we need and deserve in what must be in order for us to be able to live and thrive and you can almost say it's just like what you're saying black protest tradition is asking what you could or could never have dreamed of and that there was a time obviously, black people couldn't even dream to vote or to be dreamed to be enslaved to not be enslaved, o not be able to walk freely without showing the identification of their slave owner we had to give ourselves permission to go ham to not give a f- to say, to speak true to power absolutely and people were on board, people even that were part of BSU, UCI BSU people part of UCI they weren't on board because a lot of people were tied to the experience of being black and the experience it was reflected in us creating the previous institutional changes right but we knew that at the end of the day lets say all those demands got met, those institutional changes the university of the world will still find a way to harm us, to make us suffer to create conditions that put us beyond the margins into the outside realm right and it's even, just like what you said, saying if the demands were met, they were not and they weren't and they weren't which even goes further, it goes further to prove the point of what you're saying. And even when you even when they force the black students to negotiate, because it was forceful negotiation, because you just said we don't want to put w hat the what the university will say yes to we want a demand not a negotiation. So yeah, so that was another clip from the from the interview I did with Tarik all mahadi. And just to give context of what what is meant when it said that the demands were not fully met originally, this was a PowerPoint from back in 2017 that I have for what the original name Then and it's supposed to be called the Black Student Resource outreach and Retention Center, not the Center for black cultures, resources and research. And that had a lot to do with just trying to combat elitism trying to make a statement about, we're not free until black trans women are free And just the different demands that were in there in regards to having black counselors and to have the right amount of funding for black students to be able to do everything that we would want to do on campus, so on and so forth. We're not all fully met, a good amount was met, which took a lot of fighting. But yeah, so and I do have another interview with the current program coordinator at the Center for black cultures Niobe Duke, but I just didn't include it in this PowerPoint, because it's already pretty long. But um, I kind of just through that interview, I listed the different demands that were in that specific petition for the demands for the for implementing institutional resources for black students and asked her was this met was this met was this met, basically And all of these interviews are going to be posted, I'm pretty sure I'm going to post it on anchor, and which is a podcast site And it's I'm also planning to donate it as oral history to UCI. So just going into what my future plans are for, and I hope to continue the project by connecting with other black students who used to go to UCI black alums who are a part of the push for these organizations to show up at UCI, and who are part of the demands writing who are part of the protesting who were even just black students that watched on the sidelines who are not necessarily within the thick of it, but were definitely affected by it of course So, yes, that's the bulk of my project. Sorry for the technical difficulties. But thank you, everybody. Thank you, Ruth. So I want to take a minute now while we transition to our q&amp;a, to thank everyone from UCI libraries, who have supported our fellows this summer with mentorship and guidance from digital scholarship services. I want to thank Madeline Dickerson and Daniel Kane from instruction outreach. I want to thank Stacey Brinkman, Nicole Bui, and Nicole Arnold, and from Special Collections and Archives. I want to date I want to thank Thuy Vo Dang and Crystal Tribot. So, thank you everyone who joined us today. And of course, thank you to all of our fellows. Thank you for sharing your work. And thank you all for for joining. Thank you for your time and attention.