- What's up Evan? - Sup. - You like fashion right? - I do. - Then why do you always look so bad? (chuckles) I'm just kidding. or bad meaning good? - It's the one that you want it to be. - Bad. - Will you join me on my - Suit. - We're going New York. That's not how you get there. We gotta get on a plane. It's not that, it's actually that way. - Nope I'm going. - Time to shop til we drop. - Hi. - Oh. (laughs) New York, fashion capital - Yes sir. - Today on worth the three different suit experiences different price points is the most worth it at it's price. Worth it. - Suits never go out of style. Every man needs a suit. - And some women too. The first place we're going to you're gonna help me buy a suit. - Okay, what about me? - I mean you can have one too. - Suit up. (cool music) - My name is Nish De Gruiter, of Suit Supply USA, we shirts, all the furnishings. - So what makes a good suit a good suit? - It should be fit well, it's all about the the name boxy suit, it because the interior If you see a proper has a round shape to it, it's softer, our fabric are Zenya, Barberis, Lo Pia, different colors, show the different price is opening price point at 399, Suit Supply is a vertically integrative company. A wholesaler or retailer, we that's why we can have a much There's always something for example Havana fit works I think for your broad shoulders well. - Is that, that's for me right? - Yeah, (laughs) - [Nish] We have a tailor who does alterations while you wait. - We have a tailor in the store? - [Nish] Yes, like an open kitchen. - I like that you can walk the same day. - To determine your size, chest size 40, shirt size 15 and 3/4s. - You have a suit here ready based on those three measurements. - From size 30 to regular we have in stock, ready to go. (groovy music) - [Steven] Alright come out - This particular suit, is Havana suit, works well for your broad This is really business soft shoulder, the sleeve you show just the right amount of cuff, we have a high arm hole, Italians like to hug. - I like to hug. I like to hug Steven. - [Steven] You want to do a hug test? (laughs) - [Evan] Hug test. - [Steven] Let's do a hug test. - Hug approved. I feel dangerous, - [Steven] Dangerous? - Yeah, I feel like I might go somewhere and spend all my money. (laughs) - [Steven] You look pretty - I think you should go I would go for charcoal gray. - Charcoal gray? - Charcoal gray will be a great color for your skin complexion, - [Steven] Yes. - I will take a 36 suit, I will - So I'm 36 and you're 40. - 40 chest and 30 in the waist. - We need to advertise how much (laughs) (smooth music) Oh ho, - [Nish] This is a great than your personality. - Oh wow, this is very breathable. Even though this is more its more unique. - [Evan] Right. - [Steven] And I love that about it. - [Nish] You're still wearing a suit and it's very casual, you don't - This is amazing, it's hard to express how I feel right now. I feel like, you need to No more of your dumb hugs. This is all business. Pizza time. I think the crazy thing about that suit was how comfortable it was. - The suit jacket Nish gave me, I don't think I have to alter it. - You've never had that fit you so well. - Yeah. - Suit fact, the term people would go into tailor ask for the fabric that that's where bespoke came from. That's what fashion is though, pretty much copying people that look good. - Mm-hmm, it's like a little - Word play is more yo my name is Steven and I like to go to. - I'm Evan I come down from heaven. (laughs) - What? Suit number two, are you ready for this? - I'm actually most excited about this. We've been prepping - From an e-commerce site. We used a company called Apparently this place is legit. - I'm Evan, I come from heaven. - Let's go to 7Eleven, where (smooth music) - I'm Dan Trepanier, I'm the - Hi I'm Will Howe, I'm the - Articles of style is online a lot of guys out there frustrating experiences Meanwhile in bespoke can't we offer a service where you measure yourself. - How are you making these suits? - Everything is made from We found Southwyck, the oldest At the factory what you'll see for example in addition to a lot of other things is a digital pattern making. Printing your pattern. It's laser cutting the the garments together for assembly, so setting sleeves, they're when the garments done, they measure it to make sure it's exactly what we ordered. And if it's more than an we have to redo it. So you fill out your physical we then figure out your cut a custom try on just take pictures in the try ons, you have an opportunity to write feedback so you guys write a novel and in there. - That's gonna be this guy right here. - [Evan] I'm gonna write a novel in there. - Right, I mean you gave - [Evan] Super detailed feedback. - That's great, you know You want for example, which isn't uncommon. - Gotta be specific right? - Yeah. (laughs) - I don't even know what a leg hole is. - It's the circumference at - It's called the opening. - Gotcha. Okay. - If you're telling us for the expertise and if that makes our job easier to cut the garment to - This is the moment of truth. - Should we try 'em on? - If you guys get this right, (laughs) (smooth music) alright here we go. Oh shoot. I really don't recognize myself right now. This thing is just, This has never seen the sun. - This is a luxury fabric, it's linen and silk, you're a really slim guy have really big shoulders on your jackets and we cut a really high arm hole, so if you have a slim biceps, - I have toned biceps. (laughs) - That's slim. What's really driving is the no shoulder pads at all, so it's really a shirt shoulder. And it's really lightweight construction to your chest, so it's you can throw on, and was a cotton cashmere blend, fabric as well. - Is there a name I can, when I wear this? Steven, Steve! - Steve. - Yo Steve is out. - Hug test. (laughs) hug approved. - It's your turn. - Let's go. - You're not gonna look as good as me. - Let's go. (groovy music) Oh wow. First of all, got the shoulder width, everything fits perfectly. - You're a harder fit than Steven is, mainly because you're strong chest, but really narrow waist, you're wearing like a 31, 32 Which is a 10 inch - I work hard for it. (laughs) - So you really benefit because you already got you can't really buy a suit off the rack so a guy like you is extra blown away. - What do you think Steven? What do you think Steve? (laughs) - I mean, you look fine. (laughs) (fun music) - Yeah, hug approved. (smooth music) - Cut, cut, next place. (laughs) what is it with you and - You gotta know what you - It's true, from never having that fit that perfectly, - That's probably the most impressive part about Articles of Style. - Yeah. Suit fact. - Oh my god. Did you know men have and women have buttons on the left side. So the theory goes that men so they had to be able and most people are right handed. For women the thought is so people would help them have it backwards 'cause you know the person helping you would, - I see. - Be right handed and - But if you're a right handed woman and you're a left handed man (laughs) you're in trouble. - In battle, you're screwed. We're going to gentlemen by We started from a retail to a smaller e-commerce to one man. - So we're trimming down the - Interesting yeah. - It is interesting. - The more you spend the Hmm. (soft music) - My name's Leonard Logsdail. I'm a tailor here in New York he's been working with and he's learning the trade from me and today we're going of a handmade suit and - Amazing. It's me by the way. - It's all you man. - If you like we can do a and a bad body. (laughs) - You hear that. - From a tailoring point of and say well he's got a great it's actually quit difficult, it's about 3/4 of an inch its understanding the nuances of the body and then being able to interpret of brown paper when I - What is bespoke, what - When you get buy something off the rack it's made for everybody We do it completely the other way around. I've got 45 years of men's bodies, many clients say to me that I understand their bodies Because when you come I can tell if you've put or taken a couple of pounds off. - We make the suites ourselves on site, garments cut here, our jacket It takes about 60 or 70 hours - [Leonard] Very labor intensive. - And how did you guys - Well I think it's the I built up a business in London. I moved out here in 1991. There were probably about fabulous tailors in the United - So this suit you made right here. - I did yeah, I made all from Wolf of Wall Street. - No way. - One of the reasons from the tailors here is 1970s with a flared pair of trousers and big pockets I can do that for you. - How much is a suit that you make and then what defines the cost of that? - The skill of moving and and feeling the fabric in your fingers takes a long time and when I'm not gonna do it until a two piece suit starts at 7900 dollars. Probably the lowest quality with cashmere and then to a Vicuna suit which probably 'cause the cloth is very rare. - [Evan] They found a way to - I want a suit, maybe for my wedding? - We can do that for you. - Okay so I have not proposed to her yet, but I'm thinking about it. - Well she might hear it now so. - She will hear it. - So are you gonna get the east coast? What time of year? Are you more of a or do you want something of oomph to it? (laughs) - I hadn't even thought about that. - We need to know this because in Alaska in the winter, I can't show you some of these fabrics. - Gotcha, I like a - So this is a Super - [Steven] That's great. - And it's beautiful, feel the fabric so that means it's going now we have to decide what Do you like more of the modern and a tight pair of pants? - I would love to go with - So we'll go two buttons on the front. The pink lapel means we're gonna make them with no pleats. You use your back pockets? - I do, and I heard it's bad in your back pocket. - If you've got a lot of money in it yeah. (laughs) and then we'll start the measurements and the body figurations. 38 and a half. - 38 and a half yeah that's got some gains. - And we'll cut the suit out after that. - How long will it take, you - Depends, sometimes if the first time we could I need two, sometimes I let the suit go out the door My plan is for Ying to look and really decide that you're the one. (elegant music) - Alright man. That. Wow, dude that looks so good. I'm not used to this. This navy color looks You should start wearing so I can take you seriously. (laughs) - Dude it looks so clean, okay. And my favorite part of is like perfectly shaped for my back. I look like a body builder. - [Evan] Oh wow, yeah. I see you. - I see you. I'm used to feeling fabric I don't feel that here. Oh yeah, see that. The insides transcription, it's from my mom. I don't know how to it's so, it's so perfect. - [Leo] A perfect suit is and I look in the mirror and is when you're happy when (playful music) - Hug approved. Thank you for taking me shopping, why did just grab your bicep? (laughs) Evan Ghang, which suit at it's price for you. - Suit Supply is probably my go to place when I want to buy suits. - If you need a suit very nicely, Suit Supply, - But I have to say it's They found that middle just meets perfectly and them before and they got that's already a winner for me honestly. - I thought I was gonna I guess I'm a fancy boy 'cause I'm going with Leonard Logsdail. - [Evan] What? - He doesn't cut corners, Ha ha ha ha. It's not about the money, it's not about anything, the product correct and I - You looked really, - Alex, who was your Worth It winner? I must have looked - This guy. - That wraps it up for our Thank you guys for of you guys watching now we out. - Peace. - [Steven] Can I do one more thing? So in the first location at Suit Supply, we were told a hug test, I'm just gonna give you a hug. - [Leo] Come on in. - Hug approved