In the past two decades, China has built large in almost every country in Africa. And this has made Western China and Africa can comprehensive, strategic A common portrayal of is known as debt-trap diplomacy, a phrase made popular after being used in government documents during The so-called debt-trap lends to poorer countries, intentionally overwhelming forcing them to surrender strategic assets or concede increased political leverage. But so far, there's no has been sprung in Africa. Now there's always a like with every stereotype to it. But it breaks down very, very quickly upon any type of serious examination. The focus on debt-trap diplomacy is part of wider Western We've already seen that and Chinese infrastructure projects have been linked to within the host country ruling elite. That may end up becoming for China to push some of these to side with China on critical issues that are important to the But while the U.S. has on aid and social services, African governments themselves said, &quot;We are tired of aid and we want to be treated like partners.&quot; The Chinese came along and said, &quot;Great. &quot;we don't do aid and charity, we wanna do business with you.&quot; Global Gateway will mobilize Now the U.S. and Europe are answering back with their own infrastructure but African experts are skeptical. At the end of the day, China has been that guy around the corner To Africa, the U.S., Europe and the U.K., have time and time again said, &quot;Be careful of the flowers they have thorns on them.&quot; In Ghana the handover of power went off smoothly and with dignity. From the 1950s into the 1970s, countries on the African continent gained independence from U.S. and European-led organizations like the IMF and the World Bank, funded much needed infrastructure But that slowly stopped. The United States and from infrastructure in the 60s and 70s. It's something that we did very, very well for a long time in the postwar era, we built vast amounts of infrastructure throughout the world. And one of the things you see in Africa, is that so much of the and the infrastructure was built And back then it was quite solid. But it's been decrepit because the former colonial governments are not plowing in lots of money. Enter China. As early as the 1970s, Beijing began building the Tazara Railway, a link between the Zambian and Dar es Salaam port in Tanzania. At the time it was the longest railway in Sub-Saharan Africa, bypassing white-ruled It also gave China much Beijing said, &quot;We have we will help you out.&quot; And they embarked on this. And this is really some of the early seeds that China sowed in Africa that later came to clearly define the divide between the West and the East, as far as China's involvement In the early 2000s, as China and political influence abroad, its investment in Africa ramped up. The Chinese said, &quot;Well, guess what? We are the best in the world now at producing large scale And we have a surplus of capital, so we'll loan you the money, we have our great contracting companies. We have all of this skill to deliver fast and cheap.&quot; And in that sense, it was They recognized what Africa's And they said, &quot;You know what? 30 years ago, that was us. We recognize a lot of You don't have enough infrastructure, you have a large population Also let's not underestimate of anti-colonial struggle. So you tick all of those different boxes, and Africa made a lot of sense China is currently involved in an estimated 35 African countries, and has made significant contributions to their infrastructure, and power plants. It's estimated that China has invested more than $340 billion in Africa. So compared to how much China this may not be as much. But for Africa, it's a lot of money because of the huge infrastructure But there are noticeable differences between Chinese financing historically with low interest There must be over millions of different types of loans out there. But if you were to take of the different kinds of loans then you can broadly categorize them into three different types. The loans fall into three categories. Zero interest loans offered as aid, concession loans which often intended for large and the most common, commercial loans with higher interest rates in line with what you would get One of the very interesting when researchers discuss Chinese loans, is that there is a tendency Well, the very first question whenever you see something like that, is well, are they comparing Because if you're to something available from the World Bank or one of its different agencies, then you're not really And the fact of the matter is this, and I hope the borrowers 95%, if not 99%, the loan agreement are there in favor of the lenders, no matter who you deal with. This is because by the time and you get the money, you'll and the only thing the bank That is why the loan In one report, which analyzed it revealed that the loans are structured to give an advantage over other creditors and allows action to be taken if the borrower acts of a People's Republic of China entity. There are also unusual clauses that shroud agreements in secrecy. When you look at multilateral lenders like the World Bank and their shareholders are countries and they're required to and activities just to be transparent. They don't have any choice. On the other hand, when you then you'll see a very different case. And that is banks often are to their clients. I think the Chinese But the rush to give has meant some of their early investments weren't as profitable as projected. So when China stepped into the field, it was much welcomed that there would be increased However, with the rush to to put them into action critical due diligence was financial sustainability, social and environmental kind of never were done or were simply not transparent or available to the populations. What this has ended up causing that they initially but unfortunately, they've China is coming for its In 2021, the Entebbe came under fire after local media reported that the airport would We call this a debt-trap. After closer examination of the contract, it was found there was no debt-trap. And both sides have denied of a takeover. I think there is an assumption are not able to look after either not sophisticated enough or just simply too corrupt to look after its own interest. I think in my personal that just simply hasn't been true. Experts say more should be to make sure loans are more But the Chinese argue that in African countries and are needed for loans that might Certainly, in my 20 years of experience, I've never seen a case would just say, &quot;Look, don't read this, just sign on the dotted line.&quot; In fact, they will spend days and days and they're sitting with us, going through every line of the document and making sure the because they know in 10 years time, if they don't explain this clearly, this is going to come back and haunt them. Certainly, there are issues with how China finances projects, there are issues around transparency, but I don't think this is from Beijing in order to into debt and become In Kenya and Nigeria debts These include Kenya's $3.6 billion railway from Mombasa to Nairobi, which reportedly lost $200 million in three years of operation. And a $1.3 billion loan to fund Nigeria's largest a 157 kilometer segment The government itself these things. The private sector isn't the West has not got So therefore, China is and the terms of the loans are reasonable. At the same time, you have particularly, from the vocally criticizing the government for what they perceive to around the management They often articulate this worry that you hear in other parts of Africa, that China will try and in the event of a default But looking closer at Kenya and Nigeria's total public debt, it doesn't appear that China's in a position as leverage. In Kenya, Chinese loans of the country's $70 billion total debt. And it's even less acute in are just about 3-4%. So again, we have to focus not as these narratives which we have these fantasies that Kenya is going to be taken over by the Chinese. One country cannot control another country just by owning 4-10% of its debt. Only a handful of countries have a significant amount And most of them owe much Africa does not have a Angola weights about a third So take Angola out of the issue, then you have an even less So it's very important that to be what it is. But it only takes one bad In the Democratic Republic of Congo, a controversial method of borrowing based on future natural resource revenue, has meant some projects have Congo has a very, very It's Africa's biggest producer of copper, it's by far the world's Cobalt is a key ingredient that power electric vehicles. You hear politicians talk about Congo saying that, &quot;We are to cobalt However, up until now to government revenue and the benefits to the population at large, In 2008, China and the agreed that Chinese companies worth of infrastructure and build a $3.2 billion whose tax-free profits would China with the help of these mines has now come to dominate an industry at the heart of future technologies. And leaked documents that flowed from Chinese entities, including the multi-billion to the family and associates Joseph Kabila. If the example of Congo applies elsewhere, these companies operate with a real deliberate And if they find a willing as they did in Joseph Kabila's government, this lack of transparency can the relationship between the state and these mining companies. There is a lot of anxiety in the West over China's involvement anywhere really, because it's a strong And being a superpower and with Africa, setting up a lot in Africa, preparing to expand its trade and take it to the next 'Cause whatever happens in Africa or whatever happens in Asia, ultimately can affect the world order. There's a lot at stake. Ideology may also be on the line. Countries that receive help from the U.S. or European multilateral often require values that fall in line with democratic nations. Anti-corruption, good governance, transparency, participation, inclusion, these are things that really matter. We should want projects to the populations, that And so while it may hinder the U.S. in being able to lend I don't necessarily When countries in Africa they're expected to side with, in the condemnation of China and allegations of On these sensitive red line issues, and Taiwan is certainly one of them, this is where the political relationship becomes more evident Africa, more than almost any tends to vote as a block in major international organizations. And tends to express itself as a group, if not the whole continent. And again, this is the political symbolism that's becoming increasingly from a region like Africa, that is so important to the Chinese, much more so in many which again, aren't as important to China, simply because they can from any number of other places. But getting this kind of political support is very important in today's We want to show that a can deliver on the most While the U.S. and to try and match China's they have started work The EU's Global Gateway aims between 2020 and 2027. And Build Back Better aims to address the infrastructure needed in developing countries. Democracies are messy. Things take time in democracies. So while authoritarian are able to speed up the process, are able to get things done quicker, that doesn't mean it's And I think that's really and through the B3W initiative, can really make a difference, and building high quality infrastructure. We believe in the nations of Africa, in the continent-wide spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation. Yet skeptics of U.S. and say they're aimed at Chinese influence, rather than working with African countries And they lack specific information that have many wondering whether or not they'll result in When you talk to the that, &quot;We have come along way with Africa both culturally and economically, we have had similar problems as Africa and we want to help them grow because they were in a In Africa, the Africans will We have a huge infrastructure gap. And it doesn't matter whether as long as it can do the When we talk to some of the and the African governments, that there has been benefit for these projects overall for Africa. How they have been done, the terms as well as how is another story.