Jensen, thank you so much And I want to get started really basic, but I think ecosystem a lot more who probably didn't even semiconductor was a few Can you give me a very Nvidia is? Wow, that's an easy Well, we are a technology software. For applications are barely possible without And so because of what we barely possible, possible. Or we can make something consuming, very energy Or we could turn something and make it much more created this thing called that was what we pioneered And it's taken until now to In the early days at Denny's dream was probably simpler. Can you explain what it what the vision was, even to be this accelerated Well, at the time, if you go the PC revolution was just The microprocessor was The CPU was starting to take And there was quite a bit of future of computing and how And there was a large camp, believed that CPU or the best way to go and it long time. We felt, class of applications that acceleration. Or you couldn't make it everybody to enjoy without And so we started this accelerated computing problems. In the beginning, applications for it, chose one particular run. It was computer to video games. And that combination turned industry. And now video industry in the world and industry in the world. And it drove our technology making video games more and available to more people, And we're still in that probably early in that There are now probably, you in the world, but there are Someday everybody's going And so it's going to be the industry. And so it turned technology driver for our And we step-by-step added could do, to today, Beyond gaming and graphics, I think that there's a lot surprised to hear are Can you just give a very use cases and big name be surprised to hear are People would probably be powerful and energy the world, that are used simulations to climate science research to quantum powered by Nvidia. All the way to the other robots that are powered by lines. Self-driving cars to the Nintendo Switch that powered by Nvidia. So we're we're in very energy And probably one of the today are the systems at centers that are powering And the work that we did beginning to now that I think those are really I'm going to come back to I wanted to ask you about This is something that you the 30 years since you It was maybe seven times and faced, you know, What is the lesson here? Well, we're in a really fast You know, technology is such enormous challenges by computing, on the one On the other hand, the And there are so many great we're pursuing very similar We want to solve the And so every now and then, comes along. We were revolution. After that, the all of a sudden the them didn't make it to the And some great new companies invented during that time. And then the cloud And then the mobile cloud And now we're talking about And so each one of these unlikely that the companies are still great after it. And there are some ability to, because of agility, reinvented We had to reinvent those technology And, you know, agility is important to companies. And one of the things that company is, at the core of technology. We have You know, if you're important computing use for scientific digital biology, all the you're going to need scientists. So on the one technology rich. On the other hand, we're in giant sea of technology And so the ability for us ourselves and continue to generation to another important. And I'm very It hasn't always been Can you talk to me about that you've had to overcome Well, you know, every make a lot of them. And, you know, some of them especially in the small and were up against and we're trying to invent And, you know, when you have to convince customers You have to convince the thing to use. And you've We're a computing company, to us. And so we're trying we're barely, we barely doing, you know? So when you're doing done before, you're not doing. And yet, on the giant companies who would industry. And so early on, that we made. There were, you know, had. There were some made. And, you know, them. And, you know, one of the ability to forget the You know, just as coaches the last down, worry about And so I tried to make sure our learnings from the Most founders would be very of such a huge industry What signaled to you, and Well, our ambition was platform company. We selected computer our first market market, product technology But we always believed was going to be impactful industries. We expanded design. And today just designed or every digital almost anything that's digitally uses Nvidia And then we extended that into physical simulation. And it started with seismic called inverse physics, to molecular dynamic so forth, and fluids. And just about every field And so I'm really proud of And that led us to a much accelerated computing that Which then, one day, found us. You know, this is one of amazing about a computing You have a vision about And for whatever reason, computing approach. And maybe you made it super Maybe you made it possible with you all the time: And in our case, accelerated for you to solve problems before, or much more energy And so there's a makes a new computing And at some point, the starts to work. You know, different customers and We're in every cloud, made and then all of a sudden that wasn't possible before First you discover them, and discover you. And this starts to feed on itself. I assume you're talking AlexNet and CUDA powering bang of AI, if you will. I'm curious how much of I mean, what you're talking It sounds a bit like luck. And how much of it was Well, it wasn't foresight. The foresight was The foresight was making the same for everybody. Having the discipline of platform for generation generation, believing that would be so large that not but applications would New entire applications that would discover us. This is the nature of This was the nature of PC. This was the nature of And each one of these of technology. In the fundamental reason it was point it achieves a bit of becomes exponential because be enabled by you and they And so we made a lot of And the great decisions architecture and discipline evangelizing it to And we reached out to over the world. And we just something new would happen. The rest of it requires But the part that was realized that AlexNet is network, but it's a whole AlexNet is profound in that Not only was it a giant vision, it was also a software. Some people call machine augments the data writes the software. Instead of humans typing in creates the software. That way of using a software to be able to so profound, and we had the whole company behind it. We saw early on, about a way of doing software could All of the software that we didn't know how to And that was a great And we changed the company to the top and sideways. Every chip that we made was intelligence. We built a organization dedicated to Our entire software stack then all the things that we and networks. Which then became this thing And I remember delivering supercomputer. I hand I delivered it to OpenAI. The world's very first AI to OpenAI. What year was that? Well, I guess it's like guess. Five years ago. Yeah. And now here we are and by storm. Do you think that the very center of this products to power this next Well we're the world's Because of the decisions we we put so much of our might We're now in every cloud. We're in every country and 35,000 companies use our AI advance this field. Giant companies like cloud the way to startups. Thousands of startups. They're in all kinds of digital biology to I'm really happy with the I'm really pleased with how technology so that anybody You can't ignore the dedication to the work at From the very first day I dedicated to wanting to do focused on it for five And of course in research, I'm incredibly proud of the Yeah really terrific team. Here in Silicon Valley, founders who've started kind of publicly competing bought more when and who Sort of competing for A100. What would you want There's more. Come get them. Everybody should win. You know, winners to all. In the past, when you start company or technology software engineers. It is still true and you scientists. But today, some amazing startups that - where they're 25, 30 Backed up with a large data powered by A100s. If you want to start a AI. And you're supercharged the algorithms that you that you're going to teach And so it's really quite a startups are going to get Now we're onto something know, built on these AI language models. It's for the AI industry. It feels very much like the cloud really took off and conditions feel exactly the much, much more industries. Right now, generative AI is accomplish. How do you if only a couple big to do it at scale? Well, it turns out it And the reason why there bragging rights on so many quite democratized. We took what otherwise center running CPUs and we center of $100 million. Now $100 million is, when and shared by 100 nothing. If you take a look design a chip, so you put costs us about $2 to $3 When I hit enter and asked that email is $100 million. And then it populates these centers. And when you train let's say it costs $10 So a chip, and there are world, taping out a chip is million, $30 million, nothing less than $10 And now you could build language model, like a $10, $20 million. That's really, really And so I think the the to create their foundation protein foundation model, a There will be a robotics There'll be foundation finance, for all kinds of different industries and I was just in Sweden and there, we helped them with. supercomputer. It's a supercomputer. And with dollars, you can build the in Sweden. And so these are technologies now. There are always skeptics perhaps, by how fast AI is it's become with fake eye contact, for example of. What do you say Well, the first thing that take advantage of the their own capability. There's no question that has been so great. It is the fastest growing and it's been used in all The thing that's really intelligence is that what has eliminated the digital Everyone is a programmer Everybody could program a During my generation, the computer was: started with Then you learn C and then now PyTorch or Python. And each one of those and these are really weird to learn. And the whole computers more and more became harder and harder to And the technology divide until artificial about cucumber farmers who sort cucumbers. And a high school student And now 150 million people computer, instead of C or Python, you're now anybody's plain language. And you tell this computer And this computer goes off Or you tell the computer script, and it goes off and And so this capability has the very first time. It's put technology, very hands of anybody who would And so I think this is time in my generation that contributed to creating technology accessible to Not just to use, but to Not just to use, but to And so I think every domain able to do that. And I number one, take advantage . Make yourself more Lift yourself, you know, Power up your own career, capability. And then from the productivity of society How do you stay ahead in an customers could become your You know, speaking about their own internal chips as How do you stay ahead in We stay ahead by, number But also we do it very The first thing that I center in the world should they can. And the reason know, the world's data power now. And it used to Moore's Law, even though we throughput every year, the world's data centers fast. And the reason for But now that's changed. That has ended. And as a result, if we want computing throughput we question that's happening, that the world needs in the And you can see in the very quickly and that's a The first thing that we center in the world, for the goodness of accelerate everything you Now, an ASIC is designed to It does nothing, it does very well. What Nvidia does accelerated computing So we could, on the one science. On the other hand On the other hand, do large graphics and play video And so our ability to be extremely performant lets and the utility, the data center. When you build important thing for you is You can't afford to have 30%. You would like the because it cost billions of Nvidia's accelerated have versatility and So our TCO, our cost, is And that's the reason why can use it on so many we're in every cloud. And so if you're an developer or a startup to have the ability to every cloud or any cloud possible for you to do it hybrid cloud, all the way One architecture. What do you say to gamers entirely on the core Well, if not for all of our if not for all of our intelligence, what we did would not have been GPU and programable shader century ago, and it's for the last 25 years. About five years ago, we in order for us to take games to the next level, we ourselves. Change literally what we And so we invented this new graphics: ray tracing, and pathways of light and generative AI. And so we compute one the other seven. It's really quite amazing. Imagine a jigsaw puzzle and pieces and somehow the AI Pretty amazing. And so as a result, we what made possible ray We increased the factor of five. Or another way to think amount of energy consumed And so that great invention video games. And the next did, I think we have 25 Just a couple of questions industry. Experts seem to shortage is over. How did Nvidia weather that The chip shortage was a On the one hand, there was On the other hand, about this is now, we're now But some two or three challenges and demand . But not at the same Not in the same industry. Not in the same market. And so that was very, very foot on the gas and your exactly the same time and Our company weathered it We're a strong and Our financial performance technology and contribution We did some of our best our company. A100 was we're in full production All the work that we did RTX ray tracing and all of time. Meanwhile, our very good. And so I think on doing your good work and itself. And so I'm really, company and the work that And going forward, I think now. I think we're starting in channels. And the and more flexibility and next generation nodes. And so almost everything is What about a price slump? Does that worry you? Everything that we build is And the markets that we markets. You know, right investment needed in AI is Generative AI, this is the working for in the last ten And now AI is about to be digital biology and and retail and all these search. And everything about now is really about growth into the next phase of And AI is at the center of So I'm super excited about I want to make sure that we capitalize on it. The vast majority of your How have you insulated of the region in the case doesn't hold. As a company, our first that we're as resilient as And in every area that we through diversity and . In semiconductor design our chips, packaging, The systems that we build, things are like cars. They weigh 350 pounds per They're the heaviest And it's complicated. It's got tens of thousands And so we try to engineer that we do, diversity and The fact of the matter is company. This is a really And the world doesn't have It is imperative upon invest in diversity and And the move that they made in Arizona is a very big Will you be moving any of Arizona? Oh, absolutely. We'll use Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. The thing that's really mask runs everywhere and so all the various fabs for And so I'm excited about making so that the entire diversity and redundancy. Yeah, it's a really special About a quarter of your China. How do you calm export controls? Well, Nvidia's technology is It's a reflection of the that we make. The first comply with the turbulent, you know, month upside down to reengineer it's compliant with the able to serve the have in China. We're able China with the regulated support them. And so I fine in the ability to The customers that we have and consumer internet regulation is going to be We're going to be able to You are famous for What's the next one going The next big reinvention is physical world. And today, all of our AI digital. It's in software. It's, you know, it's It's all digital-related The next generation of AI, trillion of the world's physical world. And so it It could be robotic surgery It could be warehouses and energy plants and and so forth. And in order technology and artificial that physical world where important and resilience is kind of physical world we need a new type of And we created this thing allows us to connect the physical world. And phenomenal success. And we have 700-plus now. And from car industry you know, wind turbine And so I'm really excited And it represents probably container of all of computer graphics, robotics and physics I have great hopes for it. This is the last one. Just the longest running tech Is there any end in sight? Well, as you can tell, I'm enthusiastic and energetic I'm surrounded by amazing They keep me inspired and I things together. They give what we can do and the And I feel that I'm making company and to them, and to we can make really amazing And so I think for so long that, and I don't know going to be. But three or In another four decades, another three or four And so hopefully, I'll get long time. Wonderful. Well, thank you Thank you, Katie.