[music] [howls] [evil laughter] Left and right. Up and down. Side to side. Turn around. And now, the zombie hands! And now, the skeleton stance! And now, the monster face! And now... Spooky time, I'm not afraid on Halloween. Spooky time, Dance with me. Spooky time, I'm not afraid on Halloween. Spooky time, Trick or treat! [evil laughter] [howls] Left and right, Left and right. Up and down, Up and down. Side to side, Side to side. Turn around, Turn around. And now, the zombie hands! And now, the skeleton stance! And now, the monster face! And now... Spooky time, I'm not afraid on Halloween. Spooky time, Dance with me. Spooky time, I'm not afraid on Halloween. Spooky time, Trick or treat! [laughter] Hey! The itsy bitsy spider was dancing all around. Down came the rain and washed the spider out! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! Hey! The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout. Down came the rain, and it slipped back to the ground! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! Hey! Hey! The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout. Down came the rain, and the spider slid right down! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! Hey! The itsy bitsy spider looked up the water spout. Down came the rain, but the spider felt worn out. Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout. Down came the rain, but the snorkel helped it out! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider could finally dance again! Hey! Hey! Hey! [music] [singing] Witchy, witchy, sing my song. Ee, ee! Witchy, witchy, all day long, sing a witchy song. Happy Halloween! Happy Halloween. Ee, ee, ee, ee, ee, ee, ee! Happy Halloween! Monster, monster, sing my song. Roar, roar! Monster, monster, all day long, sing a monster song. Happy Halloween! Happy Halloween! Roar, roar, roar, roar, roar, roar, roar! Happy Halloween! Mh-Hmm. Mh-hmm. Boo. Roar. Ee. Pirate, pirate, sing my song. Arr, arr! Pirate, pirate, all day long, sing a pirate song. Happy Halloween! Happy Halloween! Arr, arr, arr, arr. Happy Halloween! Ghosty, ghosty, sing my song. Boo-ooo-ooo! Ghosty, ghosty, all day long, sing a ghosty song. Happy Halloween! Happy Halloween! Boo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo. Happy Halloween! [music] We're gonna catch a monster. We're gonna catch a monster. But this forest looks pitch black. Don't you worry. I've got your back. We can find sweets in the forest. Trick or treat! We know you're in there! We're gonna catch a monster. We're gonna catch a monster. See that house Beside the well? I don't dare to ring the doorbell. Don't you worry. I'll ring with you. It's so easy when we are two. We're gonna catch a monster! We're gonna catch a monster! He hides in the cemetery. Frankenstein So huge and heavy. He won't be easy to catch. He's so slow. He's just no match! Look Elliot, like this! Watch and learn! We're gonna catch a monster. We're gonna catch a monster. On that castle on a hill There's a light eerie and still. But that castle's just too high! It's alright. We'll climb it in no time! Surprise! Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. A fireman putting out a fire A dentist fixing up a little smile An electrician soldering a wire A car mechanic changing a tire. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. The traffic guard tells you when it's green A farmer in the field planting beans A janitor who's scrubbing until it's clean A policeman who stops you if you're mean. Everybody, get up. We're going right. Right. We're going left. Left. We're going up. Up. We're going down. Down. Now don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Raise your arms. Arms. Turn around. Around. Kick your legs. Legs. Now shake. Shake. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a smile on your face. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a-- This is how you put a-- This is how you put a smile on your face. Baby Baby Bot Bot. We're going right. Right. We're going left. Left. We're going up. Up. We're going down. Down. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Raise your arms. Arms. Turn around. Around. Kick your legs. Legs. Now shake. Shake. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a smile on your face. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a-- This is how you put a-- This is how you put a smile on your face. Baby Baby Bot Bot. We are on a dragon hunt. We are on a dragon hunt, but there's a river over there. We can't go around it, we must swim through it. Splash, splash, splash. We are on a dragon hunt. We are on a dragon hunt, but there's a mountain over there. We can't go through it, we must climb over it. Climb, climb, climb. We are on a dragon hunt. We are on a dragon hunt, but there's a frozen lake in front of us. We must skate across it. Skate, skate, skate. Because we are on a dragon hunt. Yes, we are on the dragon hunt, but there's a -- Oh, this is crazy. Is that the enchanted forest? We must walk between the trees. Step, step, step. We are on a dragon hunt. We are on a dragon hunt. There's the dragon's lair. We must go inside. The dragon is behind you! But wait a minute! That's not a dragon! No, sir, it's only a tiny white mouse in front of us. I thought I would find a very dangerous dragon. Oh, no, sir. He's just a funny white mouse, not a dragon. Hello there sun sun sun sun sun We're gonna have fun fun fun fun fun Hello there sun sun sun sun sun We're gonna have fun fun fun fun fun Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Here comes the rain rain rain rain rain It's rainy all day day day day day Here comes the rain rain rain rain rain We're gonna play play play play play Here comes the snow snow snow snow snow It's snowy all day day day day day Here comes the snow snow snow snow snow We're gonna play play play play play Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Oh no It's a storm storm storm storm storm Run, run away, away, away, away, away Oh no, it's a storm We'll come another day, another day Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh Ooh ooh ooh And this is how we play, we always play This is how we play, we always play This is how we play, we always play Let's play He's a huge dinosaur. And a known carnivore. He can scare anything [roar] But he's got two tiny arms. [music] Cowy's T-Rex won't do any harm. He can't even scrub his back when he takes a bubble bath. Cowy's T-Rex has two tiny arms. Cowy's T-Rex has two tiny arms. Cowy's T-Rex won't do any harm. He can't even tie his shoes. That's what Cowy helps him do. Cowy's T-Rex has two tiny arms. But he doesn't really feel like a good-for-nothing. Because his tiny, tiny arms [music] [tap dance] Cowy's T-Rex has two tiny arms. Far in the candy mountains there lives a unicorn who loves to give. If you're using crayons you wouldn't understand how its magic colors all the land. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. Brighter than the sun we shine leaving glitter trails behind. Rainbow twinkles painting the sky. It's so much fun to fly. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. My unicorn! [music] Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, and brighten up our day. She takes the stethoscope, and listens how my heart goes. She takes the thermometer, measures what's my temperature. She taps me on the knee. My reflexes are amazing! She's measuring my height. She says my legs have grown. She's measuring my weight. My arms are getting strong! Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, and brighten up our day. She takes the pressure cuff, and measures how my blood pumps. She checks my eyes and nose, and says that I am good to go! She's measuring my height, she says my legs have grown. She's measuring my weight, My arms are getting strong. Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, and brighten up our day. Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Doctors are here to help us, And brighten up our day. Going to the check-up, so everything's okay. Everything's okay! When I grow up I'd love to be a writer Turn stories into books Or maybe a dancer Turn music into moves I'd love to be a pilot And fly my friends across the world I'd love to be an actor Pretend to be somebody else Or I could come up with medicines Yeah, I'd love to be a scientist Maybe chemist Maybe physicist Or both Just like Marie Curie I'll build bridges to bring people close Just like an engineer does I'll invent new things to light the world Just like Thomas Edison When I grow up When I grow up I wanna help build a better world When I grow up When I grow up I wanna help build a better world When I grow up When I grow up I could be a firefighter And help to put out all the flames Or I could be a botanist Improve the crops that people eat Or come up with new recipes Like George Washington Carver did Or I could build cars or even planes Just like Henry Ford did in his days When I grow up When I grow up I wanna help build a better world When I grow up When I grow up I wanna help build a better world I wanna help build a better world Ok, are you guys ready? This is the way the penguins jump, penguins jump, penguins jump This is the way the penguins jump, all day long. Walk! This is the way the penguins walk, penguins walk, penguins walk This is the way the penguins walk, all day long. Eat! This is the way the penguins eat, penguins eat, penguins eat This is the way the penguins eat, all day long. Dance! This is the way the penguins dance, penguins dance, penguins dance This is the way the penguins dance, all day long. This is the way the penguins sleep, penguins sleep, penguins sleep This is the way the penguins sleep, all night long Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! This is the samba and the limbo, it comes from Brazil. Rio de Janeiro is where you must go to dance it with me. In Italy, in the City of Venice, we'll wear a mask, dancing the waltz, so gracefully! Come with me to New Orleans, Let's have some fun at Mardi Gras! If you like the sight of the grass, this is the city of jazz, Hurry up and come to Mardi Gras! In Spain, there's a carnival in Cadiz. Where the streets are always sunny, while they sing the Pasodoble, And the people are so jolly! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! Alright, alright! Today's going to be a fun day. And I'm going to need your help. So keep your eyes on the hands of the clock. Because we're starting... now! At eight o'clock I wake up. Make my bed. Put on my clothes. At nine o'clock Breakfast time! Brush my teeth. Get ready to go. At ten o'clock Time for school. With my friends It's always cool. Eleven o'clock Play outside. Watch me race Down the slide. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Alright, alright. That's good, really good! But this is just the morning We still have lots of hours ahead. Are you ready? Twelve o'clock I learn a song. We celebrate and dance along. Yeah! At one o'clock Time for lunch. I love my veggies. Yum, yum, yum! At two o'clock We take it slow. I have a nap. That's how I roll. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Well done! This is going great. But don't back off now! The best has yet to come... Let's go! At four o'clock After school I go swimming in the pool. At six o'clock Quack, quack, quack. I play with Ducky in the bath. At eight o'clock Get pj's on. I read a story. Start to yawn. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Nice job! We've arrived at nine o'clock, And I'm getting sleepy. I don't know about you, but I'm going to have sweet dreams Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. The little chicks say cheep, cheep, cheep! When they're chilly. When they sleep. Mother hen looks all day for wheat and corn. She gives them food and keeps them warm. Under her two wings they will go to sleep. Until tomorrow without a peep. The little calves say moo, moo, moo! When they're happy. When they chew. Mother cow looks all day for grass and wheat. Teaching them to find food that's oh-so sweet. When the farmer visits, the calves jump and play. Then, they fall asleep until the next day. The little lambs go baa, baa, baa! As they run around jumping in the straw. When the lambs get hungry, time for them to eat. Mother sheep finds a snack. A super yummy treat. When the lambs get sleepy, mother's like a bed. Curled around her soft coat they rest their heads. [music] I'm going to need your help with this song. I want you to listen for the sound word and repeat it back. Are you ready? Here we go. I hear the wind whoosh through the trees Whoosh The leaves crunch under my feet Crunch The rocks kerplunk into the lake Kerplunk And I feel drip drops on my face Drip drop Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear That was great. This time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it back twice. The car vrooms down the street Vroom, vroom Its horn goes beep Beep, beep It screeches to a stop Screech, screech And the tire goes pop Pop, pop Uh-oh Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear This last time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it three times. Don't forget to be silly. I chomp on my food Chomp, chomp, chomp I gulp down my drink Gulp, gulp, gulp And now I have the hiccups Hiccup, hiccup, hiccup Oh, no, I'm going to sneeze Achoo Listen up to the sound all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear Achoo. [music] Code Masters! Code Masters! If you talk to your computer, you communicate in code. It's no secret - ask a coder! Applications do what they're told. Let's start to code, now! One o one, yeah! It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I. the digits flow. Because we are, Code Masters! Code Masters! Code Masters! Code Masters! Sometimes, in the world of coding, errors called bugs slow you down, that's when you have trouble loading, the code you worked so hard on! Stay in the loop, now! One o one, yeah! It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I. the digits flow. Different kinds of coding language, make up lots of games you see, working as a complete package, like C# or C++. It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I., the digits flow. Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! [music] Get out of bed. Pull up the sheets. Go to the kitchen. And take a seat. But if you've just run out of your favorite food, why don't you try something new? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Look in your closet and find a shirt. Put on your pants or grab a skirt. But if you just can't get your shoes to tie, give it another try. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Let's go potty, try just in case. Look in the mirror and wash your face. But if your hair is looking kind of wild, why don't you try another style? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Zip up your jacket and grab your lunch. Put on your backpack, then give big hugs! But if it's raining outside and it's getting on your head, wear something else instead. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. [music] More songs, activities, [music] [laughter] That was fun. [music]