Drill instructor: Louder, louder! You're not screaming at me! I can't hear you, [unintelligible]. Recruit: Aye, aye, sir! Aye, aye, sir! Aye, aye, sir! Aye, aye, sir! Narrator: This is Marine Corps boot camp in Parris Island, South Carolina. Before they become United States Marines, all recruits have to graduate from the Marine Corps' 13-week which tests them physically Drill instructor: No Ty Kopke: It's a pressure under the pressure of an someone that's putting of attention to detail every single day. And, to a certain degree, everything you do is never Recruit: Everything at boot camp sucks. It's gonna hurt. It's gonna be painful, but it's only gonna hurt more Drill instructor: Around, around, around! Kopke: It's boot camp, and for the challenges that lie beyond. [cadence] Narrator: We spent five where we saw different companies at various stages of training. Drill instructor: You will Get on the yellow footprints right now. Recruits: Aye, sir. Drill instructor: You will when you're told to do Do you understand? Recruits: Yes, sir. Narrator: On day one of boot camp, new recruits arrive at where they take their first by walking through these silver hatches, symbolizing the threshold between the outside Drill instructor: You will walk once and never again. Do you understand? Recruits: Aye, sir! Narrator: Once inside, and assigned to their platoons. Drill instructor: Put it up! Drill instructor: I know you were told not to come with your hair down. Put it up in a bun. In a bun, bun, bun, bun, move faster. Aye, ma'am. Narrator: After graduation, of four years of service. Upon entering the Corps, will earn around $20,000 a year. Drill instructor: Sit down. Narrator: Recruits are to a family member or their recruiter to let them know they've arrived. Recruit: This is recruit Hatcher. I have arrived safely at Parris Island. Please do not send any food or bulky items to me in the mail. Narrator: They're only allowed to read the script printed for Recruit: I will contact by letter with my new address. Thank you for your support. Goodbye for now. Drill instructor: Get in the classroom. Recruits: Aye, sir. Narrator: Recruits are given three chances to get someone on the line. Recruit: Sir, my recruiter's Drill instructor: Call him again. Narrator: Not every recruit Drill instructor: If there is no answer, hang it up and close it. Recruit: Aye, sir. Narrator: But they won't The Marine Corps Recruit sits on 8,000 acres of the It's one of two enlisted recruit depots in the United States. The other is in San Diego, where only male recruits are trained. Around 20,000 recruits graduate from Parris Island every year before joining the more than 180,000 Marines actively serving today. Kopke: We take young men and all cultures, maybe they were they've got different they are the melting pot of America. And they come here with one common goal, and that's to be a United States Marine. Clip: Parris Island, South Carolina. Here, everyday Americans become Marines, the toughest fighting men in the world. Narrator: Male recruits have been trained at Parris Island since 1915. Female recruits began [whistling] Recruits: [yelling] Narrator: Today, females of recruits at Parris Island and approximately 8% of the the lowest percentage of any [cadence] A recruit's day begins Their typical wake-up [yelling] Recruits endure an intense Drill instructor: Four, three, Four, three? Recruit: Yes, sir. Drill instructor: Fail! Narrator: Some recruits arrive in better shape than others. Kopke: Some never did anything you know, as a couch potato. And some may have been So there's a vast spread of what their athletic Recruit: Aye, sir. Narrator: Much of their in Leatherneck Square, where a series of intimidating obstacles Drill instructor: No, freaking fail. You failed this event. Nope, just grab your canteens Recruit: May this recruit Drill instructor: What did I just say? Recruit: Aye, sir. Drill instructor: What'd I just say? Recruit: Aye, sir! Recruit: Aye, sir. Kopke: The training program It starts out in a crawl, throughout training. 99.9% of those that get here can complete all those requirements regardless of how they started. Recruit: I'm slipping, I don't want to do this. Drill instructor: You're fine. Recruit: No, I'm not, please. Drill instructor: Good lord, son. Narrator: Any recruit gets the chance to conquer that fear, courtesy of this 47-foot-tall tower. Recruits must rappel down Recruit: For me, the rappel tower was hard 'cause I sort of had a fear of heights. Drill instructor: Grab with your right hand. Recruit: You have to trust a rope, so there's nothing to be worried about. You'll be safe all the time. Recruit: Can you please help me? Drill instructor: I'm Recruit: I don't wanna go down. Narrator: Recruits with have little choice but to face their fear. One of the most dreaded parts of training is the gas chamber. Drill instructor: Crush, Narrator: Where recruits more commonly known as tear gas. Once the recruits enter the chamber, they break the seals of their gas masks. Recruit: You go in. You feel You just feel burning. Drill instructor: Say Recruit: Feels like those few Narrator: After around five minutes, the recruits are free. But the pain endures. Recruit: Definitely, you It's really nice to be able to breathe in and not feel an instant burning sensation. [coughing] Antonio Garay: Gas chamber's builds confidence. Confidence in the gear, confidence and then confidence in themselves. Narrator: Recruits are trained in different styles of Drill instructor: First thing thrust, you understand? Drill instructor: Or that Recruits: Aye, sir. Narrator: A key aspect of is fighting with pugil sticks. Drill instructor: You kill Recruits: Aye, aye, sir! Narrator: The pugil stick to mirror those used in Darrin Hill: Here in kind of a little ditty [whistling] [cheering] So, that red side, it's the actual knife portion mounted on the weapon. So anything that you nine times out of 10, are either gonna be incapacitated or laid to rest. [whistling] Honestly, it gives them an opportunity to blow off a little steam. They have a lot of pent-up aggression, especially towards, maybe, They're out there, they're like they signed up to do, which is learn how to combat the enemy. Narrator: Recruits also Recruit: Marine Corps, Marine Corps, Marine Corps, Marine Corps. Drill instructor: Fight back, you! Narrator: And engage in other types of hand-to-hand combat. Drill instructor: Grab the muzzle. Recruits: Freeze, get back, get back. Narrator: Although male do intersect during training, platoons are separated by gender. And although the Recruit with integration before, the Marine Corps is the that separates male and female recruits during basic training. According to the Corps, every Marine is first and foremost a rifleman. Recruits spend the bulk of two weeks devoted to marksmanship... the first of which sees Jonathan Gilbert: First They have to understand how to aim. They have to understand when they're taking that shot. They have to understand exactly and how to have follow-through Kopke: Combat operations every single Marine, regardless What it is to sit behind a rifle, look down that barrel, and be [gunshots] Recruits: Aye, sir. Drill instructor: You are going to swim until you pass that ladder. Recruits: Aye, sir. Narrator: The Marine Corps is defined as an amphibious warfare force. Therefore, swimming plays Narrator: During swim week, recruits go through numerous while wearing their camouflage uniforms. But training at Parris Recruits also spend long But what may seem like downtime... Drill instructor: Push, push, push. Can end at any moment decides to order an At Parris Island, it's what Recruit: It's an experience. You realize the thing you and then you realize, OK, that hurt, so let's not do that again. Recruit: Physically, it I never worried about the it was more thinking and how I need to [screaming] Kopke: So, there's gonna be some chaos. Because, when they come here, we wanna tear them down a little bit. And then we wanna bring them back up into the mold of what it is Narrator: Recruit training as the Crucible. Over the course of 54 hours, recruits must endure The sounds of gunfire and shelling are played over loudspeakers Recruits are forced to work together to overcome obstacles that require problem-solving and strategy. Drill instructor: You Recruits: Aye, sir. Narrator: This is what The recruits had become Recruit: Catchers ready? Recruits: Ready! Recruit: Jumping. Recruit: Just jump. Jump. Drill instructor: You're not even jumping. Recruit: Aye, sir. Drill instructor: You're Recruit: Aye, sir. Recruit: You know, you go You just start thinking, man, my arms haven't felt this Recruit: We're halfway there, come on. Recruit: You just keep looking and right of you, like, I gotta keep going. Like, I'm not gonna let [grunting] So there's no reason not to push. Narrator: Once the Crucible is complete, these recruits officially become Marines. The day before graduation, friends and family see their in more than three months. [cheering] Kopke: Families that come that haven't seen their son or daughter in about three months immediately notice not only a physical but an intangible difference. When they walk across that parade deck on training day 70 and they graduate, they're no longer Narrator: Meanwhile, in the Drill instructor: I'm talking to you. Recruit: Aye, sir. Drill instructor: All get all that trash out. Recruit: Aye, sir. Narrator: Brand new recruits diligently square away their racks before being warmly welcomed by their senior drill instructor. James Espinoza: Sit up Our mission is to train each one of you to become a United States Marine. Discipline and spirit are We will give every effort to train you, even after some of you Starting now, you will treat with the highest respect. Physical or verbal abuse will not be tolerated. My drill instructors and I Everywhere you go, you must give 100% of Above all else, never quit or give up. We offer you the challenge and the opportunity to earn the title United States Marine. Recruits: Yes, sir.