Sitting in the Silence. Most of you have come here to hear me talk, and I say to you that sitting in the silence is If you came just to hear me talk, for I am not a public speaker, I am not a But yet, most of you function Think back in retrospect--how many Literally hundreds. How many books If the talks and the books did you You're here because you're still seeking, external to yourself--and you cannot do that. There is nowhere to go and nothing There is no one who can change it for you. When you sit in the silence, you Most people do not like to do When they're finished here, they go home, Then they talk to their families, It gets you nowhere. Many of you do not like to sit in the It brings up all sorts of things about So you want to be entertained, hear There is no profound knowledge. Everything you've been taught is a lie. But who is the Self? The mistake most people make is How can you change yourself? a bad mind, or something is wrong, Those things don't exist. That's what I mean when I say, &quot;Be Your Self is spontaneous, lives in the When you are your Self, you are God, you You are always yourself. You never were anything else. You are not what you appear to be. is the appearance--or the belief in the Most of you still believe you No matter how many times I tell you still identify with it. What is this body all about? an electronic microscope, you will What is an atom? an atom has a proton, which is the center, Your body appears to be made of trillions of You are not as solid as you believe. Now, the amazing thing about all this is You are a small universe in a large universe. The universe is composed of What is a solar system? revolving around it--just like the atom. &quot;We live in the body of God,&quot; for the It pulsates. You are a replica of the universe. an atom in your body, you would be in a universe. they're all inside your body. So you are not what you appear to be. this is not only spiritual, it's scientific. are spaces between the planets and stars. what we call &quot;space.&quot; Sages tell us it's actually consciousness. What is that life force? The answer, my dear friends, is you. and you don't exist as &quot;you.&quot; Creation only exists because you exist. what happens to creation? You may say, &quot;I know it's there anyway.&quot; Who knows? As far as you're concerned, you're dead. That's how it is when it's time to leave The difference between sleeping and being realized but you're not conscious of it. conscious of the whole game. see what you're made of--trillions of You've been fooled. Why should you awaken? and see what's happening. You have no idea why there's war, There's going to be civil war in Russia. Africa has upheavals. Yet reality is love, reality is peace, It doesn't make sense. and peace, when you behold the effect of reality You have been hypnotized. It makes me believe I'm Robert It makes you believe you're Joan, Fred, Henry, You worry about your life. You always want to change things, make It's all a joke. The only thing you can do is wake up. When you wake up, you see the The mirror is always the same; it never changes. but where do the reflections come from? It's just an analogy to help you Only reality exists, and you are that. Only love exists, and you are that. you would be the happiest person that ever Unchanging peace. But you have chosen to identify with the You believe your life is not what it should be. You compare yourself to others, But as you know, those changes only last a short The wise person does not look to change anything. They become quiet. They work on themselves, watching They observe themselves getting angry, Little by little, they realize, &quot;That's They do not react to their condition. The less they react, the more free they become. They compare themselves to no one. They simply watch themselves, observe themselves. shouting, &quot;I am absolute reality. Instead, they see where they're coming Such a being unfolds rapidly. predicament such a being is in--it doesn't When the mind rests in the heart--that is, when world--there is peace, harmony, and pure being. it begins to compare, judge, and feel offended. How do you begin? in right now--whether you think it's good or bad, sick, or healthy--is your right place. You stop trying to be someone else. You are in your right place, If you can become happy and peaceful circumstances will change in your favor, Whatever change comes along regarding your The more you can see that intellectually, The more the karmic patterns begin to . things that used to annoy you no longer do. you fade because you've stopped reacting. win your point, or find the right You remain centered. When something comes along--good or bad--you and laugh, for you have separated You begin to realize that your body-mind is So there is nothing to worry There is nothing that can upset or harm you. Whatever someone does to your body--whether because you are not your body. no matter what you see with your eyes, it can You have actually separated your That's just the beginning. As you go further, your body and mind drop off. and less important to you, and you You know, feel, and experience that your You do not exist as your body or your mind--you You no longer believe your body and You just know there is no body and no mind. There is no reason for your body, You may first feel this slightly, the feeling, the greater the happiness. You are beginning to feel reality. they always do, yet you see it differently. It's like reading a magazine--the are not the magazine, nor the images. Remember, as long as you can Therefore, you do not walk around telling am consciousness.&quot; By their fruits ye shall know them. People will naturally be drawn to you You have found peace. You have not found anything--you Now let's talk about you. a while--what you're going through personally in that upset you, the things that make you cry. That's what's called blasphemy. you believe that someone or upset you, make you feel bad, or As an example, so many people come to me every when are we going to have a place of our own? peaceful or have an ashram somewhere And my answer is always the same: If you're not peaceful now, you're not Wherever you go, you've got What makes you think you will find peace? gossip spreader, do you think a It may work in the beginning, but soon you'll You'll be restless, find fault, and look for So I say to you: stay just where you are. some semblance of peace and harmony, not go anywhere until you've found yourself. Angeles for a while, then they foul everything then Oregon, then New York. They've never seen themselves for who they are. This is why last week I asked you, for one Whenever something happens in your life, instead it, simply ask yourself, &quot;Who am I?&quot; ask yourself, &quot;Who am I?&quot; feel upset, ask yourself, &quot;Who am I?&quot;