Imagine a world so warm that the ocean feels Huge volcanic eruptions have pumped the air And with the continents locked together from the world is hot, flat, and very, very dry. Early reptiles and mammal ancestors thrive that's still struggling to recover from This is Earth, 250 million years ago, at the But then, starting around 234 million years wetter. The rains finally came to this hot, dry world. And then they stayed ... for two million years. This period of intense rain killed off many heck out of the geologists who found the flood This time is known as the Carnian Pluvial of animals to take over the world: the dinosaurs. Evidence of just how hot and dry the world in the land beneath our feet. Rocks from that period are mostly swaths of woodlands, with no sign of the coal swamps the Permian. And one major reason that the world was so With all the continents locked together, rain and there were no big mountain ranges to break Now, dinosaurs did exist in this dry, post-Permian But they were still vying for their place ancestors. The dominant carnivores back then were the animals that included reptiles like pseudosuchians For example, there was Ornithosuchus, which up when it wanted to run, which I imagine actually see. But even stranger than these were the rhynchosaurs, cheekbones to die for, all on a chubby lizard And although there were no true mammals, there them at the time. They're actually more closely related to four-legged creatures with bills and tusks. All of these fascinating creatures were widespread of dicynodont - called Lystrosaurus - being were actually used to help construct the idea But these animals, adapted as they were to Most of what we know about the history of types. And in the early 1990's, two British geologists of the Triassic that they knew. Instead of finding red, slowly-deposited sand, from giant lakes, and evidence of coal swamps. All of these were signs of massive rainfall, But stranger still, these traces of a suddenly England to the Americas to Israel, in regions That meant the rise in rainfall must have Initially, other geologists were skeptical. Couldn't these rocks just be explained by Well, over the next two decades, reports of and they kept pointing to a world that was The rocks revealed coal deposits in Austria, in Utah, and giant rivers in China. And they all dated to the same window of time In time, this phenomenon came to be known The Carnian is the name of the geologic age And for what it's worth I seriously thought but I didn't because that would And "pluvial" means rain, and it rained For example, one estimate suggests that the almost quadrupled, reaching a peak of 1400 For context, that's how much that a temperate Northwest. And this would have happened over, and over, It was not one big flood; it was more like two million years. And with all this rain, things were bound was the sudden abundance of dinosaurs. In rock dated to the start of the Carnian 5% of the fossils of terrestrial vertebrates. But by the end, they make up more than 90% So what made the dinosaurs so suddenly successful? Were they better off than their competitors Or did other animals simply die, leaving them The key might not have been the rain itself, of giant plants! During this time, we begin to see lots of like the primordial-looking Bennettitales. For herbivores, this change in food supply For example, rhynchosaurs were abundant, but And they couldn't stand on their hind legs This would've been fine in a dry environment, But in a wet forest, rhynchosaurs would've leaves and fruit fell to the ground. Meanwhile, dicynodonts were herbivores, too, And, they also didn't use gastroliths, the to help digest plant material. Without teeth or gastroliths, dicynodonts fibrous, like wood. And sure enough, fossils of dicynodont poop the digested remains of mostly soft ferns, By comparison, some plant-eating dinosaurs us poop fossils that are up to 85% wood! Which is a lot of fiber. So as the climate became wetter, soft small conifers, which the dicynodonts and rhynchosaurs And without the rhynchosaurs and dicynodonts, -- would've lost a lot of their food supply. So maybe, instead of being better-adapted the only major group of reptiles left standing. Or, y'know, squatting. Even though we don't know exactly why the dinosaurs became a lot more abundant during And the dicynodonts, the rhynchosaurs and Now, there's still the question of: What first place? Well, right before the rains came, some 235 activity took place in Alaska and British Today it's known as the Wrangellian eruptions. These eruptions lasted for more than 5 million to be 6 kilometers thick, and releasing enough degrees Celsius worldwide. And, over a very long time, warmer temperatures can speed up the water cycle, driving more among other things. And in fact, because of this increase in atmospheric the Carnian Humid Episode. But for what it's worth, my favorite name Which I think is delightful so let's try to bring that term back, OK? Anyway, after about a million years of volcanic wet that rain could finally reach even Pangea's OK but then, how did it stop? Well, when carbon levels are really high for good at getting some of the extra carbon back Plants take it in and store it in their tissues; the oceans soak it up to form carbonate rocks So as the Wrangellian eruptions slowed down, excess CO2 was reabsorbed from the atmosphere, By the time the eruptions had completely ended to a classically hot, dry Triassic climate up. But even though the Carnian Pluvial Episode on life were permanent. All that rainfall helped conifers spread and today. And while the start of the Triassic may have on their hind legs had fully entered the age of dinosaurs. Thanks for joining me for this wet intermezzo! Now, wouldn't you like to have all of natural I would and now you can! With the first-ever Eons poster, created by Just go to DFTBA.com and links are in the description Now, let me know what you want to learn about, comments! And if you haven't already and I don't know why you wouldn't have -- but if you havent, you should go to youtube.com/eons