(Bell Rings) Dear friends, to love means to listen. Listening is very important practice, there It may be that our body is calling us and It may be our feelings that our calling us It maybe our perceptions are calling us and It is very important for us to pay attention The capacity of listening to ourselves, is to others. The capacity to love others depends on the I would like to invite you to practice with The sound of the bell is a kind of sound that need, to our suffering. Because only when we are able to listen to to accept us and to love us. And our love for the other people, other beings, In my temple, we always listen to the bell, we follow our breathing. To go back to ourselves, and to listen deeply sound brings me back to my true home. To go home is a very nice thing, but to go Sometimes we are reluctant to go home because to touch the pain, the sorrow, the fear which But there must be a way of going home, that We have to learn a way to go home with loving And we shall be practicing together... and listening to the bell. During the practice, we just pay attention, else, we let the sound penetrate in deeply to us, and we just enjoy listening. Please do not do any thinking, just be there (Bell Rings) The teaching of love presented by the Buddha yourself and people happy. And the four aspects of true love can be described Maitri means loving kindness, maitri is defined to offer happiness, that is maitri. It is not only the intention to make one person not maitri yet. That is why we have to say maitri is the intention, happy. To offer maitri to someone, and the object Maybe a person we have sympathy with, maybe neutral person, and maybe a person that we dislike. So there are five kinds of objects, the first person with whom we have sympathy, the third the so-called neutral person, and finally to be responsible for our suffering. And according to the tradition, we have to Because like we have stated, our capacity of loving oneself. If we do not have peace, joy, within ourselves, person peaceful, happy. And therefore it is very important that we of stability, of freedom, of happiness in Otherwise, we would have nothing to share, not happy ourselves. It is truly the teaching of the Buddha and loving kindness, the capacity of bringing persons. And if there is no maitri, your love cannot can only bring sorrow and anger is not true The second aspect of true love is karuna, pain in the person you love. Transforming the pain in the person you love, But compassion is not a perfect word for karuna, "com" meaning together, and "passion" You don't really need to suffer in order like a doctor. He doesn't have to suffer the same kind help his patient remove the pain in himself So karuna is like that, karuna is the willingness, in the object of your love, and the object When we look deeply into the nature of our called karuna, compassion in it. If compassion, karuna does not exist in our It is the kind of love that can only bring And the third aspect, the third element of love always brings joy to you, and to the If your love is not bringing joy to you and You have to work to transform it, if you only not true love. And the fourth element of true love is upeksha, means no discrimination. When we love someone, and yet that someone to be herself, that person doesn't feel love. She has space around her to move around, she And if your love deprive yourself and deprive that is not true love. So love in such a way that you can preserve you love, that is true love, that is upeksha. So the definition of love in Buddhism is very Of course when we practice looking deeply these four elements, but they are still very And opposite nature of these four things maybe to throw our love away, to stop loving, that deeply into the nature of our love, and practice The element of karuna will grow everyday, of freedom, upeksha will grow everyday. And the more these four elements grow, the you love becomes. And if we practice looking deeply we see that three aspects. When we say for instance, "I love whiskey" is not something that will grant us freedom freedom. And you remove the freedom from the person And if freedom is not there, joy is not there, not there. So if one thing is not there, the three other That is why we speak of the nature of interbeing If one of the four develop truly, and the That is the nature of interbeing, of the four are sometimes called the, "unlimited minds" grow larger and larger and they can embrace And the Buddha is described as someone who love, great loving kindness, great compassion, These are the four unlimited minds, immeasurable, in Buddhism. (Bell Rings) Buddhist meditation has been described as You cannot practice deep looking unless you the present moment. I don't need to run into the future in order My true home is in the here and the now, and moment, we begin to see things more deeply. First we may have the notion that there is Of course suffering and pain is there... but and freedom is there also. Happiness could not be possible without peace are still small but they need peace. We know that peace, stability, and some freedom the practice is to bring to us the energy And when you go back to the present moment, able to touch peace, the stability, and the Maybe covered up by worries, fear, anger, When you go back to yourself, to the present We would not be afraid of encountering your We are made of the five elements, form feelings, consciousness, and that is the territory, We are the king, we are the queen, ruling the five elements. But we have the tendency to get away from We want to seek refuge elsewhere, because to our kingdom we will have to suffer, because There is pain, there is fear, there is anxiety is to get away from our territory, and take And the practice that we do is the opposite and try to rearrange the situation, to make When we go to the bar, and get some alcohol the pain and the sorrow in us. If we turn on our television set, it may be we want to cover up our pain, our sorrow. We want to watch a program of television and so good, but we continue to watch because the pain, the sorrow in us. And sometimes we pick up a book to read, not but we want to take refuge in the book in us. But to practice means you are no longer afraid the harmony, the peace, and the joy that seemed your five elements. And the secret of your success is the energy mindfulness you cannot be afraid to go home Mindfulness means the capacity to be aware of being there, really, mindfulness is to If you love and if you really care for someone, because the person you love needs your true And my definition of mindfulness is to be So if you practice mindful breathing, breathing I know that I am there, breathing out I smile come together and you become fully present And you go to the person you love, you look I am really there for you, I am really here offering the person you love your true presence. Because the greatest gift you can make to presence. There is someone else that needs your presence, You may have been away from him or her for you always try to run away from yourself, offer yourself your true presence, this is And that energy has the capacity of embracing So that your pain and your sorrow will be You know that when the person you love suffers, do something to help him or her, your true suffering. The same thing is true with you, with yourself, already very healing. And to practice mindful breathing, mindful yourself is the first act of love. (Bell Rings) What we learn here is the greatest gift you And the declaration that you make has become in perfect concentration. If you are really concentrated, body and mind and then what you say will become a mantra. The mantra here is, "Darling I am here for reality, the reality which is the true presence And a mantra can be said in your own language, the mantra in sanskrit in order for it to I am here for you." And if you are really concentrated, if you a miracle. You are real, the other person is real, life to the other person, and that is a miracle. The second mantra is, "Darling I know you Again this mantra can only be uttered when are really there. I remember there were so many times when looking I said, "Full moon I know you are there, with the morning star. And I remember last spring I was in Korea I was so happy because I was blossoms were also very real. So I look at the Magnolia flowers very happy." It is really a real miracle, if you know that thing is there. So when you stand there and contemplate the you will recognize the beautiful sunset, and sunset. You look at the beautiful sunset and you feel you will be able to recognize and appreciate The other may be the full moon, the other the Magnolia flowers, the other life. You practice breathing in and out deeply in and then you go and sit close to the person you pronounce the mantra, you say, "Darling, That is a real statement of love, and the and not just a declaration of a speech. And when you pronounce that mantra, you are happy at the same time. Life is real in that moment and you nourish your mindfulness. You acknowledge her presence, you acknowledge her presence. These mantras, you can practice in your daily lover, you have to practice mindfulness. Mindfulness of breathing, mindfulness of sitting, your true presence. And in that state of being, anything you pronounce it, it is not difficult, it's not complicated. And happiness is something you can produce The third mantra is, "Darling I know you when you are mindful you will notice that If we suffer and if the person we love the we will suffer more, that is why when we suffer, The practice of mindfulness helps you to, is in difficulty, is suffering, and therefore First, to offer him or her our presence, because will relieve her suffering, his suffering So you practice deep breathing again, to restore to her. And looking at him or her or holding his hand, is why I am here for you." It is a very important mantra, it will relieve Before you do anything, your true presence the other person. And what the other person needs the most when And you know that you can offer him that, do that, just mindful breathing, mindful walking, No matter how young you are you can do it, The fourth mantra, is the most difficult of little bit you will be able to do it. The fourth mantra is practice when you yourself you love the most, that has made you suffer. The fourth mantra is like this, "Darling, But many people cannot do it, because of the Yes, if another person said that to you, or but it is exactly the person you love the said that to you, that is why you suffer so You believe that your suffering has been caused that is why it's so hard for you. You get hurt very deeply, and your pride prevents prefer to lock yourself in your room and cry You want to tell him or her that you don't suffer, and that is the effect of pride. If pride is there, it means that your love or her, and that when you suffer you have a lover is for that. (Bell Rings) There is a story that happened in my country's young couple, who suffered just because of The young husband had to go to the army, to pregnant, but three years later he was released His wife went to the gate of the village to when they met, they cry a lot, and their tears They felt very thankful to the ancestors, so that they have a family reunion. So according to our tradition, we have to the lady was asked to go to the market to an offering, to be placed on the altar of In the meantime, the young father took care persuade the little boy to call him daddy, But the little boy refused, "No sir you My daddy used to come every night, and my often cry, and every time my mother sat down, And when the young father heard that, he felt that there was a person who has intervened So is heart became a kind of stone, he himself When the lady came home, he did not look at She did not know why, she suffered, but she And after the offering had been placed on lighted the incense, offered the incense to But when you pay respect to the Buddha, only you make four prostrations, that's in the And after having made four prostrations, he to do the same. In his mind he believed that his wife was of the ancestors. So his wife got hurt deeply, did not understand, days, three or four days. And finally the young lady could not bear That night, when the young father lighted boy shouted, "Here! Here is my daddy!" So he pointed at the shadow of his father, my daddy used to come every night like this, cry with him a lot. And every time my mother sat down, he sat In fact, the lady used to talk to her own husband too much, "Darling, you have been the child and take care of the child?" and So she cried with her own shadow, and of course down also. Now, the young father understood, but now If the father, had gone to the mother and boy said that a person used to come every him, and everytime he sat down you also sat Who is that person?" If the young father had gone and asked his opportunity to explain and both could have That is because of the pride in him, and the she was deeply hurt, because of the attitude But she did not come to him and ask for his mantra, "Darling, my husband, I suffer so I don't understand the reason why you don't allow me to make the four prostrations before Have I done anything wrong? Please tell me, please help." If she had done that, and then the husband but she had not done that, because she was And you know that in true love, there is no So I want my friends here, not to fall into get hurt by the person you love the most. When you suffer, and when you believe that by the person you love the most in your life, Don't do like the father of the little boy, don't let pride stand in your way. You have to go to that person and ask for mantra, "Darling, I suffer, please help," you love the most in this life and then you And then when the other person hears that, back to herself, and practice looking deeply. And then both of you will be able to sort what we would call a wrong perception. Because in our daily life, we might be caught We are humans, we make mistakes all the time, have to be aware of that. Sometimes we think of turning right, but we said turn right, but in fact we have said And when we listen without mindfulness, concentration So the Buddha said, that wrong perceptions that is why we have to be very careful, not Maybe you may like to write in calligraphy, it on your wall (audience laughs), as a bell (Bell Rings) I know that when you open your heart, and you, you can relate to the people around you, is born in you. It brings you a lot of relief, it brings you When we are able to generate the energy of suffer much less. And in order for compassion, and loving kindness When you look at these children, deeply, you father, they are yourself. And then to act in the name of love, of compassion The hatred, the anger we have, concerning to be peaceful. But if we practice looking deeply into the suffers quite a lot. That person does not know where to go, this to be happy, but is not really happy. He's looking for happiness in the suffering, and maybe you are the one, the only one that And if you have that kind of insight, suddenly heart, and you will suffer much less. The insight as the fruit of your practice and Buddhist meditation is described as mindful You live deeply every moment of your life, looking deeply. Being there helps you to touch and to look is there, there is no longer any difficulty If you practice being there in the present deeply each moment of your daily life. You will be able to get the insight about you think to be the cause of your suffering. And then you will see that that person is person needs you to be transformed. And suddenly the nectar of of compassion is that is the Holy Spirit, that is god. God is available to you 24 hours a day. (Bell Rings) May I learn to look at myself with the eyes May I be able to recognize and touch the seeds May I learn to identify and see the source We know that after having practice, taking to change the word, "I" into, "he" But we do not do that unless we have realized within ourselves. Because we know that self-love is the foundation So after I and then he or she as a person is the person we are very fond of, he or she finally he or she, that I consider to be the The children in Uganda, the victims of war the native village of my mother maybe considered But if you have some time, touching them deeply, neutral to you. They see that they are yourself, and suddenly And these people will cease to be so called object of your love, and then finally you enemy, the person has made you suffer a lot. And with the practice of deep touching and of your love also. But first of all, may I learn to look at myself Many people cannot accept themselves, they they want to run away from themselves. Because they have not been with themselves, touched themselves deeply. Practicing looking deeply into oneself, and within oneself. One will be able to accept oneself and to Know yourself, connect (inaudible), that is If we look deeply into ourselves, we find and then we accept ourselves with our suffering, And we know that to love is first to accept she is or he is. And looking deeply, we see how that person It is like a flower is made only of non-flower that are not him, his ancestors, his parents, So once we see deeply, all the conditions to accept him or her like that, and to begin In the teaching of the Buddha, it is clear If you don't understand you cannot love, other it is not possible for them to love each other, they would not be able to love To understand is to see all the difficulties, is having, also, the aspiration, the hope If you ignore the suffering, the difficulties, you love him or her? So, you may need the other person in order So as a true lover, we can always go to the I want to love you, and make you happy, but help." When you love someone and if you do not understand This always true, if father loving his son, son suffer, and that is why a father as a son, do you think I understand you enough? Is my love making you suffer?" And husband has to ask the wife the same question, other person. Our love may be a prison for him or for her, had enough understanding of the person we And understanding is the fruit of looking practice looking deeply, you won't understand. So the practice of mindfulness helps us to other person. And as we practice we need a sangha, we need really want to love you and make you happy, Tell me what is in your heart, tell me your is making you happy or unhappy." That is the language of true love, and we You need the other person in order to love That is also a treaty that the two people each other's help, pride cannot stand in our Prajna is understanding, and maitri Whenever there is maitri there is understanding, is maitri, whenever there is maitri there So we have to understand the other person, own pain, suffering, and difficulties, and The other person may be your son, your daughter, We have to practice looking deeply in order we will need his help, or her help to understand (Bell Rings) May I be free from disturbance, fear, anxiety, There are things in us that disturb us, that Like our anxiety, our worry, you worry too don't know what will happen to us, tomorrow And the Buddha said that the future has not only one moment when you can be truly alive, If we practice looking deeply into the present is made of the past moment. And the present moment is the substance with the present moment, we can touch the past, In this teaching, we can repair the past, of the present, and if we touch the present teaching. Suppose in the past I said something not very now she is no longer there and I carry with in the present, and if I touch the present, So touching deeply the present, I breathe said, "I'm sorry, please enjoy breathing I promise I will never do that to another When we practice like that we can see that healed, just because you have the capacity past. You can always begin anew with the present to worrying about the future, because touching will only be made of the present moment. The best way to take care of the future, is is nothing more you can do then taking care So if you know the art of taking good care worry about the future. Because you know very well that your worry, Focus on the present moment, live deeply the in order to take the best care of the present You cannot do more than you can do, the present of. Walking, you have to walk deeply, drinking water in such a way that you have peace, that assured. If someone who is close to you, is no longer You suffer not only because of the fact that in the past you have not done what should you suffer so much. And therefore, taking care good care of the don't have to worry, we just have to go of it, we know what to do in the present moment Sometimes we quarrel for the sake of the future, don't agree with each other on making plans Suppose you are having a fight with the person or the future, and you don't want to see Because you are angry at him or at her, the deep breathing and visualize you and the other And after three breathings like that, you very differently (audience laughs). The only thing you want to do at that moment hugging meditation (audience laughs). Hugging meditation is a practice of mindfulness, "I know the person I love is still alive so happy," and if you breathe deeply like of care, of love, the mindfulness will petrate nourished, and she will bloom like a flower. And you know that you have to do anything him happy, and not wait until tomorrow. So your projects about future is no longer It's taking care of the present, that is the presence of the full moon, of the morning standing in front of you. This is our practice, and if you follow that your worries, your anxieties about future. And caught in the suffering concerning the The teaching of the Buddha is simple, not (Bell Rings) Transcript by plumvillage.org/donate