- [Computer Voice] This video - [Narrator] On January of people attending an Apple the personal computer speak. After an hour of boring a clean cut, confident where he had taken this new a three and a half inch floppy and boldly announced, &quot;Today, I'd like to let Macintosh This is what it said. - [Computer Voice] &quot;Hello, I am Macintosh. It sure is great out of that bag. Unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I'd like to share with the first time I am met an IBM mainframe, never trust a computer you can't lift. Obviously, I can talk, but right now, I'd like to sit back and listen. So it is with considerable a man and who's been like - [Narrator] The people who with the Apple II saw But for the rest, it was almost as if Apple II had created they created life, a concept in the Jetsons 10 years Just a couple of hours what this device was, only millions of people when at the 1984 Super Bowl through an even more It was just Macintosh. - We shall prevail. (light erupting) (people vocalizing) - [Narrator] This was a as a company. They had a new focus of challenging the corporate computer conglomerate, IBM. It was taking over the world. Apple was different. The Macintosh was going to be a computer by the people for the people, and that's what this commercial anybody could use with literally rather than through some that seemingly only the most a computer even children could use. When the Breakfast Club was in Shermer, Illinois, Sean his ninth birthday with playing on Mac Paint. At a superficial glance, the looks over 10 years ahead of its time. It's honestly insane that as this could have even but as the Apple II users saw at the time, this was the smoke and mirrors talking. Despite all this, the Macintosh Steve Jobs thought it would. Instead, it sort of just dwindled away, but not how you would expect. Macintosh, with its of butterfly effects, both detrimental, and extremely culturally It took so much away, but This is a machine with a story filled with as many complexities a story which blurs the line between computer folklore and fact. (light erupting) This is the story of Macintosh, and you'll see why 1984 (spectral music) Getting a Macintosh would've back in 1984, but what's even and you have a chance to Omaze does giveaways of incredible prizes and experiences while donating all around the world. The Model X is Tesla's most sought after, top of the line flagship It is unmatched in versatility and power with its all new interior and 1,020 horsepower. Out camping? Sit back under the stars and on a 17 inch cinematic display, I can just picture myself watching Austin Powers right now, peak humanity. Donations help support allowing them to spend and more time on serving the These charities are GivePower is committed to around the world who don't have access to clean drinking water, to provide clean water, to communities all around the world. 501CTHREE is dedicated finding solutions that will help us fight climate and more sustainable future For your chance to win a Model go to omaze.com/nationsquid. The early phases of at a time where technological The '80s didn't enjoy to but also in computing, with a little machine called the Apple II. Although not technically it was unique and revolutionary enough to be widely considered the very first personal Not only was the Apple II now at the top of the computing world, to the big leagues, and for personal computers as a Several big companies the next big personal computer, and not too long after, someone did. In 1981, a company that had since the end of World a company so big that to becoming a monopoly derogatorily nicknamed Big Here enters the IBM PC, a in comparison to everything It would become the first PC and it only took them a few months. Apple might have been riding for quite some time, but and this was a wake-up call. The Apple II was already four years old, and small upgrades wasn't The company was no longer number one, and they had to act fast Apple had to innovate once again. The IBM's launch marked a second Steve Jobs was determined to create the third industry standard machine. Priority was now placed on a on for a few years, the Apple Lisa. This was going to be the because it surrounded a brilliant concept. What if you could get everything done with just the click of a button? Of course we are talking about the mouse and the desktop environment, Knowing all these no longer necessary to operate a computer. You could just click what you Jobs had gotten the idea in 1979 after visiting Xerox California, where he had a computer from 1973 with But considering that the Alto was $32,000 not adjusted for inflation, obviously, hardly anyone The idea was still up in the air in terms of its practicality. Jobs wanted to change that with the Lisa. Now everyday businesses without having to spend months on learning code and reading manuals. The concept was brilliant, it wouldn't take long to enter the picture. Jobs was very difficult to work so much so that he was Disagreement over how the and how it should be priced led to a very Game of Thrones maneuver. Steve Jobs would lead his own project, and recruit his own the computer he wanted to with the Lisa on who could Jobs resurrected a dormant the Macintosh, a project created in 1979 by Apple co-founder Steve The name came from a Macintosh Apple, and he of making a computer and aimed at the everyday person. This would be the perfect The big selling point for the Lisa was its easy-to-use desktop environment, but what if you could make it even easier, so easy that anyone could use it, including your 85 year old grandmother, a computer that would word processor, graphics by Microsoft, and it Steve Jobs took the boldest marketing risk you could possibly make, and made his target audience everyone, trying to solve everyone's problems, while also solving problems people didn't even know existed yet. The Macintosh was born, that this would be the third industry standard for computing. - Today, one year after the third industry milestone (audience cheering) - [Narrator] Completely which had just become the of all time, with its GUI and mouse, the Macintosh would Jobs was so confident in Mac's future, he convinced Pepsi president because of how much he admired Sculley's marketing capabilities, where Jobs reportedly said to him, &quot;Do you wanna sell sugared or do you wanna come with The Lisa proved to be a With its slow speeds, poor design, and a market price of $10,000, This only gave Jobs a bigger advantage, because the Macintosh would but much cheaper, and more efficient. Jobs' decision to bring on People were excited Jobs was so determined on that nothing else mattered, including how practical the Macintosh was, and this would be deeply The Mac's launch did anything The media was projecting before in the history of computers, and at the start, that is what they got. But when the machine to truly reveal itself, the and things took a sharp turn. With how development went, that the Macintosh was actually none other than a deeply flawed machine. The headstrong leadership from with an overconfident design, slightly misleading marketing campaign, high cost, and lack of a There is a bit of an arrogant and that is intentional. I mean, its whole existence a multinational corporation, and becoming a household product. The Macintosh knew it was the but did it actually have Although Apple thought at the time that this was a selling user expectations, only The Macintosh, in many a personification of Steve Jobs himself. He really did see this as but a work of art. The inside casing even of everyone involved in its development, like a signature on a painting. It was an overconfident machine, of Jobs' overconfidence The problems that caused the Lisa's downfall strongly parallel the issues present on the Macintosh, Jobs focusing more on form than function, wanting to create a beautiful machine in a time where that technologically When Apple II engineers told him that his ideas would of the machine, he wouldn't of thinking that got him but he only continued doing He wanted the computer to be silent, so it did not include a fan, to overheating from the simplest task. Because of this and the the computer was nicknamed This design choice created a machine that was severely underpowered and slow, even for 1984 standards. Not only was its cooling at least for what it was designed to do. Back in 1984, people were excited about the idea mainstream Most computers like the IBM or the Commodore were either These companies all wanted to create 32-bit personal computers, The Macintosh was a 32-bit computer, and this was actually quite a but it wasn't the full story. The Macintosh had a 32-bit processor, but a 16-bit data path, of the CPU could only operate So while the Macintosh could technically call itself a 32-bit system, not to mention that the of memory was more suited All this technical stuff but what you really need to that weren't very compatible. It was the computer equivalent and what you got was a slow, with an identity crisis. (computer buzzing) And the worst part was if you wanted to upgrade Everything was soldered This was a huge deal. As far back as the 1970s, computers were all about upgradeability. At that time, most people just bought the parts they needed, Every PC was unique, until the Apple II came along and commercialized prebuilt machines. These values still People who bought prebuilt often put in their own parts over time. So what was even the if you couldn't upgrade it? Where is the personal All Jobs did was take the Lisa's problems and the problems he and then simplify them. Nearly all the creative into the Macintosh were things that the Lisa team specifically It took big steps backwards to be the computer of the future. Steve Jobs unmoved thinking with building the Macintosh permeated Being overconfident in its design, the Macintosh was also The marketing of the the most honest, and and were following the right through this. The Macintosh campaign had A lot of people thought this was because Apple wanted to hide the fact that they didn't want to Broken parts meant only meaning more money for Apple. Apple's excuse was that customization really Apple was now focusing like the Lisa, and less which felt like a step back. I mean, they all saw how the Lisa went, so they weren't exactly in high faiths about having the Macintosh just Apple computers were no like they used to be, and to divert people from that kind of thinking, Apple essentially over-delivered The commercials really of different programs to really emphasize how easy it is to use, but the computer only MacWrite and MacPaint. Everything else had to and you only had a handful of options compared to other computers at that time. And as we talked about, the computer's memory for the programs, so a about slow performance. The Mac's demo at Apple's a perfect example of this deception. The computer you are the original Macintosh at all. It's the 512K Macintosh, which wouldn't launch Even Jobs new that the on the actual device, But that wasn't the so was the part that blew everyone away. - [Computer Voice] Hello, I'm Macintosh. - [Narrator] The speaking through a program called MacSpeak, also known more commonly as MacinTalk. As breathtaking as it was, text-to-speech software wasn't I mean, the Speak and Spell was created by Texas Instruments just which you could buy for $50 MacinTalk was derived from an already existing But what if you wanted it to say full on sentences, paragraphs? That's why it was so cool to It gave the Macintosh a personality. The original plan was to include MacinTalk in the system folder and have it shipped in all Macs on the day of its launch. Unfortunately, this never happened. A big reason for why Steve Jobs used the prototype 512K MAC for the demo was because the actual Macintosh The memory was too low. MacinTalk wouldn't be a big until the 512K machines so the big selling point something Apple wasn't even selling. When reality set in, less people Apple suffered a little While Apple recognized the wants and needs of the average person, the average person's salary. The Macintosh was priced but was still very expensive Jobs wanted to make the but was at a bit of a war with Sculley. Because the Super Bowl Sculley raised the price to Jobs would cite this as a huge reason for why the Macintosh didn't sell well. No one wanted to buy a personal computer that expensive, especially when its true capabilities - Apple computers are very low powered, and very highly priced, and that's true of all Apple products. - [Narrator] When combining you are left with a product that lacked any practical Software was very limited, and the things that were available weren't particularly useful at the time. A graphics editor was and less cool when it's The Commodore 64, IBM PC, Tandy 1000, and even the Apple II more software support, were upgradeable, and were even in color. Why get a Macintosh when you could buy one of these other machines and customization at a Now, the Macintosh didn't die, but its sales were nowhere It didn't just put itself Their objective to tackle IBM failed. Higher ups at Apple were quick Jobs blamed it on the high price. Sculley blamed it on Jobs. His unrealistic thinking, his employees put him to blame. Sculley wanted to create more Jobs wanted to give Because of this entire out of the company by the board in 1985, or voluntarily left, depending on whose side you're on. Jobs was now out of but this didn't discourage him. Although creating the third industry standard he was determined to get and create the next In fact, that was the name of his new company, NeXT, - And we decided we that had a lot to do with higher education, - [Narrator] Now, the full and Jobs' time away from Apple will be its own separate video, a general summary for now. In 1985, Apple was very divided. You had Team Sculley, NeXT was the company created by Team Jobs to directly compete with - That's exactly my point. We've got a person here a word processor in six months. It's taken three years. - Well, George, I can't What do you want me to do? What's the solution? Yeah, I mean, I don't wanna last time, we're gonna blow it this time. (overlapping speech) What I want is probably irrelevant. - [Narrator] Instead NeXT was creating highly-advanced not aimed at people, but highly-funded This would eliminate the high cost problem that the Macintosh had. The computers would have and simulations, and run called NeXTSTEP. The NeXT computers didn't sell NeXTSTEP was insanely of the GUI, and its use of This is why it could run Eventually, NeXT would of computers, and exclusively Because he was working with Jobs wanted to explore the He would go on to purchase a company from George Lucas called The company name would and for the next decade would exclusively using 3D animation. During all of this, Apple Their innovation was gone, on making remedial upgrades all throughout the 1990s. It wasn't clear that Apple by the millennium. - The art festival, sheesh! It was sponsored by that - What computers? (Homer groans) - [Reporter] With big with profit margins shrinking, Apple seems destined for a takeover. - [Narrator] Sculley had and it was clear that Jobs was doing much better without them. And in the most desperate of decisions, Apple bought Jobs back in 1997. They would acquire all the rights to the NeXTSTEP software, His first order of business, In order to compete with during the prevalence of the internet, Jobs replaced with a new version founded on NeXTSTEP. The iMac was born, and Apple would only go uphill from there. Because of the original Macintosh sucking, we now have Toy Story What was originally and called nothing more than ended up becoming the in human history. The Macintosh was both It was both ahead of But as its parts grow old, The message was now clear. Computers could not be confusing anymore if they wanted to get more powerful. The only way to maximize by maximizing their audience of people who can share all new information, to be and forward-thinking, to be Macintosh, the computer for the rest of us. - [Computer Voice] Be sure to for a chance to win a Tesla Model X. Shut the hell down. - [Computer Voice] Thank If you enjoyed watching, please subscribe and click notification a future video.