-Hey, it's Zeke, I'm on a yacht, and I'm finding out -What we found out what was going in there -Why do you think the rich -Because they want to stay rich. -They bring in a child, -You know, they'll kill for a can of green beans. -Go to Bohemian Grove. Try to get in -I really want Dear celestial being which I may but I'm starting to believe in because things are getting Here. There's a body. [Bleep] May I ask you -Yeah, I just paid $685,000. -To give you an idea of price -- -Jesus. I would love to hold Are you rich? -I mean, what do you define The price of this one -Is there ever enough money? Here we go! Ha ha ha! -Are doomsday preppers right? ...brink of a worldwide crisis. Mysterious monoliths Gun taxes... -As clickbait headlines I'm spiraling down the rabbit On this episode -- It's one letter, but it spells with President Trump -This person may have believed is this idea of the reptilian -Maybe they think there are that could be used That was a popular rumor. all over the news recently, to a shadowy elite class -- the Illuminati, wealthy people who meet making backroom deals After hours of searching I came across of these secretive societies -- and their annual where the ultra wealthy meet in a private event. In the year 2000, famed conspiracy theorist and secretly recorded the events I had to know what they saw. So we met up with his who also snuck in with him. -What we found out is unbelievable. This is how I can -Okay. This is not anything This is a 40-foot stone And these people dress up in robes and hoods, and they bring in a child -A real child they bring in? -I don't know. -If somebody told me about this, I would have said, -Who are these people? -Anybody of any significance They control the media. It's what you call They're setting up You are the cattle out there. You know, you are the slaves. They want enough people just to be able to serve them. 10% would be enough for them where they can enjoy the Earth and kill And the rest of the 10% serve them drinks or whatever. You try to get a story you're not gonna get it, but that's what's good There's a lot of bad things but what's good They're being exposed. Mike pulled up his footage, which showed the club's annual -How do you get to the... Yeah, you've got to go back I don't know how to use this. -Okay, get to the Internet. -This is a 40-foot And this symbolizes the devil. So you got people and all your movie stars mostly. They are worshiping the devil, and they are sacrificing... a baby...in effigy. What sane person does this? Would your family do this -As it turns out, I might have During the course it came to light that was a prominent I found his home recordings what I think is of the same ceremony Alex Jones This is never-before-seen This, like, performance is called the Cremation of Care, and this is what Alex Jones and And they, at one point, Here. There's a body. They're pulling I mean, a fake body, I think. I mean, look, there it goes. Boom. And then they light it on fire. Mike Hanson believed it was But this one looked like I don't think they're but it's just Even the thought why are you burning the body? What's the -- You know, It's just kind of eerie. You can see they've That's kind of cool. But this makes me also think, I've got descendants Am I part Am I an unknowing pawn What can we do as, like, -Okay, pray to God that where everybody will have to do what it takes You know, that's what I do. -Dear celestial being which but I'm starting to believe in because things are getting Give me the strength to expose evildoers who are... rearranging our world into some where we're all because they're not they're interested in souls. As member of the media, to expose the shenanigans So I flew to the West Coast to see if I can break We want some answers. We're gonna go There's the gate What's going on in there?! I want some answers! The signs outside warn but I thought I could fool them Alright. -Um... -It's -- it's trees. But even from the air, Those clever, rich people -Lots of trees. Yeah. It was clear that this mission needed to be accomplished so I called my supervisor to see to infiltrate the premises. Sergio, it's Zeke. Man, um, Sergio, I don't think the New World Order that is Sergio, come on. Alright, we've got -- We got to Fuck! Fuck! As much as I wanted to trespass, I had to find another source. Who are these people? Thankfully, Mary Moore, an activist mentioned -I got all the experts -...lived 5 miles down the road and had been collecting for almost four decades. So I decided to pay her visit. Hi, Mary, how are you? -Yeah? Okay, come on in. What a cool spot you have. -In addition to being Mary is also documenting everything to, well, um, everything. Wow. -This is the civil-rights era This is just all of her binders. Actually, this is half of them So she archives, um, in the newspaper. -But she categorizes them. So it's any article anything she prints out, um... like by -- -The coronavirus. -I would get calls from people saying, &quot;Is Alex I'd -- &quot;No, no, no.&quot; Alex Jones claims and that kind of thing. And so that was So twice a day up there they have lakeside talks. And these are major talks given by world figures, Those are talks that you and I because they come from people We have a right I don't care if they get up You know? I mean, fine. It's the effect that they're that is what we've been from the beginning. -Why do you think the rich -Because they want to stay rich. It's all about staying rich -Mary seemed to suggest rather than nefarious rituals, for the rich's Although Mike Hanson The devil has little time left. -...to really test out I had to meet some rich people It's really amazing these days between hashtags I met up with a group in Miami most of us dream about but few get invited -It's cool how the gold just There's one piece. -Here's one piece. So I'm in, like, stocks, like, three lines Yeah, my parents came from money my own little venues -While Max came from money, was able to build his own hit -So, like, my family, like, was, like, upper-middle class. Like, you know, Like, I didn't have to go like, my parents, just, like, or, like, Like, my parents so I didn't have to buy -To get below I hung out with the guys to see what they were about. We're gonna go meet up and they have a bunch with really nice cars and they're gonna drive because that's what you do. You get together and you drive -Oh, we do this all the time. We do, like, We'll either go hit Hard Rock, and meet at my buddy's place. -We'll do, like, Hard Rock to South Beach, -Just in a procession -Yeah. The cops will pull us all over. Like, they just don't like us all, like, rolling in this big, -I mean, a lot of people like, fake the flex, but, like, Like, we actually live it, You know, we're not and, like, here for the weekend. -Max not only owned And so this is your car here? -This is your, uh, That's, uh, Which, it's -- I don't know if you want to -Yeah, exactly. -Unlike the secretive nature these guys were pretty flashy I went with them to shop that were anything but subtle. -This watch with a rainbow $750,000. -In this case, is going to be So right now, around $170,000. And then over here, $550,000. Can I hold that? -Can I -- I would love to hold Most people buy watches, It's a utility, right? -It's like, you know -- But, like... -People will be like, &quot;Sinking that much money But a lot of the watches like, significantly. And now that it's more demand it's just gotten crazier. So I'm not, like, sitting back &quot;Billy Madison.&quot; but I'm not, like, sitting there just waiting for money I'm, like, putting my money -Can I ask you how much -Yeah, I just paid $685,000. But these cars can go up -While Max claims these luxury in actuality, What happened to that -- We were driving yesterday What happened to your Lambo -Just a little incident. We saw some puddles So excited to try to, like, and, uh, I guess that didn't -Are you worried about -- is their investment, Are you worried about -No, I don't even know would show up, but the Urus, honestly I'll probably -Okay. that I'm gonna keep -What about this one? -I'm gonna keep this one Unless they come out with another crazier SVJ this one's a keeper, for sure. -Is it possible I can take it [ Engine starts ] Whoo! Holy shit. Alright. Go to put this guy down. -Oh, my God. The car's price tag freaked me out a little bit, I switched seats with Max Holy shit, holy shit. Part of it seems like You guys just like -It's fun. Last time I was at Atlantis -- Last time I was at Atlantis -- I made it all back, and then I tipped so much Tipped, like, $1,000, $2,000. and went back up Yeah, it's awesome. &quot;Yeah, I want to go buy this or go on this yacht, like, Like, it's just nice -And, yeah, that's literally He booked a yacht. -Probably, like, a big, like, How much is that going for Okay. -As we set sail, These guys just want But what about power? I wondered So I decided to ask Max Any future in politics for you, -No, I don't think I'll 'cause I kind of hate I kind of just, and kind of, like, dodge -Ultimately, these guys with anything No New World Order Being rich seemed like a dream. You could get whatever and access to money made it easy Who gives a shit when you could just party These guys make being rich And then I thought, So let's go back to the top. [ Tape rewinding ] On this episode -- Yeah, baby. -That's the thing It's been one of the greatest -There are now over worth $25 million or more. -On the news, It seems like during the pandemic, Now that I knew that being rich In fact, it's in vogue -- I decided to figure out and I looked at what I was told real estate. Surely a small studio apartment would provide an affordable Hello. Oh, my gosh. -Hey, nice to meet you, Zeke. -Alright. Come on in. As you'll see, even though it's the space here lends it and attractive layout. This is a built-in custom All of a sudden... Dun dun dun da -Wow. -Cool. It's a pretty deep tub. You don't find tubs like that -Yes. Having a soaker tub that's pretty cool -Cool. -So definitely a comfortable You can imagine yourself no question about it. This leads out which is fully covered. kitchen, home office, and a sleeping area, because, mind you, but there's maximum impact here. -Cool. Now that I'd seen I was prepared to look and see how much money -The price of this one -So in order to -- number-wise 20 -- What is it, 20% -So in this building, you are which is another incentive, -So you need -- -Exactly. Wow. While the apartment sure, yeah, who can afford for almost a million dollars? I mean, this thing Even for the smallest corner I needed $85,000 just to start. Okay, cool. My dream of being rich by a feeling As I spiraled out once again, Across the political landscape, there's been an almost uniform in favor of populism. -You know, when they talk they talk about the elite, Do you ever see the elite? You're the elite. -Mike Bloomberg owns more wealth than the bottom -The single biggest lie that Republicans -While this type of rhetoric the power brokers don't seem to be despite the pleas and the possible repercussions But if the wheels really started to fall off, Maybe not, because they may Okay, once more from the top, On this episode, when the disenfranchised and comes for your money. Rising S Company to help those who can afford it -If you knew some of the people it'd make you scratch your head, and try to figure out how -Gary showed me and allowed me to see that was currently -This shelter here I'm show you, sending to the Upper Midwest. Got bunk room -- four bunks. -And then if you look here, if you'll turn the camera I'll open that latch. -Oh, it's a secret latch? -Yes. Oh, whoa. Oh, wow, there's more. [ Laughs ] -Some people This guy has a walk-in gun safe. -This part of the bunker -Yeah. Yeah. -You know, if you had to close it behind you this is where you want This will be -Okay. -You'll have 135 cameras -Okay, -And they'll all be monitored -Okay. Okay. How much would a unit like this -Well, you got to remember, there's a lot that's going et cetera of it, but you're gonna be -$600,000 range. Okay. It's still cheaper in New York City. -So...[ Laughs ] So it's, I don't know, I guess. Well, if you're comparing it And it's quieter. -Gary then took me some 3-D tours that had already been completed. -Let's go into this one. You'll notice the first thing is show us a dollhouse view. -This particular customer, they sent me &quot;Will you build this?&quot; See these hooks -Mm-hmm. to put a pool table out here in the middle -A pool table in the shelter. -Cool. That's sick. What's the most you guys -What's the most odd? -Odd? Sure, -Horses underground. -Horse -- a horse stable -A horse stable underground. -That is very cool. -Done a bowling alley before -Okay, so send you You don't have to go down That's a lot of -- -Just the bowling-alley will add around $175,000 -Cool. -Cool. Very cool. What's the most expensive -It's probably in the $14 -Okay. -Very cool. People get a shelter But what would you say -Civil unrest. -Protection of civil unrest. What exactly does that mean? -Civil unrest would be brought an economic collapse. I mean, we're $29 trillion I mean, at some point, you know, -Mm-hmm. -The food-stamp cards Those people aren't gonna and watch their kids You know, they'll kill for a can of green beans. -You know, I just -- what the -- the game plan is. And we're never gonna because we're not part of that pulls those -- those -That makes sense. Yeah. Perhaps the Bohemian Club about secret societies Rich people don't care about you or even really the status quo. They really just want The inferred exclusivity is actually a byproduct where they couldn't unless there's something Whether it's the grove gathering or living underground the rich have inadvertently and this could be problematic because whether money is power, you must Otherwise, at some point, those who don't have power -There's a composting toilet. -Okay. -Alex looks like hell now. He used to look like But all this stress just like it's got to me. -At least I'm not under He is under so much stress. He has, like, got the world on -Yeah. -Mm-hmm.