What makes handwriting messy? Well, what's the font of your handwriting? See, it's a dumb question that has no answer. Or is it? If we can't turn our handwriting into a font, how did we get from writing on paper to writing on computers? Well, turns out there are answers to those questions. And if you write two lines out on a piece of paper right now, I can guarantee you I can tell you scientifically what makes your handwriting so messy and maybe even what font your handwriting is, too. Let's start by looking at the ends of your letters and let's compare it to a classic font. Time's New Roman. Take a closer look. Do you see those little hook thingies on the ends of those letters? Those are called serifs, and they're older than your mother. And everyone else's mother on earth. They were invented by the Romans when they carved out stone way back in an age called Roman antiquity. And because it's so old and came out of a fancy sounding time called along with the fact that most people don't add these little hooks and caps to the ends of letters, serifs are associated with class and power far away from the common folk. While this is the first step to finding out what font your handwriting is, it's not really relevant to how neat or messy your handwriting is, since most people don't write serifs consistently anyways. But if you write serifs everywhere, your handwriting might look a little cluttered. Anyways, on to the good stuff. Let's move on from looking at letters to look at a word. Just one word and just one pair of letters you wrote. Are they squished together or are they spread apart? This is what typographers call kerning, the space between two letters. If they're spaced out, you'd have handwriting that has wide kerning and narrow kerning if it's the other way. Maybe you're a psychopath and write letters on top of each other. Then you'd have negative kerning. I don't think I need to tell you why people who write with negative kerning handwriting is messy. Duplicate your kerning a bunch of times and then you'll get tracking. How letters and words are spaced across a line of text. Duplicate it again and write a few more lines and you get leading. How close or far lines are apart from each other. Altogether, these three guys make up what we call spacing. Spacing is one of the main culprits of terrible handwriting. If the letters are too packed together, then it's impossible to read. But if they're spread out too far, it's also impossible to read. And if they're spaced perfectly, they're also really awkward to read. This is because our brain actually reads in chunks of space and text, and not words. If your spacing is too narrow, then there's way more information in that same chunk of space that people need to process. If your spacing is too wide, the letters feel disconnected from each other and it's impossible to tell what's actually going on. And as for the perfect kerning here? Well, there's actually no kerning here. The kerning of letters begins at the left side of the rightmost stroke of the letter, not at the end of the letter. All of that is just to say that if your handwriting looks like chicken scratch, it's probably because you've squashed the spacing in too narrowly or too wide. Fixing it is easy. Just reverse the error in the other direction. Anyways, can we get to something a bit simpler? Speaking of, thanks so much for all the support on the channel lately. It really means a lot and I want to give something back to you guys. So do you need a job? That sounded a bit weird. But whether you're a UX designer, app developer, freelancer, or just a curious viewer, I want to get to know you guys, share some UX and UI tips, and maybe even get a gig. So I made a Discord channel for us and want to make this THE place to be for front-end professionals. And I'm having talks with people to get some employers in there so you can connect with them too and find some jobs in the future. I'm really excited to get this thing started, so I hope you'll join me. Your lowercase letters should be shorter, or in other words, lowercase, than your uppercase letters. That's pretty obvious. But why? Well, look at your lowercase letters. Now stretch all of them to make them the same height as your uppercase letters. Yeah, that looks awful, doesn't it? What we just did was alter what's known as the X height, which refers to the height of the lowercase X in a given typeface, but more broadly, describes the height of all lowercase letters that don't have ascenders or descenders--more on those later. X height is the second dictator of legibility. It helps your brain organize the text as you're reading it, so if your lowercase letters are too big, too small, or have no pattern at all, people are probably going to say your handwriting looks messy or disorganized. Then we have the tall lowercase letters--G, P, Q, D, T, etc. All these guys with things sticking out over or under the X height line. These guys are the exceptions, since they're supposed to violate the X height. In fact, if they don't, then your handwriting won't be as messy as it is more just strange. I mean, look at how awkward having all your lowercase A's and your E's being the same height as your T's and your L's. On top of that, with certain letters, like Y, the end of the stroke goes to the left while you're trying to write from left to right, which means that you need to get from point A to point B somehow. There's no real judgment on this side, really, as long as your little flourish at the end, called the terminal, is consistent. Imagine if you end one of your Y's with a blunt end and the next with three swirls. That would just be a pain in the ass to read. And then we have the trickiest part of it all--the overhang, where rounded letters are displaced ever so slightly against the X height or the baseline to make sure everything looks perfect and neat. But this is more a thing for advanced fonts and typography. But who knows? Maybe you're subconsciously doing that too? And wait, what's a baseline? The baseline is the bottom, where the ascenders and descenders ascend and descend from, and what all those lines on lined paper are supposed to be there for. For normal people, this baseline is horizontal. But if you're like me and your sentences fly into the sky all the time, then your baseline is crooked. It looks really weird and you should probably fix it. I mean, there's a reason why there's never been a font where a baseline hasn't been horizontal, or vertical for some Asian languages. It looks ridiculous, like you pulled the paper out of the printer as it was coming out and the letters came out looking all woobly. But at the end of the day, a slanted baseline with nicely spaced and sized letters will always look neater than one that's smushed together with a perfect baseline, so it's not that important. Now combine a slanted baseline with inconsistent kerning and everything else, and you've hit the illegible jackpot. All you need to do now is go to your capital letters. If the baseline is the bottom, then the cap height is the top. It's the highest any of your letters will go and it designates the cap on the height of your capital letters. Remember the tracking thing we were talking about earlier? That's the space between lines of text? Well, the tracking is typically just the space between the baseline of one line and the cap line of the next. The x height also typically respects the cap line by being a proportion of its height. So if your cap line is too short but you don't adjust the width of your text, you'll end up with some really short and fat letters. And if you don't adjust the x height, then you'll end up with something like this. All that's to say, capital letters are important and need to stand out. If your cap height is your x height, your handwriting will either be extremely messy or look like you're yelling at someone. Try reading all caps in a calligraphic style like Fractor and you'll realize what I mean. Speaking of calligraphy, what about cursive? Cursive follows the same rules as print handwriting. Kerning, leading, spacing, height, cap, etc. Except the only difference is that in cursive, the letters are connected. So the kerning is more like the negative space in between the letters than the actual space between the letters. But there's one thing that's important in cursive that's not really important in print writing. The letters in cursive should have just the tiniest bit more darker than the lines connecting them. If you don't believe me, take a piece of handwriting in cursive and make it all the same weight. It's kind of hard to tell what's what and it just results in a very overwhelming picture for the eyes. Writing cursive too fast could also lead you to just fuse two letters together in what's called a ligature. On a limited basis it's cool and saves you time, but do it too much and your handwriting starts looking strange. Overdo it and you'll have doctor handwriting, where the entire word or an entire sentence is just one flat line, which transcends the realm of messy to the realm of complete incomprehensibility. Combine that with the slant that sometimes comes with cursive handwriting and a way too cramped kerning and you have what looks more like a landfill of ink than language. There is a scientific reason why slanted cursive looks weird though, and it's because the space in the letters are made smaller than they should be. You know how O has a hole in it and A, D, E, G, and a whole bunch of other lowercase letters? If you close those holes off, then it just looks weird. Same goes for C or S. They don't have holes in them, but they do have this negative space contained in their curve. Fill those in and the letters actually become unreadable. Make the space too big on one side and too little on the other and you end up with handwriting that's probably more goofy than messy, to be honest. And the final thing to put the nail in the coffin? Letter congruency. This is the real reason why your handwriting will never look like a font on the computer because every O and E and A that you type on your screen will look, well, they are the same thing. But with your handwriting, every letter is different from itself, every other letter and everything around it. And it's not just the shape of the letter, it's the curve of your S's, the weight of your C's, the proportion of your E's. It's everything. So with all that in mind, we come to the final question. What's your font? Well, as we just found out, none. Your letters have to look the exact same every time for it to be a font. But that doesn't mean you can't categorize your handwriting. Does it have serifs? How are your terminals? Counters. How smushed together is your handwriting? Fonts in real life are all different by pixel perfect amounts to give them their personalities. But you can use these bigger classes of font aspects to categorize your handwriting into a general family of fonts. If you really wanted to, you could say that your handwriting is a distant font cousin of Comic Sans since you have no serifs, relatively curvy letters and a uniform weight. But at the end of the day, who cares? The most important thing here is that you have the knowledge of how typography actually works. And with that, maybe you can fix your messy handwriting since now you finally know, scientifically know, what makes your handwriting look so messy. Thanks for watching.