In March of 1971 Intel released the very first the 4004. This along with 8008 processor released the revolution. But does that mean there were no computers Well we know that certainly wasn't the case seen widespread use in business since the In fact the guidance computers used in the 1960s. And let's not forget the famous story of arcade game Breakout which was also made entirely Of course digital computers were in existence so needless to say they didn't have microprocessors In fact, if you think about it, a microprocessor which in many cases can be separated into Just as an example, the 6502 processor was bunch of transistors and a lot of blinking what is going on inside of it. They are calling it the Monster 6502. So now I'll introduce you to the Gigatron This is another do-it-yourself computer kit, before. But the main distinguishing difference is It comes in a very neat looking little box, I'll go as far as to say this is the best this. And while it does contain a lot of in depth you away as the assembly instructions are able to assemble this. In fact, the only tools you'll really need some rosin core solder, and a pair of wire And that's it. So, just taking a look at what it comes with, And here are all of the TTL logic chips, along This appears to be a ubiquitous USB power And this is the board itself. The layout on this board is spectacular and make this look nice and be easy to assemble. And down in the corner it says The Computer specifications. I'm going to follow the assembly instructions installing these 40 little capacitors. And so that's what I'll do! There was a little confusion in the manual I had to read it several times. So, hopefully this is right. Well, the manual says at this point I can flashing on the LEDs, then everything is working So I guess I got the diodes in right. Next, I'll install the audio output. And we'll need the joystick port. And the last thing is the VGA port, along with that. After spending many hours assembling this, output. So, crossing my fingers. Hey it works! So for final assembly, I just need to install and then 4 more rubber feet go inside the The board actually rests on these. And then I can just insert the board and close It's definitely a thing of beauty! Well, let's see what we can do with it. When you first power it up you get a menu I'm going to start with pictures. Interesting.. some kind of ape. I'm not sure which species. Anyway, the Gigatron can display 64 colors channels, which I noticed when I was soldering And while the resolution is very low, the So let's talk about the video display a The Gigatron can display a video resolution 8-bit computers. However, the Gigatron doesn't really have They've borrowed a page from the Sinclair in software by the CPU. Of course, in this case, I use the term CPU And due to the clock speed of this machine pixels is the best resolution that can be If you'll notice, every 4th scan line on however, part of the reason for this is that to actually execute code instead of worrying However, it is possible to disable this feature. But first I'll show you the Mandelbrot demonstration. So this creates a fractal image on the screen. It looks like it wouldn't take very long, But one thing I wanted to show you is if you it will toggle the scan lines to a more full cycles for program code. And this is clearly obvious on a program like down when this mode is enabled. Even in the faster mode, it takes almost 20 There are a couple of games on here, the first And I haven't entirely figured out the point I'm not sure if I'm supposed to be collecting The other game is called racer. And I think the point is to simply see how So I want to take a moment to talk about the The CPU, if you can call it that, only supports By coincidence the PDP-8 was named what it as well. Even an old chip like the 6502 had 56 different the time had hundreds of different instructions. Writing code with only 8 instructions is certainly And so what they have done is created a virtualized So, imagine for example, if you look at how old Apple or Commodore, and if you imagine itself, which must be programmed in machine Then they wrote a BASIC interpreter that is BASIC program to run and a more friendly environment Well, the Gigatron does something similar It also has the hardware layer, but then a is written in the native machine code, but in something called GCL, which stands for The language is still very similar to assembly making it easier to code for. You might compare it to Steve Wozniak's The CPU runs at 6.25 mhz, but by the time you're probably getting something closer from the 1980s. So, while the Gigatron is pretty cool from standpoint, it does have some flaws, which For one thing, it's not cheap. Now, computer manufacturers figured out a cheaper was to reduce the chip count, not And so, this computer with the number of chips all of the different holes and traces on it, It retails for 160 Euros, which at the current And that in and of itself wouldn't be so And this is of course, just my subjective assembling the computer and you've explored a lot you can actually do with it. There's no way. There's no keyboard interface and there's the computer itself. There is a feature called loader on the main requires using an Arduino and of course doing And so I think that's a big drawback, and had from experimenting with it. However, that issue is mainly just a software And who knows? They could update the firmware at some point even run BASIC or at least some kind of machine So, is it worth the money? I guess you'll have to decide for yourself. Myself, I'm just happy I was able to show pretty interesting and I hope you found it However, I'm still hoping somebody will And rather than go into that here, I'll on my website showing what I think my dream And maybe somebody will build it. So that about wraps it up for this episode. So stick around until next time and as always,