- The level of destruction was enormous. You couldn't tell that you had an Airbus 8310 aircraft there. I mean, you couldn't even (menacing music) - [Narrator] 8:19 p.m. TWA Flight 800 is airborne. - Talk to me. What do yo have for us? - [Narrator] Without tears the fuselage apart. Debris from TWA Flight nearly 75 miles east of Manhattan. Investigators begin the painstaking task of piecing together what The NTSB's lead investigator, Al Dickinson faces an urgent task. - It was extremely important for us to find out what happened flying at that time. - [Narrator] The NTSB will - This is a half mile block here. - [Narrator] While the FBI launches a parallel criminal inquiry. - People think this is exclusive That's not correct. If it's a criminal matter, we have to get out there right away. (menacing music) - [Narrator] The FBI believes they may already have an explanation for the disaster over Long Island. Three years earlier in 1993, into the World Trade Center. Just over a year before, Timothy McVeigh bombed the Now, the midair explosion of TWA 800 is also being linked to terrorism. - It was all over the news how people thought they to hit an aircraft. A lot of 'em thought they saw missiles. - [Narrator] NTSB carefully searching for (dramatic music) They study wreckage from almost every part of the 230-foot long plane. - Pretty much during the we were looking for any kind of missile or bomb. - [Narrator] They find no (solemn music) - No pitting, no cratering, nothing. - We didn't find the set patterns and arraying pattern that We didn't find this micro cratering where a hot piece of metal are impacting other pieces of metal. - It wasn't a bomb. - [James] No piece had any - [Narrator] NTSB investigators believe it was an exploding fuel but they still don't know - We need to prove three things. The fuel was flammable. The explosion has to be powerful And finally, something created Let's start with the first one. Flammability. (menacing music) - [Narrator] Jet fuel in its but when heated, the When combined with oxygen this vapor can become highly flammable. At the altitude where TWA 800 jet fuel needs to reach before it can ignite. There's just one problem. - The manufacturers say, well, it never gets that hot in there. - [Narrator] According to inside the wings would for the fuel to vaporize. On the day of the fatal flight, the temperature at JFK airport well below the flashpoint for jet fuel. The NTSB's theory may be wrong. Investigators examine the design An intriguing detail - I remember learning that the placement of the air conditioning the center tank and those - They cool the aircraft, could've quite hot during that procedure. - [Narrator] On TWA 800, were working extra hard on a hot evening. - The air conditioning packs underneath the center wing fuel for, I believe several - [Narrator] Could heat from the units have boosted the to a dangerously high level? - There's only one way to find out. - The only way we were going to determine the actual conditions inside the fuel tank was by performing a flight test. - [Narrator] They decide to of the accident flight. - All right, let's start it up. - [Narrator] The same type and most importantly, exactly the same air conditioning units. (plane engine roaring) It's a risky undertaking The test flight reaches the - Holy Crow. - [Narrator] The temperature - These air conditioner packs were getting up to 350 degrees. 350 degrees is about what to bake a chicken. - This is off the charts. - [Narrator] The temperature in the tank hits 127 degrees Fahrenheit, 30 degrees above the flash point. - Okay, let's get back down to the ground. - [Narrator] Investigators are now certain that the fuel in the tanks of TWA 800 did become flammable. Investigators know the Northwest could not have heard a but they still don't was descending so rapidly. They wonder if weather conditions They check the temperatures and the type of precipitation - These are prime conditions for icing. Plane would have descended - [Narrator] Investigators the icing conditions were - Just wondering if you - [Narrator] They talk to other pilots who flew into Hibbing that night. - So you were aware of during your approach into Hibbing? - [Narrator] The pilots tell DeLisi, they faced moderate icing conditions. - But why would these two pilots start their descent so late? - [Narrator] They also used to prevent ice accumulation. (plane engine roaring) It now seems the rapid descent was not due to a loss of control caused by icing. Instead, it looks like it was part of a deliberate strategy to avoid icing. Finally, investigators get the evidence they've been waiting for. The cockpit voice recording. - All right, everybody ready? Play the tape. - [Narrator] The to the recording. It's what is not said (dramatic music) - Why isn't the first officer - [Narrator] First officer Erickson should be telling his captain how close they are to and warning him when they descend past it. But he does neither. - Gear down. Lapse 20. - He never told the captain how close they were getting to the ground. - [Narrator] Captain landing the plane. He expects his first officer to keep an eye on their altitude. But on this flight, the first officer never once reports the altitude as the plane speeds closer (passengers scream) The CDR leads investigators to wonder. Was the loss of 18 lives due to the failings of an Captain Falitz was known but a deeper look reveals a - When we looked at the we began to understand that he had some previous - Soon after he joined the He failed two more proficiency That's unusual for a professional pilot to fail that many times. - The problems hadn't in the organization, at different locations. So nobody put everything (menacing music) - Some of the instructor that his cockpit resource and that he had a tendency to - Well, he had an issue with - Are all these formal complaints - Marvin was the first captain my initial operating experience. And he tended to be a and would berate you, and was intolerant of mistakes, and really not a particularly - Wow. - [Narrator] Perhaps the against Captain Falitz, is that he once physically - For a professional pilot to or attempt to quote, is totally unacceptable. (dramatic music) - I don't get it. What was making this guy so angry? - You gotta be freaking kidding me. - [Narrator] According Captain Falitz's morale took a big hit when Northwest Airlink instituted a new resident's policy for their pilots. - About a year before the company, for cost-saving purposes, where they require the pilots to reside at their outstations. These would be small towns - [Narrator] Investigators make another disturbing discovery. Captain Falitz would sometimes with the flight controls. - His way of getting was to sometimes take it - I was amazed when I read And I was amazed that a make a rough flight to make people mad, because, what good does that do? This guy, from what I understand, he did it because he wanted - [Narrator] As more and more details about the captain's personality emerge, investigators are forced to - Could his anger somehow - The morning after the on a frozen field marks of Flight 3272. A team from the National is already at work, recovering pieces of Investigators head to They wanna hear from with the pilots, the approach controller. - He was coming on rush hour. We had winter weather. - From air traffic control, we learned that the weather was bad and airplanes were starting to pile up on their approach into Detroit. - I made sure there was plenty - There were other airplanes So sometimes when they're there can be an issue with wake vortex coming off one airplane - [Narrator] A wake vortex that trails behind an aircraft. If one plane flies too close it can encounter sudden - So, here's the Airbus American - [Narrator] The Airbus is almost twice the size of the Embraer 120. A wake vortex incident seems possible. But investigators won't know for certain until experts at NASA (dramatic music) - And that settles that. - [Narrator] But it's another dead end. - It wasn't a wake vortex. - [Narrator] The analysis from American Airlines Flight to the altitude of Comair 3272. Investigators are back where they started. Why 29 people died just is still a mystery. NTSB system specialist, John DeLisi faces one of the biggest - We knew the airplane was and something dramatic happened. Something went wrong suddenly. - What a mess! - [Narrator] The NTSB's Richard Rodriguez leads the investigation. - Our mission is to find make recommendations that will prevent it from ever happening again. - [Narrator] He's very familiar having investigated previous accidents involving the Embraer 120. - The Embraer 120 propeller due to a fatigue crack over in an accident earlier in Georgia, and the but it was very difficult to control. - [Narrator] In two previous cases, part of a propeller blade Could it have happened again? Rodriguez reviews details of where the two propellers were found at the Detroit crash site. He makes a troubling discovery. Part of one blade ended up 75 feet away from the main impact crater. He can't help but wonder, he's seen an Embraer 120 propeller fail? - We need to take a look - We wanted to get those to ensure they were intact at impact. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Rodriguez looking for evidence of failure. If the propeller blades were all attached and spinning at impact, they with tremendous force, resulting in distinctive - This is impact damage. It was spinning right to the end. - [Narrator] The analysis leaves no doubt. Though the propellers fragmented they did not fail in flight. Air China Flight 129 has been in the air for a little less than two hours. Among the 155 passengers is flying home from vacation. Their tour guide is (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] I had and my wife was four months pregnant. There were about 20 people I had many things to take care of. - I just can't believe that happened. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] I was working very hard because I had ambitions to be promoted. I didn't take breaks and worked late. I was trying my best. - [Narrator] But for Seol Ik-Soo who's trying to make a good impression at his new job, today is - I mean, what kind of person does that? - [Narrator] It all started when he made a mistake that he - [Translator] I had to sit in first class, but right before we got to the airport, I realized that I'd in the hotel lobby. The bus driver had to turn around and go back to the hotel. (speaking in foreign language) The good seats were Because we had to return to the hotel, my group was pushed to seats - [Narrator] Seol Ik-Soo the far more important - Ladies and gentlemen, we're to Gimhae Airport. Local weather is foggy with some rain. We'll be landing in - [Narrator] Changing weather conditions are posing a challenge for the crew. - We're to land runway 18. Reduce speed. - Okay. - [Narrator] Seol Ik-Soo worries that the bad weather will (plane beeping) - Man, turn around. Pull up! Pull up! (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] I heard people screaming. I was sliding. I couldn't keep my body straight because the speed was too fast. Then... Bang! (plane crashes) - [Narrator] Air China Flight 129 has crashed into the side of Mount Dotdae, miles from the intended runway. Of the 166 people on board, 37 survive. Almost all those who made it out alive were seated near tour guide, Seol Ik-Soo. - 90% of the tour group I - [Narrator] The fact forgot his passport, something he thought was a shameful mistake, as a life-saving stroke of luck. Air China Flight 129 has crashed into the side of Mount Dotdae, miles from the intended runway. After any plane crash near a runway, some of the first people are the air traffic controllers. - It was slated to perform but it was changed to a circling approach. - Why the sudden change? - The wind changed direction. I changed the approach so - [Narrator] Switching from a straight in to a circling approach is at airports around the world. - Some airports, you because of mountains or whatever. And then once you get to the airport, because of winds, you may circle and land. - [Narrator] Flight 129 to land on runway 36 left But after the change, they were coming in from the north instead. - We're closer to the sea. The weather's always changing. We do this all the time. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] Air traffic for a circling approach, for the weather conditions at the time. - Is there anything else you can remember? - Communications. Their radio communications were all wrong. - How do you mean? - Air China 129, contact - [Narrator] Shortly after to do a circling approach, the tower controller tells the pilot to switch to a new radio frequency. - Air China 129, contact tower 118, one. - [Narrator] All airports to communicate in emergency situations. If air traffic control even suspects a plane is in distress, they will use this frequency - [Flight Officer] Gimhae Circle approach, 18 right. - Air China 129, check wheels down. Wind 210 at 17 knots. Clear to land runway 18 right? They finally called me back. It seemed like we're Then less than a minute later, they crushed into the mountain. - [Narrator] The Air China to air traffic control. Investigators need to know what during the unusual delay. - If air traffic controllers and the crew either doesn't answer or misinterprets it, it - [Narrator] Garuda Indonesia Flight 152 left the Indonesian capital of Jakarta nearly 90 minutes ago. Headed Northwest, it's expected to arrive at its destination in about half an hour. - [Air Controller] Surface winds, calm. Visibility, 400 meters. Present weather, smoke. - [Narrator] Forest fires in Sumatra have sent a thick blanket of smoke across all of Southeast Asia. - Indonesia 152, turn right heading 046. - Turn right heading 046, Indonesia 152. - [Narrator] Any second now, Flight 152 turn onto final approach. (menacing music) - What? - [Narrator] The Airbus has to the ground. - Come on! Climb! Climb! Climb! Go, go, go, go! Go! (plane crashes) - [Narrator] Investigators from the air traffic controller, the last person to have - They approached from the southeast. I was trying to bring them in this way. Left turn and a right turn - [Narrator] The controller suspects the captain somehow and missed the final turn. With no sign of the black boxes, investigators gather made in the tower. It's hoped they can shed some light on why the plane turned instead of towards it. - Roll tape. - [Pilot] Confirming - [Narrator] The air traffic recordings capture only the radio calls between the pilots and the controller. - [Air Controller] Indonesia 152, descend to 3000 feet for runway 05. - [Narrator] They're not as which would reveal all sounds and conversation inside the cockpit. - [Air Controller] Reduce speed, 220. - [Narrator] But investigators as to why the A300 veered - [Pilot] On heading 215, Indonesia 152. - That puts them about One more right turn and he's lined up with the runway. - [Air Controller] Indonesia 152, turn right heading 046. - There it is, clear as day. - [Pilot] Turn right heading 046, Indonesia 152. - Okay, stop there. They definitely understood, turn right. - [Narrator] How the flight in the final few moments is baffling. - It's in the exact opposite direction they were told. - [Narrator] Investigators need the CVR if they hope to figure in the cockpit of Flight 152. The crash of USAir Flight 1016 is the first accident in North Carolina in 20 years. Both pilots and the But of the 52 passengers, 37 are dead. Greg Feith, senior investigator with the National will lead the investigation. - Any time you go to an a crash site, there's I don't care how seasoned because you know that people or killed in that particular event. - [Narrator] Examining the wreckage is the team's first task. - So what have we got? - [Narrator] They must determine was a factor in the crash. They examine the DC-9s two Right away, they spot - Oh, look at that. The thrust reverser on - Their examination of that the thrust reverser was and that the thrust was in the stowed position. - [Narrator] Thrust reversers to help slow the plane down. They work by redirecting the engine's high powered exhaust gases forward. - If it happens in flight, Because if it happens on one engine in a multi-engine airplane, you create an asymmetrical - Maybe that's what - We've had thrust And depending on the you can literally break that - [Narrator] Closer investigation on the metal of the right side reverser. Marks that suggest a heavy It's an important clue. Further analysis leads Investigators know exactly when and how the right side reverser opened. - They were able to make a determination that the reverser on that right engine, even though it was deployed, happened during the course of the impact sequence and did not happen in flight. - At least we know it - [Narrator] Eliminating is a step forward for investigators. But there's still a long what brought down USAir Flight 1016. Investigators need to understand why air traffic control in Charlotte didn't warn USAir Flight 1016 about a fierce storm over the airport. - Oh, hey. - Good to meet you. - The air traffic controllers and they could see and they had been for much longer than the flight crew had. So we knew very early on, was gonna be one of the central areas - Why did you tell the pilots the weather was good enough to land in? - The weather reports told us it was. - [Narrator] The controller on a bulletin from the It showed that conditions for a safe landing. - I even asked the pilot who landed four minutes USAir 983, how was the ride - [Pilot] Smooth, USAir 93. - USAir 1016, previous flight He said it was a smooth ride. (soft music) It was fine. No problems. - [Narrator] The weather was indeed correct. Conditions were clear to land. But minutes later, the skies and heavy rain poured down. - By the time I got to the next bulletin, it was too late. - Listen, I really appreciate your help. If I have more questions, is All right? Thanks. - [Narrator] It's now that weather conditions changed very quickly. What's unclear is why the failed to forecast the change. - See what we have here. - [Narrator] They studied the reports that the National Weather Service issued for Charlotte Airport that day. 6:36 p.m. Light rain showers. 6:40 p.m., heavy rain showers. It seems the weather the change in conditions, but then investigators make It took two minutes to transmit the new information - The problem came from not having a full body of information from the National Weather Service. - Flaps 40 please. - So, they weren't providing to the flight crew. - [Narrator] Weather to another discovery. - This is crazy. Look at that. There are two storm cells moving in here. - [Narrator] As the USAir one storm formation... - 1840. - [Narrator] Another storm cell... - [Investigator] 1842. - [Narrator] Suddenly - They were blindsided - Here come the wipers. - [Narrator] The late weather report left the crew unprepared The critical question now, was the rainstorm strong enough to knock Flight 1016 out of the sky? Salvage crews pull what from the Keelung River. (menacing music) There's no telling which piece of wreckage might hold an important clue. Investigators wonder if shows any sign of a malfunction. - Nothing wrong with this actuator. - We cannot find anything the linkage of the control. - Control system seems fine. - [Narrator] A search for in the plane's hydraulic - Nothing wrong with the hydraulics. Is this the left engine? - Yes. - [Narrator] Investigators that the plane was banked A mechanical fault with the left engine seems like the next most obvious suspect. - We need to take a look inside. Get the borescope. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] From a we can see whether or not are damaged on the inside. Since the turbine rotates if it is even slightly damaged, it will be completely destroyed. (soft music) - [Narrator] But the borescope examination yields no new clues. - Left engine completely operational. Strange. - [Narrator] They need to - What about the right engine? Let's go take a look. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] They study the right engine and what they find is mystifying. - Look at the blades. They're feathered. - [Narrator] Feathered is a When a propeller engine the blades automatically rotate parallel to the airstream to reduce drag. The discovery only deepens the mystery. - Why would the right engine be feathered, when the dash cam video clearly shows the plane banking to the left? - It doesn't make any sense. Let's have a look. - When we discover a we know there should be - Anything? - Nothing at all. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] Both engines after examination. They were both fine. - There's nothing wrong - If both engines were operational, or why did this plane crash? - [Narrator] It's just before 6:00 a.m. at Sharm El Sheikh Airport in Egypt. 217 passengers are headed some four hours away. At 5:51 a.m., Metrojet Flight - [Man] The aircraft took No problems with the takeoff. - [Narrator] Flight 9268 31,000 feet above the Sinai Peninsula. All is going smoothly until 6:13 a.m., when Flight 9268 does something unexpected. The Airbus seems to be dropping. - Metrojet 9268, are you Do you read me, Metrojet 9268? - Then all of a sudden, at the altitude, just - Do you read me? - [Narrator] As rescuers it soon becomes clear that - Airbus aircraft just simply So that gets everyone's, on what happened here? - Really? - [Narrator] There are rumors this was a terrorist attack. Take a look at this. - [Narrator] A terrorist group affiliated with Islamic State, across the Middle East, for bringing down Metrojet 9268. They say it was in retaliation for Russian military attacks in Syria. Though there is no proof there's speculation that attackers used a surface to air missile. - When I looked at the debris field, I kept thinking, right again. Another catastrophic, shocking crash as a result of an ignition - [Narrator] After the Muammar Gaddafi in 2011, militants raided his weapons depots, flooding the region with Russian made shoulder mounted missile launchers. Investigators need to are powerful enough to hit an airliner at cruising altitude. - These are the missiles they're using. Plane was flying at 31,000 feet. What's the range on those missiles? - I was just looking at the specs. Check it out. - [Narrator] They study military documents and make some quick calculations. They soon have their answer. - It's not possible. Not with the weapons they have. - It was too of an altitude to There was good reason for that this could have been That group has used a surface specifically in early 2014 an Egyptian helicopter. - The first officers (speaking in foreign language) - What's she saying? I - They spoke with the father just before he flew - And what did he say? - He said there were mechanical - I did see reports of that safety was dubious on this aircraft. - There's only one way to find out. - The fact that the a lot of problems, you'd what those problems were. And secondly, are they relevant to what we know has happened? (menacing music) - Excuse me. - [Narrator] Investigators who last serviced the airplane - What can you tell us - We serviced it for 30 - Doesn't sound like a long time. - That is a quick turnaround, and low-cost carriers - They work their people hard to turn the aircraft round fast, so that that aircraft is in the air as many hours of the day earning money for them. - [Narrator] The aircraft It had been through But maintenance engineers insist that the plane was mechanically sound. (plane engine roaring) - Significant incidents maybe in the past, something like that? - It had a tail strike in 2001? - [Narrator] A tail strike of a plane hits the runway Damage can be minor or severe, depending on the force of the impact. Maintenance records show that the tail strike damage was repaired. Investigators now wonder from 14 years ago may the Metrojet Airbus. The shattered remains of Metrojet 9268 have been moved from the Sinai Desert to a massive warehouse in Cairo. - Let me take a look at this. - [Narrator] Investigators can tell them if an from years ago doomed They sword through tail pieces They focus on the ones that were repaired because of the tail strike incident. (dramatic music) - If any mistakes or shortcuts then that tends to put on various parts of the metal structure. And that starts the and you get cracks. - Fatigue has certainly, has quite distinctive characteristics. - No signs of damage around the repair. - Something else caused it. - [Narrator] Before long, they also rule out engine failure and all other mechanical failures. It seems there was nothing - Just doesn't make sense. - [Narrator] It's been almost 48 hours since Thai Airways Flight 311 disappeared in the Himalayas. Investigators have yet But now they're about to Local villagers report that they found aircraft The reported crash site is nowhere near the area they've been searching. - I don't think they ever thought the airplane was - [Narrator] North of Kathmandu, the Himalayan peak soared to These Northern summits are the reason almost all planes from the south, where the mountains are closer to 8,000 feet. (chopper whirring) Later that day, 27 miles search crews find the remains of Thai Airways Flight 311. The point of impact is a steep rock phase more than 11,000 feet up the None of the 113 people The challenge for investigators is unlike anything they've The terrain is so extreme, near the impact zone. The team will have to trek from the base camp to reach the wreckage. It's a treacherous five-hour hike. The team includes experts including Canada's David Rohrer. - The level of destruction was enormous. You couldn't tell that you had an Airbus 8310 aircraft there. I mean, you couldn't even (gentle music) - The first big question they have is how did Thai Airways The Airbus should never have been flying north of the airport. - Right over there. - [Narrator] An airport is the final stop on a long journey for wreckage collected - The sherpas would bring down the pieces that we identified down And then the Nepalese would put them in nets to the hangar at the airport. - [Narrator] As team members the investigation takes (soft music) - Excuse me. Can I help you? - During the investigation, one of the family members was asking for a circuit board, just because they somehow would link them to their loved one. - [Narrator] The unusual request leads to an incredible find. - That's when we actually of the recorder we were missing, - [Narrator] The FDR on the plane speed, direction and altitude throughout the flight. - You always hope that that things will happen to your benefit. And those are the kinds of moments you really hope for as an investigator. - [Narrator] It's the breakthrough Evidence that could south of the airport ended to its north. (soft music)