On June 18, 2023, Titan, a deep ocean submersible site, killing all five occupants on board, of Oceangate, an American privately owned company for tourism, industry, research, and exploration. to such a catastrophic implosion in this video. Abhishek &amp; welcome to Revolutionary Engineering. due to the harsh and extreme conditions found at pressure. As depth increases in the ocean, the significantly. At a depth of 1000 meters, atmospheric pressure &amp; at 3800 meters where the times the atmospheric pressure. This is equivalent thousand pounds-force. Designing and constructing immense pressures without compromising integrity a professional trade group warned that OceanGate's could lead to potentially &quot;catastrophic&quot; outcomes. spherical structure for a submersible would be a for an even distribution of the pressure load, while in the case of Titan, its larger internal susceptible to stress concentrations, accelerating to make here. The elongated shape of a submersible and functionality in deep waters. While the integrity of the Titan as far as its shape is the elongated shape itself is not inherently deep waters. In fact, many submersibles designed to enhance stability and hydrodynamic efficiency. in the Titan posed much higher safety risks as many pressurization cycles due to fatigue. Fatigue undergoes repeated loading and unloading cycles, repeated stress with changing hydrostatic pressure it underwent. Fatigue failure can manifest as within the structure. These cracks can propagate not detected and addressed. But let's get back avoided with the right engineering decisions. construction -- with titanium endcaps -- as more compared to other deep diving submersibles. It meters (2.4 miles) "with a comfortable safety multiple issues that we will see in a minute pressures like the one that Titan underwent. making a submersible naturally buoyant. But they non-destructive testing of Titan's hull was Ultrasonic testing could help spot areas inside But The company claimed their technology, to listen for sounds of carbon fibers in case detection for the pilot with enough time to arrest according to me as a mechanical engineer is the a real-time deterioration of the carbon fiber. structure itself is misaligned &amp; goes undetected. exhibit different properties when subjected to fibers buckle under compression. This is due to that the material exhibit different mechanical The most important point to note here is the fiber the fibers, the composite exhibits higher strength in resisting forces that attempt to pull the i.e. Perpendicular to the Fiber, the mechanical fiber direction. This is because the load is direction. Instead, the matrix material primarily and weaker than the carbon fibers. See how the in this video from oceangate. The Carbon fiber shell. As already pointed out, the load-bearing direction, so any misalignment in fiber can easily extreme pressure or fatigue. To better understand If we take only the carbon fiber shell, the deformation in the portion where fibers are weaker have caused the implosion of the shell. This is side would cause tension on one side of the fiber view in which a fiber experiences tension on the And carbon fibers are very good at taking tensile deformation can also cause an increase in pressure increase in stress along the shell circumference. nature. Though carbon fiber can handle tensile that is compressive in nature is maximum on thus aggressively accelerating the collapse of could be one of the most probable reasons of was absolutely necessary that the company had of third-party scrutiny of the vessel during problems. Apart from this, there is something with carbon fiber. The Engineering design process Animation Source: Finglow Consultants Ltd. modeling. But the anisotropic behavior of carbon process as the material properties need to model. On top of it, Carbon fiber composites resin distribution, and manufacturing defects. accurately in computational models. It's not that David Lochridge, OceanGate's former in a 2018 lawsuit that the company's testing "subject passengers to potential extreme danger Rush in an interview to GeekWire admitted that Because of this, the hull's depth rating had been the Titan's hull was either repaired or The entire craft controlled using a video game reliability of the craft. As any delays control signals between the controller and the to unintended movements or loss of control, mission. Deep ocean is still a hard-to-understand always associated with high risks. Wrong life-threatening. Can carbon fiber be a choice section for any thoughts. I would appreciate probably like some other videos like this one on