John Palmer, born in 1742, was an actor of the his career was, shall we say... inconsistent. while at other times - usually by the for paying his wage - he was criticized He was known for occasionally not showing up persuasive arguments, and downright lies. Palmer on being the only man in the world whose Although a few people in high places in the Palmer was nonetheless popular 1798 was a tragic time for the london-based he was left homeless and even spent some time in He was also said to be suffering from However, he was determined to return to the travelled from London to Liverpool to appear also known as Mysanthropy and Repentance. He recent losses, but nonetheless, he took to the It was during act 4 of the play that Palmer's words &quot;I left them at a town hard by&quot;. the color drew away from John Palmer's face. collapsed. The audience believed that it was part taken from the stage. Although his death came who cared, there was one close friend in His name was Mr. Richardson, owner of the Richardson owned a large house in Spring Mrs. Vernon, her family, and his own The house was split into two living quarters, was permitted to use Richardson's half of the time of Palmer's death, the occupants of his new That evening Mr. Richardson, on returning home, if anyone else was home. &quot;No one&quot; Tucker replied. o'clock&quot;. Richardson thought it strange; as far accepted that he was either wrong, or for one Given his recent situation and state of The next morning the subject of John On hearing this, Mrs. Vernon, looking them of Palmer's appointment in Liverpool. seen Palmer the night before, exiting the and when spoken to, he gave no reply. Mrs. she wrote to Palmer in care of the Liverpool It wasn't until two days later letter from Liverpool informing him of recorded as happening on the evening of August 2nd Mr. Tucker had seen a pale and gaunt looking Elliott O'Donnell, the famed ghost hunter and author, was a Ghost Club; a society dedicated to researching club and recalled a tale told to him by a london beat one night on Waterloo Bridge, heading across footsteps behind him. When he turned around, She was said to be in a frantic state and There was someone there, she The officer followed the woman who turned Cleopatra's Needle. The officer said it was stepped onto the short wall next to the landmark. was going to jump, so he rushed forward, He was faced with the same young woman who had She was even wearing the same dress. He of an explanation from the first woman, After questioning the young lady who he'd just to end her life, but she insisted she was alone was alone too when he approached her, and Now I haven't been able to find but it was featured in Peter Elliott O'Donnell, who claimed to have police officer involved, died in 1965 having been It's true that Cleopatra's Needle has when the 15th century obelisk was following a tragedy-stricken journey that to believe that the landmark was cursed and had In 1969 an investigation took place at in Stoke Newington in the borough of Hackney in was the then president of the famed Ghost Club, The tenants were Mr. Richard McGhee, and Sally who were in their twenties, Strachan's two infant children Danny and Elaine. who was also a member of the Ghost Club, in turn it was Reverend Robbins who You see, the family had for the last five paranormal activity within the house; from loud and even inexplicable fires. But it was in 1964 was first seen by another daughter I couldn't find any further details but it was three years until It was september of 1967 when Sally Strachan with the spectre. She said, that particular bed at around the midnight hour. When she entered 'an apparition of a woman in victorian dress' that the woman had a bonnet-like headdress According to the family's account, when Sally elder sister June, who was visiting the family, June ran from the room in hysterics, and when all that remained, they said, were smoke-like dispersed. Following this incredible account a small lamp in the house caught fire In the days that followed, the phantom woman was who was only three years old at the time, in the bedroom who lived in the wardrobe. bedroom, and it was noticed that knocking sounds Mr. McGhee claims that he was in the bedroom him several times. It was as if the piece of When it came to rest with enough force that his hand inside. He said it felt as if he The family was so dismayed by 69 Spencer Grove, that on more than one occasion too afraid to re-enter the house. When the the current president Peter Underwood, his wife, Robbins all attended and listened to the accounts they were shown the wardrobe from Underwood suggested that they try to tempt the knocks on the shelf, closed the door again As they began to descend the stairs, three clear and distinct Some weeks later the same wardrobe inexplicably It was this dangerous event that finally drove The matter was even brought before a judge, as and in rental arrears. A rent assessment simply been negligent and were responsible for the including that given by the ghost club members, family's claims, and was prepared to accept that He reduced the outstanding rent from six as is so often the case with hauntings, household in Stoke Newington were never fully were descriptive and chilling, but only they Grove in Stoke Newington, along with many of the This is the corner of Newgate Street and on the corner is the Old Bailey criminal courts. Prison which was opened in 1769. During the were housed next to the prison building, whereas Notice the Viaduct Tavern to the left which still passed through here over the centuries, either as here too, because within Newgate Prison there One of the people tried and executed here was Over the course of 30 years Amelia Dyer fostered and clothing for the child, she promised them a law abiding years, it was revealed in 1879 Amelia Dyer's eventual downfall came when the a bag floating on the River Thames in Reading by a bargeman named Charles In a highly publicized trial, and one of the most guilty of murder and hanged on June 10th, 1896. thought that Dyer could have been responsible Six years after the execution of Amelia Dyer, During the last week of its operation in 1902, incident within the confines of the so-called the buildings, he said he thought he saw When he peered through the window he claims to He said that as he watched her, she turned her face. He said he swore it was the face this could have been a hallucination brought the words Amelia Dyer had spoken to him six I'm not sure if this part of the story was recorded that the same prison warder was present of the courtroom following sentencing. As she left &quot;I shall see you again, Sir&quot;. What the warder Felons Yard in 1902 may have been due to an that around the same time of the alleged sighting, prison workers of a female apparition walking because the female prisoners by this time were Bruce Castle in Tottenham is a One of the oldest surviving brick houses in The property, which was once owned by Rowland is said to be haunted by a ghost that her presence known - on the The haunting's genesis lies in the Lady Constantia Coleraine threw herself it in desperation after being locked away in a small room over the central porch because he was a jealous man and didn't Others say she did it because of an and Sarah Seymour, the Duchess of Somerset; On November 3rd 1680, Lady Coleraine is reported of the tower and made her way to the parapet, before jumping to their deaths. Legend Lady Coleraine will appear again on the Curiously though, despite the legend of the annual ghost didn't appear until almost of the Tottenham and It's been said that as the years have passed, Lady of her screams being heard into the early 20th recalled a conversation he'd had in the 1960s with castle as a child. She told him that as a child The building has since been repurposed In 1949 C.H. Rock joined seven men from Edmonton Hundred in an all-night vigil on the According to London's Daily Herald, dated believer. At the time he was quoted to have said: No phantom appeared that night, nor were research team claimed to have heard disembodied Mr. Rock also noted that clock failed to strike the hour of one 'o clock, but struck every hour before and after as normal.