In today's video we're going to give you a North Idaho that we're going to be moving Hey! Good morning guys. Welcome back to the vlog. This is a seven acre piece just a little bit [Music] I'm going to show you the street first so you can see kind of the street area. It starts right about here and then it goes And then it goes that way. When We come out here we've got a little bit Right now I am facing south and so what's for the whole south side of the property. So take out a bunch of trees and you should in the winter time. There's a lot of nice sized trees that's You got all these guys in here and of course There's lots of different types of trees there's Lots of different kinds of trees on this property. Also as we've been walking around we've been is like animal poop. And what kinds have we seen? We've seen rabbit and elk and we've actually Actually one rabbit, that's one rabbit, Oh yeah, lots of deer poop - so is there's So it's pretty pretty pretty pretty Jules Looking at building location septic system 35 paces. 105. 105 feet to here. Right here okay. Let's go 50 feet more. All right so we're trying to get down to 150 Perfect huh. All right so is that far enough away from What do you think. Yeah. There is only one neighbor that lives back It is a nice big front yard. iI's a huge front yard. So this right here is 150 feet from the road. Jules is thinking that this right here is This is dry. Yeah it's much bigger than deer. Yeah what about moose? No moose? These look like really big jellybeans. So, if a house went here in this area. The property starts to slope downhill from more of a view from here if I went down this What? Whoa that's a whole pile. There's a pile right there. Yep you think that's elk or deer? That's for sure. For sure it'd be a monster deer. All right, so we come down here and then it road that goes right through right through It keeps going down. Listen you can hear the train? It's not too loud though. What do you think? Not overly loud. There is hardly anywhere in this area that There's a lot of trains that go through. All right we didn't walk down to the end because thick woods, super thick. It needs to be, definitely need to be thinned It's kind of like this right here. Like that. Difficult to walk through. You can do it but it's not very fun. So then This will have to be cleaned up hopefully the property, if we buy this one, will take That car's got to go. That trailer should go. But if it stays well then I guess we can utilize What's this right here? That's like a gas tank. Looks like a old gas tank maybe. I don't know. It bolted to the side of something it looks And this was an RV shed that fell over in That's, that's not good but this is still You can use it up for a shed or something. That's roofing. Yeah. Old flatbed trailer here. Looks like a homemade one. It's pretty cool though. And then the road, the road goes down this there's like another road coming from the And you can walk down probably about 3/4 of follow down this road here. And then the property line is like probably really thick too. Yeah, we've been looking for a property that in the winter and this actually is pretty Still walking down that road here and saw I thought we'd just come in and check it out. Pretty thick wooded area and some good-sized Yeah like, what kind of tree is this? I don't know what kind that is. What kind of tree is this, guys, right here. Still cruising on another road that goes through And right now we're looking for like a spring A pond fed by a spring. That's what we're looking for. Should be right up here somewhere. I think that Sarah might have saw it. She's running off. Here it is right. Yeah. Whoa that's an old mattress. We walked on that last time. Springy, walk on it and see. Feel it. That's weird, huh. all right cruising down Looks And it turned into a pond. There's a pile of dirt right there. That's cool. Yeah, a little pond area. I mean, it's tiny but it's a water source. When you're trying to find the property corners It's called Land Glide. See, it looks like this right here, Land Glad. When you open it up, then it'll have a map And so we're close to the corner right here. And so you just walk around in that general Which there should be one right over here Usually there's like some orange survey tape. Oh yeah right here. All right so we come over here and we find And then you're looking for this guy, this Yeah, this is a corner marker but there's by somebody, just a wood one, and it says But from what I'm told the metal one, the All right there you go guys just a quick little to here in a few months. If you want to follow along on our journey and subscribe to the channel. Also you're going to want to make sure you notified when we have a new video or when We'll hope you guys have a really great day [Music]