Hello and welcome to Chania on the beautiful island of Crete where we're going to explore its exceptional local cuisine only matched by its local people. So let's go We are starting our day at Bougatsa Chanias a famous local bougatsa place where they serve only one type of bougatsa with cheese the weight is measured on a very antique scales cut in the same metal dish and then served Kalimera from Chania, Crete and you cannot start your day in Chania without a proper traditional bougatsa and this one is different than the rest of the Greece because it has Mizithra the local Cretan cheese and then it's topped with sugar or cinnamon so let's go WOW, it's full of cheese the pastry is really, really thin, crunchy this is hands down the best bougatsa I've tried so far, amazing. But let's give it a go with some sugar on top as well. Incredible taste the cheese is quite savory the sugar is sweet I feel that cinnamon as well from before for just incredible combination of flavors Gia mas! Best bougatsa ever! The leaf, the pastry, the outside here we stretch it with olive oil, not butter and tast better it's more elegant it's more soft and the cheese is unique it's only here in Chania, mixed milk - goat and sheep. Local half goat, half sheep's cheese Mizithra and the olive oil used for pastry instead of butter are two key differences comparing this bougatsa to the rest of the Greece Great start of our Chania food tour, but let's go and check out some more places. Next stop a local gyro place. We are at Delish the Food Street Story and this is local and very famous souvlaki and gyro place and there are four amazing gyros spinning inside and I even didn't get a chance to do introduction for this place the food was already here. Delish salad and tzatziki were first to arrive and this salad is a signature salad of this place. The main dish is here as well Patato-Gyro plate and this is a mixed pork and chicken gyro on a plate. and some chicken gyro on a separate plate. Let's get a bit of everything: meat, pita bread and of course fries The fries are all different shapes so it means they were hand cut let's just scoop up everything here. Just an amazing taste perfectly caramelized meat that mix of pork and chicken, nice, juicy, very, very tasty you can feel some mild spices inside. amazing. I scooped up everything and I put some tzatziki on top so let's see how it tastes now. Tzatziki is perfect fresh you can feel how fresh these cucumbers are and tzatziki really gives that extra freshness and additional taste to this gyro. After so much proteins it's time for some vitamins now so let's try this delicious salad. The strong taste of mustard this is like honey-mustard sauce with some other things as well vinegar probably but nice and refreshing salad on a hot day. Total price: 32.40EUR Very good food and also service at the Delish street food but now we need to continue to our next place. We're at the Chania's Old Town really interesting and authentic place to see and visit We came to Domenico's Handcrafted Ice Cream shop to try some very unusual ice cream. Different flavors and different ingredients even by your desire and these girls are quite skilled in making this gelato. The working surface is being chilled by the liquid nitrogen freezing this ice cream instantly and thanks to this chilling method the possibilities are endless you can choose any kind of flavor, ingredients like in this case caramel and banana or adding Kinder chocolate bar to the ice cream. or coconut and chocolate chip. The first ice cream we ordered was a chocolate ice cream Timing here is the most important once the ice cream gets certain consistency it needs to be spread onto the surface quickly. It kind of looks easy peeling off these ice cream rolls but I bet it needs a lot of practice. And all of them end up in the same place this ice cream cup. Some tiny marshmallow on top and it's ready. The kids were too eager to try it, but we adults have to try it as well. This is just too cold even for an ice cream your teeth go numb instantly but a beautiful taste this is practically a frozen chocolate. The next ice cream to try was a pistachio ice cream. Pistachio ice cream requires a little bit more work at the beginning but the last step is the same. The end product are beautiful rolls of ice cream. Ice cream originating from Thailand but with a Greek and Italian twist and the The owner told us that pistachio flavor is the most popular so I had to try pistachio as well. Incredible this really is something special, 100% pistachio taste an excellent very sweet and cold stop at Domenico's ice cream both chocolate and pistachio ice creams were great but anyway we continue our adventure so see you at the next place We are here in the mountain village of Theriso outside of Chania and this is very famous village for its taverns we stopped here for a lunch at the Taverna Limeri behind me and we're going to enjoy some proper Cretan food, so let's go! Very traditional village taverna full of history. The food started to arrive: Local salad... Staka... Hand cut fried potatoes. Our food started to arrive and we got some an incredible looking local salad and then we got a trademark of Chania, Staka produce of goat's milk something in between butter and cheese best eaten if you put some fried potatoes inside mix it and then eat this really smells amazing, salad looks absolutely gorgeous so let's start. There's some figs inside the salad as well dried figs, Mizithra the trademark of Chania and Crete. A mixture of freshness on my plate Great Cretan cheese, sweetness from that fig, fresh cucumber of course fresh tomatoes as well. A recipe for success definitely! Next thing to try is Staka with fried eggs and we dipped couple of potatoes as well. Very simple looking but locally very famous dish. Many people told me about &quot;Staka&quot; the local delicacy but let's try it now. This taste is just purely amazing I don't know how else to describe it? I've never tried anything like it, it's buttery it's a bit cheesy, egg, potato, incredible combination this dish is worth coming to this mountain on its own let alone all this other beautiful food, gia-mas! Lamb chops fried with olive oil and some potatoes as well. Some juicy looking lamb. It's so tender, really melts in your mouth just an amazing local soft and tender tasty lamb. It's not fatty, lean, nice and tender lamb. Actually this is our last dish and it's called: Apaki and these are pork cuts smoked on a barbecue. Ohhh, this pork is out of this world, very strong smoky taste it's tender it's again very soft meat and then honey and lemon on top just explosion of flavors. That smoky taste is really something special. We were about to leave the restaurant but then the owner stopped us and said: &quot;No, no you cannot leave just like that.&quot; So we got complimentary Loukoumades the traditional Greek dessert and also so we got Raki the local spirit that we already tried as this is the custom they bring some complimentary Raki to your table. Ohhh, cinnamon taste really takes over once you take a bite it bursts with that sweet syrup inside nice, warm, beautiful dessert. Gia-mas, gia-mas (yamas)! I think the ending couldn't be better to this lunch at Theriso Village and this restaurant as well. Total price 48.80EUR. We stopped here this is in the middle of the mountain in the middle of the nature, amazing looking local tavern and of course there is always welcoming jug of water the Greek custom our stomachs are full with Staka and all that other food that we ate but now we're going to refresh ourselves with some local squeezed orange juice, lemonade and frappe. Our refreshments are here so gia-mas! We needed this, after a short refreshment we're going to continue our journey so see you at the next place Next stop &quot;Ta Kalamakia&quot;! We are at &quot;Ta Kalamakia&quot; this is the best kalamaki or how they call it in the north: souvlaki place in Chania and they have different types of kalamaki, meat and even Halumi cheese on a skewer. The place is busy everything is fresh and made on the spot. Our grilled bread and Greek salad are here, very fresh and tasty looking salad with very crumbly fat the cheese on top our potatoes are here also and it follows by the assortment of kalamakis and we didn't forget the Tzatziki. Our food is here and we got some French fries they look amazing they're hand cut so in house made and then we got five different types of kalamaki. Tasty looking Halumi then kebab kalamaki then chicken kebab then chicken and of course pork kalamaki and the essential tzatziki dip. Let's start with the pork one. So soft, so tender, juicy the amazing pork taste with that tzatziki and the bread it's a killer! WOW! Next one is, chicken! Even more tender than the pork one not as juicy but just amazing high quality chicken kalamaki. Definitely another WOW! Minced chicken meat, nice juicy again spices, phenomenal! And now the standard edition kebab. Ohhh, this is definitely lamb meat, so tasty, Tzatziki and bread another killer combination. and last but not least grilled Halumi... kalamaki. Ohhh the halumi one even though it's just cheese not meat it's really on level with all the rest of kalamaki this is probably one of the best food testing in my life so far amazing experience and the important factor is that it's all fresh. Not all places around Greece anymore make them on the spot, grilled and fresh but this place keeps to its tradition keeps to its quality and gives you something outstanding. Kalamakis are the most important here but let's try as well this in-house made French fries. Nice chunky bits of salt bits of oregano on top very tasty potato. This was probably one of our best eats of all time a proper kalamaki made fresh, grilled fresh in front of you and this is how it should be done and this place really deserves all the praise run by some hardworking people and we really enjoy the food an amazing experience. We also visited &quot;To Antikristo&quot; the restaurant serving traditional Cretan barbecue but you can watch this in our separate video. This was an incredible adventure on the island of Crete where we enjoyed some truly amazing local foods and some great hospitality I hope you enjoy this video and if you did please like and subscribe and I will see you next time, all the best.