Welcome back to the Gentleman's Gazette! Today's guide is all about Tweed. We discuss the origins, what it is, how to about this wonderful fabric. Tweed began as a handwoven fabric which was The cloth was rough and thick and coarse. And the colors were earthy, because they were Today, tweed is pretty much the same thing. It's this fabric which is rich in color may different shapes and forms, all of which So how did tweed get it's name? Some people claim, it comes from the river the cloth was first woven in the Tweed Valley. Other people claim, tweed is a twist of the Whatever the origins its a wonderful fabric If you want to learn more about the history out our full fledged written guide here. Now, tweed is usually quite heavy and warm. But believe it or not, it used to be the high The English gentry was quick to adopt tweed or fishing under country estates. It was quite enjoyable, it was warm and that So, having layers of warming cloth was actually The tweed fabric was also used for specific used for hunting or golfing or anything else Today, It is rarely used for sport activities even though wool is quite absorbent when it You only see it on vintage lovers when they run which is a bike race specifically dedicated Tweed is named after a multitude of things. It can be a geographical name. It can be named according to the sheep or such as Supasax. First, let's look at the tweed that is named First of all, it is the Cheviot Tweed. Cheviot is a breed of white faced sheep that near the Scottish border. Generally, it is a larger and rougher type It is quite coarse to the touch, such as this Basically, it's a hard wearing fabric and cashmere. It is quite the opposite. Next up we have Shetland Tweed. Which is the jacket I am wearing here right Shetland Tweed is the opposite of cheviot finer and usually have a looser weave. Now, it is hard for you to see, but if you up of a coarser cheviot tweed. And, the jacket, is made of soft shetland it almost feel like night and day. People like the coarser stuff because it is It is usually heavier and it's quite warm. Whereas the soft shetland tweeds are just comfortable So whenever you want something soft, look sheep wool. Now let's discuss the geographically named First off all, the Donegal Tweed. The name of Donegal is derived from the Irish a tweed with knobs as you can see here. Rather than having a plain fabric, you see you have pink or green or something very outlandish is every casual and very elegant from a country Personally, I am a huge fan of Donegal tweed, when combined with a herringbone pattern. Next up is Saxony tweed. In the middle ages, it was forbidden for the Now in the mid 18th century, that law was there were over 4 million sheep. Of course they would make fabric out of that Today, Saxony tweed is defined by a short It is usually quite soft. Generally, it is made from a Merino wool today a jacket fabric. Certainly, the most well known tweed today It is another geographically named tweed which It was first introduced to the English aristocracy very popular in English Society. So in 1909 The first British mark or trademark It is said that only tweed woven in the Outer It is still the case today, so whenever you woven in the Outer Hebrides. A few years ago, Harris tweed was close to And, if you want to learn more about this guider here. Harris tweed usually has a twill weave and Apart from sheep and geography, you also have Gamekeeper tweed is a heavier fabric usually It is made for cold weathers, so it is quite It really got its name from the people who Sporting tweeds or Hunting tweeds were developed on one hand, that the colors are chosen On the other hand, a hunting tweed jacket you could easily hold your rifle and it wouldn't Hunting tweed jackets also have little features up your jacket in case it got really windy Another really interesting tweed is the so two ply wool yarns which are supposed to be go through a thorn it may poke through, but It's a wonderful fabric if you are out and or maybe thorns. Because the little punctures won't hurt after a long day out. Supasax is a Saxony tweed used to be made it had been discontinued for a while. I think it is back now, though I really prefer depth and wonderful patterns. Next up let's talk about tweed patterns. The most basic tweed is a plain twill weave It has these ridges that are quite wide they for a plain twill tweed. Another option is the so called Overcheck now. It's still a twill weave but not as pronounced overcheck. I really like this tweed because it has this and with a rust, it's perfect for an autumn Tweed jackets are always are always single They are never double breasted because they have been too warm. One of the most popular and basic tweed patterns Herringbone is named that way because it's Basically, a herringbone is a twill weave, here but the rows are adjusted to go up and herringbone pattern. Apart form a plain herringbone jacket, you an overplaid or an overcheck. Adding a check to a herringbone pattern can usually a jacket that people have once they their wardrobe. Another popular tweed pattern that's good so called Barleycorn. it's called that way because upon closer Striped tweeds incorporate vertical lines Oftentimes they are in contrasting colors, Striped tweeds are not overly popular and Check patterns can be manifold. You can have really like a microcheck as you can have something like this jacket with houndstooth You get a houndstooth in a brown and beige You can combine it easily with beige tones, casual nature inspired color. A Houndstooth resembles the back teeth of Hunters also cam to realize that it can be are chosen closely to nature. So not that you know all the different kinds The question remains, how do you actually First of all it's not just for professors It can be worn by anybody. Because of its weight and warmth, its particularly otherwise, you simply overheat. If you live in a climate that's about 40 below, the tweed coat is a wonderful addition If you're not sure about the tweed jacket, For example, I am wearing an Irish tweed tie It's a fantastic investment because even can combine it with a multitude of jackets They are also quite warm and can even be worn If you are new to tweed and you are not quite color. For example, the jacket I am wearing here right It has some Donegal flecks and it's definitely you'll have that's made of flannel or It pairs well with lots of items including it gives this casual, relaxed feel. If you don't want to go with a solid tone. You could go with something like this, Microcheck Of course, herringbone also looks really well For a second jacket, you may want to invest But personally, I also think you can be a greens or burgundies, mustard yellows or different all and it's meant to be different. Now that you know the basics of what tweed to know when not to wear a tweed. If you are in a traditional white collar environment, It's simply too casual and it's also too Moreover, it's not suited for any kind of more of a country fabric and it's not primarily Of course today, you can wear tweed in the Especially when it's cold outside. But just stay away from formal events, especially You might have noticed in all the outfits change my shirt and that's because it's kind almost any kind of tweed coat. You should definitely avoid white shirts because But this tone is perfect for tweed. For even more information about tweed please And if you enjoyed this video sign articles like this right to your inbox.