The American Revolution was the seminal moment the Enlightenment and would usher in an it was never intended to become so. That a dispute shocked everyone involved, and forever changed to the beginning of our series on the American miscommunication, misunderstanding, and missed Technically as this began when someone in going around the back of the world. The world part right - and there's no better way to These globes come in loads of different styles, sailors rushing back and forth between imperial historic look doesn't cut it, jump to the future like developed from NASA photography. The Is Earth too close to home? Get a variety of other fourty designs in all. Whichever you pick, you'll they rotate on their own. Exposure to ambient and earth's own magnet field, allows these making a beautiful ornament even more impressive. Take a look at their selection at KINGSANDGENERALS to get ten percent off either for yourself or as a great The Core Problem that led to war between Britain and her colonial North American to Europe on a typical sailing ship a month assuming calm seas, favorable winds, and not months to a voyage. Additionally, the north return trip would take at least twice as wind for a direct return, or sail down to Africa in a crisis, local authorities in the Americas months before British authorities arrived on by barely trying to govern its colonies at colonies along with government powers, the private individuals and/or joint stock companies. and administration in New England, London barely resources to pay appointed governors or station suited the colonists, who were left to manage London didn't even attempt to enforce he known as salutary neglect, lasted 70 years . Colonies just weren't valuable enough as colonies by the Thirteen Colonies paled in comparison Lakes and Hudson's Bay. Canada in turn paled accounted for 4% of Britain's total gross national the Caribbean and Canadian colonies over the of army regulars in North America to exceed four to protect trading posts and deter the French in and small coastal garrisons, with New York as the protection for the American colonies against Everything Changes Facing a reinforced and aggressive New France and northern colonies met in Albany on June 19th were representatives of the Iroquois Confederacy, colonists were desperate to secure. Despite the commit to fighting the French, instead opting colonies. Next, the delegates' attention turned in Benjamin Franklin's Albany Plan of Union. Colonial delegates, it was unanimously rejected much to Franklin's frustration. The former it gave too much. Despite these setbacks, the 13 colonies was possible, even desirable. to British Field Marshal Jeffery Amherst, ending celebrated their rival's fall, especially since settlements west of the Appalachian Mountains, but their indigenous allies. However, with that threat the Ohio River valley, was now theirs for the earlier conquest of French Arcadia had resulted and the ongoing Seven Years War was draining was another war. Thus, it needed to very quickly Secondly, the conquest had brought all of the great victory, the fur trade relied on indigenous relations, trade was impossible. Britain had with various native tribes by allying with the now gone and it was now entirely on the British the fur trade. Unfortunately for London, these now the military governor of Canada. Amherst Canadiens and French allied tribes poorly . This, ignited Pontiac's War in April 1763, led British. London finally realized that, 156 years actually take the policy lead in North America. Preventing conflict was the first step. To this royal proclamation to allay the Indian's fears. too late to prevent Pontiac's War. However, replacement Thomas Gage an opening offer 1763 first established governments for newly divided British North America into three pieces: and Indian Territory. British settlers were tribe's rights to their land was acknowledged. to respect Indian land. This wasn't actually settlements in North America. However, it would the rights to do so through purchase from the without angering the Indians, who they were caused outrage in the colonies. It ignored their the colonial settlements that already Pontiac's War and fears of a French reconquest of in North America. Paying for this required new the Whig government of George Grenville decided do this was the Sugar Act of 1764, which was Act. This drew some protests from New England most colonists simply ignored or dodged the tax. actual anger. The Act required that all a revenue stamp certifying its legality. this was the first direct tax placed on any April 1764 but not enacted until March 1765. as the delay in the act's implementation allowed colonies learned of the Act's passing in early May from Nova Scotia to Jamaica made clear their the strong Royal Navy garrison kept protests the tax. However, the continental colonies all saw of both tax collectors and the prime minister. peaceful street demonstrations organized by the Samuel Adams, it quickly escalated to violence. their houses and offices attacked, and even the from his official residence. However, it was New to the Stamp Act. In addition to refusing to a boycott of British goods, the coordination of in October held in New York City. It also sent a Declaration of Rights and colonial protests over the next ten years. The since they were English and guaranteed the subject to taxation from elected governments. They them. Moreover, they had natural rights as human eventually became the continental rallying This declaration posed a huge threat to technically true . During the winter of virtual representation solved the problem, and the colonies. This loss of credibility fall of Grenville's government in July 1765. repeal, the next battle loomed. Simultaneous with stating that Parliament had the same powers in to try again, and now Townshend had his personal five Townshend Acts were passed. These acts were control of trade, and punish New York for riots in Boston and widespread boycotts. At the legislatures began to send petitions to King rights as Englishmen. The petitions went nowhere, However, most alarming was the Circular by the Massachusetts assembly in February unconstitutionally in continuing to tax the sent to other legislatures, to their approval. In ordered Massachusetts to withdraw the letter. assembly dissolved and sent two thousand The Boston Massacre and a half, especially in occupied and resentful boiled over. A guard on duty outside the Custom apprentice , eventually hitting him with his the guard. The crowd kept growing and he retreated Preston soon arrived with seven soldiers and Instead, the crowd started throwing snowballs, innkeeper Richard Palmes, carrying a cudgel, muskets were loaded. Preston said they were, a missile knocked down Private Hugh Montgomery. fire!" and fired. Palmes then swung his cudgel also hitting his arm. After a pause , the rest died instantly, and two more would die of their a full riot seemed imminent. Order was only the Custom House and promised an investigation. found guilty of manslaughter. News of the incident anti-Parliament propaganda, with Paul Revere's most well known. The propaganda worked, and North Comes to Power the recently appointed Tory Prime Minister Lord citing lack of revenue they generated. However, intact, and further signaled to the colonies that backing down. In response, the colonies continued first set up by the Sons of Liberty to became more active and spread to more colonies. it looked like the conflict might be allowed to In May 1773, the Tea Act was passed. Not a tax, the right to sell unlimited tea to the Thirteen it for what the North intended it to be: a ploy and implicitly accepting Parliament's right to tea to be landed in their ports. Boston went December 16th. This was the final straw for North, to put the colonies in their place. Massachusetts The fuse of revolution was now lit. At the next session of Parliament , The first four , called the Coercive Acts, all placing it under military governance, allowing than local ones, and requiring more extensive Gage was appointed governor of Massachusetts Boston and move his headquarters there, which produce the results London intended. Gage had only occasionally returning to Britain, and was He would try to separate his duties as governor It was the fifth act that would prove most Unrelated to the Coercive Acts but passed at parts of colonial society, even Parliament's the Act restored rights to Catholics in and most importantly, expanded Quebec's forever denying it to the American colonists drove many previously moderate loyalist Americans The First Continental Congress every colony but Georgia met in Philadelphia issuing the Declaration of Rights , they agreed boycott of British imports, and to pressure the then adjourned with an agreement to reconvene the The boycott quickly put enormous pressure on king solidly behind him, North refused to budge Whether the boycott could have worked will never Even before arriving in Boston, Gage realized 3,000 soldiers in Boston, which was more than far too few to control the countryside. He was authority or resources to change his situation. but couldn't negotiate with them either. ability to fight would reduce their resistance. to seize the Powder House, the largest a few miles northwest of Boston. After capturing a contingent stopped in Cambridge to seize two militiamen swarmed Cambridge, acting on rumors This forced several prominent loyalists to As facts became clearer, the militia dispersed, swiftness and scale of the response . He didn't by the Sons of Liberty, now led by Dr. Joseph moving their militia stores further inland, away their unseized cannons out of Boston to Concord the lost stores. Recognizing the situation, Gage Unfortunately, Parliament had contrary plans. Houses of Parliament that a state of rebellion Secretary of State William Legge ordered Gage disband the Massachusetts assembly and arrest but it was to be done as quickly as possible. American revolution, Paul Revere will go on will clash with the British at Bunker make sure you are subscribed and press subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals