Welcome to the World of Antiquity and I am answering voicemails. "Hello, David. This is Raphael from France. that were involved to build the huge megalithic in South America and around the I received another similar voicemail from "Hello, Dr. Miano. Greetings from Poland. I would like to ask about how they had been doing it, what technique they the globe, if they were not interconnected, and A lot of people seem to be interested the term polygonal masonry is used to describe more than four sides. When looking at or the majority of the stones, are in the The corners are not cut in right angles except masonry generally incorporates natural stone, the processed in such a way that they become irregular on the front side of the structure. A feature of mortar, and it possesses sufficient strength and stone blocks were not held in place by cramps or strength of the walls derived exclusively from the In the archaeological record, the polygonal Greece, with the oldest remains having been found This technique of building walls used method between that of the cyclopean walls of but now it is realized that it as the squared-ashlar walls and is In the Greek world, the classical polygonal city walls, ramparts, bases, basements, and It was particularly popular during the 5th albeit more sporadically, Although it was never the most common it was common enough that we still Some polygonal masonry is crude, others refined, the stones have straight sides, Certain characteristics of polygonal masonry "polygonal work with straight edges" or "coursed Lesbian masonry because it is centered on the Lesbian work is that the edges and joints of the polygonal masonry can be observed at every one secondary sites; no other region provides so many appropriate to think of Lesbian masonry as its own of classical polygonal masonry. Then again, the polygonal masonry is one of degree; no polygonal rectilinear blocks. But very few polygonal walls One excellent example of polygonal "Lesbian" Delphi on the mainland: the great temenos, a steep boundary wall, constituting a Polygonal "Lesbian" masonry was most popular appeared a century before. By the 4th century Walls were one of the greatest expenses of a Greek been particularly time-consuming and expensive. It A bevel, an angle-measuring tool with rigid arms, generally straight sides. But curved The significant work involved in and the considerable skill required of reason for the gradual move towards and the laying of continuous courses of masonry, a Polygonal masonry walls are found in Italy too. the use of mortar and are found throughout Usually, they are not freestanding, but used of contexts, including fortifications, funerary monuments, cisterns, towers, and What I've shown you so far are ancient examples want to know about the fortress of Saqsayhuaman, Inca Empire in its heyday. The dismantling of after the first Spaniards reached Cuzco. Yes, though the outer wall was never quite finished. fortress after it was used and abused as a quarry about the site already is because it's not an which would make it contemporary with That's out of my time period. Now yes, there Saqsayhuaman are older and date it to prehistoric But I keep getting questions about it, so Historical records credit the design over a period of years: Huallpa Rimachi, It was begun in the reign of Pachacuti, or perhaps his son See these smaller stones filled You may sometimes see on the internet people this fortress, and they point to these stones constitute Inca repair work and therefore the But by simply asking around, doing some reading, would realize that these smaller stones are Ancient Architects noted this on his channel. - This stonework we can see here is modern the Inca period, and this was done to tidy up of Saqsayhuaman. This is shown when you compare You can clearly see where the walls have to stop soil creeping down the hill, to - There are three, staggered sawtooth walls. were built first, and the first wall, which designed slightly differently, was built Some of the masonry here is consistent with the and so doesn't require any special explanation, some of them weighing several one of the cornerstones, is about 120 tons. The and they fit very close to each The fact that they are almost perfectly fit decide that the stones were formed or cast from a been proposed. But why would the designers choose is a lot of ready-to-use material around - natural for polygonal masonry? And why would they use That method would have worked uniform size. I'm not convinced by the to a video that goes into this issue in more Probably the foremost expert on Inca architecture who died earlier this year. It would have been numerous books and articles on the subject. research on the topic is the architect Vincent methods used to make the polygonal masonry at program NOVA to talk about his theories. He's best answer possible, so I contacted Vince Lee to - I've talked to a lot of people who have &quot;Oh the Inca - they couldn't have built you know, &quot;It must have come from some ancient Just in general, what do you think - Well, I would... I don't buy into any of ancients were just as smart as we are, and in doing than we would be trying to do the same and so I'm sure they had all sorts big stones and so forth that we've since lost and yet. So I... that's all nonsense. They were just they did everything that we find in - Yeah, yeah, and I agree with you. Okay, the stones - what are they made out - Well, the work at Saqsayhuaman - That's right. - Yeah, yeah well it's kind of... It's all called and the hillsides up behind the monument, that are scattered with outcrops of and in fact, quite a bit of it, if you go far north of the site. The chroniclers talk about including some that were very far away and very for the big monoliths, and it's often unclear in the northern terraces specifically, monument itself, which included a great hill and on the other sides of the hill from lot of that stone came from Rumicolca, which below Cuzco and so forth, and other places as the stone in the northern terraces came from the - And how far would that have been away - Well, the uh... if you go... - Oh, I mean approximately. - Yeah, yeah, if you look on Google Earth, got outcrops of exactly the same kind of places there is some evidence that there might of course, densely inhabited by farmers evidence has gone away. Ephraim Squier, before all that more recent development and he said there was evidence of - Oh, okay. And then, what would quarrying the stone? Like, how did - Well, one of the interesting things about civilizations that built a lot of stuff what we would call, actual quarrying, that is boulders and so forth, talus slides and scree apart, eroding and so forth, that they had and almost all of their work was done by simply the ground, digging them out of the ground and them out of bedrock the way the Egyptians, - I see, okay now... - That also, by the way, in my opinion, it gives polygonal stone work, because in addition to the weren't in a position to chop rectangular or did they not do that, but the stones that they did only tool they had for... and they were often very Ollantaytambo is rhyolite, Saqsayhuaman is this stones, and a bronze chisel, which the Incas had, to use a hammer stone, much like the Egyptians the hammerstones are found all over the place, they were just bashing away the unwanted material, if you had a funny place in the wall to fill, find a stone about that size and shape and bash - I see. Did they bring the stones kind of of finished them? Or how much work did they - Well, I guess, you know, a lot of the answers but it seems to me the obvious bash away as much unnecessary material as so that you have less weight to move in order of course, if you've ever been to - I've never been there. - Oh, oh, you've got to go. - I want to. - Oh, it's a major Inca site that was abandoned and all of what they were doing in the quarry look for, and the quarry was a long ways from the quarry of stones being roughly shaped - Oh excellent, yeah, so then how would - That's another way in which the Incas other cultures that did so much work with stone. by the Incas is a drawing in the book by Guaman in which he shows a picture of a stone being with ropes tied around the stone, and apparently hollering at them with some chroniclers say that the Incas tended to but it sounds a little fanciful when you at Saqsayhuaman. However, my good friend architect like us, who's done a lot of... did a he did a lot of work on this, and he closely including the stones that were abandoned in Ollantaytambo, and by the way, some of the stones so what he found would apply to stones of the size side one of the broad sides had typically been edges were often turned up, beveled up, so as to on to the side, so he could examine this convex indicating which direction it had been pulled in, And so there's a famous one right alongside the It just looks like a great big stone boat, and long column, presumably of pullers. - So just dragging it, huh? - Unbelievable. And we've done, he and I, - Yeah, how many men would you need? - Well, one of the examples that I just mentioned includes three that are in a direct line. The because it's out in the middle of these three stones were being dragged one in And so what I did is: I went out there, and I good approximate... a pretty good weight for each that we still find in the quarry and going about six meters wide, and so that gives you some And then if you measure the - Go ahead. - If you measure the distance between the second the second stone in line, you get a feel for how So you end up with a rectangle of space about the stones that you can fill with pullers, you don't know exactly how far apart they were but if you give them each a meter, for example, and if you apply that to the weight of the directly on the ground, you come up with and if you apply those numbers, then you get, take the stone and multiply its tonnage by ten, - I see. Why didn't they... I think i read somewhere - it might have been you Why wouldn't they just put them on logs - Well, they... for one thing, and you know the quarry that I'm talking about just... and it's a giant talus field is it turns out that it takes a lot of time to use rollers and that sort of thing. You know, of work with big rocks, you know, in the field, and stuff like that. Rollers are very difficult to they all have to be perfectly straight, they perfectly flat, and all of these conditions Even the Egyptians very seldom, I think, used inside the monuments, where they could they were rolling around on paved surfaces it's very hard to make rollers work. They bunch there's the slightest angle off to the side, or the the load immediately tries to turn that way, So it takes a lot of work and a lot of effort dragging stones for a long distance, it's almost apparently had enough workers and so forth so they - Mmm hmm. All right. Let's talk about Now, I read you came up with this Could you explain a little bit about that? And is - It is still my view, but it takes a little you would drag all these stones to a rather than try to show up one stone at a time, a particular stone was going, and the guys at course they were assembling a wall, and they had was a large supply of stones in the storage yard directly from the quarry right to the job site. organized in such a way that the foreman could they were currently working on at that moment. really brings into focus three possible methods of course, and if you read the Spanish chronicles In fact, that's the one they describe as being None of the chroniclers talk about, except for Saqsayhuaman, so they're really talking about the are stones we call one- or two-man stones. You but they're not that heavy. And it turns out that in the quarries down at Rumicolca, down the and he showed that by pre-shaping the next stone chopping away a surface, a seat for it to sit and setting that pre-finished upper stone in you can see a pattern in the dust that shows where out, you chop away at those high points a little and you find fewer and fewer high points, and if a perfect fit. So he did that with two blocks, these were stones easy to move, and easy therefore What he didn't do: he didn't fit a bedding joint, rising stone at the same time, which if you study was what was being done all the time. The walls clear that the upper stone was led into the one big l-shaped joint. And he didn't do that, but so that it wouldn't fall off, you know, and then space touching both the rising and the bedding he showed that, yes indeed, there's a place to fit by trial and error, and it's not all that hard, they got there, because they hired the... well, forced the Inca masonries to build more walls built after the arrival of the Spaniards but by and they knew how it was done. The problem with is that we don't know of any easy way to a big stone that was available to the Incas. There to move them, move a big stone in and out of disturb this pattern in the dust: that work that's where the high points are, and I don't know of stones of Hatunrumiyoc, for example, right down in don't think they had any method of doing that that and so it's very unclear to me exactly how the to use the same method on the big - I see, so you are leaning away thinking that might not be the way they did it? - I just don't see how that they had the with a huge stone like those time-consuming and unbelievably genius and so you know, if you try to imagine doing even using the methods they had available, - Yeah, yeah. - Okay, so many people have suggested by using templates of some sort, using some and presumably the template is lighter-weight, same method, but you're using something like a - I see. - The problem with that is you would have to then you would have to make a perfect that's accurate to tolerances of a millimeter. you'd have to make a perfect positive impression impression would be the object you would and it would have to be a lightweight enough to the shrinkage of dry weather, the expansion of God knows how many times, by a rough construction to make such a template out of? I'm unaware of - So if it's not trial and error, and it's - Well, I was, as you know, I'm an architect, Jacksonville, Wyoming, and I was trained back east this was back in the early 60s, they were still And I watched the old log scribers put logs these guys are scribing these logs together, and error involved. They take a lumpy-shaped log, and and they roll it into place one time, and it guys give them, you know, hell about it; the And so I said, well, that's exactly what I wonder how that process could be transferred came from. And of course, scribing is a by people that aren't building log stone wall in your house, and you want to put a carpenter will do is, on that side of the wood and then he will take that construction, set it very much like a craftsman's compass, and it has except it will have a level on it so that and he'll just run that compass down the face of of the rock keeping the level-bubble centered, and of the face of the rock on that widened board, and that pencil line and slides the construction - Well, what if you're fitting, three... well, it would be three - Yeah. - So if they did it with - Yeah, let's start with the lowest You've seen pictures, and all the joints between straight, vertical joints, and that's where except at the corners, and that's another... corner because that's the weak point in a zigzag But anyway, the lowest course at Saqsayhuaman more-or-less vertical straight joints. I'll that's the easiest way to imagine using my method set them far enough apart where several guys can of course, is you've picked two stones that because again you want to chop as little as - Yeah. - Okay, you set them next to each other and then what you do is you start chopping that is initially slightly longer than the longest at those two surfaces, so that no matter where you - Ah. - Now the ends of the stick have to be... the two stones... the two pieces of the stone So that tells you that the stick, just like has to be kept level and straight. It's got to have the same orientation and space and on the fork you put a plum bob that - Ah, that's how they did leveling - Exactly, exactly, and I found plum bobs. I had had them all over the place. And you also have and you do that by starting at the outer an edge joint on each stone and then carefully so that the distance back to each end of the stone two things, and you do this very, very carefully, - That's right, yeah, and it should fit, right? Yeah. And then you just - Right, right, exactly, and the other thing to any difference whether the surfaces are flat. They'll have a certain warp to them that follows - But isn't it harder to do one on top, - Right. That's where you get into the hard part. in that case you have to scribe the rising You can't do one and then the other. And what being in a horizontal position, your scribe is so that you go down the rising face and just go meanwhile keeping the same distance from - It'd be just like if it was a - Exactly. - Yeah, yeah. - Exactly, and that's why if you look at those always a round corner. It's never a square in Inca work. In fact, that's a whole 'nother - Wouldn't you have to hold the rock up above - The rock has to be placed so that you can use would do that is you would suspend the stone, the from the side of the rising face of the seat that the upper stone, and then you would prop it up original paper, the one that you've read, of wants to go under there and do anything, let - So you came up with a better idea. - Yeah, well, yeah, the better idea is that you and the rear of the stone that you have and only the front edge, the edge that and the wall is backfilled, the front log posts. And that's the other thing at you will see many of the stones have sort of, you pockets along the lower faces of the stone. the lower face of the stone, and so all of those could support the stone in this position that... &quot;Oh my god. Those stones are too heavy. They you take an 8-inch, 10-inch log on end - it will wood in that configuration, where it's not is a very strong material. Even soft wood you know, it's a thousand pounds per square thing, you're talking thousands of pounds: are usually at least three, or sometimes more, of going through getting it there, and putting the end, and then finally lowering the stone - all people like the Incas that were clearly very undoable at all. They're not difficult. - Very interesting. Yeah, that seems to be would get good at it enough where they could - The thing about it is that at least you're You're not trying to move it, you know, - Yeah, because that's the hardest part. - Who knows how many times you have - Yeah, very interesting. It's a magnificent the funny thing about it is: it's so impressive theories about how the Inca couldn't have done most difficult part would just be to figure out - These guys were wizards at messing with a luminous material. I mean it wasn't That's why Inca stone masonry is not carved or you know, it's not used like other people did. they just left them raw, you know, or with their Catch it in the right light and so forth, and it, and yet they are absolutely gorgeous. When Holy shit, did these guys have their And you'll find, you'll also find, stones... building these walls right on cliffs, you know, 300-foot cliff at the bottom, and then the first and the rest of the stones go up, so they didn't they managed to do it, so these guys had serious - If you'd like to read any of Vince's material you can find it on his website.www.vince-lee.com. As for the question about whether there is some masonry work around the world, keep in mind that from their historical contexts - by ignoring between them, the surrounding features, the that they were developed independently, just as The Inca architects of Sacsayhuaman They created a masterpiece of The layout of the walls into the hillside show great sophistication and a respect for the its features and integrating the man-made with a stunning testimony to the organizational skills The walls are monumental and imposing, but also They're fantastic. The Inca clearly wanted to If anyone else would like to leave me a at speakpipe.com/DavidMiano. I can't guarantee It depends on how many I get and what you ask times, or about medieval times, I am less likely and how interesting I think the general Thanks for watching. We'll see you next time.