Money. Some have it. Some Don't. Some have mastered it. Most are still chasing it. You may think of money as just numbers, and Or An equation that needs to be solved. But The real financial decisions are made - with ego, pride, fear and personal history. The true nature of money is the dance between nature. When it comes to money we are complicated much about how much you know but how you behave. This video was inspired by Morgan Housel's Let's delve into the strange and human side Financial DNA We all come from different generations, with different values, living in various parts environments with varying incentives and varying experiences towards money. Take for example the stock market and inflation. People born in 1970 saw an almost tenfold and 20s, leading most to have a positive view to invest. People born in 1950 saw the stock market go a more negative view of the stock market and People born in the 1960s experienced significant to a higher awareness and more negative view People born in 1990 experienced relatively to less concern and awareness of its effects. A person's experience with the stock market greatly shapes their attitudes and behavior People justify every financial decision they that moment and their mental model of the their parents and is shaped by their unique Although they can be misinformed, lack information sense to them in that moment and align with According to Housel, "People do some crazy But no one is crazy." We all have unique worldviews and since there successfully, none of us are crazy. WE MAKE FINANCIAL DECISIONS BASED ON OUR PERSONAL Compound Kings There is no doubt that Warren Buffett is considered What is staggering is that $81.5 billion of earned after he reached his mid-sixties. Housel explains that "few pay enough attention isn't due to just being a good investor, a child." As a result of investing from the early age of compounding. Let's say you invest $1,000 at an interest Your initial investment would earn you $80 If you compounded your total of $1080 at 8% $86.4 You've earned money on your initial investment principal. An investment compounded over time gains interest also from the interest generated on top of The counterintuitive nature of compounding results can be. Compounding, however, can help you earn more Warren Buffett began serious investing at age 30. Let's imagine an alternate reality where men in their 20's and used a lot of his If he started with a net worth of $25,000 to generate the amazing average returns of around $11.9 million (99.9% less than his Warren Buffett's financial success can be in his early years and his longevity in investing. His skill is investing, but his secret to Consider this from another perspective. The richest investor of all time is Warren However In terms of average returns, he is Jim Simons, for instance, is a hedge fund 66% annually since 1988. A much higher rate than Buffet. The net worth of Simons however is 21 billion How is this possible? According to Housel, the reason for this is in investing until he was 50 years old. Effectively giving him less than half as many Housel estimates that if he had invested over today would be..... "sixty-three quintillion nine hundred quadrillion hundred eighty billion seven hundred and forty-eight ($63,900,781,780,748,160,000) It's important not to underestimate the power No matter how counterintuitive the results be ignored. Pessimism and money. Optimism is a belief that the odds of a good if there are setbacks along the way, but when pessimism that we hold dear in our hearts. Looking back however, things have generally So what is it about pessimism that we are The answer is because GOOD THINGS TAKE TIME Money is a subject that attracts pessimism Let's start with the fact that money matters When we hear about something bad happening For example, a 40% decline in the stock market immediately and may even attract government However The incremental nature of a 140% gain Every year, half a million American lives the last 50 years. Slow progress, however, attracts less attention plane crashes, and natural disasters. There are many overnight tragedies, but few To be practical, we don't have to be pessimistic. Despite setbacks, we can hold onto the belief are in our favor. When watching the news highlighting a stock problems - try to remember that things tend Two Forgotten Elements. In 1968, there were roughly 300 million high-school-age 300 students attended a small school in Seattle Lakeside happened to be the only high school with the foresight to lease a computer, the This was no ordinary computer, it was advanced even Graduate students didn't have access And for one lucky student at Lakeside this That student was Bill Gates. From 300 million to 300. In 1968 there was roughly a one in a million access to a computer. Bill Gates and his school mate Paul Allen, Even as a teenager, Gates showed exceptional computers unlike anyone else. But going to Lakeside also gave him a one-in-a-million And Gates is not shy about this, in 2005 he there would have been no Microsoft," What is not often mentioned in the early Microsoft high-school computer prodigies. Kent Evans. Just as intelligent, just as visionary. Kent could very well have been one of the Allen. However, that would never happen. A mountaineering accident took Kent's life The odds of a high school student being killed in a million. Just as the extremely rare stroke of luck great success. Kent Evans would experience an extremely rare the close sibling of luck, risk. Luck and risk are like the wind and the waves The sailor can control the rudder and the of the boat are influenced by external factors The pursuit of success is full of twists and shaping our lives is an important perspective Understanding that Success is a complex combination can help us approach our own financial decisions The Key to Happiness. People want to become wealthier to make themselves to happiness is the ability to do what you as long as you want" The pursuit of material wealth has led to control over their time, despite being richer However, studies show that having control of positive feelings of wellbeing, more than Ultimately, controlling your time is the highest Pursuing money without valuing time is like No matter how much water you pour in, it will Similarly, no matter how much money you accumulate, have control over your time and can't enjoy Tail Events Heinz Berggruen, a man who fled Nazi Germany most successful art dealers of all time. He collected a massive amount of art, including and Matisse. In 2000, he sold part of his collection for What was his secret to acquiring so many masterpieces? Was it skill, Was it luck? According to Horizon, a Research firm, great onto them for a long period of time. They wait for a few of those paintings to even though most of the paintings they bought In other words, it's not about being right and waiting for a few winners to emerge. Perhaps 99% of the works someone like Berggruen turned out to be of little value. He could be wrong most of the time, But that 1% turn out to be the work of someone like These events are known as long tails. When a small number of events can account The long tails of Berggruen's art collection The story of Berggruen teaches us a valuable concept also applies to many aspects of business The obvious example is Venture Capital. Most of the startups in a VC fund will fail need are a few outlier startups which make ____________________ Take Amazon, for instance. In 2018, it drove 6% of the return on the If we look inside Amazon. Its growth was largely driven by two tail These two products alone more than made up such as the Fire Phone or travel agencies. After the disastrous release of the Amazon Jeff Bezos said: "If you think that's a big failure, we're I am not kidding. Some of them are going to make the Fire Phone Bezos understands that it is OK to make mistakes creates the 1% of Tail event products that Tail events are mostly unintuitive and hidden and not all the failures along the way that Housel in the book uses a real life example When you are watching the Netflix special is amazing. What you aren't seeing are all the trial and out in small clubs all around the country The Netflix special is the 1% compendium of people laugh. 99% of the jokes along the way were probably When it comes to investing Even though long When things go wrong, we tend to overreact. As soon as you accept that tails drive everything lots of things may go wrong, fail or fall Remember: Out of the nearly 500 stocks Warren Buffet of his money. Good Stock pickers will only be right half Good leaders will only make good decisions The fact that you might be wrong sometimes time. In the end, the outcome can be determined True Wealth VS Being Rich It's so important to understand the difference is about your current income and the things assets you have yet to spend. True wealth isn't what you see, but what you It's easy to assume that someone driving a be deceiving. In reality, many individuals are living beyond flashy lifestyles. Wealth isn't about the cars you drive, the those financial assets that you have yet to Accumulating wealth takes self-control and The diamonds, watches, and first-class upgrades wealth. It's easy to find rich role models who spend harder to imitate. We're conditioned to believe that having money building wealth is to save and invest the In fact, the only way to be wealthy is to The next time you see someone driving a fancy you can't judge wealth by appearances alone. The true key to wealth is self-control, restraint, The Real Price Imagine you are climbing a mountain with the amazing view. Maybe you will get sunshine that day, maybe You may get lost, you might fall and injure not always apparent until you're in the thick From the ground looking up the path to take certainly need to reassess and change your You are under no illusion however that there take you to the peak. You understand before the climb that this have to pay to get to the top. But when it comes to investing in the stock uncertainty and risk and get something for Housel likens the stock market to getting If you want to get a car, you have three options. You can buy a new car, buy a used one, or The new car is a higher price, but the reward Think of the new car like aiming for 12% returns The used car is cheaper, but also comes with The used car is like a much safer investment Stealing a car, is like trying to get something 99% of people would avoid stealing the car However when it comes to the stock market, they can take option three, and steal from They try all kinds of tricks and strategies the price. Attempting to sell right before a dip or buy Consider, for example, wanting to earn an for your retirement. From 1950 to 2019, the Dow Jones Industrial Over those 69 years however, of course there For many the sight of their investments going to get in and out quickly, without paying the long term, akin to trying to steal the The price you must pay is not just about dollars the emotions that volatility, fear and risk Recognizing that successful investing comes This price is not immediately obvious, but any other product. The key is to convince yourself that the market's worth paying. There's no guarantee that it will be, but never enjoy the experience. Be willing to pay the price once you Hedonic Treadmills (enough) Know when enough is enough. Become familiar with the concept of Hedonic Every time you hit the goal, you keep moving You need only look at the demise of Bernie everything and were ultra-wealthy. But All the money in the world would never to make even more money. The pursuit of wealth and success without like climbing a never-ending ladder. No matter how high one climbs, there is always can become all-consuming, leading to a lack and fulfillment.