My name is Skipp Townsend. of the Rollin' 20 Avenue Bloods out of LA, and I was active for over 27 years. And this is how crime works. As a Blood gang member, willing to die or be killed When the feud goes, it's and the statement is I do not believe anybody won because every neighborhood Main rivals for Bloods Getting on the bus at 13 years old, the average person back then, we're going to the back of the bus. That's where the, &quot;Where are you from?&quot; or, &quot;What you looking at?&quot; or, If there were a group that was maybe five or six, seven deep and said they were from that's where it started. That's where the fight's going to come. And that's how I became willing to fight back. And that was in 1977. I joined a movement. And the movement was to not That was 1980. When I'm walking home I was on Crenshaw and 59th Street, and the Rollin' 60s had It was about 15 of them. They had beat me to the point where I was unconscious for a second. And then when I jumped one guy followed me, and That was a horrible experience, but I'm glad I lived through it. What Hollywood thinks is that there's some people handing out guns to each other saying, &quot;Man, we about to go shoot this up.&quot; And that's just not the case. Most of the shootings are emotions. You know, somebody's with somebody stole somebody's car, somebody got beat up at they're going to be at You know, the gang wars was not just a table of guys strategizing, like, &quot;Who are we going to shoot next?&quot; So, back in the '80s, most of the individuals had .38 Specials. They had a revolver that only They would have a .22. And now nobody has the They have SKs and ARs and they have 30-round clips. They can shoot 30 times So that changed everything. And that's when LA and it was hard to survive. The beefs now are Most of the beefs are someone said something, and they're really tough Whereas we actually had So the beefs are totally than it was back when I was younger. Drive-bys were happening every day. I could tell you the time waiting on one of my friends, and a guy came down the and I started walking in the and the closer he got, He was coming to do a drive-by. And I'm looking at the Didn't know who he was. It was war zone. You know, there's an that we call Iraq. You know, we call it Iraq because right here on a father and son had got shot together in front of their house. You know, I mean, stuff Every day I wake up, I don't That's why so many That's why I carried because I did not know. Was I going to have to use the Not to just intentionally but I just want to go home every night. The Crips chose the color blue, so red was just the opposite of blue. And also red stands out. There's something here lets you know that we're brighter than you and not hiding. I didn't have to have on any they'd be like, &quot;Oh, OK, You know, and they would know, But we didn't -- you know, some people who would wear red shoes, red shoestrings, red belt, red shirt, red hat. For me, it was doing The terminology really, you know, it progressed over the years. Everything would be Bmoke a bigarette, drive eat a bandy bar, have a bup of boffee. Everything was terminology used as a B. No. 1 Blood sign is this right here. But then this is also a So, but different neighborhoods See if I can still do this. So, this right here is disrespectful, and I don't mean to disrespect anybody, but this is a C with So if you didn't know instead of giving them your which is to see if they're offended by it. Producer: &quot;CK&quot; stands for &quot;Crip killer,&quot; right? Yes. Producer: And you don't want to say that. For me at my age, I don't want to do that. But I do want to say that, you know, if anybody's offended by me I just wanted to show I think the music industry in promoting gang culture. Made it prevalent. Made it glorified. Just the rhythm. The rhythm, and the excitement and hearing a Ice Cube, or a Snoop Dogg or a Tupac coming hardcore. It just filled the spirit with confidence and invincibility. I'm invincible now. Young Bloods today, a lot A lot of them are into videos. They're videographers, they're rappers, they're doing movies, Some of them work for different companies, but they still want to with the Blood culture. So, there was never one way that anybody would make money in a gang. So there are guys who They're real good. Take a screwdriver, they can go out and steal cars. Then there are other people in but everybody's not a drug dealer. So some guys will go out and sell drugs, and they'll go to the swap on fresh T-shirts, khakis, new shoes. They're fresh, real clean, but they'll never be a drug dealer again. Whoever gave them that knows because they don't know I would leave town, but it was not ever to benefit a gang. It was to benefit -- I had a Cadillac. I like lowriders. I wanted to have a better lifestyle. The most profitable thing that I did was sell crack cocaine. I got to a point where I was making about but at the same time when almost a million dollars a day selling crack in other cities. But then I know people who had PCP. We called it sherm. And they could make $50,000 in a day. So, the thing with the 1980s, the crack era and all that, it put a lot of Bloods and Crips together because it was now no longer just about money for the Bloods. It was like, the Crips might or maybe a Blood had a bigger sack and the Crips were buying from them. So, really it was about relationships. I never shared money with a gang, and there was no leader that ever told me I had to bring my money back to them. Everybody had a family a cousin in Alabama, Louisiana. Some people had them I had a team of Crips and Bloods, and we just started putting the drugs on the north side of Las Vegas, and it was very profitable, very fruitful. So the Blood culture did expand because of all these out-of-town missions. We're gathering more Blood gang members, and we're letting people know our culture, and they're able to come to LA and talk to us and deal with us. So it expanded throughout the '80s. Even now, today, you and they have their legitimate business. So there are several ex-Blood gang members who now are millionaires. And it's not from selling drugs. It's because they bought trucks. I had tow trucks. Now they have dump trucks or 18-wheelers. So there's a lot of successful people who were once a part of the Bloods. Suge Knight comes directly out of what is considered a Piru And he got a legitimate business Death Row Records came out based on their relationship Now, Suge, being from the Piru area, is able to show that Bloods and Crips are, let me say Pirus and I would've used the Crips that's working to build relationships, maybe or hire somebody from Santana Blocc or whatever the situation is. And we could have started building peace. And I think Suge did get involved in a couple of peace agreements. I think that's a good example of Pirus and Crips working together, and we don't have to kill each other. There are definitely Always say where you're from. If somebody say, &quot;Where are you from?&quot; don't say, &quot;Well, I don't bang, homie.&quot; No. You a Blood, you a Blood. No. 2 is never tell. You can't even tell on the Crips. If the Crips say, &quot;My name is John Smith and I'm about to shoot you,&quot; pow, you know, when the police &quot;I ain't even seen him. I don't know.&quot; It's a rule not to snitch because if you're in this you're going to be in jail. You're going to be going to court, you're going to go to prison, and you can't be known as People who didn't follow the rules would get what they call And you could run from it on the street, but as soon as somebody get into jail and they say, &quot;Oh, whoopty-whoop's here,&quot; they're going to be like, &quot;Oh, you know what you got coming.&quot; You can't run from the DP in jail. The way the territories are separated could be based on one street. As a matter of fact, I could walk down in LA and by the time I get to it's turned into something else. The Rollin' 20 Avenues were based at 16th Place and 2nd Avenue, even though it was more But because we're from 20s, But everybody'd be hanging out on 16th Place between 2nd Ave and 3rd Ave. Being a part of the Rollin' 20 Avenues, there were well over 300. And any given time, you know, some people were off, gone somewhere. So, when the Bloods started, there were a group of guys in LA that considered themselves the Brims. They did not consider themselves Bloods. There's another group and that wasn't a gang, But as they started fighting the Crips, they got together with The guys from other areas too, the Pirus in Compton and the Villains, the Blood Stone Villains on the Eastside, to make sure that the no matter if it was a parade or no matter what the situation was. So even though they came together and considered themselves, like a Blood connection, but You know, there's a Rollin' And so that's just to be able So for me, there's no difference between the Bloods and Pirus. However, there's some people but if we're standing on the same corner, you don't know the difference. All Bloods are not all African American. We have Belizean homies, we have Jamaican homies, we have a couple of guys who are white. So it was never about In other cities, other states, I know they're in Detroit, New York. There's a lot of them in Georgia. They are emulating something that we've actually gone through. There are individuals and one street is one neighborhood, and the other end of the So those are things and that's just what's So, yeah. And there's no hierarchy. And most of these cities out here, they pay dues and they have a timeline. Man, there is no person who Not in my neighborhood. He'd be in trouble because everybody would and, you know, it just doesn't make sense. There's no organization where I'm from. Everything in LA is unorganized until you go to a California prison. Then that's when the My first arrest was in 1977, but I was in and out. That was juvenile. I started getting locked I spent from 1977 to 2009 either on probation, on parole, I had drug cases, I had firearm cases, I had attempted murder case. I had a perjury where, just getting a license in another name, they sent me to jail for nine months. You know, violation. So there's a number of different things that I was arrested for. Anything you could think of in prison, Bloods are associated it's not always contract killing, but, I mean, it's drug selling. It's getting cellphones. The UBN that started in New than everything we were And they had a hierarchy, they had a level of command, and they really organized. Going to jail in 1982, in what they call general population. So I'm in and out of general population. And later in the '80s, I because that whole 9,000 and it was a free-for-all. There's, like, 100-and-something And whoever's the deepest Crips is going to beat up the other Crips. Definitely all the Bloods. Emotionally, in jail is horrible. Jail is the worst place in the world. Being away from my family is I think mass incarceration took out not just the Blood gang or the Crip gang. They took out our families. They destroyed our families. They destroyed the fathers and mothers having to leave the house. California has the most in the country, and this country has the most incarcerated When Arnold was the governor, he spent $7.2 billion on but he didn't build any junior colleges. I think that people need to have a trade because they might not do But he didn't invest in that. He invested in the prison system. LAPD played a major part in helping to develop and grow the hatred that we had for each other. LAPD would actually drop people off in different neighborhoods, and they would wake up the neighborhood and say, &quot;There's a Blood in your area. He's in this car, and he's sitting in front And people would come out to I think LAPD has taken 1,000 baby steps forward. I do not think that they see us or view us any different now. I think the only thing is that LAPD, not the LA County Sheriff, but LAPD will listen to the concerns and the complaints of the community. Whereas back in the days, Now they're proactive. They're see who has guns, who doesn't. But prior to that, it and most community members to the police department because, once again, we'd be victimized. So I don't want to be victimized, so I don't want to call the police. I'm going to call my mother. So, there was never a year that I decided to leave the gang life. In 1998, when I was in jail facing two life sentences I knew that this was And I didn't have anybody to talk to. Everybody was either on drugs and I wasn't doing robberies. I was owning a tow-truck business. So when I came home, I just stopped going around my community. However, my kids were still there and my community members were still dying. So I never left the community, I just left that part of me that So then, as I started 2nd Call, I started helping individuals get jobs, getting careers, get help them start getting shoes So now that I'm a positive a lot of the young people So they just know me as this person, but they don't know me as or who went to war or any In the city of LA, we have Gang Reduction, Youth Development. So we have Summer Night during the summer months, the city pays for certain activities It used to be a little But what they do is they They do free food, they do face painting, and there are prizes. And that use intervention workers. But also on the outskirts, to kind of monitor to and disrupts what's going on. I think the old-school is more so we are one, and the new-school Blood they fight each other, and like I said, they were born into a war when they were born. They were born into So they don't know what peace is. The ignorance part of not the gang culture, the gang lifestyle, not developing into something different and into a more productive neighborhood. That Black Stones don't have to be gangs. You know, the Jungles but there needs to be more development. And don't get me wrong, to play professional sports. There are people who are off of entertainment. But I just think that it's There's healing circles in the Jungles. They're doing expungement clinics. There's so much that's going on. But I think that the culture, the mindset never changed. The violence of the Crips going to end soon, within 10, 12 years. But in the next 30, 35 years, that everybody gravitate, all the kids will gravitate to be this. I don't know what this is,