Welcome to Good Mythical More. We are gonna be subjected answer absolutely honestly who is the worst husband. Uh, but first we need to a quarterly report on our Uh, it's our company called Look Like Big Shot Glasses. Right, um, you know, No. Because, um... The customer base They're disappointed. I think when people grab that, they do like this, further away than it is. Right. And then they grab instead of out there. And then when they take We thought that the POV... this was what it was because, comes in the instruction box And it says, place this shot face as you typically would. Right? Right. This is the most important Is that you need, just watch, So this might be where you We say, bring your shot our shot glass is a little like a big shot glass. Because it's twice as If you don't take the print, our product does But then when you put it close like this because it's so - understand, but that's why... years ago in the hot tub. If you put it here, and reaching like this, right? Stevie, you were there. Why didn't you tell us Mm hmm. I'm following along that you're saying. People think you're getting That's cool. Because you don't even Anyway, we're shutting So, sorry if you invested. Who's the worst husband? I have been married, um, for I've made it last longer. That makes me a Hey, hey, I'm catching He might, yeah. If I get a divorce, was, it would take, you have a year buffer that I So in that year I'm really y'all to get divorced the better husband, even But if me and Jesse get into against the rotation of the fast enough, and we do we can beat you. You'll be married Yeah, we're thinking Okay. All right. Oh, you've taken But 25 years, 25 years, nothing to, um, sniff at. Yeah, yeah, you're right. 25 years is a long time to be I, these, a lot of these partner grievances, and I rack up some, at least some. You're gonna keep score. Um, like... Well, this one I know already. This one's just only I mean, sometimes there's relationship, but let's Have you ever done this? Uh, I don't, I, I think I'm a, I think I'm a, I would excellent, excellent listener. Okay. I don't think I'm, it's to listen, you're right. But sometimes just my, default face maybe looks Like, does this look like Oh, so you're not even, yeah, pretend, you just say that Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I got that one. How often does Christy say put it into perspective. - I would say... I would say twice a month, I - I would say six... doing something else. Six times a month, I want to be the guy that always So I just do it about But you ask me that because it - How am I there? How am I there then I think it's a Oh, you do? Christy never asks I will say that. She never asks me, Cause she doesn't talk to me Cause she's learned Like, I feel for you. I understand. And sometimes I'm like, But I'm also fiddling with in my pockets and... You find anything cool lately? Uh, but I'll take, Okay. Point to Link. I don't think you do this. Leaves clothes It seems counterintuitive I'll take this one. - I do it. You do? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I would go out on a limb, which is not the right words, My wife also does this, but I to leaving clothes out. Not in anywhere in the Okay. Sometime I will disrobe You just leave it there? The next day it'll still Witch of the West just Like the rapture happened All right. So give me the point on that. But that's the only place? That doesn't seem bad at all. Uh, well, bathroom floor, Multiple places in pretty bad at times. But I have gotten But I take the point. Fair and square. Yeah, I do not, When I take something off, it, I hang it back up. Well, what about You sniff it? Or I put it in, or I sniff it Makes plans without consulting I do not do this. I do this all the time. Now, in fairness, in don't include her. Oh, great. Give that, give Give him two points. You know, she just doesn't, as much as I like to do. So, if I'm like, you with so and so, she's It's like, that's So I'm like, no! I didn't make it, I She's like, okay, great. But then after a Don't you want to And I'm like, yes, I've And then I quickly But yeah, I'm a planner. I make a lot of plans. I gotta have Well, this leads into the doesn't plan date nights. You're saying that in your you also plan date nights? Or only after We're very close on have the same system. We both have a We have a standing date night. I never sit down Right. Usually roller skating, that requires not sitting. My, uh, Tuesdays are this town, nobody goes It is like the dead night. So we can, we can go to But then the weird thing that we are like the only Or, it, it always feels weird It's like, well, It's just, no, That's what we do. Every Tuesday. We go to abandoned What time are you... What time are you Seven. And there's nobody there? Very few people. It might be a You might be going to People don't go to I'm just telling you. So do you make the plan? Do you pick the restaurant? Um... No. No, but I drive. I do drive. I do drive and What's your date name, Rhett? Christy doesn't I mean, it's, you know. Well, somebody's... We have a third Yeah. It's a service. We have a date, You have a third party Yes. Yes. Once a month, okay? No, once every week. Once a week. We have reservations Yeah, once a week. Is it a date if you don't plan Yeah. Yeah... Right? Yeah, it's still a date. - I would say we both do this... Well, I think it's more that doesn't plan date nights as in has to do all the work. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, and Yeah, yeah, yeah. Farmed it out to Yeah, we third partied it. But we should, we're there. So we're on the same page. And we're mentally present and Yeah, agreed. Well, you didn't even Usually dinner. Wednesdays. Uh, Wednesdays. And... Anybody there? You would not believe how Every Wednesday? I mean, sometimes Sometimes we can barely it's so loud in the Well, that's the difference Uh, no, I will say I have part of town you go to, fully recovered in this town. Uh, that's true. There's, like, there's a lot It seems like they could and they're not. I've noticed they're not but I never feel like I'm That hasn't happened yet. Maybe it's a Tuesday, It's a Tuesday thing. You're picking Yeah, because, like, Like, in the sink after shaving. I mean, we can do fast, just do some fast ones? Well, I think, there's that I would just assume check, but I don't know. Do you leave hair in Uh, no. No. No. No. No. Do you leave the No. No. No. No. Um, do you, I know this leave parties too early. You're the opposite. You want to stay Not, Rhett, but. Yeah. I feel like I want to leave Usually when my wife Y'all want to leave I'll take a point for this, my group, in my couple, Uh, I'm a horrible husband. I like to stay at the party. A little bit of Um, steals the covers. Here's one I don't know. Oh, good lord no. And my wife does this. I actually have a technique her and she got upset with me. Explain it to us. We might laugh. So first of all, I want to where you've got two complete to each other. - One mattress. I want to do that so bad what Jessie to like grab something off just like yeah like it she's Taking everything with her? I was like and I said she did it for like the hundredth you something that I do? I was like when I need the bedside table. What I do is I hold the sheet and then set it back down And she just was I'm not gonna use So I do not do this, Give her a point. So you rotate under I'm very sensitive. I'm easily awoken. Yeah. Awakened. And so, I try to be Just have your, just do You gotta find them. Seems like a good idea. Ikea. Use a blanket. Scandinavian. Yeah. Oh, yeah. All right. I'm still in the lead here. What about the covers I, I don't, I've But I don't I haven't had You, uh, I went through it. You still sleep with I've started to, pillow as of late. So I've started You've abandoned your pillow? Yep. My special. You've chosen not to My special cylindrical. The buckwheat Buckwheat pillow. What happened? You planted all the buckwheat? It wasn't working It wasn't preventing me I would just be in more That's tough. So, I was like, why am And I got rid of the pillow. It's over on the couch. And now I pull the covers. So, give me another point. Uh, never takes cute, I don't know if we Of the partner. I take pictures. I take some cute You mean at her request? No. This sounds like, It's a Take a picture of me for I think that's the vibe. Maybe candid means, like it's candid, but it's not. I told you about the couple that restaurant when we The wife made the husband in front of the sunset. And then... Again and It got dark and it - And it was 25 minutes straight. She would take a She would come down and sit And then she would say stand up and do it again. And it's like, after a Where's the shame? A little bit of shame would So I would be embarrassed, was being judged by the other I would be like, okay, that's doing this, even if I want to. Well, that's how He seemed completely on board. Well, he wasn't good Yeah, it was his fault Brittany just explained to this is a heterosexual thing apparently some um, I'm going that we're talking about, uh, to notice when they are of them without being asked. Okay, yeah, yeah. Um, I don't know why that as well, but... Maybe it's not... It seems It does. I don't know. I just have never thought of me looking cute while I don't do this, but I've mean, she's never said Yeah, yeah. She can't tell you. I guess is part of it. You'll find out after you Yeah, yeah. I'm gonna do more of that. Tonight I'm coming So we both take a point. We both take a point on this we're gonna start doing it. Yep. Um, okay. I mean I think It eats food off You're still winning. I would assume you, uh off your wife's plate. Yes. Yeah. Yes. Uh, it's apparently bad. It's apparently bad. My wife also does Okay, well it cancels it out. Does Christy do We share. Yeah, we share. Yeah, I don't want We go half and half sometimes. Would you like to volunteer think that you do that Just looking at him. Lets her know that he's Are you talking about me? Yeah. I'm trying to get I'm winning right now. Can you say that again? Just looking at him annoyed with her driving. This sounds like a Magazine or something. Just looking at Lets her know. What? So, this is for Rhett. You're saying Jessie looks And she can tell that he's Or a lot of decisions That is not true. Just a quick glance. Most of the time, I drive. And, uh, he has a Frustration. I think you might I think you might be judging looking at me for validation. Yeah, but I'm not Your wife is very Yeah, she was. The other night she was. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm Hey, as long as I'm points, give her a point. She's a She was literally in Yeah. She, you know, just, I was in LA traffic. She took, she, she Changing speeds. I think we were in a No, we were on gotten outta that concert. We were on the street. She complained You just didn't hear her. We were in the parking lot. I, I thought I did a driving her around. Uh, it seems that I Two to five. Uh So, I'm just trying Don't take it personally. Watch Roll for Mythicality, Dragons gameplay series