When people first come to see me, they I am not a philosopher. All of the reasons you came to me are wrong. What I usually do is make my confession to myself and since there's one Self everybody's When I use the terms I or I-am, I am not referring Consciousness is omnipresent. This means that all So, I confess that I am not the body or not the doer. But that I am the absolute reality. I am ultimate oneness, pure I am unborn and I do not disappear. And in the I am nothingness. Emptiness. am that I am. That is my confession to There is one consciousness, one As I make my confession to you, I'm speaking of oneness, of the emptiness. I am that I am. Sat-chit-ananda. I, which is consciousness was never born and transcends all your karma. To be aware of this To be aware of this, is to be this. So again, I do not give talks, I do not I am not a preacher, I am nothing. If you came here to expect some teaching, you will go away disappointed because I have that I-am is not the body-mind principle, I-am is consciousness. Consciousness is the Self. The Self is self-contained, projecting and Last Thursday we were talking about the Self as I finally confessed that in the ultimate reality, And some people became perplexed because just I come and tell them there's no Self. Now what The Self exists as long as you believe you're need a Self? Does a self-realized Needs consciousness or Brahman, or Those are words, those are concepts. As long as you are believing in this will halt your progress. Reality is in the Silence. Really the only thing you have your mind quiescent and reality But if you go around repeating like a parrot, &quot;I reality.&quot; It will actually keep you back. I The reason I express these words, is some- thing else besides you bodily your everyday occurrences. And that is called the projecting and manifesting the universe And the reason the universe and the world exist is because you exist. It's being emanated The entire universe is a projection of your mind. So, if there's no mind, everything becomes the Self and I am that. But until that happens the The best thing you can do, is and discover your true nature. When you get caught up in the world &quot;Who is it that's caught up in &quot;I-am&quot; and go further and ask your- What is this I? How did it originate? What is its cause?&quot; Follow the I, abide in the I and you that I does not exist. You will soon come to And instead of observing objects in the world. You will observe the space that the It's like a little kids cut out book. A little the sun, pastes the sun on the paper. Cuts paper. Cuts out a picture of a man, pastes it little kid is interested in the objects. But The paper is the reality of the playing with those objects he simply its place. Takes away the clouds Takes away the man and puts a woman in its place. But did the paper change? The paper is We appear to be mortals. Going through There appears to be a sky, planets, stars, others. But I say to you in Only the space is real. The space never changes and everything else does. Now some of you may ask, &quot;What good What can it do for me?&quot; And I say you have unchanging happiness in your Most of us do not even understand what happiness we get things to go our way. How long does things change. The only thing that's If your happiness depends when that changes there goes Same with peace and joy. As long as things bring you happiness, joy time. For these things must change sooner or Some people believe that this teaching rewards. Improve their relationships. We're not trying to improve our humanhood. they have plenty of so-called science of What we're trying to do here is annihilate our humanhood that causes the As long as we identify with This doesn't mean that by not identifying with joy and there will ensue happiness and What this means is you will acquire differently. When you begin to And that you are an embodiment of love. And that If you really feel that, and what ever you see will become That's why you will be able to confess, the But until it happens to you, do It's like beating a dead horse. When you improve your affairs they stay im- proved for a while Then you improve that and then something negative pops up somewhere else. It's It's like you grow a tumor and you &quot;Well I've got to cut it out. I'll give you a So he does just that, but a month later arm. Then he cuts that out. It grows back You cannot destroy the effects and the cause and there's only one cause you are human. That you are the body and the Eliminate that and suffering will cease. So again, how will you eliminate that? By come? Who's going through these karmas?&quot; and Your ego has absolutely nothing to do with is your ego that comes back again and again. It's like people being born People come and go everyday very fast. then they'll really go. Then they'll come Until you get tired of playing the game. I've been playing this game for eons. I die I and I come back. I'm getting tired of it. What to do?&quot; When you finally ask that question, something meet the right teacher, hear the right words. But something will happen to you when you inquire, &quot;Why do I have to keep playing &quot;Who is it that plays the game? Who's going Who is I am? Where did I come from? What gave it birth? Did I have a father and a mother to And something will tell you it's like an &quot;The sky is blue.&quot; In reality there's no sky But if you look out the window you see a If you are in the desert dying of thirst, run to drink the water but it's a mirage, The same is true of your I. Your I appears appears to exist. But it's like Only the screen exists. The pictures that try to grab them and see what So it is with your so-called life. It comes from false imagination. You are You believe that you are a body. And you're going through many experiences. And you As soon as you drop that belief reality The first feeling that you achieve, is a feeling were never born. And if you were never born, The second feeling is that you little self located in any body. You are free forever. Omnipresent. You are everyone, everything, all existence self-contained and you project the universe. But you become aware that you are Find your Self. Become true to your Self. How many more years do you have left? What are you doing with your What is more important to you than morning when you first open your eyes. What you should ask yourself as soon as you get That's the smart thing to say. Instead I want a danish, I have to go to Ask yourself, &quot;What the hell am I That is the first step. To be As long as you're satisfied, and you say, and you spend three hours putting on makeup, or Then you're feeding a dead horse. But when you realize you're going through through nonsense all of your life and you The answers will come by themselves, The only reason you come here If you were doing the right And so you begin to inquire, &quot;What is this body? Who is it? And then you remember you say, &quot;I dreamt, I had now I am awake.&quot; But here's something funny you during my dream state and during my waking state. I was present because I said, I What is this &quot;I?&quot; And again you follow through, &quot;Where that is present during sleep, that And now I say, &quot;I am awake.&quot; Who is this I that does all this? What And you begin to be aware of your as it goes through the motions of thinking, As if your thoughts are so important. You may say to me, &quot;Well if who's going to take care of me? Does the tree that grows beautiful yet it grows luscious man- goes. Does the Does the grass think, &quot;Am I going to grow takes care of everything. Karmically your It knows what to do without your needs no help from you. By abiding on the Even better than you can So try not to think too much. But rather follow source, you will be surprised how easily you Sometimes I close my eyes, sometimes I'm having some wonderful inner experiences I just close my eyes because they get tired. There are no experiences to get.