Come on now. That horse is a picture of hell. He is. Except for asthma and a touch of sunstroke. I don't want a wizard. And not a horse that has asthma. You want $20, every penny? Take off 5 for sunstroke. 15? Heck, you can't even buy a two legged snake for that. If I had a two legged snake I'd make So would you with an asthmatic horse, just think. Hold on a minute. Just won't learn, will you Paco? That their horse. Where are you taking that? Taking it? I've never even seen this horse before. Never, ever. Try again. If you only knew the trouble I have keeping Sure. Where is that dang horse thief? - There is the horse. I surrender sheriff! Who want a horse with sunstroke anyway... Jerry, are you loco? Yes, I am. For you. However, at sunrise, I'm leaving. Duty calls, Rosie. Is there a war on? We all leave tonight. - Perhaps it's the only night we'll ever have together. (angry mumbling) I'll find you! What are you two looking at? Get out of here, can't you see my wife is naked? Go on, get out. There seem to be a lot of people out tonight. Yeah, I reckon. Since you're sleeping, arrangement didn't work out. Why don't you stay at my place for 30 days? He riding down! You shouldn't have come back here, Reno. Not after what you done. Now you're here. We figure we got something coming. So unfair there's no reward for a bounty hunter. We'll settle for your scalp. You got much more to go. (speaking spanish) A boy has to learn about suffering. Noo! You! Not true, no! (mumbling) Places. Who is this? He dreams about her every night. Who knows? Maybe his girlfriend. Well, I ain't able to listen to him all night long. Have patients that we'll be done when the trapdoor falls down. And it will before long. Get himself hanged because of a woman. Dolores There's not a female in this whole wide world worth dying for. Father. Francisco. Have you heard anything? Father? What's the matter? Afraid the news isn't very good, son. The governor has denied your plea for clemency. Sorry, but your father and I tried. Why don't they believe me, Father? (Stuttering) - You believed me, no? Excuse me, Counselor. - It's time to go now. All right. I don't want to die. Help me. Of course. Have courage, Francisco. Courage. The good Lord will not abandon us. Adios. Let's go, Ortega. From now on, you get to have your own private room. How long do I have before? Ten days. This evening I expect you around ten. Right, Counselor? I quite understand your feelings senor Ortega. But as for my professional opinion, at this point, I'm very much afraid your boy will have to hang. I know what you have done is more than anyone could ask. But don't take my hopes away yet. I beg you. You have my sympathies, Senor Ortega. Ten o'clock. Horse thief? I do not understand. I may have stolen one mule. Do not be an ass, Paco. You have stolen whole herds of horses. It's all written down here. As for you, Reno, you're a killer. You call yourself a bounty hunter. The men you gunned down would populate an entire town. Well, I guess I. I can leave now, with what I've done. What you've done Jerry, Would take us a year to put into writing. I would really hate to be the one to have to judge you on the day of reckoning. I had you brought here tonight, because an opportunity has arisen for you three To balance the books, shall we say, by helping an innocent boy. Francisco Ortega I do not believe he is guilty of murder and rape. Someone else has already tried to prove his innocence, and he ended up with a bullet between his eyes. Obviously, it will be a difficult task. But for three experts like you, the struggle against those who seek to hide the truth can still be won. 30,000 be all right? $30,000, if you save my son. When will you pay it? Your men can present this letter of credit to the local bank once you prove Francisco's innocence. A very interesting proposition. What are you doing? So none of us will be led into temptation. Isn't that right, Padre? Assuming we manage to pull it off in such a short time. Padre, my judgment day. He will not forget. That, Paco, you have to work on. Afternoon. We need three fresh horses. Why do you need three horses? Why are you asking? Makes $30. 25 and we'll take them. - You can buy them horses. Your fresh horses are saddled and waiting. Well, guess we can be on our way, gentlemen. You don't go nowhere. You better think on it before you try. We've got nothing against you two fellas. It's this dirty skunk over here, we're after. This flee bitten, rat faced, Mexican horse thief. Round here, we've got a little ceremony It's called &quot;meeting the hangman&quot;. How do you like that? Our fine Mexican friend here is nothing more than a common lowdown horse thief. - Why not just unbuckle your gun belt Paco? - What do you ask me to do? You might as well take away his part of the contract as well. Since he won't be needing it any longer. Hijo de puta! (raging) Shall we go? Filthy gringos. Filthy Gringos! (mumbling) I have the right to be trialed in a court. Your share of the contract, Paco. You know, for a moment, I really believed you were going to ride off Well, you're thinking machine needs a little oiling, amigo. There was something real phony about that lynch mob. Yeah one move in the wrong direction and they would have had all three of us walking off that wagon. Seem to be just what they were hoping for. I got a feeling, we should have stayed in jail. And goodbye 30,000. With all I've got in my pockets now, I'll go back. Banditos! What would so many Mexican be doing in these parts? He's alone, why is that? Hola, Paco! Hola, amigo! (speaking spanish) - Hola Juan. Why? We have nothing. Why you attack me and my men? They gave me a dollar... a thousand dollars... - to kill you. It was kind of you to think of me in the end. Hey Paco, come on let's go. Hey, man. How far is it from here to Roseville? A 4 hours ride senor. You're pulling out, huh? It is not healthy for one to be a Mexican in these parts. What do you mean, amigo? Send the horse before you pass the county line. Across the line. Yes, we are going, senor, right away. Let's go. A bunch of horse thieves, drunks. No buts about it. We've had our fill of Mexicans here. Especially after the murder of what Francisco Ortega? The most bastard indeed, you ever saw. He simply gunned down poor, old Elijah Fletcher, Who, if you know what I mean, was trying to save the life of his one and only daughter. If I have something to say about it, I tell you, I wouldn't have spent $0.02 on that trial. I'd have gone right out and got me a rope. And Dolores? Tell us about her. Friend, we prefer living in peace in this town. Now, the Ortega case is closed. Forgotten. Another man was here asking questions last week. And his nose got a little too long. Had to be cut down. Yeah, With a bullet. So I tell you, if you're looking for trouble, But don't look too hard because your visit to this town could be very short. You know, I'm beginning to believe that boy's innocent. Paco, we have a little account to settle. You know. You must remember, in this little venture, all money will be divided into three equal parts. Clear, Gentlemen? Why are you hiding? They said they will come and kill me if I stay, but I will not go away. I will wait for Mr. Francisco, and he will return to his house. He is innocent. I know him since he was born. - Who were the men that were going to kill you? They do not want Mr. Ortega to come back. But I am here and I will not leave, I will wait. Tracks going both ways here. Better split up. Hold it, friend. You're on private property. Mister, in the future you keep clear this land. Because I warn you, next time I'm The Fletchers don't tolerate nosy trespassers. You'd best make yourself scarce. I said ride, mister. The Fletchers. For stranger you seem to be well acquainted with these parts here. But you haven't told why you were spying on us. That? It was just a bit of girlish fantasy. I see that. And why did you run away? You might not know it, but I have a living to make. Excuse me. It must be hard work for you running this mill alone. It is, but it also means I can choose my own friends most of the time. If you must put your manly hand on something, that grindstone over there needs fixing. Have you ever heard tale of a certain Dolores? No. Why? Because an innocent boy will hang from the gallows. If this Dolores doesn't tell the judge just what she knows. The guilt of that boy could be nothing else then. And the bad luck to have been born Mexican like me. Funny, I'm thinking just how fortunate I am to meet a Mexican. Every time I meet a Mexican my asthma acts up. Best thing to do then Bill, is get rid of that Mexican. I can't concentrate. Would be a shame to mess up that pretty red hair. I wish you would have waited a few more minutes I would have shown off my quick draw. Troubles not up there. Oh, son of a gun. You're not ruining the gears I hope. No, my finger. All right. Let's try it. I tell you gentlemen, she's as pretty as an angel. Thank you, Paco. What about her hair? Uh, black silk and wonderful. Her eyes are of shining aquamarin. And her mouth? Doesn't smell onions like yours does. Hey, what is he dirty that water with that stink wheat for? Did you ask her if she knows who Delores is? Oh, she doesn't. You know, I never asked her name. No wonder we ain't got very far. Look at my partners. One takes one and the other's just a stupid horse thief... Hey now you mind your manners. I'm telling you to mind your manners. I mean my manners, your manners.... Hey, take it easy. Actually, Reynold's right you know. We have got to start thinking how to save the boy and earn that $30,000. What we need is a lead. You know, I think I have an idea. You and your stink wheat soap partner. (mumbling) Yeah, I have a little, please? What the hell? Who are you? Well Reno, it looks like your lead is panning out. You really asked for it this time. I've already told you Mexican, give me... Council Mulligan. You just come at the right moment seeing the situation, I think it'd be nice we talk things over. Shall we? Betty? Betty Fletcher. I am Counselor Mulligan. Do you recognize me? To me, the real tragedy is what's happened to this poor girl. She hasn't uttered a word not to anybody since the murder of her father. As mayor of this town, I myself ordered this house to be guarded in the interests of Betty Fletcher, among other things. In any case, of Francisco Ortega's innocence. And gentlemen, I'm sure you couldn't find that anywhere. Francisco was found in the girl's bedroom. Standing right beside Fletchers body and the gun was still in his hand. All of my attempts to obtain a lighter sentence by entering a plea of legitimate self-defense were unfortunately entirely frustrated by the stubbornness with which Francisco, notwithstanding the evidence, the facts in the case simply denied he was responsible for it. Then I guess you're convinced the boy is guilty. What do you want me to say? Facts are bright as daylight. Hmm. I understand See you. Well, what do you think we ought to do now? For the moment, nothing. We sure haven't got very far. And there's still some time left. Five more days. Yeah, another six nights. Well, now, if you gentlemen will excuse me, I have a question to clear up. Women, we're getting nowhere and he plays lover. What a fool I was, to have ever thought Oh shut up. Now put it away. Or you're going to lose it. An animal. That's what you are. Why kill them? There's not one piece of evidence in favor of Francisco. - I mean, unless you or that girl... You're walking on thin ice, my friend Dolores is none of your business, so forget about her. But she is my business. You don't think I saved your neck Just for the sake of seeing the deal ruined because she can't keep her mouth shut. You got nothing to worry about, counselor. Once we settle this affair, she and me are going as far away as possible. A word of caution, Ron. Don't make a mistake. It'll be costly. You'll see. There's a chance you might still find the hangman slipping a rope around your neck. You'd go with me, Mulligan. Be real simple for me to explain just how good you are at blackmail. Sure I killed Fletcher, fine but you're going to get all his property and mine and all of what the Mexicans left since you chased them out. All because you know now, why don't you go back to Mason City? I'll take care of things here, Mulligan. It would be best to leave the minute that you're finished. Why you expecting visitors? Betty, Betty Fletcher. You're faking, Betty. I know you are. Talk to me! We made it look like you were attacked. No one would have blamed you if you had killed him. I told you Ron, I was afraid to do it. Afraid to you know, the stakes we're playing for you're in the same boat as me, sweetheart. And if it sinks, you'll follow me to the bottom. You still love me, don't you? Well, answer me! Brett follow her. Well, what do you say? Dolores is just a very common name among Mexican girls. Jerry, look, our time is beginning to run out. Are you absolutely sure you found the right girl? Well, she could very well be. She didn't tell me directly but I'm certain she's the one. I'd better go alone. If you're right, you could suddenly find A &quot;she-wolf&quot; you mean. And what a wolf. For the ugly toad. Shall not turn into a sleeping beauty. Why did you come back? I see you're going without saying goodbye, huh? And we have a lot to talk about. Dolores. I could feel my leg being pulled. I better go see her alone, he says. Of course he's having himself a fiesta. Why don't we go and have a little look? Hey Paco. It's the crew from the Fletcher Ranch. Now's our chance to get ready to talk. Amigo. You got sunstroke? If we go there, we will end up with eyes nail to the front gate. Come on. No. No, I'm not going away with you, Jerry. Well, why not? I belong to another. You know that. If I tried to go with you, you have no idea of what he'd do to me. What's gone on between us doesn't Betty. Betty? Hey, who's there? Who is out there? No! No, don't! Don't you get... Ron! Double crossing, a little Mexican slut. He called me a Mexican slut. Called me a... He shouldn't have. Called me that. Take it easy. I could have put him on gallows, for what he did. Don't try to talk. But now nothing matters. It's all over. The night Fletcher got killed, Francisco was with me. Ron, Mr. Mulligan... made me keep my mouth shut. Would you be willing to testify? I put it all down. Here, at least there's something I've done right. I only hope you can still save Francisco. You didn't think I was a slut, did you? Hey Jerry, you were right, Paco. I guess I should have brought you along this time. Was she Dolores? Yes. Real &quot;she-wolf&quot;, huh? No friend. She was a good girl. Hey, you're part of the contract. What's this for? The place I'm going. The money won't do me any good. Hell can wait yet. You ain't finished. We'll get you out of here. Don't worry. No. You haven't got time to waste on me. That boy will hang the day after tomorrow, Get out of here. Get going. Look, we'll send someone for you. Yeah. Father Anthony, San Jose Monastery, Mason City Bringing evidence, Francisco Ortega. Have Sheriff suspend the execution. What time will it arrive? Around noon, I should imagine. $2 I don't believe Father Anthony could stop the execution. We've got to get that statement to the sheriff. - And we got until tomorrow afternoon to make it. Good work, Brad. They're coming now. Hijo de puta. My grandmother was a better shot. - Where are you hit, Paco? Seems there's no one right behind us. - You want to run for it? You've got to save that boy. It's the end of the road for me, amigo. Hey, wait. Here. Take it. I knew I would never see that reward. Hurry. Adios. Come on, quick. We got to cut him off. Like to shoot, huh? Here! Hey, I'm in a real hurry, mister. - I need a fresh horse. There's no horses around here. I got as much as last week. O cause you can hop that there stage if you want. Pretty good work there Boss. Ain't no witness left now. Except for you two. And me? The statement. Give it here. (praying) Wait. Get out. He's the one you all want to see hanging. It was him that killed Fletcher. I can't thank you enough. Sorry, you're hurt. It's all right. Freeze! Everyone. Untie me, Counselor. Don't nobody move. Untie me, will you? That was a pretty nice move, Counselor. But a useless one. You see that little piece of paper? I'm afraid it's going to make you hang. You still got 28 days to serve, Reno. A very nice gun. Careful, them things are dangerous.