Transcriber: Hiroko Kawano I used to be successful I had left a well-paid job in marketing And very soon, I could buy not anything in the world, anything My impulse purchases My entire life was just about fun, and I can say I created but it was just fun. I wanted more. I wanted joy. I wanted to do something that would last, So I started working with students, For the first time in my life, people would come up to me and say, &quot;Thank you. You've changed my life.&quot; And that was so valuable to me that I would do it if they wouldn't pay me enough. I would even do it for free - a lot - until I reached a point where even a small financial setback And of course, it did. In the middle of summer of 2016, and I wouldn't have any income I received five envelopes demanding that I pay for my glory days, immediately. This cost me everything I had: And all I had left in an instant was just a few coins that I found and in my coat pockets and in my car and 3 euros and 97 cents in the bank. Two days later, my daughter would come back She would come back on her birthday. And I couldn't afford to bake her a cake. What I wanted to do which I don't like - and just hide under the covers But I couldn't. I didn't have time because I only had that I was better than this, that I was a good mother. So what I did was the most terrifying I've ever done in my life: I decided to expose myself And I thought that the best place So I gave away my last bit of money, And then the only way was up. I called it &quot;the money project.&quot; I published a video on Facebook, stating that I had failed gloriously that I was totally broke; and that I was determined to learn anything I could about and enhance my financial intelligence; and that I was determined within six months, and to go from nothing to a fortune - or at least discover and to become a successful entrepreneur. And I would write a book about it. And this book I would sell right away And that day, I didn't dare look because this was quite scary. But that first day, I sold 64 books. And I had a fortune. Until this day, I've never felt because this meant and she could have a proper birthday, which she did. And then I read. I've flogged. I blogged. I interviewed. I learned anything I could. And I succeeded. Within six months, and I could say that I was And all this time, I had been thinking what I called it - was about money, of course, and business, but deep down, it was about it was about value and about life. And I will share with you Lesson number one: Money is important. Quite a cliche. (Laughs) But I was raised in a way And I inherited this conviction somehow - but somehow it planted that people with money So when I had money, And then when I found my purpose, I just didn't ask for it. I didn't care. I just wanted to change the world, which I had no impact on whatsoever And I also learned that money It just makes you more of who you are. So if you're a jerk with a lot of money, you're probably a jerk And if I would have more money, But if I have to worry I can't even take care of myself, Lesson number two: Money equals time. As soon as we start working, which is a problem because we can always make more money And I started to exchange my time I could barely survive. And at the end of the month, there was nothing ever left So I would have to spend all my time I'd probably have to do that because there was nothing left. And for the rest of my life, I would have given away the one thing which is time. Time with my loved ones So I decided that it was time I would spend it more consciously. And when it comes to work, I would have to exchange it for more money so I could spend less time working Lesson number three: Money equals value. It took me two years to discover It's about value. And I've always seen myself but I didn't value myself. Because the way you treat yourself is a reflection of the way And I'd been treating myself like crap, which I found a terrible example So changing my rates wasn't enough. I had to change the way I see myself. I had to start seeing myself And that was not easily done. It's a process, So I still, on a regular basis, &quot;It's okay, you're worth every penny.&quot; And even now I find it hard I get a bit embarrassed, so I'm still learning. I have to keep practicing. Lesson number four: &quot;You're a cheap whore.&quot; &quot;You're a fraud.&quot; &quot;How can you do this to your child?&quot; Just a few of the comments The hateful ones were But the quiet ones, confessing only to me that they too had found their purpose and worked really hard, and barely surviving. But no one could know. So they didn't go public, because they were too ashamed But they were very glad that I went public because now they could learn And I was thankful that I could help them. And I was also thankful for the haters, whether it was the strangers or even some of my own friends Because they taught me not really. What people say about you it comes from their view of the world. It's from their opinions and their values and maybe they're having a bad day, It has nothing to do with you. And the way other people treat you It's a reflection of who they are. So now when someone says it still hurts, but not as much, because I know it probably Lesson number five: What people say matters most Because a person with the most opinions about you - the person who talks to you the most - is you, and you tend to believe yourself, right? So be kind. A few days into the project, &quot;How do our money worries make you feel?&quot; And she said, &quot;We don't have money worries. We just have less money (Laughter) And then I realized I had been saying to myself, &quot;You're such a failure.&quot; And then I realized, that kind of thinking was not going to do And that's what they are - circumstances. They don't define you. Your response to them does. And my response was to be kind to myself, to say to myself, &quot;You'll be OK. You can do this.&quot; And then whatever it took, I would do it. Lesson number six: It's really simple. I learned so much about business and compounding, about scalability, our rates, sales, low-hanging fruit, runway, But to be honest, everything I learned, Because the essence is this: spend less, earn more, invest wisely and, most of all, value yourself. But simple is not always easy. Let me ask you a question. Who makes more money today That's quite a lot of people. OK. Be ready: there's another question. Be honest - I promise I won't tell anyone - but be honest. Who still, at the end of the month, Or a lot of times, maybe? Yeah, it's quite a lot, huh? OK, you're not alone. And this is why: Your expenses will always rise This is why most people retire poor, and why lottery winners tend to end up with less money than they had before. And about a year after I started I was earning a lot of money. I was doing well, but still, I didn't really have And I realized that I'm a 12-year-old. So I should treat myself accordingly. So, now, I hardly have As soon as money comes in, most of it goes straight And I will probably have to do this and I don't care. Because if there's one thing is I can't afford to be poor. Lesson number eight: Being broke sucks. It does. Two years ago, my entire life was urgent - everything was urgent. I had to be a full-time problem solver, It's a catch-22. Because scarcity captures the mind. Research shows that when all you can think about, when all you can think about is How do I get food on the table tonight? How do I get money today? - that takes up all of your thinking space. There's no room left to solve anything or to make a change next year. You're stuck in the situation. And my situation was that my brain I can still today hear the sound and it still freaks me out. And day and night, I couldn't breathe. There was no way out. I was suffocating. So the first thing and the only thing (Exhale) I freed my mind, and I made a decision that I was going to be successful I found my focus. I stopped sabotaging myself. And I became successful. Lesson nine: Stay broke. Epictetus said, a very long time ago, &quot;Wealth consists not but in having few wants.&quot; The paradox is that the more silence and no Wi-Fi It's ridiculous how much money spend on going somewhere quiet. When I had nothing, all I could afford to just sit still or read a book play with my child. And in those moments, I found my most profound I learned that my daughter or expensive gifts or fancy trips. All she wants, really, is a few moments a day And all I really want So now that I have money, (Laughs) I choose to live as if I'm broke. And without the worries, I can finally say: Money is not important. (Applause)