(upbeat music) - So I've made a few references to that time that the and I was asked not to talk about that for what I feel like are So for years I haven't, but it turns out I am now So here we are. So for those of you who don't and it's in a larger building with more tenants in it obviously. It's like an office building. It's not exactly like an office building, but you know, there's a front desk, and security and all that. And I've been in this building long enough that we have a pretty good So we have this one rule, basically. So there's the guy at We'll call him Bob, just for this. But Bob and I have this one rule, which is that if anyone ever and asks for me that I have to come out and meet them to confirm that I was expecting them, and then I bring them back to our studio. So if someone just randomly shows up, which you shouldn't, but if they do, and I don't show up at then I wasn't supposed to meet them. But if I have someone I meet 'em outside. That's our one rule, and we stick to it. So in June, 2020, it was pretty early in this and it's also right So I had sent everybody home, and it was just me and to work on basically building furniture, and making videos, and recording So I got here pretty early on and I'm starting to get and then there's a knock on the door. (door knocks) So I open the door, and it's And Bob basically says, &quot;Hey with badges at the front desk to see you. I, of course didn't let them in, but if you would like And then he just walked away. And my first thought is confusion. I'm like, what? What did I do on the way here that someone with badges I'm a little concerned. I'm not sure what to think. So there was a solid stood there in the doorway, or do I just stay here in the studio without asking who the Eh. And then I just went up to the front. I went up, I went up to the front desk, and sure enough, there's three and they walk right up to me, and they all like flash their badges. FBI, just like the movies. Like FBI agent this, IRS agent this. And they're like, We've got some questions for So immediately I'm relieved, but I'm like, oh, oh, Oh. Because see, a few months earlier I had published a video If you guys haven't seen that video, basically the story goes, parading around and selling which they're gonna use to And they had these insane But really what they were doing, was covering Samsung Galaxy folds cheaply with like gold stickers, and then shipping them to YouTubers and people who they believed And then not shipping from regular people or the audiences that watched those videos. Those people were getting And honestly, in hindsight, they were gonna get away with this. Like it felt pretty obvious to me. But, you know, eventually when I made a video So now fast forward a couple months, and it actually makes sense that the FBI and the IRS are interested. I just didn't, I didn't realize they were just gonna show But, you know, shout out for sticking to our rule. Even though he probably like Flash FBI badges at and that was great. So I appreciate that. But yeah, so I came out, I and they basically then about that video and the process of dealing Like any and all communications any email I'd ever sent or they wanted everything. And actually it was Andrew at the time had the business email account here. And when they were asking like, has anybody else on your in email communication with this company? And I was like, I think Andrew might've. And Andrew just had arrived at the studio and walked up to the And so I like, I go, &quot;Hey, hey, come in.&quot; And you know, first thing he sees is like me in an empty studio with like waving him over. So he has a pretty funny on this story. So the FBI actually took and the scratched gold as evidence in the case. They literally asked for They put 'em in sealed plastic bags that said evidence on them, which is why I said at the that year- Also honorable mention which I also don't have on this desk because it is in the Someday I'll be able to tell that story. So as they're leaving, you know, they've asked me all the questions. As the FBI and IRS people are leaving, they're like, &quot;Hey, don't talk about this at all publicly, please.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Of course, yeah. No, obviously you're the FBI, of course I'm not gonna talk about it. I don't want to interfere with But also like, when could I talk about it? Like, how long do you think And they said, &quot;We'll let you know.&quot; So I've been biting my tongue for years, not talking about it, but not anything too serious. But since then, a lot of the You know, at first when PayPal stopped working with them. So they'd switched to direct transfer thing with Klarna. And then they stopped And then eventually the whole and the guy at the head of this guy finally ends up getting arrested and going to prison in Spain for fraud, and money laundering, and basically for everything in those videos. So I've been holding onto okay, is it cool now that he's So we actually reached back because they left their cards, and they're like, &quot;Oh yeah, no, it's cool You're totally fine.&quot; So there unfortunately is no footage of any of this incident, but there is these papers that they received property to be used as evidence in the case. So one Pablo Escobar AKA Samsung, and one Pablo Escobar AKA iPhone 11 pro. But hey, now you basically know the story. Yeah, pretty serious business out here, making videos about phones Apparently also, if this guy in the United States, then it's very likely my in those court documents, which is crazy. And also the phones that they But yeah, I do wanna get back more investigative deep Obviously the giant scams thankfully, in the tech world, but still they are fascinating And by the way, that's not the with the FBI in running but that's another story for another day. But hey, if you want more let me know with the comments. But also the latest episode, the bonus episode of the Waveform podcast is just stories like this one from the past couple years at the studio, whole story time episode. It's fun. So go over there and But yeah, that's basically it. Thanks for watching. Catch you guys on the next one. Peace. (upbeat music) It's a story of how I became a villain. For at least 24 hours, I was hated. - A couple weeks, I would say. - Yeah, oh really? A couple weeks. Well, oh, 'cause the Hang on here for a second, I literally wait there and like this guy comes back out with another guy. He goes, &quot;Hi. Oh, good to meet you.&quot; And he's filming me now. Okay. - Oh no. - So now he's filming me. A couple weeks later I log into YouTube, and everyone on Twitter's like, &quot;Why is Marques such a jerk?&quot;