Starbucks has been a mainstay in business as a role model for innovation, branding, responsibility. The impact of Starbucks is well-known - they bitter medicine that the working class forced branded drink that people consume these days Starbucks made their stores into a casual could come in, relax in comfortable chairs, Neighborhood baristas provided essential front-line coffee drinkers. The experiential nature of the stores, their and product helped Starbucks not only introduce high prices at $3-5 a cup. Thanks to efforts from its famous CEO, Howard uniquely respected and celebrated image in circles over the past decades. See - Starbucks is not some basic coffee retailer, innovative, socially responsible company that employees, investors, farmers, and the environment. &quot;So the love and humanity is also about creating for something in addition to making money employs and the communities that it serves. And I think as a result of that, and this do more and will be called on to do more. I also believe that those businesses that make more profits as a result of doing the Over the last 40 plus years as Starbucks has to over 19,000 around the world, I think the our commitment to providing healthcare to who work more than 20 hours a week. We saw firsthand that we were the only company this benefit to our people. No one company has come into New Orleans and approaches that we're doing with over 15,000 And I got to see very up close and personal its fundamental commitment to changing people's jobs, making neighborhoods better, and that's Over 4,000 African lives are lost every day from lack of drugs that you can buy at any 12 million AIDS orphans in Africa, 18 million of active adults wiped out, children bringing It's not a cause, it's an emergency and we're This makes it all especially ironic that Starbucks, and model employer, is now waging such a high-profile, the United States - using every trick in and any conversation of labor progression before While union efforts by retail workers are Target, and Amazon, none of these corporations of Starbucks. While those companies intentionally keep themselves Starbucks has opted to be as subtle as napalm. For a company that makes billions every year glorified microwavables, surely the profits Can Starbucks really not afford to pay a few In this episode, we'll dive into the business and uncover why the company's image as a successfully crushing unions in America. The coffee industry breaks down its evolution The first wave was the 50-cent dark, bitter and dehydrated instant mixes in the 80s and Consumers had little regard towards taste, as a cheap vehicle for caffeine. What Starbucks accomplished in the 90s was drink into a social pastime, emphasizing bean destinations, hiring baristas as stewards, flavored forms like lattes, cappuccinos, espressos, Coffee continued to evolve with the third Consumers started seeking greater sophistication latte art, manual brewing, and diverse flavor can provide and big corporations like Starbucks, The third wave is best represented by the Four Barrel. Despite the trend towards third-wave coffee, baseline. Its products sell even if most of the menu than coffee. Its stores remain packed across America, Europe, In the world of foodservice, shops that sell higher margins than restaurants. Beverage shops deal with significantly fewer - water, milk, cream, syrups, juices, fruits, All these ingredients come stable, ready-to-use, of spoilage. In contrast, restaurants must deal with a that must be replenished weekly, require processing, While skilled labor is necessary to turn raw have significantly lower labor requirements. Drinks are simplified for workers behind-the-scenes movements that anyone can quickly pick up. The opportunity to make money is high when for $5 that only cost you $1 to make and can worker. The low barriers to entry and massive paper to attract new entrants into the beverage bubble tea shops, smoothie shops, and juice Beverage shops win on margin per transaction volume to achieve profits. Volume is what Howard Schultz optimized for It's impossible to cover Starbucks without Howard Schultz is a celebrity CEO who was success, but also now the same exact person approach to crushing its unions. In today's progressive political climate as individuals, waging a public war against to termination for any CEO. While Tim Cook and Jeff Bezos opt for neutrality, he is of any form of labor progression or company. &quot;Could you ever see doing that and embracing No. Why not? The primary reason is we are in business to million people come into Starbucks. The customer experience will be significantly is integrated into our business. Because they're not acting in good faith? Because we have, we have a different view entire time on this, come on.&quot; It is Howard's invincible larger-than-life Starbucks alongside his high levels of social as the champion corporate social responsibility by the media, targeted by politicians, questioned or pressured by investors. As a result, it's useful to first understand him this present-day credibility and autonomy When Howard first stepped down from Starbucks of executives who followed the classic MBA simplification, and relentless expansion. In order to hit the growth targets promised a certain number of stores in every state In the mid-2000's, Starbucks opened stores mile of each other, to impress investors and in site selection. As the stores grew rapidly, the workforce focused on improving barista productivity Instead of fresh coffee beans, Starbucks pivoted and automated machines. The overexpansion led to predictable sales customers naturally questioned why they were bag at Starbucks when they could get the same These same CEOs also focused on growing ticket predictably, they chose the cheapest options Howard Schultz was called back with a hero's He moved to restore the authentic customer brand on - kicking out the inedible sandwiches, coffee to be freshly ground, installing shorter being made, shutting down hundreds of underperforming Roast and a light Blonde Roast, requiring batches, and retraining baristas nationwide. Starbucks had lost its soul and Howard returned acknowledgement - a rarity for corporations would copy a year later to its own success. There were other wins credited to Howard during He believed that CPGs would be an important the core retail business. Coffee shops had been facing pressure from could make their own espressos and cappuccinos Starbucks had a partnership with Kraft in pods for Kraft's Tassimo machines. When the competing Keurig system and K-Cups Starbucks broke off with Kraft and launched mix and K-Cups to build up its CPG business. Under Howard, the company also rolled out one of the most successful customer loyalty retailers like Costco which have contributed sitting on their balance sheet today, and Over a decade later, Starbucks is still the walk in and get free Wi-Fi, no questions asked Pike Place Roast and Blonde Roast are now popular in-store brew and the top-selling Howard seized every opportunity to grow Starbuck and fundamentals. He applied the same quality-first approach order to satisfy his exacting demands. Unsatisfied with external vendors, Howard dollars for the sole purpose of creating food In 2011, Starbucks entered the fast-growing through an acquisition of Evolution Fresh and a single brand. Diversification continued with entry into acquisition of Teavana. He championed corporate social responsibility its retail workers "partners", building sustainable farming, enforcing ethical sourcing, raises. The rationale that Howard presented was that long-term business and taking less profits payoffs in the future. Howard's desire for control and high standards to expansion. Rather than relying on the traditional B2C to operate their own store, Starbuck relies partner only with established companies in These companies are usually grocery stores, and resorts - venues looking to generate more space to offer. The compensation is identical to that of franchising coffees, teas, and food at wholesale quantities to customers at higher retail prices. This is why some Starbuck stores won't accept participate in rewards. If you've ever seen a Starbucks inside a a licensed store. Partnering with other businesses helps in desirable venues that are not publicly available, In the various fast food companies we've and KFC - individuals running franchises are and regulations to make the most out of their Starbucks has greater confidence and lower companies would have little incentive to cut as Starbucks to them is just safe supplemental The places that licensed Starbucks stores train stations, college campuses are by nature with corporate stores for customers and eliminates Under renewed emphasis on customer experience roared back to success with revenue skyrocketing The CPG business, made up of the VIA instant Frappuccinos, Evolution Fresh juices, and dollar business by 2017. The CPG business enjoyed 40 plus percent operating Despite a near-200% increase in sales over just 11% of Starbucks total revenue in a single Revenue to Starbucks from licensed stores sales was even smaller, accounting on average The biggest revenue stream has been food and which stood for 80% of revenue on average Upon re-establishing Starbucks's leadership In the 8 years between 2009 to 2017, Starbuck locations. Company-operated locations scaled by 40% from Starbucks grew by 60% from 7,800 stores to Licensed stores were more important for cost-efficient for domestic growth. Starbucks in North America would scale at as the majority of the domestic fleet would Overseas, Starbucks grew from 5,500 stores with licensed stores making up the majority. Starbuck's retail business, on the other type - meaning locations in Europe, China, segments. In America, the majority of stores are corporate of the company's annual revenue. The operating margins across both licensed have hovered in the low 20 percent range. Wages paid to retail workers were the second by 200-300 million dollars every year. In comparison, the European business for Starbucks In 2011, net revenue from Starbuck stores revenue had dropped to below a billion dollars. Despite investing more into licensed stores locations in 2017, the Europe business had Operating margins for Starbucks in Europe would drop even lower in coming years after The success of Starbucks in Asia, specifically underperformance of Europe. In 2016, Starbucks was operating over 2,000 500 in Shanghai alone. Winning China was a long-term strategy that he stepped down as he saw Chinese to be the the United States. China's fast-rising and fast-growing middle over the years, making the country an invaluable The number of stores in Asia exploded from vast majority of those openings being in China. The Asia business grew from $400M in 2011 Starbuck's Asia segment, which at this point margins equivalent to that of the United States Wages paid to workers were still the second but the gap between the two was sizable at Howard stepped down in 2017 believing Starbucks strong business in China, a positively trending markets like juices and tea, an encouraging the upscale Starbucks Reserve and Nitro Cold of a forward-thinking, fast-growing, socially a coffee chain. He handed the reins to his COO Kevin Johnson. In his four years at the helm and through China above all else, sold off Teavana to rights to market, sell, and distribute any coffee to Nestle. Starbucks went away with a $7B check from future sales, but effectively gave up its This was counter to Howard's vision as the the company's margins, appearance, and future down by the fundamentals of its retail business. Starbucks operating margins over the years in the mid-2000s to the high teens by the greater contribution from its CPG segment. Yet following a failed presidential campaign, life's work and forced his way back as CEO This time, the Starbucks that Howard inherited stepped down from four years ago. In the United States, coffee is no longer These days, millennials and zoomers make up Over 76% of beverages sold at Starbucks in over 60% of all drinks sold are customized. This change can be easily seen on social media, frighteningly colorful concoctions and stomach-churning sugar, and artificial flavors. "Cold beverages have surprised us all at But our ability to customize beverages is There is no other coffee company anywhere instantaneously to a customer's request company that has our ability behind the counter et cetera to provide the customer what they It is a weird world we live in when the largest advantage as having the biggest collection When we look closer at the demands of the straightforward - they want protection against and of course, higher base pay starting at Thanks to company financials, we can calculate succeed and if Starbucks was forced to raise from the $15 an hour today to $20. From a pure cash perspective, given that Starbucks more per hour per worker is clearly possible. The question is more of, what is the cost their image? We start with what we know. We know that a Starbucks worker in the US We also know that Starbucks employed 248,000 operated stores in the United States. There are a total of 35,000 Starbucks stores corporate owned-and-operated locations and America. 10,000 corporate-owned and operated stores corporate owned-and-operated locations in stores in the world . Starbucks states that workers. Given the representation of corporate-operated 56% of worker wages, or $4.5B paid out amongst stores in the US. The remaining $3.6 billion dollars in wages and Asia, which at a quick glance, seems logical. European retail workers on average have higher-than-US significantly lower than the West. Plus we know that Starbuck's European business business both in scale and revenue contribution. Next, we assume that the average Starbucks worked 48 weeks in a single year for a total We divide the $4.5 billion dollars in US retail US and then by the number of total work hours worker. Our final output of $15.40 matches what we at Starbucks in the US that year was $15 an If we repeat this same exercise but this time, of $20 an hour and work in reverse logic - holding in 2022 would have been 16% higher at $9.5B If we apply this difference of $1.38B more operating margin in 2022 would have dropped to full-service restaurants and lower than Even if we say that our calculations are off results in a 6-9% increase of $500 or $750M margin still goes down by 1-2% and moves closer When we strip away all the corporate marketing the reality that at its core, its economics restaurant, with ingredient costs at 30%, remaining chewed up by administrative overhead flow, stable income, but perpetually low margins. When China went into a multi-year lockdown China business went down with it. This put greater pressure on the American for both the underperforming Europe business Without its CPG segment, Starbucks is now for both income and growth. The pressure to maintain profits in Starbuck's the uncertainty of China, who has demonstrated the show and companies will operate as they The threat of unions, even if it seems distant for Starbucks to ignore - especially in the geography. Unions would not only increase labor costs and drop Starbucks's margins overnight into And the longer that Starbucks's operating drops to single digits, the more the company's food &amp; beverage business, and the harder it image as this socially responsible, forward-thinking, deserving of praise, recognition ,and high Business is as much optics as it is product rights is the difference between being seen leader versus a top-heavy, conventionally brand - Starbucks, like any big corporation,