What is cloud computing? So that is the topic talking about the cloud, such as cloud computing exactly what it was. Well, the term cloud computing run on the cloud rather than being stored and run you own. Then this data and the applications which So the workload is no longer on your computer or So what is the cloud? Now to put it simple, the with computers. To be specific, it's a big building that provide services on behalf of clients. Now to be, because when you take a look inside, it's a the eye can see. And these servers perform numerous data processing, web hosting, and so on. And they accessed on the internet. So what is the purpose of are called cloud providers and their purpose is to just something that you pay someone to do for you or a company wanted to hire another company they would outsource it to a third party. In So back in the old days before cloud computing and office if you wanted to use email you would have a server, an operating system, and email software configuration , you would be able to use email. wrong with the server, such as a hardware failure crashed, then you would be responsible for fixing needed to keep the server up and running. However hassle and upkeep of your own email server and their servers in the cloud for you, such as gmail one example of cloud computing. There are also web servers, databases, and even Youtube. So yes So if you're a video creator and instead server and software and the extreme high cost of to watch your videos from your server, you can to Youtube and let Youtube handle everything for regular cloud provider, Youtube will get a share of question is, why would an individual or a company major reason is cost. With cloud computing a person buying their own hardware and software, along it takes to run their own data center. So it would And another reason is reliability. Because when you all of the data backup and disaster recovery. And also have several redundant sites as a backup another reason is scalability. Cloud providers will only what you need. So whether you need to rent you only want to rent a small amount of computers expands, you have the option of instantly And if you don't need to rent as many computers, So who are the cloud providers today? Well Web Services or (AWS). Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, Alibaba, and IBM. With Amazon Web Services being the biggest of them all - taking about a third biggest customers is Netflix. Netflix uses Amazon Web Services for nearly all of its computer and storage needs including databases, analytics ,video own data center and spending hundreds of millions to outsource it to a cloud provider which is of using a cloud is that they don't have to worry cost of building and maintaining their own data So this takes a tremendous burden off of Netflix pertaining to their business. Now there are infrastructure as a service or (IaaS). Platform as a And these three vary in control and flexibility. needs. So the first one is infrastructure as a going to let the cloud provider manage a portion portion. The cloud provider will manage the servers, You on the other hand will still have control over operating system, middleware, and runtime. Some the common person would use would be online data provide cloud storage. And the next one is called the cloud provider to manage a portion of your In a (PaaS) the cloud provider not only manages the it also manages the operating system, middleware, responsible for the applications and the data. Now this is probably the most common cloud are hosted by the cloud provider. There is no hardware to manage. You just simply access and connect to the cloud service through the internet. software, networking, operating system, and storage. all the time, which is Google Docs. Google accessed using a web browser. There is no on your computer to use Google Docs. Everything So this concludes the video on cloud computing.