Hey, Apartment Therapy. I'm Bridget, and welcome to my 560 This is an old railroad style apartment, which are actually pretty common And what that means So essentially, the entire apartment is So probably the quirkiest thing is that the kitchen sink It's my kitchen sink and my bathroom sink So this is literally where I wash my dishes and I wash my face and I brush my teeth. And that's actually one of the reasons why I've made so many changes in this space, So I really wanted to make it beautiful. I know this is wild to do as a renter, but I literally not only changed the sink and the doors and the knobs, -(Interviewer) Explain to me, how you just get a brand new marble countertop? And how does that even happen? - (Brigette) Okay, this was a new frontier for me. I've never done any type so I kind of had to do it all from scratch, like looking into stone yards, picking out a slab. Am I getting a remnant? Am I getting a full slab? Spoiler alert I ended up buying So you'll see that this exact marble in my home because I wanted to make the So one example is right here, which I literally just found I painted it black fresh coat and had it I had them cut a piece And I like that it kind of ties It feels like almost a continuation of the countertop because I don't have a lot of counter space. This space did need a little kitchen island, which the perfect size was hard to come by. I just finally found this on Facebook I feel like it's perfect. It's a little too low, but I did get some feet custom made that I'm going to match to this So many people are curious in a space that I'm just renting. And, well, I also got a new fridge. I'm of the mindset that everyone deserves that they live in, even And for me, it's not like I moved into this thinking this is my temporary home. Like, I'm like, this is my home. I live here, so I want it to look beautiful. I want to, like, spend the time getting the pillows that I love and the light fixtures and finding the perfect art. I just think that everyone deserves to be happy in their space and feel inspired by your space. And to me, not owning this apartment is not a good enough reason for me to not put the time and effort into the place that I live. I like to think about my space as opposed to the space as a whole, kind of. So, like this breakfast nook You know what I mean? So I try to be very intentional This little light fixture is just a You don't always have to have lights that are built into the ceiling I just added a hook up there to create this vignette. And then I knew I wanted that the wall above this bench to be a moment I was maybe going to do a few paintings. I wasn't sure, but I came across This is a real oil painting, still life. It was like $125. So grateful to the family And then of course, you just find So since this bench doesn't I added this pedestal which is actually This mirror used to be my mom's. I lost my mom when I was in college unexpectedly, and she was really into decor and she loved thrifting. And so it makes me, you know, I get kind of emotional she would have loved being on this journey But I do feel like she's here. And when I get to have pieces and also my grandma, So it just makes me feel like they're here Also, that mirror is just amazing. Like, look at it. When I'm like building my little vignette, I think about the shapes that are in them. So if you look like the bench So you want to make sure that you also table, the round light, it's just about a balance. that's So storage is really hard to come by So you kind of have to get creative. and this bench is actually So I get to store like five feet I'm also the self-proclaimed I have 20 curtain panels This baby one hides my garbage can. And then we have one right here, which hides my vacuum and other cleaning things. This built in is one of my favorite things I think I've said that about everything in the apartment, but you see it when you first walk in. This is what you see. And I just love that I love collecting pretty things. So right off of the kitchen is my dressing room. And this is actually, like, not a typical setup There's this arch that separates but I also added curtains to help I also just love the vibe I feel like they feel so fancy and that's It's like, I have a dressing room. Like, who's dressing room? I recently had this whole kind of deep for me, grayish blue. This is the darkest room you would think that I would want But actually I was like, We can have it feel cozy the whole thing is like encapsulated which I think pairs really, really well with all of these, like, golden brass details that I love. I love the way this whole vignette looks together. The blue backdrop with this, like, This is the same marble The one thing the There is a built in right here, but it's actually not even deep enough I had to use children's hangers initially. I actually did a consulting call with Carly Summers, who is an amazing interior designer, and she helped me she recommended These are just from IKEA They look beautiful. I switched out the knobs They're basically floor to ceiling, It just gave me all the storage and I can just hide things Speaking of one question I often get do you put your cat's litter box? And the answer is right here I know not everybody has this exact setup but my tips for hiding a litter box, like a separate room to put it in is put it next to a piece of furniture that's big, put it in a corner and potentially put something above it so that your eye, like your eye, does not go to that area ever. The way that I have my space laid out is quite different than how most people do So, usually the kitchen is going to be the kitchen. But a lot of people do the space that I have as my dressing room, So that way your kitchen and I didn't like that because to me I loved bright, beautiful living room So that's why I decided Whereas most people use this as their bedroom. I mean, I think it would be really fun with like a mantel and like, But at the end of the day, if I had to choose between a living room I like this being a living room what do you really need A bed. I have a bed, some art, and that's it. And I've done a couple of things I mean, obviously there's this arch I painted the nook itself a little like pale blue color, which I feel like but it does and then added some curtains, And then most recently, I also painted I love looking at it from where we are it's its own little picture, like this one thing that can happen and a lot of very romantic feminine too shabby chic, which you know, but that's why I like mixing in something a little bit darker So like these velvet deep green pillows, I feel like help balance that out a bit This fireplace mantle is a focal And honestly, one of the things that sold me I instantly knew So this is actually a five foot mirror. This is the Anthropologie gleaming go bigger than what feels normal This piece, this is another thing And it's pretty big. Like I feel like the old me, to go on top of the mantel I would find like a little piece Go big, and then the big dried hydrangeas, it just it makes the space feel more dynamic. And then you can mix in the bigger things This bench is a piece So when I went to pick it up, I ended up getting it really holstered which I've then covered with a blanket. I like the fabric, but I'm feeling like I'm just trying because I feel like it You wouldn't think this, but patterns as opposed to just doing like single These shelves are one of my favorite things When I first moved in, this was actually and I knew instantly that I wanted to create big shelves where I could display all of my art. When you have things so like shelves that go all the way up it just draws your eye up to the ceiling so that it feels really grand. So I feel like this just makes my space feel so much bigger and more expensive even. I love how it's come together. And whenever I get bored, and add different you want to know what's over here Actually. Wait. Don't it at all. It's a painting. Just kidding. It's my TV. So I had this specifically that you could pull it out and up. Why would you spend all this money that you're just going to hide. And the answer is because I know it looks like a painting but I So I like to be able to just go, boop, And then it's gone. Sometimes I've thought a little less bulky, but this is a pro tip, I don't think I ever will because the bulkiness of the chair, it's not super bulky, it's able to hide Get a tree. Get a tree for your apartment that. This is called a weeping fig tree. And I feel like a lot of us we like to get like a lot of little ones And that's fine. But I found, like as I've honed that sometimes it's better that don't necessarily have to be big, This couch I knew I wanted to get before And I love it, but I found myself It had these three big back cushions, I wanted to, like, plop down and lounge. And it almost felt like So I removed those, put them in storage, just like varying sizes and pillows I just customize it And that's something You don't have to use things exactly So this is my bathroom. I just had this redone last year. Pretty much change everything and kept the bathtub where it was. But regalzed the tub, All new walls, new floor. I did a stone floor, which I don't know but I changed my mind every day. But I'm glad that I did it. And then this alcove in the wall. I really, really love this. Also added a ceiling medallion here These two little sconces, And these pleated ceramic lampshades I don't know, this was the first full And I just saw how hard it is I learned through doing But once I actually start seeing things in front of me and how they look together, I kind of need that. I need that jumping off point point of seeing things in my space And I'm like, that's almost right. But it needs to be a different color And so it's not good for my bank account because I'm constantly getting more things to get to that feeling And I feel like with every change I make, it feels more and more like home to me. You need to stop. (laughter) Is that how it's going to end? (laughter) You need to stop.