Today officially started Oh my god, it's so messy I don't know where to start Let's start with hygiene . Clean up the leaves The first day of wall scraping I didn't know it was so dirty. Later I knew I was wearing a mother 's smock. Ha ha Used as a professional There are no shortcuts. I can only shave and shave like this The Iron Fairy is now in my hands . After showing off his talent Keep working hard Listen to my mother telling me about my childhood Hahaha, the singing is totally out of tune Unloading haha Construction preparations begin Look at my little helper the stability of this ladder again and again When editing a video I really couldn't help laughing like a goose Then my dad asked me to help hold it up. Because my dad and I don't understand these things Then keep trying This door is actually very heavy. My dad said it was some old elm wood Then he called another helper to carry it out. Let me take down the door frame . It feels like a lot of effort I tried all kinds of methods and actions. I feel like I've used everything I could. Fortunately, I finally took it down. Started removing windows Seeing how hard Lao Wang works, I decided to give Lao Wang some chicken legs tonight Just put it on this small window Then start drilling upwards . it on It will be more convenient to press the window later . Current technology It should be made of cement and steel bars . Today is a day for recycling Next, I will perform a show for you Beauty chopping bricks I knock the dirt off these bricks . Then put the better bricks aside for building the wall . The rest of the messy ones are placed directly on the ground Precision Installation process There were really a lot of interesting episodes. For example, now this Isn't it very interesting and fun ? This life is serious I have something else to tell you. I'm leading the way, do you know? Hahahaha you you Smoking slowly , I've been through everything The wall is a little curved here. I thought of using this 45 degree method I have to admire the wisdom of the working people. Brush it down This is our new tank. The one I borrowed before was from someone else . Then I cleaned it and gave it back to someone else. The masters call this process &quot;window wrapping&quot; Use concrete and broken bricks up for the missing parts Today is all about technology watch from the side Learn some techniques Haha, the wooden boards on both sides of this window are called rulers. Then this iron steel bar is called a card strip It's to hold it. Prevent the window from being painted unevenly Is it time to stop messing around on the Internet ? After applying the mud, you need to wait for a few minutes. Wait for it to solidify a little before smoothing it out. I really didn't expect it. These two masters can do everything. I was thinking of finding a few more masters . These two uncles will help below Help with the clay work I admire my uncles . I really want to know You haven't heard of this name The main function is to loosen the soil Hit it harder This machine is used to build houses in rural areas This slurry is oil cement Paste made of glue powder and water Falling on the roof Then smooth it evenly corner can be left out This white cloth is polypropylene cloth Specially made for waterproofing Spread it on the mud together with the mud by hand or with a tool Later, a layer of mud and plaster will be laid on it . this look like a bit of snow on the ground? this something that ordinary people can't apply? It's the old window that was removed before. Let's make use of his waste today Remove the old steel bars Use the kitchen roof small red wooden frames on the windows See if I can keep it as a decoration. Tie the old steel square tubes into Length to use for kitchen roof is basically welded We chose plastic steel tiles for the kitchen roof This tile is a bit like iron tile But it is better than the sound insulation of iron tiles. if it rains, there won't be much noise. There were originally two It's a bit wide. A little bit After putting it up, I found it was narrow again. It's really dirty . It feels like snowing After going up, my hands kept looking for something Hold on tightly It's really tense and exciting My legs are shaking These boards are all nailed. Some nails are easy to remove. Some are difficult to disassemble Today's work really feels like a very stress-relieving day. dirty - his eyes glow green This is the tile cutter . Just cut it off with a light stroke I didn't expect the tiles to have arrows. Sprinkle the pre-mixed ash on the ground Use this ruler to find the level Then put the tiles After placing it , make sure it is aligned with the previous brick. Pour a layer of paste on top We are saying We don't know what's the use of spending this money We dare not say We didn't ask I think he must have his reasons. Hit it with a hammer I'm afraid there's something hollow underneath. Listen to my dad . I used to build a house like this . It can be built with more than 20,000 yuan My hands still don't obey I suddenly found that I had a universal disk Everything Three lines go up together It seems not easy to do Then let me go up Wear from top to bottom I don't understand anyway. I do whatever my dad tells me to do. I just said we don't have anything Just watching Can I help a little? Just a small favor . My dad seems to have built this stage too early 's hard to push the dirt in this room . I just realized that my cycling skills are really bad. The world is crazy To find a good angle for my red maple turned myself around several times. The weather is nice today I mean you are the April day on earth I also have a younger brother. Today's main workforce This osmanthus ball is so accurate I think the shapes of these two roses better to change the position Then I swapped the positions of the two trees . Friendly Tips water it after planting . Like this big bottle of stuff Shake it before use Like hair gel. And the mosquito repellent I always put it away before using it Next Steps I want to show how I went from being a nobody to a master. of Over I don't blow. Why not blow? The one under the hood is hitting Hahahaha down down down It's raining, you don't mind. What is this total of 4 ? You wo n't be able to move. You just can't type anything , hahahaha After my unremitting efforts and the guidance of experts It's finally out Apply a little more yeah A little foam glue fucked my mom . You look nervous Take a look Check to see if there are any gaps . Fill up any gaps . These are some very small holes. Then apply it upwards little by little with your hands. To sum up I have to say that society is developing really fast now . I think there were at least two or three people in the ceiling before . Now add the auxiliary tools One person did all the work Although the area is too large Two bedrooms are about 70 to 80 square meters. Talent it himself . The screen is amazing I originally wanted to learn technology secretly . Once you know how to do it, start hanging the ceiling yourself Now I feel this is a bit difficult professionals handle professional matters . At this time I feel like the sound of this character is the same as his own legs. Really obedient Had a dream Oh my god Only then did I realize that the wall was a little crooked. Take a measurement Give my little flower pond some clothes This should be the lining of the flower bed . Um Add glue powder, cement and water to make a paste Start to put on a white skirt for my little flower pond This cloth is called polypropylene cloth The width is 1.2 meters 2.5 meters haha 2.5 meters I am 75 My IQ is really wrong . Come again I'm convinced. It's really like making clothes. Making clothes is a matter of stitches Just make sure it 's neat and tidy. This one too Pull it if you need to . After applying the starch , it must be laid flat In case there is a gap inside Stroke latex paint Start color grading the color on the wall , I felt that the color of the large area was a bit dark Another color adjustment Tried three colors Finally satisfied Let's get started First, sand off the dust . Just rolling and rolling you like is on the wall It's so satisfying to touch. Scrub scrub scrub scrub scrub scrub scrub scrub This is too difficult on the roof . Whoever does it will have bubbles on his hands. Give real stone paint a score Then add some water to dilute it This is too thick The atmosphere is quite stressful . Can suppress spraying without interruption Get my dad's equipment on Do you think this is the end ? Didn't expect that? There is another Protection must be done well Participation is the key I also try Look at my dad and the others spraying It feels quite simple In fact, if you really start to do it yourself It 's quite difficult I 'm just holding a bunch of random things is the margin shit what a name I took a photo and the floor tiles are even darker. of the floor tiles is not that dark. Why is it so deep ? kiss towel shoes baby please be close your mouth When I am handsome and sexy Let your eyes run wild and blow into my ears Close to my ears Apple muscle on the computer to play the secret code in the TV My face my heart way man's oh that's alright Love and cry baby I haven't even graduated yet. This is when I started taking in apprentices. Woo My dad was so angry at me that he stuttered I am thinking again I don't know what I'm thinking. Hey, hey, you stubborn old man Didn't it start from there ? is a red string tied to the brick This is for leveling. addicted to this bomb oh Sprinkle a layer of loose soil Dig a hole to reserve the socket location On the wall Doesn't this require a steel frame ? You don't have to put it on the ground. Just sit on it. It's okay to sit on it. the wall and the lamp is 20 cm. The distance between lights It seems like every wall is different. this wall lamp and the lamp is 92 Let me try the fun of punching It's really not giving face. 'm hungry . Do n't tell me what would happen if you change the bottle Is it ok ? This simple This eggplant Lighting expert online The door can be installed . After it gets wet, it doesn't seem to stick to the wall very well. Then use this lever to push down a little bit. This will fit the door better . The extra tiles at the bottom also need to be cut Add concrete to the gap under the door Mixed concrete Then added a little water A fatal kick steel bar I put on the window also cut some What is it used for? If you can't get the screws in , use this . Hit This is the steel bar that was just removed from the old window . nice My Hermes City is coming Wow The level gauge It really can be used everywhere . Today I don't know anything. watch obediently from the side The door installer is really careful . adjusted little by little Finally, fill it with foam glue. Just install the door frame I'm really not showing off. This skirting is so easy. You really have to go kick it yourself to save money This 2828 eats like this I thought I could handle it myself. The old king has to step in . for the reserved sewer pipe We don't know what this is. It should be a kind of glue they use professionally. It's wooden. It's wooden. Family Mobilization If companionship is the longest confession of love That This is the kind of happiness that makes people envy it. It 's like snowing. This is the wrong place to put the sink . This sink should be placed near the window. Why One sink and one hood This distance is really Regret it I just found out that this is how the ball is used. It turned out to be the one pulling It's stuck like this He won't say it's too long. The little girl has started to help pack up . Looks like it's time to call it a day I bought online is also safe in the car The rescue plan has come out Just do it. Better than losing this time Over Finally installed About installing the toilet I think I'd better find a professional to install it. real What are you doing ? What are you doing ? Let's do it quickly Ah, I'm back Closed again Closed again Ouch, I'm so angry It turns out that I was just trying the position of the expansion screws . Tighten it now Official Start Round two Whatever you want This is a little girl who is keen on learning how to install lights My hands-on ability is as strong as mine Raise you in your mouth Is this stupid ? Can't sleep ? Live with you Live with you Let's have fun together Andy two What's wrong Okay, drink card. Um Drink some milk For the hardworking gardener It's really nice to work in the 30 -degree high temperature Sweating profusely But looking at the small courtyard in their own labor Dry The ratio of pebbles is 2 sand and 1 cement . After applying The water must be clear Second caulking on the second day The ratio of cement is sand:cement: 2 Just scan it Exposing pebbles Then wet it with water Made some effects Tidy it up Preparing to serve vegetables in the small vegetable garden I have planted my the experience of planting lawn last time fine Helper came today Start planting lawns on a large scale all these online Oh my god I was really scared after watching the video But my heart is too big Pick it up and continue working fade took a light star How did you do it? How could you Ha ha ha ha Hey, this is written fast. Here comes another trick that's why i'm on At the critical moment , Lao Wang is still needed Put a yellow ball or something . Omaiga I found an old elm door panel. Next, start to play him Then there is the unfinished work Keep working The rusty iron pattern has come out After several times of polishing weathering patterns have already appeared. Sand it with sandpaper Sweep away sanding dust Then apply a layer of varnish The finished product is here! very nice this fan come out yet ? You see, I've made some money . Hey, it's just weirdly high Hahahahahaha nice nice Wow, this is so big. Yes, all of them. No renderings ? Take a look Oh, this gentle taste It's like this during the day Wow The night is so beautiful