Uranus, the ice giant. This cold, bluish grey marble seems like a system, but in actuality there are some fascinating anything else in the solar system. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Stick with me on this journey and we will about Uranus. The first unique aspect of Uranus is its name. All the planets are named after Roman gods, It's named after the Greek god of the sky, The Latinised version of this word is what Had they just kept the Greek version, it might stumble over saying Uranus in a polite way. It even has two ways to pronounce it as no-one matter, Uranus and Uranus. Uranus is also very special in the way it It is the 7th planet from the Sun, the second It orbits on average around 19.2 AU from the away from the Sun than our Earth. This varies throughout its year by 1.8AU, Being this far away from the Sun means it As in at the upper atmosphere, -220c cold, Its year lasts 84 Earth years. When it was first observed, astronomers predicted After some time though, they realised it hadn't the reason was because there was another planet They predicted where this planet should be Interestingly, the same theory surrounds this Some far out objects in our solar system are this is because of another planet that has The hunt is now on to actually find this planet! Now, what's really interesting about Uranus Most planets rotate like a spinning top on Not Uranus, no Uranus has fallen over and You see, its axial tilt is 97 degrees. This means its seasons are crazy in comparison During its solstice, the time of year when side of the planet always faces the Sun while It kind of looks like the planet is rolling Only a very narrow strip near the centre of and night during this time, but the sun only The poles get 42 years of continuous darkness During its equinox, the opposite of a solstice, cycle. Uranus rotates once every 17 hours and 14 Because its surface is not solid though, some others, and due to high winds, some parts only 14 hours. This strange rotation means it is the only at its poles on average than its equator. For some reason though, the equator it hotter why. Speculation also exists as to why Uranus rotates it is generally accepted that a large earth its rotation on its side. How big actually is Uranus? Well it is the least massive of the gas giants, Earth masses. Its diameter is just bigger than Neptune's Earth's. Because this mass is spread out over a large less than on Earth, at 8.7m/s2 or 0.89g. Quite comfortable! And what is it made of? Well it has a rocky silicate material smaller by a mantle of water, ammonia and methane Although it's referred to as ices, this 5000c, and is more like a liquid ocean surrounding The atmosphere is in comparison very insubstantial, most of the mass of Uranus being in the core The atmosphere is comprised of mostly helium, layer on top. It's this methane that give Uranus it's Very interestingly, some models suggest that Uranus is enough to break apart the methane carbon atoms into diamonds. These diamonds rain through the mantle like Unbelievably, the very base of the mantle "diamond-bergs" floating in it. To me, that's a bit difficult to wrap my head around! We'll fly away from the planet just a little system. Uranus, much like the other larger planets It has thirteen, very dark and young rings. Most are not bigger than a few kilometres years old, much younger than Uranus. They are comprised of extremely small particles, made of water ice and dark radiation-processed Their albedo doesn't exceed 2%, or in other As we'll see shortly, Uranus has a lot of result of high impact collisions of some moons It is unclear why some of the rings are kept the rings are being kept in line by shepherd the rings. Uranus was first discovered to have rings The star dimmed a few times on either side confirming the presence of rings. Uranus has only been visited by spacecraft Voyager 2 discovered a lot of the rings and of the faint ring systems. When Voyager flew by though, this only brought When Hubble was launched, it also had a look that had never seen before. The outermost ring is twice as far away from ring. And as promised, here is a look at the many Unusually, the moons are named after figures Overall, Uranus has 27 known moons divided moons, five major moons, and nine irregular The inner moons are connected with the rings the rings materials. The largest of these moons is called Puck, It is the only of the inner moons to be captured Interestingly, these inner moons constantly unstable. There's a good chance some of them may collide The five biggest moons, in order of distance Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon. Titania is the largest moon of Uranus and at 1,600km. Again, as can be seen, these are very dark With the exception of Miranda, which is comprised to be a mix of water and rocky materials. These moons may have differentiated interiors, of ice. Between the core and the mantle could well Interestingly, the axial tilt of the large during solstice, if you were to look at the the sky, never setting. During solstice, only one side of the moon The final nine known moons are irregular moons. They are likely to be captured objects and big moons, Oberon. They vary in size from 20km to the biggest, Finally, let's explore Uranus' climate Uranus' seasons are quite unique in the tilt. We only have data for about one Uranian year able to say with certainty differences between What has been observed is that as the planet a collar forms. Moving away from solstice, the pole and collar This brightness is thought to be because of cause is not clear. Seasons also affect storms in the upper atomshpere. Storms are relatively rare on Uranus compared to be caused by changes in the seasons. And another unique feature of Uranus is its Usually magnetospheres originate from the not the case with Uranus. Also, it's not in line with the rotational This unusual placement means the magnetosphere the south. One theory for this is the liquid diamond even that it is not the core of the planet the water mantle. The magnetosphere is about as strong as Earth's, corkscrews off for millions of km into space. Thank you so much for watching, I hope you've planet. I was dreading making this video a bit because Having done the research though, I found it covered so far. If you want to support what I'm doing here, follow, and I've also started a Patreon I'm making. Finally, I have made a lot of other videos in, so be sure to check them out! See you next time!