MOSFILM SECOND CREATIVE ASSOCIATION Today we say goodbye to our comrades, who gave their lives for the freedom and independence of our Motherland. At this grave of our brothers in arms we swear - to turn into a nightmare every day and night for our enemies, while our hearts are beating, while our hands hold weapons, till the last invader stops trampling the land of our fathers Years will go by. Our children will grow up proudly remembering their moms and dads. They will tell our grandkids how we all defended our sacred land not sparing our own lives. We'll come back home. We'll bring home our victory. We swear. We swear. We swear. We swear. Vyacheslav Tikhonov Ivan Lapikov Galina Polskikh Oleg Zhakov Yuri Tolubeev Harry Pitch (Germany) in FRONT BEHIND THE FRONT LINE based on the novel WE'LL BE BACK 2 years later Squad of special forces under fulfills missions of the Front Command with combat operations Nikolay Vasilievich. Hey, nice guests! Nikolai Vasilievich, Rather bad luck, Ivan Petrovich. - We need your help. Hello. Congrats with forthcoming New Year. - Hello. - Yes. Sashko, take a look how our guys Yerofeich, some tea to the Secretary of - Our tea... - Take your seats. Tell me what's the matter. Last night our aviation destroyed - We've heard about it. Today at dawn a train arrived with They'll be transported to Germany We need to set these people free. Ivan Petrovich, help our Russia Comrade Mayor, another train This train is of 20 cisterns with fuel. How about a New Year 'greeting' - A firework 'greeting'? Just to show them which is which. Right. Go. Bondarenko! Beisembaev! Move to the left bank. Your companies will render support First seize the train with our people Take everyone immediately Don't explode echelons with fuel - Clear. Right. Gasan, take Zina with you and more field medics: - Move, fast. To the woods. Follow us. Get out, girls! Do not be afraid! We are Red Army soldiers! - Are you wounded? - Let me take care. Got a bandage? Don't worry, honey. - Forward! Hooray! - Yurchenko, are all guns safe? - Retreat! - Where is Gorshkov? - What's up? Hurry up! Tell Semirenko, Yeap. Lie down in the sleigh. Listen, please don't tell anyone Take me to your guerrilla formation. Comrade Commissar, Some are wounded, or sick, some feel Give them some hot food. We need to break away a bit Yeap. Also take this girl: she'll help, How do you know she is a doctor? Just believe me. Let's go. Step out! Comrade Major, He had no weapon, no overcoat, - Is he wounded? Where is my gear? Will they return - Was there a suitcase? Walking, weeping about his suitcase - Yerofeich! Cover him with some warm Script - Semyon Dneprov Director - Igor Gostev DOP - Alexander Kharitonov Production designers - Music - Veniamin Basner Cast: Igor Ledogorov Gird Yakovlev Mati Klooren Alexander Romantsov Marina Dyuzheva, Svetlana Sukhovey, Safe trip, comrades. I do not know what to do: she asks Fine. You'll never doubt about it. She worked in a city hospital. By the way, some visited her in - Just only came to look at her. - Heck! Hindering my foot march. I keep this sabre since 1918. - It was Kotovsky who gave it to me. - Oh, we'll meet again. Well, this year will be good: The earth will be good. - What's up, Gasan? Nothing, just slightly hit. Zina! Sorry buddy, I didn't know. Get on the sleigh, comrade Commissar. - Gasan, get on the sleigh. - Let's go! Well, what a pity! - All right, good luck. - Is the liaison the same? - Is Brigadenfuhrer here? Does music still heal your nerves? Rudolf, are you still alive? How are you children and Gerda? Thanks. So far so good. Happy New Year! Thank you, Herr Brigadenfuhrer. Thanks. Take a seat. Glad to start working with you, I need to meet Horn. Can you arrange it quickly? I received an encrypted order What are you so gloomy? What do you mean? Come on, Wolf. I'm right now Listen to me, Sturmbannfuhrer Zange, within the last 2,5 years more than a few hundred echelons The mayhem at the bridge, which And I expect more troubles. Lieutenant Colonel Byuttsov with classified documents. In an hour I have to report this Colonel General von Horn. If you don't find Lieutenant Colonel then he is killed, and there should be no other conclusion. Is it clear, Wolf? That's right, Commander. But you and me should have about the documents carried by I am obliged to warn you, We have some data on information This is your duty, Wolf. Yea...Thanks, Kruger. Air raid is over. Let's go upstairs, Remember, you have very little time Krueger, why doesn't the lamp work? Yes, Herr Commander. Wolf, how many times that Mlynsky's guerrilla formation And yet it still operates. Was it involved in yesterday's combat Yes, it was. This is not just a guerrilla unit, it is a large center of Russian Destroy Mlynsky - immediately this is your main mission, Wolf! Conventional methods of fighting Sturmbannfuhrer Zange approved by Reichsfuhrer Himmler. I'm sure we'll destroy Zange needs your assistance, Oberleutenant Zwunsche, Headquarter - Allow him to replace the lamp. Yeap. - Kruger! Bring me Sturmbannfuehrer Zange. Yeap, Herr Commander. Sturmbannfuhrer, the Commander is Who's the guy? Sturmbannfuhrer is an eminent Well, thank God, Hans: now we can sleep well, at last. - Did you offer him some food? The parasite deserves a portion of lead. Yerofeich, the stove is hot red with Why do you mollycoddle him? As a General Staff officer that silence is not the best defense. I repeat. I am a German officer. I swore allegiance to my Fatherland, Well, Lieutenant Colonel Byuttsov, if you do not see the difference then you risk sharing this grim fate. - May I come? Urgently. See the Commissar. Herr Major, if I tell you will you save my life? I've got some news, Commissar. According to the captive Oberst, who has almost no reason to lie, the Germans create powerful Tank motorized divisions are being As the prisoner claims, all this is made in order to keep the front meanwhile in Germany they focus to build some kind of superweapon. A 'retaliation weapon', as he called it. So, he had an engineering to build new fortified area, which - Did he give you the scheme? So, I will send now Too late. And no chance to find this So, say hello to the grandfather, tell him we miss him. - Have you stitched the encryption? The further you hide it, This is serious, be careful, boy. Don't worry, Ivan Petrovich. You are good, but still be careful. Lyokha, - Well, take care. Well, Trofim, have you brought - Yes, I have. Here you are. - Oh, moonshine! Ride on! Hey boy, come here. - What? - What documents? I'm under 15. I went to the village to change This is what I bring to my sick mom. You, bastard, shut up, drop your bag Get in the car, you will go - Is everything ready? We march on foot this night. If by chance even a child spots us, we'll kill him right away. How will you transport food We'll just carry everything we need. The enemy will provide us Are your people well trained? Our soldiers know Russian All of them are from division They will do away with Break it down! Break it down! Get out, folks, we've arrived. Run away. And don't get arrested anymore. Comrades, this is your food. The Nazis expropriated it to ship to Take all this. Take as much as you can. We can't take everything for us. We have to destroy the rest. Don't be afraid, comrades, Our guerrilla formation "For Now we are determined to fight Take this all, do not be afraid. Eh, well, what will be - will be! Oh my God. Come, come and take it! - Where are you going, Alyosha? To the city, to see my granddad. We wanted to join - Oh, my God! They say, we are too young. Well, goodbye. I am leaving. - Bye. - Wanted to join guerrillas, girls? No, but we badly need some reliable Yes, we are. Our house is - Young Communist League members? Do me a big favour. Combat mission. One of our young men had a wound He lost a lot of blood. We fear to take - We hide him and take care of him. - Mom, stop it. Don't worry, we will come Here you are! Well, cover him up! So good-looking! You'd better bring some water, Grandpa, grandpa, wake up. Lyoshka, Why are you hanging around the city? Well, I urgently needed to see you. You should have waited for me at home. Two days are lost already. - How are our folks? Uncle Vanya sends you his regards. God willing. The young pig we ate just now I bought from peasants and I sold it for 50 marks I earned some money at this dinner, - Well, gentlemen, see you later. Smart guy. I wonder, if he is that smart You won't see him there, What happened, Matvey Yegorych? Urgent message from Ivan Petrovich: I'll wait for you here at Just only come early: there is nothing worse than to deliver What a job I've found in my old age. God, forgive me. - Okay, old man, don't grumble. Thanks. - Feldwebel. Where is the Commandant? If anything urgent, may I help you? My parents sent me a New Year parcel. It was in the train which was bombed All unclaimed belongings were Now they are being unloaded there. You can make it, if you hurry up. Thank you. Give it to me. Who are you? Captain Georg Reisner, Food Supply - What are you doing here? We expect two wagons of cabbage Our Fuehrer attaches great importance Our headquarters is entrusted Based on the fortified areas, we'll destroy the enemy! No need to remind you of in everything regarding This is the prerogative of and the Chief of Engineering Troops, Both of you will stay here, - You report, General. According to special instructions for the 'Bismarck' plan, we carry out construction work massively with prisoners of war If so, the enemy will find out about it. It will find out and also tries to look - Do we have such weak points? Zone &quot;A&quot; is weakly fortified. Behind it, there is a bottleneck between 40 Km to the front line, the border of Zone &quot;B&quot;. Schwarzenberg, all construction labor in Zone &quot;B&quot; should be replaced with our army engineering units. Wolf, you take care of the fate Remember, no information leakage Thank you, Schwarzenberg. Here is a plan of all work in Zone &quot;B&quot;, - I wish you good luck, General. Masha, I can't keep him in my house. - I have an officer who took up quarters. At least to stay for a night somewhere. He's probably having gangrene. They rescued us, saved us from The curfew starts soon. Please help. All right, wait, I'll get dressed. It'll be all right, young man. Thank you, doctor. The wound is clean, the bone is Fever. Rather hypochondria, you know. He has a young and healthy body. You can let him leave in a few days. What's so funny, dear Do not be cross with me, I just thought what honorable who I once treated with bromine and you called them What would they say, when they see us as Bolshevik Indeed, the ways of the Lord Would you imagine, how this all No, dear Andrei Andreevich. We are Russian people. I really can't figure out to live separately from my people. Our people are fighting exactly For the Soviet power. And you say: the ways are inscrutable. There is no and cannot be Serve the officer. Good afternoon, Herr Officer. Please. I need an old one and a little less than God's mother. What? Mother of God. I'll thank you. Chocolate. Okay, I'll look for it. We'll find it. And may this prayer remind us, so that our life is meaningful, so that we can be worthy children of our church and our Motherland. Glory to you, Christ, our God. Lord have mercy! Lord have mercy! Tonight, just for a little while electric power lines in von Horn's You mean, blast electric station? I'll take some fresh air. Meanwhile, I'll lock you - Good. No need to blow up anything. It should look like Find a pole with a shield at the corner - Dog's gates? When kids, we called so this pole You cannot walk under it: Clear. You take a partner. Maybe, I take Alik? He is lame, No need to explain to him Right. Faster. Jump. Feldwebel Allendorf! Double the exterior security! Don't let anyone into Headquarters Yeap, Herr Oberleutenant. I'll personally check internal Report to the SD and also Follow me! Brigadenfuhrer! A blackout occurred External and internal security Emergency lighting is on. Commandant's Assistant on duty I am pleased with your activity, Come off duty and take a rest. Guerrillas looted warehouses, I shuttle to this forgotten by God And the SD... - Can you hear me, Georg? And the SD say: it's none of your What can we do, Walter. They have their job, we have our job. - Eau de Cologne? How about finding a free time With pleasure, Herr Captain. Walter, I'll be waiting for you Good. - What can I do for you? - Move, old man, fast. Send this one urgently with - Right now? Yegorych, ours troops knocked down Very good reason to celebrate! What a man! Disapeared! - You say, in Tarasevichi village? Those dashing guys from the guerrilla May I offer him a bit - Rub him, Yerofeich, rub hard. Besides that, did the old man ask No. Thanks, young man, well done. - I would have split anyway. Here, have a drink. - Oh, no, I don't. You think you know a lot. The first thing is to keep otherwise, God forbid, you may - I won't. Natasha! Natasha! Where is the photo of the map? Mlynsky has just got this film. And if the weather is fine tonight, No good, General, no good. What should I report to the Chief? - That we were waiting for the weather? I need facts. Unit numbers. Their location. And most importantly, why von Horn prepares to deliver assault Give an assignment to Major Mlynsky to thoroughly probe into this area. Let him employ all means. Hold on, buddy, be patient. So that's it. It will be all right. Nurse, apply a bandage. Well, let's see the next one. Multiple shrapnel wound Possibly pericardial effusion. Ivan, we are going to sow bread - Message from the Central Committee. - And what do you have to sow? - Take a seat, Professor. - The lady should take a seat. She's quite good. My congratulations with a good doctor. Well, among our severe patients, This one with a mustache and a boy, All the rest should be evacuated We'll try. - May I come in, Comrade Major? Here are the documents his two-way travel tickets The pass is stamped by the city Here are two checkpoint stamps His passport. Thank you, man. So, I've visited Minsk. Minsk, Andrey Andreevich - - Does she know about it? How does she live? - She gives her regards to you. Andrei Andreevich, the horn is Well, get well, dear Gasan Alievich. - They treat you perfectly. Come to Baku, when the war is over. Our city is beautiful. - We also meet you so well. And hopefully not like I 'visited Hold on, Gasan. Aliyev must be evacuated by all means. He apparently has a lung injury. I detected some swelling. Goodbye, Doctor. I wish you Allow me to help you: the road is long. - Thanks again. - All the best! - Yerofeich, special thanks for your tea. Forward. Put on your trench coat, No. Thanks. When is the plane landing? We have many critically wounded people. If only everything depends on our desire. I didn't have a chance to thank you for allowing me to stay By the way, how do you live here? I am okay. Like all the rest. Good. And there is nothing I am glad, Don't worry, I'm not worried about that. I'm worried about something else. May I stay till you come back At least, I catch the next plane. Comrade Major, we can take off. Good. Gasan, get well soon. - Careful. Come on. Let's go. Herr Major, I want to thank you. Go, Byuttsov. Your destiny is Goodbye, I'll see if the Commissar Good luck, Zina. Irina, you are responsible for all here. Do not worry! - Bye! Write down and issue by order "In view of the villainous murder the following people are arrested Rector of the city church, Father Paul, aka Vorobyov Pavel Ivanovich, Chief Physician of the city hospital Professor Belyaev Andrey Andreevich, merchant Egorov Zakhar Spiridonovich". You can get the rest from our files. "If the murderers are not found, we will Print and paste up the leaflet around Second. Make sure the following obituary "Yesterday the bandits murdered Oberleutenant Otto Siegfried Zwunsche, German Army officer and devoted son of his Fatherland." Add some words - expression of sorrow Where is the film? Tell us and we forget about you Swallowed? Destroyed? Handed to someone? Namely, whom? This is a gross misunderstanding. I know everything. We've been following you for a long time. The priest, the doctor, the icon dealer. If some more, they will be here soon. Even Mlynsky. Where's the film? - Hello, Erofeich! - How is life? Why are you so aggressive? May I speak to you, Comrade Major? The unit returned from reconnaissance - What did you spot? Have you crossed the highway? The tracks are well-rolled. Clear. Have some rest. Everything is quiet. Well, commanders, what shall we do? Looks like, no suspicious clues. - Chief of Staff. Why attention was referred to sector 27. Where is that fortified which was mentioned by captured Comrade Commander, let me set a fire: Everyone is cold here, let them jump. You can't make a fire. Everything is too calm here. It's all peanuts. We need to dig deeper. Not 20 km, but 50 km. What is there? What is there? Gorshkov! Leonid! - All right - 50 km. I'll join them too, Comrade Major. Russian reconnaissance unit Let them go to reach combat outpost 2. Take the left road. Step out! - Move fast! we need a halt: they are tired. Sure. I see. Hello, Ivan Petrovich. - Solodov, Trofimych, are you okay? Nikolai Vasilievich, our Party Secretary - He needs to see you. Well, we take a little rest, - Where is he now? - If you tell me where to find you. There are two villages here: Thanks, I keep bearings We can trust the village chief But in the Selishchi village there is - He was a school administrator. Yes, Gerasim Lukyanovich Pavlushkin. He serves the Nazis like a guard dog. He lives like the master of life. Tell the Secretary of Regional Committee, Hello Pavlushkin. Hello. Ivan Petrovich. - May I smoke? Have you waited for us? Sure, I have. And their garrison was here. But you haven't show up. So many things to do. Not here. - Ivan Petrovich! Please, don't do it here. I haven't come to kill you, Pavlushkin. Let your fellow villagers Let them decide, so it will be. Gerasim Lukyanych, invite your guest Thank you, we have no time. Shall I wait for you? No. Don't. Water. - How long has it been? - And where is her husband? Towel. Is it true, Pavlushkin will be judged - Probably. that he had provided Well, smile. Be patient. Everything will be all right. - Hello, vagabond. Something happened, Ivan Petrovich. Captain Afanasyev will report to you now. Here's a lost soul! Not captain Afanasyev - You are still a poor Hauptmann I congratulate you, and with the Order - Congratulations. Now, I have some bad news. Come on in. Make sure that no one bothers us. - Erofeich, bring something to eat. Well, now... - Sit down. - No problem, feel cold? Take a seat. So, what? Zwunsche is killed. - German anti-fascist. Local newspapers report, someone What attempt? Who could do it? I think the Gestapo is behind it. Probably so. Priest Pavel was arrested. Zakhar died during his arrest. If Zwunsche was under surveillance, it's not hard to trace his connections for professionals. Who else was arrested? Professor Belyaev, as well. But this could be just a coincidence. If so, it's strange why they still Anyway, give shelter to both guys. I've done it. And something else. If Zwunsche was tailed, why have they taken care of him now that we've got the plan The murder of Zwunsche is a mystery and the arrest of his contacts Zwunsche provided us with information So, this sector 27 is also a mystery. We only tried to infiltrate a bit there and immediately encountered Yurchenko and 18 soldiers died. I got a strange feeling, we have seen something, This sector is like a bottleneck. It's hard to get through Ivan, maybe all these three riddles are of the same nature: as if provided - Here it's really warm. Hey, what's up, Garkovenko? - I'd like to smoke, Comrade Commander. - Hello. - Well, are you warm now? - Do you feel well? This is the main thing. How long are we here? We leave this morning. - What's up? - Look, sailor. - Are you local? Actually, I'm from Novgorod. I went to Crimea for vacation. And we arranged a school in this hut. There was a real teacher in this Anna Andreevna Mlynskaya. She said: "Our children must study". So, she was teaching them at home, Then the school was burned down. They say one of our boys set fire to it. Then Pavlushkin, all local members of Young Communist They took these youngsters I was not arrested then: nobody knew about me. Anna Andreevna found me on the road when I was reaching the village. I was sick. After recovery I started And suddenly, the Gestapo... How was it? Terrible. We had a lesson in the afternoon, One of them spoke Russian well. I remembered his last name - Klein, because klein in German means small, but that bruiser was nearly 2 meter tall. They said "Get together" to children Then they drove us out. Anna Andreevna managed to whisper us, but we stood close and saw. They pushed Anna Andreevna out. She hugged a little girl to her. The elder boy, Volodka, This Klein pushed him in the car. The soldiers splashed gasoline We ran to get grandmother however, she was already lifeless. We're leaving tomorrow. We're leaving tomorrow. Invaders forbid you to sow grain under penalty of death. What do you think it means, comrades? This means, the enemies feel: they will not survive to see autumn Hence the earth should not yearn like a woman should not yearn So, it is vital to sow, let us sow You need to do it, dear comrades. No doubt, we'll stand up for you. Now the last issue of our agenda... Erofeich, bring him here. Here is the son-of-a-bitch. - Herod. Strangle this damned bastard! What shall we do with him? Don't speak altogether at once. Who wants to speak first? I want! These little kids are orphans now! What a grief. It was the judgment of people, Gerasim, and now here's the judgment of God. Sorry. Take aim at the traitor of the Motherland! Fire! Look, Zwunsche, who did you Nobody. Be reasonable. You're German. You will not die, if you tell me where, I really can keep my word: in fact, you helped us. Plan &quot;Bismarck&quot;, which you gave is just a disinformation plot, a bait to trap the Bolshevik beasts. It's a pity, you don't believe me, After all, you will die but like a traitor. Think well, Zwunsche. Go, if you have nothing to tell me. END OF THE FIRST EPISODE