The Future of Reasoning Hey Vsauce! Michael here. Where is your mind? Is it in your head? I mean, that's where your brain is -- and solves problems ... but you also remember And you solve problems and make judgements The more you think about it, the more you of fat and protein, no firmer than a glob it's an ever-expanding organ of tissue AND And people. Because of communication we can even make We can access their memories and perceptions Or not. I don't need to learn how to fix a car AND remember everything ... other people are doing We are a species of individuals that is also A frantic blur of flesh and concrete. A 'techno sapien' powered by imaginations we call REASON. Reason, it is said, guides us to truer knowledge It's allowed us to increase life-expectancy, bound to take us further and higher until Or is it? The organ we USE to reason takes millions grow rapidly and are ever accelerating. In the next four decades, we're expected city every month More concrete was installed in the last two during the entire 20th century. This growth means that quality of life around It means that electricity, manufactured goods, more common and accessible. But there are hints that reason and logic all; against our growing dependence on the consequences. Nearly every part of life as we know it today molecules with lopsided electrical charges. This property causes them to absorb and re-emit it escapes into space more slowly. Having more warmer parcels of air means stronger They can't be pinned on any particular extreme more extreme and frequent. What's a stake isn't just 'bad weather' property lost, it's more droughts, more and a even greater reliance on the very things In total, we release about 51 billion tons zero. But how do you re-think ... everything? Who gets to direct the costs and tradeoffs? How do you achieve collaboration between nearly works in one place won't work everywhere, food in another. When not just things need to be re-thought, How do you achieve consensus when a problem in space and time, requires solutions that product of science, always carries some uncertainty? The philosopher Timothy Morton calls something and so viscous -- so STICKY that it adheres Every civilizations that grows at the speed In fact, the fact that we still haven't Earth has been brought up as evidence that few civilizations manage to get past. That a hyperobject like our impact on the a new idea. What it'll take to solve it is the topic And I decided to do this video in partnership with hyperobjects reveals a lot about the It's easy -- and common! -- to think that just more rational. But what if reasoning wasn't built for what Let's begin by looking at behavioral inertia. Behavioral inertia is the tendency to keep Status quo bias. It can be a frustrating bias if you desire If an organism has managed to survive long its offspring, then the state of its world, That's all it takes to persist. The types of organisms we see around us will and didn't, after reaching the point at much. Behavioral inertia can help slow down the the loss of ideas that work, but it can also If the environmental impacts of our society be so tempting to apply this inertial brake. But emissions are invisible and their consequences They impact future people and people far away. Those who are different from us, poorer than This may be one of the first challenges advancing power of technology and distributed cognition, Extending not just the mind but also EMPATHY Our lower instincts may bias us, but surely, we want, right? Well, what IS reason? It's a way of making inferences. An inference is any new information extracted We make inferences all the time -- every We don't have measuring-tape tentacles that our brain is just a 2D image, but our brains like stereopsis, occultation, perspective, When this happens, we accept it as reality. We aren't aware of the visual processing be. If, however, we do consciously consider WHY that's REASONING. Reasoning is the process of making inferences by looking at facts and seeing what conclusion When Eratosthenes calculated the circumference of the value accepted today, he didn't do just percieve it as self-evident, he INFERRED long it took camels to move. Stories like that make it easy to believe our abilities; it clearly moves us towards no other species could infer. Attempts to describe the rules of good, orderly so general and abstract that while we were longer beasts. But that's the rub, isn't it? If reasoning is so great, why are we the only it? And if its purpose is truth and good judgement, These questions make up what Hugo Mercier It's tempting to think that disagreements those who disagree with me are being irrational. Urgh! If only people would use reason and logic. What's happened to the world! That's a fair complaint if you're arguing logic puzzle. this, however, is: Paul is looking at Mary. Mary is looking at Peter. Paul is married. Peter is unmarried. Is a married person looking at an unmarried Yes. No. Or not enough information to decide? think about it. The answer is YES. You may have thought there's no way to know, But she either is or she isn't. And if she IS, then she, a married person, If she ISN'T then Paul, a married person, No matter what Mary's deal is, the answer When people get this puzzle wrong and the almost always immedaitely see why it's right Life is not usually like that. Now, take a look at this logical syllogism: All elephants are awesome. Michael is an elephant. Therefore, Michael is awesome. This conclusion is logically valid. But it's not SOUND. The conclusion follows from these assumptions, No. I am NOT an elephant. Also, this premise ... is subjective. What does it MEAN to be awesome? Can you measure it with an awesome-ometer? So you can see why, when analyzing something be a partial tool. If some people have more to lose than others, Still, though, it would seem that reasoning If each of us would just attend to ONLY the reasonable approach. Problem is, that's not how reasoning works. Since the scientific study of human reasoning found again and again that we're not only seem PROGRAMMED to be bad. Like the flaws are intentional... In an episode of Mind Field I once used a He asked people to look at two faces and choose with, placing their preferences in one pile, Then, the pile of people they picked were a REASON for why they chose that person. But with a little slight of hand, the magician had just rejected. Amazingly, the majority of people didn't Not only that, they were able to effortlessly choice they never actually made. Remembering faces you've only seen briefly studies have shown that even if the task involves beliefs -- things we would seemingly have participants will fail to notice that answers later asked to explain them. Point is, we seem practically BUILT to give NOT the reasons we actually used to reach What if we don't even USE reasons to form Let's talk about INTUITIONS. Our brains have evolved over millions of years ways with little to no input from us. For example, when you notice that someone "ok, so their eyebrows and oriented like ... hmmmm ... ah ha! those are reasons to Instead, the belief that they may be upset You intuited it. You 'know' it without exactly know HOW The mood recognizing parts of your brain operate BUT if someone asks you, why you think they're of reasons -- some may have been the ones But they're all just guesses. Instead of using reasoning to COME to conclusions, To be fair, we CAN go the other way. We love puzzles and when we don't have a and mull over various reason to think one Our love of puzzles suggests that reasoning Organisms that found it pleasurable would But when we reason alone, even when we have we STILL exhibit deep biases that seem less For example, it's been shown that between prefer to buy the one with more features -- even plan to use them, and think they're all Why? Well it might be that we find such decisions We won't feel embarrassed if someone criticizes After decades of findings like this, Hugo that reasoning to help us make better decisions, Humans inhabit a cognitive niche on this planet. We aren't strong or sharp or hidden or venomous, reasoning and cooperation. We can plan hunt, build traps, and engage and modified on the fly, not by millennia Reasons allow us to so those things. It's hard to convince people that your intuitions But if you can give REASONS for them, its people that you're right. Reason also allows us to justify ourselves To explain who we are and express the kinds expect from us, and what we will likely expect This social theory of reasoning helps explain arrive at different views. They each have their own unique brain and THAT'S what drove their thinking. The reasons they give may or may not be the but it's the best anyone can do. The social theory also explains why people at first or when their intended audience doesn't It would be a waste of time and cognitive for everything I said and did and thought Instead, I can off-load some of the work to If I say, "I want to have lunch at ABC Burgers" burgers yesterday" and I might reply back, have hot dogs and great salads" But if my friend said "ah, no thanks, I'm month" I might reply, "oh well ABC Burgers What's going on there is that I'm providing them. If they press harder and harder, my reasons I win them over, or we come to some different, So when people appear to be lazy reasoners usually just the case that they're using It starts off weak, improving if others push audience. the social theory of reasons can even explain little sense. For example, it would seem that in coming an organism to pay particular attention to That way, they would be able to adjust their more complete. To a certain extent, that IS what happens When someone "does their own research" wanted after all. When a person strongly believes that our impact to gravitate towards reasons it might not This is called the CONFIRMATION BIAS: our information so that it confirms what we already It frustrates our ability to accept new, inconvienent view of reason. If reason is for finding truth and making weakness? Because, the social theory says, reasoning If I think that option A is true and the best, if we both researched BOTH options and sifted we would both have twice the work to do than reason for why I was right, and you attended The confirmation bias at least HALVES the Now sometimes a lone reasoner will have a Or a decent idea with some bad parts. The reasons they have to justify and argue who intuitively agree but may be weak. But subjected to deliberation, put forth into be evaulated and judged not by one mind or special ... the crowd. Humans have long known of the WISDOM OF THE of many people can process information into do alone. It's why we don't trust big decisions or powerful they are. Instead, we ask a group of to deliberate. To reason together. In this way, the biases and errors of each In a famous example, it's been repeatedly guess how many jelly beans are in a jar, you'll is CLOSER TO THE REAL NUMBER than any one Even the smartest individual. What happens is that although some people is balanced out by the fact that others will All together, their disagreement evens out We have now arrived at the problem. Reasoning evolved to be used socially where towards a common conclusion. Such contexts are becoming less and less common. And it is becoming easier and easier to simply viewpoint without doing the harder work of The internet gives voices to more perspectives makes it easy to disengage from accountability you do. Furthermore, because of technology, we confront that we're expected to have opinions about. And the growing complexity and specialization each of us to have well-informed prepared intutions we must form. in response, we look for lone reasoners who They reasons they give don't need to be justification exists. In the past, unconvincing reasons had to be But now, the democritization of communication ideas can be presented with the same trust-inducing ones. Those who disagree may challenge the reasons and produce betters ones for THEIR side, but It's all preparation for a debate that never You play a very small role in deciding how Even if a good faith discussion between a resolution, if nothing can come of it, why in the pleasure of reasoning by treating everything It's easy to think that it doesn't matter, scientists and powerful billionaires, will Some giant TECHNOSALVATION is surely on the Perhaps it is. But everything we know about reason suggets accountable by as many different perspectives Leaders could lead deliberations and be elected but that's boring! Why lead when you could follow: look at what why they're right, and they'll love it! Of course, the hard work -- the REAL work planet, is not in telling poeple that they're in so doing, use reason as it evolved to be The future of reason may in fact be the past In practice, what does all this look like? Some researchers have gone so far as to recommend celebrate by literally joining small groups reasons. Tests of such strategies have shown that a our reasoning abilities evolved to excel in of not just what they believe and why, but and actions that could be taken. Others have gone even further, recommending is the construction of a lottocracy. A form of government where decisions are made chosen at random. We decide the fate of a person this way, why What IF decisions were made not by politicians of actual citizens representing differences together and paid for their time to learn issue until a conclusion was reached or, at Instead of being motivated by re-election, at random would have only their conscious Special interests and corporations wouldn't -- if any one of us could some day serve, of us. Instead of the learning and deliberation being in buildings you can't access, gradually, neighbors would have had the honor. People chosen at random would obviously lack elected leaders cultivate and achieve -- and our understanding of reasoning is making it be leave thinking up to a few great minds, The lumbering organ of thought that is everyone This is, in fact, how democracy first worked: positions in Anceint Athens. Aristotle explained that "the appointment of magistrates by lot is of them is oligrchic" where an oligrachy is government by only a Regardless of HOW reason is brought back to better areanas for deliberation and use them the impact of emissions on the planet, we'll a hundred, a thousand years into the future. I like to think that although widening participation with a kind of existential security. The impact of emission on our planet is not If we can do a good job with it, maybe far to the point at which people can be quantumly back at our time and say, hey, let's bring We could use the cooperative abilities they Ultimately, the old saying that "history We will all some day be teachers ourselves we will some day be the ancients. And we can choose what that will mean. And as always, thanks for watching.