Raised by Wolves is a new sci fi show about life and death and parenting, ghosts and snakes secret identities, ancient alien and sex with God in milk - "Milk!". It's and there's whatever.. this is.. and lotta crazy stuff going on. So what happens In the future, the world is dominated by a loosely inspired by real religion called alongside early Christianity. In the but Mithraism faded away - but in Raised by falls - in one episode we see this painting with the Mithraic sun rising above. Cause the preach about light and purity. Their practices baptism and atonement for sin. But years ago, the there were "formulas" and "blueprints" to build advanced technology - like "quantum and necromancers. Necromancers are powerful robots and change their appearance, and use frost and explode people [to Jackson Pollocky splatterings]. their design was based on a statue of Atlas in destructive power that seems both technological waged a "Holy War" to "take over the world", against the Mithraic were called the atheists. necromancers, so the atheists used child soldiers, official comic, the atheists "blanketed the Earth" necromancers, and left the Earth "uninhabitable" blame the Mithraic for ruining the Earth, so the Mithraic and atheists both seem pretty wasn't enough oxygen, animals went extinct, it So the Mithraic built an ark to take a called Kepler-22b, which is a real exoplanet in have an ark, so they were screwed. two atheist soldiers living off rats in the ruins Marcus and Sue, who have passes to board the Ark. plastic surgery to look them, and steal their Thing is, Marcus and Sue had a son called Paul. and pretend to be Mithraic believers, they also real parents they murdered. The Ark takes thirteen bodies are put into hibernation while their so they can hang out and pray and play duck duck Mary come to genuinely love Paul as a son. Mary getting Paul is like a miracle for her. Within become a real family with Paul. But when the Ark it turns out that someone else got there first. guy called Campion Sturges, and he had He captured a necromancer, and reprogrammed her to Father and a bunch of "frozen human embryos" He programmed the androids to raise the humans in problems that caused war on Earth. arrive on Kepler. It's a harsh primordial and [suspiciously] Earth-like plants. Mother them look "naked, like Adam and Eve" in the Cause Mother was modified to grow their frozen necromancer becomes a life-giving mother. She that look like the nipples of an animal. Cause the the legend of Romulus and Remus - children who to a wolf - and she's a non-human raising kids, Romulus founded the city of Rome, just as Mother's So Mother and Father raise six human children on farm for food, and form a strange little family. have real emotions, but they develop quirky But the planet has dangers and mysteries. They surface is dotted with huge deep pits - Four more children die of a sickness, called Campion. So the colony seems doomed. Mithraic on board. Father thinks Campion should threat. She's committed to an atheistic colony, grief for her kids. So Mother temporarily kills Mother goes on a rampage, and destroys the Ark majority of all humans left. She only saves five At first, these kids hate and fear Mother - they eyes, which she needs to use her deadly powers. caring for the kids, and eventually most of them Tempest, quickly rejects her Mithraic faith. Mithraic priest raped and impregnated her. Mother and anger and the baby inside her. But Hunter upper-class Mithraic family, and is often kind of child, Vita. And the fifth Mithraic kid is Paul, and clever, and makes friends with Campion. on Kepler-22b. They're attacked by mysterious food they've been growing makes kids sick. So they problems. Mother and Father have arguments to be more strict, while Father's more much more powerful than Father, and he sometimes y'know, she killed him that one time. So there's happens. They start seeing the ghost of Tally, falls into a pit, but then miraculously comes planet. And Mother makes a discovery in the woods. pod from the crashed Ark. She uses it to access She realises that Sturges loved her, and come alive within the simulation. So Mother VR sex in a waterfall of milk beneath the gets pregnant. This robot get pregante from and this Sturges tells Mother that this new baby just a practice run - this baby is the future for creator, and her purpose. This pregnant Meanwhile, a bunch of Mithraic [landing parties] Caleb and Mary. And the Mithraic discover a a Mithraic prophecy. According to their scripture, five-pointed pentagonal sides. And these temples the deepest secrets of their faith. So But the secret atheists Caleb and Mary So Caleb confronts the Mithraic leader, Ambrose. in his head, then the stone temple Caleb declares this "Sol's judgement", and So, Mary still just pretends to be religious, and embraces his role as a prophet. We get on Earth. He had always been powerless and follows him, and the power is intoxicating. and along the way they encounter a mysterious living on Kepler-22b. The Mithraic find Mother's and Hunter betray Mother and Father so they get weaponise, and he tries to kill Mother, but the The voice promises that Marcus will be atheist just days ago, but suddenly he's a prophet wants from him. He gets aggressive and controlling and loses touch with his identity - he has a Marcus kills his past identity as Caleb - it's Tyler Durden won. Marcus goes full crazy - so Mary Marcus prays to Sol for guidance, begging to and his family and his sanity all abandon him. isn't really Marcus, so they beat him up, and And uh - you are not meant to eat those. They're some potent magic plutonium, it does things to broken and mad and has nothing but a deranged Meanwhile, Mother discovers that the fetus a Mithraic guy called Otho, and drains his blood was a high-ranking priest on the Mithraic Ark says he did it because Sol told him to. But now, much he prays - just like how Sol abandons Marcus finally getting vengeance and closure. parents to children who aren't biologically and Mary is raising Paul, whose real parents she and the kids get excited, thinking the baby is a His pet mouse who miraculously returned leads hint at human life on this planet. Then parents - that the woman he thinks is his mum shoots Mary. Mary survives, but suffers the guilt, Paul runs off into the night - it seems Father finds out that Mother is pregnant, and he's from him, and she cheated on him with virtual maybe this baby is their new mission?? Father's but then, that mysterious masked man attacks a 'devolved human'. Meaning, there were once they evolved into these animalistic creatures. some of their humanity and memory. He has of like a cult and a box, but before she figures baby - it's a serpent, a flying snake bursts from This horrific scene is inspired by the real-world Mithraism is the tauroctony - the ritual sacrifice just like this childbirth happens in a cave. Sol. And there's this serpent, drinking blood drinks from Mother. There's also dog on the wound, perfect, but there's clearly inspiration here Mother realises that she was bamboozled - that her creator, the human Sturges - this was some birthing a serpent. Mother's afraid that the snake kill the snake by flying into a pit, sacrificing planetary core. They approach it like sperm to They inexplicably pass through the core, and This region is lush with trees and plants, but in Garden of Eden in the Bible. So the season finale, So that is basically what happens in Raised by the snakes and the god and the ancient humans? in interviews which allow us to piece it together. Kepler-22b. It makes Marcus and Paul hear voices, mouse. The entity somehow knows Caleb and Mary's into Mother's memories, and uses this fake virtual And it uses its influence on Marcus and voice tells Marcus not to kill Mother, The Mithraic do what the voice says, because Sol. And there clearly is some connection Their scripture predicted there would be and "demons" beneath the earth. But Sol is not Sturges says that humans just destroy themselves, does not love humans - it loves snakes! It sounds they sucked, so Sol joined team serpent instead. metal cards from the masked man seem to This cult with this box seem to be performing a that this box is a "birthing prison", with wearing has this nozzle for the baby serpent to with pentagonal sides, just like the pentagonal also made the temples, to worship the serpents hole in the temple is for a serpent to come out. of the 'devolved' people and creatures who "something caused these human beings to - sounds like the Morlocks or the Falmer. He the surface" - so maybe the serpents took over But not all the humans became animalistic is "part of a group of creatures" who retained with the serpents. The masked man wants to stop Mother these cards, it's a warning. And that's hide its true snakey intentions. When the masked attempt to prevent the return of the serpents. Cause the pits lead to this central terminal at compares to a "subway system". So maybe the So - thousands of years ago, there were humans on and possibly worshipped them. But then the humans Now humans are back on Kepler, and this godlike born again, the cycle is starting over. But These cave paintings show Kepler-22b, and planet embryos - just like Mother and Father's ship to Kepler to Earth - maybe humans first evolved on to escape the serpents. But how does the ship Mother and Father's ship thousands of years later? instructions encrypted in their religious texts. believe it "was a gift from Sol". Maybe the specifically so they could come back to whole Mithraic religion and their technology But what is this entity? Father and Mother and falling down the pits to this strange fiery core the god Sol, a supernatural all-powerful psychic that while things may seem supernatural, they all, the entity seems to hack into Mother's that "infected" her systems. The showrunner says - when she got pregnant, she was receiving digital is, the entity connects to Mother like a computer, rogue AI, built by the ancient Kepler humans. A liked snakes more than it liked people. That would Earth - with humanity destroying itself with that "everything has a soul". This entity seems to kill himself so that he be together again with mind of all the creatures who ever died on Kepler Another mystery is the prophecy - according to who will lead us to build "a city of peace". because his real parents were murdered. So maybe who's set up as a rival to Paul. By the finale, Campion dead. Maybe Campion will lead a faction The showrunner compares Campion and Paul to kills Remus, then builds Rome. So will Campion a new civilisation? Or is this whole prophecy just In the finale, Marcus discovers another ark above showrunner says the atheists hijacked this could dramatically shift the balance of power on himself king of the planet - setting him up as a threat - the showrunner says that since the and part machine, and has some of Mother's powers, What does it want? Is it a tool of the godlike will it get along with Mother and Father? Campion How will they survive without Mother and Father? be born? Will Hunter be less of a douche? But most importantly, what does this all mean? beginnings and endings, and the interconnectedness of life", so she drains the lifeblood of Father teaches the kids to kill creatures so that a creature, she finds an unborn creature baby in grow on the bones of dead serpents. And Mother's evokes sacrifice. So life comes from blood and maybe it's that sacrifice that It's also about religion and faith. Mother tries Campion prays, and develops beliefs about and find meaning in a cruel chaotic world, just as the atheist android, has religious or spiritual keeps objects that are special to her, making holds fruity little ceremonies with the kids, religious. She believes in her mission and her knocked up by milk God. So Mother's attempts to futile - maybe religious or spiritual feelings Of course, religion can also be evil. The Mithraic don't have souls. The second-highest ranking murders people and destroys his own family in the Religion can be an excuse to do evil, and cause hot either, what with their child soldiers. So Ultimately, humans have gotta believe in the characters in Raised by Wolves survive through strength in their belief in each other. Father and This belief is not rational, or biological. their children, and neither is Mary, but these them, like faith. So maybe the message of Raised need each other. Especially when God is an evil Thanks for watching, please like comment and the creator of Raised by Wolves linked below made possible by the support of our Patrons at Young, lunaxix, Gabriel Harel, Sticky, Michael