- Ready. Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian, and today we have a chance to take a look at this really amazing Walther WA 2000 sniper rifle. And this truly is a legit sniper rifle, or at least that is what it was designed for. The genesis of this rifle goes back to the early 1970s, specifically 1972 with the Munich Massacre at the Munich Olympics. It was a horrible tragedy, and among other things it kind of revealed that the German government didn't have any sort of counter-terrorist response capability. They really kind of had an ad-hoc and in it's aftermath they looked We would see this become like GSG9, and then establishing these elite, small, Well, the Walther company set about designing a sniper This wasn't really developed with there are a whole bunch of aspects of it that but they are compatible with a police use. In 1976 this was actually adopted But that's pretty much it. In total I They ... didn't really actually go into But as you'll see when we take this apart, that ... really ought to be simplified and changed Now, ... there are actually two different models, This is a second model gun, which we can The first model had this kind of And what they did with the second model was really iron So, I guess I should say for folks who don't know, this is a semi- The ... first models were available in .300 Winchester The second model I believe they dropped the Swiss cartridge, so it was just ... 7.62 NATO, and .300 Win Mag. The magazine holds 6 rounds. So, we'll take it apart in a moment but a few of the other elements to point out This looks like a very futuristic rifle, but when we start So let's bring the camera in and go ahead and do that. Alright, so marking on this are pretty WA 2000 model, it does note on the And then just in front of the ejection Note that this is a separate component. We have our German proof marks. I believe the second pattern of these guns You do also have a serial number, And then the left side of the gun mirrors a couple of Lastly we have an import mark here. was a major importer of Walther products in ... specific Alright, so as I mentioned, this is the second pattern's Now if we take a look at the front of this, you'll see, interestingly In many ways this rifle is kind of the first And a lot of the elements that we well maybe they weren't so obvious So, in lieu of this being free floated, The way this rifle is built is basically with and everything clamped together So you'll see the bipod here is mounted to the top rail. These legs are non-adjustable, in fact they (There we are.) Lift these up like that, and then Push that, and that allows me to slide it down the rail, And the bipod legs are usable from either position. Now, on this side we have a front sling attachment, we'll get to this We have our gas block for the gas system right here. The barrel is 26 inches overall length. It is of course a And that's why it has such a Charging handle, non-reciprocating charging handle. Safety is right here. The safety, interestingly, is completely It just has a very short throw, That's safe. That's fire. The indicator is just which of these By the way, to put a little bit of this in context, So these were incredibly expensive guns for the period, Moving back, we have a pair of Wood furniture, a little bit of a curious thing, I guess The palm rest here on the other side of the grip is adjustable. You can loosen this, move it This is an interesting set up. You can but it's actually more designed for the We'll touch on that when we do some shooting with this. The butt plate is adjustable up and And then we also have a very much a target ... It's actually a really good trigger pull. One of the nice things about this being an early generation but they hadn't gone to this kind 2 ounce triggers that you do occasionally These can of course mount pretty but the scope that was typically included with And again, it's an interesting look at the the glass is fantastic, it's a very good scope, The reticle is simply a cross hair, thick lines There's no ranging, there's no mil dot, In fact it's not even a German post style of reticle. The magazine holds 6 rounds, and of course is The magazine release is Push that in, pull out the magazine, we And one aspect of this that they there is very little angle between the ... cartidge So when you're feeding a cartridge there bending the bullet in the case, or otherwise changing The scope is attached not through a Picatinny rail or And the scope itself is bolted to the top rail of the gun, On a rifle like this that was being built today you would to give the best possible accuracy. So Walther did the early R&amp;D on guns like As I said, a lot of the ideas, a lot of the concepts, weren't so much in the early '70s. So field stripping this is not the simplest thing ever, ... I should say, a field strip of this gun Anything further than that requires a screwdriver But, to field strip it the first thing we are And we do that by pulling (pulling this button all the way, there we go), off of it's catch here, and it Next we can take the cheek rest off. It's got a With that off now we have By the way, just because there is this does not mean that this gun is This is just access for dealing with stuff. Now I have two pins right here. What these are to the connecting rods that attach to and slide that connecting rod I have a matching one over Then we can grab the bolt, However, there is another This lever, right here, I have to push up like that in order to let the bolt come out. There we go, alright. There we go. The bolt sits on these two rails, And then you can see there's the notch The bolt itself is a 7 lug rotating affair. So that is the unlocked position, when the bolt The multiple locking lugs are there both because and also because having a whole bunch of locking lugs gives you We have a sliding dust cover here on the side. That just keeps the ejection port covered Alright, and that's field stripped. That's it. Alright, now to disassemble the gun a little farther so that we the first thing we have to do is actually take off the Now, before we go further I want to point out it actually screws into a locking So you can see it right there, but I can also take it and move it, and if I then continue to take the gun apart I will So when you go to put the hand guard back on, you Alright, but moving on. The next step is to take off this side plate, This whole rifle is kind of built on the rail If you look here at the back end, you can see But for our purposes we are just going to So this lifts off. The charging handle has this metal You want to take it out, you bring it back to this position. and ... drop out like that. Simple side plate, I mean it really is just a metal Now inside we can see what's actually going on. We have a gas port in the It is adjustable here, but this is not the sort of thing that you are And then the gas piston is right there. So that will move just slightly back, That block is normally So the little spring button that I had to depress which connects through this hole, and than all It isn't going to at the moment, So, tappet hits this block, this block goes These pins lock into these connecting arms, this connecting arm connects You can see the barrel. We have our castle nut for the barrel And then its front trunnion is basically this. This is like an H block that connects the barrel This is kind of one of those weird guns. You know where there isn't necessarily truly a single receiver, there Alright, I said we would take a It is a backpack style of sling, which is kind of slick. We've got this mounting lug on the front, and goes this way. That goes over the top, tighten that up. And then we take the back end here, And that goes right there. There we go, and there you have two backpack straps, a nice ... Honestly, very handy for police counter- ... I mentioned ... the development started in ... 1972, Less that 200 made, I believe the total was 176. Of those, So kind of ... I would say this qualifies as So, we are going to go out and And then if you are really interested in the shooting and definitely check out the other video where we are doing like Eastern Front 1986. We and see how the two of them Alrighty, let's try a little bit of shooting. - Nope. - Nope. - One more. - That was dead centre. This thing's pretty darn light And I'm shooting it right handed because it is The rifle's owner has told me just makes me a little nervous, so I'm shooting it It's kind of interesting that a lot of this is the cheek rest is not, and the taste, or my facial geometry, It's a very pleasant gun to shoot - Alright, let's see if we can get the - That was a hit. - That was a hit. Seems really quite easy to hit with. Alright. The one other thing I think we that's what this rifle is all about. So, the proper way to do that would be to hand load for this I don't have the time available or the access So we're doing the very next best thing, Black Hills is probably about as good that you haven't actually hand So, a big thank you to It's fantastic ammo, and it should allow us to Alright, we'll go take a look at how that went. Now we did We said this isn't a military rifle, and if something goes But, let's see how the target is. Alright, so there is my fantastic 5 round group Which is, kind of pretty pathetic. Well, that pathetic group really leaves a lot to be like my friend Karl, to do a group with So I think I can tell you about the history, I can show but it really leaves open some remaining compared to some other sniper rifles So, I think what we are going to go ahead and do is a second the practical application of the Walther 2000, and and then on the clock timed benchmark That should be really cool, and that's the sort of thing that I am just not So if you are interested in more about the check out that video which posted And of course subscribe over there as well as Forgotten on all sorts of interesting guns like these coming up. Thanks for watching.