Good morning my friends. I met my Turkish neighbor on the way when I was driving my children to school. I invited her to drink a cup of tea, and she promised me to come today during the day . We Syrians prefer to invite neighbors for a cup of coffee, but the Turks prefer tea. Of course, a cup of tea for the Turks means offering light hospitality next to it And not just the tea of these plants I bought earlier, but today I decided to arrange them in suitable basins. I had the basil plant, but it withered, so I decided to replace the natural plants with artificial ones, if you had not previously subscribed to the channel . They struggle to prepare proper hospitality when they receive guests. I buy my house needs in batches, so you may be surprised that I use some supplies for the first time. These organizations should be organized in a way that saves some space and makes the kitchen look nicer . The loofah should also be changed every time I bought this teapot that I can To bring Turkish tea in it I bought this tray for the decoration of the salon room I bought this set of gilded trays because it is suitable for serving a guest Sweets and Coffee I bought this set of forks and spoons from an online store I chose this tray to be circular because the table is also round We started with the important part of the video :) The recipes that I will prepare today are not only simple and easy, but also suitable for parties, occasions and holidays The first recipe is Sushi Toast as it appears From its name, it looks very similar to sushi. We cut the edges of the toast slice with a knife and then we extend the rest of it using a rolling pin. We grease the toast slice with a large amount of labneh. We cut a cucumber longitudinally, and we take a cat from it and two mint leaves with it, and then I roll the toast slice with it, and then I grease it with labneh from The outside is also the labneh is from the two derivatives of yogurt, which is Mustafa yogurt , then dip it in ground thyme, then cut it and get the shape of sushi :) The second recipe is sandwiches made of slices of toast , the ends that I cut from the slices of toast . We extend the sliced toast slices, put a piece of lettuce and a slice of turkey on it, then add a layer of cheddar cheese and small cherry tomato slices joined in this way Using paper and tongs , the third recipe is layered toast . In this recipe, I will use cherry jam. Any jam can be used. I spread the jam on the slice of toast that has been stretched and cut edges, and I exclude the large pieces of jam. A slice of Kashkaval cheese is placed on top of the jam, covered with another similar toast layer, then cut into squares and finally used The wooden bars to secure it The fourth recipe is a lavash (tortilla) roll. A piece of lettuce, two pieces of cheddar cheese and two slices of salami are placed on the tortilla loaf . The finely chopped tomatoes are placed on top of it, then rolled into a roll and then cut in this way. The last recipe is a labneh hamburger . This bread is opened like The hamburger is painted inside with a spoon of brick and also painted on the outside , then dipped in mozzarella cheese or chopped parsley, as desired . Turkish fermented tea should be prepared using Turkish tea until it succeeds . Hot water is placed in the large jug, then Turkish tea is placed in the small jug. Leave a little while it boils until the tea is roasted. a little bit and then I pour boiling water over it . It is more correct to add water from the big jug, but I used the electric water heater to save time . Thanks for every comment Miz writes in the channel and supports me psychologically to continue this effort . It is indispensable to offer a cup of Syrian coffee to my guest, even if he is Turkish and prefers Turkish coffee :) My neighbor liked the recipes that I gave her very much and she asked me how I prepared them , of course I asked her to watch the video to know the method :) My neighbor gave me this very beautiful gift. I needed such a painting that includes (Ayat al-Kursi) I liked it on top of that in this painting its colors are suitable for the salon room a lot. During the chat with my Turkish neighbor, she reminded me of the need to clean the heaters I had already bought this brush for cleaning heaters I use any spray Designed for kitchen cleaning to help remove built-up dust and grease A little bit of disassembly and assembly is the best way to clean the stovetop Using very hot water as a second stage of cleaning ensures that this area is not a breeding ground for germs This cleaning also helps to get better heating I started to put everything back in its place after successfully completing the task. We have one last step before we leave this thing permanently. It must be vented a little to get the air formed in the summer to appear. The water is coming out. I hope you liked the video.. We will meet in a video soon :)