[Christie] Wow. You guys look so bright and gorgeous. Thanks for letting me be in this space with All right, how many of you guys have ever crazy happened where it just didn't show up? Anyone ever happen? You know, it could be in love, it could be incredibly frustrating. And so, when my intuition developed, I decided... intuition develops, people want you to, kind They're like, &quot;Tell me my future. Tell me what's going to happen.&quot; And, what would happen is I'd look into somebody's They're going to keep creating the same exact How do I help them fix that?&quot; So, I went on the radio one day, and I was she says, &quot;You know, I want to know if my And I'm like, &quot;Oh, my gosh,&quot; because the real Ad so, I said...and this is the moment, like, I said, &quot;You know what? Let me just ask this question, your dad cheated that cheated on you, correct?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; I go, &quot;Let's just fix that pattern, you know So that you don't have to keep creating that again.&quot; And so, then I started working with clients pattern?&quot; And, I've worked on over 25,000 people one-on-one, I did that was because I like puzzles. I want to see how people were wired, and how And, so, basically, what happened is, by looking and seeing what was up, I discovered a lot as human beings, and I decided to do an experiment We decided to create a program called Unlimited And, I wanted to take my cliffnotes of working Everyone, pretty much, in my experience, has, And I said, &quot;Let's do a course where over blocks, we clear people, and we're going to I want to know how much cash, or money, or that.&quot; And so, I said, &quot;Could you guys make a little send me an email telling me how much money make right now?&quot; And so, I did it with only 400 people, and of the people that did send me in the emails, above what they currently had, and that's, So, I'm like, &quot;Oh, my gosh.&quot; Like, you know, &quot;Thank you for being my social works.&quot; And so, my favorite thing to do now is just blocks, and I'm going to guide you guys later start experiencing this stuff just like they So, how does that sound to you? All right. So, how my intuition thing works is basically, energy field, and when I say go into it, I happened, I hear [inaudible] of what happened, and I go in and dad had a money issue, and you duplicated you're just having that same problem.&quot; And, crazy things happen because this energy what I mean by that. One of the participants who did the Unlimited And, Debra sent me her email and she said, and she had her medical reports in it. And she goes, &quot;You don't know what this means, my abundance blocks, I was living in a very in my life. I had hurt myself.I'm walking with a cane, have lost a kidney. And now the new medical report that I'm sending because here's what happened over those three I started eliminating my abundance blocks.I I hike every day. I moved out of my negative environment. I found a man.&quot; She said, &quot;A good one.And, basically, my doctor lose a kidney now.&quot; And, you would think, how could working on Well, because in working with so many people, aches and pains are actually your patterns of reality, and all your thoughts, and your So, I'm going to kind of show you how you So, imagine you're, you know, a little baby. You know, mom pops you out, and what happens So, you as a human are starting to download And, as you grow up, you just keep imprinting things that happened, and, basically, you thoughts, feelings, and decisions. Now, that, in and of itself, is okay. An interesting thing happened. When I was working on clients, and they'd and they'd be 30, 40, 50 years old, and they them back, most of the first imprinting occurred So, that's why they've been doing all these things, and they say, &quot;Christie, it's not Like, I keep clearing the same stuff.How come And the secret and the clue that I learned is usually where the first imprint is, and shift as easily. You know, I'm not saying they don't, or they then, you know, you go along the road, and else happens. And that's because you didn't get the first And so, I'm going to show you guys how to Now, how many of you guys have ever done a you think, &quot;Hey, I'm going to go manifest I'm going to go make a million dollars,&quot; and Like, something happens in your world or your the car breaks, you lose your job? Has anyone ever had that happen? You're like, &quot;What in the heck just happened?I God. Now my world's falling apart?&quot; Well, what happens is you have a conflictual I call it cross-purposes. You have two competing purposes fighting you. So, one part of you is saying, &quot;I want to more than enough, and the universe completely and then this other part of you is going, That stuff doesn't work. You're not abundant.&quot; You know, how many of you guys have those your affirmations? Well, those are your patterns, okay? And those are an amazing love gift because As soon as that negative stuff comes up, you you, and you could say, &quot;Oh, my God. I'm finding a cross-purpose.I'm finding something and now I have the opportunity to change it So, how many of you guys, when that stuff course, is like, &quot;Are you kidding me?This Wouldn't it be cool to look at it from the It's another pattern that I get to uncover, So, that's how I actually look at my patterns I was working with a client, I had taken some fun, and, all of a sudden, I looked at her show up?&quot; She goes, &quot;No. I hate it.&quot; I go, &quot;You know what? I love it, because I know I can change it She goes, &quot;Oh, I'm going to rephrase it.&quot; And so, what we're going to do is I'm going going to delete and find...we're going to Now, patterns that are negative would be anything depression, anything that would contract you When I look at somebody's abundance, I can two seconds, tell you if they're abundant And, how would I know that? Well, when I look at an abundant person, their way around them, and they're open to give When I look at somebody who is not abundant, around them, and it's kind of contracted. And so, I'm going to guide you through a meditation one thing alone will actually start shifting I had a client, and when she came to me, she 30s. And she goes, &quot;I knew I should have called My guidance told me to do so, but I kept avoiding And she said, &quot;What happened was I just had the accumulation of every guy I've ever dated And she goes, &quot;I knew my patterns were talking And she'd had this history of...and I didn't but she had this history of bosses who hit She had this history of men cheating on her, always tied to money, love and money tied So, I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; And she didn't tell me any of this. I just knew her first name and she showed It seems to me that when you were born...actually mom had such huge emotional trauma, and worry, Does that make sense?&quot; She goes, &quot;Absolutely.&quot; And, I go, &quot;Okay. Well, don't tell me anymore. And it also feels like at 10 years old, 18 all these other ages. I said, &quot;These are the ages which you also Abandoned, you hate men, men take your money, She goes, &quot;Absolutely.&quot; I said, &quot;So, what happened?&quot; And she said, &quot;You know, what happened is And, sometimes I'll find these patterns on were born. &quot;And, my dad had left my mom, so my mom is I mean?&quot; Women weren't as empowered as we are now, now. And so, like, she didn't have a job or anything, So, she has a new baby, she don't have a job, And she goes, &quot;In those other ages you labeled, So, at 10 years old, he came in and left me, then, all the other ages, I had a guy who you know?&quot; And so, anyway, we cleared that pattern, and She had sent me an email, and then I called Like, first off, she started her own business, like any of those other patterns. So, that's how remarkable and quickly shifting root thing that's creating the real problem. So, if you guys still have your problem, I that's holding it all together. Okay? So, we're going to go into a meditation, and root thing. So, step one is we're going to locate the the pattern. And, we're all going to do this from a very All right. So, every one of you intuitively and inherently So, close your eyes. And I'm going to have you take your energy the light. Now, everyone inherently knows where the light it,&quot; or, &quot;I'm going to connect to source about it.&quot; So, take your energy up 300 feet where you light to start coming into the top of your And this light is pure abundance. This light is pure abundance. And it's truth. So, allow this light to come in and start And allow this light to come into your eyes You're safe, you're loved, you're supported, And allow this light to come into your ears, And allow this light to come into your throat, connection between your heart and your head. And allow this light to come in to your heart, you can you feel abundance. And allow the light to come into your solar any of those lower emotions. And allow the light to come into your hip you felt disempowered. And allow the light to come into your root in the new reality, you can stand in your And allow the light to come into your legs, And allow the light to come into the center Now, there's this interesting energy in the It's a dimensional energy, and it just feels And, when you connect to it, you naturally So, connect to this energy that feels like grounding. So, we want to feel safe in this world, so So, we're going to connect the light from Allow this light to come up into your legs, heart, into your throat, into your head. You're now connected from above and below. And, because I know that you guys are abundants your energy out 360 degrees all the way around from your heart. And take this energy out 5 feet, 10 feet, And find the space that feels abundant and All right. And, I'm going to now ask you guys some questions Now, how this intuition stuff works is the you can actually think about it, so the first is the answer. Okay? So, I want you to think of a time when you What age is that? Okay. Because I know how these patterns work, in field, there was probably an earlier event So, when is the first imprint, the first age of, &quot;I don't have enough money?&quot; What is the first age that you have the pattern And, did you duplicate that energy from your else? Now, usually all the thoughts and feelings in, on, and around you, because your soul So, I want you to point to the part of this When you think of not having enough money, feel heavy? And point to that energy. And then, I want you to ask, &quot;What's the main tied into it?&quot; Okay. So, I want you to now bring in a lot of light. So, you have light coming in your body. I want you to bring in a lot of light into think along with me, &quot;I'm going to clear and space, and reality.&quot; So, we're bringing in light and we're blowing to clear and transmute it, instantly vaporize reality.&quot; And we're doing it from that place because tied to the pattern. So, everywhere you didn't have enough money, all time, dimension, space, and reality. Everywhere you didn't feel supported by the it across all time, dimension, space, and Everywhere you didn't have enough when you time, dimension, space, and reality. And, I can feel it that some of you guys need So, some of you guys who are kind of backing pattern. We're going to clear and transmute it across So, most of people's abundance stories come So, I want you to ask inside, &quot;What was my Did your mom have plenty of it? Did she say there was not enough? Did she say, &quot;You guys cost me money?&quot; What was your mom's main story about money? And ask, &quot;What was my mom's main emotion about And then, I want you to ask, &quot;At what age I duplicate this pattern? At what age did I play out this pattern?&quot; Okay. Point to the heaviness of it, wherever it Wherever you feel this pattern, point to it, part. Okay. And then, we're going to say, &quot;We're going dimension, space, and reality.&quot; We're going to clear and transmute it, everywhere across all time, dimension, space, and reality. We're going to clear and transmute everywhere clear and transmute it across all time, dimension, and anywhere. &quot;I'm carrying this burden from my mom's energy transmute that across all time, dimension, &quot;Any other emotion that I have tied to this,&quot; space, and reality. Okay. One more time, you guys, bring in a lot of Today is the day you can get rid of it. So, clear and transmute that across all time, Okay. So, let's ask this question, &quot;What was my What was my dad's story about money?&quot; That there's not enough? That you should be stingy, greedy? What was your dad's story about money? What was your dad's main emotion about money? &quot;What age did I duplicate my dad's energy energy about money? And, what's my main emotion about money?&quot; Okay. Point to where it feels heavy, or tight, or Okay. So, bring in a lot of light into that space, space, reality. We're going to clear and transmute everywhere all time, dimension, space, and reality. Clear and transmute everywhere you're living that across all time, dimension, space, and Anywhere and everywhere you're living the about money, clear and transmute that across Okay. Please bring in a lot more light into that Okay. Any other pattern that you duplicated of &quot;not clear and transmute that across all time, And then, after we clear things, I like to So, I want you to just bring in a lot of light &quot;What would it take for me to be totally abundant?What What would it take for me to be supported?What What would it take for me to have more than What would it take for me to always live in Any other thing you want to fill into that Okay. And, just know that you can come back to this the day, okay? Because once we start unleashing these patterns, So, if you guys start feeling tightness around and ask, &quot;What's up?&quot; And then I want you to add light. And so, when you're ready, just kind of open I would actually like to ask somebody a question. So, who here found a pattern that they were What's your name? - [Ann] Ann. - Hi, Ann. So, what did you discover? - I realized that my mom had a feeling that for herself, that...my parents were separated saved. She was very conservative. She felt like she could be smart by retaining There's a fear there that she didn't have - And, did you find...is there any place in didn't know it was from mom? - Yeah. - Yeah. Okay, good. And, no...I mean, it's, like, awesome, now - Absolutely. - Give her a hand. Anyone else have a pattern that they weren't - [Chris] Hi, my name is Chris. - Hi, Chris. What did you discover? - Well, I never really thought about my mother's And the pattern that emerged was that my mother She grew up as an orphan, and my father grew their money in the Great Depression. So, he grew up around scarcity. And, so he was a big control guy. - And, did you ever play out your mom's pattern - Actually, I never realized it until now, - That's awesome. Happy discovery today, right? - Yes, indeed. Thank you very much. - Give him a hand. Okay. All right. So, I'll give you guys a hand for awesomeness,