- Hey, you ever wondered into a trust via living While in this video I'm various types of assets and into your trust to get to make sure they're protected or if it's for estate planning to your beneficiaries All right, let's get started. Okay, so when it comes to transferring an asset into the trust, what you're saying is that you need to change title on the assets of the trust so that the And this is key because that you currently hold are then they do not exist in that trust. And I see this a lot with people when it comes to creating trust. They have a trust here of property, well that trust is never listed on title to this property. Therefore, when this to another individual, they take the trust, but it And that's why funding So many people set up trusts and they never transfer so they get no benefit So here's what you have to look at. When it comes to funding before I talk about real and investment accounts and personal effects, I just want you to understand what we're doing. So when you set up a trust or you transfer title of the trust, what you're doing is you're of that trust because trustees hold title to assets for the benefit or what we call the trust beneficiaries. So you actually transferred legal title or equitable title to And so what that implies is and the name of the trust will be listed on title to that asset. So you would do it as follows. If I was a trustee of a trust, it would come to Clint Coons trustee of the Green Frog Trust. Now that's another thing, you can come up with any name you want the thing about trust and naming them is that I mean there isn't with that you have to go and make sure the name is available in order to use it like you would with the LLC or a corp. With trust, you can just that suits your fancy. So in this example, I would set up the trust in the name of the trustee, of the Green Frog Trust. Now you can do it the reverse as well. So sometimes when we if we don't want the trustee's we can move all of this and put it at the end. So title could be transferred as follows to the Green Frog Trust, Clint Coons, trustee. Like that. Now either way is but you have to use one of those. Sometimes people say, well, I'll just put on the and I'll transfer assets The problem with that is to your property, unless you're working with an attorney when it or transferring the assets on and you have a longstanding relationship, this could create a cloud on title for you that may be a problem in the future. So they want to see the Okay, so we've nailed how you or how the trust is set up to accept title to real estate or assets. So let's talk about transferring So if I have real estate and I want to transfer this or I want to transfer this is my living trust, this it's going to be the same process. What I will do is I will deed So let's say the individual's So what Stacey's going to to the trustee of the trust So that would be done via a warranty deed. Do not use quit claim deeds to do this. Use warranty deeds 'cause you do not want to So Stacey would then Let's say we're using it the first way and I was serving as a Esquire trustee of the, I'm just going to put GF And then you have the trust So she would transfer as trustee of the trust. Now generally speaking, I what I refer to as a nominee So I would just do that But if it's not investment property, 'cause in this example here, this is Stacey's rental house. So she's probably going to want and there's lots of reasons to do that. I have plenty of videos on that topic. So there she's going to or she may use a Wyoming both of which give her anonymity so the title no longer So people don't know Now, if she was transferred there's a scenario where say many times you're going to be your trustee of your own living for estate planning purposes. I'm the trustee on my living trust. So there, I'm going to as trustee of the Green Frog Trust. Let's assume, of course you with the same name as your living trust. You always want to have but then she would just transfer of this trust and that Now this property, if she by her living trust for And when she passes away or she's incapacitated, the and then be placed in the or beneficiaries when it's ultimately distributed out to her. So real estate, what you're doing is you're deeding property from your name into the trustee's name and That's how you handle real estate. Do not allow real estate to reside in your personal because if it's investment real estate, well there's no asset protection there. When it sits in your own If it's not investment real estate, it's your residence. Or if you're not using a structure for your investment real through probate with that asset. You want to make sure it avoids probate. So that's why you have a living Okay, so the second thing I'd like to talk about are business interest. How do I move a corporation, an Inc or maybe an LLC that I've set up? Because right now my LLC, if you were to look at my operating that Clint is the member of the LLC and I have this trust down here. This is my living trust, for estate planning purposes Well, if I keep this LLC in as the member of that LLC, this LLC has to go through in order to get it passed And just think about it, are going through a divorce, maybe they're involved in a lawsuit. Now that LLC could be party and be something that a creditor or a disgruntled ex-spouse So what we want to do that our business interests are funded, is what we call this, funded or transferred And there's a really simple process here in order to move business you do it via an assignment. Okay, so what this means is of paper where you would state 100% of my membership interest in LLC. Let's call this Red Box LLC, Red Box LLC, to the living trust. You sign that document and then you have a trustee's where the trustee of the living trust accepts that assignment or this membership interest Now this LLC is held by your living trust by your completing that Now, when I'm assigning if a client comes in and the client has multiple I can take care of it all and transfer all those business interests into their living trust for them. So transferring over the LLCs and the business interest It's something many and they'll get transferred in there. Now the operating agreement itself, it still says that you are the member of that LLC even though So what do you do there? Well, the first thing it's up to you, it's optional, is you could restate and by restating the operating agreement, you'll list your living because you're no longer the member, now your living trust is. And so your name would be removed on that new operating agreement and the trust would sign on. Now, the problem I have with that and restating the operating with a corporation, this does not matter, but this really pertains to that operating agreement and if you're ever trying to get a loan or you're dealing with 'cause maybe you know it or it's a business and the third party asked to see a copy of this operating agreement right here, they're going to look at they're going to see the living trust and they're going to go, oh, we need to see a copy of your living trust. So I prefer to leave my name on my operating agreements even though they're held by the living trust via that assignment of interest. So when someone's looking, and try to drag that into the back office attorney and scrutinize all the documents I prefer not to do that. So I don't change my operating agreement. Now the last thing I'd leave that is also something to look at. These are not your LLC interests, maybe that it's an LLC, a syndication that you have an interest in, or maybe you're involved you need to make sure that allows you to make this assignment. Or is there a certain in order to assign your interest? And so this really applies to individuals who maybe don't even understand what they're doing when they're For example, in our in our operating agreement, that allows for this type of an assignment over to a trust without the of the other members in or any third party. It's what we call a permitted transfer. So you want to make sure an interest in your LLC, that you have a provision in there that allows this type of that you must go through. And the reason I say this is because if it ever got challenged, that trust never owned that asset because you didn't go And there's been plenty of cases where creditors have challenged and they've unwound them because an individual did not understand that there were certain hoops in order to make the assignment effective. Alright, so the third thing that we want to look at are So bank accounts, all right? If you have an investment those types of things, CDs, treasuries, any financial account that in order to get that into the trust, you cannot use an assignment. You actually have to open up a new account under your trust name. So if it was Stacy and she had a bank account, CDs and treasuries, she of the institutions where and she'd say, listen, I and I would call on my new account. She'd say it's the Green Frog Trust, okay, Stacy, as trustee, it depends on the institution, how they're going to set this up. But the fact of the to open up a new account and then they will roll all your positions into that new account name. Now obviously if you you're probably saying, you've told me that the and treasuries should be in a Wyoming LLC. That is correct, and I will But if you have not done if you've set up a living trust, get those assets by opening a new account and then having them over to that new account. Same with the bank. Now the thing about setting up these accounts, you know, Green Frog Trust, your checks, if you have check writing will not have to have Green So don't let that be a deterrent. You're thinking, I don't want people to know I have this trust. You can tell the institution to read, you know what will So these statements will but the checks can be something different. So if you've already set up a trust and you have multiple accounts and you're wondering, hey, are my accounts in the name of my trust? Go look at your trust Log in online. See when you log in online if it doesn't read the name of yet transferred that Okay, so what I'd also when I talked about those Wyoming LLCs or the real estate, business interest in. So let's say here's a Red of property that's owned by a Wyoming LLC and maybe I have another that holds my investment It's all inside of there. And currently I own these two LLCs and I've set up a living trust here. And you've watched this and you're like, okay, so I need to deed my property into the And I also need to transfer my interest and I need to open up a new account. I've seen this happen before. People get confused on this subject. I am breaking down assets that So this is what we're referring to here, transferring assets that Now if you look here, my name does not appear It's in the name of the LLC. Now, do I own this red box? No, I do not, I don't own the red box LLC. So what that means is I don't because I don't own it and I don't need to transfer the red box because I don't own that either. The property is owned by the red box. The red box is owned by the blue box, and I own the blue box. So the only assignment is this. And by moving that blue box into this living trust down here, I'm transferring everything right here. The same thing works with You don't need to change if they're already in All you have to do is move the LLC. And this is why I'm a strong proponent of using business entities to hold assets because by placing the assets once they're set up, you And with it goes all those of there, you don't need to keep changing and opening up new accounts and moving assets back and forth. Okay, so the last point has to do with personal effects, right? So your jewelry, things like that. Maybe your guns, you want to to get those into the living trust. You've got a nice sofa, that your kids look at and they say, I really want to have that dad. Whatever it is that you have from a personal effect standpoint means there is no title to these assets. Okay? So how do you determine It's by physical possession. So when it comes to personal effects, what we want to do here is to move these personal effects We'll do a personal personal property memorandum, and the personal property memorandum, it lists generically out all any type of personal clothing, all these personal effects. By signing this memorandum, to transfer the ownership So you should have something like that. Some people will talk about a Schedule A where their living trust and they'll list out all You don't have to do that. That is time consuming and and list all these things out. You probably don't even I mean, I'm thinking about this right now. How many skill saws do I I can think of three, but I may have four. So if I don't list all of and they don't reside in my living trust, that's just ridiculous. So by just doing a personal that's simple, transfers all to do the Schedule A that you'll see in more of the antiquated approaches to putting together a living trust, listing these things out. It's more of an idea just to let people know what you have. That's why people use But anyways, that's it. Living trust, land trust, it doesn't have to be more complicated than that. I've hit the four main to get into the trust. If you're at that point right now and you're wondering, hey, Give us a call. In the show notes below we have a link to a free strategy session. Click on that link. It'll set up a strategy session with one of our advisors and we'll walk through it. Either setting up a living and explain to you if you do have one, how we can help you your assets into your trust. Guys, if you like the video, and I wish you the very