Basics of deliverance, In this session we are going to begin by answering on of the in this all theme. One that many people How do demons come in? How do they gain entry to My answers that I'm going to offer and I'm not by any means suggesting But I will list seven different ways in which they may be able to come in. The first one is what I call occult background. In other words, there has been And when you talk about the occult you realize that you're dealing with There has been a breaking which are the basic commandments: Thou shalt have no other god beside me. Thou shalt not make All forms of idolatry And in connection with those that He would visit the sins of the I don't believe it applies so much but it's given in the context And so if your father, your grandfather, or some other corresponding relative or a false religion, or idolatry... then there is an opening You might say, That's not fair! the devil isn't fair. is no one is condemning you Condemnation will only come That's where condemnation comes. The second way is through personal occult involvement. And I think probably we'd better There is a saying in English, I don't He who sups with the devil must I just want to tell you there is long enough to make it You give him your little finger There is just no way that it is I'm going to read Deuteronomy 18, verses 10-12: There shall anyone who makes his son or his That is, offering your children by putting them in an oven. Now I that follow by God are classified in offered as living sacrifices There shall not be found among or his daughter pass through the fire, or a soothsayer that's a fortuneteller, or a sorcerer, or one who conjures or a spiritist, That's a pretty comprehensive list. I think For all who do these things are So many Christians and then think there's no harm in it. under the law of Moses you would have been put to death. That's God's estimate The third is what I call Things that happen while you And many people have an evil spirit The commonest single A mother resents the baby Maybe she wasn't married and Or maybe she's not getting on It's a burden in the family. makes it difficult for them But whatever, she just resents that and that little person in the womb It's not just a fetus. It's a person. And it comes out with a spirit Or a woman is pregnant, may a moment of fear. She yields to the has two options: It can stay in the It may find it more convenient to stay So when the infant is born, Let me show you a Scripture in 1 Peter chapter 3 I just want to bring out Telling wives that the pattern for them to Abraham, and I'm not laboring 1 Peter 3:6: As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling if you do good and it doesn't end there To be a daughter of Abraham the sudden shock of fear. that women are more liable to And again, I've dealt with many cases because of some shock while they were still Another interesting thing is: I noticed or let me say much more engaged that there were people in a certain many of whom seemed to And I began to think, Maybe they And then I began to say: And I discovered they were born And I reasoned out the mother and not enough money and And she may be a good woman but of that next child, and it is born We don't have time to dwell But let me say, if you go to a to find out what'll happen you have started that baby off before it even comes out of the womb. Number four, soulish domination. There's a difference between the spirit But there are many people who control by what I call 'soul thoughts, ' The most common example in is a mother dominating her There used to be a best selling book How to be a Good Jewish Mother. And one of the lessons was: How in Public Using Well, when you know I mean, they are the perfect You know about the lady in the Is there a doctor in the house? And she said: Boy, do I But it goes a lot beyond that. I have bank presidents and people in emotional maturity because they still were tied The spiritual umbilical cord Their methods of I think of a mother who dominated things went wrong she got migraines. don't talk, don't make a noise, She kept them from doing anything she didn't want them to do There are two dirty words in this Wherever you meet them, All right, number five. If you want me to help you, The fact is your mother is a witch. but she's a witch. I've had You're just not free to go back You'll have to stay away, because to stay free from that dominating, Number five. Pressures in early childhood. I have discovered that a child's are not strong enough to keep Now it says in James 3:16 something James chapter 3 verse 16: For where envy and self-seeking exist, So where there's an atmosphere between the parents, it generates will be automatically I would say more than are incapable of keeping them out. My observation is that eighty have started in a person's life And the parents are responsible for Number six, moment It can be emotional weakness, A woman is standing on a street corner takes place in front of her eyes. Or a woman has only one child; A boy at the age of five, he died. and stays in it for years. She has opened up to the spirit of Or a woman is expecting and at the last moment and she yields to and goes through life I was teaching once in a certain who was Pentecostal and very And I happened to name And I watched her face. Her whole personality changed until she was delivered from If you build your hopes on something you're probably exposed to an evil force. Now, another kind of weakness Let me give you this example. as being produced Some years ago, my first wife who came to us. She'd heard my tapes. She was a confirmed diagnosed but she believed that it was an evil So Lydia and I prayed for her But then the Lord seemed to say So I said to the girl: Did it start with a physical injury? by a baseball and after that I said: The physical injury was purely to a spirit of epilepsy. Understand. The place of weakness I said: I believe the spirit has gone So Lydia and I put hands on her and I was in contact with her She took no more medication, But I give that simply as an example And the last one is sinful acts or habits. If you persist in a certain sinful habit you can be sure that sooner An example of a sinful act: who had gone to see She knew she shouldn't go. She went and something entered her. She had to come, confess as a sin that was forbidden, Or a person may go and some kind of sex demon But you won't get delivered that opened the way for the demon. Now we come to what is How to be delivered. This is what all of us need to know. And I'm going to give you I don't say you have to follow that these are the things Number one, be humble. OK? Now you'll see why I say that Be honest. Understand it takes I tell people: Don't call your problem call it what it really is. Call a spade a spade If it's lust, call it lust. I say to women, call it by the same and you've got the right name. You won't face the truth And remember, the Bible always puts It always says 'humble yourself.' Don't pray to God to make you Then you'll have to be humble. Like this, you see. there may come a moment where you Your dignity and your deliverance. than deliverance, you know what I always think of this doctor's wife She was a kind of Southern style lady. and she came up and said, Mr. Prince, if I'm to be delivered I may scream. She said: I was brought up that Suppose you were in a river drowning for the third time and you thought who could rescue you. Well see, that's an option. or you can be a little My advice to people is let your And when you've been delivered You won't have this thing inside But I really say humility is the key. The next is: I will not put &quot;your&quot;, Because He is the high When we confess right But if we don't make we don't get Him on the scene. Number four, confess any known sin. All right, I'll write ditto there: And I want to put, but I By yourself or your ancestors. In some cases, you have to identify and say: It's my problem. I confess it. Even though it was your grandmother Number five, repent of all sins. Without repentance, you remember Without repentance And I'll put here Proverbs 28:13... which says: He that covered his sins shall and forsake them shall have mercy. Do you want mercy? You got to do That's old-fashioned but A lot of people have the attitude: God will never know about it. That's a mistake, God knows already. He's not asking you to confess He's asking you to confess in order And let me tell you some other You can tell Him the worst about and He still loves you. But if you hold Alright. Number six. Break with occult curses which we're going to deal tonight. And secret societies. Especially Free Masonry. That is a source of the most And it goes from generation to crippling, all sorts of problems. Really, that's part of repentance, Number seven, forgive others. All of them, everybody. Don Basham and I had a friend years He needed deliverance the whole IRS. That was his problem. None of you have that problem, I'm When you stand praying, forgive if That leaves out nothing and nobody. Don't wait till they say: I really am sorry for what I did. You but for your sake. I tell people: Forgiving or sentimental, it is really, simply, That's all it is. And number eight. One beautiful brief word. Expel. We'll come to that a little later, but You've got to take action. The simplest action to take In both Hebrew and Greek, the word I remember a little boy, or asked me to pray for her What's his problem? What kind of allergies? What's he allergic to? I'm going to deal with it She said fine. I talked to him in child language, like a breath, inside you. I'm going in the name of Jesus. So when I say, In the name He was like a soldier, prayed and he went... That was all. So I thought, Did it work or didn't it? But three days later the lady came What is your problem? Tell me first what happened to your son. went to the refrigerator, opened it and nothing did him any harm! See how simple? Except you become like a little child All right. Now that's how to get them out. That's the most important What matters is to know Now we're going on why some people are not delivered. This is mainly for those who Why some are not delivered. Basically its for not Listen, deliverance is not so much it's a test of whether the people Don't focus on yourself. to meet the conditions. You may feel yourself a little midget but you're representing Number one, lack of repentance. There's no guarantee to anybody Number two, lack of... desperation. I say deliverance is for the desperate. When you come back and are Lack of desperation. You'll find that particularly in people They encourage you to kind And many times you've got I want to say again, Christ has given but not over the human will. The person has to will for himself. Number three, wrong motives. Alright? The Scripture 4... and verse 3, which says: You ask and you receive that you may spend it on your lusts. We are not delivered A lot of people would like We're delivered in People who come merely do not qualify for deliverance. Number four. You better go down this list and check Self-centeredness. Alright? Desire for attention. Some people they wouldn't be the center You find some of the chronic never want to get delivered because This is the only time they One thing you'll notice about is in some way or other Self-centeredness is Sometimes you just have You can do it for yourself for yourself, nobody else Number five. Failure to break with the occult, etc. And that includes OK? Such as little Buddhas, or charms or horseshoes. Anything that savors Moses told Israel, If you bring an you become accursed like the thing. through their homes I make it a principle, I don't want that dishonors Jesus Christ One of the big steps in my life was four beautiful tapestry Chinese dragons. with five claws, not four. And they were beautiful. And they but the more I thought about it... The dragon really is a picture of Satan. I cannot afford to advertise him So I got rid of them without a conscious effort on my part, from the day I did that. I was not planning it, I wasn't in need. I didn't have any such motivation I prospered in a totally new measure Number six. Failure to sever... evil, soulish relationships. Sometimes you have If they're evil, if they're binding, I don't know what word, A kind of sloppy sentimentality Number seven, under a curse. We're going to deal with that, so But some people are under a curse till the curse is broken. Number eight. I'm running out of space. Failure to confess a specific sin such as the one obvious example is abortion. Anyone who has procured in God's sight, is guilty of murder. And that has to be confessed Now this isn't my decision; I'm just interpreting them. you could get the demon up as far as Stop and check. I remember a girl of I said: There's something before this will come out. she had an abortion; The moment she confessed, It was so sweet to see the mother and receive one another. But that, in my opinion, Number nine. I have to go if that's alright by all of you. I wipe out the first three which is This is a controversial one: by - guess what? What's the separating Baptism, that's right. Water baptism. Alright. Remember, Israel were delivered But they were separated from Egypt The water prevented They could follow as far as the water. People that are not willing do not qualify to stay free. I'm not dealing with this I'm simply stating that's the way it is. But I'm not going to be Ten. Now this is a very complicated one. Part of a larger battle... I think I will fit all... Requiring... corporate action. OK? Some people are what I call And he will not let them go, not but because of what they stand for. I don't have time to go into this. for whom the whole body An example. There was a young man You know, it's incurable; He was part of a fellowship which, he did fine, he wasn't sick. If anything went wrong spiritually he began to get sick. And ultimately split it open and destroyed it, You understand? His physical condition of the spiritual condition There are people like that. One last topic. If I could get the top part wiped off. How to keep your deliverance. I usually don't have time to teach on this. of six cassettes called which are available to all of you. Seven Ways to Keep Your Deliverance. Number one, make Jesus Lord. OK? In the end of a deliverance service I'll Don't you go out of this auditorium until you've made Jesus Remember what Jesus said When the unclean spirit He walks through dry places I will return to my house. The person he occupied. And when Empty, swept and set in order. What's the problem? No problem with having and with having the house set in order. Empty. Unoccupied, no one else Only one person is strong You know who that is? Jesus. But any area where he Have you ever driven through in the evening looking for You're looking for one word in red And when you see that, you know any area of your personality to the Lordship of Jesus has got And the enemy knows he's welcome. he's liable to bring with him Number two. I'm going to just put briefly, The Scripture says God has given the spirit of heaviness, is that right? you are bothering the devil Years back before of deliverance, I was just pasturing an in London. who had escaped from Russia, in the Spirit. My first wife and they really believed They were not reticent. praise the Lord much louder than And so there we were and there was a ring at the bell there was one of my leading her husband by the hand. And she said, This is my husband, he has a demon. Well that because I didn't know what to do about so I took the couple up where we were You know, that's a safe coverall. Sometimes it doesn't produce any So we went on praying were praising the Lord unashamed. So this man sidled up to me and he I didn't premeditate my answer. Listen, the one who doesn't because we're praising Jesus. If you go now, the devil will go with you. He said, I'll stay. Ten minutes later he came up to me and said, It's just left. I felt it leave my throat. Well that how much the devil If you put on the garment of praise, because you embarrass him Number three, put on That's not an option. Ephesians 6:14-17 and it starts with 12, that's right. Now that's all listed for you, Number four, live by God's Word. Alright. Matthew 4:4 says what? Man shall not live by bread alone, out of the mouth of the Lord. Most dangerous. and every time you get a bad mood; There's a little list of three F's: Fact. Faith. Feelings. Now you have to keep them in that Faith believes the facts. But if you reverse the order you've lost your anchor. You're like Number five. Submit to God and what else? Resist the devil, that's right. I'll put Which is James 4:7. Notice which comes first, If you've submitted to God what does the Bible say will happen? Do you believe that? But a lot of Christians are They're submitting to the devil and All right. Number six, number 6. I'll put right fellowship, It matters what kind 1 John 1:7. If we walk in the light as he is We have fellowship. If you're out of fellowship, You're not protected by the blood. And you're going to have some kind With the godly or the ungodly? with the unfruitful works of darkness. The fellowship is an acid test of Number seven, I don't know how many Come under discipline. You cannot be a real Christian Self-discipline, family discipline, school discipline, church discipline, But the one who refuses is a rebel. And you know what First Samuel 15:23, The moment you become rebellious you Discipline. Did you get that? For many people today it's a dirty word. Most Christians indulge their moods You are not free to do that. as it is to indulge your sexual impulses. Number eight, this is the last one. Make Jesus central. Alright. You notice it begins And I'm going to put a Scripture there, 31 and 32. Which says, Jesus says: Now is the judgment of this world, and And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, Notice the order. When Satan is Lift up Jesus. That's right. The driving out of Satan It's very important you fill it with Do not focus on demons. Don't give the devil too much publicity, Demons are real like germs We have to acknowledge them; But a healthy person doesn't go around Health, in a certain sense, Don't see a demon under And if you're from some old-line church don't go back, go up to your pastor between his eyes and say, It may be true but it's not Now we have done marvelously and I want to end on a very This is optional, I want you to But if there are those of you here who feel that somehow on or maybe previous experience you have a problem? A demonic problem. in which Jesus is not in control You may be in control of ninety percent It may be your temper, it may be it may be your relationships There is an area I want to help you. I've helped, hundreds of thousands of people. What I'm going to offer to do for you, that you want help here, in a few moments You'll not be praying to me, Remember, there's only one deliverer. If you want deliverance, you There's no alternative. Jesus said, I will in no wise cast out. Now this is a method that I have In Wellington, Old Town Hall, just we had at least two thousand people. And it worked for two thousand, I have never seen so many people So what I am going to offer to do, I'm going to lead you in a prayer in to humble yourself, to come to Jesus and to affirm I'll put in your mouth the words. and every kind of contact You'll forgive every other person who You'll release yourself from and you'll have to do that in faith And then you'll present yourself to And when you've said the prayer the last thing you say is Amen, okay? And when you've said amen, It's very religious to pray. Sounds good, but as you're keeping the demons inside. Don't speak in tongues. but it has the same effect, It's like when the ambulance car with its sirens blaring and its lights to the side and lets it go past. Make way for them. Now I said, Faith without works is So don't stand there passive waiting for something to happen. Begin to breathe out. Expel. And you'll find if you have a problem, it will be more than mere human That's what you're after. Now when that You might not act in a very religious and religious, you'll lose It's your option. I suggest I've told people, the devil is no and he has to be kicked out. Don't spare him. Hate him. Listen, It's a sin not to hate the devil. To Those of you who want to say this Right now. We don't have more Now we are praying to Jesus, I would like you to say these words; and what I have taught. Lord Jesus Christ... I believe that you are the Son of God and the only way to God. That You died on the cross for my sins, I come to You now for mercy and for forgiveness. and receive me as Your child. I receive myself as a child of God. And now Lord, You know the The demonic influences that torment me. Lord, I want to meet Your conditions and receive Your deliverance. First of all, who ever harmed me or wronged me. I forgive them all now. Pause for a moment and quietly We're going on. Lord, I have laid down all bitterness... all resentment, all hatred... and all rebellion. And I believe You've forgiven me. I also renounce with occult powers, with anything in Satan's territory. I repent of being on that territory... and I turn my back on it now. Also Lord, if there's I thank You that on the cross... You were made a curse... that I might be and receive the blessing. And I claim that now. Release from the curse And now Lord, I want to come against... any evil spirit in me... that occupies any I want to tell You I hate them. They are my enemies. I will not compromise with them. They will have no more place in me. I turn against them now... and in the authority I command them to leave me. I expel them right now Amen. No more praying. I'll do the final Begin to expel right now in faith. Now Lord, as your servant and of the local leadership I take dominion that has been renounced and I Release these people in the mighty, all-prevailing I affirm that Jesus Christ That He has defeated Satan. That He That all authority has been given Satan, you are subject to us through the You have to go from these people. The Bible says you must leave, In the name of Jesus. Amen. Now just get a full deliverance. Once the anointing is here and it's much more difficult That's right, Don't hold onto your dignity, That's right. Thank You, Lord. Thank You, Lord Jesus. Praise Your name, Lord.