Today I'm gonna show you how I took my this is our third episode of I cooked a toaster oven and every single meat I to say that this is mouth-watering is right into a smoker. And to say that unfair. I mean take a look at that it is really want to know is to find out which goal is to give every meat a hundred them come out perfect. This is I cook So let's do it! Now we're gonna start off with a will tell you the ribeye is one of the one is one and a half inches thick and you're able to tell that because of this well marbled steak. I know for a fact my Fahrenheit. And to me the best thing able to form a crust you must avoid that and also season your steak all the dry brine, and that is exactly what I'm with salt and putting on my refrigerator things and I'm hoping that this method after adding the salt all the way it on a cooling rack so that he can rest very next day this is what it looks like. dry brine work perfectly and that is thing to do is to add whatever other always recommend is freshly ground black the perfect way to season a steak. But really enjoy and that is smoke and there air fryer. So to compensate that and add smoked paprika and onion powder, that my airfryer to the highest setting which time I gave it at 8 minutes. I threw my thing. As it was cooking I decided to And I started off with room-temperature little bit of shallots. Now all there's left to do is to mix it well in your compound butter is done! And by that time my steak internal temperature of 135 degrees what I was left with. I mean you can and that is a crust. I really wish I go to town like there's no tomorrow on this is an airfryer episode, let's not coming out of the steak is a wonderful as you can see here the edge of the cap it has a nice crust. As my steak was You want to make sure you spread it all the butter do its thing. Once it was carve. And I started by removing the cap check that out! I mean it does have an perfection. What do you think? If you because I made a poll on my Instagram perfectly. And as you can see one thing I Regardless if you like the grey band or as the cap goes this is what it looks As expected the edges are completely little bit of pink in there which I do bite this is what it looks like and And I mean let me tell you something steak because of all the spices. It's great. Can it taste better? Sure it can see, well let's get back to normal all seriousness if you are in a hurry forget about it this is not bad. I mean especially if you only have an airfryer this. Moving on to the next one is gonna one is gonna be real good. If you are basically a two inches thick pork chop It is completely frenched which means to thing that this cut does is make an seasoning I like to put it on a steak seasoning that just falls off. coarse salt, followed by black pepper, powder and to finish it off and give a left to do is to rub it well and make you can see it by the time I was done I ensure that my fat will render and get The only thing you want to avoid is to since we had a problem with the crust I is a cast iron plate that I normally use we all know it cast iron really holds and set it for 400 degrees Fahrenheit preheat and get as hot as possible. My crust once it was preheated I took it is gonna work. Fahrenheit and 12 minutes. Threw the was cooking I decided to make a sweet this one is so good that it can go along melting 1 tablespoon of butter throw in cook. You don't want to cook it all the some aromatics throw in 1 tablespoon of fish sauce and 4 tablespoon of honey. Mix medium-low heat. You're basically trying possible. This allows your sauce to flavor. Keep in mind that if it gets too more water. But once you're happy with you can see it's almost like caramel and and seafood. And once the sauce was done an internal temperature of 145 degrees that looks pretty good! And this is without the sauce first. And as I took this is what it looks like. If that's not is. Exactly the way I like it! is phenomenal! I'll let you hear the that's amazing that is what an airfryer I get a little carried away because I'll Juicy to the max and absolutely give it a try. And as I threw in my sauce amazing? the sauce, oh. I mean this sauce is so I'm telling you be careful with the recommend you doing on this video is to tomahawk on an air fryer was absolutely always be doing moving forward. If juicy cheeseburger and making it on the mean I've made some incredible burgers was absolutely fantastic, and if there's is to cook a cheeseburger on the these are brioche buns and I think it's need a recipe make sure you check out Guga's buns, I've already made a video on it and they thing we got to do when making good threw them in the air fryer at 400 once I took it out yes that's what I'm single edge is toasted to perfection. Now own beef that allows me to cook my you are buying your own ground beef you through. Usually I just smash them gonna be using the air fryer I gotta get anything you like. I like my burgers exactly what I did right here. Even mind that you will shrink. To season it I and pepper nothing else. Threw them in season both sides. Set my airfryer to 400 pushed in the burger patties and let it an easy and simple sauce and I started part mustard and as much sweet relish as is done! This is an easy simple sauce once five minutes was up I pull they're almost fully cooked. Threw in melt. After exactly one minute it was followed by the second one and of course the bun. I would say it's not normally fantastic. It seems like the cheese is go in for the cross-section. As I cut all honesty this is not what I'm used to I did I mean it's a burger I would say and if you're in a hurry and you wanna tell you one thing you did not blow my I would love to know your opinion on sure to leave the comments down below. this. Now of course we're gonna try some as everyone says tuna is the king of all two beautiful steaks. To be specific we them is just fantastic. Whenever you're like that. Now since I have two steaks I way we can find out which way is best to first one I started by throwing a little plate and I definitely recommend roasted that air fryer does not get that hot. and started with a little bit of salt, You want to let the salt sit for at you allow the moisture to escape making exactly what we need to do this step You gotta try your best to make sure that it's almost impossible. After I added a little bit of oil and thought is that the oil will heat up it to 400 degrees Fahrenheit to cook for tuna I made a very simple dipping sauce, followed by ponzu sauce, cherry flakes also known as Gochugaru which is a And that is your dipping sauce. As I was Here's the result I got for cooking it sesame seeds got a little bit more raw Center. But as I took my first slice raw but some of them were just like but I was hoping for less. I mean by no remember this was done in an air fryer it in and do nothing. But hey what really it a try without the sauce first just to tell a little bit of the edges that are uh-huh not bad it is good I mean I wish it's still good it's something that I made it way too easy to do. I do have a lot better because as you know the edges make it nice and moist. And as I took my that an improvement of 200% you dipping sauce. Now remember we had two. So different and I'm gonna make it blackend all seasoning which is salt, followed by super easy to do we start with black followed by garlic powder, smoked paprika, As you can see it looks fantastic on method I threw it in set my air fryer to eight minutes and once the time had does not look bad. It looks like a nice never had tuna there's a reason why they swordfish it does resemble a steak. And like it was cooked just right. There's a which is totally okay with me. But the and as I took my first bite it's alright Guga at this one or the previous one? this one you might have never heard of but trust me it is not. It is something a try and be open definitely not gonna try it. It's what's about actual bread we're talking about bread let me explain; it's an organ meat, organ meat for thymus gland and pancreas. and I know it doesn't look appetizing it a try you might like it. The first thing I like to do is to brine inside. And to do that it's pretty bit of water and salt. Whisk it well Throw in your sweetbreads and let it The very next day take it out and let it much as possible because it's quite comes with a silver skin, and as you know silver skin is tough and it's gotta go. But the great thing about is that if you do. As you can see by the time I was and there is a very good amount of it. manageable pieces. You don't want to cook what makes it taste really good. So for four pieces. For the seasoning remember in with garlic powder, followed by black sure you season all sides including the them and for that I threw them inside of 400 degrees Fahrenheit for 10 minutes, was happening I made a very simple bit of garlic paste and melted butter. Once the 10 minutes was up this is what not done yet. To make sure we get nice as always whenever you're basting it throw in as much as you can because as better. them back into the air fryer at 400 minutes and this is what I was left with. know some of you might not want to try do. Even though it's not very popular and what something is gonna taste if you definitely worth it. As I took my first it smells incredible. And as I take my yes exactly what I was looking for. It's it's juicy the crispy our outer edge is the taste but it is something I enjoy Spanish. If you've never had it I and the airfryer did an awesome job on Denver steak. And yes as you can see it with this cut this is what it looks like. that it's not popular, that's because it people call it under blade steak I've of what it is that it's called I can since it comes from the chuck the medium-rare. can take higher temperature, so for this Before cooking it as you already know we that I get a perfect crust, and as you adding salt the next thing you want to it can dry brine on your refrigerator it looks like. As you already know the only a great crust but it's also left to do is to add your favorite followed by freshly ground black pepper. including the edges. And I really like add them in hear that. Yes that's exactly seeking for a great crust I set it to minutes, pushed it inside and I was job. As it was cooking and I made a very with 2 tbsp of melted butter and your basting butter is ready. By this removed them check that out it! time for the basting butter. I mean to be crust I've ever seen in my life, But as I pick it up and turned it to the it's not coming through the camera a Using a cast iron give you a better crust. open and as I took my first slice that This was cooked to an internal and let's not forget that I gave it a an air fryer I am pretty happy with that the taste everything else is secondary. took my first bite, Wow. does not taste like a ribeye or a New other steak that I ever tasted before steak. It has a much more pronounced beef If you've never had a Denver steak that you will enjoy. Moving on to the squab. If you are unfamiliar with this literally have no idea what it was. Since we're gonna be experiencing this Google and searching it up turns out it fancy pigeon. I mean as you can see on same time I'm wondering what is it gonna comes with the inners. We have the heart edible, we're definitely gonna be research I've done USDA recommends temperature of 180 degrees Fahrenheit, but everywhere else says that this one should be cooked to medium-rare because occasion bird. oil to make sure my seasoning will stick. ground black pepper, garlic powder, onion season every single edge. For additional going with thyme and rosemary. And it's fill up the cavity. It just looks like a be a tasty one. But the organs I started followed by some olive oil and salt. Mix all there's left to do is to throw in the them is coated because of course the Now there's left to do is to add to my that I set the airfryer to 400 degrees five minutes shut it close and let five minutes were up we got some me. There are two types of people in the hate it, and I love it because if this shape. But the important thing is how is bite it is exactly like a chicken heart, It's awesome! enjoy this. There is zero difference in which I think it's the kidneys took a Yep just as expected is exactly chicken to me. But hey we still have the Hopefully medium rare squab it's funny medium-rare the skin does not get crispy. on the cast-iron pan before putting it episode we don't have the cast iron the legs and as you can see oh yeah too medium rare. I mean it's my first good right. Then of course I jumped into fact. And as I start slicing the brass Oh a little bit too rare for me. In case you temperature of 135 degrees Fahrenheit. and that is to give it a try and give first bite it is what can I say just tastes quite gamy and by no means taste. That was the breast of course I honestly everything looks like dark meat thigh it tastes exactly the same. Quite it that much. And I'll tell you one thing the squab so I thought maybe if I cook everything back into the airfryer. cooked that out. Everything is fully cooked I everywhere I read this is exactly what important thing is the bite on the very it's terrible! Do not overcook your Don't do it. To finish it off squab is That is all the meat I currently have in Anyway guys I hope you enjoyed this give it a thumbs up. If you're not a future videos. Remember if you are is always on the description down below. see you guys on the next one. Stay safe See you guys in the next one take care