I had the pleasure of interviewing cosmologist kinship because we're both youtubers who admire big questions about life and the mysteries of the on this subject. He's a distinguished professor of He's the author of two books, and host of a popular youtube channel at the link in the description. very prominent scientists. So i think you're really his books and podcasts as well. Now, having done or the CMB, i was really interested in talking more specifically, the polarization of what this is in this interview, but i think by studying this aspect of the cmb, we may be able big bang. This could inform us about the earliest some deep mysteries. Now stay tuned to the end make to Arvin Ash viewers. I have to admit an the amateur mistake of not recording my own camera. brian's dialogue is much more interesting I study the cosmic microwave background left over from the big bang. And it traces the and perhaps the origin of the universe could be remember those old-fashioned films you used to take to the to the drugstore and you'd have them exposed and and so forth. So the the CMB is to expose waves of gravity if indeed the universe you've talked about in the channel many times. So it's kind of unique in that way, and the most interesting thing you can study, but Yeah, so polarization is the unique interaction determine either the properties of the light, or used polarized sunglasses, you know that they states of light. Ao light is a transverse wave. It in a direction from the source to the observer. some of the imprint of the light source either what it's made of, or how its dynamics are background we have this early universe as a fusion there were waves of gravity in it, the photons the matter and bounce around, they will inherit in which the matter is contained. Ao it's allows us to see the imprint of the, And what's so exciting is we know since 2015 LIGO measures objects at billions of light years measure 13 billion years, 13.8 billion years ago, So it's a lot more challenging to do, and as far as that's available in the foreseeable using this CMB itself. And the waves of gravity are no other models that predict, robustly early universe, in other words, a cosmological those waves, those are astrophysical sources. Those big bang, or from the origin of the universe. beautiful laboratories for learning about those waves of gravity as our tool. There will be reveals the presence of gravitational waves. That So inflation has a lot of circumstantial evidence some of the most, kind of baffling aspects for inflation that are supportive of it. It certain tests already. It hasn't. For example, meaning that any three points in the that comprise a triangle, the interior to 180 degrees, just like they did for Euclid So dark matter really can fall into two of matter completely unlike the baryonic matter we're made up of. It could also be Those are the two main classifications of what of one form of dark matter. I have a video on my been detected, because there is a form of matter and doesn't interact with matter, and And those are called neutrinos. There's actually right now. And the neutrinos have really, some of all the elementary particles. They don't flavors, from one kind to another kind. As they media. They're participating in radioactive and they have very very very very very tiny masses. to get to below what's called one electron volt conversant with it, i think because you always talk itself has an a mass according to E = m c^2 , a 511,000 electron volts. The neutrino mass measured by the Katrin experiment in It can't be any bigger than that or they would have, from neutrino oscillation experiments, we smaller than a certain mass limit. Well that mass the electron, which is the lightest of the common of times heavier than these neutrinos, and yet we dark matter of a material kind. Turns out that's of dark matter there is. We don't know what it is, if it's in the form of these types of particles. So measurements now to look for what are called Now, we've ruled out in the last two decades, being a type of dark matter that account for dark matter than ordinary matter like protons It's the only particle you can eat! Those dark matter. And then dark matter and matter are which we know absolutely nothing about. So there background experiment the Simons observatory that to get their masses cosmologically. And we're which are kind of like heavy photons, but so i would say those are conjectured Frank Wilczek has made a lot of good were the original, two kind of founders And then on the changing gravity, there's Newtonian Dynamics, which says that in galactic to modify those, and the laws of relativity that And we just don't know right now. There's a lot believe that MOND is incorrect, because it can't galaxies behind my shoulder over there, the two galaxies called the bullet cluster - it can't But then other supporters of MOND will point the high velocities that these two galaxies are question. And i think the most dangerous words It's it's really hard to say. I mean, actually a good thing, because that means that my team and i can look for to explore this. So matter particles, but we could also potentially detect violations of relativity as well. And actually, you know, no one would be happier Relativity is wrong on cluster scales, or you know, intergalactic scales, because that is just incredibly fascinating. And all of Relativity or what's called Lorentz invariants. that could be had. And again, my job like where do i get enjoyment? It's from, it's from like making or getting a number, a data point that's the result of years perhaps of building hardware and blood, and then getting this number and then saying well, the universe, and tells us how we were wrong, and Either one would be really interesting - is like maybe there's a dark periodic table, non-existent - Supersymmetry Maybe? Maybe yeah, it could modification that Einstein was wrong, yet again! blunders in his life. And and again he ended my book! but uh you know he could be Yeah, I'm kind of a contrarian about it. I don't an interview with Lee Cronin. I've done interviews of aliens. I believe right now if you just the capacity for life is overwhelmingly this of Antarctica where i've been twice. Antarctica is in terms of total land mass, it's even larger in know, thousands of years, discovered it. There's like depends on how much available face space there fauna and stuff, but it doesn't it really doesn't not based on what i believe, like i have a video on I have evidence for gravity. You don't need evidence for life in the universe. And we actually that meteorites travel through our our solar on mars, even though there's meteorites on mars It's very difficult. I'm not arguing, you know, god it is very low. Certainly for technological life. the 10 different things that needed to happen to have this conversation. The universe has to have to go from hydrogen and carbon and silicon, Then you have to survive this late heavy have to have dinosaurs that are roaming around. have to have enough, you know, biotic matter transistors that make the computer that you and no life. I'm just saying there's no evidence for gonna rapidly find evidence for life. In other only - remember what's being claimed is that we're others you know. So again i skipped ahead to have to happen, even for for slime mold. You know, if the different hurdles that that planet let's say there's ten of them. and let's say each Ao you know, that means you have a one in 10 to the planet. That's about 10 billion to one! you need to have RNA. maybe do you need DNA first? How does all this stuff come together? How do you have enough nutrients? How does it to survive to be there. And again as i said - I a press conference held on the White House lawn. is written by Carl Sagan, and one of my guests Ann Druyan, his widow. And that's a real video. President Bill Clinton is saying we've discovered like that was peer-reviewed, accepted had to do shelf, that originated from Mars. And there was a respiration. Arvin do you know that that's never never been retracted. It's never been confirmed. And last 30 years almost, that was never confirmed. And thing in human history. If it were true, in other we'll find life next week, next month, next you know, yes the average human being, they don't the conditions in which life And some of them were done by people that and their famous chemistry early earth chemistry that front, and there's a lot of kind of talk about types of life, and even people like, you know, Max Tegmark and others talking about digital life. Like we're not even going to have - forget about like slime is the preponderance of the universe, or even in a simulation. So you see the the goal posts the bedrock foundation may not be that stable. You've done some fascinating work. Your book look this video and put it up on my channel. Awesome, a pleasure. And thank you for mentoring me and i know there's many like me that really, i love your videos and you're the one that when somebody on the channel in the comments Oh really? Okay. Thank you my friend. appreciate it. Take care. Bye. Tanks Arvin. That was a big bang blast for me, and i hope for your in the United States of America - and that's you &quot;Losing the Nobel Prize&quot; - that's right cosmic space billion year old meteorite that fell in Argentina of this ginormous piece of space schmutz, and I if you join my mailing list, which