This molecule is called L-DOPA, and it is Parkinson's disease. This molecule is Parkinson's and causes a potentially deadly it turns out that it is really easy to set of these molecules at the same time, that was so hard that the person How did the first hammer get hammered in a world So now I'm gonna explain why these two are in about chirality, just skip ahead to the next these look so similar. In fact, they have the same other chemical and physical property that you can of these structures is connected to the same other the atoms of these two molecules occupy different related to each other, and they're related to each you by taking this mirror out of my microwave The real molecule you're looking at, that's that's D-DOPA. So L-DOPA and D-DOPA and the atom that's responsible for making those this one. But the thing is, these mirror and chemists call molecules that are non-super And you can see that most clearly if I try to one and rotate it behind this one. And you can hydrogen lines up with this hydrogen, and so on this carbon right here. On this one, the nitrogen the nitrogen sticks out towards me. And there is I can do in three dimensions that will turn These atoms will never overlap. And so these in of two enantiomers used to be considered a single today. For example, ibuprofen is a 50-50 mixture enantiomers takes a long time to say, so chemists that is the situation back in the 1960s when this comes out. Now, this describes a small study that and the doctors start off by giving the patients and they see an incredible response to the side-effect called granulocytopenia, which infections, some of which can be dangerous or to switch to the much harder-to-get and what they see is that the granulocytopenia is responsible for the treatment, and the D-DOPA great news. Let's just give the patients you could not make pure L-DOPA at scale. There was to get it from plants. But if you wanna treat that is not necessarily the most economically and make the racemic mixture, make a 50-50 mixture Let's take a closer look at option two. The main vanillin. And I should mention here that I am contains some protecting groups, which we don't point to this. If you take this and run it over the hydrogen will add to this double bond from the top or it can add from the bottom. and coming in from the bottom gives you the hydrogen is equally likely to come so you're equally likely to create And that means that the product of this reaction L-DOPA and D-DOPA. And that means that if then you would also have to a completely useless byproduct, and But it gets much worse. Your L-DOPA and completely intermingled in whatever giant metal separate them using traditional purification like simple chromatography, recrystallization or these two molecules is by having them interact And that is key. It has to be a single enantiomer. it with both of these molecules to form two new is that these are no longer mirror images of of different physical and chemical properties, recrystallization. And this technique, by the Now, once you do that and you have this molecule single enantiomer... Enantiomer, enant... it on YouTube as enatiomer, and that's not Once you have this molecule as a pure compound, you chose and you're left with pure L-DOPA. this ends up using tons and tons and tons and that means that your overall yield maybe less, and that is not a good yield really close attention and happen to be a if this particular alcohol would react in this did it for the purposes of demonstration. Please And this yield rule, it is not just true to the Nobel was invented, if you wanted molecule of a pure enantiomer, that meant at least, of other stuff. Now, if you could that would be a commercial hit and a chemical making an incredibly necessary drug, and it'd be a problem in chemistry. And Bill Knowles was This right here is the heart of the reaction you add this catalyst, and after a quick deprotection step, is L-DOPA. Now, and only 2.5% D-DOPA, and that is that chemists had managed to get a non-enzyme to make one enantiomer in such an incredible So now, if you wanna make a hundred tons of stuff. You just get a hundred-ish tons of your and that's it. I mean, some glassware. You need not glassware, 'cause a hundred tons is a lot. but you get the idea. Pretty soon after making single enantiomer drugs, as opposed to the the FDA published official guidance, saying enantiomers to be the same drug. And today, only So how did Bill's catalyst make L-DOPA without so here is a 3D structure of one part of the exist as two enantiomers. Here's one, and here and this one makes D-DOPA. So the reaction enantiomer in the reaction vessel. Here's the and therefore super efficient, it still relies on like the earlier technique we saw, diastereomeric a universal inviolable... Inviolable? You can't one enantiomer of a molecule, you need to already And this sets up a real chicken-and-egg it'd be like if you couldn't make a hammer make a mallet without using a sledgehammer, and if you need a hammer to make a hammer, how did hammers? Is it turtles all the way down? As at the top and work your way down. So let's do you need one enantiomer of this catalyst. you need menthol. Menthol is chiral, versions of menthol that could theoretically Nature produces just one of the eight versions of menthol and react it with this molecule, you get an 80-20 mixture. Couple more steps, and Let us descend one more turtle. To make just one need enzymes. Now, every enzyme in nature exists the place where the chemistry happens, will be a of whatever molecule it's making. But how do you have to make everything it's built out of, single enantiomers. How do you do that? Well, all to also be single enantiomers. And here, we enter and enzymes and small molecules that extends So one definition of life is the ability to kill prey, whatever. And doing things on the structures, because something's 3D structure 3D structures are so critical to life, enantioselective synthesis was, it might help stuff. I had no idea when I started writing unbroken chain of enantioselective syntheses all the way back to the very beginnings