In 2015, NASA put out a job posting looking for a The person had to be an expert in FORTRAN and two programming languages from the 40s and 50s The job was to join the very small team of people Incredibly, both voyagers still run on their which have just 70 kilobytes of memory. It might not sound like much, but it was enough and make incredible discoveries along the way. Unsurprisingly, things do go wrong Just last year, Voyager 1 started sending back garbled Telemetry data about its orientation in space On top of that, the thrusters in charge of keeping were starting to show signs of fatigue. Every time the thrusters are used, tiny This has built up over time causing blockages Voyager is already on its backup thrusters and so if these failed it would be the At a distance of 15 billion miles, but in order to slow down the buildup the small team in charge of Voyager that would be sent across our universe to fix it. There are three main computers on board Voyager. The main computer controls all of the major instruments, maintains its health and temperature and also controls the other two computers. The second computer is in so it looks for predetermined reference points and fires the thrusters to keep The third computer is in charge of and images taken by Voyager's instruments. Voyager doesn't have an operating system and any kind of programming language but this isn't the first time Voyager has been updated. At Neptune, the light was 900 times so in order to take pictures Engineers had to reprogram the camera Once it left Neptune, NASA began shutting but with just 70 KB of memory on board its computer, having lines of code for dead instruments was a waste of space. And so the Engineers completely rewrote Voyager's code and performed a software update to make sure it But how does NASA update such old To understand how difficult this is Voyager runs the latest version of NordVPN Not really, NordVPN wouldn't fit on Voyager's computers, from online threats. Whenever you are connected to Wi-Fi, especially public Wi-Fi, your data is constantly at risk from hackers. With NordVPN you can become How many times have you gone to watch only to find it's blocked in your country? of the 5,000 servers and suddenly all the content NordVPN has also launched 'Meshnet' the safest way to connect to all of your devices no matter where you are in the world. It acts like a local area network and like personal servers and share files around and can be installed on up to six devices at one for free visit nordvpn.com/primalspace. in order to do a software update on Voyager, Perhaps the coolest thing about Each computer has its own plated wire ones and zeros This memory consists Each intersection point can be thought of as a By passing a current through one of the plates If the magnetic field is in this direction, it is considered a zero. if it goes in the opposite direction, it's a one. By passing a current in the opposite direction, and flip the bit to a zero. By doing this for every point you could save these ones and zeros into the memory. This design was a great choice at the time because it meant that even if the power went out, It also meant that each bit could be updated. With just 70 kilobytes of total memory onboard Voyager the engineers have to be extremely Along with this basic machine code Voyager has its own pseudo code. that can be triggered to carry out repetitive tasks An interpreter onboard the main computer reads the ones and zeros. Once it comes across a predetermined code it initiates the pseudo code to carry out a tasks to be automated without writing out long But the problem is that humans And so a more advanced language is needed to On Earth, Voyager software was originally Assembly is a very simple language that the basic ones and zeros of machine language. Once the code is complete it gets which can be sent to Voyager using the deep space network. The data is sent to Voyager at a rate of 16 bits per second and it takes almost an entire day The computers onboard Voyager are interrupt-driven. This means that the software goes through its usual list of instructions until it gets interrupted When an update is sent to Voyager, When Voyager receives this, it tells the main computer to stop what it's doing and instead work on the update instructions. It then unloads the new code into the memory flipping all the bits to their new position. The is correct and then the main computer kicks it Over the years Voyager has received a long list of In 1995 an update was written that would basically In 2014, some 20 years after the code of hardware malfunctioned. In 2010 a single bit to a one. This caused computers to lose sync with and a half hours later than expected. A software into its correction position. It's amazing stories probes to survive almost 50 years in space. It's and hardware onboard Voyager's computers are still And now for the Primal Space giveaway. The winner of the previous giveaway is Yasmine. Congratulations! In the next video we'll be giving away this Primal is sign up at the link below, like the video and Voyager 3 if it launched today. Thank you very much for watching