For me, success is when I bring my idea to the project, to the chair or to what I'm working on as closely as I had imagined. Well, the Round is a very soft chair. I like the Round because it has a very round shape. That's why Round. It's quite a lot of work here. I've been doing this with the chairs for a total of 25 years. Yes, you really connect with the form. I build my chairs so that you can sit in them all day. (Birdsong) Well, if I had to build 100 chairs and they would all be the same, that would be death for me from the start. I'll dig a little further, okay? (birdsong) Peter Hook loves nice old wood. I work a lot with walnut, cherry, pear. But yes, I think most of what I do is with walnut. Although oak is the trend at the moment. How can it be, no, that a piece of wood is a fashion? So I think that's really insane. I'm not buying wood now because it's fashionable. Peter Hook buys the wood he wants to work with. The work begins with the tree. And now, when I buy trees, I always look for trees that are really, really big. Well, preferably now for chairs, uh, for example, I prefer to make the entire seat shape out of one panel. That also means I need really big slabs, old trees, that is. Here, for example, it is now written on the wall, almost everything that is written here is, I think, at least 100 years old. Some trees here, 120, 130 years old. I just look for interesting trees. Whenever I find interesting trees, I buy them immediately. That gives us the width... for our chair. So, I'll put this up here now. Peter chooses unsteamed walnut for the chair seat. I would take the seat out of the area down here now. Uh, I have Zwiesel up here again, that's also, uh, difficult to work on. Zwiesel practically means where the tree thus divides its branches at the top. Well, that's basically the fuselage here and the big branches that come off it. Peter practically grew up in sawdust. His father had a carpentry shop. He further developed his craft in Seattle, where he lived and worked for ten years and came to the chair. I'm going to free up the shape here, we're going to build a chair that I've built before, the Round. I'm going into the form here quite freely. I draw the lines just like that off the wrist here. And then we saw it out on the band saw. Hm. So, I've now sawed out the panel. I'll say, uh, draw an orientation line back here. Uh, where the hollow of the seat where I put it on. Or respectively where my limits are here. Um, and I'll just do it like this. I'll just do it off the top of my head now. And now from here you saw out a cavity. Um, well, the indentation for the seat plate. And now I'll start with the adze. Well, with the adze I used to hollow out my first chairs by hand, uh, for the first few years. I also think that doing it by hand gives you a better sense of shape. The adze is struck across the grain. So, one also says cross-axe to the adze. Uh, yeah, and it's pretty quick in... well, you can really move a lot of wood with it. It's an ancient instrument, almost like a hand axe. Just hold a hand ax with a handle. Or like a hatchet, mhm. It's important to have an idea, sometimes even an idea of your own. I kind of think when you work that you should, uh, build something like that or create something that's authentic. So ... If you copy something or always get inspiration from somewhere else, that 's basically , what you create is never a mirror of yourself . And I, I also believe so firmly that things of your own that you, uh, work on, that there is also a certain motivation. Well, the adzes I'm using now are all from the Northwest. So, up by Seattle, like... there's tool makers that make them. So yes, it's really sharp again, good. Peter is one with his tools. The adze literally grows into his hand. When I'm working on shapes, like on the seat, it has a recessed seat at the back. And he has... comes up a bit again. And comes back down a bit to the front. So, really, form is really everywhere. There's no beginning and no end to the form. So, the form is both in front and in the middle as well as at the deepest trough. To the back, where the struts will be later. It's all form, there are lines everywhere. There are dicks everywhere, everything is different. It's all, um, all dynamic. This is called a pattern maker, vise. And, um, it has a special feature in that it can turn in all directions. Well, I can bring it up, I can rotate it 360 degrees. I can clip that here too. And shoot here, he can do everything. It was developed in America when cars were built like templates in the 1920s and 1930s. And they were all made of wood. So, the bodies. And they needed a vice that can do everything. Which can clamp all shapes in all directions. And this is really a great tool here. Yes ... well. I'll set it up first so that I have the right light here. And then comes a tool now, that is called Scorpeisen. With the ... I'm going to first smooth out the rough, rough unevenness of the adze ... a bit. Light is always important too. It always has to be in the right place. I've got holes all over here in the table. And I can always arrange it in such a way that I also have the right shadow here on the surface. Well, that's all it really needs. Well, I can already feel it here in the wood, here's, um... it 's relatively overgrown here on the, um, in the sapwood area. The sapwood is this cellular wood. The heartwood is the darker spot here, the discoloration. That will be exciting later when we go in with the planer. And also at the very end with oil, we shall see. There will probably be such, such beautiful little ... such small waves, because the wood is so light ... Yes, it's a bit like water in here. Next thing would be if I go to the Trawescher. Trawescher is now practically my next planer here. So. That's kind of a round planer. And it can do practically everything. With that I can plane into the hollow surfaces. I can also do something now that is round. But I can also plane very straight surfaces. And because it has such a slight arc down here, um, it also breaks the wood differently. So, it's now, I only ever have small... areas, more or less. And they are practically broken out of the wood. It's easy to work with one like that. And, um, I'm going straight in here with the Trawescher. It's getting a little warm now. (unintelligible) Peter will need five days for the round. The work is fun and enjoyable for him, but it is also exhausting. Yes it is. There's always one, a right direction and a wrong direction. And with the planer I can react very quickly. Well, I'm here, I can feel it straight away, whether it's hooking up or whether it's crossing over completely cleanly. And, uh, I'll plan a little further, okay? For Peter, the sound of the plane is music that guides him. (birdsong) You really need an eye. Well, I can already see how, uh, I would like to rejuvenate the chair backwards or which curves I might have a little stronger or softer. Or like the course in front. Well, I already have the shape in my head. Well, the shape, it's developing really nicely here into this one, this nice deepening here, the hollow seat here. So now I'm almost there. So, I would now paint the underside here at the back. And then again from below first of all remove the ... bit of coarse material. Like what I did yesterday with the seat pan. Then I'll take this... seat out of here again. And ... draw me this one here ... roughly. Then I'll put it back on the floor. And rather continue with the adze. Mind and hand are fused when Peter hits the spot. Everything went really well with the adze. The wood worked well. I haven't had any outbursts like this. Uh, you're not in there either. Well, if I now work with hand tools like this ... into the material. Um, I've got adhesions in there. Accidents can also happen. After adzes, I also planed the underside here. And, um, we already had a bit of thickness there. I also got around this adhesion here easily. It kind of dissolved into nothing. Yes, now a little planing. And then... let's take a look at it all. Actually, I do the opposite of what I did on the seat. Everything is now being planed out here. On the other hand I had everything hollow. Well, and my planer does here ... everything. I think, in everything we do, that is, in crafts or manual work, it is, they say, 10,000 hours. That's the beginning. And if you have 10,000 hours, then you understand your tool, your material. You have a bit of insight. 10,000 hours, that's if you work five years, six hours a day. And if you want to be really good, you need 40,000 or 50,000 hours. I'm still learning things today. You now have practically different surfaces. Well, I have the seat here, it's basically a surface. I have an edge here and I have the bottom surface here. It's so practical now that there are three different surfaces. And my next step would now be to plan the edge a bit smooth again. Well, without skill there is no art. Well, you have to know your craft so that you can see exactly what you're doing. So to speak, it's like a musician using sheet music. You have to understand the notes in order to be able to play them. And, uh, for me the tools are like instruments. (Birdsong) Peter has his studio in pretty Weinheim on the Bergstrasse in Baden . In the oldest house in town, built in 1344. Very popular wood workshops are also held here, in which Peter conveys the fun of working with wood and the art of building chairs. The chair for me now is really a great playground. That way, where I can live my life completely with shapes. I can experiment so much here and look for new lines. And go into completely free forms, sculptural, abstract forms. I want to be artistic. So, I really want to create unique pieces. And I always want to develop individual pieces further. And new shapes and maybe new, always new angles are looking for in chairs. (birdsong) I'm sitting here in my smoker now. Um, and I've got these chairs, I'm building 17 of them. So, make it so limited. And here is the number seven and with the seven I wanted to include that in the design. That, well, kept so square, with a kink like that. And quite steep angles. And the Smoker is really a chair that hugs you from behind, how should I put it, takes you, it's like a protective ... The backrest is so wide that it's like a Protection one protects from behind and hugs, so, and absorbs. (birdsong) So, now I'm sitting in my drop series. These, these are practically really wooden armchairs. They are built lower and you sit like in an armchair. And here is my very personal here. That's an elm I bought back in San Francisco. And it's actually at my house. And then I have a very small one. That's such a cheeky little knickerbocker. I gave it a bit, a rebellious character. Someone who wants to jump away a bit, almost. So, and it's also very comfortable. Now I have a plank maple here. And for the chair I'll make a wood combination. So, once the seat here made of walnut. The undamped. And that's actually the only walnut in the chair now. I will then make the backrest out of maple. The legs are made of maple and the struts in the back are also made of maple. And, um, I'll start by dividing the backrests here. And for the backrest I have to glue the maple here. It's not big enough for me here. So he needs two plates. So. Maple is, um, very dense. Well, the surface of a maple board is very closed. Maple is really quite smooth on top. Peter planes the surfaces flat on the machine so that the panels can be perfectly connected to one another when glued. Peter's clamps are American, as are most of his tools. There are also English and Canadians. The glue brush is French. On both sides I give glue here. So that there is really no lack of glue, that it sticks. Well, they sit well. So, now we have sawed out our maple legs on the band saw. I'm going to round these with the drawknife. Rounding means: planing the edges smooth like with a diamond cut by turning the workpiece again and again until the leg is round. Easy for Peter. This is just for the rough stuff. Now I used the drawknife to... flatten or round all the edges here. After the... after the drawknife, I'll take the plane now. I'll continue with the planer. For this I have so ... Spokeshave. Well, they are all set differently: coarser, weaker. I'll take this one now. Hmm, too weak. So. So, that's a good thing for now. Uh, that was very easy to work with, the maple. And I also like this... this texture that's coming out here. From, from the spokeshave, those lines in here. And that's sometimes the case at work too, when things are going so well. then I want to keep it that way in the chair. Well, I don't want to drag anything on the chair now. I'd just cut everything and leave it planed. Leave the legs planed. And in all probability also the seat. Well, I love it when there are so many clamps on the records. And, um, well, if I do freelance work now. I sometimes have curvy things too. And since all my clamps are clamped to a workpiece. I'm stimulating that here now too. Well, practically, I've got this width from the record now and I'm really taking the width with me. And depending on what I do, I sometimes change it by five millimeters, there by a few millimeters, sometimes by a centimeter. So that every chair has its own language and is also unique. Perfectly glued. The work steps for the backrest are almost the same as for the seat: first adze, then plane. The adzes are ancient. You can see that in Salzburg, there you have all these caves. Hollowed out practically with adzes. I think the adze goes back to the Celts. So stone age. I work my chairs in such a way that there is really something sensual in the chairs... a sensual image that touches you. So now we have the legs. I also put my legs in the chair as well as everything by eye. And, uh, I just take the legs and hold them where I like the position. And then make my mark here on the seat. Well, then comes the drilling. Well, when I fit the legs, that's really first experience, with which angle I first drill the hole. And accordingly, when I drill the peg, how the peg has to sit in relation to the hole. So, with my drilling, I have to... um, that's quite a highly concentrated story. Uh, that I really drill things in there to the exact degree. So, the angles fit now. And the clearances are good, front, rear and side. When I'm off the chair in the process, um, I leave a lot open to me. Well, I mostly do seat, legs first. And it really is like painting. I'll make two cuts here now, wedge-shaped like this. Because later, when we glue, we'll drive a wedge into the leg at the top. So. And then there's, then we pick the wedges to go with the slots here. And then it's time for gluing. Hm. I like that because you can see how it's built. So that there is another element in here. And it's basically a very old wooden connection that's wedged. Because of the wedge, when later the wedge is hammered in here with a hammer , we also, uh, I create tension here in the gluing. That's also a logical wooden connection. Here's a leg, there's a slit. I've got a wedge driven in at the top. There's pressure. And that's, um, I like that. That's actually a simple, but also a very logical wooden connection, which is also very stable. Well, when you hit it, it has a tone that gets higher and higher. And that's also what you have to pay attention to, you can hear that when the tension is in your legs. In the seat, that goes: ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. Well, if that's still the case: boom, boom, boom. Then the wedge practically slides up again. That has to wait a bit now, dry off a bit. And in the meantime I can, I still have a little work to do on the backrest. closer to me Probably here. There are jobs in the trades that are difficult to transfer to written form. Well, now I can write down what I'm doing here on paper. How I hold the plane, why I now... It's all an experience and a feeling. With the material you learn. So, over many hours of work. Sort of like writing down how to tie your shoelaces. That's also a great pity in the trade, because a lot, a lot of what we have will be lost if such old masters can no longer transfer their knowledge. Because it's quite unlikely that they can write it down , yes. The small planes, they really are very comfortable in the hand. These are little one-hand planes. They are mainly used for instrument making. There are chairs that don't have a strut at the back. It's logical that if you don't have a support surface in the back, it might look interesting, but it's not comfortable. Yes, I always check that on myself. Whether the angles fit. And that's taking its back nicely here. I'm happy here with the shape now so. Unfortunately, the details are today ... so lost in our modern furniture. Well, we don't even know how things are put together anymore. Whether there's a spigot in there, whether there's a dowel in there, or ... uh, everything's practically hidden these days. Um, I collected all the cuts from my chairs for her. And basically I have a bit of DNA from all my chairs. And these little cones here that have now been cut off, I'll keep them all. Well, I can... and I'll label them all. Well, there are either the names of the chairs on them, also the year when I built them. And here we have, um, craftsmanship. And SWR. And now I would put that down here too. So, once ... SWR. HWK ... 2022. And in the box. Good. This is where I put my first rung in. That takes a bit of practice. Have you perhaps drilled a few chairs beforehand? Well, chair construction came to me ... I'm like that ... In 1997 in Seattle I came across a book like that. John Brown, &quot;Stick Chairs&quot;. And I was totally amazed by the way the man actually builds chairs with simple means. Well, it sits well. The angles are right. Angles sit well here... like that. (squeaking) Well, that's very convenient now. If you don't have the necessary experience here, it can drive you to despair. Well, the angles, that's, that's so difficult, what a difference one degree, two degrees makes here. Um, the chair slides from comfortable to uncomfortable. Hand planed, the whole chair, not sanded. Unique. So I sign all the chairs first. They all have their name and then the year of manufacture. And, um... and then they have a little button at the bottom. So, now comes the oil at the very end. And it's always such a special moment. Because on the one hand this signals the end of the project. And then with the oiling... I'll light the wood now. So now all the beauty of the wood panel comes out here, through the oil. The chair is now complete. So I'm very happy with it too. And it's really a great feeling to have created something entirely with your own hands. With good tools, with great material. And also like that when you have your ideas. Well, success for me is when I bring my idea to the project, to the chair or to what I'm working on as closely as I had imagined. And that's what really worked with the chair. And, um... and besides... it's also something that's really well built. The chair will outlive me for a long time. And many generations after me. And, it's also something great to create a work that's still here after me. So... that's a special feeling. (birdsong) A special chair. Craftsmanship at its finest. (birdsong) The Round. Did you like this &quot;Craftsmanship!&quot; favor? Then write us your opinion about the film in the comments. And don't forget to subscribe to the channel! SWR 2022