On this episode of The Deal, Sue Bird. Alright, listen to this resume. with UCONN, four WNBA Championships with the Seattle Storm. Five gold medals for the She did it all as a player. Now she's in your business as an owner. How's she doing? It sounds Not only is she but also we both started and she played obviously I played seven years. It's thinks about pivoting from to now doing some great Absolutely. She's in my business as well, in the media business. She started a company called Alex Morgan and Simone Manuel. She's got a podcast with another athlete we've heard of. Lots to talk about with Sue Bird. You look nice. I like the tie. Thanks. Thanks. I tied Alright, well, welcome. Please introduce yourself and what you do. This is like the hardest I don't like it at just saying Sue Bird, professional basketball player. There you go. I am a retired professional I am currently figuring my life out, but I am, I guess an the media space. I'm a co-founder of a media but also co-founder of a Own a couple professional Yep. I'm in Gotham FC and then part of the ownership group with the Seattle Storm, And so what would you say Ooh. I think what I'm finding is a lot of how I played basketball as a point guard. I liked things to make sense. I liked, you know, things to B to C in a way that set everybody for success, is really what production is like. So as I'm getting more into I'm really seeing my point Alright, so if we can let, to the start of your, or not the full start, but probably the seminal moment where we're all introduced to you, which is at UCONN. To call it a historic program, actually undersells it. Talk to us about getting there. You know, you grew up in Long and UCONN's already UCONN at that point. What is it like? Take, take us back there. Yeah. So yes and no. So they had won their first And that's Rebecca Lobo. What makes UCONN I think standpoint is that They're not quite New York. So if you're, I don't whatever you are, or if whatever, you're down here. The people in Connecticut Yeah. rallied around. So the, the, I mean, God, the So anyways, Rebecca Lobo It blows up. They're like, everybody's sweetheart, it blows up. I get to school in '98, we end up winning my sophomore year 2000. And that was the next championship. Oh, okay. So I was a part of the second one. Right. Yeah. Okay. 11, you think it's always right. So I was there pretty early, but it still was like It was the program at the time. And so, I mean, and and you experienced this as well in, in a slightly different way, to go to college for you, that that's one of your first big business decisions. Yeah. - Right. So how Like what are the, what are the conversations like with your family? Like how do you decide? So my parents were and you know, UCONN's, the top 20 public we're doing all right. But I was also being I was also being recruited by Vanderbilt. Those were actually two So I actually had to battle Mm. On wanting to go to Connecticut. I remember my dad, one of the do you want everyone you know, to be from the state of Connecticut? Like, do you want the person you marry to be from the state of Connecticut? And you know, he had a good point. Yeah. and outside of the athletes, it's a lot of Connecticut residents. But at the end of the 17-year-old when I was it really just felt right. And if you fast forward to and honestly tell you that a lot of the decisions I have made, whether it be the teams or investments, I'm trying to make, ownership groups with, it's always a feel. There's like a feel there that, that you gotta follow. different. I, I do wanna go back what your dad said, because have known exactly what was gonna come after that. But I mean, not only to people from Connecticut, that platform, one of the country pretty quickly because of the platform Were you aware of that Because as you said, it it really starts to What does it feel like? God, great question. I've Because of that 95 team and because of Rebecca Lobo especially, there was national attention And so when, when me, and not just me, I had, I came and all top recruits all, we had the number one like tippy top. Right. So we, we came in Yeah. You know, you play in the All that hype coming in with you. So it really was, I think Like I said, my class and then what was already happening at Connecticut and it just became normal. Like when I got there, the of coverage we got. I already mentioned the So we played in Gampel Pavilion on campus, which is only 10,000. But then we play in Hartford, That's like 16 plus. Wow. Every game. whether we're playing like seen, or you know, the number whether it's a beautiful day out or you know, 20 inches of snow, people are getting to those games. Yeah. Like the hoopla, we couldn't, to the mall or whatever we It really became normal. 'cause there wasn't a shift. Right when we stepped on I think it had already It's interesting to think and notoriety now, what Oh, Yeah. Dollars wise. Do you What Of course, NIL Yeah, if NIL was around 'cause we really did have, it was a, it wasn't just my class. I don't wanna make it sound like that. Like Coach Auriemma plays Sure. his personality, his little, you know. His, his little one-liners with, in a lot of ways the people of Connecticut took us in Yeah. Like they would send and brownies on our birthday. Like there was, there was, I dunno, this familiar, familiar thing happening. Yeah. But it all led to, and then the basketball play, we were dominant in my four years. I mean, we were dominant. So And I think if you look of women's sports, there through in 2024 in especially in basketball, Right? Like all these success, whether it's But if you look back at the random teams or random programs that I'm just thinking of the Portland Thorns, the NWSL team in Portland. They sell out. They've been selling out for years. They kill it. And it's just like, What's the magic potion? Why But I think the truth is or there were some scenarios of variables where the right exact recipe and UCONN women's And then you add on NCAA tournament. Yeah. Right. Right. So you talk you obviously played for a A few questions. What lessons and your time of winning? Because all you did at How has that shaped you I think the two things I One is preparation. He always used to tell us about, he would do this like when you were, you know, ready for a test. Right. How it felt when you How you feel when you walk in crammed and you weren't quite ready. And just, he would really, I, I vividly remember it was because I feel like we can and feel what that feels like. Oh my God. Right. You walk in the classroom and, and you're like, This is mildly triggering. Exactly. Exactly. And so he would always how you wanna feel on the Right. Like, of course when you play a game, anything can happen. You have to, that that is what it is. But the things that you to, and you have to prepare Mm. In the ways that you can. So And then he used to always how to, it's a game of when to, and that I think is probably, What does that mean? Everybody knows, especially Everybody knows how to But do they know when to, Do they know when to do this? Do they know when to do that? I love that. of my own play, that's probably 'cause I'm not the tallest, like I was fast when I was younger, but like, as time goes, You're not the quickest. But I I knew when to pass. I knew when to shoot. I knew when this needed I love that. I, I wanna just 'cause Lou Piniella taught us, I played in Seattle my first seven years. Started in '94 and left in 2000. And Lou, who was a great when, when do you do this? The scoreboard would when you swing, when you when you move a guy over. So that resonates with me as well. I wanna talk about this which is, we've talked about massive, to the WNBA when you made it. And I've heard you talk The culture shock as it were, of going from guaranteed sold sold out, to say the least. I think we're interested as a player and as a human. But at that point you're becoming smarter and smarter about the business. What are you making of that as So early on, nothing. I'm just like, Cool, I'm a professional athlete. That's great. Yeah. Like, You know, I'm moving from New which was difficult. So I'm just kind of Some of the early stories, or early memories that I have you know, I've just gotten The Sonics are in the playoffs and they take me to like, what is like my first And they're preparing me for it. And I'm kinda like, okay, cool. Like I've just come from the Final Four, you know what I mean? Right. And UCONN. And I walk in and I'm like, well, is everybody here yet? You know, because there's Right. that's the culture shock And then of course, you know, college, you're flying charter. Everything is like, you know, you're staying at the And interestingly enough, obviously the WNBA didn't, but the, my rookie year, we were actually still So we hadn't gone to individual Right. like one year, maybe two, I can't remember exactly, some NBA treatment. So the, like, we didn't but the hotels we stayed You know, we had a practice facility 'cause we were with the Sonics, which was kind of standard at that time. A lot of the WNBA teams affiliate practice facility. But yeah, so we had But then I think the media story to tell that, that where it was compared to college. But very quickly I and I actually just say, of fact, we were all making that in a sense, I don't 'cause we cared, but because we're making so much negotiations come up, we Just get it done. We wanna We wanna keep playing. Right. We wanna keep playing and the money's fine, So let's just, just do it. And so when you say gimme a range of For me personally? Yeah. In the or the league high low. It's hard. Yeah. It's So I would say early on, I mean, always well over six figures and early on, like my first Oh god, I'm really going to $600,000 range. But that's all like, it depends how many months you That's what Yeah. In, in my first couple years. Yeah. But I only went for like five months. So like, bang for your bucks. Not so bad. By the end of my time, now we're, we're up in like the million dollar range. Wow. that was, started, like, let's call it like 300,000. And then by the end I was Wow. With bonuses you can get over. Right. And you've got And yet it's plateauing And so how are you sort of What, what are you thinking and, and what sort of business of that in mind for yourself? Yeah. So none of my business ventures, if you wanna call it that, So let's call it, you let's say like, I'm 44 now, so They were all, I was betting on people. Like I have a good friend of mine who I grew up with, I always and said I'm opening up a Like I'm opening up the, He, he wanted to do restaurants. That's like my first big investment. So we now have, I think it's What kind of restaurant? Like upscale bar food. Vibes like, but that's how it started. And I got lucky they killed it. I got my money back within Wow. In the restaurant business? I know. That's, that's a major league. I know. Yeah. I got lucky. And as you're writing these that's excited or part of I know I was excited. I really, I feel like I not the businesses themselves. And so, whether it's or whatever it is, do you that point, as a business person, you're like, yeah, I got this. No. No. But I feel like I can sit here now and say I'm confident in Another business I'm invested in are, again, a friend I grew up with. Her and her husband have sports center facilities in New Jersey. So, you know, you rent it out, you do, you host like leagues have their tournaments there, that Yeah. Right, right. 'cause like it's their life. And I'm like, you know how in people when it's like their life. Yeah. Yes, he does know that. Shark Tank reference. Yeah. I wanna get inside As opportunities must come Are you someone that goes kind and deep in the things that you like? And walk us through if how quickly do you say no? How quickly does it go to like there's a maybe and then, yeah, I think I'm more, so I'm learning. I'm still learning very much. I've had moments of wide and I don't like it. I like And I think assuming the investment that I'm looking at is something that I feel like values are you know, provide some sort of, whatever it is, nuance expertise. Then it does it, it I kind of know right away. Like when something catches my eye, I kind of know right away. And then when something feels a little, not often a in a bad way or a negative way, but just maybe not. Right. I kind of get like that And then obviously of it is usually what Just like how much is, you know, like how do you do this? Always, maybe that's could be scary. Yes. That could be very scary. And I've, you know, I've So I wanna talk about, you know, one big decision that, that you, that you make in your career, that's one of the most recent decisions. And it's something that comes to you, which is you're done playing and somebody sort of like virtually knocking your door to own part of this team? Yeah. how the story gets told. Actually tell us the story. Yeah, no, that's not that far off. It was actually right after I retired. Okay. And you know, obviously I with the ownership group in Seattle. So like, hey, we wanna show you. So they were just opening up and doing like a raise for like So the three women that own our team, they were the sole owners. And then they just were moment. So I was being asked And they're like, we wanna same way we've been showing everybody. Like, we wanna treat you like a real, you know what I mean by real? Yeah, yeah. basically like, we wanna present. So a lot of this is gonna be redundant. Your picture's gonna show up a couple times, just ignore that. But this is what They're like, We've had some of the most and important players in history, including you might have Yeah. So I was like, We did, you know, they took and obviously this wasn't about to believe. Like, I believe that people should get in the dub for probably the last three, four years. It was like, get in now. 'cause A, you're gonna look but b in a couple years, Right. Like, get in now. So I didn't need to be But in the moment what 'cause I've literally just retired. I was just like, any other business Because it does, I what, what Tom Brady. Yeah. of things he can and can't do it. Being an owner of a team when in the sport does have implications. So I just wasn't ready And that's the only reason why it took, it ended up technically taking like a year and a half to get done. For like a year. You know, I wanted to see what what impacts that. I kinda Yeah. like our CBA negotiations so we can't talk about anything. So like that be free to speak. I didn't wanna be held back. And then as time went, I don't wanna be, I wanna be a genius. Right. idiot who got into late. Yeah. So you said something to dig into, which is what you were seeing from a were still playing that What was it that like, just made you so convinced other than Yeah. There's gotta be business perspective that it? Yeah. So I'll actually so Paige Bueckers is, you know, about to be a senior, whatever year it was. She was in, in high High school. Okay. Senior in high school 2018. 19. Yeah. Something like to see on social media, people are following her. I see. You know, you go to her what it was, she's got three, which for a high school kid, A basketball player. So I start, I saw that and I was like, huh. I was like, some, like, something is clicking So that's kind of the end. 'cause when I saw that, I was like, oh, we're, we're, we're good to go. But from my own experience, and what a lot of us we weren't making a ton of but I was getting endorsement deals. I did have value, like to come speak at events or represent, you know, a certain company or, I mean, even down to the like, Hey, my kids getting bat to come show up at this disconnect. I was like, wait a minute, the court because I'm a basketball player, but on the court, the business part of the basketball is not So then I start learning really set up for the WNBA to succeed. So it, it, I knew it wasn't gonna be easy, but I also was like, the reason the way we're seeing it now isn't because people don't Right. how many times would Like, nobody goes to those games. And then I'm like, well that's weird. 'cause I was just in the and people are seeing it now and they're like, wow, And by the way, the attendance It's not to take away from this year. Every finals I've ever with the exception of a few where we couldn't play, not in Seattle, we had to go on the road. And some of those teams couldn't get their arenas. So we had to play in smaller See how the systems aren't set up, but all, you hear all and the conversations were Nobody watches. But I knew, I I get stopped for pictures. Like obviously people care. Right. So anyways, but if you to seeing the Paige Buecker's Yeah. Getting that attention oh, something's changing. And, and that's a because I remember that, Paige buckets, like all of she commits to UConn. It's like, oh, UConn big And, and the same sort of thing. And it, there was, it, it certainly presaged what we saw over the last two years Right? Or the last maybe three with Caitlin and Angel Like the, the Paige mania There was a lot of heat around her. Yeah. Yeah. So now like that said was like, society's changing. Mm. Like, younger people basketball or girls' basketball. Yeah. and you had even not just girls but boys, like why I remember during the pandemic, you Paige was like going on her IG live. Yes. You know how you can like bring someone in and it's like NBA guys. So that, that's different. And that all speaks to like that I feel like pro sports usually has that women's basketball, for you know, I always like, we were the butt of the joke on SNL skits. Yeah. And, and Paige, to me, marked I mean, especially to it, that we're sitting There's a lot of when too, Going on now. So when you make that mode of thinking. So some of it's luck in a sense, I think Togethxr is a great this was a scenario where it was 2018, 19. I get a call from Alex And the easiest way to she calls me on the phone, LeBron has Uninterrupted, right? Derek Jeter has Players Tribune. So these athletes are starting to tell other athletes stories. She's like, and they do cover They've covered women's I've been covered by, by both of those platforms. But there's not one But the when to of it all is here. You had myself, Alex Morgan, Simone Manuel, four athletes that have been living our athlete lives. We see what's happening in front of us. We understand the landscape and So we all come together Now the lucky part is you can't predict what happened in women's sports from, let's call it 2019 equal The women's, the US women's What comes from that is the A lot of activism, we're able to stand for something bigger than that is now on TV a lot more. 'cause there's nothing on TV Then you have Sedona Prince, of the discrepancies between the, The locker room weight rooms yeah. So you have all these moments that in some way were, were we're luck. Right. But Togethxr Right. but the wheels were in And boom, when we launch, we're And now we're, I would argue, one of the more important platforms and again, we were just ready to do it. Yeah. hits, we're right on top of it, Describe what it started or less what you imagined it would be? It's not far from from where it is now, but I we were just trying to tell Right. Shine the light on people that don't always get And as you know, as it to now you start to realize, of their, their fans Right. Like, you go to a Yankee game 'cause your, your dad took you and 'cause his dad took him, And that's how a lot of the And for women's sports, we just And so for women's sports, a It is the players' stories. I feel like the best Like we all do it. We You happen to catch a special to, I don't know, play badminton. And now you're like tuning in. You're like the biggest Women's sports thrives on that. Like we have data around that now. So... The shoulder programming type stuff. Yeah. Like yeah, getting to know them in a different way. And so much of men's sports, like we know so much about male Oh yeah. Oh, he knows. Yeah. By osmosis almost. Like, we know what You don't even know And that just doesn't exist So Togethxr... part of Togethxr's mission to make a mark in, in the telling these stories, a quickie on Instagram where for 30 seconds or becoming whether it's documentaries or series. And so that was always But I think the part we community that it built And how the identity of the company itself almost was yes, dictated by the founders, but more so dictated by that community. Like what they wanted, what to be almost like obsessed with. And then you're kind of feeding that. It was almost like I bet she never thought she'd Talk about that. I mean... That's really cool. So one part of it is it shows that exists in women's sports. You can't get like, cool It's changing, don't get me wrong. I'm not really talking about of mine and I were just talking about the like pink it and shrink it. I actually didn't know that term. Oh... So yeah, I didn't know either. So it's basically like, all I bet when the Yankees at some point, let's call it 15 years get merch going for women, obviously, and then they Pink it and shrink it. Oh, wow. not everybody wants that. Right. Right. to have like a real, you know, Yankees uniform, uniform Yeah. You'd want it, like the authentic thing. You don't want the pink version. That fits you. Yeah. Right. everyone watches women's sports that is in merchandise in women's we're a business, right. For a long time, women's sports this box, some people would check. And now I think we're being looked at as like a real investment, But the people involved in about the impact. And they're still statements and making points. And I think when people wear that shirt, there's like a pride to it. Like Yeah. Like this is And so there's something to that. How did the T-shirt come about? Like what's the origin story? Yeah, I, so I was not there. Like, I'm not in the, the, Yeah. of different T-shirt And then this particular what I understand, a that work it Togethxr, just and, you know, oh, I of people were like, nobody And so they were like, what can Like, do we do a shirt? I didn't know it was but SpongeBob Squarepants font? Yes. lowercase, uppercase, lowercase. So they were thinking like, oh, do we do something like that? As if to say No, you know, you're And then I think it was Justine Brown, a couple people in the why don't we just write So why don't we just have sports? And there you have it. Wow. And, and a big pivotal moment of that was Dawn Staley wearing it during a South Carolina game. On I wanna Yeah. And so is is something I mean, is it measurable? How do you measure the impact either on your business, Like what, are there that you can then use? Yeah, I mean, this one's pretty simple. It made a lot of money. Yeah. - It made a lot of which obviously in business that's always, You know, welcome. Right. Millions? I mean, I don't know if I'm Yeah, Like way up there. So now, like I said, this was that was there, but not really given a ton And now it's like, oh, like Like, what do we wanna do with this? How do we wanna grow this? And so now those are the conversations Because you're doing collab with a team, right? With their team colors. With Yeah. And we did for the Olympics, we did it in French, So that was nice. I'm Yeah, And so that becomes a, a sort of, if I'm understanding you, sort of an unanticipated growth that you continue to invest in. Yeah, absolutely. Totally unexpected and now totally real. Yeah. And so, you know, one of we've all seen anecdotally, but also empirically is Like, so how do you, through to what you are doing, the decisions you make about what to make? It's sort of the, the how and the when to that you mentioned earlier. So how did those viewership Honestly, it's just kind of oh, if you invest in this, 'cause because for me, the story to be like super simple about it, was look where we got without any investment. Now imagine if you invested in it. Like we were able to do concrete poured all over us constantly. Like nothing can grow when And yet we still found a way. And sometimes this one's I'm, I'm working You're... we're work-shopping This is a real time. I love it. But I always felt this, girls sports isn't some where we're like, no, trust us. Like girls aren't going anywhere. They're going to keep being born and sports isn't going anywhere. Like these two things, like girls' sports and women's sports are not going anywhere. So to me it's like, why not And, and then of course when you start to change the narratives, key and what I call that cool factor. Like, we have crossed this Where culturally like, like people felt like the intensity, there were stakes on that game. Yeah. like a huge baseball fan. I like tapping, but like the World series, like hell yeah. I'm watching that. Right, right, right. where the casual is like, Yeah. somewhere in there is answer. that? Like what, what changed it? That stakes point is a really, Like what changed the, the I think it's this cool I think we were like, in the consciousness of, of the casual fan, we weren't worth it. It didn't matter. And I in fandom there's like three categories. There's the diehards, Like, it doesn't matter. They are there, they're a ride or die. Then there's the people which every sport has that. The people that I always say like, if it's not your thing, But if it's not your thing, that's cool. Like there's stuff I But then there's that larger piece or that larger group, Right. The one that isn't really into it but is going 'cause their And it's cool to be there. And so we've always struggled in that. And, and that's where I'm going back to this like consciousness. Like people just, I mean, we Yeah. So if I were to nutshell that I've already like a Paige Buecker's, the NCAA Final Four has Sedona Prince's TikTok, Kobe Yeah. moments of breakthrough. And then all of a sudden this comes, and the way I frame it is, fire was going, it was burning. It was burning, and it Like even if you look at a finals, it was way higher than 2022. Like it was starting, the fire was there, but Caitlin came and she poured gasoline all over that thing. Yeah. And she broke through, I It was, we finally had Oh, interesting. Because all anybody ever wants to say is, you're not, not literally, they don't literally say this, the translation is like, I can probably beat you. But now it's, oh ****, that Like, I don't think I can do that. Yeah. Men, women, there's a respect factor. And that leads into all the things you're seeing and the cool factor. And it, and it just is born from them. So, so you talked about you starting to foresee what to where we are today, five, ten years. What is the upside for this league? Because I don't think Yeah, no, I know. I mean, I'm, I'm hopeful that in a couple years that we just signed and we're like, oh, it needs to be bigger. You know, I'm hopeful for that because that's, that's always the argument like men's so successful. Pick a league, it doesn't even matter. But how much growth can percentage point or two. Right. And you hope for because we haven't had the all the things, the growth is insane. And it is, it's hard to, to put a, an exact number figure on it. I personally think my semi I think the women's basketball at the LA 2028 Olympics. Hmm. we're gonna continue to grow. Mm. In the next four years, the way you've seen it this year, it's gonna continue to grow. The Paige Buecker's, the Juju's, Yeah. Flau'jae Johnson. All of this young talent that builds huge brands and By the way, that's another That was always a major disconnect. I, I went to UCONN. I had huge Yeah. Following WNBA gone, it with transfer. And that's for years. Yeah. I think NIL plays a role in that. Yeah. so now all these young They're gonna, you know, hit the stage and meet up with the and the Asia Wilson's. And in four years when that growth will, will that Olympics could then Yeah. Be like that next You know, one way, and Jace one way of thinking about it is haters for every league. Right. For men, women, you W's been a failure for so long. I, I look at it a little bit different. First of all, you gotta give Stern on a lot of credit almost 30 years ago or whatever. But if you look at the NBA compared to the WNBA in the first 25 that the W has been NBA in the first 25 years. So when you think about It is a growth business and it's doing quite well for Yeah. I, I mean, yeah. That's one of, that's one Yeah. For sure. Let me ask you this, 'cause I think it is very interesting. When you said UCONN, you and it doesn't transfer When has social media impacted that? Because one of the things wait a minute, they have more followers than some of our guys. Yeah. So you have a real metric in your face that you can't ignore So how much has social Huge, huge. Some of it is I think you're right. A lot athletes and it is, it's Yeah. It's, it's like, it catches And I'm thankful for social media. It played an incredibly huge role in, in what we're seeing now, not I think all of women's sports, to use it to tell our stories. We were all able to use it to, to show different parts I mean, one of my favorite, favorite, it's not a great story, but favorite because it kind of tells the story. So I'm, I'm into fashion. It's But I, you know, I like getting a fit off every now and then. And when that was we were also wearing our, But we didn't always have photographers. So there was a year where I so at home, we could tell our team and like, Hey, can, can we get the photographer when we show up? Cool, no problem. But on the road For your tunnel fit. Yeah. For a tunnel fit. But on the road, we couldn't get a photographer. There were years where we just like snap it. And then what we would do is we would post it on our own social media. And that's one example, social But that's one example how we were able to use social that the larger, I guess, wasn't gonna get to see if we didn't, if we didn't put it on our own channels. I, I'd love to talk for, about your, your partnership especially when it that you guys have made Yeah. with A Touch More and and and how does it evolve? Well, we're in couples therapy, so there's your answer. Sometimes we hear that on the pod. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Exactly. No, it's been great because but really compliment each other and we're seeing that show up in business. Like I am, you know, I and know when to, so I'm like And I like, I like to, like, I'm, I'm kind of the one topic to the next. I'm the one like keeping Whereas Megan's more spontaneous and more off the cuff. So you're like Jason. Yeah. Basically. I mean, I'd, I'd be interested through the Gotham investment. I would imagine, you know, growth leagues, different paths, Women's soccer has already, professionally The W, to Alex's point, has and then all of a sudden really quickly. How do you, what do you The better way to answer Megan and her national team they were also doing a CBA. And it was pretty much at the same time that we were doing our CBA. Oh, interesting. Yeah, because to your point, We're very lucky. At times I've called the NBA gift and a curse 'cause it's such a gift. We wouldn't be here without the NBA, but the curse part of it is sometimes you need individual attention. You know, so that And the WNBA is, is so much further along because of, you know, what we've been able to learn from the NBA whereas the NWSL it, it has like almost less rules. Whereas in the WNBA, at times we're hamstrung by NBA rules. Now sometimes they fit for And that's what we're figuring out. I mean we have been figuring out, but my point being, we, we, we were able to learn from each other. Interesting. that's how you would do that? Like, oh, lemme see if And vice versa. What I've seen that the Tisch family has bought the team, you really see what it means. And I feel like you guys have with the Lynx in Minnesota. Like, you see what it is and you see what it is when they're like, go get those good players. Finals come. Now where the leagues are salary cap of it all. The WNBA is a hard salary cap. There's zero wiggle room. You are like, you, either Like, that's it. Whereas they have like a little more, there's a little more where you can kind of, I don't Mm. It's not. Yeah. Angel City just had a say. Yeah. We're gonna move to I love a rapid fire. We're gonna hit it hard. You're a pro. We'll bounce back and to describe your deal making Style? What's more important? Instincts. Who's your dream making partner? Oh man. Alex. What's the best piece of making or business? Probably something in I don't have like an exact How to. Yeah, know when to, I mean. What's the worst I haven't really been I'm open for advice. Who or bad? I am open. What's your hype song or a big negotiation? I'm a Jay-Z fan. Yeah. I mean, I have my My First Song's, another You've won at the NCAA level. You've won at the WNBA level and you've won at the Olympic level. What's your favorite title? God, it's real. I It's really hard not to Yeah. Because it's like Yeah. But the 2018 WNBA championship Why? and I stuck around for it. Whereas I could have requested a trade or tried to go win somewhere else. I stuck around, I was like, And never expected to be there again. So to do it unexpectedly it's like a, you do it unexpectedly early and when you do it, then I'm gonna be here every year. You're not. But when you do it unexpectedly there's just something special to it. If you can only watch one sport for the rest of your Ah, it's basketball. championship more than anything? Well, Seattle Storm. Not Not the Huskies? The Huskies. Oh, close seecond. You know, I wouldn't Wow. Okay. that'll be number three. Curve ball. Do you have a fun fact about yourself that your teammates would Oh, good question. Probably that I made a really and got my tongue pierced. Whoa. Yeah. No. No. Our college coaches like got word that some people got it done. I took that thing out immediately, Quickly. Yeah. Me neither Oh, oh yeah. I was like, with me having, I was like, yeah, I can't even imagine it either. Yeah. That's that. That's This has been really Yeah, no, thank you. I enjoyed it.