Translator: Tanya Cushman Here's the moment of truth: Show of hands. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Some more. Thank you. That's almost a fair assessment. We've got about 20% That's one in five people. And I think that dyslexia as this reading issue, you know, we have a tendency of flipping and that's, you know, at least in the symptomatic department. But I want to take this opportunity to speak a little bit more in depth So, we have this outer layer And we all know that we have - but we have these little things And these minicolumns serve What strings together Okay? Now, people with autism, for example, have axons that are extremely closely and as a result, their axon lengths and as a result they are able highly specific patterns Well, dyslexics are we have our minicolumns As a result, our axon lengths And this actually lends We have an ability to look at a situation and identify seemingly disparate and blend those into that makes sense to us So this translates in four major vocational paths. That's entrepreneurship, I just want you to please remember that, Dyslexia comes with a cost though, okay? We have an incredibly difficult time Okay, that's the most complex and I hope you're impressed by it. Phonetic decoding to identify these squiggly lines, translate those lines and then string those sounds For dyslexics, that takes five time more energy So, to give you a little bit I'll go back and start off with the first nine-tenths Societies were largely based From hunter and gatherers people learned by observing Now, this happens to be this is our prime opportunity to learn. Then there was this little twist It was called the Industrial Revolution. And what happened is the society said, &quot;Okay, What we need to do is educate the masses to become effective worker bees Now, this dovetailed historically with the importation And so everyone was incredibly excited that would enable us that could then be scaled Now, this served society except for the fact you essentially locked the door Those of us with dyslexia. So, what does the dyslexic Of those that raised their hands, but I'll illuminate it I ask you to take a stroll back to those sepia-toned images where school was sort of this montage of recess and nap time and snack time; the world was a really good place, right? And then, all of a sudden, at one point, they kind of tightened the screws a bit, and said, &quot;We're going to introduce They didn't put it that way; they said, And all of a sudden, for those of us with dyslexia, We realized, looking at our peers, that what everybody else we had an incredible time trying to do. And we actually but we failed on day two and the years started to compound where we were exposed that became so commonplace that we started to wear There's a psychologist Dr. Kaufman studies shame. Dr. Kaufman says that people or who have difficulty feel the same level of shame So you can imagine what it's like - again, you see that in yourself, and you realize that after a while, and then you get this reinforcement, negative, albeit, where you're walking down the hall, &quot;That guy Dean. Kid's so dumb Or the best one is where they're like, but if he just tried harder. I think he's a little bit lazy.&quot; Okay? And so what happens is that you formulate you start to believe - no matter you start to believe So it should come as no surprise: you transition into thinking, &quot;Okay, who am I going to be?&quot; We all remember that. Trying to define who we were going to be And we knew that we're not I mean, albeit the wrong assessment, but we knew we weren't Maybe we were the gifted jock, but chances are we looked at the kids, after school, smoking reefer or the kids throwing rocks through glass or somebody maybe even getting involved And we'd think to ourselves I can be that guy; that's very easy. And so we naturally gravitate And statistically, it's a very sad story. You know, 35% of all dyslexics and 50% of all adolescents involved have dyslexia. Another whammy is 60% - in fact, the professionals but I think that's outlandish - the people that work say that 70% of all juvenile delinquents have dyslexia. So, that is a very strong But we all have heard - I heard we've all heard how Einstein was dyslexic. JFK, Pablo Picasso, Leonardo DaVinci, Richard Branson, Charles Schwab. I mean the laundry list is endless, right? In fact, dyslexics, and they recognize represent 35% of all entrepreneurs. They represent 40% And you know those One out of two of them is dyslexic. My favorite, because I live is this easy-to-get-into they call dyslexia the &quot;MIT disease.&quot; So, I've kind of toiled with this notion of why it is that my people - right? - suffer this huge delta in outcomes. And about a year-and-a-half ago, I found myself in which is the worst name and I was listening to these professors, They had, you know, three or four and they were sitting there saying is through two things. We need to teach them social/emotional learning Okay? That's code word and emotional intelligence. And I sat there, like you all did, and I was just getting Like, man, what they don't get is that adding another discipline is like, &quot;Alright, kids, Here's an 800-pound sledgehammer, called social/emotional Take this. It's really Makes absolutely no sense. So I was frustrated, and I went that was hosted by the Carroll School, K through 8, dyslexic only. And the head of the school, brilliant guy He said, &quot;I'm not going to talk Let me put my kids up there.&quot; So, I remember this one eighth-grader, this gangly little dude, standing in front of a room like this. And he reaches into this backpack, and he pulls out this and on the heel, he's got and this long cord leading out of it. And he explains to everybody for a shoe that enables him And everyone is like, Yeah, there's some technical issues, But the beauty was that the moment every arm in the place shot up, right? And all these very impressed educators That's so creative.&quot; And I watched this kid - literally - this little 8th-grader, That kid was going to walk out and he was never ever going to believe In fact, the kid is probably, going out to Palo Alto and Right? He's going to displace Zuckerberg. This kid was so empowered. And I thought to myself, Here's the answer. What we have to do is we have to take these students so frustrated, so thirsty and introduce them to which is a direct result As I said earlier, entrepreneurship, what we need to do is take distill them to an age-appropriate and then once we've got we can embed it with and executive functioning methodology because I can attest they are ravenous; they are thirsty; they've built up this moxie and this grit, and then, all of a sudden, you're revealing something that this is a brand new message. And so I'm in Cambridge, like I said, and I went to the best institutions: I went to Harvard School of Education, and I said this is what I want to build. They said, &quot;We're down.&quot; Not brilliant - I hope They said, &quot;We're interested.&quot; (Laughter) A little artistic liberty, I guess. Still working out (Laughter) But the beauty was they got on board, and then I was faced with the question, &quot;Okay, how do I avoid the mistake Right? How do I avoid text So I hunted around, and it turns out have created something called edX. edX is a state-of-the-art where they provide their MOOCs - And because these three universities each one of them, they said part of building this is we'll open source our software, which means that anybody can utilize to create their own MOOCs. So, I found a company that works and the software, and we determined that I could actually offer through a variety of modalities. I could offer my lesson plan I could offer it or a graphic or which enables that dyslexic learner without having to stumble Now, I don't want that dyslexics don't have to learn But the point is this: if we can get to these kids we can access or reveal to them before, as my friend Ben Foss - &quot;Before the cement we can, theoretically - we can take these kids, empower them in such a way that we can not only and reduce drug and alcohol but, better yet, is we can they can access within themselves where they can go out, and they can join the ranks of those but more importantly, so these individuals satisfied, content, And I'll end it on this: There are a lot of problems I think the previous speaker spoke about Some of the most creative, are at this moment atrophying behind bars. And that's all a result of a system that insists upon the most archaic form So, I hope I'll get and I'll be able to explain to you - no, better yet - I'll be able that's non-TEDx, but let's say - put up a panel of my newly empowered, and let them show you or what they are going to do to solve So, I'm so grateful to have had to hopefully tell you a little bit more about this dyslexic potential So I thank you so much for being here. (Applause)