MATT PARKER: I'm going to show favorite diagrams. And it's a way of linking from one to the next. And a lot of people will have have a video on this about happy numbers. DR RIA SYMONDS: 0 squared This makes my number MATT PARKER: And I'm not going I'm going to do a thing on the And I'll get to that in My first diagram is the So for example, let's do let's do 13. You can square both those digits So if you square 1, you get 1. If you square 3, you get 9. And so that will give you 10. OK? And if you repeat you then square 1, you get 1. You square 0, you get 0. That will give you 1. And so 13, through a chain, And there are other So let's say you had 23. And you square 2, you get 4. You square 3, you get 9. You get 13. 23 will lead into Doesn't matter what In fact, over here, we could And what I'm going to do now is all the two-digit numbers, three-digit numbers. We could have come into 10. 130 would work just as well. And that will have come in from 9 and square 7, add them Which of course means that 79 And we could have got there from in from 49. And if we come in from 49, we or from 7, would give us 49, And on the other side over got to 32 via 44. And we actually could have And we could have got 86 would have got us to The great thing about 68 that's can get there from 28. Or you can come in from 82. And you can get into 82 And those are all the two-digit in this happy tree. And I call that process of all the digits-- and then adding So you could call this the are all the extreme points. So actually, that there is That's the top of that branch. That's the top of that of them feed down. And obviously, a lot of the redundant-- vestigial, I guess-- number point, because it doesn't order of the digits. OK. BRADY HARAN: Happification MATT PARKER: Happification There you are. Now, the diagram I really want talking about 145-- is not the happification tree. We'll do this with 83. That's probably a good start. 83 is not a happy number. And the reason 83 is not a happy over here-- is that if you bear with me-- 83, you do not end up at 1. But where else can you What happens? Square 8 and square 3. And you add them together. You end up with 73, which, as could also happen if you So put that in for completeness 73-- if you now square 7 and square If you square 5, square 8, If you square 8, square 9, mentioning before. If you square 1, 4, and 5, and get 42, a rather If you square those, If you go from 20, 4 goes straight to 16. 16 will give you 37, and then And at this point, we're So now, two things happen. When you start with a two-digit squaring and adding the digits, here at 1, so you can consider So I call this the happification And it all grows out of 1. Or you end up in this And all the other numbers So these are the And I call these the-- melancoiling numbers? That'll work. So you've got the happy melancoiling numbers. And because I am the thorough, going to fill in very quickly-- bearing with me for I'm going to fill in all the 37 has quite a tree You can get to 37 from that is a 6-- which feeds in from 95 and 59. Or alternatively, you can also kind of cool. 61-- you can get to there from 65, which comes off 75 and 57. Whereas 61 also gives us OK, 45-- nearly there. 63, that's 36. And down here, we end up there's another end. This is the map, which consists all the two-digit numbers This is the structure for all happificate them, so where you them together. And you'll notice it requires form the structure. So there's a three-digit There's the 145, which the And there's a few other ones. There's 113 hiding down here. Where else does one sneak in? There's 130 sneaks And they're vital for All other three-digit or higher this diagram. This is the complete structure BRADY HARAN: Let's draw the MATT PARKER: OK. I'll get some-- no! So you can if you want, further detail to this. And what I love is all numbers into one of two situations. They either filter down to 1. Or they will filter down And this is it. And of course, from here, you And I'm going to refrain from But you could look at what digits, right? So if you cube all your digits, you get more scenarios. You get some numbers that go-- types of coils. There are different ways Because you always get 1, drop you there. There are points-- which there's no points here. It's either 1, or You get points in three there are other videos about DR RIA SYMONDS: It's It's in love with itself. MATT PARKER: When you hit, let's plus 3 cubed plus 7 cubed And so you end up stuck. And things feed into And you can do it for powers of of infinite number And you can do it in Mathematicians get a bit base-10-centric. And there's no reason why this to other bases. But there you are. If you limit yourself just to the two diagrams you get. And so I got bored. And I made a quick And I went through. And I classified all of this and So this was me, again, bored And we went through and So there you are. I came up with this myself, could have done this. I don't want to claim This somewhat pathetic name of come up with. But again, I've seen them or unhappy numbers. But then again, why are they first place? What a ridiculous name. So this particular numbers is of my invention. And as always, I gave it a