Hello--and welcome to the Google Career I'm so excited that you're here! My name is Toni and I am a Security I'll be your instructor for the first course By starting this course, you've already that will help you in your career. Cybersecurity may seem daunting at first, but backgrounds many of us have. I worked as an intelligence analyst before I and I'm excited to be your instructor as you The Demand for security professionals is By 2030, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics expects security higher than the average growth rate for Global access to the Internet is expanding. Every day more people and organizations are Having a diverse community of security perspectives and experiences is essential Working in security has allowed me to work Working with people who have diverse lots of questions and come up with more The main objective in security is to protect This line of work allows you to support and There are many openings for entry-level struggling to find enough candidates with This program is designed to give YOU the advance in the security profession. No matter your current skill level, by the you'll be prepared to find a security! You may be wondering, what do Have you ever had to update your password symbol? If so, then you're already familiar management. And, if you've ever received a stolen data or a software hack, then you a security breach. If you've ever asked yourself how already have two important traits that are curiosity and excitement. Security analysts help minimize risks to Analysts work to proactively guard against systems and networks. And, if an incident does occur, they They are always asking questions and looking One of the best things about the security it exposes you to! Each option involves a No matter what your background is, you'll relevant experience. If you enjoy collaborating with and helping challenges, then this is the career for you! For example, my background as an intelligence However, having strong critical thinking solid foundation for my success when I If you're not sure what direction you want to This program will give you an overview of It will also let you explore certain where you want to take your career. The Google Career Certificates are designed experience here at Google. You'll have a different expert from Google certificate. We'll share our knowledge in hands-on activities, and take you through the job. Throughout this program, you'll responding to attacks, monitoring and and writing code to automate tasks. The program is made up of several courses entry-level job! You'll learn about topics domains; network security; computing basics understanding assets, threats, and Our goal is to help you reach YOUR goal of You'll learn about incident detection and languages, like Python, to accomplish common You'll also gain valuable job search to find and apply for jobs in the security Completing this Google Career Certificate use tools to prepare you for a job in a The certificate is designed to prepare you on the certificate part-time. And once you graduate, you can connect with hiring Google Career Certificate graduates, Whether you're looking to switch jobs, start Google Career Certificate can open doors to You don't need prior experience or knowledge certificate program will begin with the I'll be by your side throughout this first foundational knowledge needed to succeed in This program is also flexible. You can complete all of the courses in this pace, online. We've gathered some amazing instructors to to introduce themselves now: Hi! My name is Ashley, and I'm a Customer Operation Sales at Google. I'll take you through security domains, security threats, risks, and You'll also be introduced to common tools I can't wait to get started! Hi there! My name is Chris, and I'm the Chief Fiber. I'm excited to talk to you about the common network attacks, and how to secure a Hi there! My name is Kim, and I'm a Technical I will guide you through foundational security analyst. We'll also learn about operating systems, Hi! My name is Da'Queshia, and I'm a Security Together we'll explore protecting security controls and develop a deeper Hi! My name is Dave, and I'm a Principal In our time together, we'll learn about incidents. You'll also have the chance to powerful security tools. Hello, I'm Angel, and I'm a Security Engineer We'll explore foundational Python common security tasks. Hello, I'm Dion, I'm a Program Manager at I'm your instructor for the first portion of There, we'll discuss how to escalate And my name is Emily. I'm a Program Manager I'll guide you through the final portion of engage with the security community and And, as you already know, I'll guide you This is such a great time to grow your Sound exciting? Let's get started! Hi again! Now that you have some idea of what discuss more about what you'll learn in THIS This course will introduce you to the world business operations, users, and devices so internet for all. In this section we'll cover foundational First, we'll define security. Then, we'll explore common job Building on that, we'll cover core skills a Finally, we'll discuss the value of security Later on, we'll cover eight security domains. Then, we'll cover common security frameworks Finally, we'll wrap up the course by languages that entry-level security analysts Coming up, we'll go over some resources that program. I'm really excited for you to start Imagine that you're preparing for a storm. You've received notification that a storm is You prepare by gathering the tools and You make sure your windows and doors are You assemble a first aid kit, tools, food, You're prepared! The storm hits, and there The storm is using its force to try and You notice some water leaks and begin any risk or potential damage. Handling a security incident is no different. Organizations must prepare for the storm by quickly respond to outside threats. The objective is to minimize risk and As a security analyst, you'll work to protect from a variety of risks and outside threats. And if a threat does get through, you and the situation. To help you better understand discuss the roles of security professionals Let's start with some definitions: of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and networks, devices, people, and data from For example, requiring complex passwords to confidentiality by making it much more them. A threat actor is any person or group Now that you know the definition of security, organization. Security protects against An external threat is someone outside of the information, networks, or devices. An internal threat comes from current or trusted partners. Often these internal threats are accidental, link in an email. Other times, the internal such as unauthorized data access or abusing Experienced security professionals will help of - threats like these. Security teams also ensure an organization guidelines, that require the implementation Ensuring that organizations are in compliance while also upholding their ethical Security teams also maintain and improve By establishing a plan for business their jobs even in the case of something Being security conscious can also reduce recovering from data loss or operational The last benefit of security that we'll If services or customer data are organization, damage the brand, and hurt the Loss of customer trust may also lead to less Now, let's go over some common security-based After completing this certificate program, search for: Security analyst or specialist, Cybersecurity analyst or specialist, Security operations center or SOC analyst, And Information security analyst. You'll also learn more about the responsibilities associated with some of these job titles As you may now realize, the field of security And every activity you complete in this job! Let's keep learning together! Technology is rapidly changing, and so are use. As digital infrastructure evolves, continually grow their skills in order to In this video, we'll discuss some job analyst. So, what do security analysts do? Security analysts are responsible for systems. Now, we'll discuss three primary starting with protecting computer and Protecting computer and network systems organization's internal network. If a threat is detected, then an analyst is Analysts also often take part in exercises to own systems. For example, a security analyst ethical hacking. The goal is to penetrate - network to identify vulnerabilities and measures. Think of it like this. After you lock your car, you check the door valuables you keep inside. Security analysts also proactively work to place. One way they do this is by working to install prevention software for the vulnerabilities. Analysts may also be development. They'll often work with by setting up appropriate processes and protection needs. The last task we'll audits. A security audit is a review of an and other related documents. For example, an analyst may examine in-house confidential information, like individual employees. Phew, that was a lot to cover! But hopefully you have a general idea of day-to-day basis. Security analysts are an important part of Their daily tasks protect small businesses, and government agencies. They also help to ensure that the people For any job, you need certain skills to be transferable from one role to the next. No matter what job you currently have, you Having a diverse background enhances your experiences and perspectives are especially In this video, we'll discuss both particularly useful for a security analyst. Transferable skills are skills from other Technical skills may apply to several may require knowledge of specific tools, Let's discuss some core transferable skills a career as a security analyst. Communication is a transferable skill for a They will often need to describe certain who may not have a technical background. For example, security analysts may be tasked and procedures to other employees. Or analysts may be asked to report findings actions can be taken to secure the Another transferable skill is collaboration. Security analysts often work in teams with and program managers. For example, if you are working to roll out a project manager, an engineer, and an ethical Security analysts also need to be able to encounter. For example, a security analyst different tools can support efficiency and The last transferable skill that we'll Identifying a security problem and then necessary skill to keep business operations Understanding threat actors and identifying future threats. Okay, now that we've covered discuss some technical skills that security A basic understanding of programming because security analysts can use error messages. Like learning any other seem challenging at first. However, this certificate program assumes no at the very beginning and provide several languages like Python and SQL! Another important technical skill is knowing management, or SIEM, tools. Security professionals use SIEM tools to and vulnerabilities. For example, a SIEM tool may alert you that In the event of an unknown user accessing investigate the incident. Now, let's discuss computer forensics. Similar to an investigator and a forensic system, digital forensic investigators will criminal evidence within networks, Keep in mind that you may already have some And if you don't have the technical skills, This program is designed to support you in For example, over the past seven years security analysts need to have intellectual in order to succeed. Personally, I dedicate Python and SQL skills in order to meet the You'll get to learn about Python and SQL As you continue this journey, you'll build the security field! As we've discussed, and digital assets. These skills are desired by organizations be managed. Let's continue to discuss why Security is essential for ensuring an ethical standing. There are both legal maintaining an organization's security. A data breach, for example, affects everyone This is because data losses or leaks can as the lives and reputations of their users, By maintaining strong security measures, This may lead to financial growth and As previously mentioned, organizations are breach. Maintaining and securing user, part of preventing incidents that may expose Personally identifiable information, known as individual's identity. PII includes someone's full name, date of address, Internet Protocol, or I-P, address Sensitive personally identifiable type of P-I-I that falls under stricter security numbers, medical or financial facial recognition. If S-P-I-I is stolen, more damaging to an individual than if P-I-I P-I-I and S-P-I-I data are key assets that a experiences a breach. When a person's identifiable information is theft is the primary concern. Identity theft is the act of stealing impersonating a victim. And the primary objective of identity theft We've explored several reasons why security Employers need security analysts, like you, protect data, products, and people while access to information. This is why the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics expects the more than 30% by the year 2030. So keep learning, and eventually you'll be more secure environment for organizations Congratulations on completing the first Let's quickly review what we've covered so We defined security and introduced the organization. Then, we discussed different threats and installing prevention software. We also introduced some important core forensics. We finished by discussing the critical business functions. I hope you've gained a greater understanding If you feel like you need a refresher before any content you're unsure about. By learning the basics, you're laying the career. Coming up, we'll explore some industry. I'm excited to continue this Welcome back! When it comes to security, to be part of your career journey. This is such an exciting time to be learning When I learned about international hacks government organizations, I was inspired to how dynamic and important this field is. One reason there are so many jobs in the that happened in the 1980s and 1990s. Decades later, security professionals are organizations and people from variations of In this section of the course, we'll discuss concept of social engineering. Then, we'll discuss how the digital age Knowing the evolution of each attack is key Lastly, we'll provide an overview of eight I hope you are as eager as I am to learn Next up, we'll travel back in time to explore malware attacks that have helped shape the The security industry is constantly evolving, new. Attackers often alter or enhance Understanding past attacks can provide incidents in your job as a security analyst. First, let's go over a couple of key terms attacks we'll discuss. A computer virus is malicious code written to damage to data and software. The virus attaches itself to programs, or Then spreads and infects one or more A worm is a type of computer virus that can involvement. Today, viruses are more software designed to harm devices or Two examples of early malware attacks that Morris worm. They were created by malware However, the developers underestimated the amount of "infected" computers there would Let's take a closer look at these attacks and know it today. In 1986, the Alvi brothers Although the intention of the virus was to prevent pirated licenses, what the virus Once a person used a pirated copy of the Then, any disk that was inserted into the The virus spread to a new computer every Undetected, the virus spread globally within Although the intention was not to destroy productivity and significantly impacted The Brain virus fundamentally altered the a plan to maintain security and As a security analyst, you will follow and your organization has a plan to keep their Another influential computer attack was the In 1988, Robert Morris developed a program The program crawled the web and installed number of computers that were connected to Sounds simple, right? The program, however, failed to keep track of continued to reinstall itself, until the About 6,000 computers were affected, This attack cost millions of dollars in efforts required to remove the worm. After the Morris worm, Computer Emergency established to respond to computer security CERTs(r) still exists today, but their place include more responsibilities. Later in this program you'll learn more about and gain hands-on practice with detection Early attacks played a key role in shaping And coming up, we'll discuss how attacks With the expansion of reliable high-speed to the internet increased dramatically. Because malware could spread through the use physical disks to spread viruses. To better understand attacks in the digital relied on the internet: The LoveLetter In the year 2000, Onel de Guzman created the credentials. This attack spread rapidly and developed a healthy suspicion for Users received an email with the subject line attachment labeled, "Love Letter For You." When the attachment was opened, the malware Then, it automatically sent itself to each collect user information and passwords. Recipients would think they were receiving an malware. The LoveLetter ended up infecting to have caused over $10 billion in damages. The LoveLetter attack is the first example of Social engineering is a manipulation private information, access, or valuables. After the LoveLetter, attackers understood The number of social engineering attacks is application that allows public access to Many people are now prioritizing convenience The trade off of this evolving shift is that vulnerability, if people do not use them As a security professional, your role is to technology that may place your organization risk. One way to safeguard your organization which you as a future security analyst may Today, it's common for employees to receive engineering attacks. Specifically, phishing through the emails Phishing is the use of digital sensitive data or deploying malicious Now let's discuss the Equifax breach. In 2017, attackers successfully infiltrated This resulted in one of the largest known Over 143 million customer records were 40% of all Americans. The records included personally identifiable numbers, birth dates, driver's license numbers. From a security standpoint, the Equifax's part. It wasn't just one advantage of, there were several. The company failed to take the actions in the months leading up to the data breach. In the end, Equifax settled with the U.S. government and paid over $575 million to required fines. While there have been other data breaches large settlement with the U.S. government alerted companies to the implement preventative measures. These are just a couple of well-known industry. Knowing about them will help you Understanding different types of malware and communicate about security risks during As a future security professional, constantly actors' tactics and techniques will be a By noticing similar trends, patterns, and potential breach and limit future damage. Finally, understanding how security affects work you will do is so important! As the tactics of threat actors evolve, so do Having a solid understanding of core this field. One way to better understand into categories, called security domains. As of 2022, C-I-S-S-P has defined eight professionals. It's important to understand in one domain can result in negative It's also important to understand the domains your career goals and your role within an As you learn more about the elements of each to you more than the others. This domain may become a career path for you C-I-S-S-P defines eight domains in total, and and the next. In this video, we're going to management, asset security, security communication and network engineering. Let's start with the first domain. Security and risk management focuses on mitigation, compliance, business continuity, For example, security analysts may need to health information if a change is made to a Health Insurance Portability and The second domain is asset security. This domain focuses on securing digital and It's also related to the storage, data. When working with this domain, sure that old equipment is properly disposed confidential information. The third domain is security architecture and This domain focuses on optimizing data systems, and processes are in place. As a security analyst, you may be tasked with A firewall is a device used to monitor and traffic. Setting up a firewall correctly productivity. The fourth security domain is This domain focuses on managing and securing communications. As a security analyst, you your organization. Imagine discovering that hotspots. This could leave the organization To ensure communications are secure, you mitigate exposure. Maintaining an there are many moving parts. As an entry-level analyst, you will continue mitigate risks, to keep people and data You don't need to be an expert in all But, having a basic understanding of them professional. You're doing great! We have just introduced the first four discuss four more! See you soon! Welcome back. In the last video we introduced In this video, we'll introduce you to the access management, security assessment and development security. Familiarizing yourself with these domains of security. The domains outline and work together. Depending on the intersection of multiple domains or focus on Knowing where a particular role fits within for job interviews and work as part of a Let's move into the fifth domain. Identity and access management focuses on established policies to control and manage logical assets, such as networks and Validating the identities of employees and maintaining the organization's physical and For example, as a security analyst, you may keycard-access to buildings. The sixth domain is security assessment and This domain focuses on conducting security data, and conducting security audits to vulnerabilities. Security analysts may to make sure that users have the correct For example, access to payroll information analysts may be asked to regularly audit person can view employee salaries. The seventh domain is security operations. This domain focuses on conducting measures. Imagine that you, as a security device has been connected to your internal You would need to follow the organization's potential threat. The final, eighth domain This domain focuses on using secure coding guidelines that are used to create secure A security analyst may work with software practices are incorporated into the software If, for example, one of your partner teams asked to advise on the password policies or and managed. That ends our introduction to Challenge yourself to better understand each overall security of an organization. While they may still be a bit unclear to you be discussed in greater detail in the next See you there! This concludes our brief security attacks throughout history and Let's review what we've discussed. First we covered viruses, including the Brain these early forms of malware shaped the We also discussed how many attacks today are Understanding previous attacks is critical protect organizations and people from We also discussed social engineering and LoveLetter attack and the Equifax data These incidents showed the widespread impacts breaches in the digital age. Finally, we introduced C-I-S-S-P's eight categorize different areas of focus within I hope you are feeling confident about your Learning the history of security can allow industry. C-I-S-S-P's eight security domains security professionals. Remember, every security professional is Your unique point of view, professional So, the diversity you bring to the field you work to keep organizations and people Hi there--glad to have you back! You're half way done with the first course, In this section, we'll discuss how threats, risks, and vulnerabilities by controls, and ethics. To help you better understand how this we'll use an analogy. Imagine you want to plant a garden. You research, plan, prepare and purchase that could potentially present a risk to You establish a plan to pull weeds, spray for prevent issues or incidents. But as the days go by, unexpected problems The weather has been unpredictable, and infiltrate your garden. You start garden by installing a surveillance camera, with a canopy to keep your garden healthy Now that you have a better idea about the plants safe, you establish better policies safeguard your garden. In this way, security resembles a garden. It's an evolving industry that will to policies and procedures that help protect To that end, we'll introduce security they're important. We'll also cover core frameworks and controls, including the Triad, or C-I-A Triad. We'll end with a discussion about the ethics concerns in the security field. Evolving security practices may seem a little For example, I use security keys, which are a authentication to access my accounts. The keys ensure that only I can access my compromised. By improving confidentiality, accounts is intact. Having processes and procedures in place to decisions is important for any organization. I'm so excited to get started--and I hope you Imagine you're working as a security analyst activity on the network. You realize that you'll need to implement alerts from becoming serious incidents. But where do you start? As an analyst, organization's critical assets and risks. Then, you'll implement the necessary In this video, we'll discuss how security identify and manage risk. We'll also cover how to use security Security frameworks are guidelines used for threats to data and privacy. Security frameworks provide a structured lifecycle. The security lifecycle is a standards that define how an organization guidelines, and meets regulatory compliance There are several security frameworks that organizational and regulatory compliance The purpose of security frameworks includes information - known as P-I-I - securing weaknesses, managing organizational risks, Frameworks have four core components and manage potential risks. The first core component is identifying and For example, an organization may have a goal Protection Regulation law, also known as G-D-P-R is a data protection law established their personal data. A security analyst may an organization is out of compliance with The second core component is setting For example, when implementing guidelines to may need to develop new policies for how to The third core component of security processes. In the case of G-D-P-R, a company may help design procedures to ensure data requests. An example of this type of request is when a profile information. The last core component of security results. As an example, you may monitor your potential security issue affecting G-D-P-R officer. Now that we've introduced the four tie them all together. Frameworks allow security team to document, implement, and been created. It's essential for an process because it directly affects the work Next, we'll discuss security controls. Security Controls are safeguards designed to For example, your company may have a complete a privacy training to reduce the As a security analyst, you may use a track which employees have completed this Security frameworks and controls are vital to organizations and ensuring that everyone is risk. Understanding their purpose and how organization's security goals and protect In the following videos, we'll discuss some analysts need to be aware of to minimize Hi, welcome back! Previously, we discussed frameworks and In this video, you'll learn about SPECIFIC can voluntarily use to minimize risks to Let's get started! The C-I-A triad is a organizations consider risk when setting up C-I-A stands for confidentiality, integrity, Confidentiality means that only authorized For example, strict access controls that to data must be put in place to ensure Integrity means the data is correct, To maintain integrity, security professionals encryption to safeguard data from being Availability means data is accessible to As an example, a director may have more manager because directors usually oversee Let's define a term that came up during our An asset is an item perceived as having value And value is determined by the cost For example, an application that stores numbers or bank accounts, is a valuable It carries more risk and therefore requires website that shares publicly available news As you may remember, earlier in the course we Now, we'll discuss a specific framework Institute of Standards and Technology: the the NIST C-S-F. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is a standards, guidelines, and best practices to It's important to become familiar with this baseline to manage short and long-term risk. Managing and mitigating risks AND protecting are key goals for security professionals. Understanding the different motives a threat organization's most valuable assets is Some of the most dangerous threat actors to They're the MOST dangerous because they and know where to find it. In order to reduce this type of risk, principle of availability, as well as frameworks, to ensure staff members can only jobs. Threat actors originate from all security professionals helps organizations A variety of perspectives can assist the impact of malicious activity. That concludes our introduction to the CIA to develop processes to secure organizations You may be asked in an interview if you know Or you may be asked to explain how they're In either case, throughout this program more about them and apply what we've Coming up, we'll discuss the ethics of See you soon! In security, new technologies For every new security incident or risk, the For example, imagine that you're working as received a high risk alert. You investigate the alert and discover data You work diligently to identify who made the friends from work. What do you do? Ethically, as a security professional your security and confidentiality. While it's normal to want to protect a question may be, your responsibility and protocols you've been trained to follow. In many cases, security teams are entrusted than other employees. Security professionals must respect that Security ethics are guidelines for making professional. As another example, if you as access to payroll data and can give yourself so, does that mean you should? The answer is no. You should never abuse the with. Let's discuss ethical principles that for mitigating risks. These are confidentiality, privacy Let's begin with the first ethical principle, Earlier we discussed confidentiality as part confidentiality can be applied to ethics. As a security professional, you'll encounter P-I-I. It's your ethical duty to keep that For example, you may want to help out a outside of properly documented channels. However, this ethical violation can result the loss of your professional reputation, friend. The second ethical principle to Privacy protection means safeguarding For example, imagine you receive a personal requesting a colleague's home phone number. Your manager explains that they can't access need to discuss an urgent matter with that As a security analyst, your role is to follow which in this example, state that employee and should NEVER be accessed or shared in So, accessing and sharing the employee's In situations like this, it can be difficult So, the best response is to adhere to the organization. A third important ethical Laws are rules that are recognized by a For example, consider a staff member at a P-I-I, and S-P-I-I for compliance. The staff member has files with confidential but the staff member is late for a meeting. Instead of locking the files in a designated member's desk, unsupervised. Upon the employee's return, the files are The staff member has just violated multiple were unethical and illegal since their private patient and hospital data. As you enter the security field, remember are attacker's tactics and techniques. Because of this, security professionals must respond to attacks. Having a strong sense of ethics can guide processes and procedures are followed to You are now better prepared to understand and managing risk. Let's review what we've We discussed security frameworks and controls procedures that protect organizations and We also discussed core components of goals and establishing guidelines to achieve Then, we introduced specific frameworks and NIST C-S-F, and how they are used to manage And finally, we discussed security ethics, such as confidentiality, privacy You're almost there, only one more section to Coming up, you'll learn about common tools analysts to protect organizational Hope you're as excited as I am to keep going! Welcome to the final section of this course! Here, we'll be introducing tools and in the security field. They are essential for monitoring security efficiency by automating tasks. Although we're only introducing these the program you'll have opportunities to use In the following videos, you'll learn about SIEM, tools. You'll also be introduced to other tools analyzers. Then, you'll learn about the tasks that are initiated through programming For me, SQL is one of the most useful tools. It allows me to explore all the different team to analyze the data for trends. Take your time going through the videos and Also know that these tools will be discussed practice them firsthand, later in the While every organization has their own set of learn to use on the job, this program will will help you succeed in the security Let's get started! As mentioned earlier, If you identify a leak, the color or shape doesn't matter. What IS important is home, by using the tools available to you. As an entry-level security analyst, you'll can use to mitigate potential risks. In this video, we'll discuss the primary security tools. And later in the program, practice using them. Before discussing tools are the source of data that the tools we'll A log is a record of events that occur within Examples of security related logs include computers or accessing web-based services. Logs help security professionals identify breaches. The first tools we'll discuss are tools, or SIEM tools. A SIEM tool is an application that collects activities in an organization. The acronym S-I-E-M may be pronounced as sim program. SIEM tools collect real-time - or analysts to identify potential breaches as Imagine having to read pages and pages of threats. Depending on the amount of data, it SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an specific types of risks and threats. Next, let's go over examples of commonly used Splunk is a data analysis platform, and Splunk Enterprise is a self-hosted tool used organization's log data. Another SIEM tool is Google's Chronicle. Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool that Cloud-native means that Chronicle allows for Both of these SIEM tools, and SIEMs in then analyze and filter that data to allow to potential security threats. As a security analyst, you may find yourself and patterns, perform incident analysis, or Depending on your organization's SIEM setup function may differ, but ultimately they are Other key tools that you will use in your have hands-on opportunities to use later in protocol analyzers. A playbook is a manual that provides details respond to an incident. Playbooks, which vary from one organization a security incident before, during, and Playbooks can pertain to security or many other organizational tasks that require Another tool you may use as a security called packet sniffer. A packet sniffer is a tool designed to network. Common network protocol analyzers As an entry-level analyst, you don't have to As you continue through this certificate you'll continuously build your understanding assess, and mitigate risks. As we discussed previously, organizations use playbooks, and packet sniffers - to better threats. But those aren't the only tools in Analysts also use programming languages and tasks. In this video, we'll introduce you to operating system. All of which you'll have certificate program. Organizations can use instructions for a computer to execute Programming allows analysts to complete degree of accuracy and efficiency. It also helps reduce the risk of human performing the work manually. Now that you're aware of what programming specific and related operating system called Python. Linux is an open-source - or Unlike other operating systems you may be Linux relies on a command line as the Linux itself is not a programming language, commands between the user and the operating You'll learn more about Linux later in the A common use of Linux for entry-level understand what's occurring in a system. For example, you might find yourself using investigating uncommonly high network Next, let's discuss SQL. S-Q-L stands for structured query language. SQL is a programming language used to create, database. A database is an organized There may be millions of data points in a So an entry-level security analyst would use retrieve specific information. The last programming language we'll introduce Security professionals can use Python to time-consuming, and that require a high As a future analyst, it's important to may be somewhat different, based on their The main point is that you're familiar with will show employers that you have the protect the organization and the people it You're doing great! Later in the course languages, and you'll practice using these That completes the introduction to security In this section of the course, we covered We also discussed how SIEM tools are used by tasks. Then, we discussed other tools such also called packet sniffers. Finally, we introduced the Linux operating Python. Remember, the tools we discussed But having a basic understanding of these field and progress in your career! Congratulations on completing the first We've come so far and covered so much about I find cybersecurity to be exciting because solve, and the work of protecting our users Before we move on, let's take a moment to First, we introduced core security concepts, matters. We also discussed what an skills related to the role. Then, we transitioned to eight security management, asset security, and security Next, we highlighted security frameworks and Specifically, the CIA triad model and the Finally, we explored common tools and analysts, such as SIEMs, playbooks, SQL, and I hope you're proud of the work you've done No matter what direction you take in the lays the foundation for the next phase of And, as you move through this program, further. In the next course, my colleague the topics introduced in this course. Hi! I'm Ashley and I will be guiding you program. We'll discuss security domains and I'm so glad I was able to be here for the You're off to a great start. I'm excited for you to reach your goal of