Where we left off yesterday. And try to get it if I can get to the essence. Of this tension between judicial power. And judicial restraint. Um, you have testified. And stop me if I get this wrong that judges Should stay in their lane. And I think it's fair to say that one of your definitions of Staying in your lane is that judges don't make parts. And my right so far. Yes, that is correct, Senator Then how do you explain? Or help me understand? The farm. We have a judicially created doctrine. With no textual basis either in the Constitution or a statute. Called substantive due process. And through substantive due process. Our federal courts. That's just Narrow down the United States Supreme Court has given itself the authority. To read into the Constitution. On a enumerated. On mentioned. Rights. Not read the Constitution and say, Well, there it is Freedom of speech. But these are unmentioned. On enumerated. Isn't that extra making policy? Senator. This Supreme Court interprets for visions of the Constitution. And There are provisions of the Constitution that require interpretation because they don't Um, just On the text in every circumstance. Answer the question before the court so Due process. What does that mean? And the Supreme Court has the words due process Do Appear in the text of the Constitution. And the question is what what is covered by that provision, the Supreme Court sorry I'm just going ahead. But when they do it Aren't they making policy? Well, Senator, um The role of the judiciary is too Interpret the law. To the extent that somebody argued to the court Um That there's been a violation of the due process clause of the Constitution. It is within the role of the court. To determine What That means. Whether the person is correct that What Happened with respect to their case violated the due process clause. And so there's An interpretive function. Bet is a part of the judicial Function. Here He let me shave and put a fan or point on this. It's not the right so much. It's it's how the right is created. Twice yesterday. Whether you think that on enumerated These are enumerated unmentioned rights. Ought to be decided by the people through their elected representatives versus the federal judiciary. Let's take two rights that I talked about yesterday the right to assisted suicide. The right of a transgender woman to participate in women's sports. Um I can see how I'm not predicting that it will. But I could see how the court Either through the due process costs. Or the Ninth Amendment. Could Find those rights and the constitution. Um, as we talked about yesterday. The Supreme Court has looks to me like they've adopted. The the The policy of there is no test for a fundamental right. Um There's several tests. And in Obergefell. Justice Kennedy cited with approval. Justice Harlan's dissent in Oh Vielman, which says there's no test will go case by case. And the tip. But I know they're tests like I'll get the language here somewhere. I've got it. I don't want to look it up, but Implicit in the concept of order to liberty, and you've talked about that. Here's a new one that Justice Kennedy talked about. In Obergefell, he said. Inherent in the concept of individual autonomy. Won't I can see how if the court with five votes wanted to say Even though the right to assisted suicide Are the right of a transgender woman to participate in women's sports. I can see how somebody You're smart. You could write an opinion and say that's That's inherent in the concept of individual time. And and maybe again. It's not the right It's who's supposed to decide. And that's where the judicial restraint company I mean, don't you think? That the values of ordinary Americans And their ability to side these issues are just as good as Knows of five members of the Supreme Court. Thank you, Senator. There are, um Policy determinations that Are made by vote in Absolutely in the democratic process. Um people. Get to decide things. The question and the difficulty Is when you have a constitutional scheme of government and you have a constitution that Um Does protect Certain rights. And it does so in A circumstance in which the those rights whatever they are numerator door or not, are Um Might be things that the people Have disagreed with that's the tension. That That although we have democracy as we do, and people vote And should absolutely Um We also have a constitution that Protects certain rights against this sort of majority will about those things. But the rub, of course is I agree with everything you said. But the rub is these are on announced on enumerated rights. Get ridden Constitution. Yes, um And what troubles me? I'm not saying I disagree with all the rights of the Supreme Court is created. But I don't think we talk honestly enough about how those rights Should be adjudicated. For example, I'm not asking you to comment on this. I think you already have. But when President Biden announced your appointment. Or at least shortly before he talked about. I want to judge that's Going to read new rights into the constitution through the night amendment. Um And I'm sure some Americans are saying that's a good thing. But you've got a lot of Americans going. Hey, wait a minute. Supreme Court hadn't elected. I am. Couple years ago. Chief of staff, Ron claim, wrote an opinion piece. And he said he hopes and I'm going to quote Um That quote the Supreme. I hope the Supreme Court will intervene whenever the nation's conscience. And laws need a joke in a progressive direction. That's possible tonight. And you agree with that statement. Do I agree with the statement that that's policy making or I'm sorry what the chief said. Senator. That's a political statement made by someone in the executive branch. Um, I'm I'm not going to push it, Push it and get it. It's not a good time to make chief of staff in areas Well, I just hope you'll keep this in mind Judge if you confirmed I mean, this is what judicial strengthen Australia's all about, and I think part of the division and our country. Um America's a big, wide open, diverse Sometimes dysfunctional, but Sometimes imperfect, but basically good country, but we we We have different values. That's part of our diversity, and I think our country works because of our system of federalism. Um The values in Louisiana may be different from the values in Maine. And if you don't like what's going on in nine and you don't like what's going on Louisiana? You can move. But as our federal government has gotten bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger Um what? What? What? What? What we have is what is developed. At least here in Washington is this managerial level elite? And I'm when I say the manager lead I mean, I mean the entrenched politicians. I guess I shouldn't say entrenched because that's Pajaro tive. But we do have a lot of politicians that have been here a long time. Um They're members of the media that are part of the manager, elite members of the administrative state. Their academics that are part of it. There are lot of corporate phone ease that are part of it. And many people in this this Kabul think they are smarter and more virtuous than the American people. And that they ought to Set forth. How people should live their lives. People should shut up. And just do what they're told. And if they behave, maybe the manager will lead will let them eat meat occasionally. And I think that's part of the vision. Our country. And I think to some extent The Supreme Court. I don't want to say contributes to it, but it needs to be mindful of this. I'll give you another example. In this case bothers me. I'm want you to explain it. Um, I think Lindsey talked to you about it, but I don't know that I want to hear you explain it. It's make the road New York versus McLagan. You remember that one? I do. Here's the way I read. Congress. We In a Rare moment of consensus. Gave Diaz DHS, the soul and unreviewable. That's not my words in the statute, the soul and unreviewable right to determine when illegal immigrants. Should be removed on an expedited basis. The Department of Health of Homeland Security taking the statute. Decided to use its soul and unreviewable authority and discretion. To state that we're going to have expedited removal of all M illegal immigrants who've been in the U. S less than two years. And you said no. And not only that view issued. A universal injunction. And I don't understand why He talked about judicial activism. And I don't see how clear or Congress could have been. Now the D C circuit reversed you, but I'm going to hear your reasons for for issuing that nationwide injunction. Thank you, senator for allowing me to address that decision in that case. The statute at issue. Gave discretion to DHS to determine the amount of time that a person needed to have been in the country. Between zero and 24 months. In order to be subject to expedited removal, as opposed to The normal removal process in the immigration system. The statute said that DHS had sole discretion, meaning no. I interpreted meaning no other agency was to have the authority to make that determination. And the statute said. That DHS is determination in that regard. Was unreviewable meaning? It was final once. This is how I'm terrible. I'm interpreting, um, meaning that once the decision was made It was over. Nobody else gets to review the court doesn't get to say, um No, You're wrong. If you pick 12 months, for example, or 16 months or 24 months, as they did in this case The statute did not speak to whether Congress intended with that grant of Very Broad discretion. To exclude another statute that Congress has passed that directs agencies win Congress gives them discretion. The other statute, the EPA directs agencies as to how they go about making decisions that Congress has given them. The authority to make the EPA is a procedural statute, it says two agencies. When Congress gives you discretion to make a determination you have to do so in a way that's not arbitrary and capricious. You have to use your expertise in certain kinds of decisions. You have to use notice and comment in order to get information. It's procedural. The claim that was being made in this case, as I read it and understood it. Was not that the agency couldn't pick 24 months because obviously, Congress has said in the statute you can pick between zero and 24 months, the claim that was being made Is that the agency picked 24 months arbitrarily. In violation of Congress's direction about how you go about exercise was violated. Yes, the claim was an ape a violation. So no one was saying that the statute was violated in the sense that the agency did something that it couldn't have done per the statute picking 24 months. They said the EPA was violated because This is the claim that they were making sure because The agency did no analysis. The agency did no expertise. The agency did not evaluate. Okay, if you've been here six months. These are the kinds of ties that you have. If you've been here 18 months, right? The agency didn't do anything essentially, according to the claimants. The agency heard, the president say We're going to now do 24 months when everybody else all of the other administrations at this point, because I've only got two. Yes, I'm sorry. All right? Is that what I hear you saying is telling me if I'm wrong? Yes. They didn't file the EPA in your opinion, which you have to do, even though Congress passed the statute Well, no. Because Do things. One is the EPA under DC longstanding DC Circuit Case law is presumptively applicable to every situation in which an agency is exercising its discretion. So that's the first thing it's always there as a background rule. So, the D. C circuit has said Congress has to be pretty clear when it decides to exclude the EPA When it's saying, I'm giving you discretion, but you can do this. Arbitrarily. You can do it, however you want and in other places in the immigration statute that sets up expedited removal, Congress says we are excluding the EPA. We're telling you that with respect to this kind of discretion, the EPA doesn't apply. I've got so here I had these two statutes. And there are canons of statutory interpretation that says that you should try to give effect to all of the will of Congress. You should try to read statutes so that they go together in a way if you have these two directives, and there's also D C circuit case law stop you all right? Because I'm I got it. Yeah, and let me just say I agree that the D C circuit reversed me. They disagreed with my interpretation, and that's the way that our system works. Masters last question. This is this is a question about basically your experience. Can we agree? That if On. Emphasize if Cocaine is cocaine. That Crack cocaine. Is equal in in its its danger. To pattern cocaine. You're with me. I think so. Why is not more dangerous than the other if that's true. Then the sentencing rules ought to be the same. Okay. Policy matter for Congress, you could make them differently. If you wanted to this world want to ask you based on your experience on the bench of decades? Yes. Is cracking more cocaine, more dangerous than powder or less of the same senator. That's a policy determination. That's what policymakers do. They look at the evidence related to these things, and they decide what's more dangerous. What have you seen? What should I have seen evidence through the sentencing commission that the two compositions are chemically similar, um, so similar as to be indistinguishable, Um, and the commission for very Many years as a policy making body. Indicated its view that they should be, uh, equivalent and lobbied Congress concerning that Congress made a determination about in the policy realm. Making it 18 to 1 instead of 100 to 1, which is what it had previously