Today's episode is about Depeche We'll be looking at the drum Coincidentally the drum so there will be something in whether you want to learn how to or you just want Our focus is not so much on we want to understand what makes these So let's get started. In 1981 Depeche Mode released which also marked the end of the Vince This was before Martin Gore and steered the band's sound into the This record is full of And a prime example is the album's which became a top 10 hit in the UK. It's a well-known fact the Korg KR-55 drum That was a preset rhythm box very much But you won't actually get very That would still leave half which were probably made with the So we thought it might be fun to entirely with our trusty If you want to follow along you can grab these The link is in the So yes, there are only four and each of them has a very distinct role. The Kick Drum is of A steady stream of quarter notes. I mean this is danceable On the very opposite end of the frequency That spot is often occupied by the Hi-Hat. In this song it's a very We went for something inbetween, that makes a very short bright Very unsurprisingly our by a Snare backbeat on the two and four. Simple but it works extremely Let's mute the Shaker In the original this is kind of But a Hand Clap will probably also do. Just make sure it's not so their rhythmic figures can interact with But this sound's job is not only to but also to introduce variation Look out for me programming There's even one where a step Ooh, advanced stuff. Nine years and six albums This time Depeche Mode worked better known as &quot;Flood&quot;. The resulting album is what many It is influenced by the past the future of electronic music itself. It also contained &quot;Enjoy the Silence&quot;, Depeche Mode have often cited and it really isn't hard to draw &quot;We Are The Robots&quot; or the The drum track on the other hand It's ever evolving, there's always During his talk at Soundedit Festival 2011 Flood explained how he and Alan from a serene ballad into an For the beat their approach basically was While he obviously didn't name my money is on New Order's And when I hear &quot;New Order&quot; I immediately So we'll be building our track One reason why the DMX fits so well, apart is because it has three different Hi-Hat The Open Hat The accented Closed And on step 10 we place Sounds a bit shorter and lower. Reduce the decay... And we're done. You'll probably want to high pass but for now we'll leave them as is. Kicks on every beat of course. These stay the same And... you probably guessed This pattern gets and on the first one we'll add And to make those Snares even fatter we're That's also what New Order Be careful with the Start low and slowly turn it up until it There's a very interesting And according to &quot;Who Sampled&quot; Depeche Mode took it from a song Ten City's &quot;That's The Way Love Is&quot;. The Deep House Mix/Extended Version To verify that claim we For our version we used a 909... Plus a 707 and 727 combo. A very nice Conga phrase. We have an unaccented and the Conga Mutes And both together. A pretty standard 90s house pattern. But it doesn't sound like the This was a tough nut to crack since we found So I experimented. A lot. And here's what I came up with. Add a volume shaper... A 16th note delay plus Kill the last 16th of the loop... And finally add some dirt, for Use a low cut so it On top of this the but without the Snare and Clap And we get a tiny but powerful It all sounds a bit pitched down so I think they may have before they slowed Here's a simple trick to make Add a 16th note delay. Just one repeat, but experiment with This Shaker part does a Just alternate between This adds some Two super complex Snare fills. One even with two It's crazy to think that two of Depeche Mode's &quot;Enjoy the Silence&quot; The latter has been covered by many On this track on guitars even more which helped turn the The training wheels come off. difficult drum patterns There are a few accounts on how the Regardless of whether it was stomping on a or sampling all that, arranging it and we'll recreate it in a way with everyday drum sounds. First off: We need 1/8 so set your sequencer A 3/4 or 75% tempo multiplier. That gives you 1/8 triplets. And we need 12 steps per page. If you want a then check out our Drum Patterns Explained and our Drum Machine The first part is the iconic main drum loop To get a natural amount an acoustic drum plugin These react dynamically to velocities. And repeat hits will give But that's optional, you can do this Kicks first. But we want a clear Then on top of that And a High Tom. These ascending Toms bring some And because both the accent on the Kick One thing you can hear very is a clicking sound. We'll use a Rim Click to introduce Softer hits at the beginning... Full power on step 7... And declining again And for even more clickiness we'll You can really see that Without those Rim Clicks They give it a lot of And now we're going to that makes it sound a As you can see we have a few bursts of Let's use microtiming to spread Not by much. We don't want to we just want to make those compressed Very much like a flam on a Snare. Let's listen to it with and A few of the sounds in the so let's complete the phrase It's interesting how these but that's caused entirely by the Part 2 is a variation of Part 1 We want to repeat the double So let's copy To step 12. Just before But this double hit sounds too weak. We want it to sound like so let's extend the This will get a bit confusing because and the rest just overflows To make this a lot more and put the project Now the sequencer neatly Okay, so in bar 2 we'll To the beginning. Let's hear it as a loop. Nice. We want these constant double so I'll copy this entire page... Two times. This will definitely To make it less monotone we can The plan is that the Kicks Beginning here Kill the Kicks... Kill the Toms and Rim Clicks... Kill the Kicks... Kill the Toms and Rim Clicks... And so on and so forth. Very nice, now we got an ebb Note that compared to part emphasis from the On top of this we'll On this track we have a And each of them has two The Tom Rimshot sounds a so this gives us six different You don't have to use six You can also get away with pitching Just use this as a rough guide. And now for the secret A Snare. Properly dosed the Snare gives the A quick before and after. If you want you can pan the fill from one And now in context. For part 3 we'll again re-use part 1, but By half a bar. The double hit is now and the emphasis lies This makes for really interesting it's alternated with If your sequencer doesn't have that but shifted by half a bar. This is the &quot;Reach Very straightforward. And much Just some alternating And maybe a little less And on top of that goes A very simple Snare fill. We still have our second drum set This becomes much more interesting Nothing cuts through a mix You can easily create these disco zaps Putting it through a And animating that We'll put some of so you can zap away On top of part 3 we usually The Zaps on top of And sometimes there are also these This could be a Clap or a Snare. It doesn't matter as long it's and lots of noise at the end. We used the mysterious Linn Pitched it up... Added a transient make it more dense And finally we used an EQ to carve out some Be sure to trim this sound so that it ends That will make it feel really snappy. These go either on the two or on the four. Yes, another Tom fill. The Toms at the end that's an ascending But there is this short And those are But only the last one The usual strategy is to split and a 32nd note pattern. So let's do just that. Two pages... running at double speed. And some more A raspy metallic Hi-Hat. Here's one I whipped up with the Syntakt Pan it to the right. And here's your yoga exercise for the day. Breathe in... And out. At a relaxing speed of 130 BPM. In 1/8 triplets of course. (Hoo-hoo-hoo ha-ha-ha hoo-hoo-hoo ha) (Hoo-hoo-hoo ha-ha-ha hoo-hoo-hoo ha) (Hoo-hoo-hoo ha-ha-ha hoo-hoo-hoo ha) Okay now I feel a little lightheaded... But I think it's time to A big shoutout to all of our Patrons. Thanks to your support we