How to change your email address on Gmail. Hi, everyone. askleo.com. This is actually How to change your email address Well, the problem, of course, I'll describe why and give Why can't you just change your email Well, Your email address A different email address You can't change your email address That means that everything in your account is not transferred over when Everything in your account A different email address, That's what it boils down to. And that's how you get If you want to change your email address, you end up needing to create Once you've done so, you have a new account the email address that you But it's not quite what you wanted, the email address without changing losing all their email, They just want it to be It doesn't work like that. When you open a new account with a new email address, you now have two accounts, address and your new account How do you manage this? Well, I two workarounds that might make it easy-ish to deal with having two accounts. Workaround number one, Like Thunderbird or of a number of other What you can do with those programs Configure it to access your old account number one, configure it to access your you now have all of your email You still have two accounts, you still have two email addresses, from a single place, the desktop Now, there's another approach that is perhaps a a little bit looking to do, but it requires a little Let's go over here to Gmail and we'll Here we are in Gmail. I'm not going to switch to Chrome, recently, so we'll just go ahead and The feature that I'm going to use account to check the email Essentially, it basically centralizes I do this constantly. In fact, it's how I manage Yes, I have a personal Gmail account, but those Gmail addresses are I don't use them publicly. What I use, of course, Com. to check email from that account How do you do that? Let me show you. Here we are in my AskLeo test@gmail. account. What we need to do is click Click on See All settings. This is buried in All settings. The item to click on is Now, you can see here that there are several, several different features The one that we care about is this. Check mail from other accounts. You would click on Add a Mail Account. You would specify the email address In my case, I would have leo@askleo.com You might have specified gmail.com. You can do either Honestly, I'm not sure what I've now done both. They seem to work about the same. If you link accounts with Gmailify, well, here and treats them both like In our case, of course, they are. But if you're doing a different account, of course, then you could I've typically done POP 3, which will All it really does is fetches your email from that other account and then lets you to basically read that email and in a Up to you. I honestly don't have I'm more familiar with POP3, to approach it, especially if I'm not going to go any further in this example because I just don't have The next would be to specify Now, the issue, of course, is that if you have two-factor Gmail doesn't know how to deal What that means is that you have to create That happens in the Gmail You can simply go to settings for your account and search for app password, and the steps required Your regular password will not work if you But once you have configured your new the one we currently have open here, which is what we're configuring here then all of a sudden, all of your email Now, what if you want to be able to send Well, if you don't, you're done. If you're truly looking for a change and you no longer intend to send messages You're now sending all of your email and still getting email that was sent to Fantastic. However, if you want to be able to send We'll click on the gear icon again and go back to All settings, Accounts and Import, here called Send Mail As, in this case, the new email Once again, you would click You would specify the email address which in your case would be Com was, and then you would move on. The next step then, of course, will be to confirm that you've got access that you actually are the proper Otherwise, well, anybody could configure this to send from your email account, The next step is, of course, to send a verification, get the number, The step after that, which I'm not going to go to, then Now, if you have used Gmailify, in both cases, you may not need However, it is possible that using POP3 or in this send configuration, and the ports required Since you're dealing with just a Gmail account, are, and it will probably just import or If not, you can search for the pop three settings for Gmail, and it should After all is said and done, after you've Well, you have two email accounts, You can sign in Com. However, if you want to manage them then using either a desktop program that's or if you configure your new account you've got a single Now, there is one super important We've been talking about Gmail. We've been talking about email, specifically, your email address, But your email address identifies your and many people have much more associated You may have YouTube or Google Drive or of different Google services all None of this changes any of that. All of your old photos, for example, if you were using Google photos, If you want to move them That's true for any other Google service. Like I said, YouTube, your favorites, your playlists, Drive, the files that you Do be aware that changing your Gmail address not only but it also creates you a second account may be using associated Hope that helps a little bit. Hope that clarifies exactly what it For updates, for comments, for links related to the topic askleo.com/167066. askleo.com.