writing to me to make a release about it. I at least 10 releases and mentioned that in various searches for artifacts around the world. The secret weapon of the Reich, but in fact An organization that is number of myths, legends and the organizations of the Third Reich. I myself heard and Archival Institute. And it was such a situation, invited teachers from Moscow State University. It at different times from antiquity to the present by a teacher (I don't remember his last name) was a front-line soldier, he took Berlin. And we students got that he participated in the storming And there he saw strange corpses - they were dressed in SS uniforms, but with over these uniforms. It was not clear where they came from, there were several corpses. the version that the bodies of Buddhist monks of the Reich Chancellery. What were they doing there? How did they Of course, we'll never know about it Tibet is obvious and I will tell you about it later. this is an organization that was declared trials, because all these stories paranormal abilities, telekinesis and engaged in are one story, there will be of the story is prisoners, these are experiments on blood clotting, so forth. That is, a huge this organization. I will also tell you about this today. Ahnenerbe? The history of the Third Reich is heavily involved in the documentary footage from the Nuremberg processions in the form of swastikas, you will see how is, of course, it all resembles of mystical, ritual action. This is visible different from everything that happened in other the Soviet Union, nor in the United States of Germany - it was. When you look at these or at the frames of any other chronicle, you very mystical, occult action your eyes. Where did all this come from? the German nation has always been close to philosophy, we can talk about the way of life. In fact, tends to the dark side. Not even to the dark, The Germans were no exception here, but that they stood out among other European in the days of the fall of the empire, had occultism in full bloom. From we also had a craze for and so forth. Recently, I have been cooking for my family very little time to prepare for example, I choose steaks from Indilight. a lot of protein, much less fat several types of steaks at once. My steaks. It is very convenient, they are all already 15 minutes to cook. And the marinade is perfectly matched. They not only reveal the taste, but also put them on the grill and open the picnic must also suited to this. My friends, . I highly recommend steaks from Indilight 1918. Germany has lost and Germany needs an different roads, she could have taken the Communist occultism was quite 1918. An organization called the of the Atlanteans will be developed, it will receive rebirth in Hitler's Germany. Well, is such an occultist, mystic, conspiracy Thule society, which includes Munich who are interested in, seeking to touch society? Why was it created at all? Atlantis sank, they place of Tula. Which is unclear where closer to Greenland. Somewhere in Scandinavia. they gave birth of course you watched &quot;17 moments of spring&quot;, this reference is &quot;true Aryan, Nordic completely incomprehensible to me what this means. Here to the Thule society, appeared from the Atlantean fathers on earth. And the Germans came from this huge, most important Nordic descendants. And the search for these roots and these The society was certainly racist, because then there Wirth. And he is writing a work on the origin There is a Nordic race, it created everything it invented a culture. And then there was subhumans there, from blacks who adopted the Nordic language, incestuous relations with Humanity. Therefore, the Germans are this main dominant race and in order to preserve this purity of the race and in people on Earth, superhumans. And all the absolutely scientifically (in quotation marks) grounded pulled by the she quite seriously rolled and it cannot be said that it was a circle scammers or crazy people, although there were society in Thule. Absolutely not. Munich big industrialists and, in Otto Ran. I partially talked about him in the the Albigensian Wars. He was Montsegur, this is the last refuge of he clearly believed that the Holy Grail was Archaeologist. And thus to be imbued with these ideas of the the other hand, Germany is living in a state of mythology that we are very well. Then those who of the National Socialist Party Rudolf Hess got in there. How? name was Karl Haushofer, and Rudolf Hess Thule society, he really liked these the superiority of the German nation. And he got brought Hitler there and Hitler was very constant debate about whether used it. We will not look into this, is an absolutely finished scumbag and whether or being subject to some kind of mysticism, The main thing is that he got there too. he also got into this Thule society, and at the bow of this occultism and the rise of the Workers' Party of Germany is being organized. At you look at the swastika, we now which we associate with Hitler's of course, this is a sign that is older than Buddhist texts, that is, is still present. If you get will see that the swastika is used in well-being, prosperity. And the society of Thule and then it migrates of Germany. And at some point, what we know as of Germany circle, inscribed in a red banner, it was becomes the standard of Hitler's then by the state standard. It is also a completely pulled not from the depths of German philosophy, The Thule society is somehow Olympus is going on in parallel. And all these the turn of the 20s, our main, Heinrich Himmler, gets into begins to look for a foothold, begins he was a Catholic, at some point that religion does not give him anything, and so he he gets into the circle, into the crowd of the these ideas. Himmler is a man whom the Holocaust, as the main person who the extermination of people, for the final falls just like honey on his lips, the German nation dominates there, publish the newspaper Beobachter in Munich,, the main printing organ of Nazi militant anti-Semitic leaflet. It simply the body of the German nation, we lost the war Here. Well, all the nonsense that you absolutely written and justified there. created it. Himmler likes it wildly, he childhood, apparently, was exposed to the occult in his head, or someone suggested it began to feel like of Henry the Fowler. It was a German for the first time. And so he will continue further where it will lead. In general, here are two mystical and closely connected, because (let's one party. talking, is holding an exhibition &quot;The Heritage with all the artifacts that were the dominance of the Germanic civilization. Everything. And there appears the first grain that Europe, it strangled the Germans, because pagan pre-Christian ones, the nation to be discussed. Himmler visits this already 1935, the Nazis are in power and Himmler is already he has this exhibition and the society &quot;Heritage of under his wing and says: &quot;Listen, this is Himmler? Because it's easy to come and a Nordic character and therefore we are It is necessary to bring a scientific basis under this. And which is still looking for the beliefs of the ancient Europe, this Ahnenerbe society for Himmler's him under his wing, Wirth becomes driving hand in hand. My friends! Now I will give you one very the daily routine and spend time I read at home in between To be honest, time flies by unnoticed. Besides, can read and even listen to them wherever and whenever MTS. I have been using Stroki for a long time, because there is a classical and modern literature, you them in audio format and share quotes with this is very convenient. All the most application. From the last thing I read the person with whom I have been working for the last 15 This is a twisted detective story in which friends began to disappear around him and plunge into the past of the main character and of what is happening around him. In general, I will not yourself. It is in the Stroki, in the Originals read this book absolutely for free. free access to a &quot;Mnogo&quot; subscription for 30 each interesting book is followed by another go ahead and download the app right At the same moment, this who is the Minister of Agriculture, gets to the work &quot;Blood and Soil&quot;, where he talks about about the true bonds of the German spirit, necessary to make the necessary digression. On subject to mysticism, but probably to a completely exposed to it: the reincarnation order of the SS, the monastic brotherhood - this will appear of course, we cannot say that and believed in it with their sick brains but a huge number of scammers appear these mystical practices work? If they see that start selling it to him. And customers are modern life, big big sinologists who surround them with this whole and so on and so forth. Nowadays we developed even more. Here is one example, Himmler's entourage. He is on the one hand, on the other hand he is a patient of a tells everyone that his family Here is his family from Thor leads, who stood with likes this story very much, because Wiligud a huge number of magical artifacts that give power, telekinesis. And Himmler begins to support justifies all this from the point of view of story with runes. If you look, are Scandinavian runes, which were very common in Germany, they not only in the SS, they were various regiments. And all this bloomed not just some ancient symbol. Himmler really liked it to connect two runes of the Sig and this on the on the other hand - the strongest amulet from everything. believe it and everything was fine until 1936. attacked Hermann He says that we are building a Atlanteans? What the hell is mysticism? What are you yes. The Aryan nation - I understand that. These are nonsense. You can tell Himmler generally reliable guy, because called him faithful Heinrich. He was an excellent knew how to play bureaucracy, knew how to play all these intrigues, Therefore, Hitler appreciated him, but he knew that he Well, let him do it separately from everything the Third Reich. Because you confuse criticism of Hitler. Henry Himmler at some end well and in 1937 he the head of Ahnenerbe himself. And of German ancestors into a that will cover all spheres of German Ahnenerbe becomes sheet there are departments that I will now of such departments. Just to show how spheres of German society. in the study of some cosmic bodies, nevertheless it was there. The department of biology, the improvement of the human body, and so forth. Department of Botany. Breeding and sheep. Department of Geology and Mineralogy, there were completely different stories, in order to build secret bunkers, of waters. In Abkhazia, Lake Ritsa, the war with the Soviet Union, in which water so good that the Germans were then keen on creating was great in their opinion. That's the kind of Who all over Germany, then all over the ancient Germans, dug up temples, weapons of war, agricultural implements in order to collect, the German nation. The department of German that German art was from ancient times, was quickly closed in 1938, of Heraldry. Well, how about the new elite without coats of arms, right? the eighth or tenth generation, they drew coats of arms. there is a story about how a talking about Aryans, blue-eyed, these ancients who defeated the Roman Empire, legions in the Teutoburg Forest. And you looks like a monkey in general, Hitler is also Aryans like that? You don't look on the other hand, we are Aryans in spirit.&quot; Well, of course, it's also such a department was created that. Department of Indo-German and The Germans were looking for fragments of this Aryan race in Finland, in the Baltic States. They proved Aryan proto-civilization. The Department which dealt with old caves, ancient cave Plant genetics, research departments of the power and mystical which can be applied in modern theories that swords were found in the the hand, you can reunite with your have been promoting it to themselves. The department of bulk inhabited hills is also an excavation that was conducted in Germany. that was conducted in Germany. And there they searched Department of Occult Sciences. It's clear what he H, which dealt with witches. And this is also interfered with the Third Reich. It was necessary to create pleasure and he sold it this is not Christianity, let's turn to burnt witches all over as proof that in fact people, and Christians burned them so that German spirituality, it disappeared. And so they a card file, 35 thousand witches were found burned years. The department of the expedition that was engaged who were engaged in research, they Well, plus the national departments that were Britain, and so on and so forth. That is, must introduce the Ahnenerbe as propaganda, religion, children's, school and cells. Thus, we will be the ideological base of the Third Reich. In fact, say this, Himmler saw himself SS structure, which turned from army. And he created his own religion, he black order in order to then the Soviet Union. Here we will win the war, manage it all. his rule. Returning to the Tibetan Chancellery or not, I do not know, and in general, we know for sure is that the SS was led by Ernst Schafer. A man who was And in 1938, this still an important point here, one Dalai Lama has died, and role. And there was a time of &quot;dalailamanessess&quot; (Excuse me are welcomed there, in the city of Lhasa, in the capital of They show them ancient artifacts. a connection between the Tibetan civilization of who are descendants of the German things happen there, they collect they take out high-altitude 60 days in very poor soils be planted in the territories of the Reich. They are engaged in obsessed with this. Here there is an Aryan they go and measure these Tibetan skulls of Germans are all pieces of this large called the Aryans. They are arranging a the end of the war. Permanent Lhasa-Berlin radio Shambhala, this is a secret place where if you superpowers, move in a attack from a parallel world, then go at once. That is, they are completely they did not find any Shambhala, but the expedition is old manuscripts, presented dishes, never got there, in my opinion, he died on the way. shot, which is called &quot;Mysterious Hitler's Germany. And there all these Tibetan lamas, all there is a part of our German nation. Here, we also have this aggression and space - it's in our blood. This story expedition in 1938 artifacts of this old civilization. The third returned, went to Iceland. They are also part of the German nation. Runes, and so forth. In addition, well, in the SS was taught absolutely was taught the reading of runes and the study of Edde. which I once told about in an issue about were lectured that, when you talk about Germans drowned traitors in the swamps. That is, we expanded our habitat, so such a trip to Scandinavia. There was his name was Jurje Von Grenhagen. He was a Fin born, the ancient Karelian epic &quot;Kalevala&quot; and there, this epic, traces of the ancient German civilization. sent this Jurye to Karelia. And in civilization, he compiled a file of witches, they had brought this file to 30 thousand forms. occult possibilities, telekinesis, at a distance, hypnosis, obviously, right? That there were of course a lot of believed in it seriously. In 1940, the Baltic States, where they also searched for traces of ancient in some way partly in They also searched there, it was believed that Germans to the medieval then to the knights, partly to for rudiments from crystal skulls (which Mexican Civilization) to the Holy in France in Montsegur. All these artifacts collect them all and give strength the Third Reich with a who led the Tibetan expedition, to the Caucasus, in the 42nd year. The war is already underway, at some point, about seven years ago, A chest with Ahnenerbe symbols, there were of what these aliens look like. As a result, lobes. They dropped these frontal lobes and got into this chest. And the chest, indeed, 1942. That is, the Germans were mystical moments in the forty-second year, had already been captured by the German Fascist Why did they go to Crimea? Because the barbaric invasion that attacked the Goths? These were the ancient Germans. And in the Gothic kingdom. And that's where this of ancient people in order to find artifacts the forerunner of which was this in nothing. Because in general, Crimea should then be such an island Reich. Oaks were sent there, because was sent there to make only Aryans can eat. a boarding house for the highest ranks and the party written out for it, but only then Army, and then were not destined to come true. But, nevertheless, seriousness they were digging up everything there. By this time, by the beginning of the war, by 1941 here, too, there is one of the evidences that he declared at the Swiss distillation or a copper cube for distilling a legend that he found the Holy Grail never know anything about it. Otto Rahn's disillusioned with Nazism with the beginning of Hitler's a concentration camp and there, either he was escaped, changed his identity in general and the person we started talking about, After criticizing Hitler, he was this institute, and Wolfram Sievers person. This is the man organization Ahnenerbe. He is engaged is engaged in administration. And the Nuremberg trials, he is responsible I'll tell you about this later. Well, the Third Reich, that is, the Nazis mystical artifacts that supposedly artifacts, they must be put power of the ancestors, it will enter the obsessed with the selection of the &quot;New Man&quot;. a monastic order. of ancestry, that is, an SS man before pedigree before 1800. If he wants of his wife, so that God forbid there were no Jews there, wanted to create a new strong, physically strong. The SS signed at the registry office or got married in strong ceremony - it was an SS wedding, at the nomenclature had to be present. Children the spring or winter solstice, as this whole compote of mystical flourishing on YouTube channels with all in full growth, it was straight reinforced was seriously puzzled and concerned about history. interfered with the German nation. Secondly, of Masters. Well, and, accordingly, a new built some kind of his own. He had civilization of his own in his head, which, I think, to lead. To finish with mysticism horrors, we need to talk about artifacts. I said, they tried refuge of the Cathars. Crystal the 40s, an expedition to Lake Titicaca did not take place because the war broke out. There was project. This is the mad man ancestry from Thor, he came up with a scientific project the strongest electric weapon. And so, an electric weapon that was supposed convert it into a blow to enemy any artillery funded, it was called the Hammer of Thor. &quot;The Gold of the Rhine&quot; is one of the ancient German gold can be extracted from the water of the Rhine. it was closed. There was a project &quot;The Spear of Longinus&quot; - this is guard. There are several such copies: one is out of Vienna during the Anschluss and it was declared the only may know it under the name Spear of Destiny. computer game Wolfenstein. Person, the ruler of the World. This spear was brought these copies was given to Himmler, who separately later, arc of mysticism completely, I'll move this Well, while some are looking for Shambhala, others witches' files, the other part of Ahnenerbe things. Namely, medicine and several things. The first is to find ancient Germanic homeopathy, the study of the mysterious Aryan tea one of the people who are starting is a botanist, he is engaged in how herbs can be used because after the war and during This is what is called from more or less whose name was August Hirt, he is known gas affects a person. To do this, people went to experiments. What amount of you give one dose of gas, and then give very roughly now, because I'm not the experiments were on prisoners. He is known a complete anti-Semite and he proved proved this with the help of his pseudoscience. a laboratory in Strasbourg when formalin, which he dissected for number of skulls of Jews, where he you see, correspond to the fact that this is so forth. There was a man who was engaged concentration camps. There was a man whose name was a seemingly harmless thing, an entomologist. He studied insects of all kinds. He was engaged the Third Reich and by the end of the war, these Then all these archives and drawings disappeared, But, nevertheless, the Germans came close Another man, his name was Heinz Brucher, how to make more fertile so forth. Because the question of declares that the Germans the coming centuries, because come up with, we will embody it. How did some works himself, and partly, for example, with of such SS military units on Vavilov, our geneticist, who his work, on plant breeding and crossing. He was also engaged in botany and plant fertilizers, he ended his life in on his own farm and, according to that affected cocaine plantations. about it, they killed the old German. well-known homeopath (well, engaged in experiments related to herbs healed wounds, developed kind of prop, in my And one of the scariest bastards, worked in Dachau, he had a personal the theory of hypothermia, when prisoners were frozen and fought with this very Aryan tea or, hot water. We watched as a person, now how quickly he can be unfrozen. Because it's very of spiritual warmth that if the human body will recover faster, and so on and died from this. Experiments in pressure chambers, when out of 200 people survived, there low and as a person with this pressure, were very important for the submarine fleet and finished badly enough, because poisons and wounds, which he also dealt with watched how quickly blood could be experiments were being done on them). In addition, he cure German women of infertility. Here, 49 gave birth to the second, at 52 the third child, a miracle drug. Now I have only deliver it at the pharmacy. And Himmler in the 40s, Sigmund Rascher's to steal a baby at the train station. it turned out that all these children, who were her children, they were abducted babies. Rasher in gynecology, two of them were exiled to a concentration camp, was executed by a bullet in the back of the head to cover up some traces, or something. Well, Ahnenerbe, as you can see, people were engaged in mysticism hand, quite practical experiments, in order tactical medicine. Himmler very often and as president he was. whole story. Ahnenerbe had phenomenal young scientists? Because they paid Gold, they were quickly closed, but, nevertheless, botany, medicine, disaster medicine and well. Many young German scientists partially paid, that is, the Reishbank research institute sums financed the so-called were industrialists and manufacturers who say at the Nuremberg trials, they were biggest, as the donors would Ahnenerbe are Daimler Benz and BMW. and transferred the money for which all these believe that it works in such a way that on the one Himmler's people came to Mercedes and said can't refuse it. And on the other hand, had military orders, BMW had military their factories. That is, it was And the funding was amazing. it's very convenient to imagine him but it wasn't quite like that. According to rumors, according to the memories of eyewitnesses) he was a talented, here in the part where it rolled for him, that is, religion (Because he also did not believe in Christianity, religion) that's where it worked for him, he interested in it all. Himmler all these mystical things into the higher forces behind Hitler. And of course he of course, Hitler I'm not just moving the German nation forward, but I'm doing it ancestors of mine. That is, it is a mission, it is not just Hitler really liked it and Himmler opinion is that Himmler really he played the faithful dog the nickname &quot;faithful Heinrich&quot; because he said of Adolf Hitler. On the one hand, and on the other, German civilization for himself. This is what we will In 1934, the history of the Wewelzburg films and in the same game Wolfenstein Castle. This is Himmler's residence, there, such a forge of SS personnel, where there would be so on and so forth. In 1934, it chosen? Because Karl Maria Wiligud, traces his lineage back to Thor, he sold located near the main the Teutaburg Forest, where the Germanic tribes on the other hand, the Exer stones, cult place for Germanic tribes. which the ancient Germans worshipped and of the Franks. It was the tree of life of Christianization has been displacing and strangling shrines is this Wewelsburg Castle. a school for the SS there, and then he comes the history of the Black Order of the SS, there are military detachments, here are Hitler's personal so forth. brotherhood. Here, the famous SS ring, it looks like. These rings were issued and a rarity, because there are very few of these rings. A silver ring on which of the owner is stamped. This ring was given to you great achievements before the SS. If a person the Wewelsberg Castle and there it lay in This ring, it could not be lost, it was the property of the order. a monastic order, hence the training in runes, a talisman and some superpowers in battle. on the ancient German give you superpowers. And that's all have spoken, a copy of it was brought there, Himmler's study. The whole office was also it was blown up in 1945 and happened, it was restored. The tower At the bottom there should be a crypt with buried there, and at the top there is a circular windows, this is the hall of the Holy Grail. There it still remain. And the famous one is it left on the floor. Here's what symbol. In Wewelsburg Castle, in this place, to see. There, indeed, I'm not lousy. Somehow you don't feel saying that there are some secrets people gathered here, some crazy, some soaked the whole place with his residence out of it, moreover, if you to be rebuilt. And here's the castle, it was all built up and it was all desperately nurtured. Hence all this got hooked on yoga, on Hinduism. That is, he is preparing to lead the future structure of the castle. In 1945, the castle was blown up But, nevertheless, now it has been rings, Death's Head rings, in this castle, everything includes the legend that the famous mythical, Battle at the last birch tree this place. When this civilization of the West immemorial times. Thus there And then the eastern tribe tried history is silent about what this battle of good That is, all this was built on wildly mystical basis. if the &quot;Hackson&quot; department, which a conspiracy and mystical story, with these all over Europe, then the &quot;M&quot; department was that dealt with mathematics. According to various kinds of evidence, Ahnenerbe technological projects of the Third Reich. And succeeded by the end of the war. Look: appeared there, the V-2 came close to the decision to create a nuclear reactor, they weapons. In all these structures who were engaged in the development. There is was not allowed there, only scientists were that of course Himmler introduced his developments. What happened to them? Well, they the Allies, a man named Bozak, who was after the war, as if he had never existed. was at the Nuremberg trials. was not tried at Nuremberg itself, but later, he was to punishment in the area of number 2000 or 2100. this man had some information arranged the Nuremberg trials, thought The Americans performed two operations, this &quot;Paper Clip&quot;, which was employees to the United States of America. And, a member of the Ahnenerbe, he was engaged Entry and work for all Ahnenerbe members was prohibited by Congress, nevertheless, they were were classified, classified and classified. still classified both in the United there is something there that I probably that's the facts of it. Himmler did not fall into faithful Heinrich, right? He began kind of cynicism should be? He also to the International Jewish Congress. A man Holocaust and offered his help. And as Jews were released from concentration camps. That is, found out about these separate negotiations and Denetz as his heir, and not Himmler. Because Himmler already over and Himmler has been arrested. He He was arrested by two Soviet to the Allies and there he revealed Himmler and during one of the interrogations unfortunately, he of the Ahnenerbe, was hanged later. But all I spoke, they all lived happily. Here, is Jurje Von Granhegen. He died in 2003. lived a very long life. It is not necessary to say that these are Germans entered them. But, nevertheless, they to engage in scientific activities, someone a man who fought with cocaine any harsh punishments after the war. the Sonderkommando &quot;Hexon&quot;, which was responsible for abilities and the description of witches, a man all over Europe. His name was Rudolf Leven. evaporates in 1945, they can't find any are responsible for such important departments, here is witchers, these people have disappeared. Perhaps maybe they live, lived under a different archives went to the Allies, the castle That's where Ahnenerbe's story ends. thing that is often associated with Ahnenerbe, with her, or maybe it was, who knows. Finally, I want to tell a story related to Ahnenerbe, although many believe that it is. a version that Hitler did not burn himself, did not burned afterwards. He fled to Latin version is to Antarctica. After all, there is a very the Antarctic Reich. What is it? Research Here the research vessel is sailing there, having a Darnier aircraft-boat, starts from the deck, and then it is they are exploring the earth in Antarctica. Maud Land. They find some kind of all. Why was this expedition needed? claimed this Antarctica, The Germans must have some part. Vikings, and Vikings probably swam there, and so -39, a very big Germany. There are many scientific works of Antarctica to establish a polar station there, and so on This is what we know for sure. Where two years after the end of are organizing an expedition called missiles due to Antarctica may be reduced and pose High Jump, there are warships and to explore this territory in order to see put up some air bases there and die during this expedition. is returning. And then, in the press, after 5-7 sailed here, disks, flying saucers with swastikas began they were shot there almost This is new Swabia - this is the Third Reich, which of submarines, transported Hitler, of the Third Reich with aliens, they they collected all these artifacts. And this of Antarctica and made a new Swabia there. 1,000 theories 1,000 articles that substantiate newspaper plums about that. That yes, the Americans Operation High Jump. Because the operation actually about new Swabia that she Ahnenerbe for Mr. Schmidt, jet, I have already of stories about the fact that the Germans created to use this weapon. The Germans came up and can cause earthquakes and so on. There's conspiracy things further on, which all Ahnenerbe. But, nevertheless, this organization is semi-occult, in fact absolutely practical research, it started, that's how it ended. Well, who created all this, about Rudolf Von the Thule society, who in turn created disgrace in the 40s. He bored everyone he ended up in Istanbul. There, according of a spy. That is, in fact, he was information for German intelligence. Or maybe practiced the occult. We do not know this, we when Germany lost the war, he rushed committed suicide. Like that. the most probably secret mystical tried to tell you everything I found myself practice. It was a really scary computer toys or funny a very real structure.