After millennials of revolving around Mars, a Earth and will crash in eight years, which the UN discusses the situation and allows China or UNMS. The plan is to make a huge base on the Striking Hammers, use this weapon to destroy Pie, from the resulting debris. Yue applies to go to him describing himself as a "middle man" and he's offered maintenance. Desperate to go, Yue whole crew of astronauts. Eight years of hard superweapon, which they happily celebrate. However who he has a crush on. In his free time, he and he's always there at the door whenever she who he is. Sometime later, Yue stays in his room confession letter. Meanwhile Lanxing receives the missiles to go off course and some asteroid those asteroid fragments will destroy the base. everyone to evacuate. But since Yue has his stays in his room. All the astronauts rush to get Moon. It isn't until Yue looks through the window a car and drives as fast as he can, noticing one. Yue starts going faster as he tries using it gets in the way of the communications system. it instead of avoiding it, but he ends up falling. leaving Yue stranded on the Moon. Yue climbs on the Moon. He starts running around dodging getting destroyed as well. Now Yue also has to goes down. After being knocked down once, he only to be knocked down again. While he's its way toward Earth. When Yue wakes up, he starts moment the asteroid fragment finally crashes on a large part of the planet. Yue can only stare years of work were for nothing. Afterward Yue but he never gets an answer. For the following six realizes he's the last human alive, which further he decorates a room for a pseudo-funeral to feed 300 people and will last him a life time, so do. First he tries to get into Lanxing's room, but a board and slides around the Moon just for fun. point of insanity. Eventually he gives up and uses clothes too. Now that he has access to Lanxing's a whole dinner with romantic music to confess unaware he's being watched. It turns out there are in front of her colleagues. Civilians are in the UNMS underground base. After some work they've only watch Yue through the cameras without sound Earth is lacking resources, it'll take them two more to rescue him. The UNMS chairman decides they asteroid impact has fractured the planet's plates, of Earth's land mass. Cities are covered in be any plants or animals left. In the underground it's hard to keep them alive without sunlight. survivors, who only get the most basic meals to The chairman thinks they should start base so survivors can get a glimmer of hope in they decide to hire a voice actor that can dub makes an announcement through the speakers to a man on the Moon and that the stream will start suspiciously disappear. A few weeks later, Yue self-delete. He makes his way to the warehouse to food package in the corridor that he didn't drop. a beautiful figure lying down. Thinking it's a only to discover it's actually a kangaroo left Lanxing starts the livestream so the first thing Roo. The voice actor they hired yells "What a talked. To apologize for his mistake, the actor beaten up. Thankfully the survivors assume the is actually talking, so Lanxing decides they'll lunar base, Yue reads the research regarding which is why he's been raiding the pantry. He to get the medicine. When Kong appears behind Then Kong grabs the handle and bends it before kangaroo and tries to keep Kong distracted, Kong brings him down and tries to do the naughty gets kicked off the warehouse. Moments later, base. Then Yue appears with a gatling gun that he balls at Kong as he chases him around the base. chasing Yue instead. As the voice actor plays start fighting each other hand-to-paw. After at the same time. The UNMS is worried about him up he hears some static on the radio. There are a sign that there are survivors on Earth. What was caused by Kong's tail messing with the cables. may have a chance to go home and they agree on anyway. Over two hundred days have passed since to try to contact Earth. He and Kong have found a family. Since it's obvious that Earth won't spacecraft left by the old Apollo 18 Mission, people in the UNMS discuss if they can use this and quickly find the Apollo. Yue runs a test and is brought back to the base and people on Earth days. The UNMS is quite impressed so they check that somehow ended up in maintenance. Eventually and Kong alone weighs more than that. Feeling like abandons him in the middle of the Moon. However When they return, Yue starts researching a more prototype of the superweapon is still stored in with a bunch of supplies and only stop travelling It'll take them weeks to reach the old base and people on Earth worry that Yue may not make it days per lunar cycle. Soon the UNMS realizes to chase the sunlight. The trip will take longer to get to the base and can only sleep four hours other entertained, but eventually the trip begins wakes up to find Kong driving and talking, driving into a crate, the duo finally makes it carefully brings it down. Kong suddenly starts but thankfully it's just the inspection program. Yue locks Kong up in the trunk to keep him away base, playing music as a distraction. This stops separated from the car. Hundred of miles later Yue for Kong would mean missing the sunlight. At first much and he goes back to save Kong. As everyone on Yue to thank him. In the UNMS, Lanxing orders lunar dog that was left behind by another mission, Yue and Kong keep on driving without stopping staying awake for over fifty hours, they notice don't give up and speed up. The temperature starts freeze to death, which consumes the car's battery the battery finally dies and the car stops. end. In the UNMS, the team finally gets the dog try making it jump over a crater as a shortcut, he keeps thinking about Lanxing while staring at reflected light like a cat, giving Yue an idea. to transform it into a sled, which he attaches to Kong starts chasing it, moving the sled through and Yue makes Kong jump across it while activating propulsion to make it to the other side. Everyone and there's an award ready for Yue for when he on fixing structures while signs of Yue and Kong the UNMS only needs three months to regain passed since the incident and Yue is still working thought because Apollo has outdated technology. hears static on the radio again. However when he the cables. Yue tests them with his own hand realizes all his work and suffering has been in Kong for a while before the depression takes over month to finish fixing the comms. Refusing to give the people in the bunkers. He admits Yue isn't mistake. But he's been working hard to be a hero him in return. Lanxing asks the survivors to turn Moon to tell Yue he isn't alone. At that moment oxygen. However humanity comes together with the Earth to prove they're alive. A shocked Yue the UNMS fixes communications and Yue gets to see Yue spends his days talking to the team, who him on how to connect the old technology with and he thinks they're becoming friends. One night Yue tells Lanxing that he initially turned down On his way out, he saw Lanxing and her smile made Lanxing makes one of her own: when she was but she left anyway because rescuing him would've again. Meanwhile something in space is approaching the Apollo and get to leave the Moon. There's to orbit and everyone on Earth celebrates. In lunar station and Yue and Kong go looking for the terrible news. Another large piece of the asteroid pushed out of orbit by the rest of the debris and Plus and it will destroy what's left of humanity. them is Yue, who would have to pilot the warhead the process. Volunteering to do the talking, conversation. However Yue already heard everything because he wants to protect Lanxing and humanity. Yue cries as he shares an emotional goodbye an escape pod. Afterward Yue takes off in Apollo way. Yue concentrates on piloting to dodge them as gets hit anyway and begins spinning out of control do but luckily Lanxing has a plan: he must open for the rotation momentum. Sadly the door is it opens. This effectively makes the Apollo stop. away, meaning the Apollo doesn't have power. He but before leaving, Yue tells Lanxing he doesn't livestream his last moment. Then Yue leaves offering a heartfelt speech as his goodbye uses his jetpack to guide the warhead toward the Yue sings during his last minutes. The pressure give up and once he's close enough, he asks A huge explosion destroys the asteroid and all the meteorite shower that symbolizes they're safe humanity has been working hard on rebuilding Earth more to do, but at least now they can be outside Kong has a statue in his honor. He also lives with flies with a new group of astronauts to the Moon that Yue is by her side watching the remains of