Embark on a journey where you can retrace adventures of your own and experience legends From its active volcanoes, deep glacier lakes, for sure, in this nation of Kiwis there will Steady yourself as TourRadar's Ultimate know about this truly remote island paradise. So travellers, are you ready? Welcome to New Zealand. Let's start with the basics. This beautiful island nation is home to just whom go by the self-appointed nickname "Kiwi." This slang is derived from the country's you guessed it, the kiwi. The country itself is formed by two main landmasses well as about 600 other smaller islands. New Zealand as a whole is quite modest in Wellington is the Capital City of New Zealand the world while Auckland, the original capital by the name "the city of sails." Which makes sense when you consider Auckland in the world! What else does New Zealand have more of than Hopefully you're a fan of these furry farm resident, which works out to nearly 30 million Your mum won't have to worry about you throughout has remained firmly in the top 10 safest countries They're also comfortably progressive, having the right to vote, regardless of gender. There are three official languages in New Language but you'll be able to get by just Now whether you're looking to uncover the delicious wine - there's plenty of diverse look. New Zealand is renowned for it's world-class Breathtaking views await you in Fiordland - Milford, Kepler, Routeburn and Hollyford. While Milford is perhaps the most famous, of forested valleys, diverse birdlife, turquoise mountain scenery. For Lord of the Rings fans, a visit to Tongariro volcanic rock and eerily barren landscape, Hopefully the moody weather cooperates during of Mt. Ngauruhoe, otherwise known as Mount Hiking the entire Alpine Crossing takes about meadows and the neon turquoise, geothermally If beaches are more your thing, New Zealand Along the Abel Tasman Coast Track, travellers subtropical bush line and granite cliffs, fur seals. Keep in mind that several tidal inlets mean with low-tide, so plan accordingly. Along New Zealand's Otago coast you can stones formed from ancient sea sediments. An equally mesmerizing and seemingly perplexing their legendary blue glowworms. Thrill-seekers can abseil down into this lost impressive views of spagatites and gigantic Once you've lost yourself in the isolation fellow travel companions and go jet boating tackle the currents of Tutea Falls along the rafted waterfall in the world. Of course there's also ziplining, bungee Each offer unique and exhilarating views of Queenstown respectively - though you can enjoy pretty much anywhere throughout the country. If you want to take things a tad slower, hit Enjoy the stunning greens that can be found For the snow bunnies, strap on your skis and to enjoy a refreshingly exciting ski down Within 20 minutes from downtown Queenstown, within 35, The Remarkables, a range that lives or skier out there. Once the weather warms up you can catch the the untouched beaches of Gisborne. And if you really want to show off your surfing the southeast coast of the Coromandel Peninsula After all, it's only the surfing capital But maybe you are just looking to kick back That's certainly alright and you picked You can catch a kapa haka performance of the enjoy chants and choral singing to graceful Consider visiting Maori meetings grounds, a traditional welcoming ceremony. Or if you wish to get literary, take a tour epic story brought to life with a wander through You can stop by the Green Dragon Inn or visit But what time of year does one journey to Fall? Spring? Winter? Well just to be clear, there's never a bad though travellers should be ready for weather the time of year. However most places throughout the country and because of the low levels of air pollution, While the far north has subtropical weather the South Island can be as cold as -10degC close to the coast, which means mild temperatures The average New Zealand temperature decreases New Zealand's Summer runs from December travel season, it's also considered the hiking, scenic driving, winery tours, and If you're lucky, you can catch a wave alongside Autumn settles in from March to May and the to behold. Winter lasts from June to August, and this to flourish. Spring temperatures are enjoyed from September of spring blossoms and snow-capped mountains. Once you've satisfied your desire to explore local cuisine. And just what is waiting for you at the dining Let's find out... New Zealand's cuisine draws on Polynesia, are staggeringly delicious. A typical kiwi breakfast consists of cereal, or milk. On weekends, when more time is available to to plates of scrambled eggs, bacon, cooked beans. After a long morning outdoors, you'll need These tasty small pastries come in a variety mince and cheese, bacon, egg and even steak. Once the evening rolls around, enjoy servings fish and chips. Due to New Zealand's long coast line the oysters, mussels, shellfish, king salmon, delicacy. The most common way to enjoy these small baby an omelet prepared only with egg white mixed If you're looking for a refreshing dessert buds then help yourself to pavlova, a meringue-based Anna Pavlova. But what should you wash down all these tasty Of course you can enjoy your share of refreshing renowned for its many exquisite wines. Sommeliers praise the country's take on Other wines highly regarded include Cabernet/Merlot Mhmmm, spectacular. Once you've allowed your thirst to be both unique libations, it'll be time to begin oceanic paradise. We hope these tips ensure that your next great If you still can't get enough then check travel tips. If you're ready to experience the country As they say in New Zealand, Kia Ora! Until next time! TourRadar - booking tours made easy.