- [Announcer] Middle Ground that brings humans with opposing beliefs or experiences together. These discussion may contain viewpoints that are the result of misinformation. Remember to seek out of your own biases while Please see the humanity and as always, we encourage empathy. - Two things can be true. You can have had a very hard time. Privilege is not just But to say white privilege doesn't exist, from historical context, to me, is respectfully absurd. (pensive, enlightening music) - [Moderator] Step forward White people also experience racism. - I think racism is against the other. It goes all ways. It doesn't matter if you're if you're Asian, it doesn't matter. You could experience racism no matter what color your skin is. - I think that people have a propensity to kind of have an aversion towards what's different from them. I've been called a cracker before. I've been told I was because I was white. I would argue that on a systemic level, white people don't experience racism the same way a lot of other But I would say on an individual level, any group is capable of being racist towards another group as well. - So the argument against that racism is a system, not a sentiment in the United States. And I agree with that really strongly. But at the same time, I'm Jewish. I'm racially white. And I've definitely experience The paradox is that most of that racism is coming from white white nationalism, et cetera, I'm Dane, and I'm Jewish. I'm proud of being Jewish and being connected an an But I'm not proud to be white I would say. White privilege, I think, is I think it exists. When I go to a job interview, I don't have to worry about my hairstyle or the way I normally speak or my name. And that's something would have to worry about. - [Moderator] Can the - So I just wanna say that I want to validate I do also believe that white people But the reason I did not step forward is because by definition, racism is tied to power and economics. You talked about systemic discrimination. I don't feel white by definition and by actual concept. - What is the definition of racism and who wrote that definition? - In the late 1500s, early 1600s, there was slavery, they But there was really no in terms of race. It's just we're bringing these people over and they're slaves. What ended up happening is who were white, started mixing And now here you have these Black people that look like the people So they're like, whoa, whoa, whoa. The theory of race was formed who would be lesser than and And this would be imposed against them for hundreds of years. So that has not been the white But it does not invalidate the things that white people experience. It's just not racism by definition. Is it prejudice, is it - Mine is simple. If one person treats because of the color of their skin, to me, that's racism. I will tell you that I plenty of times when I was a young man. And I will also tell to spend 35 years as a policeman. I'll tell you that I stopped lots of kids coming home from school. Depending who it was that I stopped, the first thing out of &quot;You only stopped me because I'm Black.&quot; And I would say, &quot;You're driving a sports car I can't see who's driving. And I stopped you because I had no idea who I was pulling Now, if I treat you differently then I'm a racist. But if I write you the same ticket that I was gonna write you before I knew who was - So I'm glad you used that example, and I want to commend you for But I do want- - But I do wanna say, 'cause I've actually and for their cadets about these issues. But what I can say, which is a statistic, and which is also a fact, is that 60% of our prison population is African American- - Yes, but let me finish, please. Is African American males, right? When you go into a system and you are kept in that system and you're cycled through probation and there is a systematic that's not happening to white males. So it's bigger than just the stop itself. It's the system. My name is Sierra. I'm an actor, a speaker, I'm very proud to be African The challenges that come with being Black, also being a Black woman, are very real. I'm at a place in my life where I'm acknowledging Discrimination is real. The systematic oppression of But I will succeed in spite of that. - [Moderator] The police force - I want to start off by saying I don't think that every cop - Same. - I think there are a lot of them who are really doing good work. But I know from the in the United States that is directly from the slave catchers who were hired to catch runaway slaves and bring them back home. - Yeah, I agree that I had plenty of interactions But I was told by a former police officer who was a cop who decided he that the training is for only colored people, that if you're around them, so you have to act in certain situations, or react to certain situations. - I think that I just that I really think that who are white that don't even believe that they're doing anything because they're simply doing - I come from a police family. And I'd like to add they do offer diversity trainings in the academy. So either it needs to be more extensive. Or maybe we need to take it a step back and fix the selection process, because that process could - Hello, my name is Nia, and I am Black. I'm proud of my race because at what people of my and to see where we are And it definitely pushes me and innovative as they were. - Historically, people Some people were hunters, And then you had whoever And over hundreds of whatever it is, that's cops, firemen, armies, and navies. Community policing as a As a practice, it has some hiccups. When I show up at your house because you and your husband got into it and he beats you up and I'm friends with him. So do I want to take him to jail? He's my friend. Or I live in the same neighborhood and I go deal with some and he says, &quot;I know where you live. I know where your kids are.&quot; So to some degree, we have This is gonna get into a hot button topic. But I will tell you that when of George Floyd, I will many of the things that happened, but I cannot justify nine But what I can also tell you and this is my personal opinion only, too, the officer who was on he probably spent too much dealing with the same that he became jaded. - Isn't that was being - It's a social service job. - And you're assigned to that - But I think you need to move around so that you get to see other things, you don't become that jaded. - The police, no matter what your race is, we have to be integrated all It doesn't have to be community policing. But we all have to I think cultural competency Like, that's my issue. Whether or not the foundations was or still is, was racist, now we can change that. But it starts with cops. Like, at the end of the day, it's the bad police Not all police officers, but the bad police officers, we need to vet them out. And the good police officers, we need to encourage them - How do we vet them out? - By making the police unions accountable. Because I feel like that they're actually making things a lot worse for the other officers that are actually just trying- - to do their job. I think we need to get some that I don't think the police So when those cops that aren't doing according to their oath, they can be properly removed instead of getting all of these passes. - The bad police Like the bad apple. It's like, no, you're a faulty grenade. Like you are ruining your I feel like I was held working at Whole Foods sometimes. I got three chances, (snap) out. But Derek had so many- George Floyd. - It's like get him out of there! What are you guys doing? - Do you think police officers, and I genuinely am curious. Do you think they should get paid more? - I think police officers I also think police Why do I get sent to all Why do I get sent to all off these things. Now, I'll tell you why I get sent to them is because we'll stop and then something horrible and they're gonna say, &quot;Why - Do you think we need to like mental health, and just other, or maybe even specific police Do you think that would help - No, we do have in certain things. But if we keep specializing and we get so compartmentalized that I can't go, I'm right when you're screaming for help. - Oh, I see what you're saying. - Yeah, that's not what I do. Gotta find the guy that or whatever it is. My name is Jimmy, and I am a retired police officer. I'm not gonna tell you on the police department. I don't think Blacks were under the law. I think that we have made I think we have to continue to get better. But I also think we probably in places where it maybe isn't. - [Moderator] I sometimes - I'd say not so much these days, but definitely 100% when I was a kid, I wished I was white. I grew up with my white mom and I didn't see my after a certain point. I grew up in a small town. I was often the only student of color, definitely the only Black kid. And I had this kinky hair. I couldn't figure out how to work with it. And everybody also would call me an Oreo. It was always just being othered. And so being a kid, you know, And for me, I wanted to be white. I just wanted to look like my mom, I want the nice straight hair, and I just wanted to feel, like, included. - Yeah, like I remember like I was thinking, no because I freaking look like this. And I just remember hating my hair 'cause as soon as puberty hit, it was just (blows out forcefully). It just blew up. And people kept on asking, &quot;Do you even need a I'm like, I can't stand these questions. I can't do this. I'm Jordan, and I am biracial. I think being biracial is definitely like living in the in-between because culturally, yes I grew up white and I completely know that. Like I was raised by my white mother. But then there's also a part And it's what people put on you and how they respond to - It's so interesting because I grew up in predominantly non-Black communities. And for some reason, still, at home in the family as I was always so proud to be Black. I actually really yearned to So thankfully in college, where even though we made I was still able to, okay, this - I was in the military for six years. And I was usually the And I think that isolation produced a sort of pride and and where I come from. - I have never wanted than what I was. But that's because I really And to your old point, but maybe people treated you that way because there is this that I haven't ever had before. I'd love to have a Lamborghini. You know what I mean? It's different than any It's different than what I grew up with. - I think personally for me, I mean, I was actually in a very diverse family. I think six out of the all different races. I kind of have my own story And the same for everyone else they have their own story. I always have pride in my parents are my parents, no matter the color of their skin. It's the people who raised me. They raised me to just not look at it through the lens of racism. That's what I've always done. And I never wanted to - I'm Joshua and I'm Black. I've never experienced racism. I've experienced stuff from I grew up in a white I was constantly called white-washed. It upset me, but I Being Black in America to me is just being an American in America, - [Moderator] White privilege exists. - I mean, America was for white people at the time. All of the institutions were designed to benefit white people. So I mean, of course into society today. We can't deny that. - Where I would argue with I think we throw out far too often for things that aren't necessarily white privilege. - I got to agree with I think there's generational But I think now it's to not try as hard. If we stop doing that, just and not use white privilege as an excuse, then we could really get - I would respectfully disagree. Like, all of that is true to an extent. Like, I graduated university the height of it. I went abroad for university. I got two degrees. I graduated with honors. I learned to speak two languages. Should have been able to No, it took me nine months Had to go completely outside of my field. But then when I looked at who are in my program, all of them were hired immediately. - I need to introduce you to my daughter. She's white, took her a long time out of college. - I'm saying that- in what her degree is in either. - I respect that, but my point is saying, me comparing myself to the white students who were directly in my position, they're successful, I'm not. - This country was founded and then putting in act saying that if you are not white, you are genetically inferior. You are not even a person. And some of those laws are still, and those systems are Two things can be true. You can have had a very hard time. Privilege is not just But to say white privilege doesn't exist from a historical context, - Something that I the privilege that exists specifically relating in giving epidurals. There was a study that's that said Black people have which then has been falsely used by people who help support births in being hesitant to provide the epidurals for A lot of women die in childbirth. I don't know the exact statistics. - Three times more likely, - Thank you. The fact that I will be taken seriously, more seriously than a if I should be giving birth at some point, I see that as just an absolute privilege. My name is Bryn and I just graduated and I'm currently getting hours to becoming a licensed therapist. As a therapist, in school, with what's called cultural humility. Cultural humility is being curious. And instead of trying working collaboratively with the client to kind of understand - [Moderator] I have been - You know, the standard one. &quot;You're pretty for a Black girl.&quot; I'm like, that's not a compliment. That's so weird to say. And one of the go-to pickup lines for men, they're like, &quot;Oh my God, what are you?&quot; I'm like, this is not cute. I'm tired of having this conversation. This is lame. Yes, I know I have green eyes, hazel eyes. Like, let's move on. - I think Black women are, in particular, just extremely sexualized and fetishized. Every day I go out, I'm making sure that my because I don't wanna The way I wear my hair, if it's in puffs, if it's in braids, I'm gonna get treated differently. Yeah, every single day, something happens. - So there's a form of where Jews are perceived coming from money, being doctors, lawyers. And you know, women are attracted And also, too, like all Some women have that preference. So I've definitely experienced it. But I feel like it's a sort Like it never really bothered me? But it's occurred nonetheless. - Yeah, I've had experiences you know, people ask me &quot;Oh, are you Egyptian?&quot; &quot;Are you Black and this?&quot; It's always Black and something else. And I let them know what &quot;Ooh, that's exotic,&quot; or My name is Dino, and I'm biracial. I don't want people to think that I'm like split between I'm acknowledge that I'm But for the most part growing up, I was always considered Black. I considered myself Black. My family did as well. So I don't think we should But I also don't think and feel like we can't move and accomplish things and where we live in America. - I would just have a question for everyone who stepped forward. I'm just curious, how - Exhausting. - I think Black women historically have a really interesting Culturally it seems we're not desired. And then when we are, so it's like, okay, we're but now we are. Am I supposed to lean - I think just being a woman, we deal with certain things every day. Specifically being a Black it's interesting because if I, especially in my industry, 'cause I'm there to work I'm just super professional and I don't give any that kind of energy, then I'm an angry Black woman. So I think that it's just really- - You can't win. - It does feel like that, so, yeah, that you can't win sometimes. - And there's also a flip side to it. It's like, for me, specifically, I'm light-skinned amongst And people deem me or as a certain way, as Or just like, okay, you're lighter than, so when we're so pro-Black that we're never gonna You're just other. - A lot like touches in the Black community, Like I've even been told, &quot;You're beautiful, you're not Black.&quot; It's just like these little things. - Oh yeah. with something, right? - My name's Christina, and I'm biracial. I have been fetishized on both sides. Black men will be really into Or other men who are not because I am that Black girl, but maybe I'm not too Black. And that, for whatever Being deemed as exotic or something other is just very problematic. And that plays into a within the Black community at large. - [Moderator] We need reparations - I don't think people need Like I don't think that's gonna like work. But I think pouring funds into communities who could really use more education there, like more opportunities would do so much. That's how I see it should be. - Any time that Black tried to pull themselves they were attacked. Like I think it was in Black Wall Street, it So again, something needs to be done. - When the Civil War ended, there was a representative from Ohio. I can't remember his name. But he was a radical Republican and advocated for the phrase, &quot;40 acres and a mule for So there was supposed to be reparations. And there never was. And I think especially as a Jewish person, I mean, Jews received and are still receiving that. And in my mind, there's no amount of money that will ever undo the All the money in the world But I think the idea and Logistically, I don't - I just wanted to say was because I wasn't entirely sure what was meant by reparations. But your example of the Holocaust, I would say that I agree. - Some other reason, when I think of something My worry is with the lack will we actually make strides. That's my, so I would love into programs in underserved communities, something like that. But I do have a fear that without that generational knowledge of how to take care of our finances, that it would just deplete - But even if that were to happen, though, I still think that that would You know, we'll give these We'll give them our promise. And if they float or sink At least we as a country - I'm all for money I am for that, because the communities right because of things in the past. But to give out checks there's a difference between and then still getting I mean, if I had a time machine, I could go back in time and be like, hey, you never gave us I would be all for that for the people who were affected and actually went through slavery. But in today's age, like and gone through it. Yes, communities are taking - You don't think your - I think they do, but I haven't. I've never been in it, so why should I get a who never put. You should be going - So what about the people of the slave owners who are still reaping the financial benefits of your ancestors who slaved in those fields, for literally generation after generation? You don't think that during that time, your great-grandfather could that could be flourishing by now, and you would have a as they do off the backs of others? You don't think that deserves in the present time? - To be honest, no, because again, it's something that happened in the past. Again, I haven't experienced it. I'm doing fine right now, I'm doing fine. And I'm not going to be all upset over somebody else's ancestors who I don't even know who I don't need it. I have no reason to have it. - So for me, personally, but I do feel my grandfather, on his side, they were the first family who actually filed for reparations. And for me, I'm succeeding But to this gentleman's point, when the government says, &quot;Hey, we're gonna do a thing,&quot; obviously the government and the error of wrong, just I think if I wanna buy 90 gold I think it would be unfortunate. But I think if I'm entitled to something, I think it should be in the same fashion that the people of Jewish descent got it. I think it should be in the same fashion that the people that are Japanese got it. So you might think it doesn't affect you. But overall, I think we by slavery, even up to current. I just choose not to focus on it nonstop so it doesn't become But I definitely think it's something that we're entitled to. - Thank you. - Great, guys. (panelists talking over each other) - Thank you. (pensive, enlightening music)