Thank you. Are you okay, Chelsea? Did he do anything to you? Such a creep. We need to get her to a doctor. Yeah, he must have hurt her. She's in shock. I gave her a sedative and she'll calm down soon. Yes, a freak attacked her. Yeah, he was so creepy. I'm so nervous about Chelsea. [DANGER TOXIC] I'm feeling better now. Thanks. [DANGER TOXIC] Wanna have lunch? Nick, why don't you have lunch She's my best friend. I'm sure she wouldn't want us I think you forgot this. Hmm, it smells like something died. Don't flirt with my boyfriend. Sorry, you know how she is. [WHAT?] But what? What did I do? I know you wanna steal my boyfriend, Nick. I saw everything. [Best Friends] [Lena] Hello. Chelsea, come to the hospital, quick! What happened? Someone attacked Kate! She's barely alive! KATE! You know way too much. [DANGER TOXIC] You think you can outsmart me, Chelsea? I saw you with Alan. I know you've been planning something. You really think I didn't see you steal my secret note the other day at the hospital? I have been studying this A-virus strain for years. It mutates cells in the human body, giving the infected the animal instinct to attack and eat others. Why would I spread such a dangerous disease? I created this virus to make the world all mine. I selected three of my favourite biology students to be the first carriers of the A-virus. And it worked all according to plan. My first zombies were born! If only stupid Alan hadn't decided to run away. Kate and Nick learned to transform into humans in order to disguise themselves. Thankfully, Alan never could. You know way too much but we can fix that She's barely alive. Wait, did we sleep here all night? Duh? What happened to your lip? Wait! We're late! Oh my gosh, he watched my story. Do you think he likes me? Chelsea? Alan. What did you say? [ALAN A-SCHOOL...] [ALAN A-SCHOOL...] He was real, right? Why can't I remember him? I know you, but I can't remember how. Yes, they erased your memory. When I saved you from Kate and told you to run, the door slammed shut. Nick appeared. They both attacked me. Then I woke up in the medical cabinet bathroom tied up with a gag in my mouth. I saw Kate preparing a victim's makeup and Nick planning something evil with the doctor. Then I woke up and heard the horrifying truth. We are zombies and the dangerous A-Virus in our veins was created by our school doctor to take over the world. After you learned the truth, the doctor injected a dangerous substance into your IV. When you lost consciousness, Nick carried you out of the room. I remember everything. Chelsea, all these years, my heart was dead, but you're the only one who made it beat. What happened? It seems someone played a trick. You're nothing but a failed experiment, Alan. And to think you'd run away from me. I've been wondering what your punishment should be. Death. Alan's a traitor. This will cure you from the virus, and end your human life forever. Don't do this! Your plan will never work. And what are you going to do? No one can stop us now. I read your secret record and found something interesting. The Doctor is using you. After you're done helping her, she'll end your lives too. Don't believe her! No! Let me go! Let go of me! Don't trust her! No! This means, I'll die too and we can't be together. I learned something else. Antidote for A-Virus: only true love can cure the infected from the virus. If a zombie feels true human love, it becomes human again. Chelsea, I'm a human again! I love you, Alan. I love you too. We don't need to conquer the world when we have each other. We have our love. I never liked going to the doctor anyways. Gender reveal! It's a... [Green?] Zombie? Oops! I used the wrong food coloring! It's a boy! See? You saved the world. Breaking news! This great Dr. Debbie has broken out of prison. She's unleashed her dangerous A-virus with 126 new cases confirmed today. -Again?! Click here to watch another episode of Alan's Universe!