Saudi Arabia has been at the crossroads of civilizations for centuries and is a diverse and captivating travel destination. It is known as the heartland of Islam, but also offers beautiful natural landscapes, lively urban centers, delicious food, and friendly people. The country has long been closed to tourists, but in recent years has opened its borders to independent travelers. In this video, I'm taking you back to one of my favorite journeys, through this complicated, but fascinating country. From the modern streets of capital Riyadh to the desert landscapes around Al Ula and the Edge of the World. From the sacred atmosphere of Medina to the vibrant streets of coastal Jeddah. And from the tranquil beaches of Umluj island to the grounds of a traditional camel race. So join me, exploring the remarkable country of Saudi Arabia. We begin our journey in Riyadh, the bustling capital city of Saudi Arabia. It's a political and economic powerhouse, With its rapid expansion in recent years, Many travelers start exploring Riyadh in the which provide an interesting insight into Saudi Arabia's history. In sharp contrast stands the Kingdom Centre, a huge shopping mall that also boasts an incredible sky bridge, where you can admire sweeping vistas of the city and beyond. Walking the streets of Riyadh is an experience in itself. From crumbling neighborhoods to huge construction sites, where migrant workers are building some of the city's new skyscrapers. As you can see behind me, there's a lot of people from South Asia mostly. I think many are from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and from India as well. One year? Four years ago (I came here). Now you have a break. I have a break, lunch time. Lunch time. Tasty? Yes, tasty! And from intriguing mosques, emphasizing the role of religion in the country, to welcoming bazaars and markets. Perfumes, 'oud', and roses. From 100 riyal to maybe 30,000 riyal. It's very, very heavy, you see. This is 150,000 for the whole box. I'm very careful with it. That's fine, it's not broken (easily). Looks like a nice and busy place to eat something. The food here (in this restaurant) is mostly Sudanese, but there are also some Indian influences, and maybe some different flavors and spices as well. Also the people that are visiting are from different countries. I'm sitting here with a very kind man from Pakistan, and a kind man from Sudan. Another kind man from Saudi Arabia. Welcome Holland, welcome. There you go, we're very welcome. Thank you, Sir! Riyadh is also a popular venue for events, with many focusing on art, music, culture, and food, such as the Riyadh Season festival. Welcome to our burger. Tamil Nadu? Hi, I have a food truck with specialty coffee and sweets. And I'm very happy to be at the Riyadh Seasons, and I'm still here for another month and a half. Thank you! We leave downtown Riyadh behind and travel onwards to the Edge of the World, one of Saudi Arabia's most spectacular natural sights. Reaching this spot requires a 4WD, as the last part is unpaved, and the trip is best done with a local expert guide. Here we are on the top of the World Edge. That one on the top, we will go to that end, and we'll stand there. If you are standing here, you will see us very tiny. It's an amazing view. Very nice! The Edge of the World is part of the much larger Tuwaiq escarpment, which runs roughly 700 kilometers through central Saudi Arabia. What makes this place so special are the edges that reach out from the plateau, the sudden drop in altitude, and the seemingly endless views of the horizon. Make sure to take a look underground, to discover mysterious cave like empty spaces, eroded by time. This cave, we call it 'degel', is not actually a cave. Usually the opening is above the ground, but this one is in the ground, so you go down to it. It is humid and a little bit hot. Now we can see clear and dry. Not far from the Edge of the World, and a popular day one of the largest camel markets in the country. Camels hold a special place in the hearts and minds of many Saudi people, forming a symbol for the start of civilization in this region. We drive Northwest through small cities and desert landscapes, and spend the night in Buraidah. This small city is host to the annual Qassim dates festival, attracting farmers and date traders, sharing their technology and expertise. Date production is an important part of Saudi's economy, and the country is the second largest producer Although it was out of season when I visited, the size of the complex gave away its importance. It's amazing how they mix their traditional culture with a modern style restaurant basically. Let's try this chicken. After a hearty meal and a good night sleep, The Al Ula region, or governate, is home to some of Saudi's most surreal scenery, with spectacular valleys, red sandstone cliffs and dry riverbeds, also known as wadi. The main settlement, also called Al Ula, was a market city on an historic trading route, linking India and the Persian Gulf to Europe and the Levant. Today, it's a friendly place that serves as a jumping-off point for attractions in the area, such as the famous Madain Saleh, which was, unfortunately, closed at the time of visiting. Not far from Al Ula we stumble upon a local camel race, one of the region's most popular classic sports. Camels have long played an important role in Saudi Arabia and beyond. They were crucial for centuries as a means of transportation Through the years, camel races became a form of entertainment, with the first taking place as early as the 7th century. These days, the sport seems ever more popular as a symbol of wealth and a celebration of traditional culture. With modern times come different ways. The jockeys that used to ride the camels have been replaced by small robots with an automatic whip and microphone, which are remotely controlled by the camel trainers, in jeeps and SUVs. It's rough and wild, and I'm currently being driven around It's stunning, here in the middle of Saudi Arabia, this Saturday camel race! Driving further South we take a brief look at the ancient ruins of Khaybar. This place was the scene of the infamous Battle of Khaybar, an armed confrontation in the 7th century that resulted in the early Muslims Surrounded by palm trees and built on volcanic soil, the remains of the fort provide an interesting insight into human history in this area. We continue our journey through a surreal landscape of rugged to reach the West Coast of Saudi Arabia. Umluj is known for its unspoiled islands and beautiful beaches, and is sometimes nicknamed as the 'Maldives of Saudi Arabia'. This area, located in the Red Sea, consists of 104 islands, and stands in stark contrast with the arid desert landscapes The Red Sea is an inlet of the Indian ocean and divides Asia from Africa. It is historically an important trading route, but also provides a livelihood for thousands of fishermen from the region. As the world's Northernmost tropical sea, it has a rich and diverse ecosystem, and an abundance of fish. At the time of visit, most islands were not officially open to tourism yet, but a friendly fisherman and his son were happy So I made it to the island eventually, one of the smaller It's really beautiful, it's white sands, pure water, some coral reefs around it as well. It's definitely worth the effort! We travel onwards to Medina, known as the City of the Prophet, and considered the second holiest city in Islam after Mecca. This is where Islam's founder, Mohammed, lived and was eventually laid to rest. All able Muslims are supposed to make the journey to You are from Kashmir in India? Yes, from India. You are from Pakistan Sir? Pakistan. Made in Bangladesh, Dhaka. Where are you from? Indonesia. 'Allahu Akbar' It's unbelievable, people from all parts and it's really quite special The Prophet's Mosque is a spectacular sight, one of only two mosques in the world that can hold over a million people. It holds deep significance for Muslims from all over the globe. While many pilgrims visit Medina by themselves and with their families, there are also a lot of tour groups with professional guides. Salam Alaykum (Peace be upon you). My name is Fidosi, this is Faudia, and that is Faisal. We are the three F's. We are from Nigeria and we are currently in Medina, for the lesser Hajj, also known as Umrah. Good morning to all the people, my name is Muhammed. I come from Malaysia actually. I'm a tourist guide. So as you can see, nowadays we bring our people, about 4 buses, for Umrah. As the day was coming to an end, there was one more prayer session to go. While the Sun was setting, I found a spectacular where I was allowed to witness a beautiful event in the religion of Islam. On the way to our last destination, we pass the highway to Mecca. Unlike Medina, this city is not open to non-Muslim visitors. But somehow it was still a special feeling to be so close to the holiest city in Islam. We arrive in Jeddah, the second largest city in Saudi Arabia, and an important commercial and economic center. It's often described as more liberal, and perhaps One of the highlights for many travelers is the intriguing Al Balad, filled with traditional merchant houses and other, partly renovated buildings. It's fascinating to walk the narrow alleys here, absorbing the sight and sounds of daily life happening around you. Good morning! Hi, I'm Maryam. And I'm Afya. This is one of the most unique locations in Saudi, in Jeddah especially. Because it's one of the rare pedestrian areas, so you have access to the community. They are very accessible. You have access to the daily life. This is also where I met Abeer, a tour guide that could explain me more about this area. Hi Stef, my name is Abeer, and I'm the first Saudi female tour guide. And I'm happy that you came to our beautiful city, which is a Unesco World Heritage site. It has been registered in 2014. One of the nice things about this city is that it is built with coral stones, which is the Red Sea style. You see here, these are coral stones. We call them the breathing stones because they have holes. This house has been restored and these are the new stones. So here we are in a beautiful house. It's 140 years old, it has been restored and became a museum. So you can come and fully experience how people used to live the last century. It was interesting to listen to Abeer's stories, and also to see women at work in Saudi Arabia. For a long time, women have been limited in their ability to work in the country. Recent changes, however, suggest that the role of women in the workforce is growing, and Jeddah may be at the forefront of these developments. Welcome to Saudi Arabia! After a brief stroll through the modern Red Sea shopping Located on the Red Sea, Jeddah has a long coastline Hello, welcome to Saudi Arabia, welcome to Jeddah! Welcome to Jeddah! Where are you from? Bangladesh Cairo. You are welcome in Jeddah, our fish is fresh! This is the number one fish. Other places not to miss here, are the massive fish market, where some of the fish from across the region is traded, and the imposing Al Rahmah mosque, nicknamed as the floating mosque. And that concludes my journey through Saudi Arabia, a diverse and eye-opening travel destination, with beautiful natural scenery, ancient historic landmarks, important religious sites, bustling urban centers, tasty food, and welcoming people. I realize I have only scratched the surface, and you could that has long been a mystery to outsiders. Yet I still hope this video gave you some travel inspiration, or at least provided a glimpse into this complex, but captivating place. Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely!