Hey guys welcome back again to Ken in the singing. We get a lot of requests and a lot of questions about singing and I just want we have. Now before we get started here when I answer these questions, I remember out when a vocal coach says just do this they don't really demonstrate it it out themselves so you're kind of left to do it or you read it in a textbook or you're not physically demonstrating this it is that you're talking about and man decades of going to some of the world's could not demonstrate what they teach so drove me to doing my singing course Else it that I could be very explicit with big technical terms and big fancy and pretend that I have all this great really have great knowledge of the voice really be able to explain it to you I go through some of these questions, I'm just that so you really apprehend this. ask a question it is multifaceted. There answer here, one answer there and not multiple answers or there could also be this point and then you do this and then you a quick five-minute tutorial or a the word irresponsible. No one is gonna tip or a quick answer but at least it'll clarify a lot of things for you to really help have yourself doing whatever question is that answer those questions okay. So with that lot of these little or a lot not little but but big questions that I have coming in to really again clarify and how to do some of the things you guys let's get started. Okay the question is how do I breathe when singing. Well that's a huge question because the way than the way we breathe when we want to sing well okay and there's lots of there's um ways that runners breathe. runners breathe. There's a way that swimmers and how they pace out their breath stroke and you know so forth. There's forth. So there's lots of different ways it's very different. So let me go through want to emphasize that the way we break some habits of how we normally intercostal muscles in the lung. Now I description tag you know breathing for diaphragmatic support how we breathe so So we have in our lungs and our.. in the tissue and like I said they're called giant honeycomb that goes through the fragile so you got to be really careful cancer, that's one of the hardest of like taking a you know those little blow like a balloon in the straw you thinner substance and a bunch those in a fashion throughout the lung, that's looks like right. So it's very sensitive, people when they ingest air they take they ingest it from the lung okay. Now of so I don't want you to go away thinking your stomach and you don't breathe from the chest. Well that is and isn't true and let me explain. We want to take our called ribcage expansion and again I cover couple of tutorials out on this and description so you can follow along. Now video that this five minute tutorial or the total sum of you learning how to series of exercises you really should do started. So we take the lung and we're already in the lung. So kind of imagine like a proud peacock, you're kind of you know whatever not out like this but Now your your spine again really can't hunched over like this. It really needs be straight. So so think of really big so posture for singing so we get our support this concept of ribcage expansion okay. Now I want you to try and experiment and it's the experiment video that I have so I need you to watch ingest some air in the belly and feel belly. Now what you're gonna notice is is back right that your ribcage is an open state alright. It's already you exhale. So it's expanded and that head on the ground and you can feel this breath coming in and out of the abdomen that is a good actual breath itself works. Now where a don't understand the strength required sustain good quality singing and have to give you the strength um to be able and create longevity and we're gonna because we got asked a lot of questions you take this breath and just just sit that breath on the ground and watch then I want you to do a couple simple you're gonna do a sit-up and you're an easy vowel and you're just gonna go, belly's gonna come out and you're gonna go (sings) and as you come up that scale, that will breath. So as you come back down off the breath pulling in inside the tummy. Kinda the bathroom. Yes it's a gross way to to exactly what it sort of feels like. So there's lots of different ways to take use the breath. So sometimes you want to and you want to have you know different phrase stabs and stuff. So you can't always say well gosh Ken how do I your tummy's going you know like this Okay so now I've seen a couple of other actually demonstrate that and one of of them very well known vocal coaches when they sing they're not demonstrating they're just going through the motions looks correct but they're actually not So you've seen me say the call register or calling out someone's stealing my car phone off of the table.. picnic table or your tummy you go hey hey. Now don't come from the chest just from the stomach. Hey hey hey hey hey and you do that a strength. Now I can't get into all this tutorial and there's a lot to this. I have a Better Than anyone Else and I cover good abdominal strength and good specifically for singing. Now why I keep breath and other breaths is let's use someone is in a yoga position, they're in a relaxed state and they take their breath you know usually through ingest through the nose as much as you a moisture to the breath so that doesn't dry the chords out because if head cold and you're laying there all in the morning your throat is so dry and because you didn't warm the breath by port the nasal cavity down into the lung where it warms the breath and it adds moisture okay so that's there's another part to this. Here I'm can't always ingest from the nose, you on the stage well how are you gonna be well you can't you just do it when you can as best as you can and as often as you can okay. Let's get so taking in the breath in a yoga position. You take in the breath with a exhale is the relaxation response this and you do do diaphragmatic belly here you have this belly full relax. Well in singing it's the opposite when you exhale that's when you're using your air to be able to your car for singing, without it you know right or car without an engine. So your you know you're sort of (sings) right so every time you take that breath and you pull in in the sound. Now you're gonna get a lot of listen to that guy, he's crazy you want You know you should never have any stress out the abdomen like that it's the body. Okay guys first of all time. I've taken from some of the world's this to the test like you can't even out where I spent around a million absolutely the truth. So as we as these can't demonstrate it but they can talk hate stuff. I want you to understand soccer players in the world on Barcelona reason I'm gonna use him as another when Lionel Messi is going to goal and his body is completely absent from out beyond belief but he's conditioned literally pace himself with a balance so with an incredible amount of force and things that whatever and then the second component to breathing, the minute he response where his heart rate may have been up around 150 hundred and sixty beats a minute boom he can bring beats a minute as a resting heart rate kind of just jogging along on the field. other sport in that yes you..resistance I'd rather use that term than stress. There's an incredible amount of required but here's the key to this and again is just a short tutorial, you're you know video here but the concept is have to really visualize and I'm not swami, snake-oil, visualize. No you have compartmentalizing your body. Here's what the lung you don't think about the lung one unit. You think about your upper starting at the diaphragm and I'm gonna a relaxation response in the chest and talk more and you're gonna see my video preaching this for thirty years and it's technique. Guys I think I kind of almost belcanto term but that and glottal compression and a lot of these different I've been talking about this a long time along and you know regurgitating and already said for quite some time. Yet concepts and how they work together in another sidetrack. Let me just get back separate your body and your upper torso you have to have.. build muscle memory for state and you have to manage your stomach is doing all the work and you're the resistance that's happening in your key on how to not mount stress avoid strength in the stomach altogether, It's that you're able like Lionel Messi that stress into a relaxation response. diaphragm it looks like a crescent moon like this under here and when you of do..well let me do.. let me show and it goes and it looks like this. So it it goes like this, that concave I wish I could kind of make it look like this right, that concave if you have them again built muscle builds a vacuum inside the lung so that want to go hey hey hey. You have all this that important, well it's important lung what did I say at the very fragile and very sensitive. It's not that but it hasn't carries nowhere near the abdominus muscle that runs through your down your back and all the different stomach that are can..that handle far more of a load and way have a much greater stamina or built rather than huffing and puffing from the when you go to sing a song you only last start to build and mount all that down, you pitch and cramp in the throat, off the vowels that you're singing or cycle of this you know this response of on your vocal folds. Now that's also why the ah vowel because once you've established this amazing stream of air from the stomach. Once you hit the glottis which hit hey hey hey, you have to build in again technique to keep the throat open so the clench down and building muscle mass up you're choking on your vowels okay. So overview on how all this stuff works but mechanism. So again we have posture, we three-quarters full, we have a relaxation throat that we really have to from the belly and then we bring in that have and between each breath again very sit-ups thing and doing the triad when people when they do sit-ups they do they have a really tense abdomen, well vocal coaches out there that say you're it's gonna translate through the body. What you do is after each sit-up when down you completely relax the body get stomach if you have to to relax your create that relaxation response so that and not overuse this muscle structure. If barbells and here's his barbells as he's number ten and that my resting part is weight and I'm not really relaxing and rejuvenate that muscle and never you point where I can come back fresh and do please like and subscribe to my channel a singing forum that has around 10,000 this stuff, how to help you get better at check out a lot of the free video can see all the different things that I resources to get you where you need to next step ,please feel free to check out gang God bless you peace out. Hey guys if you like what you heard please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE to my channel by will actually take you to another page and it opens up a menu and the menu has little box you can check, where it says channel. Check the box and then click the and you'll get notifications from me, Okay thanks guys peace out. you