NARRATOR: The Knights Templar. A secret brotherhood born in the throes only to vanish after (Ominous music playing) Of these men remains the legends Their white overcoats The riches they amassed. Their discipline and ferocity These were the elite troops, the special forces NARRATOR: After 1,000 years, mysteries of these soldiers of Christ. FEMALE VOICE: Are they priests? Are they knights? What are they? An English chronicler called (Heroic music playing) NARRATOR: of the Order of the Temple? What was its mission? And how did the Templars so quickly? By the end of the 12th century the Templars had become NARRATOR: Thanks to experts along with an investigation where the only written evidence we discover the birth a unique paradox of men (Speaking French) that there's a military code within a religious rule. (Speaking French) who felt it was an abomination to try to bring together (Epic music playing) NARRATOR: to the royal courts discover the rise See how they rallied the Pope, all across Europe People began to offer large numbers of donations (Speaking French) The county Ile de France, saw the birth and commanderies It was completely unprecedented that powerful, that quickly. NARRATOR: This is the story of the Knights Templar, a handful of men who transformed into a religious order (Flames crackling) NARRATOR: Jerusalem. It was here, that the first Knights Templar At the time, Nearly destitute. But all are of great piety and have been trained in combat. Sworn to dedicate their lives protection of the Holy Land, and of the Christian pilgrims (Solemn music playing) To understand the origins we must go back to the end At the time, In the west, was under the authority of the Islam dominates North Africa, while the Turks threaten and its capital Constantinople, territory With Pope Urban II's the First Crusade witnessed marching across Europe After three years these crusaders reclaimed in particular where Jesus Christ was crucified They got to Jerusalem and camped outside the city laying siege to Jerusalem, and once they breached the city walls in July, It was said that blood This could be Medieval chronicles the scale of carnage, Muslims were slaughtered. NARRATOR: to the Crusader States: the county of Edessa, the county of Tripoli SEAN MARTIN: this three-year epic journey, with tens of thousands of people a lot of them just went back (Rumble of marching feet) NARRATOR: At the dawn the security threatened from all sides, rested on only a few knights who chose to settle there. (Chattering voices) The challenge facing in the east is to try and turn their into permanent territories From a military perspective, who can raise armies And in Aleppo, and also Fatimid, Egypt which can raise Given that the Crusader States, can't put together with a slightly larger that's a very serious challenge. (Dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: In Jerusalem, Christian pilgrimage and is organized by the The King of Jerusalem, the Latin Patriarch and the Canons which govern religious life MAN SPEAKING FRENCH: that is located at the site and the burial of Christ. It's a church that attracted and therefore which happens of Jerusalem. And therefore it's the Patriarch and the Canons, is really structured. NARRATOR: At their side of the Order of the Hospitallers to help welcome pilgrims But guaranteeing their safety is becoming MAN SPEAKING FRENCH: were under constant threat from ambushes, so all pilgrims arriving in the vicinity The outskirts of this holy land (Dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: At the time, the Knights Templar The soldiers charged were called The Knights (Speaking French) It's who organize themselves To protect men, throughout The milites sancti sepulcri are neither part of the Holy Sepulcher nor of the Hospitaller Order It could be said that who are committed to protecting to defending, if need be, those areas are in a kind They are dependent on the Canons and dependent of Saint John of Jerusalem who maintain and nourish them. NARRATOR: Among these one knight will claim His goal is to form A hybrid order, which no one had ever dared Soldiers of a new kind, This knight is the founder as the Order of the Temple. His identity and history in a 12th century chronicle patriarch of the Jacobite church MALE VOICE: At the beginning a Frenchman came from Rome He had made a vow not to return but to become a monk after having helped the King Along with the 30 knights he would spend the rest When the king and his barons saw that the Frenchman had achieved remarkable things they advised the man with his 30 knights and defend the place rather than become a monk in the hope of saving Now this man, whose name accepted this counsel, and the 30 knights joined and united with him. NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns. Born in the Champagne region in a small village located 12 kilometers He is a knight in the service With his suzerain, Hugues de Payns will spend at the beginning before returning to Europe. (Speaking French) Hugues He had a wife and children. And then in 1114, touched by a deep piety that must have inhabited him he went back to the Holy Land, and this time he left that he would never come back. (Inaudible) GHISLAIN BRUNEL: Hugues de Payns a defender of the Holy Land. He truly experienced and it must have been In Jerusalem, one could not be One could only be a knight turned towards God, so this idea when he arrived in Jerusalem. NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns And in 1119, one event (Epic music playing) On June 28th, 1119, Muslims of the city of Aleppo attack the Principality The intensity of the fighting that the event will be baptized as the Ager Sanguinis: the battle (Clatter of swords) It is Baldwin II, who will come in person This battle reinforced that the threat to the Crusader (Speaking French) realized that he needed than he had on the ground. He needed border guards, escorts on the roads He needed additional forces. NARRATOR: in the small city of Nablus north of Jerusalem, that a council was to take place that would change Assembled around Baldwin II, and the Patriarch the council brought together and nobles of the kingdom. On that day, the two men approved the project The formation both religious and military, dedicated entirely (Speaking French) by the King to gamble that these knights and the Patriarch which was not because these knights who had gathered in the shadow were empowered. They detached themselves they claimed to lead to no longer obey the directive but a master chosen without ceasing that is to say, (Dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: who will offer the members a place to settle. This place is mentioned written by William of Tyre, known for being the first MALE VOICE: Over the course some noble knights to the service of Christ, and professed to live forever obedience and poverty. As they had neither church the king granted them which was located PHILIPPE JOSSERAND: made a very strong gesture by offering his palace to them Baldwin's palace of the Esplanade of the Mosques, south of the Temple Mount. It extended the former palace And so Hugues de Payns somehow took on the name by calling themselves &quot;The Poor Fellow-Soldiers and of the Temple of Solomon.&quot; NARRATOR: The Poor and of the Temple of Solomon. Later, and the group will become one in all history: The Order of the Temple. (Dramatic music playing) Faced with the ongoing conflicts the members must now find a way to grow. The Templars in the 1120s, what they really needed high quality recruits, money, that would supply the resources NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns to embark on a vast recruitment GHISLAIN BRUNEL: France, Champagne, to try to recruit NICHOLAS MORTON: for the King of Jerusalem, he went into all the major People began to get curious what his order and when they found out, they were immensely impressed huge sums of money. Large numbers of donations So much so that it became very, (Epic music playing) NARRATOR: and the founders know that to bring more men they need to be recognized by the highest authorities In the beginning people were asking questions &quot;Are they priests? Are they monks? What are they?&quot; Because a priest, a monk, but they are fighters, GHISLAIN: who considered it prayer and combat In his desire to transform it into an order, Hugues de Payns of the Roman Church NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns in a region close His first wife, is a relative in which we also find in ascendancy and recognized Bernard de Fontaine, who later becomes and after he is canonized, Saint Bernard. GHISLAIN BRUNEL: Saint Bernard and in 1115 he founded the abbey of Clairvaux. He also came from chivalry, from the border of Burgundy So he had of a man of combat, with a great strength a very great orator a rigorous life which was the figurehead in the 12th century. Saint Bernard was already a considerable figure a sort of moral figure both for the clergy He saw in the Knights Templar to support the continued but he also wanted to reform For over 100 years, one of the biggest problems was to reform Knights were troublemakers. They fought vendettas they caused trouble, And so Bernard of Clairvaux saw the idea of using the Templars as a role model &quot;This is how you should be.&quot; Tried to steer them away and into what he perceived to be Convinced that this new Order represented an opportunity Bernard de Clairvaux which would go down in history, entitled, &quot;In Praise MALE VOICE: This is which fights a dual battle and against evil spirits. They live dwell under one roof, have no property of their own. They have no fear of sin because it is for the sake that they give or receive They are more gentle than lambs, and fiercer than lions, so much so, that we do not know whether to call them monks (Bell tower ringing) MARINA: What is stated in his was of course justification but it wasn't just that. What is most important is the opposition that he makes The profane chivalry, or seek after richness and love their beautiful horses, and another kind This new chivalry by the Templar Knights, that really don't care individual richness, And they put their lives in support of Jerusalem, and Christianity in the end. NARRATOR: the authorities under the direction organized the Council of Troyes, bringing together members of the clergy, nobles and representatives During this council, the very first rule and put down in writing. Today, only ten original copies Among them is this work, and kept in the National Library (In French) The manuscript the Rules of the Temple, which continues Then there's that the Templars received and then the bulk by the rules of the Temple. So, for all of This allows us to say to the Templars. It most probably even belonged to an important house because with a beautiful layout, with the watermarked letters So this is something important. (Pounding drum beat) NARRATOR: we find the names of those The first is perhaps Cardinal Matthew of Albano, The following gathered in the cathedral among them, The archbishops the bishops of Soissons, Paris, eight abbots, Bernard de Clairvaux, noblemen such as and William, At the end are named present among them, master of chivalry. (Orchestral music playing) On the 12 pages of manuscript, written on goatskin parchment, are all the recommendations for members The rhythm of prayers the care required or the food MALE VOICE: You are to eat meat NARRATOR: down to the last detail. Because unlike monks, the knights cannot fast They must maintain to be ready for battle. MALE VOICE: from the great services can avoid getting up with the permission It's a really incredible the fact that inside there is a military part... There's even a military code inside of a religious order. A little further, reads... that the participants will bring the Christian church MALE VOICE: We believe that was born in the holy land thanks to divine Providence. This means that this without committing a sin, kill the enemies of the cross. For this reason, the right to be called For the first time, that one can kill and that its armed branch The order of the temple. It was the Council of Troyes which marked the birth and transformed the community gathered around Hugues de Payns into a structure To some people was actually almost heretical. One of the English chroniclers by the name of called them, The Council of Troyes a new era And the fame immediately spreads After the council of Troyes because this new order to the western world. Especially of course of the western world that had found a way to invest their donations in something that was different from the traditional Donations began to grow, They grew constantly and quickly in very few years and in the 30's already they are powerful in the East. They are starting to build They became Europe's since the days Rome had collapsed so it's the first in about six or 700 years. This was a really radical shift. You had a permanent defending Christendom, defending Christian interests. Once the donations of land they were able A medieval knight of a modern-day A fully armed knight was an awesome You needed to run. These were the elite troops. The Special Forces It was at this time, the first symbols of recognition on which their legend would gradually be built. The initial knights weren't the Poor Fellow Soldiers and the Temple of Solomon. They were literally poor. Just the clothes they wore, their swords and a few horses. So after the Council of Troyes, you get massive donations and all of a sudden So the white surcoat We would call it but to a medieval person This long white mantle is precisely the mark of the since this Red Cross shed by Christ therefore the commitment in his turn to lay down his life and shed his blood and the kingdom of Jerusalem. The mission of is to defend the Holy Land. They must not only but also how to make new weapons organize their movements, and build strongholds Thanks to the donations, the Order of the Temple The Templar Order The most famous To be recruited as a brother someone would normally be they'd have been so they'd already have the functions of If you were not from but from a free background, or from a family of merchants you would generally as a Templar Sergeant. Templar Sergeants could fight, but it's from their ranks their ship builders, their estate managers, people The third type who have been and act as chaplains When the applicant he commits himself and the obligations take place The absolutely decisive moment is when the Templar's mantle is put around Here, he truly enters And then, immediately, he swears to respect poverty, obedience and he also swears to fight for the holy land. We sometimes refer to this it's something quite essential knight, sergeant, or chaplain, whether in the West ideally competes in the defense It's an entry into brotherhood, an entry into an Order, hence the importance the importance of the sword Gradually, Templar houses were created in Western Europe. The brothers live there the guidelines of the Temple To prepare to fight in the East and to grow the wealth to finance the Holy War. A commandery is a large building with common buildings, and above all, a chapel. The commandery is where and performs the canonical The county of Champagne, Burgundy, Provence, Auvergne, Ile de France saw the birth of networks and commanderies The network formed quite quickly The commanderies and to recruit locally. Their establishment, their daily relationship also served to feed In 1136, Hugues De Payns, dies after returning He is replaced by Robert de Craon who brilliantly organizes and management which continue to develop 10 years after events are accelerating. On March the 29th, 1139, Pope Innocent II which will go down in history. A document which bears &quot;Omne Datum Optimum,&quot; the 3 Latin words MALE VOICE: Every good grace descends from above, from the Father of Light, or shade of variation. We exhort you to fight the and as reward, we allow you all the spoils without anyone having a share of them. And we declare that with all its assets acquired the kings and the princes, and guardianship According to this text, not only can the Templars during battles against but they place themselves under The Pope himself. MALE VOICE: No one can force you but we confirm to you of the tithes given to you So that you may have and care for your souls, for the practice of and giving of the you may admit clerics We grant you the power in all the places so you and your relatives and be buried there, for it is bad for your morals on their way to church, should mingle and those who keep The order of the Temple will will have the right without going through train its own priests, build its own churches, and anyone who questions will be excommunicated. The Templars were not subject to the authority no Archbishops, no Bishops, except for the Pope himself. This gave the order a great deal at least within It also stirred up resentment among the Archbishops, and who felt the order had and wasn't responsive Over the following years, will further strengthen given to the Templars. In 1144, the faithful were expressly to the mission It was stipulated that the Pope to the benefactors MALE VOICE: He who has God has entrusted to them and who has established a bond and allowed them to make will receive a reduction on the penances he has incurred. Huge tracks of land were given But even small grants of land farms, water mills, If somebody wanted they would accept everything. No donation was too large because it was all of keeping the Christian It was very good for a Christian to donate to an order it was good for your soul it minimized and ensured you went when the time came. In 1145, a new papal bull the right to bury their brothers and to travel freely So from 1129 to 1146 we could compare them going from a small startup Even today It was completely unprecedented for a small group of people It had never happened before. But while the Templar enterprise in the East, the situation has deteriorated. Defeated in Damascus in 1129, in Ba'rin in 1137, in Tecua in 1139, and especially in Edessa in 1144 where it is said that 30,000 The failures of the Crusaders These weren't the setbacks but of the army which were starting perhaps a few dozen Templars, but these setbacks were bitter. The Templars still lacked and the qualities of Order and were not really imposed. In the face of these defeats and the threats to Christians Pope Eugene the Third With the papal bull he called for a new crusade. Bernard de Clairvaux himself is in charge of mobilizing On March the 31st, 1146, at Vezelay in Burgundy, he preached the journey by promising to those the absolution of all sins. Among the many sovereigns who joined the 2nd crusade, was Louis the Seventh, and his wife To help in their endeavor, they turned to those The Knights Templar! In 1147, Louis the Seventh from the order of the Temple for the first time They already have resources to help the king arming ships, etc. These are the Templars protectors, guides, and the crusade route They suffered very harsh and it was the Templars led by marshal Evrard des Bars who will become grand master, who saved the royal army. Louis VII is not the only one Conrad the Third, also made his way with nearly 20,000 men But from the first the armies of the two kings against the Muslims. Mount Cadmus... Dorylaeum... Inab. Defeats follow, And the deaths pile up. Financing these losing battles is beginning to cost So, to find the necessary money, Louis VII needs help. He will turn once again the Knights Templar. When the Crusade Louis turns to the master &quot;Can you help us?&quot; So the Grand Master and gets the money This is the first time effectively as bankers They're not just supporting the interests of the Church and fighting for Christ They are now, by the time also financially very powerful. And literally Despite financial assistance the troops of the King of France were unable to recover any After three years of fighting, the two sovereigns give up. A crusade for nothing. Which will nevertheless benefit the Order of the Temple. The second crusade It ended with nothing at all. Mostly because the presence of Conrad III revealed to be a problem. They disagreed They made all the possible like taking the siege which ended up badly with a lot of money spent. He had to ask in order to go back to France. The defeat of the second crusade probably helped the Templars. They had lent money to the King. They were the forces that surely ended well The Knights Templar had shown by loaning money and also reorganizing they had shown how This would not be forgotten The Second Crusade will be And Louis the Seventh greatly weakened financially, However, his ordeal contributes to the growth of the Knights Templar. He returned from the Holy Land with a lofty idea of what the For him, this order shines and it has no equivalent He gives them income he cedes to them that becomes the great This is a king who shows of the sovereigns for since it is less than 30 years and the King of France of the Knights of the Temple. During the Second Crusade, the Templars were able to supply their own contingents whilst continuing their work they were also able to afford massive loans to support the King of France's By the end of the 12th century the Templars had become a We don't know precisely but there were probably about in the crusader states. But with a much larger and other employees In Western Europe possibly an even larger brother Sergeants, all there to facilitate to the Holy Land. The Templars developed but I think they were just At the beginning of the the order of the Temple Supported by Popes and Kings, the Order accumulates building commanderies and castles in the East. Its ranks The reign of these was only beginning. Jerusalem, mid-12th century. Since the taking of the city the Christian armies attempt in the Holy Land. At the time, located consisted the county of Tripoli Surrounded on all sides and facing fighting in the region Among the knights certain warriors emblazoned with a red cross the Knights Templar. Both monk and soldier, they are members created at the beginning under the high authority the Order of the Temple. - (Horses neighing) Their mission: to defend Christians In just 30 years, had become increasingly popular among the kings and peoples NICHOLAS: knights were extremely competent but they were also They might embark on things like single-handedly attacking they might refuse The Knights Templar The fact that they were also meant they were a lot more sober They were just as competent, but they were a much more They didn't break ranks. They were expected to work to fight in a sober They weren't there to show off, they were there The various Muslims commanders as the most dangerous troops An indicator of just how feared is that often, after a battle, The Muslim commander they were too dangerous. VO: At their head, is a knight The first of them, founder died in 1136. Robert de Craon and then Evrard des Barres In 1152, a fourth Grand Master Bernard de Tremeley. It was he, who in 1153, was to distinguish himself the capture of Ascalon. At the time, within the Kingdom of Jerusalem. Attacks could therefore against the Christian states. For five months, the army tried to retake the city. The troops were composed of who occupied the Holy Land, and members of military orders Among them, had come to lend a hand to the army (Dramatic music) (Distant shouting) PHILIPPE (in French): that protected Egypt, in a way. And the Christians the southern border of Jerusalem and had long held the idea NICHOLAS: In 1153, the Kingdom of Jerusalem The siege, at the start of this, It was when the commander whether it could succeed at all. They decided to stage The Knights Templar (Distant commotion) PHILIPPE (in French): through a breach, The Muslims, once the Templars closed in around them. It is believed that about following their master (Tense instrumental) (Shouting) (Final grunt) (Eerie music) PHILIPPE: So, the Templars to take Ascalon. But Ascalon was obviously and since so much no doubt much has also been said about the driving the Templars played there. VO: The Second Crusade would further advance the fame ready to die PHILIPPE (in French): of the 12th century, the Templar began to take in the armies and other eastern Latin states. The Knights Templar from the middle gained considerable popularity For the faithful, being buried associating with a brotherhood are all pious deeds, One hopes in this way all the more so is committed to the defense to the defense We see more and more donations a heritage is being built up and networked commanderies in many parts of the West, which is proof that more and more writers are beginning to talk about. (Mysterious music) VO: In Paris, in the vaults there are millions of documents, and relating Perfectly preserved documents from reserves They have provided new evidence of the frenzy of donations that took hold in Europe very soon after (Fast-paced stringed music) The first document It is an appeal for donations GHISLAIN (in French): indicating that the Templars are the defenders of the faith but that they don't have And that in order they need the faithful to providing them It allows all those who give their own goods, their own money to have a pardon they would have to make This is the purpose a generalized contribution VO: The Order of the Temple from all parts The Templars themselves contribute to the development by renouncing their possessions This document shows a knight who has just entered the Temple and who decides (Reads) &quot;In the name of the holy I, Raoul de Ressons, for the salvation of my soul have pledged to God and to the house 80 hectares of land. I have conceded that in peace. From here, I receive and give myself as its servant.&quot; GHISLAIN (in French): it's both the contribution and also the entrance This act indicates that he entered We have someone he left with with his Count Raoul, and then he entered He gave what he had, So, it's really a document that came back It's super spectacular, (Arabic style music) VO: French nobles also The proof is this document and signed by Henri II, He decides to make (Man reads) &quot;I, Henry, notify the present and future, that my father Count Thibaud had given seven silver marcs I, for the salvation have given to them PS24 12 from the Saint-Remi fair I granted them that they shall And in order I have commanded and that it be confirmed GHISLAIN (in French): that weighs on sales It's a trade tax, in fact. Champagne fairs are booming, and it gives them which allows them VO: The people, the knights, Richard I, King of England will also be a fervent defender GHISLAIN (in French): of Richard the Lionheart, King of England, who validates of all the goods since (Man reads) King of the English, and Count of Anjou. We confirm the donations made to the brothers of Solomon's Temple land, villages, or men. They will pay neither tax duty This act is addressed seneschals, my agents and my faithful GHISLAIN (in French): This act or in the form to all the financial of the Duchy of Normandy. (Dramatic music) This set of documents clearly shows In each kingdom the sovereigns and within each principality, there are particular donations according to the income for the Templars. A whole system that is both set up at very different levels. VO: Thanks to these donations, the network where the members of the Order responsible for growing is being rapidly expanded. Over time, the leaders learn to function as administrators and land holdings. (Dramatic music) GHISLAIN: There were many donors a plot of land here, a large farm there, sometimes And so they had to manage this so over time, we see there are exchanges of land. There's a parcel so we give up another one there. It was something very common. The commanderies near land They used the road networks, not only but also for navigation, possibly on rivers. The roads allowed them to the Holy Land through the ports of Marseille, the equipment, They still had to be close because the ultimate goal to the ports NICHOLAS: We don't know how many but somewhere in the region These would have been spread from Scotland in the North right the way down or the Christian Kingdoms GHISLAIN: you have 30, 40, 50 people so we're talking SEAN: We could think as having some eastern The Order in the East designed to defend In the West, however, the Templar properties They were financial centers to support the operations There was kind of a combination and business in the West, They were sheep farmers. They were very heavily involved and the cloth trade. They ran orchards, You name it, If there was a way the Templars would be involved. It sounds like but they weren't. They were astute businessmen and did everything to support VO: In England today, there are still today traces of such as the Cressing Temple. One of its barns is known to be in the world. PHILIP: Cressing Temple that was given in England It was donated in 1137 It quickly became and perhaps the most important It comprised It's situated in a strategically so it's halfway between London It was one of the most (Dramatic music) VO: After the Cressing Temple, donations to the Temple Order Commanderies then appear Lincolnshire, Norfolk and then gradually throughout PHILIP: It was the 13th century that saw the peak Henry III of England, was a keen supporter and more and more nobles were mimicking We can say that the Order possessed of landed estates in England. They had 141 domains We're talking about something that comprises out of which 30,000 acres The Templars were in England. They were really trying of productivity They were exhibiting to what we see today These were that were bound to invest through very rational types On each manor, called a bailiff or a steward that was in charge and sowing local crops, He was also responsible both the arable produce (Mysterious music) VO: In the National Archives located in Kew near London, are the only archives that give a precise idea of the holdings and the money they generated This information, was kept on scrolls that have been preserved Much like accounting ledgers, these scrolls the quantities produced and the sums of money spent PHILIP: recording The bailiff would tell him how much was spent this year, how much was harvested how many new animals were born, how many animals were purchased, and how many were transferred The clerk would just record it Those clerks They would be usually They would dip it into an ink, and they would execute it in very fine Once the entire membrane they would be given Once the whole account they would just stitch and would create this huge roll. VO: Here the accounts of Temple Bruer in Lincolnshire PHILIP: The domain is located on which is much better suited rather than crop production. (Man reads) &quot;We harvested three quarters of rye, 46 quarters of dredge, PHILIP: Even there, we see that the crop production. There were some pockets rye, and especially oats, because on this type of land you really want to concentrate But it was the livestock sector that played on that particular manor. Temple Bruer in terms of the number of sheep. It stocked 4,500 sheep which was Sheep were very, very profitable was one of the most It was both and of fine quality. It attracted lots of merchants, VO: Another account roll also located in Lincolnshire were not content only in local markets. They were also present on (Man reads) &quot;We produced which together On this scroll, for example, the buyer of the wool the company, Ballardi, &quot;one of the most important of the time.&quot; With the sales each Templar commandery generated (Man reads) eight shillings, PHILIP: If we take of the Templars in a given year, in an average year, to generate the income This is something into a six-digit figure today We're talking about something actually exceed NICHOLAS: in western Europe were truly substantial. They had enormous land holdings making them anywhere in Western Christendom. Their incomes far greater VO: The income was transferred at Temple Church, where the Order's possessions were consolidated Over the years, the members improved their expertise and the management So much so, that they became (Tense instrumental) SEAN: They kept their accounts They were very cautious And they also worked really hard The Templars have been described as being that did the most for the rise That sounds a bit materialistic, the Templars were sworn and everything they did That was defending the Holy Land. NICHOLAS: The Order people who wanted to fight, from a range including people or artisan skills, With this, they were able conduct huge building programs, but also to become so able, in fact, that they were employed by to run their treasuries. PHILIP: The Temple Church, and also in the eyes of would be considered You could either deposit your money, your jewels here, and you can be quite sure but also all the profits flowing from different estates GHISLAIN (in French): Obviously, with safes, hutches, made of wood which were transported to financial center. VO: In France, as in England, money circulated to the regional and then to Paris. This is where the headquarters in the Temple tower. GHISLAIN (in French): at the headquarters of the Order where they had both cash The great tower served as a sort of safe the king first of all. Everything that was not spent and that came back and the guards of the kingdom, went back to Paris and was stored The policy towards the Templars didn't change one iota throughout the 12th That is to say, for Philip II, who entrusted them and all the other sovereigns the king's treasure That's where the money was taken And also, in the only accounting for the end of the 13th century, we see that apart from the king, So, private depositors put out of convenience, as the management by the Temple brothers on site. VO: This document is one of the rare few (Man reads) treasurer of the house certify that we have received from the executors of the will of Mr. Jean, the sum of PS9,000, a sum which the same cardinal on condition to support operations VO: This is a receipt, signed by the treasurer which certifies a sum equivalent These few lines the amount of money GHISLAIN (in French): but some receipts show that there were probably apart from who were still there But the brothers of the Temple who daily take care and disbursing to their so-called clients. (Fast-paced drum instrumental) VO: The purpose is to fund the needs of the war GHISLAIN (in French): from Paris. So, they go through they're sent to Marseille and from there, VO: The establishment of secure and safes enabled the Templars specifically intended to use on their journey SEAN: where you could You could deposit money and when you went on pilgrimage, You go to the Templar house &quot;I've deposited certain numbers I need to get money out to fund VO: the pilgrim could travel on his journey. (Arabic style music) And in this way, the Templars make pilgrimage and, above all, safer. With a network of strongholds the Templars are able SEAN: They were able to hire and they ended up building of medieval Castles like Atlit, possibly the Templar's was actually It was completely impregnable and it even withstood attack That was how strong The walls were something This was a way of announcing were the mightiest power that wasn't a king. They were a real force These castles NICHOLAS: Templar castles (Heroic music) You've got which were there or to act as staging points You've also got many castles Often these could act the middle and a consolidation point VO: Trapessac, Chastel Blanc, Chastel Hernault, There are dozens throughout the region. Today, remains can be found Cyprus, Jordan, These traces of the Order of the Temple PHILIPPE (in French): in the 12th century, where the Knights Templar was located in the north in a region on the borders where the Knights Templar at least half a dozen castles. On the pilgrimage route that connects the port of Jaffa the Templars are known to have in a regular fashion - about a day's walk VO: But despite accumulated in the West, the need for funding for the war The Latin states are under And with more threats more food, more weapons, and more castles NICHOLAS: the numbers of Knights, as well as was absolutely enormous. The build cost was 1.1 million bezants. In modern day money that but we're looking at sums substantially larger than to build that one castle. The Templars in the Crusade estates. That's before we start talking about the ports the pilgrimage routes, and the other things that (Arabic style singing) VO: At the end the military situation Especially because in the midst tearing each other apart a new leader is on the rise: Saladin. Born in present-day Iraq, Saladin is the founder that succeeded and in conquering Yemen. He quickly establishes himself to the eastern Latin states, and in particular, MARINA: Probably was not his main goal. But when he conquered Egypt, of course, this strip of land that included was already surrounded So, it seemed really difficult VO: At the time, was called Guy de Lusignan. The kingdom is composed each controlled by its own lord. Among them, At its head, known for his acts of violence. In 1187, he attacked who passed through his territory on their way and plundered This event triggers the anger To take revenge, he orders an attack capital of Oultrejordain. The King of Jerusalem senses that the situation He turns to his closest advisor. Gerard de Ridefort, 10th Grand Master PHILIPPE (in French): was a very important man Faced with the threat Guy de Lusignan as his ambassador VO: The king of Jerusalem with the Count of Tripoli But on his way, will prove to be reckless. (Horses neighing) Over-confident, by mobilizing only 140 knights. Badly underestimating he finds himself The battle, named after where it takes place, is a true massacre. PHILIPPE (in French): most of the Templars engaged and very few escaped, VO: Gerard de Ridefort, far from the teachings of at the head decided to listen Offended to have been defeated he pushes Guy de Lusignan, to counterattack. As Saladin's troops the Christians make their way PHILIPPE: Guy de Lusignan deciding to go after Saladin with the entire Jerusalem army, They engaged in the middle of summer And there, VO: It is in Hattin, that one of the 12th century Exhausted and parched, the Christian troops to hold their own PHILIPPE (in French): the battle opened at Hattin in the worst conditions (Distant neighing) (Distant shouting) The Templars but their defeat was total. There were many dead, MARINA: We know that a lot took an order to behead Templars that had fallen (Solemn music) This is probably because for their religion, PHILIPPE: The Templars but the master was taken for Saladin to use him so that the brotherhood of Gaza and Daron. That's how, in 1187, the Kingdom of Jerusalem and the master of the Temple carries in this debacle, a significant share NICHOLAS: The Kingdom It didn't have the depth to be able to raise new forces. At Hattin, the Christian army it was annihilated. There was nothing from conquering the remainder and Jerusalem VO: Less than a century in the First Crusade in 1099... the Holy City NICHOLAS: When news at the battle of Hattin it caused a tremendous outcry. The Pope is said to have died (Solemn music) VO: In Jerusalem, to leave the Holy City and the residence of the Temple Al-Aqsa Mosque. MARINA: and the fall of Jerusalem, all the Christian forces, were at their lowest point. They needed more people in order to help So, this was To sustain the few and to enforce them. They needed help to survive. (Tense drum instrumental) VO: This help will arrive Financed by a tax and collected this crusade Philippe II, King of France, arrives in the Holy Land Richard the Lionheart, arrives in June with 200 ships As soon as he arrives, he manages to have Robert de Sable, of the Order of the Temple. (Dramatic music) VO: For several months, the crusaders fought to recapture the lands lost During this third crusade, fell into the hands who also managed to retake Ascalon, Jaffa, Arsuf, Caesarea, Tortosa, Maraclea and, above all, Acre. But Richard the Lionheart fail to retake Jerusalem. NICHOLAS: The Third Crusade for Saladin or for Richard. On one hand, yes, and therefore But on the other hand, the cost of maintaining his hold had been extreme. Viewed from it also wasn't a success. He hadn't gained Jerusalem, VO: On September 2, 1192, Richard the Lionheart signed the Treaty of Ramla. The Kingdom of Jerusalem but without Jerusalem. Acre becomes its capital. (Mysterious music) Saladin dies the following year. Throughout the 13th century, tried at all costs to defend along the Mediterranean coast NICHOLAS: While the Templars what's left the West continues to flourish, at least The Templars are able therefore more troops to the East. However, in the second half particularly with the rise called the Mamluks in Egypt, increasing pressure slowly they begin SEAN: throughout the 13th century ever since Saladin In fact, the Christian kingdom VO: Despite their prestige and their devotion despite the money and troops that continue to arrive the Templars lose more In the West, the first rumblings Matthew Paris, and renowned historian recounts some events during which was indeed called into question. In this text, Mathew Paris claims of the Count of Artois, who was engaged in the attack According to him, the Templars refused preferring to wait for the rest sparking his fury. (Man reads) Oh long-concealed fraud, This whole land of the Orient if the deceit of the Temple and others who proclaim had not impeded us laymen. The Knights Templar are afraid that their dominance, will eventually expire.&quot; VO: In the West, is beginning to vex. Several archives between the aristocrats Here, Louis IX, King of France, recounts a conflict and Thibaud IV, King of Navarre over their acquisitions and Brie. (Man reads) &quot;I, Louis the IX, declare that peace between our dear cousin, and the Templars. And that the Templars shall in his county nor in his fiefdoms VO: In this additional document, Amaury de la Roche, commander agrees to pay a tax (Man reads) Commander of the Temple declare that Thibaut IV, Count of Champagne and Brie, has granted us on the transport of We accept that if we will pay the tax according NICHOLAS: the donations but criticism Some landholders towards the Templars. They see the Templars Infringing their rights, (Men shouting) The Templars on the crusades and that too Why should we send money to them Their vacation, the conquest is slipping away. So, the Templars task is to prove that they still VO: At the end the Knights Templar, who still have considerable want to believe that is still possible. Created to protect the Knights Templar at any cost. If they fail, the Temple Order might Acre. A city situated north of Jerusalem. In the month of April, 1291, the Mamluk Sultan, lays siege to the city Inside, are 30,000 inhabitants and a few hundred These fighters are members a brotherhood born at Their mission: To defend Christians But nearly 200 years and despite eight crusades, Christian holdings in the east Surrounded by Mongols and Muslims they are under constant attack. Acre is one of the last major And it is here that the seat of the Templars (horse whinnying) On May 18th, 1291, the Sultan's soldiers Guillaume de Beaujeu, Grand Master of the Order, Ten days later, The Holy Land was lost. It was at its greatest extent Ever since it had been getting as they lost land The loss of Acre was a disaster. Everybody was slaughtered. The fall of Acre in 1291 is The few towns that are left they are evacuated At the end the Muslims retake all Christian The surviving Templars retreat which becomes The Templars' retreat to Cyprus was not the end of their They soon started to lay plans seeking for options When they left Acre, the Knights had already and the Order's treasury The Order's archives And in Cyprus, was elected Jacques de Molay. Jacques de Molay. 23rd Grand Master Now, in his 40's, having spent 20 years Jacques de Molay is a warrior, this is not a man of diplomacy, he is not good at politics, He believes the Temple Order The war to defend Jerusalem, As the Knights Templar Jacques de Molay now has The Templars were founded to defend the Holy Land, so the loss of the Holy Land the Order had no reason (music reaches a crescendo) As early as 1293, Jacques de Molay to convince the Pope that it was possible For 15 years, to maintain an armed presence ready to go back into battle. In 1306, an event will alter The new Pope, Clement V, to write a report on for possibly launching When Clement the fifth to ask his opinion we can assume he was very happy that this policy he had was going to have This report is kept at The words of the Temple's De Molay believes Christians &quot;...We must organize to destroy the enemies If we could have twelve and five thousand foot soldiers, we will be able to recover I also recommend that you arm I will arrange for money With his field experience, he knows that small expeditions it will take an army of boats He sends a report and leaves Cyprus arriving in France Jacques de Molay ready to do anything necessary Although he does not he will never again He is the 23rd Grand Master and he will be the last. Behind Molay's back, two men have been plotting to realize one of the most To bring down (dramatic horn music) These two men are Philip IV, also known as &quot;Philip the Fair&quot; and Guillaume de Nogaret, (music reaches a crescendo) At the time, Philip the Fair He is known as the &quot;Iron king&quot;. The personality was a mystery than the mystery A man of and an appalling temperament. Philip is both authoritarian He manipulates public opinion. A modern king. Alongside Philip the Fair Guillaume de Nogaret is a very He manages economic affairs, politics, with bishops. He's a kind of who has a global vision The reasons which drove to destroy the Order The first, Philip the Fair had a very both towards the South and Lyon and towards so he is in a permanent war with Flanders and this costs him In 1307, France was The king was in debt up to his neck The French Crown's finances and the Templars were If he can take the Order down, Or that's what he thought. For Philip the fair, given the disastrous the money of the Knights Templar However the main reason to attack the Order What the king is seeking at the is to assert his authority and to the detriment of one man: The Pope. The Order of the Temple to obtain above all else, since the beginning Absolute power. Philip the Fair a new kind of state where the king is above anyone. Which means that a king is the main power in his land and that he receives Not from the Pope. There was no need the Pope as a middleman Of course, the Templars in this new modern world They were a part of the past. If Philip's looking for a way to perhaps the Templars, with a substantial presence become a viable target, particularly given the collapse in the crusader states The Temple Affair was devised to weaken the Papacy. It was aimed against an Order which is the best hope and one of its privileged To take down the Templars, Philip the Fair carefully formulated their plan. Several months before Jacques they secretly warned that scandalous rumours were According to these rumours, the Templars Heresy is one of the most it is a crime against faith. The Templars were accused of maintaining where one would encourage to indulge in sodomy The Templars, instead of would offend it on Rumours had been circulating the Order had been going. Whether there was any truth They were also They were in their own bubble So, once these accusations I think the secrecy because people didn't know in their initiation rituals. Guillaume de Nogaret accumulates false evidence a list of possible accusations It is in 1306 these rumours that are Arriving in France, Jacques de Molay but is unaware they originate He senses that his He decides to counterattack. Jacques de Molay led by the pope himself, into the honour of the Order. De Molay was warned but because he was he thought and for 200 years they had been. They were answerable I think Jacques De Molay He thought, Nobody can touch me But what Jacques de Molay is that Philip the Fair have no intention of waiting In the greatest secrecy, they have already drawn up Several original copies are kept in Written in Latin, the words were chosen And the charges are In the arrest order, five main justifications First, something implausible that happens during &quot;...A brother who is received The master then shows the figure of our and makes him spit on it Secondly there were for the candidate to The officiant kisses him on the back, just above the buttocks, Thirdly, Templars would be to engage in so as not to unite &quot;...The Master tells him that, if a brother wants to sleep he is obliged to accept...&quot; They were advised to commit They are also accused something in the realm And the final justification: The brother chaplains would not consecrate the host meaning, not an orthodox A set of heterodox practices to justify an accusation &quot;Whereas the truth cannot be and since a vehement suspicion we have decided that all members shall be arrested, held prisoner and reserved and that all their property, shall be seized, and faithfully preserved.&quot; The arrest order indicates that the operation On September 14th, 1307, the Royal Order was sent and delivered in person The king's had to prepare one of the of the Middle Ages. One month later, throughout and at precisely the same time, the king's police arrive of the Order of the Temple. The Templars were on the orders of Philip the Fair on Friday the 13th It is thought to be the origin It certainly was They were all arrested It speaks of and considerable logistics, because the Templars Jacques de Molay, the 23rd Grand Master, The soldiers appeared at dawn on October 13th, at the gates of the temple, just outside the French capital, and arrested all 138 Templars From that moment on, Philip The Fair knew that what they were doing Philip was technically acting The Templars therefore, he had no right But he claimed to be acting by arresting the Order. That was how he justified it. In anticipation the King's men must obtain quick To achieve this, Philip the fair have an unmatched method: Torture. (fire crackling) (gasps) The interrogations They weren't officially (ropes creaking) (groans) So they would use the rack. People were stretched or arms would be dislocated. (rope creaks) (groans) Squeezing fingers (cries) (screams) Although they couldn't they could do pretty much The record of the interrogation is preserved in the National on a scroll of 44 goat skins, and on which are transcribed the confessions On the scrolls, the royal notaries in charge are identified. We have a very short summary of an interrogation with Did they spit on the (screams) During their initiation did they kiss the candidate (screams) Were they instructed to unite (screams) So, to be clear, they are fabricating in order to be able to take In the middle of the scroll of the most important prisoner Jacques de Molay. &quot;In the name of Christ amen, that the year of the Lord 1307, the 24th day appeared before us grand master present in person, who swore to speak the truth pure, Even today, no one knows how badly to make him say transcribed in the interrogation &quot;I, Jacques de Molay, was admitted to the Temple And the one who admitted me and commanded me to deny Christ And I, reluctantly, did so. I was commanded but I spat on the ground. Only once. I was never told to unite and I never did.&quot; Jacques de Molay agrees to say, or rather said under torture, he was asked to deny Christ, and that he did so That was enough for &quot;The Grand Master of the Order Depending on the Templar's level they almost all confessed. In Paris, of the 138 only 4 refused to confess to 121 confessed 111 to having spat on the cross. 109 to having carried out above the buttocks. Elsewhere in France, some Templars also confessed to having worshipped What is a Baphomet? The descriptions given It could have feet, or not, have two feet, have four feet, be bearded, be oozing, have two faces... which shows the imagination In all the regions of France all Templars will confess You could say: &quot;the sheer proves that some Or say: &quot;They're being tortured The link between torture and The Templars said what Philip wanted to hear. Thanks to all these confessions Philip the Fair achieved their first victory. They announce to all of Europe the result of their the Templars are heretics Pope Clement V is cornered. Although the King of France these confessions are for the Pope to stand by On November 22nd, 1307, he publishes the bull which is addressed to all &quot;I, Pope Clement the fifth, demand and exhort prepares to give the order all the Templars as well as their movable on the same day.&quot; Clement V was confronted with an almost impossible situation. The Templars many of them and he probably at least a part because the Templars of France, they were already condemned, and there was no way the trial, and for many of them, The rest of Europe's sovereigns are sceptical of Although members of the Order and tried the conclusion nearly everywhere No one finds anything When the papacy starts the trial the Templar are put on trial in England parts of Germany, the main finding is that no Templars confessed. In Spain, the king and the There was a trial In Venice, the trial was in &quot;Ours are very honourable&quot;. We are absolutely sure that And there was The king of Cyprus The most glaring example The police were unable to cross There had been no torture and But Philip the Fair had no intention of letting disrupt their The machine and there was no stopping it. It didn't really matter weren't admitting to heresy, the guys in France were During the first six the King of France put pressure on the Pope. They insist on the seriousness and assert again and again and that the king has acted The Pope is not fooled, he suspended the interrogators We therefore had a sort of that was established between the Pope This is the period of tension In the summer of 1308, Clement V decides to take back He appoints interrogators and asks Philip The Fair The King of France's men to send to Poitiers The highest dignitaries, are interrogated in (dramatic music) In the Vatican's apostolic which holds all the documents the reports from the cardinals in charge of the investigation can still be found. The exchanges between and the prisoners are recorded &quot;When they asked him, seeing why he had agreed to do things he said that to enter the order, In the margins, &quot;Sodomy&quot; &quot;Initiation rite&quot; &quot;Idol worship&quot; The Pope's men try to determine whether the crimes alleged However, Philip the fair to question the Templars Threatened, the prisoners are All confess. The Templars who speak know the Royal Police and they will be returning so considering the torture and the torments it's likely they did not try and in the end, confessing the minimum, When the Templars in the spring of the Pope realized that which formed the basis belonged to a practice. The document says: or &quot;modus ordini nostri&quot;, therefore a practice, but which had no connection with So the Pope the Templars may have been because they tolerated but that these faults At the end of these Pope Clement V decides concerning the dignitaries seen by his Cardinals The original of this document, remained lost until The statement leaves Pope Clement V gives absolution to the highest members The wrongs they had allegedly and expunged by the &quot;For Jacques De Molay, we have decided according to the canonical we bring him back we bring him back to and we allow him once again to have The pontifical commission of instructing the trial was set up in 1309. Its members heard who returned to testify, but this time not before but before of the men As they can testify freely without being tortured or being held by most of the Templars tell how their initiations Dozens of Templars testify describing to the cardinals and the deprivations Locked in a well without food they bled, This is totally contradictory and the Templars admit none of because they say that these (music reaches a crescendo) Little by little, the defence Faced with the increasing Philip the Fair decide to strike back. Hard. Philip the Fair seized upon this saying that had been reconciled, and now that they denied, They returned to their heresy. And for returning they deserve to be (crowd cheers) In May 1310, 54 Templars who retracted were burned at the stake (crowd cheers) (music reaches The movement to defend launched by the Templars, The threat of burning Templars who retract their testimonies No one wants to defend no one wants to tell the truth. King Philip the Fair (fire crackles) Philip the Fourth's were intended primarily He was telling the Pope that and to accept the fact that the The Templar affair becomes far In spite of his conviction the persistence of directly threatens the Pope Clement realized that The accusations and had spread around Europe Everybody was shocked to hear the great Christian knights, were doing all of these strange in their initiation ceremonies On October 16, 1311, the Council of Vienna convened. Its 170 members rule on A commission reviews against members of the Order But Philip the Fair that the Templars He goes in person Six months after the beginning Clement V capitulates He is the superior of the Order and therefore, he alone The Pope couldn't I think he reluctantly said: Clement really had no choice Philip the Fair was breathing I think that the Pope the whole affair die down. In order to do so, that were already condemned. It was more convenient that they disband somehow. On March 22nd, 1312, the pope signs the papal bull officially dissolving &quot;Considering the grave scandal and the evil deeds perpetrated I have decided to abolish, not without bitterness and pain, the Order its state, its uniform and I subject it expressly forbidding anyone to wear its uniform and Anyone who contravenes will incur the sentence Less than two months later, stipulates the decision regarding &quot;All their belongings, in any part of the world, their villages, lands, barns, places, rights of justice, and all other movable that depend on are to be turned into the Order It is therefore who recovers but another called the Order (music reaches a crescendo) 192 years after its creation and less than 5 years of all the Templars of France the Order of the Temple Two years later, the fate of the dignitaries Among them: Hugues de Pairaud, Geoffroy de Gonneville, Master of the Order Geoffroy de Charnay, Master of the Order in Normandy and the 23rd Jacques De Molay. Jacques de Molay has been to see the Pope in person, he has remained silent saying: &quot;I am waiting and to explain to him But the Pope won't be coming. Instead He sends his cardinals to communicate and the last dignitaries On March 11th, 1314, De Molay and were summoned by the Pope's men. The Templar Grand Master for seven years I think he was clearly And eventually he was given or be burnt at the stake. (crowd cheers) (horse and cart noises) As the 4 dignitaries they are brought to the square to hear their sentence. In front of the population, they are officially sentenced (crowd jeers) Faced with injustice, Jacques De Molay decides to He denies the accusations De Molay and Geoffroy de Charnay before the Commission, before the king's men signing their death warrant. Philip the Fair, King of France, is immediately informed Without waiting for the approval he has a pyre erected at Jacques De Molay are burned at the stake De Molay refusing and being burnt is a tragic end, but it's also hugely in that his willingness is almost the only thing to get one over His one powerful card left (dramatic crescendo) On that day, is retold in a poem a chronicler of the &quot;The master unclothed They took him But he said to them as follows: 'Lords, at least And to God make prayer I see here my judgment God knows who is wrong Misfortune will come to those God will avenge our death, Know that all those By us will suffer!'...&quot; He says that God will recognize and those who have done evil, In other words For his own and, above all, to which he had Long after, that these words pronounced were at the origin of the curse that would strike those and that of Jacques de Molay French king, Philip the Fair, And indeed, the Pope and Philip died in a hunting The kingdom appeared to have But what happened? The king died very quickly and his three sons And then the kingdom of France France, which was a military And to make matters worse, For many observers the Capetian kings As all the sons of Philip it is almost like like a revenge on behalf (orchestral music crescendo) (militaristic classical music) The heroic end the sudden deaths of Philip the mysteries around the birth, reign and fall of the Knights that for centuries fuelled wild conspiracies about Here we have an Order at the heart of the relationship for a substantial period Here is an order which to many people would An order that was mysterious And here is an order that was ultimately dissolved There is a lot there that So it's never surprised me fabulous stories about Templar or whatever it may be. Having said that, there's very While some still hope to find, a possible hidden treasure and historians continue their related to the history one thing is clear: The Poor Fellow-Soldiers of which later became created by a few devoted knights in 1120 will forever be a legend. (orchestral music crescendo) Subtitling TITRAFILM