Thousands of miles ah ah ah did you hear that let's check someone's running like the Chinese Intel sergeant we got a Chinese soldier i'm chasing him it's a freaking wild door ah ah alert see the him don't let him get away the company commander seems to be Lao Chai and the others quickly sent a few comrades over to take a look. Big brother asked a few people to follow me. It's you guys who are following me. Company commander Wan Lei and Yu Songrong are missing. Who's your arm ? Rogan what's going on Rogan why shoulds damn it. turn on the radio okay dishound hey this is Jason Eagle Eagle this is Jason you copy copy that this is Eagle one SIP wrap Old house, look, they must be reporting, if the demo is not funny, then leave it to you , no problem, big spring , aim at the driver Listen to my command in your head 123 oh my god, can you cheer me up, punch me, do some shooting, your hands are too cold, don't come out with me anymore Jason Jason do you copy Jason do you copy damn something's wrong we need to check their location garter dock This is a good thing. Grandma, this is a good thing. This is still a hardcore thing . The old firewood that just exploded has a plane. Sannuo withdraws . Go back to your hometown . Take him away. Dad i don't kill him. It's useful hurry up . Take that thing report to the base get ah ah ah Brin quick gun ah quick gun train train shoot shoot shoot train train shoot shoot ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Wenmin shoot the gun ah ah ah Paris Paris ah Paris ah Paris ah ah ah Ah, ah, old Chai, Lao Chai, who told you not to shoot, who told you not to shoot, the instructor, that firefighter, you can't stop shooting , then all of us will be exposed. Do you know what the Stoneman, American weapons, and Americans want to say ? He put it away. Hey, take it. Yu Zongrong and Wan Li didn't see it, but I smashed that car. Haha, what did the company commander teach you when you set off ? Come on, come on, come on, comrades, come on, hurry up, this big guy , the company commander . You and the pig, I brought them back to you. Where did they go? You brat, you have grown up. Who told you to run around ? Wu Qinglian's goal has been exposed. Gather everyone, gather quickly, everyone leave. Free up your hands to clean up. I really regret it now . When this kid was brought into the Western Union, he should have been kicked down in the stuffy car until he was unconscious . He was just like the Japanese devils back then. If his legs were not beaten enough , if these Americans were to hit us, our relatives would not end up like this. Let them waste our money. The common people have a pair of US troops coming to the village. The US troops are here. They are dispersed and hidden at the entrance of the village . They are watching our religious media. Give it to me . If only we had this guy to take care of this battle, it would be fine. Which direction did the gunfire come from ? Yun'er, Lao Xiao, Lao Xiao and the others investigated the direction. Could it be that the company commander was walking faster? Brother Ping was leaving quickly. Lao Xiao, Lao Fang. Is there anything going on over there? Follow the money to the house. Let's go to Qin Ye and finish the heavy work along the way . Carry them. How's Dabao going ? Company leader Xiao said this is not the way to Xinxingli. We are going the wrong way . We have to go east . What's the wrong way? Did the folks say how many days it will take to get to Xinyingli? Drivers evacuate quickly. Fighter group of Chinese soldiers request archillery bombardments. Click on the original color to see the pillar. Lifeguard, kill the girl quickly. Leave the second row to me. I will save Lao Xiao and the others. You take the others to Xingxingli first and catch up with us in these two days. Let's meet up at Xixingli then . Erbai , follow me. Tang Jie, the company commander immediately pulled out after the rescue notice . Don't be cold-hearted. I'll be waiting for you in the shadows. Don't worry about your life. Take care of yourself. The first, third and fourth platoons are all marching eastward. The target new manager is to grab it back for me within these two days. It's everyone spread out in Daxia. What are the three of them coming ? I said enemy troops. Enemy troops are coming up. Please keep your voice down. I can hear you. Hey , I said it's both a tank and a tank. It's because of the plane's fault that they treated us as a large force. Fortunately, we encountered them. If we encountered each other in succession, we would have to leave them all here. That's just right . Then why don't we hold off this group of enemies here to buy time for the company commander and instructor to let them catch up? Go west and lay grenades. Prepare to listen to my orders . Kill all the enemies before attacking. Go go go sir i followed their tracks and found them in a north Korean village we got them cornered. Day and night , you bring some people and cover them from below. It's you. Follow me. The rest of the people are following me to support Lao Xiao. The tanks are coming up. Come on , let's go, let's go . Hey, someone , shoot quickly. Brother, something's wrong. There's no leverage. Does the old man still have bullets? The bullet hole is gone. There is only one grenade left . Go go go go go Old Master Feng has fallen into a tough situation . It's really not shabby . It's not shabby. Let's fight with them. Old Feng followed the three The platoon commander is here. Company commander, why are you here ? We still want to hold off the enemy and let you rush to the new county. What nonsense? We have never left our comrades in the 7th company. The submarine cannon should be set up quickly to measure the distance and fire at the target distance. 85 meters ahead on the left , ready. Let's go. Let's go. Company Commander Wan Li, come in quickly . Who asked you to come ? I'm worried about you . You two are so worried. You two will use a big cover to attract some enemy fire . It's Okawa who will fight the tank. I 'll leave it to you . Let's pack up the rest of you and follow me. Watch out on the left you're enemy is coming quickly, everyone needs to leave the gun, Commander, hurry up and take out the medium firepower, monkey firework , damn it we need more firepower we gotta keep bombing sir oh boys are still in village we can't just level the whole blaze it's better than lost cost we need to retreat this crazy Chinese they're like lunatics that won't die damn it order my guys to ball back i'm calling headquarters for air strikes apart hq hq request the air support Pronto Pronto come on we're getting the hell out of here quickly retreat and join the instructor damn these airmen drop boxes all over the place are they blind god damn it always make troubles for us guys look at these air force struggles they are so corky they always drop the boxes mill away from us those bastards so who want to go nobody oh get me yes of course dan no always me do the same thing let's go grass why the fuck is this so bad behind our 300 pairs Where to hide? What's up to has been exposed. If you don't play three cards, there will be no escape. Rich you're right Richard why are you standing underneath i'm talking to you Chinese Chinese ah don't put targets targets come go to bar kill fire go fire go go go go fire ah ah go go go the enemy god is coming up charge charge hey buddy something's going down there let's check it out spread out the coin instructor has a plane there is a plane coin quickly scatter the coin Ahli Ahli hurry up save Ali, save people , salute, comrades, be careful not to fall, be careful , Alian, don't tell me there is a rope on this body, take off your clothes quickly , let me check what's going on here look at these portennies and the hidden should die let's get some following sin hey buddy the boat told us to do some records. Stop , get out of here , sir, I didn't mean to run away. I'm worried about you. I'm afraid something will happen to you too. Stop talking nonsense . Come on, come on. Come on , company commander, take care of me. My mother is not required . Ah ah ah, the golden chain closed the plane , and left in place to rest in place . It's done. Follow me . It's grenade preparation . It's Xiao Linzi. Get rid of that blaster. It's fire fire. Oh yeah. It 's up to cover Da Zhuang Jianhua. It's up to disperse and break out . You said where did this prodigal thing go? It's playing with the palm of your hand day by day. It's not the Americans who are investigating the case, right ? Such a little brat deserves to make such a big fuss. I didn't see the ground covered with iron. Follow me. Ren Ping heard any movement . Isn't it Wanli? Wanli, is it Wanli? If you don't die, get out of here. Come out, Bo Li, listen to me. I'm telling you , how many years will it take for this little orange to grow into a donkey? It's been less than a month since you came out. No one will blame you when you come out. What nonsense are you talking to? Wait until I go in and die. Are you coming out? Wang Li, don't listen to him. You don't know who your brother is? He just complained about your effort to get in. Little bastard, get up. Little bastard, you disobeyed my order again. You, Liu Liushun, where have you been? I waited and waited and waited. Your team was broken up. You knew it was here. Why are you fighting with the Yankees now ? Nonsense. They dropped their guns in the air and fell in front of me. They were all exposed. After a whole night of fighting, the team was broken up. Where have you been? I'm lost. It's nonsense . It's my first time to fight abroad. How can I not get lost ? Hey, did you see the process? Did you see the process ? Oh , your brother is lost . Don't worry about that little brat. Ren Miao, it's too close to the US military camp. Help the Yankees and I'll have to come to you for a while. Hurry back to find the instructor and ask them to take a detour down the mountain. Hurry up and go to those ten thousand miles. Why don't I give up all the mission for this little bastard ? It 's the marker bomb . It's the instructor who tells the American plane where to drop the bomb. Instructor The cannon seems to have stepped on a thunderbolt. Don't come here. Everyone , please stay back. Commissar, be careful. Americans are coming. What are the Americans coming ? Move away. Shut up. Throw me your clothes. What clothes are you looking for? Look for my clothes. Come on, come on, come on. Don't move. Don't move. Throw it over. Commissar. Ah, why do you want that thing now? Now we can only avenge Lao Zhang. We have found something wronged. Is this okay? It's too late to save the dead horse . Hold on quickly . Remember, you are now a South Korean hypocrite. Understand. Do you understand that the weekly reporters don't know their bird language ? Hello, it's not hello. I also mean to save lives. Remember , hurry up. If the disguise fails, I will adapt to the situation . Do n't worry. Remember, don't move . Don't bother Qi . Hey there is a man keep shop stop whoa whoa stop evac stay back stay back stay back lieutenant we found something there stepped on the mine hello hello nice day huh looks like our allies are enjoying the sun at ease oh this poor letter guk still looks like a circus monkey even with our soldiers helmet which unit are you from can't speak English looks like this unlucky gook is about to meet the devil we should thank you for finding this landmine you're in the devil's hands now listen up soldiers this road is dangerously close to a landmine field watch your step and don't lose your lives here all right Instructor Well, this Mai Gaorong doesn't really think Dabao is a South Korean hypocrite. It 's not that simple. Listen up everyone. No one is allowed to shoot without my order. got it we just got a message from headquarters there are small groups of Chinese soldiers spotted in the northern town near the bridge damn it is Chinese if you're lucky enough you might just lose a leg at least you'll still be alive god bless you good luck let's head to that town immediately i can't wait to meet those Chinese let's go guys let's go go goDaddy, hold on, this thunder is for us The infantry is coming. As soon as you let go, it will explode immediately. No matter what happens, hold on. Don't step on the thunder. It 's really stepping on the thunder. Throw it over, Dabao. Don't move. Hold on . Hold on . Oh, how about it? OK? Everyone is safe. There is no time to wait until the end of the confinement. We have to hurry up and meet up with the company commander. Inform everyone to leave. Hurry up. Inform everyone to leave. Is it safe? Inform everyone to leave. Let's go. It's okay. There's a big treasure , big treasure, big treasure, big treasure, big treasure on it. Dabao , Dabao, Pinghe, Pinghe, Pinghe , Pinghe, how are you? Are you okay? Lord Shen, cannon? Cannon is gone. How are you? I didn't expect there are ghosts down there. We didn't expect Miaohua. You've tried your best. You've tried your best. The young man is responsible for me. I beg for punishment. What's the use of saying this now ? If you really want to avenge him , shoot a few shots to kill the Japanese devils to avenge him . Next time we go to rescue Liancheng. Liancheng is in danger , and the Northerners will come over soon. Let's go, let's go, everyone, hurry up and leave. The Ming Army will be here in a minute. Go quickly, grab the gun, and go quickly. This is an order. No more ass ladies. Quick , get up, follow , hurry up. I want to run to pick him up . Smash them. Go away . Captain Xia Lin. Captain, why are you here? There's a group coming over there. What's coming over there? A group is coming over there. The fifth company is finally here. Stop. From now on, you listen to Commander Qi's command. I can't let my last comrades die. I'm going to run away. Boy, are you crazy ? You forgot our mission. If we don't hold them back, we will all die. Who will complete the mission ? So we all have to live together and wait for Lao Mei and the others to come to support . Listen to me and disperse. Shut up and walk away politely. I can. Scatter and find cover. This is a bunch of bastards. If you can hide it , don't discuss it. I'll go out and lure them away. If there's a fight here, you'll bring half a bottle of car with you. Come back , I can attract you again by yourself. Firepower? And how long can you attract? Lao Mei, Lao Mei, why don't you come and wait for death? I believe that the appointment will be able to find Lao Mei. Listen to your command, old boy , it doesn't work, blow up these Americans, what the hell is happening over there someone planted a granny there must be a lot of Chinese sliding wake we need more firepower sir tell the man to get back to the vehicle get a terrorist on the car move it move it yeah yeah homesick don't you fucking don't There is no one at home. I just want to drink a bowl of polenta made by my mother. Hey, good boy, good boy, squat down. I'm hiding here. Let's go and attract fire. Don't come out. Let 's go and fuck. Just obey the order . How about I break your hind legs ? This old boy is trying to be a hero in front of me. Be careful , go go go. This flash of his tiny Chinese people over there can't you fucking understand what I say? Little boy , do you really think that? Can I lose my consciousness to you? Our five companies supply blood and kill you. Calm down soldiers counter attack the armored vehicle shoot and forced the Chinese out fight fight and he spotted on the second floor. Go fast . Three consecutive three consecutive companies. It's okay. We can't die. We 5 For the first time in 2010, I was in a street battle. I couldn't lose. I sent a signal and fought hard. I fought . Grandpa is a warrior and hero of 5 years. Ah , Chint summons grenades . I am such a bad-tempered good boy. Run away . Old boy, don't come here. I will kill the United States. What kind of mess are the devils doing ? Do they have grenades ? There are no bullets and there are not many left. Come on, let them go. That thing is a trouble. You have to carry it first. There is nothing left. What are you carrying? Guan Yu. Fireworks. Quick. Can you listen to me for once? I'll do it. I 'm giving you a joke about my bad temper. Company Commander. The company commander is back. The old boy brought no more than 50,000 miles of victory . He walked back and stopped him. He was my brother . I stayed there. He let me go. He was my brother. I had to save him. You are like this. Who can you save? Your brother is not here. Listen to my brother Paris . I will give you a task now . Find Lao Mei and ask him to come over quickly. Only in this way can we save us. Do you understand? I am not a deserter. Don't think that I don't know what you are thinking. I am not letting you. Being a deserter allows you to play rescue. You are a soldier now. You must know how to obey orders. Do you understand ? Come on, your brother has been a soldier for more than ten years and will not die so easily. Stop and protect Wanli and take him away. The strawberry behind is me, isn't it? Just listen to orders , yes, company commander , yes, you go first, I will accompany you , sir, hold the man Renee get down, hurry up, we have seven companies to reach Xuzhou before the whole village, yes, brother , if we win this battle. Did Chiang Kai-shek run out of places to hide and take away ? But after fighting the Japanese Japs in the past two years, Chiang Kai-shek, the people's lives are passing quickly. If we can win this battle, we can go home and see our father, mother , and that young man Wan Lei, eh? Comrades, if we win this battle, the regiment leader said that we will hold a commendation meeting for seven consecutive years. Brother, there is a commendation meeting. Can I receive a first-class merit medal or something? How can I receive a fifth-class merit medal ? Of course I know about first-class kung fu . I am not afraid of hardships and difficulties. I am brave enough to kill the enemy. I, Wu Qianli, have killed many reactionaries on the battlefield. The people in the old Wu family are very conscious. Our Seventh Company has some very good first-class kung fu for those who are not afraid. Complete the mission with difficulty and use your own life to be a soldier in the future. Brother , brother, brother, please wake up, brother , are you okay? Brother, walk quickly, walk thousands of miles, walk, walk, walk, walk quickly. I will take you with me. Brother hide, thousands of miles away . Listen to each flower once. Go find my sister. Quickly walk. Quickly walk. Hide and run away and let me kill him. Just listen to my brother's words. Wanli, Wanli , Wanli. Rado is easy to hit. It's accurate enough. It's nice to hit. When you see Zhang Yong, give me a punch. Enemies on both sides . Report what we're doing. Hit me well. Tai Chi cannon. Give me the support. Go up and gather, ah, ah, enemy on the one, comrades, all rush to pull the cloud, do n't buy, pull back, reach me High dive, high dive , high dive, come over here, something is wrong, Dad, please save me, save my mother and baby, I can't live, you give up, even my old money can't be taken by the king of hell, you give up, captain, don't brag, don't brag, motherfucker , come back. Stop for me, stop for me , take it apart and show it to you, stop for me, let go of me, Lao Xiao, they have already rushed to the front, I can't let them go alone, the team leader, my teammate made a mistake, you hold me down and kick me to death, you stare. I'm robbing you. Let go, hurry up, don't call people like that . I know, Captain , put it down and don't let others come. I'm going to hurry up, train, train, go in, go in, go in, go in , go in, don't be in a hurry, my duty is to give you a shout . Revenge quickly from the back, main position , put it there, come to us collectively, go, a license, go go, go is a smoke bomb, this is a smoke bomb, the flying pineapple is going to run up, it is the sun, keep your gun, blue light, I will cover you, you give me a break from the team fight Cut him off for me, no no go , black sand, black sand , get off, get off quickly, bastard, Lei Feng is here , platoon leader, I'm fine, Nanfeng , didn't you treat him in the truck ? Can this thing be fixed? You let me try it. No problem. Come on , other warriors, follow me. Come on, come on, come on, can you do it ? Retreat, retreat now , fire kill them all . Kill, kill, kill. OK, go up and see my wife. Do you have any goods? I want to ask you, do you have any goods? They are fat enough. Bring them up. Come on, save the young master first. Move the young master forward quickly. Come on, my wife . The thing that the Americans were smoking over there is called a smoke bomb. Just now, if it is a grenade, I have long been honored. This thing is not very lethal, but it is very concealable. I will use it in the future. I have figured out how to fight with this coal can . It is divided into fine parts. This is what they use when they beat you. It is they who were beaten. What did you use during the war ? Hey, don't talk about this thing. I've never seen it before. Next time you fight against the Yankees, don't you know? Take everyone you can with you. It 's Liu Shuai, company commander , company commander, company commander. Company Commander Li , are you okay ? Can you please hurry up next time? Company Commander, I know you are a cat and you have 9 lives. Company Commander , we can no longer fight with the US military to prevent ground-level bombing. We need to hurry up now. Rush to Xinxingling to complete our mission . There are 30 other groups of aircraft quickly rushing to Xijingli to set off . Wang Company is returning to the team. Hurry up. Go faster, brat. I know you can't die. Xi Company Commander