I'm in Korea to find my mother. The police is searching but I'm Simon Hokwerda. I'm from the Netherlands. I was born as Kim Kwon-si. My birthplace, I'm not sure where it was because it's demolished. And it could be right behind me or it could be in front of me. - Simon was 4 years old when His old address has led him here, where he hopes to trace his birth mother. Maybe we can ask the farmer? OK, if you want to ask in English and I can translate, yeah? Hello. -Yes, hello. Can I ask you a question? He wants to ask you something. I was born in the old village. There was no village here. There was one over that side. Along this way... because of the many there were lots of businesses serving U.S. soldiers. Simon's father was a U.S. soldier stationed a border the U.S. drew to The farmer believes he might have been Do you remember your mom's name? - Yes, Kim Kwi-ja. Kim Kwi-ja. Kim Kwi-ja? Yes. We didn't call the women who worked [Names] like "Sally." Sally had a son and he was also sent for adoption. - Oh, was he biracial? Yes! There were lots of Black biracial Simon was born in 1966 to a Korean She was pulled into prostitution the - She's going to ask her little sister They go call people, and they all want to help. How do you feel when these Angry at myself because I've been so angry with Korea. And now I'm here and everyone's so nice. Sally's son left for adoption He was much older. It's not her then. Although Simon hasn't made it's these interactions that I can't imagine the hardship you went through. I only have one left. Vitamin C. Thank you. You must've gone through This is a cookie made from Korean rice, not flour. Thank you. Very much. I was like, oh in a minute, I go crying or something. I always thought all Koreans hated mixed children, but it's not. Now I understand that's why I wasn't rooted in where I grew up in the Netherlands. Not that that was a bad place, Now I feel like I came home, this is my place. - Although Simon feels welcomed, biracial children were To rebuild the war-torn country, South Korea's first president Syngman Rhee, who was an authoritarian leader appointed by the U.S., enacted the xenophobic policy: "one state for one ethnic people." Foreign adoption became a way to purify the nation. And although the U.S. military was complicit in systematically engaging with the sex trade, it took no responsibility for the children born from it. The fathers left Korea after completing their service. - The Americans always treated it as a war zone. And they could do anything they wanted. They were not there for the consequences. That included biracial babies not being I couldn't get any civilian rights. So I couldn't go to school. As a solution, local officials and social workers encouraged the impoverished mothers The moment she went to they sent her away and said, I mean, she was no criminal. For me, it shows... it goes beyond lack of interest both by the U.S. Army and the Korean government. It's... you know, humiliation of people. South Korea capitalized off that shame, becoming the world's largest exporter of adoptees. About 200,000 children have been Forty years of U.S.-backed dictatorships allowed private agencies to circumvent proper Adoption was also used as a tool to strengthen diplomatic ties between the U.S. and Korea. The U.S. media portrayed adopting Korean children as a humanitarian mission. Thousands of mainly white families heeded the call, thinking they were rescuing orphans. But it turned out, many of Motivated by profit and to make agencies sometimes falsified records - saying children with parents were orphans. That's what happened to Simon. So it says that I have no parents which is a lie. [This is] the document where my Well, it's the sickest thing that you Taking away his family, his relatives, his roots. Simon is one of hundreds who may have been wrongly made orphans on paper, mainly by two private agencies: The Danish Korean Rights Group found that in many cases names, birth dates and parent names were marked as "unknown" even when the agencies had that information. The group found 46 adoptees with the same verbatim story of how they were discovered as orphans, indicating the stories were fabricated. These emails, shared with AJ+, show agencies admitting to having altered records in the past. For 40 years I have been living on a lie. I was not an orphan. It's horrific to be a product that people can sell and buy. It was only in 2012 that foreign adoptions ending the control agencies had over the process. But one of the main concerns adoptees share is that these same agencies are still profiting from overseas adoptions. Amid widespread accusations of corruption, the Truth and Reconciliation commission is investigating human rights violations In the meantime, there are mothers alive in Korea who are waiting to reconnect with their children. Ji is a woman who worked in the We are not using her full name as her family members are State-sponsored prostitution remains My son said he doesn't like Korea. He asked to be sent to the U.S. Ji says she was pressured to send as he faced bullying from his peers. Back then [they] kept telling me to send him away, although I didn't want to. - Send him where? Holt. Ji says she visited Holt Children's Services several times to look for her son, but to no avail, as she had signed away Holt won't tell me. I've committed a sin. I shouldn't have sent him Did I send him because I really He would cry so much every day. So I... Even though I didn't want to send him, he said "Mommy, don't worry. I'll come back." It's been over 50 years now, he's not coming. Experts say at that time, social workers failed never seeing the children again. Ji is currently battling cancer and has convinced herself the behind her son's absence is his death. Wayne, I don't know where you at. Maybe you be in Heaven, I think you be in Heaven. I'll see you soon. - This is me 4 years old, maybe 2 months before I left. Simon, or Kwon-si, was sent for adoption by Korea Social Service, an adoption agency that inspected him over several days to advertise to his prospective family in the Netherlands. - This was them observing you if you were good enough to be adopted. - To be adopted, yeah. - And it says Kwon-si is a good-looking little boy. His complexion is slightly more dark than Many of the children were sent abroad with the promise of a better life. But being ripped away from his family has bled into every part of Simon's life. When I arrived in in the Netherlands, I immediately started to pee in my bed almost every night. That took until I was 14 years old. I never really felt attached to my adoptive parents. I have a learning disorder, so school was a disaster. I was always very quiet. It was very hard to get friends, and to keep friends. Well, and I had huge drug problem, alcohol problem when I was in my 20s. Looking back it's one blur. And I hope that that improves, that I can find some... peace of mind. But I don't know, time will tell. - The officer just called me... The Korean police are helping by treating the search as a missing persons case. During our report, the investigation The police now has found 94 women in the whole of Korea with the same name and the So I think that's a good chance. Simon is prepared to reunite with his mom any day. During his journey in Korea, he carried with This is what my mother made. And when she started, she told me that when it would be finished, I would leave her. So this one is very special to me and... well hopefully it brings me Can you tell me a little bit The last gift. The last thing my mother did for me. Um... Yeah and that's why, you know, it's still hard. You know, it was a sign of me going away and I would like to give it back as a sign of me you know, being back. As Simon waits for the police he's looking for closure in his own way. He's meeting a group of women who Some of the women worked So we're about to go in and meet women. How are you feeling? A bit tense. Is that a good word? Yeah, I think tense. Well my mother was in the same... is in the same group. - This was Simon's first time meeting Ji. As soon as they met, Ji began asking questions, comparing him to her son, - How old are you? I'm fine. - No, how old are you? Oh, 57. Hello. Welcome to our center. Thank you so much. Where are you from? The Netherlands. As Simon shared the few the women were eager to find similarities with her. - Now, how old [is] your mom? Age? In 10 days, she will be 79. - 79? In 10 days. - [Same] as me, me 79. - You don't have no picture? I don't have a picture. - No picture at all? - Although Simon visited the center he unexpectedly brought the women I just wanted to shake his hand once. I was reminded of my son. He came 10 years ago. I believe you can find her. If she didn't die, you can definitely find her. As Ji and Simon have discovered missing they are already hoping to reunite. If I live, I don't die, I see you again. Yeah, I will be here again. It's a bit weird because I had all these questions and things I wanted to talk about, but... it's OK. And I wish that in the whole of Korea, But I don't know. I know now that I have to and learn Korean. - God bless you! See you next year. OK. If I see him more, I'm going to cry. Bye! Bye!