So this is Genoa, and center server processor. It's actually 13 chips on At the heart of all the data centers and gaming kinds of processors. You know, we're in a world everywhere. They're And only one company in both at scale: Advanced It's known for computing, out. Its chips are inside rover, 5G cell towers and supercomputer. They used to be sort of People didn't realize important. And I think is it's just reminded And it really highlighted to everything that we do. AMD only has major companies when it comes advanced microprocessors: processing units, and processing units. While AMD controls far Intel in CPUs and NVIDIA this year when it market cap for the first I think AMD is beating that matter. And unless manufacturing, they will But a decade ago, analysts outlook on AMD. It was almost a joke. For decades they had performance problems. execute. Every product underperforming. And This is the story of AMD, pioneering female CEO and chips in the face of a PC mounting concerns around all AMD's advanced chips AMD is woven into the microchips. It was men, chief among them The famously colorful recently left Fairchild shares credit for the integrated circuit. Jerry Sanders was this He was a salesman at his the best salesmen that seen. Stories of lavish throw. And like there's his wife coming down the the party in matching fur Jerry Sanders, at the philosophy was kind of Things like bonuses and Those were not just for AMD released its first public in 1972 and was by the mid seventies. It was a second source eighties, when Harry years with AMD. When I first got there, about semiconductor In the mid eighties, AMD And by the late eighties reverse engineered own products that were groundbreaking x86 pricing more competitive When we really got going revolution. AMD and Intel entered a intellectual rights to It culminated in a the California Supreme AMD's right to design x86 From there, AMD became a racing Intel to become processor and making the meaning it can handle a every second. For almost all its 53 designing chips for and gaming consoles like But under CEO Lisa Su, whole new sectors. We're in the Tesla models We're also in many aerospace and defense applications. Until just over a decade designing these chips, it Jerry Sanders was very men have fabs,&quot; which that is problematic on a think has largely been That's because as the making chips has gotten It now takes billions of to build a chip fab. And eventually it proved And when the financial AMD almost went bankrupt. In 2006, AMD bought major for $5.4 billion. Then in 2009, AMD broke altogether, forming That's when their to take off because they about the foundry side of GlobalFoundries went a top maker of the less simpler components like a heads-up display. But it edge chips in 2018. Unfortunately, the sufficient at relationship to be Instead, AMD turned to Manufacturing Company, company to focus entirely Today, TSMC manufactures world's most advanced When you think about what world class in design, skills. And then what do class in manufacturing, skills. And the business The capital model is By breaking away from suddenly had far less Making chips has gotten how precise the process Now that the smallest times thinner than a To make leading-edge better, requires an lithography called EUV. Think of it like extreme with a beam of extreme machine that costs $200 the Netherlands. We are the only provider critical technology. TSMC was the first to made with ASML's EUV it at the front of the doubled down on its first chips with EUV $20 billion for new fabs billion in Ohio for what world's largest chip But the projects are coming online. Intel is just not moving They've said they expect next year, and I think client side. And that's tremendously on the data Many point to AMD's Zen released in 2017 as the catch Intel. This is a little hard, I'm babies, but do you have a That's very hard. But if I something that was really company, I would say our I mean, they were months away from the edge out of it. I mean, they this new product design. They're still selling today. They call it Zen. And it worked. It had a massively It enabled them to stem ultimately turn them Among the Zen products, have made monumental side. Its latest, Genoa, month. AMD's data center AWS, Google Cloud, Azure. And what it does is it's a performance capability think about it in cloud enterprise back end. AMD's success at catching technological advances is to Lisa Su, who took over When I started as CEO, we people and this year So we have a few more Su is the first female CEO company. She was businessperson of the recipient of three of the honors. Su also serves on of advisors on science pushed hard for the CHIPS Act. It sets aside companies to manufacture of overseas. I was honored enough to ceremony. And when you Chips and Science Act recognition of just how are to both sort of the well as national security With all of the world's semiconductors currently shortage highlighted the dependency. And then there's the China and Taiwan. I think we are all semiconductor supply If we get to the point we are cut off from problems to worry about graphics cards. So now TSMC is building a chip fab outside Phoenix. We're pleased with the We think that's a great it expand even more. And earlier this month, enacted big new bans on China. China has become more call their military civil essentially fancy talk sophisticated chips, commercial purposes, and equipment to advance AMD has about 3000 25% of its sales were to When we look at the most they're not significantly It does affect some of are used in sort of AI And we were not selling So overall, I would say been very small. Something that is at least for now, is the During the pandemic, we People just were at home computers and our gear that again. We're all using work computers. W at the same pace. And so that. In Q3 earnings reported missed expectations of a soft fourth quarter PC shipments were down steepest decline in more It's down, which might it's down a bit more than There is a cycle of from time to time, but long term roadmap. And it's not just PC sales Many say the very core of advancement is slowing called Moore's Law used of resistors on a chip two years. The process that we call least another decade to definitely, it's slowing Everybody sort of used general purpose compute. But that's all slowed something that makes customized solutions. That's why in February, biggest acquisitions in $49 billion for Xilinx, reprogrammable adaptive Field-Programmable Gate FPGAs are in robotics, stations that place your cars and smart cameras or the Perseverance. We're in in avionics, we're in surgery, we're in So very, very diverse. Former Xilinx CEO Victor silicon industry for 40 stints at AMD, where he computing. So this is for creating a It can be changed from a It could also be changed got both. An estimated 20% of AMD's from FPGAs, with 72% from AMD is also king in While Intel controls more and NVIDIA controls 87% designs 83% of gaming And as more and more semiconductor industry, being willing to If you looked at our we were probably more consumer markets and very gaming-centric. And as I wanted for the strategy believed that for high really the data center piece of the business. Earlier this year, AMD optimization startup I mean, we can quibble they paid for some of returns will look like. But building a custom their customers design smart strategy. That's because more and designing specialized purposes. Amazon has its for AWS. Google designs its own AI and a specific video chip Even John Deere is coming autonomous tractors. How does it feel to have become competitors in a Well, if you really look happening in the chip five years is everybody see them everywhere, growth of the cloud has the last five years. And what that means is volume growth in chips, customization. Even basic chip transition point. AMD and the five decade old x86 Now ARM architecture popularity, with Ampere making major ARM CPUs and Apple self-designed ARM My view is it's really not ARM. You're going to see the most important the market. And what about what you do with For now, AMD continues to computing chips while needs of the vulnerable business of You really have to make the future. What's going to 5 years? What are the change? And then how do opportunities to bring else could do to the