KISH Lauren with chicken and mushrooms - French open shortcrust pastry pie If subtitles bother you, turn them off! Hello my friends! With you Dina and Channel Recipe Collection! I think you will agree with me that the aroma of fresh homemade pastries will not leave anyone indifferent! Perhaps every family has their favorite recipes for sweet or unsweetened pies, pies, etc. Today I propose to cook a very delicious open pie - quiche with chicken and mushrooms. I have a separate playlist on the channel with recipes for various pies, including quiche with salmon and broccoli, the dough for which we prepared on corn and whole grain flour if you haven't seen it, look at the link in the description below the video! And this time we will make a pie on a traditional shortcrust pastry. So let's get started! First, Pour the pre-sifted flour into the bowl - the flour should be exactly twice as heavy by weight as the oil and rub very cold, almost ice-cold butter or margarine into it (I have butter), and to make it easier to rub, periodically dip in flour. Then, until the butter has melted, quickly grind it with flour into the butter and flour crumbs. There we add one egg, sugar, salt, slightly stir with a fork and pour ice water literally on a spoon until coca dough begins to gather in a lump. Three to four tablespoons of water are sufficient depending on the quality of the flour. Quickly knead the dough with your hands until the butter has melted. We shift it into a bag or wrap it in cling film, flatten it for the convenience of further rolling and put it in the refrigerator for at least half an hour, but it can take longer, and even such a dough can be frozen and then used if necessary. In the meantime, the dough is cooling, prepare the filling for the pie. Set the pan on the stove, pour in a little vegetable oil and heat it well. At this time, we cut a large onion into a small cube. Pour the onion into the pan, let it fry. We cut the mushrooms not very finely - I have fresh champignons, but absolutely any can be used - frozen, canned and even previously boiled dried forest mushrooms. Pour them into the pan to the fried onion and mix, cook the mushrooms until the liquid has practically evaporated. Next, we cut the chicken fillet in a small cube, which I previously boiled in salted water for 20 minutes and left it in the broth until the cake was made. Remember to stir the onion with mushrooms periodically. Instead of chicken, you can take any boiled poultry, liver or ham. As soon as there is no mushroom juice left in the pan, add boiled chicken, mix, pour salt and pepper. Fry two more - three minutes and the filling is ready! We remove the pan from the stove, you can not shift the filling, let it cool in the pan. And now back to the test - we take it out of the refrigerator, I didn't even have time to cool it very much and roll out on a work surface sprinkled with flour into a layer with a thickness of about 0.5 cm in diameter of the mold plus the height of the sides. The diameter of my form is 30 cm, and the height of the sides is 4 cm. Transfer the dough into a form that does not need to be lubricated and evenly distributed, cut off the excess dough, it can be frozen and used for another recipe. We prick the dough with a fork so that it does not swell during baking, cover it with foil or parchment, pour out any cargo - rice, beans, peas or special ceramic pebbles and send the form with the dough to the oven, preheated to 190 deg C for 15-20 minutes. And during this time we will prepare the fill. We knock out the eggs in the bowl, pour the salt, a pinch of pepper and nutmeg and mix everything well. Then add sour cream or, as in my case, cream with a fat content of 20 to 30%. Mix well and fill ready! So, friends, we bake the dough, the filling cools down, the filling is ready and we just have to grate the cheese and chop the tomatoes. I'll take cherry tomatoes - I have homemade ones, even with tails, cut each into two parts, if you use large tomatoes, cut them into slices 5-7 mm thick. We rub the cheese on a coarse grater, choose any cheese that you like, the main thing is that it is delicious. After 15 minutes, we take out the basis of the future cake from the oven, be careful, it is very hot! Remove the parchment with the load, put the finished slightly cooled filling on an even shortcrust pastry and distribute it evenly without tamping! On top of the filling, spread the grated cheese and pour the whole fill. We distribute it slightly and over the entire surface of the pie in a chaotic manner, slightly pressing, we lay the tomatoes with the slice down. We send the prepared form to the oven, lower the temperature to 170 deg C and bake in the &quot;top + bottom&quot; mode for an hour. The readiness of the pie is determined by the presence of a beautiful golden crust and a dense filling, which will spring slightly. We take the finished cake out of the oven and let it cool slightly, otherwise it is rather difficult to cut it when it is hot. We serve a warm pie to the table and cut. At the sight of it, drooling is already running! It turns out delicious, with a golden brown crust, it has a very tasty juicy filling, a thin shortbread dough was perfectly baked, and despite its fragile texture, it keeps its shape perfectly. This nourishing pie may well replace a full-fledged lunch or dinner, and given its size it is perfect for a large company. To make such an open pie from shortcrust pastry is not difficult in principle, the main thing is fresh food, desire and good mood - that's all you need! Cook with pleasure and let such delicious pastries decorate your table on weekdays and holidays! I wish you good luck and delicious pies! Friends, if you also love homemade pies - do not forget to like! Thank you for watching my videos, rating and sharing them with your friends! Subscribe to my YouTube channel "Collection of Recipes" and do not forget to click on the bell, then you definitely will not miss new videos. I have a Pies playlist on my channel - be sure to check it out! All links on the screen and in the description. Dina was with you. Until new meetings,