How far can you follow a compass needle? As far as the north magnetic pole, where the needle starts spinning wildly? Compass needles align with magnetic field north, those field lines are vertical. So just tilt your compass 90 degrees and you can continue your journey - either down to the molten iron dynamo surrounding the Earth's core, or up. But up to where? The answer - to everywhere - and today, that's where we're going to go. Imagine you can see gravitational fields. It would mean seeing the literal threads of Threads tugged lightly towards the Earth, knots towards black holes. But there's really only one gravitational of spacetime itself. And it governs the formation of every major moon to the largest cluster of galaxies. But for all its importance, gravity is a bit The universal gravitation field is just a Personally, I'd rather be able to see magnetic fields. Magnetism is one half of electromagnetism, one of the four fundamental forces alongside gravity. Magnetism shares a property with gravity that none of the other forces have - it manifests on enormous scales. The nuclear forces are short range, and the because its positive and negative charges But not magnetism. It's generated when electrically charged Even if the substance is electrically neutral as the charges are moving in opposite directions. That means magnetic fields can add up - and magnetism adds up to having enormous influence on the development of structure in our universe. Understanding magnetic fields is of fundamental importance to astrophysicists. And so we should probably understand them too. First up, let's review how magnetism works. Magnetic field lines form in concentric circles around moving charges. If that charge moves in a loop, that results in a dipole field - sort of a torus around the loop with the field threading the loop So those are magnetic field lines - but what Well, a moving charged particle will feel of motion and to the field lines - and the net result of that is that charged particles tend to spiral around magnetic field lines. And if that charge already has a circular in an electromagnet, or the aligned electron will want to loop around the magnetic field. But the circular current produces its own fields always try to align themselves with And that, by the way, is how compasses work. Speaking of compasses - a minute ago we were standing at the north pole with a compass needle pointing straight up. Where exactly does that field line go? As with the gravitational field, in a sense So while most of the Earth's dipole field connect to this greater magnetic field of So let's hitch a ride on a field line and Now I don't want to spend too much time lie beyond. But while we're here, it's worth following directly to the surface of the Sun. This is a violent place, magnetically speaking. Here the field is generated by electrical the Sun's surface. The Earth's solid inner core and mantle resulting in a clean dipole field. But the Sun is entirely fluid, and its rate That means the dipole field gets twisted up Magnetic field lines cross each other, and We can see those tangled field lines in ultraviolet light as charged particles spiral along them, up and down from the Sun's surface. When the pressure gets too high, these field lines snap and then reconnect, and in the process spray that magnetic field out into the solar system - carrying high energy particles with them. These coronal mass ejections join the solar wind. Follow one of these magnetic blasts and you'll spiral through the solar system on a giangantic magnetic tornado. This is still the Sun's magnetic field, little fields of the planets. About 4x the distance to Pluto, the Sun's magnetic field connects to the field of the galaxy itself. Or smashes into it, depending on how you look at it. This is the heliopause, the boundary of the Sun's influence in the galaxy. Although it's less of a sphere and more the Sun's orbital motion through the galaxy. How do we know that? Well, we have sent compasses that far - or 1 and 2 spacecraft which crossed the boundary into interstellar space a few years ago. But those didn't reveal the shape of the That was measured for the first time only NASA's IBEX mission, which used a sort of solar wind material were reflected back towards the Earth from the edge of the heliosphere. Beyond the heliosphere, seeing magnetic fields gets trickier. Fortunately astronomers are also tricky, and It turns out that the Milky Way is full of The interstellar medium - the space between the stars - is scattered with tiny specks of dust produced in past supernova explosions. These specks tend to align with the local same way as our iron filings align around a bar magnet. When light passes through the dusty interstellar medium it gets scattered by these grains - it bounces off them. But the pattern of alignment of these grains The light gets polarized - which means the pick up a preferred direction rather than By measuring this polarization we can map and so map the magnetic field of the Milky This has now been done in incredible detail by the Planck mission, which mapped polarization of the cosmic microwave background - the ubiquitous radiation left over from the big bang. The resulting map reveals a whirlwind of magnetism tangled through the galaxy. KInda makes me wonder if van Gogh could see magnetic fields. Actually there's a more traditional way These fields drive the motion of lone electrons throughout the interstellar medium. When radio waves interact with those electrons, their polarizations are also affected. This is a bit different though. The presence of these electrons tends to slow light down - just as light is slowed down in air or glass - but to a much smaller degree. But that slowing depends on the polarization of the light. In this case, it depends on the circular polarization. If the electric and magnetic fields of a collection of photons all tend to point in the same direction, we say the light is linearly polarized. But if those fields are not fixed but rather is circularly polarized - and it can be left- rotation. The electrons in their magnetic fields tend more than the other. The net result of this is that the linear the circular polarizations - gets rotated So by measuring the Faraday rotation of distant radio sources we can also map magnetic fields. This has been done for the Milky Way using the light from pulsars. We even have clear views of magnetic fields in many distant spiral galaxies. We see that the field tends to be threaded These are the densest regions of those galactic disks - places where magnetic fields have confined the charged particles of the interstellar plasma. And that plasma in turn drags the magnetic OK, so galaxies have magnetic fields. But where do those magnetic fields come from? This is a surprisingly open question. Large-scale magnetic fields can grow and reinforce themselves in very particular configurations called dynamos. In the Earth's dynamo, swirls of magma are induced by the coriolis force, and while these are initially turbulent, they arrange themselves into a series of self-supporting flows. These amplify what starts out as a very weak and disordered field into the ordered and powerful field that surrounds the Earth. We did a whole episode on this cool effect The exact process for the Milky Way isn't all there: we have differential rotation in helical flows, and those flows can also be Those supernovae may also give us the seeds of magnetic fields that can then be amplified by the galactic dynamo. However it got there, the Milky Way has built itself a substantial magnetic field. And that field helps build the Milky Way in Magnetic fields generated by collapsing gas clouds help to slow the rotation of those clouds - expel angular momentum. Without that, those clouds would never be able to collapse all the way into stars. And magnetic fields also facilitate star formation after stars die. Magnetic blasts accompany every supernova explosion, and these help to compress gas in the path of that explosion, triggering Those same supernovae are expected to blast their own guts entirely out of the galaxy, which should result in all those newly-formed elements being lost to us. But the galactic magnetic field constrains galactic fountains erupting from the poles. That's right - if you follow a magnetic the galaxy. But actually, these galactic fountains are Their material tends to spill into the space in, where it can be used for new star formation. The other cool thing that galactic magnetic accelerators. If you thought the 27 km ring of the large year ring around the Milky Way. Electrons and atomic nuclei can be accelerated in this magnetic field to high energies - into what we call cosmic rays. These can also be accelerated in the magnetic shock-fronts of supernova explosions. But the most energetic cosmic rays are accelerated by the strongest magnetic fields. Those occur deep in galactic cores near the If that black hole is feeding and surrounded an active galactic nucleus - the most powerful of which are called quasars. Intense magnetic fields live just above the event horizon of some of thses black hole, and thread the infalling disk. Those fields grab particles of matter and cosmic rays out into the universe. We've even taken our first picture of the surrounding the M81 supermassive black hole observed by the event horizon telescope. But there's an even more spectacular result of these magnetic fields. Thick flows of gas can be catapulted through the surrounding galaxy in powerful jets. In some cases, these jets puncture the galaxy and plume out in radio lobes which can dwarf the entire galaxy that spawned them. These jets carry magnetic fields out into light emitted by electrons that spiral slowly in these vast structures. OK, we've ridden our magnetic field lines To summarize what we've learned: magnetic fields are ubiquitous, powerful, and extremely complicated. In some ways they're the curse of the astrophysicist because they're so tricky to model - far more so than simple-old gravity. But it turns out that without cosmic-scale here today. As such, astrophysicists are spending more magnetic fields, to better understand the As ever, we want to express our eternal gratitude to all our Patreon supporters. Your enthusiasm is what keeps us motivated to keep doing this, and your Patreon support is a big part of HOW we can keep doing this. And today, our extra extra special shoutout us at the quasar level. Most people don't know this, but Stephen have to factor in his personal magnetism when they calculate the Earth's geomagnetic field. The US air force weather agency sometimes gives aurora alerts when Stephen travels. Stephen, thank you for your help. Today we're covering comments from our episode on the weirdness of quantum spin, and then our episode that tried to answer the question where exactly are the alternate worlds in the many worlds interpretation of quantum Although fair warning - this will mostly be many comments. On the spin episode. Howard Smith asks how two permanent magnets can pull each other together? Do the bound currents do the work? Howard, you just answered a question that's vexed some of our greatest living philosophers - magnets, how the bleep do they work? Moving charges exert forces on other moving charges - that's what it always comes down to with magnetism. In ferromagnets, the "moving" charges Colm offers an important historical detail. The anomalous Zeeman effect was discovered not by Zeeman but by an Irish Physicist, Thomas Preston, and Preston never seems to get any credit. Seems a fair point. As an irish physicist myself - by descent, anyway - who has way more notoriety than he deserves, I support noting much better physicists who have less than they deserve. In the many worlds episode we asked where are those worlds - but a few of you brought up an equally fascinating question -HOW are those worlds? Wait, that wasn't it - it was how many are those worlds? For example Zapp Brannigan asks what percentage of quantum interactions separate into worlds versus recombining again. And Jack Williams leads us on a thought experiment that demonstrates a potential absurdity. Saying that for every measurement every measurement of photon number we get countably infinite splits, and for particle position it's uncountably infinite splits So the answer of many worlds there are is that it depends what you mean by worlds. If you mean every possible configuration of the answer is there are infinite worlds. A world for every infinitesimal difference For example, particle position wavefunction of possible locations - some more probable Each infinitesimal location can be thought weight - more probability than others. But worlds in that sense aren't separate, To get this sort of splitting, two parts of that wavefunction need to influence other particles in ways that are distinguishable from each other. The number of distinguishable worlds depends on the rate at which distinct decoherence happens - so far, far fewer than the number But possibly still infinite, though that's Honestly, there's a ton more to be said episode. A related point is regarding probability. MrRogueTech and Master Piece point out that if many worlds gives one world per option, then what does that mean for the different wavefunction branches? This is a really good point.- and one we'll mentioned. The probabilities must be reflected in the - because in the many worlds interpretation, probable outcomes simply because there are more worlds in which that outcome manifests. If the splitting only made one world per distinct outcome then indeed probability would be destroyed. We see differences in likelihood, and therefore probability is not destroyed, so IF the many worlds explanation is right then the number of worlds is weighted by the probability. One thing that will influence the number of of the wavefunction. For example, do the weakest, less "probable" parts of the wavefunction get pruned? Barefoot expresses this eloquently, drawing Those ripples don't really add up indefinitely the tallest peaks and deepest troughs. So Barefoot asks what if there's a damping function that suppresses the universal wavefunction? That could massively cut down the number of worlds to only the most probable. But Barefoot also point out that this divide isn't needed for quantum mechanics to work - its perhaps only helpful in making us less freaked out by the idea of a stupid number of parallel realities. And anyway, as many of you pointed out - we don't really need wavefunction damping if we have the time variance authority pruning Really, that entire series can be framed as