I completely shut off my heat when it was in order to prove a point: my home's heating system, a furnace which was installed and is way too big for my home! Why did it get installed? I can only speculate, but it means that my when it comes time to replace it. And many of you are probably in that same boat. If you are looking to make a change to your especially if that change is moving it pays to find out what heating and cooling capacity And the good news is that it's not that hard anymore. Before we get to that, though, this is a tweaked If you'd like some additional context and plenty more runtime you can check that out there or through the link in the description. And I'd like to begin this version by letting you in on a secret the industry doesn't want you to know. I'm not really joking, despite the cliche. Here goes: those fancy heat pumps they keep talking about on the news? Well it turns out, those heat pumps ... ARE JUST AIR CONDITIONERS! That's all they are. They're just air conditioners equipped with an extra valve That's all that a heat pump is! Everyone in the HVAC industry knows this, but because heat pumps are hyped up right now in areas where they haven't been common they are often painted as fancier and more exotic machines than they really are. The only truly new things on the scene are but those just have little tweaks to the underlying technology and are not fundamentally different from the commodity equipment So watch out for price gouging - it's rampant right now. And for reference, poke around on HVAC wholesale sites compared to a new furnace and air conditioner. You'll quickly find out it's not much at all. If you already have an air conditioner and furnace, the most expensive and frankly only different task when installing a heat pump And that's not always even necessary anymore There's a lot of nuance here which I'm skipping over for time, but bottom line, $20,000 quotes to install a heat pump But this video isn't so much about price gouging, it's about figuring out how much of a heat pump I live in a fairly new townhome in the Chicago area. Because it was built to recent codes and I'm Yet whoever specced its heating system was apparently not given the memo! It's been equipped with a bog-standard The air conditioner, miraculously, is actually close to right-on-the-money. But the furnace is way too effin' big! It is barely running even in extreme cold. How do I know that? Eyes and ears are pretty helpful here but even more helpful Since I have a simple singe-stage heating system which is only ever heating a log of how much time it spent heating in a day could be used to determine And wouldn't ya know it, the smart thermostat and my user account retains that data for well over a year. So with a quick look in my thermostat's app (but not the Nest app, the Google Home app... don't get me started) I can look back in time to see what it did on any particular day. So let's do that. Here's what a typical winter day looks like weather-wise: January 5th was a cloudy day with the temperature hovering With essentially no help from the sun, and it needed to run for 3 hours and 10 minutes total. That right there makes it obvious the furnace but this is Chicago. It gets a lot colder than just freezing. Like two Christmases ago. December 23rd 2022 started out at a balmy -8 degrees Despite it being that frigid, though, the furnace only ran for 6 hours total. 6 hours of 24 in the day is only 25% (or 1/4th for those of you that speak fractions). Running only a quarter of the time in weather like that Now, I wasn't home that day. That's good in that there weren't any other sources of heat like cooking appliances or hot water usage to skew the data, but it's bad in that the set point was only 62 degrees Since it can get a bit colder than -8 degrees 'round these parts and since normally I keep it a little warmer when I'm at home, I'll go ahead and fudge that and say my furnace is 3 times oversized. Since my current system produces 60,000 BTU/hr, then apparently I only really need 20,000 BTU/hr of heating available. Which, in heat pump speak, is not even two tons. That's pretty wild. If that's true, then I actually need about as I need cooling output in the hottest parts of summer. Which, admittedly, feels kinda wrong. In the winter, I have to fight an 80 or 85 degree but we rarely ever crack 100 degrees in the summer But, well, the data doesn't lie. However, there are some reasons to be cautious. Firstly, while my furnace is rated for 60,000 BTU per hour, that's actually it's input rating - it only releases 92 percent of (the rest is wasted in the exhaust), so in reality it's output is slightly less. But that's presuming it's working correctly, It could be outputting more heat than it's designed to. There are also two other minor sources of The raw energy content of natural gas varies somewhat from day to day, so even if I knew for a fact that my furnace were operating perfectly, Also, the thermostat logs how long it calls for heat, but at every start-up, there's actually a delay so the thermostat is slightly overreporting total energy output. Now, to be clear, these little sources of error are little and unlikely to amount to much, But it does mean that my 20,000 BTU/hr conclusion probably isn't perfect, especially because I fudged it a bit to account for not being home. I still know my furnace is wildly oversized no matter what, but I wanted to know exactly what sort of heat I needed in extreme weather. And I knew a trick to find out: Just get a bunch of space heaters. See, since heat is heat you can convert between units as much as you like. 20,000 BTU/hr is equivalent to 5.86 kW. And an ordinary space heater like this can pump out 1.5 kW. So assuming my thermostat data and math are correct, simply running four space heaters on high should actually provide more than enough heat to keep my home warm So... I thought, why not just wait for some extreme weather and then try that and see if it works? So I did! But - I used more than four heaters. And the setup was rather involved. And pretty risky. So first let me just say, don't try this yourself. I took a number of big risks designing and performing this test. I could have ended up with frozen pipes if I wasn't careful, and I put myself at risk of a fire using the space heaters, required the use of extension cords, splitters, power strips, and even Christmas lights. Yeah. To save on time I'm not going into all the you can check out the main channel video if you want more of those details. But the bottom line was I had about 6,500 watts of resistive heat The heat sources were powered through digital temperature controllers and they were all metered through energy monitors I set up each temperature controller to maintain the same temperature band that my furnace normally does in each room and with the setup finalized and in-place, turn on all those heaters, and shut off the furnace. So that's what I did. The test began at 8 AM on January 14th when the outside temperature was -11degF With the furnace disabled, the heaters would have to hold their own. Before long the temperature controllers had they all started going off. This meant that the heaters were sufficient despite it being 80 degrees colder outside than inside. So clearly, that 6.5kW of heat on tap was more than enough. And 24 hours later, the heaters had used a grand total of 110.76 kWh, representing an average power draw of only Now, the whole 24 hour span included some sources of noise. For one, it was a bright sunny day during the test and I did prepare food which added some heat not accounted for by the meters. However, I was taking readings from all of the meters every four hours, and between 8PM (long after I made dinner and the sun had set) the heaters used 61.38 kWh representing a continuous draw of 5.115 kW, or 17,452 BTU/hr. The outdoor temperature during that period which is just a teensy bit warmer than the coldest temps we typically experience. So - there we go. That's the number. 17,452 BTU/hr is the actual heating load of my home Which means that sure enough, my furnace is triple oversized. Actually a bit more than that. For me and my home, this is excellent news! Because I'm in a townhome which was built I only have 100A electrical service which is limiting. But even using resistive heat, as I did in the test, A heat pump will use even less power so long which these cold climate heat pumps can do well into negative temperatures. So when it comes time to replace my furnace, will be just fine and 5kW of backup heat strips will be or even function as my only heat source in an emergency. But my experiment, although it was extremely valuable, was also absurd. It is not a thing anybody should do and the good news is - nobody has to! You might find this hard to believe, but those scientists? The've figured out the thermal properties of the materials we use to build our homes! Insulation has an R-value which tells you its resistance to heat transfer. Windows have R-values, too - plus low-e coatings on the glass The materials on the exterior of the home have an influence, too - and we know all this information. To tie it all together into something useful, there are these tools out there called measuring tapes If you actually take the time to assess these variables, you can perform a load calculation which will tell you how much heating (and cooling) your home actually needs depending on how it was built. Now, I am not here to show you how to do one. It's not that complicated - you're essentially just finding (taking note of window and door dimensions, too), then plugging that information (and don't forget to count the ceiling and floors, too). But it is pretty tedious. Still, for grins and giggles, I did one for my home. I used on online Manual J calculator (manual-J is essentially the industry standard for how to do a block load calculation) and after inputting all my measurements, it told me that I would need... 19,000 BTU/hr of heating with an outdoor temperature That's within spitting distance of what my experiment just showed, and since it was a little warmer during the test than -15, So rest assured those calculations do, indeed, work. If someone had actually done that calculation they would never have put a 60,000 BTU/hr furnace in my home. That's just way more than my home needs. But I can feel your trepidation coming through the screen - why would I conclude that having just enough heat would be... enough? Well, enough is by definition enough. When a heating system is properly sized to a given home, then when the weather outside gets frightful, the heating system There's a concept called design temperature which is important here. Where I live, -15 outside is about the coldest we ever experience. And 70 degrees inside is the warmest I'd Those are my design temperatures: and they only show up once or twice a year - if that. There isn't actually a need to have any more heat capacity available especially when, even if the weather happens to dip below the design temp, a wide variety of simple supplemental heat sources, such as all those space heaters I now own, are available to fill the gap. But actually sizing heating systems appropriately seemingly never happens. The HVAC industry is currently stuck in a habit To be fair to them, there are some good reasons to do that: when you only have a single source of heat, a properly-sized heating system will take a long time to increase the temperature if, say, you're like me and like to turn the heat down a bit at night. But the main reason they're always going so overboard is that... that's easy. Particularly when you have gas at your disposal, you can just use simple rules of thumb such as a home's footprint then choose the next size up, just in case. I can all but guarantee that's how my home But this habit needs to die. We're not gonna be heating our homes with gas forever. Pick whatever reason you'd like, there are plenty! Heat pumps are in the news so much these days concentrate it, and move it inside. That process is so efficient that we can end up with 3 or sometimes even 4 times as much energy That is why they are such a big deal - it's a way we can get more heat and doing more with less is always a good idea. For that reason alone, more and more people They just make way too much sense to not use. And when speccing a heat pump system, actually installing the correct equipment More than it's ever been. There are a whole bunch of reasons that this is the case. For one, heat pumps are electric sources of heating and cooling, so larger systems require more electrical capacity to run them. Therefore, concluding that you need a bigger heat pump can come with a whole host of potential headaches So you absolutely don't want to go overboard. Plus, if you want a backup generator or even bigger heat pumps will need bigger generators, Having more than you need can be a legitimate problem. Plus, I keep running across folks who have been told by HVAC contractors that their home's current ductwork isn't big enough to have a heat pump. Maybe that's true, but if that contractor hasn't done a load calculation or any sort of sanity check on whether the home's current heating system is actually appropriate, then the contractor simply doesn't have enough information Those ducts may be perfectly fine Additionally, and this is something that everyone in the industry should know very well, oversizing a heat pump can lead to nasty moisture problems if you have too much cooling capacity, the heat pump might short-cycle and that means it won't run long enough to actually dehumidify the air. What I personally think the industry secondary heat sources will become And those are going to function as the margin I mentioned backup heat strips previously - (not unlike the wire elements in these space heaters) that get tucked into the air handler to provide additional heat. They are often referred to as auxiliary heat or emergency heat. And both of those terms are apt: the heat strips provide an emergency backup in case the heat pump fails, but if the heat pump is working, they can work alongside it If configured correctly, then when the temperatures are approaching design conditions the thermostat can command the heat strips to perhaps double the system output And even if the temperature dips below design conditions, modern cold-climate heat pumps don't just stop pumping. They'll keep on working well into the negative temperatures. They probably won't be putting out much heat, but it will be something - In other words, there is still a margin - it just looks a little different now. So to recap - first of all, heat pumps are not magic machines! Don't let anyone convince you they're revolutionary technology, they're just reversible air conditioners and they should only cost marginally more with the only major potential hiccup If you're getting a $20,000 quote for a central heat pump, ask why on Earth it's so high and what sort of equipment they'll be installing. Then poke around on those wholesale sites or if they're just playing amateur economist For those of you that don't have central heating systems, but they are going to be more expensive because they involve more work. Still, though, the equipment itself isn't very expensive and the work isn't really that involved (I've done it myself and I'm just some schmuck on the Internet) so... shop around. Second, nobody should ever be sizing replacement equipment Depressingly often, what's there now is oversized up the wazoo especially when a home is on its fourth or fifth system. Imagine how out of control it can get when just in case. There are many, many ways to do a sanity check Just this past Spring my parents got a cold climate heat pump and the sales rep who came out somehow figured nothing but a guess and maybe the output of their old system. But had that rep looked at the data from Nest, he would have seen that their old system so it was about double oversized and a three-ton heat pump Luckily I was there for this process, showed him that data, And sure enough, their 3-ton heat pump is working just fine and the heat strips were only required once this winter, If you've got a smart thermostat, the historical data it provides can be tremendously useful. HVAC professionals really oughta be looking at that data (when it's available), And when it's not, they need to be doing proper load calculations! That needs to be wayyyy more common than it is right now, and somebody (perhaps even the Air Conditioning Contractors of America, should really build a guided tool to help professionals do this quickly. Bottom line, the tactics of yesterday are no longer appropriate. Everything is changing so habits need to, as well. Frankly, if you are in the HVAC business, 1) actually investigating the performance of the equipment that's already there to see if it's correct, perhaps by looking at thermostat data if available, 2) performing even just basic load calculations 3) educating your customers on how heat pump systems work and how the heat strips help to fill in any gaps and, most importantly, 4) charging honest prices for heat pumps which will, get this, cause you to win all the bids! Honestly this industry is ripe for disruption, One of you just needs to wake up and smell the roses. Change is scary, and difficult! But one of the great things about heat pumps is that they are incredibly flexible. It's not just fire in a box with air blowing through it, it's a modular toolkit which can be configured in many ways and tailored to any home. And they're only gonna get better and better as time goes on! Already they are appropriate in climates like So why not learn some new tricks? Isn't that what makes life fun? Thanks for watching, and more pumping more now!