you've probably heard of the five platonic you know, these guys. if you watch as much educational youtube as of videos that explain why there's only when educational videos introduce the platonic special by saying that all their sides, edges, this is a slight simplification of the formal the thing is, the platonic solids are not there are several more! it's just that all about the concept to beginners. and yet, not only do these beginner-friendly polyhedra that aren't platonic solids, you'd of regular polyhedra anywhere on the internet. but why? what are these secret shapes that Big Shape I'm jan Misali, and there are 48 regular part one: what? yeah, I know! 48 of them? why didn't anyone tell me? that's so many more than five! so, before we get into everything, I'm going is supposed to be for a general audience. first, we're restricting ourselves to Euclidean if you don't know what that means, don't means, I'm sure you'll understand why okay, now let's define our terms. you can plot any two points in space and connect line segments are what you might call "boring". two line segments have one endpoint in common. now the two line segments each have one endpoint disconnected. we can add a third line segment which goes and we get a triangle. a triangle is an example of a polygon. it's a polygon because it's made out of define the component line segments are shared the points in a polygon are called its vertices, polygons can have however many edges you want, I mean, you could have two of them, but they'd shape you end up with is indistinguishable own, so that's usually not allowed. polygons can pretty much be shaped however of being made out of line segments and every there's a special category of polygons called properties that other polygons don't. all vertices that they meet at all have the same this is an okay enough way to describe what for my purposes it'll be useful to define for a polygon to be regular, it must have multiple different orientations. specifically, you have to be able to move to any other vertex. these qualities are called there are infinitely many polygons that satisfy can construct a regular polygon with an arbitrarily pentagons, hexagons, heptagons, octagons, sides it can have. the fact that there are infinitely many regular so let's move on. the three dimensional equivalent to polygons just like how polygons are made out of line with each edge shared between exactly two the polygons that make up a polyhedron are polyhedra and polygons both belong to a larger the concept to higher dimensions. higher dimensional polytopes are great, but that work in 3D space. and the definition of regular polygons can once again, it's defined according to symmetry. a regular polyhedron must also be face transitive, the philosopher Plato showed that there are are known as the platonic solids. okay, got all that? great. part two: the platonic solids the definition of "regular polyhedron" would only be five of them. I think it's pretty trivial to see that must all be regular polygons, and for it to must be the same. so, all you need to describe a specific regular how many meet at each vertex. you can represent this information using a with the number of edges of each face then all within curly brackets. okay, let's look at some regular polygons out of them. if you start with three triangles and fold around a vertex, the space remaining is perfect also known as a triangular pyramid. next, start with four triangles around a vertex. to be the same, constructing any given platonic in more faces, copying whatever vertex you with four triangles around a vertex, you eventually an octahedron. doing the same thing with five triangles, icosahedron, which you might recognize as if you start with six triangles, you run into they can't actually fold into 3D space because so, you've now reached the point where you solid. so, let's move onto squares. three squares around a vertex gets you a cube, because they lie flat again. last one, put three pentagons around a vertex and any more than that is once again too many you could start with hexagons, but three hexagons limit. and so, we can convince ourselves that these look at that and say "yeah, that makes sense. I mean, what else could you do to make another and those are the only three polygons where exhausted all of the options for how many and yeah, using these three polygons as the 3D shapes we can construct that fit the definition but is there any reason to assume that these use as faces? now, you might be thinking, "well, yeah, a pentagon won't fit." and you're right but what if you could construct a different could that work? the answer, surprisingly, is yes. part three: the Kepler solids let's get back down to 2D and look at regular if you have at least three line segments that to construct a regular polygon. so, if you have five line segments, you can pentagon. but what if you did something like this? this is a pentagram, also known as a five-pointed polygon. you might say, "that can't be a regular as that vertex, so it isn't vertex transitive! but the thing is, those self-intersection this polygon has five edges and five vertices, same exact amount of symmetry as a regular true, it's not convex, and it does intersect that says a golden retriever can't construct unless we amend our definition to explicitly the pentagram is part of an infinite family taking them into account, we can say that to every rational angle. that means that if you start with two line which can be described as some fraction of ends with similar line segments that meet to do that you'll get some closed shape I think that's pretty cool! while there are indeed infinitely many star face of a regular polyhedron is the pentagram. so let's try it out! put three pentagrams is this really cool looking shape. and I mean, just look at it! what even is this spiky thing? it's made out of twelve pentagrams, so it's since it's a star, you could call it a stellated let's see what else we can do with pentagrams. five pentagrams around a vertex ends up forming unlike the stellated dodecahedron we made this one has... twelve pentagrammal faces. so I guess this one is... also a stellated okay, since this one isn't as spiky as the dodecahedron, and we'll call the other one yeah, that makes sense. another way of thinking about these stellated and then making its edges longer until they this process is called stellation. this pair of regular star polyhedra was described the Kepler solids, as companions to the platonic and so, we can now conclude that there are except. we're still not done with star polyhedra. almost 200 years after Kepler described the Poinsot found another pair of regular star the set. today, the four regular star polyhedra together part four: the Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra to describe what Poinsot found, we'll first symbol. as I showed before, a Schlafli symbol defines of each of its faces followed by how many while this definition works for the platonic since a pentagon and a pentagram have the the solution to this is to represent pentagrammal there is a reason for this which I will not makes sense and isn't just arbitrary notation. so, the small and great stellated dodecahedron now, the fact that star faces are represented really mean the number of sides of each face; for a specific regular polygon. so then, what about the second number in the are they notational shorthand for specific take the symbol for a cube, {4,3}. this can but what about a cube is triangular? well, if you look at one vertex, where three cross-section, and you'll see a triangle. you can say that a cube's vertex figure oh, and by the way, this Wikipedia animation through all the faces of a cube at once, you an octahedron is the dual of a cube, because figures and an octahedron has triangular faces so, who cares? why does any of this matter? well, just like how a face doesn't have have to be a convex polygon either. and that's what Poinsot found. if you make a shape with pentagons as its you get a great dodecahedron, and doing the icosahedron. and if you try it with squares, another way of thinking about the Poinsot and an icosahedron and making their faces this is another type of stellation, called anyway, together with the pair of stellated polyhedra, and, if grouped in with the platonic regular polyhedra. I really like the Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra. they have most of the same properties as the look way cooler because of all the spikes. they're super underrated, and I think more the rest of the regular polyhedra definitely what you'd call "solids". you'll see part five: the regular tilings what we've seen so far is that you can use icosahedra, and great icosahedra. you can use square faces to make cubes, pentagonal and pentagrammal faces to make small and great hexagonal faces just don't work. but like, why not? you can fit three of them it's not like heptagons where they don't eventually get something like this: a polyhedron it has a few names, but it's most well known regular tilings of the plane, along with the true, these are not closed shapes like the but they still fit the definition of "regular other face, any edge to any other edge, or they're flat, they're infinitely large, once again, even if you feel like they shouldn't polyhedra, you'd need to specifically change to exclude them. just because they're infinitely large doesn't and so, finally, we have all twelve regular and really, when I first started on this video, I was going to make a video called "there about how often the Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra about regular polyhedra, even though they're solids. it would've been fun, you know? I could've then gone into things like what some of the restrictions. I could've had a reason to bring up the but, as I was doing the bare minimum amount missing any regular polyhedra, I found something. it turns out, I was missing some. I was missing quite a few, in fact. so many that it would've been very silly twelve of them. part six: the Petrie-Coxeter polyhedra in 1926, John Petrie discovered a pair of tilings, are not flat. shortly afterwards, Petrie's fellow geometer Wikipedia calls these the "regular skew "Petrie-Coxeter polyhedra" is more fitting. before I can explain the Petrie-Coxeter polyhedra, in polygons. imagine a triangle. now, add one side and make it a square. add another side and make it a pentagon, and as you keep adding more sides, the shape you once you have infinitely many sides, you end like a circle. but it only looks like a circle because we're indeed, since there are infinitely many of if we're thinking of the regular apeirogon infinitesimally small. so let's zoom in infinitely far, so we can at this zoom level, it doesn't look like just like the regular tilings of the plane, also completely flat. can you make a regular apeirogon that isn't well, yes, you can! all you need to do is this is a shape which infinitely alternates in a regular pattern. the technical name for this shape is a "zigzag", of a regular polygon. it actually doesn't matter what the angle you want. the key observation that leads from zigzags closely at this square tiling. you can see clear zigzag pattern, and in fact the same tilings. maybe, by examining tilings of 3D space, we'll flat! and that's exactly what Petrie and tilings of 3D space are usually called "honeycombs", you can't call the hexagonal tiling a honeycomb are derived from the cubic honeycomb. the cubic honeycomb is a tiling of 3D space a zigzag-like pattern along the square faces a regular polyhedron called a "mucube". a helpful way to think about the mucube is that have two opposite faces missing. by arranging six of these almost-cubes in block of the mucube. this can be extended next is the muoctahedron, which is based on while this honeycomb is derived from the cubic it's structured from the ground up. its cells are not cubes, but rather truncated truncation is this process that I like to of a polyhedron. when you truncate an octahedron, its eight six vertices become squares. this shape isn't of faces, but it can be used to tile 3D space, from this tiling, you get another regular the third Petrie-Coxeter polyhedron, which based on the quarter cubic honeycomb. once again, it's derived from the cubic its structure if we talk about its cells instead. the cells of a quarter cubic honeycomb are all of the triangular faces of a quarter cubic and so, there we have it! three completely regular infinite polyhedra, have some actual depth to them. you've got the mucube made out of infinitely both made out of infinitely many hexagons. this is exciting stuff! taking these three Petrie-Coxeter polyhedra in fact fifteen regular polyhedra. from here, things are going to get a lot weirder. part seven: the Petrials what exactly is a polygon? yeah, I defined it earlier, but there might that weren't a part of it. for example, there's nothing in the definition let's say you were to take a zigzag, but you fold it up into the third dimension, and this has some rather big implications. like, okay, what is the area of this polygon? see, the question doesn't even make sense this thing doesn't have area; it doesn't a "skew polygon", and they're huge game so, what do you get when you try to make a this sounds tricky. just like zigzags, it's to be regular. you can move them about and deform them while where would you even begin? what Petrie found was that you can actually polygon faces and convert it into another this is called the "Petrie dual", or "Petrial" take the cube, for instance. let's rotate this cube so we're viewing now, look at the cube's silhouette. it sure looks a whole lot like a regular hexagon, along this edge and draw a hexagon along the it again, the illusion breaks, and it doesn't but, it is a regular hexagon. this is a regular of a cube. this is called the cube's "Petrie cube's eight vertices, you can create a it's made out of four hexagons instead of sometimes, finding the Petrie polygon of a vertices, other times it involves looking use the more formal definition. start at some vertex, and follow along some by definition, this edge will always be part you can continue along the line you've drawn the face to the left of the edge you've along the face to the right. if you turn the same direction enough times up back where you started, and you will have but if instead of doing that, you alternate then right, then left, then right, and so instead. and yeah, all fifteen of the regular polyhedra giving us another fifteen regular polyhedra! find the Petrials of those Petrials? do you get another fifteen new shapes?" well, if you take, for example, the Petrial end up with is just a normal cube. the property and Petrial cube are in fact Petrials of each to properly understand the Petrials you really down. like, okay, here's four regular polyhedra. just looking at their wireframes like this, two of them have flat faces which can be filled and that this one is a great dodecahedron. but for the other two, we can't do that. the best option I have is to just highlight a sense of the structure. and even then it's still super hard to not here, let's have a quick montage of all from a certain angle that makes them look anyway, with these Petrials we can now say at least, there's thirty that have actual we have officially reached dark geometry territory. researching the remaining eighteen polyhedra after sifting through pages upon pages of get some help from the fine people in the I could not have done this without them. very frustratingly, I am aware that of these discovered by Branko Grunbaum in 1977 and in 1981, and I have literally no idea which most of my information about these shapes and Schulte categorize the Grunbaum-Dress part eight: the blended apeirohedra twelve of the dark polyhedra can be created using a process called "blending". each or with an "apeirogon". this terminology to think of these two kinds of blending as let's start by blending each of them with what that really means is that you're taking by lifting some of the vertices. just like how you can turn an apeirogon into polygon, making each of these tilings spikier oh, and for the Petrials, as you'd probably but is technically different. standard deal for Petrials, really. okay, now for the other type of blending, I'm going to have to first explain yet another take a look at this. you might think that this is a square. but look again! you're actually looking into the third dimension. this is a helix, and you can make a helix Vi Hart made a whole thing about this type so, to create the other blended apeirohedra, with helices, some being clockwise and others Petrials that look the same but aren't. now, none of these blended apierohedra actually I think it makes sense to call these ones, versions of the tilings, and to call these they're made out of helices. so, these twelve infinite shapes get us up insert joke here. part nine: the pure Grunbaum-Dress polyhedra we're almost done. there's only six regular polyhedra left video title. I'd like to introduce you to this chart. this is a chart featured in McMullen and Schulte's to understand. it shows how all twelve so-called "pure take it all in, this is what I had to work half of these are the Petrie-Coxeter polyhedra see, there's the mucube, muoctahedron, and the letter pi is used here to show which shapes are the Petrials of the Petrie-Coxeter polyhedra. there's also the letter delta, which connects so you can see that the mucube and muoctahedron all we're left with is the six in the middle let's begin with this thing. the letter eta there means that it's derived basically, you start with a mucube, and then of the square faces, in this symmetrical way at a vertex. now, remove the original mucube and just keep what you're left with is, I guess, the result half. I think it makes sense to call this a "halved now, if you follow along these edges, you'll that will be important. anyway, you can also find the Petrie dual square faces. from the Petrial halved mucube, you can derive remember, the delta there means "dual", mucube, and we get this cool new shape with now let's go over to these two on the right while they can be derived from the halved from the ground up instead. start with some square helices. arrange the square helices in this pattern. now, if you view this thing from just the come close together. in fact, the distance between them is just make some squares! but actually, they're around, what you've filled in is even more isn't that so cool? it's this infinite directions at once. I'm going to call this thing the trihelical the trihelical square tiling has a Petrial, go in four directions at once, so it makes tiling. okay, last one. begin with a muoctahedron. each of the hexagonal faces can be turned now, looking at it at from just the right part of an infinite tower of triangles. turn that infinite tower into a helix, and skew muoctahedron. part ten: summary there are forty eight regular polyhedra, eighteen the simplest one is the tetrahedron. by looking construct the tetrahedron's Petrie polygon, another simple regular polyhedron is made the cube has a dual called the octahedron, cube and Petrial octahedron, both of which another regular polyhedron is the dodecahedron, its dual and greatening, the icosahedron and and the same is true of the great dodecahedron's the icosahedron's greatening, the great the great icosahedron also has a dual, which the great stellated dodecahedron. the Petrial dodecahedron, Petrial icosahedron, stellated dodecahedron all have skew decagons and Petrial small stellated dodecahedron have the other thirty regular polyhedra are all six of the regular apeirohedra are flat tilings: square tiling, the hexagonal tiling and its duals, the Petrial hexagonal tiling and Petrial all six regular tilings can be blended, either tiling, blended hexagonal tiling, blended tiling, blended Petrial hexagonal tiling, or with apeirogons, forming the helical square triangular tiling, helical Petrial square and the helical Petrial triangular tiling. a mucube can be constructed by removing some its dual, the muoctahedron, can be skewed the mucube and muoctahedron both have regular muoctahedron. if you cut the mucube's faces in half, you the halved mucube and the Petrial halved mucube tiling and the trihelical square tiling, respectively. the Petrial halved mucube can itself be halved mutetrahedron can be derived either as the of the dual of the Petrial halved mucube. and those are all forty-eight regular polyhedra. or are they? I still made a lot of assumptions in the definition I assumed that a regular polyhedron can't in the same place. I assumed that the faces of a regular polyhedron I mean, heck, I assumed that a regular polyhedron removing any of these assumptions makes the and the version of the question I answered still, I think these were all reasonable restrictions there are forty-eight regular polyhedra. I've been jan Misali, and I don't understand including any diagrams of