Card: How might the universe end? Michio Kaku: Well, when we try to look at the question, &quot;Well Professor, how do you is expanding? How do you know that it came from a big bang? How can you project so far into the future, Well one way we do this is by looking at the Now, the doppler shift is something that even When children play &quot;Star Wars&quot; with each other, Right? Well, what makes that err, sound? It's the Doppler effect. When a car moves toward you, the pitch is pitch is lower. And it sounds like this. Eee err. We've all heard it. Same thing with starlight. When yellow light moves toward you, it turns When the yellow light moves away from you Now, how can you memorize this? Well, I was reading a paper a few years ago school physics teacher who got a speeding The physics teacher went to the blackboard My car was moving toward a yellow light. Light is compressed in a forward direction turned green. This is the Doppler shift,&quot; he said. And he went to the black board and he correctly shift. And then this high school physics teacher I do not deserve a traffic ticket.&quot; Well, the judge scratched his head and according there is a law higher than the state of New But then, according to the article, there he raised his hand and he said, &quot;Your Honor, be in his high school physics class and he this only happens when you approach the speed End of article. To this day, I still don't know what happened But I tell my students, that if I'm ever in they better not raise their hand if they know good for their grade. So, when we look in the heavens, we look at we find that the light is slightly reddish. Redder than it's supposed to be. That means that these objects, the gigantic the universe is expanding. Well, we could run the video tape backwards, could then calculate when all these galaxies And that's how we calculate the age of the when we calculate the expansion of the universe. So by running the video tape backwards, we years old, plus or minus 1%. So, we now know the age of the universe. 13.7 billion years by running the video tape But what happens if we hit fast forward. What happens if we go forward in time billions Well, here it gets murkier. But by analyzing how the universe has been the universe is slowing down. We used to think the universe is aging and steam. Wrong. We now believe that the universe is speeding It's actually accelerating, in runaway mode crunch, we'll probably die in a big freeze. We're not positive. We don't know if this will keep on going for But if so, the universe is in a runaway mode. It means that one day, perhaps when we look nothing because the distant galaxies are so Not a pleasant thought. But our universe may eventually die in a big Card: How soon would this scenario most likely Michio Kaku: Nobody knows when this big freeze However, estimates have been made, perhaps of years. One day it will get so cold that you'll look black. All the stars will have exhausted all of their neutron stars, dead black holes, the temperature point even consciousness, even thought itself, and some people think that perhaps the laws life; that we're all going to die when the But you know, there's a loophole. There's a loophole in the laws of physics. you see, trillions of years from now, perhaps is called, &quot;The Planck Energy.&quot; The Planck Energy is the ultimate energy. It's the energy of the Big Bang. It's the energy at which gravity itself begins You know that if you have a microwave oven water and make it boil; ice can melt, water But what happens if you crank up that microwave Eventually the steam starts to break up into If you crank it up some more, all of a sudden And then if you crank up that microwave oven break apart and you get a plasma of protons You crank it up some more and you get a gluon And if you crank it some more to this incredible Ten to the 19 billion electron volts, we're to boil. Even space time becomes unstable. Bubbles begin to form at this Planck Energy. And perhaps these bubbles are gateways. Gateways to a parallel universe. Of course, we're not sure about this. This pure speculation, but there are theories next to our universe. And in fact, the Large Hadron Collider will the existence of parallel universes. So, think of us a ants living on a sheet of sheets of paper with other ants living on And perhaps we are very close to these other The energy necessary to reach a parallel universe electron volts. I would suppose that trillions of years from demise of the universe itself might decide To leave our universe and enter a parallel the looking glass to enter Wonderland.