I think our first day in business, we sold like 300 Today, on a really busy day in the summer, we will in our scoop shops across the country and that number In 2008, Ben Van Leeuwen saw an opening in the ice butter, fat egg yolk and cream mixed with chocolate barrel aged vanilla and pistachios flown in from Fast forward a year and Ben, his brother Pete, and ice cream on the streets of New York City out of a Today, Van Leeuwen has grown from a single ice cream coast to coast. Over 10,000 stores carry the brand's to 500 flavors, ranging from honeycomb and wild unique combinations like Kraft Mac and Cheese and There are three numbers to look out for in this story. $60,000, the amount it took to get Van Leeuwen off the $18.7 million, the amount secured in a 2020 funding And $300,000 the amount of money Van Leeuwen pulls in Here's how Van Leeuwen turned a lone ice cream truck Hey, I'm Ben Van Leeuwen, the co-founder and CEO of Van And I'm here at our shop in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Ben Van Leeuwen grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut. Even from a young age, he had an interest in business. Ben was just a college freshman when he first entered I saw an advertisement in the newspaper. It said drive an ice cream truck, earned $500 a week. I needed a summer job. I responded to that ad and I ended up driving a Good Ben drove that Good Humor truck for two summers saving Fast forward to when I was graduating college. I had done okay in college, but not great. I hadn't done internships. I had just driven an ice cream truck and I hadn't But that all changed when he came across a Mr. Softee truck while walking down the street in New Suddenly, the idea to start an ice cream company hit There was no hesitation. There was no maybe I'll do this, maybe this was a good And part of that is because I knew it worked. I had sold ice cream off of trucks. This wasn't reinventing the wheel. This wasn't rocket science. Ben wanted to sell artisanal ice cream with simple, and ice cream was born. Creating a business plan took a year. Ben's inspiration for his ice cream recipe came from It was a creme anglaise vanilla ice cream. And what was unique about it is it had a lot of eggs, Of course, whole vanilla beans. This base carried over into Van Leeuwen's recipe, the became the tasting lab where Van Leeuwen's first I think there were 35 versions of chocolate that I Single origin from here, single farm from here, blends More couverture, more cocoa powder, less fat, more After the flavors were finalized, it was time to get We determined that we would need $250,000 to start Van Cream. That was enough to buy a step van for about $60,000 turning it into an ice cream truck. That number would leave them with enough money to build But from the outset, there was serious trouble It was really hard for us to get the money. We had no business experience. I thought it was a great idea. I thought I was a good pitch guy. I guess I wasn't that good. We didn't raise $250,000. We didn't even raise close to that. We were able to scrape together $60,000. But the trio were determined to make the $60,000 work. So how do you start an ice cream company with $60,000? That's not even enough to buy an ice cream making For the first two years, we outsourced all of our So step one of starting an ice cream company was a factory to make our ice cream. So we found a small factory in upstate New York. We went up there for every production run hand into big brewing bags. Step two for us was buying the truck on eBay, The first truck we bought on eBay was $2,500. It was an absolute piece of bleep. We bought old reproduction grills from 1950s trucks, 1980s trucks. And then marketing in those days was 100% bringing our street and selling ice cream. The brand's esthetic was considered crucial from the The team hired an illustrator for $80 bucks an hour to for each flavor on its truck. But the logo was very much inspired by a combination of Victorian scripts and sort of Americana 1950s . After obtaining a permit, Van Leeuwen's truck was up shop would be yet another challenge. Somebody had said, Wall Street's really good, it's very We spend like 90 minutes driving around Wall Street. We can't park, so we give up. We drive up to Canal Street. It's like June 21st ish, 2008, 80 degrees outside. So we're thinking this is the spot. We pull up and literally after like 30 minutes, we had nor had anyone even like showed an interest in the So at this point, we think maybe this idea wasn't a So the corner of Green and Prince in Soho, we pull up By the time we've opened the window, there's 15 people So at that moment, we knew, okay, we're on to Van Leeuwen launched with ten flavors, including unique flavors like Gianduja and Ginger. At the time, each scoop cost $3.95. On the first day of business, Laura, Ben and Pete sold $2,000. That same day they were approached by a And they said, Do you do wholesale? We said, we'll do anything that brings in revenue. So yes, we do wholesale. And three months later, we were on the shelves in By the end of that first summer, they were operating But despite their success, the early days for Van It was horrible. I mean, it was so, so hard. I mean, you're driving this particularly in our case, the post office for two decades, that we turned into There wasn't a choice to say, okay, the trucks didn't let's take a month off and regroup and decide what to We needed the revenue. We had to work hard. Their hard work paid off. By 2010, Van Leeuwen hit $1 million in revenue during Ben, Laura and Pete say they paid themselves about From there, things continued to pick up. So two years into the business, we had the opportunity was not part of the business plan. The Brooklyn shop had things that the truck didn't like It also generated more revenue than the truck. Literally, within three hours of opening that shop, we cream truck. The scoop shop kept the same aesthetic and design as helped put Van Leeuwen on the map. In 2012, they started manufacturing ice cream in bookkeeper and office assistant. By 2017, Van Leeuwen had grown to ten scoop shops, In 2018, the company raised its first institutional investment from Strand Equity Partners funded the the expansion of the Van Leeuwen corporate team. That investment also allowed Van Leeuwen to embark on It enlisted the design firm Pentagram to refresh the We spent over a year and a half with them working on a that wasn't only great, that wasn't only distinct, but what we had done, the ethos of the company, what we So the Van Leeuwen pints went from this to this. You have the logo, you have the flavor name, you have In $18.7 million funding round in 2020 helped pay for shop as well as a larger corporate team. Van Leeuwen has released nearly 500 distinct flavors you might be surprised to see in ice cream form like But these unusual flavors aren't just for shock value. They serve a crucial business purpose as well. So the Kraft mac and cheese is actually really, really Caramelized onion jam and ice cream is awesome. From a more tactical marketing approach, they allow us awareness so we do not advertise. We believe that we can best serve our customers, teams, not into advertising. So doing a flavor like Hidden Valley Ranch and Kraft brand. And we hope that not only will they enjoy those vanilla, they'll try the honeycomb, they'll try the Van Leeuwen's most popular flavor is Honeycomb, These days, a scoop costs $6.90 at most locations. The company is constantly coming up with new products. This year, it added ice cream sandwiches to its menu, beginnings. We have over a thousand team members, 60 in corporate, and the remainder are the folks running the ice cream Today, Van Leeuwen operates nearly 50 scoop shops 10,000 grocery stores, including Whole Foods and A really busy day in the summer. We generate up to $300,000 in revenue trading ice We will serve over 40,000 guests in our scoop shops country and that number is growing in our wholesale many as 50,000 pints every day. Ben, Laura and Pete still play a vital role in the Here in their Greenpoint office, the team samples new operations to keep Van Leeuwen growing. By the end of 2023, Van Leeuwen plans to open 18 new as its first international location in Singapore. In 2024, they'll open 25 to 30 new scoop shops. I think as long as we are happy, as long as we're able company where our team is happy and that provides course able to keep our guests happy and continue Van Leeuwen.