Transcriber: Amanda Chu So I'm four years old. It's the early 1960s. And I'm looking at a globe of the Earth, and I can clearly see that Africa and It's like a picture puzzle or a broken cookie. Obviously, they had to have fit together once upon a time. Of course I wasn't Mapmakers and others had been seeing it for hundreds of years. But if I had brought my observations to a mainstream geologist they would have told me for there was no way known to science that something as could possibly move around on the Earth. That was just crazy talk. But jump forward to the end of the '60s. Hard-working scientists and searching the deep-sea had found the evidence, and developed the understanding of how in fact the lighter could move around and the science of plate tectonics is now a key part So this just shows how science changes - sometimes in one childhood, other times over decades and years, Now, jump ahead - fast-forward Now I've got the internet, where any burning question And I'm looking at a website but it's on the fringe of science. It calls into question Now, I'm not going to tell you because it's in that Twilight Zone where respectable scientists don't go. But we'll get there eventually, so trust me. But the question that this website Is it possible to orbit the Earth in a way that creates on the ground below? Like, if I took a rubber band could my satellite go around Now, this is not an easy thing to explain. But I do an internet search, and I can't find an answer. And I go to a friend and I put it to him, and he thinks for a moment, he goes, "Sure! Orbit over the equator!" Okay, yeah, that's a valid answer. If I'm going over the equator it doesn't matter I'm always going to stay But I want my rubber band I need to have that. And for that, he can't give me an answer, and I can't find a clear answer How strange is that? Well, here's an image that will help begin to understand We're all familiar with this. The International Space Station, we go over a path again and again. It's like wrapping a ball of string. The International Space Station the Earth turns every 24 hours - you get this kind of pattern. Alright. So, what am I going to have to learn Well, we have to go a little bit deeper. I promise, no math. But there are three key things that will inform the ground path First thing is your altitude. The ISS orbits around 400 km On this globe, that's like seven millimeters, above the globe. The second thing is the inclination The ISS is at 51 degrees, meaning it goes over most of the land as it goes around and around. The third thing Now, the shape can be like the ISS, out to very, very elliptical, long and narrow. But the key thing about an ellipse has to be at one of the And this is where the math Thanks to Johannes Kepler in the 1600s, we can calculate exactly your speed for any given shape. Alright. Now we've got all this loaded up. The altitude, the inclination, my brain is whirling. How am I ever And if there's not an answer, how am I going to prove that to know that my quest is fruitless. Okay ... So I get on the phone to a friend who's a genuine aerospace and he points out that there's only a certain number So I start looking and there's two of them as really interesting. The first one is Geostationary, right? Geostationary: this is an orbit an inclination way far from the Earth. And the key thing is that its altitude in the same time This means you stay and this makes it easy for the television to come to your house because the satellite Even at night when the stars the satellite is right there. But now the weird thing is the satellite has a ground path It's a single dot! So in a way, this is like the opposite The second orbit that looked &quot;Molniya&quot; is the Russian word This was developed by the Soviet Union The molniya orbit is highly inclined, and very elongated. And it's timed so that it goes around the Earth And that gives it this amazing U-shape, the double-U shape, that goes around the Earth. The molina satellite hangs out high say North America - and perhaps it's taking pictures then it comes zipping in and comes back out, and then hangs out again, but half a day has gone by, so now it's over the and it can download So these two orbits give me an idea. What if I was in an orbit that took exactly two days Okay? So I'd start out above the Earth One day later, I'm on the other side. And one day's gone by, so I'm also over the opposite side Another day goes by, the Earth has turned again, That seems promising, right? I'm getting really obsessed I get on the phone to the friend and he's really like, "Okay! Crazy quest. Good. &quot;Tell you what. There's a really You should go check it out because it will show you Okay, I go to STK, I put in my numbers, And there it is right before my eyes! A single ground-path, I'm stunned that it was actually there! Now I'm thinking, &quot;I can't be the first person I'm not a rocket scientist.&quot; So I get on the phone to another friend who works for big aerospace companies And he sounds a little bit skeptical, but he fires up his copy of STK. He asks for my numbers, he puts them in, and boom! - he gets the same result! And he says: &quot;You know, You should write this up. Put it in an aerospace journal.&quot; Okay. Cool. Well, so it's a new thing, right? And new things need names, so I'm thinking the key property of this is that it's a two-day orbit, so I'm going to call it a &quot;Two-day Orbit,&quot; or &quot;2DO&quot; for short, to fit the pattern of all the other that aerospace people like to use. (Laughter) So now that I've got a name for it, But for a brain like mine, you immediately think, Or a four-day orbit? And yeah, it's all there, So I go back to my original search. And I'm fine-tuning the orbit - a 31-degree inclination, And I find it has a number of really One: The orbit stays the radiation belts that are And if you're an astronaut, you can fly through it. If you are electronics, So this orbit is outside of that. Second feature: It's also outside of the Earth's so the magnetic field is inside of you. Third feature: It's always in the sun! It's an orbit that never crosses into even at the northern solstice - the most extreme tilt So, what do we do with an orbit like this? Well, since we're always in the sun, how about make a super power satellite where we can collect solar energy and beam it down to a series of sites charging them up every two days Or maybe we could put up and we could shine light into dark places that need more light. Or maybe there's other uses. All right ... But what about that website That fringe one that respectable scientists Well, it was this. A researcher named Jim Alison noticed that a significant number some of the oldest, all line up on a single circle a straight line. When you put a two-day orbit it's not an exact circle, it's got slightly but it lines up pretty closely. Let's hop aboard a Two-day Orbit satellite and take a tour We start over the most famous the Great Pyramids, with their mysterious chambers, A little bit later, we cross the Sahara, we cross the Atlantic Ocean, we cross over the Amazon basin, and we come to Machu Picchu, with its mysterious stone structures and all the other Then we fly past the Plain of Nazca, with its mysterious etched drawings Of course we're 60,000 kilometers up, so if we want to see those shapes we've got to have a pretty good telescope. We keep going, across the Pacific. 4,000 km - we cross directly with its gigantic heads, actually they're full figures Continuing on across the Pacific, we come back up over the equator. We fly up over Cambodia and the ancient temples Continuing on up into Asia, to the site of Mohenjo-daro, one of the oldest with its script that has because it's so old and remote from us. We continue on over the Middle East, past Persepolis, And then we continue on over Petra, with its amazing stone structures, And then it brings us back right where we started. So obviously, not all ancient sites Stonehenge, the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem, all sorts of sites in China, Africa, Asia, Central America. But the sites that are on the circle have a lot of things in common. One: They have some of the largest stonework huge blocks that we wouldn't Two: The style of the stonework They fit together. You cannot fit a knife And then look at The big moai figures there's hundreds of them. But there are also walls, walls that appear to be on Easter Island made by humans. The walls are made of basalt - They match the style 4,000 km away across the Pacific, also made of basalt. Then there is these mysterious Many on the pyramids; many all over South America. What are those knobs for? Why did they go to the effort We don't know! The scooping, it looks like and somebody came along with a trowel We don't know! Then there is the precision stonework - perfectly flat surfaces! Things that you would and they would grind with diamond. We can't figure out with bronze or iron tools. OK. Want to get a little bit weirder? There are cultures around the world Asia's got them. South America's got them. And they have this other feature: &quot;The handbag of the gods.&quot; (Laughter) Why? How? All around the world. The handbag of the gods and most recently, which has been buried Which means the handbag It wasn't added by people later on. Okay. Now I'm not here to invoke To me that doesn't answer anything. It's like putting a bumper sticker on it, but I want to read the book! Where did all this come from? Who created this? I don't want to take anything away from the ancient peoples I want to know more about them. I want to know how they did it, and I want to give them full credit So what we do? Well, we get out our science toolkit. First thing: What's our theory? Well, researchers who look into this question our traditional story where we go from a long period up to settling down and doing agriculture, and eventually moving into city-states. Researchers suspect - and there is good evidence for - 13,000 years ago there was a more How advanced is hard to say, but we know they could do stuff And then what happened? Suddenly there was a catastrophe! Something terrible happened - the oceans rose, temperatures dropped, cities were abandoned. Time goes by; civilization recovers. We get into hunter-gatherer mode. We get into agriculture, city-states. Okay. So it's a story, right? Is it a good story? Maybe. Maybe not. But what does the science tell us? Well, to begin with, we have great data showing the oceans 100 meters! 330 feet! That means the ancient are now completely submerged. Secondly: Greenland ice cores show us that there was and it lasted for a thousand years or so, around the world. Thirdly: The male DNA has clues. Around the world the diversity again, around 13,000 years ago. It wasn't just here or there, A lot of men were not passing on their DNA That declined, and then it began to recover. So what could have happened Well, we have evidence a comet or a meteorite. It left very distinctive particles It set a lot of stuff on fire because there's very found right there as well. We have seen half a million ranging from New Jersey like a giant cosmic So there's hard work to be done. We need more. We need more data, more evidence. We need to begin thinking and engineering them into science fact! We need to see how we can where we can now fly better than any bird, or the submarine, where we can swim better than any fish, or now, rockets that can fly into space and be reused - unlike any animal ever! Check out this map - the light blue Most of that area was land What might be out there? We need to make a bunch of cheap drones with some kind of technology on board that we can send swimming looking for ancient sites, that we've overlooked Or what about these big rocks that have been sitting next to each other Is there some technique we can develop that will let us know Have cosmic rays been making little traces that we could read and count up and tell us Or what about surfaces? We make a surface on a stone, Does something in the atmosphere Does something in the stone at a measured rate and figure out a time Or there's this big pile A million stones piled up. What are they doing Have they been blocking it Can we compare what's underneath not covered up for that period of time? Because the Egyptian records don't really We're going to have to find that out! Sometimes I feel like looking at the Earth, trying to figure out One of my heroes, Carl Sagan, reminds us that &quot;Extraordinary claims To that I would add that extraordinary evidence And I'm quite certain that if we use our science and we do the hard work and spend the money, find the answers, we're gonna learn more where we came from, and where we might be able to go. And I think building is doable if we know So let's do it! Thank you. (Applause)