My name is Michael Franzese, and I was a former capo in one of the five New York I'm now residing in the Los Angeles area, and I'm here to be a movie critic. Jelly: Oh. Oh, Dr. Sobel: Hey, Easter weekend, eh? Franzese: There was In every crew and every somebody that big that was around. Italians eat a lot, and You know, I doubt you'd The last time something like this occurred was Appalachia, back in New York, when guys from all over I think they probably modeled You know, ever since law enforcement invaded that meeting, it never happened again. Ace: Can you do it with your left hand? Signaller: Well, I've never tried. Ace: So you're a righty? Signaller: Yeah. Franzese: I can tell you this because, you know, in a mob-run casino, we certainly wouldn't have tolerated anybody cheating like that. So it could've been this, I mean, you break somebody's legs, Even though this is Lefty Rosenthal, he wasn't a made member, but he dressed the part. De Niro and Gotti, and, we dressed up pretty good. At every weekend, I was Half the time I didn't know who died or who was getting married, but we had to go as a matter of respect. So we had to dress up quite a bit. I mean, I probably had Donnie: Like Raquel Welch forget about it. But then, if you disagree, than a Cadillac, forget about it. Franzese: All right, This is probably one of in all of mob moviedom. You know, it's funny. I'm a speaker now, and every time I say, &quot;fuggedaboutit,&quot; which I say by habit, This scene made that word famous. It applies to everything. Just like the sit-down. Anytime you had any kind of meeting, it was always at a sit-down. Had a sit-down, and discuss, you know, a life-and-death matter. We had a sit-down just to have dinner. Everything was done at a sit-down. Chili: You're an entry You're just a guy who owes me money. Martin: All right. How about this? [Franzese laughs] Franzese: It's, No. 1, it's the perception that this person is a serious guy, that can, you know, maybe hurt you, and that intensifies that look. 'Cause I know a lot of times, you know, people said, &quot;Hey, all you've and they get nervous.&quot; Travolta, I thought, killed this role. You know, a lot of mob guys, I mean, myself being one of them, got Travolta took it to another level, wanting to be a director We were more or less behind financing some of these things, getting to know some of the people, some of the perks involved with it. Really, that was it. Henry: Then you had Nicky Eyes... Nicky: What's up, guy? Henry: And Mikey Franzese. Mikey: I saw that guy, Franzese: Yeah, no, I don't I'll be honest with you, I had just gotten out of prison, and I went to see this with my wife. And after a few minutes she you know: &quot;Is this Is that what your life was all about?&quot; And I said: &quot;Honey, c'mon, it's a movie. They make things up.&quot; You know, &quot;Don't pay attention.&quot; No sooner do I say that than they introduce my character, and she looks at me, and I say, &quot;C'mon, we gotta go.&quot; And I walked out, 'cause I It was a different crew. Henry: Here's Frankie the Wop. Frankie: Listen, are you out of trouble? Henry: Freddie No Nose. Franzese: People say, with those nicknames?&quot; You know, like, there was a guy that And the reason we called him that because he used to shoot when he was practicing his marksmanship. You know, we had Benny Eggs. &quot;Well, why'd you call him Benny Eggs?&quot; Well, he liked eggs. He ate them all the time. So we weren't really We had Fat Tony Salerno. &quot;Why'd you call him Fat Tony?&quot; Well, he was fat. Tommy: What do you mean, funny? Funny how? How am I funny? Henry: Just... Franzese: You know, they a lot more significant in the life He was just a lost soul. He always had a drug For me, Joe Pesci is the best You know, he was around street guys, he knew guys out on the street. And he just had it down so perfectly. Police: Hey, put your eyes up. Franzese: You know, most they didn't bother us. You know, it was really investigative agencies like I doubt if anybody, even though he was protecting his son, would ever come right out front like that and look to put people on Front street, in other words, you're telling the police that, you know, one of these guys might be So you're actually, you're becoming a rat or a snitch. And, you know, you pay a price for that. Charlie: He has about $30. It's all he's got on him, Michael. Michael: Where's the rest? Charlie: Yeah, where's the rest? Johnny Boy: Well, I bought over here while I was waiting. Franzese: You know, this you know, very accurate. Shylocking, loan sharking, you know, basically lending money at usurious rates. And everybody that was in that life was in that business. That had any money. You know, he plays these roles good. I think, today, you know, he thinks he really is a It's kinda permeated his Marge: Homer, where'd you get that truck? Homer: Uh...it fell off a truck. You know, a truck truck. Franzese: A lot of I mean, that was the Whether it be clothing, a suit, you know, electronics, cars, whatever. You know, hijacking was a no question about it. And there was some guys that Today, it's very difficult, to change the serial numbers and make a new car out of it, and nobody could ever find it, so. Hoffa: Let's get outta Franzese: You know, I'm a little bit jaded when I look at this film, only because I know that the Sheeran story is fiction. I mean, he didn't kill Hoffa. I didn't know Jimmy Hoffa personally, but it was during my time. But I do have insight into, you know, what really happened there. He was a hot-headed guy, and he was one of the most powerful guys in the country at that point. Remember this, you control the teamsters, in a big way, you control the country. You know, No. 1, you in your pension funds. You call a strike as a teamster, you know, you've got 2 1/2 million people stopping, nothing gets delivered, everything stops, and that's a tremendous amount of power. The Joey Gallo killing, that was, 'cause I know, you know, for Like I said, that was our time. And, you know, I was I wasn't the shooter, don't get me wrong, but I knew it was our family. For him to be so, you know, outspoken about doing I mean, the scene was accurate. I mean, he did get killed in that way. He did get out into the street, and his family was there, the whole thing. But Sheeran wasn't the shooter. Reporter: You are in effect you've not simply been Franzese: I mean, he You know, everybody looks a 40, 50-year-old guy. He was, like, 29 years old. He was in his 30s when You know, Capone was bigger He wasn't bigger than life with us. I mean, nobody really regarded him. You know, even my father said, you know: &quot;We chased him out of Brooklyn. He went to Chicago.&quot; And my father's 103, so he was around all of these guys. You know, unfortunately, I is about murder in that life. And I will tell you this. Murder was taken very seriously, OK? It can only be approved by the boss. So I've been very, very where I am now, and not dead or in prison, like just about all of my associates. If a mob boss was ever he'd be in the trunk of his along with the psychiatrist. That would never happen. Crowd: Don't do it. No, no, no! Don't do it! Franzese: There's no way in the world if a mob boss hit anybody that that guy would come back at him. No way. Especially in front of audience. If he did, you don't ever raise No matter who you are, you raise your hand to a made guy, you're dead, and so, and they know that. So this is not a realistic scene. So David Chase gets in a friend of mine, Jack &quot;Look, I'm doing this series for Fox. And we want you to be And I said, &quot;You know, I'm on So I turned it down. That's how smart I am, right? &quot;The Sopranos.&quot; But I always wondered why he contacted me. In my house, back in the the government, the FBI, They had it in the kitchen of our house, and they picked up a lot of the conversation on a daily basis. And I am telling you that Tony Soprano's mother was so much like my mother. You know, maybe he got the maybe he did something, but he got a hold of that surveillance tapes, and he patterned that woman on my mother. And I said, I would, I tell you, I would almost stake my life. I've never had a chance Carmine: One other thing, though. John said he went to a Tony: Yeah. Carmine: A don doesn't wear shorts. Franzese: That's not true at all. I mean, I saw...[scoffs] you know, on a hot summer guys would sit out in front and they'd be in shorts. Even the boss. I mean, you know, that's not true. I mean, you go on a Or maybe somebody told them that that, you know, didn't know But that's not true.