Or about 150, 200 yards from right ventricle, no doubt about it. And we're seeing strange We just read the newspaper the his right to sign off revenue got about it It's it's weird and we don't know and all of a sudden and I'm thinking, is this a warning? Is this communication? Is this what is this? You know, what do we do now? There was something and his voice is quite shaky, But on radar, And these witnesses saw something These are military witnesses. And and these people, and say this is highly unusual, inside the British Ministry of Defense. Nick Pope was cleared to read closely held state secrets as he was to discover X Files in the early nineties. This former deputy to investigate the threat posed by UFOs. When you were asked to do it, come up with a bit of a wry smile and say, boy, I was effectively headhunted I was broadly skeptical. I certainly went in there having no What Nick Pope found in those secret left him questioning for the first time The turning point It was this point midway where I came in one morning And gradually throughout the day, series of sightings on the night of 30th of March 1993. Across southern England, reports of strange lights They formed the outline of a massive black The most dramatic sighting around the Royal Multiple witnesses independently reported not just lights, but a clearly structured black triangular craft and then accelerated off to the horizon Now, the effect of this sighting in the newly released But even more interesting, Department Even to this day. Of all the accounts, by the on duty metrological officer He saw it initially and he said it's very slow speed, And then he heard this this low frequency was quite unpleasant, rather He said he could feel the sound He saw this narrow beam of light and from this very slow speed. The UFO accelerated away to the horizon and he described this to me as many times And this is a credible military witness. This is an Air Force officer And you it absolutely just there to turn a northern direction It was moving very, very slowly. The white light at the front. It was very erratic emitting, And it was as if it was searching And I stood there and watched it just move so slowly. And then all of a sudden, you know, it gone, poof. This is the first time about what he saw that night in 1993. He was an Air Force cadet. His description matches exactly by the RAAF met Officer Craft. It was defined against the sky. The sky was clear, the stars were right. This blocked out. The stars. It was. It was black, solid triangular noise. Myself nor my superiors at the Met have any conventional explanation To this day, it's completely unexplained. The British Ministry their American counterparts whether the US was doing any secret test That might explain the spate of weird UFO The answer they got back from They gave us absolutely cast iron assurances Let's say Why would E.T. fly billions of light years and park itself over a rest base Speculatively speaking, I guess their motives, it seems to me, But but crucially, you concede It's a forgive the politicians answer. I can't rule it out. But I guess in strictly logical terms, I can't convinced now that there was something to the sightings. Nick Pope launched activity over And what he found where the ministry Ocean for what had been seen in This is the assistant a UFO incident where an object Completely unknown. This was We couldn't explain. Alan Turner is long retired, but in 1971 Force radar unit that went on high alert moving at impossible speeds Turner ordered a bomber pilot He admitted that there was something which he and his navigator saw, So they don't know what it was. But on radar We didn't see anything visually, Would you have spoken out about what you saw that night Why not? Professional integrity. I was told not to talk about it. Colonel Charles Halt was also worried that revealing It certainly wasn't career enhancing. How am I ever going to explain this? Nobody will believe this. It was 1980 and Halt was the US deputy base commander at the Bent Waters He was a senior officer, almost certainly one rank shy of general with 20 years experience in the Air Force. The on duty flight Lieutenant. Security Police Squadron came in white What's back? He said The UFO is back. He said he saw something out We can't explain. The night before, And one of them said he'd even touched This time, He gathered a large number of soldiers They had radios, lights Took those things along I looked up and looked through the forest toward the coast I can best describe it as looking It's moving like this through the trees, You use the word there, You're under the clear impression Definitely Halt also took a small tape recorder to the station quite sure to head off a fresh face. Here it is. I see it to prove it. We all know she had a chainsaw Where else is coming this way? Crucially, this is an incident probably a total of 30 or 40 people, involved on the first night actually made Now, that would be a disciplinary offense Halt submitted his investigation with its explosive conclusion had been seen near one of America's His report was buried. Do you believe that the US government knows more than they're letting on? I suspect there's more than one agency more than what they're letting on. I've met Charles Halt and I. As far as I'm concerned, he's honest man, just because he feels Doesn't mean that there isn't any room for memory distortion or perceptual errors Professor at the University of London How do you explain eyewitness testimony Well, no matter how convincing the account he says the mind plays tricks. And the most powerful trick of all is that there is an overwhelming human desire I mean, to be perfectly honest, there is alien life out there, that we might learn from I looked up and saw this thing in the sky. People very often will be influenced and we have this very natural tendency to kind of fill in the gaps, There's no doubt in your mind it's It is real. I know what I saw. I know what we saw from where you've been sitting You haven't seen any evidence They're saying what they're saying There is no spaceship in a hangar There's not some great smoking gun This whole secret wide open. No, the bottom line is we don't have Take the Cosford incident. There is some evidence to suggest or object That's about as close Saying, Yeah, these things are real.