All right. So the project right now is I'm going So I just brought this screener in here and ran it for an hour or so to test it out. So I am screening the material that came out of this spot right here. It's kind of a mixture We got rocks as big as that, all the way down to dust, all those things into different piles So here's the smallest pile. This is like a half inch and down. Here's our biggest pile. That's everything that wouldn't I think I'm going to change that screen You can see And I kind of want But I'm going to change out that top Maybe a rock like that one. That could go over there. And then here's our we're going to call Here is our three quarter stone. Which is pieces about that So what I want to do because I want to make to try to get stuff that shouldn't so we're just going to run So let's get this moved out of the way That was mud there. Check this thing out. I should almost just mount Just look at this guy here has been Jeez, look at this stuff. A week later, maybe got rained on, but That hardened up like concrete. 39" 39" by 26" Look at the snake Garter snake right there. That's a good thing to have. These don't do anything annoying, and they do some nice stuff. See if this just starts That was not the right battery anyway rods like that with half the insulation missing, That's no good. If I'm going to weld something, I can't do it with garbage. Am I even going to weld with these? That one fits in this. Cody and Blue Get in Look at you jumping All right, Cody, lets see you do it Get in, Blue did it. You going to make me pick you up? Okay. All right. There was some sticker on this thing about welding. Yeah. Important, disconnect the radio receiver That's that guy right there. That it? I've always heard that about welding on autos I've never had an issue welding on any All right. So the reason we're covering a lot of material falls down through this. That's meant to go on a side conveyor. That's an option that I don't have. And, you know, some pretty thick rocks Especially flat ones. This is extra metal from my castle roof. So, you know, you have a strong building when the same metal can be part of your rock crusher. That looks good there actually. A lot of these are trash I'm going to get set up. to MIG weld up here soon That welded nice It's easy to weld stuff with a stick welder Okay. Dan is back, Just joined the scene, All kinds of stuff around here. Have to hold the key forever. To start this thing. All right. The plan is we want to set the screen up So we're making a little more room There we go. I'm trying to get this set up And I want to. I want to be able to dig from that side I like where the screener is. That works. This goes here That one is a lot lighter. It's like half the screen. That's the idea. That was making a pure 3/4 stone Its ok to have some 1 inch rock mixed in Not good to have rocks in places Allright, run it In Georgia. Right? Yeah. Just filled this up with fuel. That's the secondary filter. I mean, if there is water in it, that's not good. The primary filter. Hopefully Want gloves or anything? I dont mind diesel on my hands, the oil I hate. So should I mess with this It wasn't leaking. What do you think? I don't like fixing stuff that's not broken. Let's just make sure. Yeah, you can tell. Yeah. If it's leaking, we'll see it. Let's not throw any of that stuff away. I would like the factory filter, Yeah, All right. Next time. Yeah. It kept giving fuel pressure errors yesterday. Now its saying transducer not connected You know, it's. What's that? Transducer not detected. And the screen goes black. Really? That's a new one. Let me get a picture of that error. It's probably going to come up again. Yeah. They got so many electronics It runs To go holding that code that shut off. That Hit that. no. Let's just let it sit for a second and then, When it was running, it had 36V. That's much more than it should be. It should be around 27. So as a way to diagnose it. Let's unhook the alternator. I shut off the battery. That way. This isn't a live wire. so there is no chance of this shorting out on anything It's a good way to have a. It's a good way Look at the voltage, 25 These were all green before The system is still red. But nothing's blinking here. That's good. I think that was it. Phone: So you can order it online. Okay. Phone: Thats where we get them I was overcharging. Overcharging? Yeah, that's why the computer was upset. This is probably what ruined it here Look at this thing. With these The new one is ordered. I gotta say I just got these walkie talkies. I'll put a link in the description What a difference this makes. Because you can just. I've tried You couldn't talk to each other. I couldn't hear anything. Always saying "What", Had to stop the machines to even hear These ones you wear as hearing protection and you can just talk, like normally, not You can easily understand each other. They are full duplex so I got a set of four of them here. They're a little expensive, I should have bought them years ago. You know, It's such a difference. It makes. We're at 17.6, but it tends to creep up 17.9. Yeah, this truck's got a scale in it, That kind of helps justify, buying some of this stuff like that. We'll do one more. Then let's go spread it. Yeah. Oh, it's gonna spread out nice on that hill. What kept happening on In this rock It looks nice and rolled here on the edge, but it would get, like, pulled up, and then they kind of like hop I'll put this finer gravel on it, I don't think it's too dirty, you know, once But if it is, I'll top it with the medium sized pile. Right. Right there, right there. There is a bump That looks a lot smoother. Oh, look at that. You could skateboard on this. We'll see how that holds up. I think that's going to work. I might top it if this ever gets slick, but there's a decent amount of stone in it, so maybe once it gets rained on. It's the same. I hope it doesn't need these. Its troubling that it has these. The other one didn't. All right. Done. Is this about 27? All right. It was 36 before. All right, I guess that's fixed I can never figure this thing out. Why isn't that belt running? All right. Ok, everything up All right. Well, I ran it until, Let's It should turn on. I mean, this is all today by myself. In two hours. Not even. I always pick this stuff up as soon as I see it. And that's mostly today too. How's that pile? Looks good. If there is a couple rocks in that, its ok. Yeah, looks good Yeah. Maybe sprinkle some 3/4 on top. Yeah. It looks correct. What are you doing? A mouse in there? There a mouse in the brakes? That is usually what that means Bark, Bark let me in here. That's fixed. I am noticing This truck has delivered 4 million gallons Actually almost 5 million. Just putting more fine That'll be a nice base, Yeah. Look at that. That looks nice. Someone was And, I would try that. I have good luck with grass seed. I haven't had any luck. Wildflowers. I planted a lot of wildflowers here. I'm not seeing any. There's some going at my dad's house All right. I just finished Cody. What do you think, buddy? How's that gravel look? Look good? All right, so I'm pretty impressed I mean, that was like, you know, dealing with figuring some stuff that was probably four good days to do And I used to buy And this you'd call which kind of gravel with everything The small stuff. And in the middle we got our biggest pile is as small as my jaw a lot of quarries they don't even have rocks that big. So this is like a clean I have a use for that. So I'm excited to have this large pile. Then over here we got our medium You know, that's like a three quarter So like the gravel quarry I used to go to, they'd call that twos and threes. But look how much is here Cody. What do we got? Cody? How many yards of stone you think we made? look at this pile. There's a lot here. I rented that screener, I mean, there's a lot of material here. And the ability and not even have to handle these piles I mean, look at the nice piles that left. So I think I need to keep this thing. All right. Well, we're all done here. I have plans for all these piles. All right,