(cup taps) - Mornin'. (grunt) - What does the day bring us? (John sighs) - No telling, Rip, but I know. (sigh) I know this is the best it'll be. - Well, I guess it's all - Let's go to work. (sniff) - Yes, sir. (hooves clopping) (sigh) - Whoa, whoa! Hey! Go! - Jimmy, get your shit together. - I fell in the river - Why was he near a river? (Kayce breathes heavily) Come on, buddy. (clicks tongue) (hooves clopping) - Had to get rid of a wrangler today. - Yeah? Which one? - Fred. - What'd he do? - Yeah, he worked over Jimmy. - Well, good riddance, I - Yeah, that and a loud mouth too. You know I could drop but he's been here a while. He's seen a lot. Train station's where I'd leave him. - Well you run the bunkhouse, Rip. Do what's best for the ranch. Replace him with someone - You got a cowboy in mind? - Do it like my daddy did it. Get somebody from the prison. - All right. Just anyone? - Brand isn't something you earn, it's something you live up to. You think you deserved Look at you now. - Boy okay? - Boy's fine. - You okay? (John sighs) - I almost lost him. - Hm. (John sniffs) - Well, it's hard to measure almost. 'Cause almost doesn't matter. - (chuckles) Well, isn't that wise? Who told you that? - You did, sir. - Right. - I'll have your supper waitin'. (horse trotting) (loud swooshing) (shovel scrapes) (horse nickers) - You got people for that, sir. (breathing heavily) - Yeah. I don't mind doin' it. It's a task I can complete and God knows I have precious few of those. There's a lot to fix here, Rip. - You talkin' about subpoenas? - Those are smokes screens who's hidin' behind 'em. - You want me to look around? - Yeah. Want you to start with Jenkins. - How much time you got left? - I don't know. (horse snorts) - What'd the doctor say? - No, I'm done with doctors. - Okay. Well I'm sorry to hear that, sir. - John. (melancholy music) - I'm sorry, John. (tack jangling) (shovel thuds) - Yeah, I'm sorry. (scoffs softly) I'm sorry too. (loud swooshing) - One thing I'll say about Jamie. His melon head comes Hey. Can it wait? - No, it can't wait. Sir. - Give us a minute, Beth. (shoes tapping) You oughta listen to this. They're building a casino with a housing development around it right up against your fence. (throat clearing) (floorboards squeak) - Rainwater and Jenkins When I'm gone, they will Rainwater will annex that I don't have a child I'm runnin' out of time, Man, my children aren't - What do you wanna do? - Well, these problems have - Well, how far away - When they go away they never come back. Ever. (loud swooshing) (door latch clicks) - You wanted to see me, sir? (door latch clicks) - Yeah, have have a seat. (boots stepping) (leather rustles) In a lot of ways you're the only person I can trust, Rip. Cuz you're the only person when I'm gone. You do it for me. - Yes, sir. And I always will. - I hope so, because because what I'm asking next, it'll be the hardest. (suspenseful music) Kayce needs to learn Needs to learn how to lead these men and he can't do that while You understand what I'm askin'? (suspenseful music intensifies) (footsteps) (door closes) (loud swooshing) Didn't think that one was broke, Jake. - My God, after a day like today, he is. - Yeah, I see that. (horse snorts &amp; neighs) (John chuckles) - That's how we used to do it. - Yeah. Well, never should've stopped. - Hmm. Yes, sir. I wanted to thank you. Now I just haven't had, been the right time. - No need. You deserve that house, Rip. - No sir, I'm, I'm talking about the letter. (thoughtful music) Nobody's ever given me (clears throat) You know, is if we're we oughta to get some We're gonna run outta hands - You know what happened - She's a drifter. Drifter's drift, you know how it is. - Yeah, probably for the best, you know. Girl in the bunkhouse is just a disaster waitin' to happen. - And she actually, she kept the bunkhouse pretty honest. - That a fact? - Yes, sir. - I'll leave it to you. You run the bunkhouse. (sorrowful music) - Sir, does Kayce know that? - It's Kayce's idea. - Hmm. I'll let you know what - Well, you do that. (loud swooshing) Fellas, thanks for helping out. (upbeat music) - How do you plan on doin' this? - Rip, have you figured out how to do this without all us gettin' trampled? - Best we came up with, sir, is like, fuck it, you know. Let's get up there as fast as we can and just chase them sons - Fuck it. That's your plan too? Fuck it? - It's gonna be a shit May as well do it fast. Less time for things to go wrong. - Your logic is so flawed son, it, Hell, it almost makes sense. (chuckles) - Great. - A'ight. Fuck it. (intense music) (loud swooshing) - He priced right? (sigh) - Yeah. Right enough. - Well, you sure you wanna - It's been a while since we've done it. Rest of the world's forgettin' we're here. Time to remind 'em. I thought I had told ya to run that sorrel over to Steiner's. - No, no, no, I did. They didn't like 'im. He didn't buck hard enough for 'em. - Didn't buck hard 'nuff? - Hmm-mm. - (chuckles) He bucked hard enough for me. (sniff) - Well, what do you wanna do? Do you wanna put him through a sale? (horse nickers) - No. He'll end up in the slaughter house. Can't have him killed just because he doesn't wanna be ridden. (sniff) - Hmm. - Hell, I don't wanna be ridden either. (sniff) - All right, well, I'll figure it out. - That's it. - Hmm? - Anything else ya feel like discussin'? (sigh) If you're joinin' the family can you please be the one person in it who fuckin' talks to me? - I love her, sir. And I'll always take care of her. - That's why I said yes. - You know why people don't come and talk to you? (poignant music) Cause they're scared they're gonna let you down. I know I am. - Well, if you're marrying Beth you're not scared of anything. - (laughs) Yeah. - That horse needs a home. Just ain't mine. Go find him one. - Yes, sir. (loud swooshing) (suspenseful music) (caws) (metal clinks) (caws) (caws) (caws) (caws) (tires crunching) (loud pulsing music beats) - Come on! (phone rings) - Rip, get everyone back to the ranch. Somebody's - Your dad's been shot. - Where?! - Every fuckin' where, Kayce. Listen, I want you to look headed northbound - How bad is he? - I mean, I'm an hour from the hospital. He ain't got a fuckin' hour, Kayce. - Fuck! Send me your location, I'll send a care flight. - Uhm, let's do Hemmett's pasture on 89. You tell the chopper You got me? (helicopter blades whirring) - [Radio voice] (indistinct) We are approaching Hemmett's Pasture. - I know, I see ya. I'm Don't die on me. John, don't ya die on me, now. Not like this! You hear me!? Fuck! (helicopter blades whipping) (tires screeching) (engine revving) (wood cracking) (dirt clattering) (engine revving) (helicopter blades whipping) (door slams) (helicopter blades whipping) (melancholy music) (door slams) (quiet swooshing) (phone rings) - This should be good. Yeah. - We need to meet. - About what I wonder? - Is there a time that works? - You know where the ranch is. Come by whenever. - I prefer a neutral site. - (chuckles) The ranch is a neutral site. - Not for me. - Yeah, and whose fault is that? You know where to find me. (beep) After we drop these bulls we're gonna meet the sheriff in town. - Okay. - You know you're the only one in my life to not ask me why when I - I figured you'd tell me or I'll figure it out when we get there. - I'm not callin' you out for it, Rip. Thankin' you for it. (thoughtful music) (sniff)