This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream. Get access to my streaming video service, Nebula, when you sign up for CuriosityStream The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy tells to be called a man. But that seems like a lot of work for a rather The National Space Society tells us there to become an interplanetary species! Becoming an interplanetary species, and eventually is going to happen overnight. Indeed, even discussing it isn't going to more than one, starting today with our opening It is important to realize though that this Even if we get cheap space travel tomorrow fraction of our population lives off Earth. I thought today we'd look at some of the along the way and what it might look like We'll be borrowing a fair amount from the Stars, the most recent edition of which I've The Roadmap has 31 Milestones and is a concise this topic I'd encourage you to explore. Today we'll be looking at the first 12 Milestones. We'll also be referencing many of our prior and Outward Bound series, which have tended getting into orbit or how we'd colonize You can see those episodes for specifics and screen as we go. As something of a side note, as usual I'm air, and in this case at the end of May when at the International Space Development Conference the NSS, which had to be postponed for the historic launch from SpaceX, the first private So, it seemed a doubly appropriate time to If anything could be said to have dogged space it is the seeming halt to it and the absence We had the Space Race and the Apollo Missions the moon 6 times, then 50 years of no one There are a lot of folks who think it never mock them for that because the most obvious do it 6 times 50 years ago, why haven't And why hasn't anyone else?" The rebuttal to that is basically that now be worth the cost and risk. Which for a lot of folks amounts to saying For that not to be true, we need to be able and profitable way and that requires a lot Same the Space Shuttle era came to an end it was originally expected to be or was worth, has been running for a couple decades now, and no countries frantically waving their Many like the idea of humanity somehow doing exploring space for the advancement of science But on the Earth, in the here and now, a good to make space profitable, so private companies Eventually, hopefully, space will be the domain businesses and mom-and-pop operations. You're not an interplanetary species until and that's why SpaceX tends to be so popular pushed orbital launch costs down quite a lot, made a big step toward their Milestone 4, Companies. Milestones 1-4 might be considered our baby costs, having continuous occupancy of low-earth in-space private commerce. Those are continuous goals though, your first and expanding. That first milestone, cheaper launches, is address it, and we looked at some more grandiose from Reusable Rockets to Space Elevators, Loops, and more. Some, like reusable rockets, are approaches others, like the space elevator, rely on our able to handle the huge material stresses But space elevators could work today with gravity, like the moon or smallest planets. So too, devices like Mass Drivers might be low-gravity, low-or-no-atmosphere places like Still other approaches like the Orbital Ring, and offering some technical challenges, mostly are hard to make but because they are major we have vastly more space traffic. It's like building a railroad across a continent, already gotten very developed, prior to that and self-contained. It's your freight train to orbit, not your to see until we had that major demand. Such things are not our focus for today, as These earlier milestones are mostly focused space and the basic appeal to people and businesses But they're all focused on Low Earth Orbit, not the few hundred thousand to the Moon or or most other planets, let alone the many stars. One could argue these aren't even in space. That the various low-Earth satellites and atmosphere, where the air thins out just enough hundred orbits. We would put almost all those low-earth objects surprised if we eventually did. Many of our scenarios for much cheaper orbital need to be refueled to maintain orbit by taking as a power supply for shooting that propellant Fundamentally Low Orbit is not about getting atmosphere and the air drag cost to staying Getting stations higher up is another milestone. But we use low orbit as a testing ground because How well people do in low-gravity is one of health effects of low-gravity are because only for a few days on the Moon. It might be that humans can live perfectly maybe Mars. Until we check that we don't know and the space. If the answer is no, that we can't live then we'll probably never terraform those term workers in outposts, with everything in rotating space habitats, and indeed probably robots. Alternatively we might be able to genetically those conditions anyway, though we might have discuss humanity's future as an interplanetary So one of our big things to test out in low space stations with equivalent gravity to The other thing to be worked out is sustainability. It is expensive to bring food and air and it and not lose much in the process. If the launch costs were cheap enough, we On the other hand, if launch costs remain that issue by launching just a handful of resources. They build more of themselves and other manufacturing controlled from Earth - and we only bring prohibitive we could always grow our presence by having kids as opposed to mass immigration. That's likely to be the approach we'd of whether we get cheap interplanetary travel One of the more attractive-looking options is Asteroid Mining for precious metals. That often tends to conjure a Wild West image lonely through the rocks in the Belt, avoiding Right now, we've no clear system for permitting some asteroid - to actually mine it and Right now, nobody has a way to stake a claim a domed farm or mining and refining operation Without those, without some way of ensuring is going to want to develop in space. But that raises the question of who is offering Who rules space? Two of the more obvious options are a united more sovereign - or no Earth rule at all, with its own sovereign government. It tends to strike me as more likely that appearing in space in three cases: First, they rivaled terrestrial nations. Second, that they were so far away that being practical, like interstellar colonies or anything would take months or years. And third, where some more powerful nation often in history where some nation wanted of some place they controlled or didn't a territorial claim on some place but felt and friendly state. This last route seems the most likely to produce Some outposts of tens of thousands currently entity have started resenting their administration it be free to run its own affairs. I suspect you would first see them obtaining In the US for instance we have the federal territories, and beneath that more sub-divisions and so on. A colony of ten thousand people is not going because it just lacks the capacity to support While big organizations can often be rather big advantages to their members. It's hard to have due process and an appeals where there's probably only a dozen lawyers, in wide ranges of specialties, and so on. You could farm that out to others, like sign your high crimes and appeals or send your big gun for diplomatic and military intervention country for all these functions, and we'll Types of Government. In the short term, you need legal and political you probably need some sort of land grants folks to head out there, Milestone 8. Once they are there, to be safer, to feel improve your technologies for self-sufficiency, This doesn't have to be total self-sufficiency need that and even they could be relying on tech updates and so on. However, they do need to be self-sufficient If a colony on this asteroid doesn't grow something to trade for it and at a rate sufficient There's always a cost to trade so ideally on food, air, water, and energy, the four running. Those are your big jugular weaknesses, and a lot different for a space hotel in low orbit in a Kuiper Belt Object far from the Sun. Fundamentally the same concept though, you than or equal to your exports, and reliably what you need to import, and often maximizing produce locally. That's a pretty big aspect of Milestone Earth. If you're not stable, if you are essentially But more importantly we're not even talking animals will fare in terms of being born in artificial ecosystems. Some will likely handle it better than others ecosystems of very large and diverse natures. During this early phase we can be sending Belt to find precious metals, or set up this or water production. But anything truly grand up in space requires closed ecosystems up there, and how humans both physiologically and psychologically. Not just as adults, not just trained astronauts you raise a kid there. How you keep them educated, fed, comforted, safe. Milestone 11 is developing reliable defenses There are some nearer-term related concerns For instance, our atmosphere protects Earth and ships will need their own protection from And whatever technologies we use to adjust also be used maliciously to send them to Earth With unpredictable humans as part of the landscape, more closely. As we start in-space fabrication of larger concern, more things to be hit, more things things potentially losing parts or trash in More places for rogue or malicious elements But if we can conquer all of these issues, be long short of becoming an interplanetary have hatched, and we can look onward to the fraction of the human population begin moving that more in the next episode. So what does a civilization at this point At this stage we're probably not at the as flying to another continent, or even necessarily accommodations on a luxury ocean cruise ship, and folks traveling there who were not either We would be expecting thousands of people every week, and many for recreation or for science. We would be seeing some legal framework being to stake claims to territory off Earth or space around Earth they leased. And we would be seeing more and more of the and food - not to mention gravity - being waste, with an eye toward long term sustainability We would be seeing the groundwork in place meteors, and artificial space debris getting apparatus for tending to that. We would be seeing the beginning of orbital build what we need for space in space. That's the future we're reaching for in species, and it's a place we could reach I believe most of us will live to see. The beginning of a bright and bold future Throughout today's episode we looked at some of those milestones are ones we've not done in spite of many requests for it and is out now on Nebula, where we'll discuss and what technologies and approaches are on Nebula, our subscription streaming service, creators to try out new content that might might not be too kind to some topics or demonetize our usual content. And if you'd like to get free access to to Curiositystream, which also has thousands top of the Nebula-exclusive content from myself, with Aliens, and many other excellent works and Real Science. If you're a curious person, Curiositystream gets you access to thousands of documentaries, for as long as you're a subscriber, and use Last week we looked at some truly enormous as an alternative to settling new planets go about acquiring the vast amounts of raw of those continent sized habitats, and ask to provide them. After that we'll be back to the Fermi Paradox cosmic voids, to consider if such things are dismantling their own solar systems or even If you want alerts when those and other episodes and if you'd like to help support future or our website, IsaacArthur.net, which are with all of our various social media forums about the concepts in the episodes and many Until next time, thanks for watching, and have a great week!