Reviewer: Peter van de Ven I'm going to take you back to the city of Medina, Saudi Arabia. To a time when Prophet Mouhammed of finding a solution to women in the city The situation was this: It was around the year 600 AD, long before the modern convenience, of plumbing. When a woman awoke with the urge to relieve herself, she would have to walk out, past the outskirts of the city, for privacy. Believe it or not, a group of men actually began in women's nightly tracks, and started to linger their identities hidden If a woman walked by, and she happened to be wearing a jilbab, which was a garment like a coat, the men knew to leave her alone. A jilbab of centuries ago like a Burberry trench or a Chanel jacket. It announced that the woman was free, and a free woman She would have no problems and identifying him. But if the woman walking out at night if she happened to be dressed then the men knew she was a slave, and they attacked her. Concerned members of the community and like so many other social, that Muhammed faced he turned this particular and a verse was revealed for the Quran, the Muslim holy book. &quot;O Prophet,&quot; it reads, &quot;tell your wives, your daughters, to draw upon themselves their garments. This is better, so that they Basically, the verse advises so that they can't be zeroed in on, and attacked. Now, on the surface, this may seem like a relatively but turns out it wasn't. The early Muslim community was tribal, and the idea that a slave that was almost insulting. And then there was How would a slave do her work? How would she function, How would she cook, clean, fetch water? In the end, the early that a woman's way of dress a woman's function in society - her role, what we might consider her job - and the society's specific customs. Or, in another way: when in Rome. Muslims like to take historical rulings So, let's do that. A woman's way of dress So, what does that mean for for someone like me? First, it means that I have a function, that I can make. Second, it means that while I'm making that contribution, and living in a society and where, in fact, if I veil then wearing what is the custom, such as a dress, a pair of jeans is not only acceptable, it's recommended. But wait, could that be right? After all, haven't we all come to assume that a Muslim woman must veil, that veiling is There is even a term that we've all come to associate an Arabic term whether or not we've been aware of it: &quot;Hijab.&quot; So, maybe I missed it. Maybe the requirement that a woman veil For those of you who don't know, each chapter is written out There are more Out of the 6,000 plus verses, three refer to how a woman should dress. The first is the verse The second is a verse that directly asking that they begin to dress because of their role, And the third verse in that it was revealed in direct response Early records show that the custom, the fashion during the pre-Islamic era, was for women to wear a scarf which would be tucked behind the ears In the front, a woman wore which she left open exposing her breasts - sort of like the images (Laughter) When Islam spread through a verse was sent down asking or any other garment, to cover the breasts. And that's it. That's basically all there is in the Quran Turns out, God doesn't give a bullet point that he wants hidden from view. And in fact, it might be argued, I cannot stress enough that it is argued that the reason these verses is so that a woman could choose according to her specific culture and the progression of time. And that the term &quot;hijab,&quot; guess what? It's not in any of these three verses. In fact, it's nowhere in the Quran, That's not to say that the word because it does appear. But when it appears, to mean a barrier or a divide. Such as the barrier or divide that exists or between believers and non-believers. Or it means a barrier, that men during Muhammad's time when speaking to his wives. Or it means the seclusion, when she was giving birth to Jesus. That separation and seclusion, that means hijab; that physical screen, that means hijab; that barrier, that divide, that means hijab. Hijab doesn't mean a woman's veil. And yet, isn't it strange being screened off, divided away, these are the very terms when we think of a Muslim woman? Why shouldn't they? We have all seen the way some Muslim women if she attempts to go to school, she's shot in the head; if she attempts to drive a car, she's jailed; if she attempts to take part in the political uprisings to be heard, to be counted, she is publicly assaulted. Forget about hiding out in the dark some men now feel comfortable enough for the world to see. And they don't care they're more interested They're too busy making videos bragging about what they've done. Why don't they care They don't feel like It's the women It's the women who got ideas that actually led them into society, believing that they and we all know, honorable women, they stay at home; honorable women stay invisible. Just as it was the custom during the Prophet's time. Is that true? 1400 years ago is long before feminism. Were women locked away Well, it turns out was what we would define today as a CEO. She was a successful merchant whose caravan equaled the caravans She essentially headed up When she hired Muhammed to work for her, she was so taken with his honesty that eventually she proposed. (Laughter) I'm not sure how many women proposing marriage to a man today. And Muhammad's second wife? She was no slacker either. She rode into battle which is equivalent to a woman inside of a Humvee or a tank. And what of the other women? Early records show that women in the Islamic revolution One woman became famous as a general when she led her army of men Men and women freely associated It was custom for a woman And when things didn't work out, to initiate divorce. Women even loudly debated Seems to me that if fundamentalists want to return it might be a huge step forward. (Laughter) Progress. (Applause) But we still have to answer If not from Islamic history, how is it that we, in the modern era, have come to associate With being separated out from society, secluded and isolated, barred from the most basic human rights? I hope it's not any surprise to you For the past few decades, the very people of reading and interpreting the Quran in a variety of different certain clerics have been into those three verses concerning women. For instance that verse &quot;O Prophet, tell your wives, and the women of the believers this is better, so that they Some clerics, not all, some clerics have added a few words to that, so that in certain that verse reads like this: &quot;O Prophet, tell your wives, and the women of the believers, parentheses, a garment is a veil that covers the entire head and the face, the neck and the breast and all the way to the wrists. Everything on a woman's body because she must see where she is headed, and the hands must be covered in gloves. Because, of course, there was certainly a lot of gloves (Laughter) Etc., etc., etc., etc., end of parentheses, so that she not be known and molested.&quot; And what these so-called clerics have concluded based is that a woman only has one function. To understand what that function is, all you have to do is read that these so-called clerics Let me give you a sampling. A woman need only finish elementary school before she gets married. Which puts her, what, A woman cannot fulfill until she first fulfills If he desires her while she sits she should submit. Islam has forbidden a woman because bras lift up and this is calculated deception. My personal favorite: if a man has an ulcer excreting puss, from the top of his head and she licked it for him, she would still not fulfill What these and the many other rulings is this: The best of women, is uneducated, and so powerless, not very different from a slave. So, she remains at home (Laughter) Ready and available at all times even if it's to lick his entire body; satisfying him whenever he calls, whether it's in his bed Does this sound like God's will to you? Does this sound like scripture? Or does this sound strangely, like the worst kind of misogynist fantasy? Are these so-called clerics, and the fundamentalists truly purifying Islam from within, bringing it back to its intended form? Or are these men standing out in the dark eager to prey upon a woman? Thank you. (Applause)