- Welcome back, y'all! My next guest is a fashion designer whose custom-made the sports world. You've definitely seen her Check it out. Yeah, that's me! Hey, I didn't even know I had no idea that we I thought we were showing everybody else. I did get in on the action. She made this gorgeous puffer for me for this year's Super Bowl. Please welcome Kristin (audience applauds) Welcome to the show! - I love that, like, the this could not be a more but I had found out that opened in Vegas. And I'm Texan. - Well, do you know I sprinted I was like, &quot;Kelly wants a vest, what?&quot; So, I'm in my hotel room, 'cause I had the worst blisters that week. I just am not cut out for the heel life. So, I'm wearing the slippers, and I sprinted to you - To meet me a Whataburger. She was like, &quot;Hey, where should we meet?&quot; And my manager was like, - Well, it was close to I was probably huffing - You were running around, you know why? 'Cause you've blown up, man. Like, when did this all start? You started sewing, I guess Was like, the first costume that you did? - So, I grew up knitting with my grandma, but it was just something we And then one Halloween came around and I think we were having and I was looking for what I wanted to be. And we really wanted to that like, full denim getup from the VMAs? - Yeah, yeah. Canadian Tuxedo. - Exactly. I looked for it online and And I was like, &quot;I feel Oh, that's them. - [Kelly] At no point would &quot;I could make this.&quot; - [Kristin] Yeah, I don't - [Kelly] Well, you killed it. - [Kristin] I had blonde hair. - [Kelly] Like, somehow That's amazing. - So I got a bunch of jeans And then I'm like, &quot;Wow, I Where did this come from? I don't know.&quot; And then I put it away and I And then I was like, &quot;I from Black Mirror.&quot; I'm a big Miley Cyrus fan. - So, I made that too. And then I put the sewing machine away again for another year. It just kind of came out on Halloween. And then one season... Kyle's been so fortunate, he's had such a long career in the NFL. And about like halfway through his career, I just got so sick of wearing I had like three T-shirts on rotation. - Yeah. - So I took a box of his, and it was like a juice box. We had a bunch of extra T-shirts. So I actually made a pair of sweatpants. I went on YouTube, and I'm like, &quot;How do you make sweatpants?&quot; And that's how I started. And I just have learned And the way this whole I was like, &quot;Why is there not silhouettes that you wanna wear in your everyday life? Or if you wanna go out, why don't they have that in sportswear?&quot; - And they're missing out. That's a bunch of money to be made. - Yeah, I mean, that's what - Girl, I was like, &quot;Yeah, to be made there.&quot; It blew up though, when 'Cause I know Britney... - [Kelly] She was here, she wore one and she got Taylor to wear It went everywhere. - [Kristin] Oh my gosh, it went crazy. - Yeah. - Well, I've been at this for so long and I think this year I kind I was like, &quot;You know It's just not getting the And so, this year I told to make some stuff for other people. And I never thought I'd be that I ended up dressing. But I have to give a shout because he was the first person And we like to say Deebo and then Taylor made it explode, but... - Well, and speaking of your husband, so whenever Taylor did who was like, fact-checking And saying, &quot;No, that's my wife. My wife did it.&quot; Which I love, that's so sexy. That's so cool. - Agreed. - And we actually, we gonna be here today, so I'm So, Kristin's husband is here. Give it up for eight for the San Francisco First of all, look, I'm a Cowboys fan, but I enjoyed watching you play the game. You were so good. - I appreciate it. - And my manager doesn't but like, she's freaking out. She like, has everything 49ers, she's been a 49ers fan But she would not come out here, she didn't wanna be a tool in But I gotta say, it's that you did, like, &quot;Oh, where did this come from?&quot; And it could've gotten And you, right, you were online kind of... - Hundred percent, I had I just want everyone to 'Cause I've always known But the biggest thing was to everyone else so that So, I was just doing everything I could. - It's so cool, man. Like, the designs are so cool, and they're unlike everybody Like, even when you go, you know, you go to those places like, and they have all those you can like pay whatever to get into. The stuff is cool. But like, your stuff is so much cooler. - [Kristin] Thank you. - I appreciate that. - So you got licensing, right? - [Kristin] I did, yeah. - That's amazing. - I know, and you know, I've been at this for so long. Somebody told me a quote &quot;Success is defined by preparation with a little bit of luck.&quot; And I felt like I had such a lucky year. I mean, just even like Taylor She didn't have to wear that. She could have anybody make her a jacket. And to wear something I just felt so honored. But like, I'm really I've been making you a Cowboys jacket. - What? - [Kristin] And I didn't - I will cry right now! - I'm devastated because I and give it to you, but... - I will meet you at any Whataburger you ever wanna go to for this. What's your... What do Where do you wanna meet? I - I'm a McDonald's girl. - Okay, fine, my son will come with me. It's his favorite restaurant. Okay, I'm very excited. Well, thank you so much