"Can you imagine catching your husband Is the "other woman" the villain misrepresented protagonist For hundreds of years, of fear and hatred for She's a threat to the who must be stopped, "If you ever come near my family the whore to the wife's Madonna, methods of seduction that can tempt away from the marital bed, "A woman never steals another woman's They usually go willingly." "Sounds like you have always wanting something "I just wanted more than often motivated to "steal" or connections rather than "So take my advice. Puzzlingly, it often seems like who can strip a man of his agency he's in control. So is this really a legitimate way In more recent depictions, from the other woman has been humanized, these questions of who's entitled to the other can really get. Yet the Other Woman remains "You expect me to stand here next to about f[BLEEP]ing my ex-boyfriend!" Here's our take on The Other Woman another girl looking for someone to We're so excited because The Takeaway on the Prime Video and it's all about The Wilds. The Wilds Season 2 is out on May 6. We are getting ready by digging into unanswered questions of Season 1. "Once upon a time, We thought it was just the girls but now, it turns out there was the same thing. The Twilight of Adam? It's gonna get really interesting the guys in this situation. "Don't scream." Season 1 of The Wilds left us with so Where is Nora? What side is Dot on? What's going on with Shelby? Is Martha alive? And what's gonna happen "The boys were the perfect This just gets crazier and crazier. Just when you thought you were something came in to uproot You think that the big mystery was there are more mysteries. So be sure to check out The Takeaway let us know your thoughts and Season 2 of The Wilds on May 6. "I was wondering, why is it are always married?" "Well, maybe that's why the fact you can't have them." Throughout history, mistresses have "If he were not mewling in bed he would be chasing down Pompey." Royalty, aristocracy, and politicians to keep them. Many historic royal mistresses, such as are more famous today than The mistress as a status symbol has a 1980s study showed that the more likely he was over 70% of men who earned above Examples of women who cheat in the recent remake of Scenes from a Marriage and the wealthy, high-powered women marriage. "I fell in love with someone. He's the CEO of an Israeli startup Historically, though, the has mostly focused on men "How long have you been married?" "Nine years." And despite the fact that it's the the Other Woman is often portrayed because while the husband is the it's as if the Other Woman is breaking "Ex-boyfriends are just That's just, like, On top of that, she's portrayed as a marriage--and what husband isn't In the original version of The Women, Joan Crawford as Crystal Allen-- things just to get at a man's money, "You've got everything that matters. You've got the name, the position, "My husband's love happens to mean "Oh, can the sob stuff, Mrs. Haines." This gold-digging aspect often seems of the Other Woman, although a silent film A Fool There Was, whose sole desire is to ruin but just for the fun of it. The Mafia's relationship with explored in iconic movies and shows The Sopranos. "Stay the f[BLEEP] away You call, or go anywhere near scraping your nipples off these This is a strong, almost systemic dichotomy of the wife and the to keep the domestic and sexual But it never seems to end very well who always want more. "Well, what do you think, "Just calm down." "No, you think you're just and f[BLEEP] me?" And despite it being acknowledged it understandably devastates the wives. "You have made a fool of me Traditionally, though, the Mafia mistress In Italian culture, the wife is she's the Madonna incarnate-- criminal activity with their wives The comare is not just a beautiful is highly prized--but she can also be a Giovanni Fiandaca, the author of Female Roles in Organized Crime sometimes even used as safe houses And these arrangements definitely When Carmela falls in love with life and death--despite Tony's constant Furio for getting together with Carmela. "Yet, you are modern enough to use and every other f[BLEEP]ing place "Oh, that's right. Certain people see him, So the other man doesn't always he can be imperiled, like Furio, Bridget's mom leaves her dad for "Between you and me, I'm not entirely Still, the other man is a rarer character huge presence in film noir and In these explorations, it's always are punished for being harlots. Maybe the ultimate example of this kind Fatal Attraction-- "You're trying to move him keeping him away from me. And you're playing 'happy family.'" In the film's finale, there's a moment of Beth, shoots Alex to death. This wasn't the original ending-- kill herself and frame Dan However, test audiences didn't respond Glenn Close, the actress who played Alex, film-noir worthy, but the audience they needed Beth to get her revenge. "The audience wanted to believe that so they got their catharsis Victory for the wife is a key tenet of an example of "good defeating evil." But why is the Other Woman One theory is that the Other Woman One real-life example was the ot together with Brad Pitt--who was Jennifer, most famous for her role as as a down-to-earth, girl-next-door type, realization of "America's sweethearts." "People were obsessed about the-the divorce. I think it's because you guys on the wedding cake." Meanwhile, Angelina was painted sexual pursuits such as knife play her ex-husband's blood. It was like Brad was cheating on us, that we all had was discarded perceived to be darker Likewise, Marilyn Monroe's while he was married to Jackie vamp versus virgin narrative. Marilyn was widely recognized while Jackie was portrayed by In Mad Men, the team tasked with puts forward the idea that a Marilyn or a Jackie. "Jackie Kennedy and Marilyn Monroe. The reality, however, Rather than proving this binary, than anyone cared to admit, respect for, or at least interest in, There are film and TV examples the perfect couple by that irritating Derek and Meredith's relationship Grey's Anatomy and in Friends--these "other women" still disliked by audiences of something viewers crave. "And if he's with Rose, Or when the wife or girlfriend who we get very villainized "other women" "I wanted to see what this girl you seem despite the occasional pre-orgasmic has that is so unleavable." Often, the Other Woman isn't just worthless. In The Great Gatsby, Tom's mistress, runs her over in a car, and Tom isn't in covering it up. "You have nothing to worry about. Let me take care of things, Likewise, mob shows and movies objectified, dehumanized, and They might be murdered--as The Many Saints of Newark, or or they might threaten, or commit, Tony's girlfriends, Irina and Gloria. "If you go, I'll kill myself." "Gloria Trillo, she gave me You know what Jerry told me She died." But starting in the 2000s and 2010s, portrayals that humanized the movies called The Other Woman, Enchanted, The Other Boleyn Girl, Even Gloria Trillo in The Sopranos "Why the f[BLEEP] didn't you help her?" "Sometimes, you can't." "She was a good kid." One of the main purposes of this the cheating man, who is the in his relationship. These movies are successful because comeuppance for this sort of behavior "That's my money! No!" and the truth is that the and lonely. She's probably suffering and really needs people who In the Sex and the City love triangle Carrie is an example of the sympathize with because "You're the other woman!" "I am not the other woman. I'm not. I mean...I know I am, She was also the girlfriend his wife, Natasha--a fact that cheating frequently does involve in people's minds as to who first Viewers have spent seasons getting so when prim, perfect-seeming Natasha In the sequel series And Just Like That..., she never was initially--we get a chance also she acknowledges that, because the she felt like the Other Woman. "I'll never understand why he ever in love with you." Meanwhile, in Scandal, the writers go actively root against the wife because we "I love you." "Your wife is ten feet away." "I love you." The identification with the Other Woman Ariana Grande's 2019 song, though the video playfully suggests the girlfriend (or, because the girlfriend on self-love). Sometimes, movies from the 2000s Other Woman without even articulating In Bridget Jones's Diary, we never he's seeing Natasha, but his family are are going to get married. "To Mark and his Natasha!" So, if we break it down, in this instance, the Other Woman--but we barely notice she and Mark are predestined. Plus, Natasha is haughty and unpleasant, her man to down-to-earth, normal Bridget. "You like me just the way I am." Actually, there's a real-life reason why clear-cut Other Woman. In life, often, the category that one person is the &quot;primary&quot; partner There's an example of this in when Tyrion marries Sansa, with Shae. And sometimes, the Other Woman Other Woman until unfortunate together--which is the case "He's married?" "Yeah-huh." "Are you sure?" This also kind of happens to Bridget American woman, Lara, who seems to be his fiance, and it's unclear which or primary one in Daniel's life. "You haven't only just met her." "No. No, I got to know her pretty well when together...We're engaged." In extreme situations, people can even knowing it--like in Cast Away, island and declared legally dead, starts a family with another man, Chuck returns. "What's your daughter's name?" "Katie." "I always knew you were alive. I knew it. But everybody said that I had to let you go." And when it comes to for much of our history, the "other" person in society's eyes, relationship predates either person's This can lead to the feeling, almost, the "other person." "She'll have lots of money, She is an innocent, so she will suspect I think we could be happy." 2005's Brokeback Mountain, about the in the 1960s, centers the romance go on to marry women and become (at least in their wives' view), "Jack Twist?" "No." "Jack Nasty!" but in their hearts no one could "I wish I knew how to quit you." "Then why don't you?" Even on Friends, while Ross was hurt his wife Carol cheated with "You slept with another woman?" "Oh, you're, you're one to talk." clearly, Carol and Susan were and Carol's infidelity was an her honestly understanding Music is a medium where it's easy no matter where they fall immersed in the singer's emotion judging them. In Melanie Martinez's "Pacify Her," homewrecker who articulates exactly belong to someone else. She sings, "Someone told me / But was he yours, In Dolly Parton's iconic "Jolene," to have mercy, and not to take her man On Taylor Swift's album, Folklore, three songs--"Cardigan," "Betty," with "Cardigan" narrated by the girl "Betty" by the cheating guy, Swift herself says that the a "bad girl," claiming: "She was trying to seem cool because that's what girls have to do, very real... Still, that sympathy for the held fast for Taylor: she released in response to rumors that Joe Jonas the "other woman." And it is really understandable to be angry at the person they perceive especially if that other person knowingly and even more so if the other person It's the reason why viewers were slept with her best friend "I would have never done this to you." And contemporary narratives like who's conniving to steal a married man's "Haven't you ever wanted a woman Mrs. Russell has many qualities, to wage in the world. She has no time for yours." Yet most of these stories make it clear relationship who's accountable for the In Agnes Varda's feminist movie for the wife's suicide, and then the wife in the family. And ultimately, this reveals an underlying how he regards these women as It's satisfying to watch portrayals that Other Woman and the wife or something even those 2000s movies The fact is that it's not possible to The cheating man may be deeply the other woman may be desperately as we see with Cassie. "Aren't you afraid people are "At least I'm loved." Psychoanalyst Herbert Strean (2000) so there's often a deep-seated reason The Other Woman also takes on when people are more likely to have Approximately 4% of adults are in polygamy and polyamory are situations the express consent and understanding The fourth season of The Crown portrays Prince Charles, Princess Diana, "Well, there were three of us so it was a bit crowded." To Diana, her husband's devotion to that dooms their marriage, Camilla is his rightful love, and his family are in the wrong The Crown again illustrates this murky when you consider a person's history someone's control why a relationship But it ultimately makes Diana out to be in this situation, because he wasn't She wasn't informed, a prince, what she was "To be the protagonist you must first be wronged. A victim." Portrayals like these-- show that it's really the so unhealthy and sinister. There wouldn't be such a thing articulated our feelings better, and desires more openly. The Duchess shows a real-life, the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire mistress can live with them. "The Duke and Duchess of Devonshire, It's not that this arrangement isn't the patriarchal setup of the time the love of her life, after all-- and gives them her blessing to marry In Friends, we see that Joey's mom on her, because he treats her better, a blind eye to his infidelity. "Do you remember how Always yelling, always yelling, And he's been more attentive, every day's our anniversary." It makes us question whether we if the marriage improved-- we aren't necessarily always years go on, we might still maintain In The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, after Joel cheated, she gets "Do you know I've seen her twice Penny. Twice. Twice? You can only be trusted to butter More importantly, the loss of Joel into another woman--a different, with a more fulfilling existence. But what about the mistress's existence? Can she be fulfilled by staying Well, maybe. "I have it all on the East Side. He has someone else "So you're okay with that?" "Yes. I don't have time I have a full-time job." As Nicki Minaj says in I think you need someone keep him busy." The key is remaining honest, your partner on their needs and making sure that everyone Ultimately, we need to demystify She's rarely in it for financial gain often portrayed to be in the past-- any other person, We should be accepting that all sorts of people-- in their own stories. In 2019, Lizzo was quoted in in the song "Truth Hurts." She said, "I sing, your sidechick,' but originally Bitch, what about sidechicks! I don't want to exclude them! I don't want to make them We could all take a little of the next time we're quick to judge she might just be a friend "I am with you. I have always been with you. Are you with me?" We have a new Takeaway episode We are talking about The Wilds. It's been such a wild ride. Season 1's ending set up really as well as characters that and maybe even see a few "It's not voyeurism if it's research." Well, we know from Season 1 "Ladies and gentlemen, and ostensibly, her goal is to governing themselves than men. There is something going on here: It can't be just an intellectual are better than guys. I'm really interested to find out true agendas are. Looking at the Season 2 trailer we're going to find out more but also what happened I think there are going to be Maybe there was more time end of Season 1 and when Maybe they weren't rescued initially thought. Don't forget to check out the just in time for the newest season premiering on May 6.