This nuclear power plant in Georgia is the nation's advanced. Vogtle Unit 3 and 4 came online in 2023 and respectively, and are the first new reactors built in over three decades. Together with a pair of reactors built in the 1980s, businesses. This is Unit 3 in front of us. That's the shield building. Inside of that is the containment structure, and the The rise of AI, cloud computing and data centers is surge. U.S. electricity needs are expected to grow 2.4% annually and 2030. But bringing a nuclear power plant to life is One of the challenges with nuclear power is that it's behind schedule. And that happened here at Plant Vogtle Unit 3 and 4 were initially budgeted at $14 doubled. The project also ran seven years behind We had some challenges. It was an arduous journey, things that we didn't I mean, from the tsunami in Fukushima to the I mean, there were a number of things that occurred. Plant Vogtle had a lot of promise once upon a time but become a serious heartache for people in Georgia cost became so incredibly high. And those costs are all passed along to Georgians who With its 54 operating nuclear power plants and 94 is the world's largest producer of nuclear power, electricity, but at an average age of 42 years those and replacing them is a complex task. So why is it so hard to build nuclear reactors in the And should the new Vogtle reactors be a blueprint or a CNBC went to Waynesboro, Georgia to find out. Vogel Unit 4, the newest U.S. nuclear reactor to enter service, began operations in expectancy of up to 80 years its cooling tower stands weighs more than the Statue of Liberty. Though it may look like smoke is being emitted, that's Nuclear power plants produce no greenhouse gas power produce electricity 24-7. This is a really complex machine here. A lot of highly skilled labor force needs to be here. A lot of specialized parts. You have to bring all of that together in a major way. In the reactor. We're splitting atoms. We're making a tremendous amount of heat. We're using that heat heat to make steam, which is generator. With the addition of Unit 4 plant Vogtle about 4658MW, surpassing Arizona's Palo Verde plant and making it the largest generator of clean Unit 3 and 4 are also the first U.S. deployment of Westinghouse's Ap1000 reactor. Vogel is almost a evolution of the previous reactors built in this country. Westinghouse supported the building of 40 plus country in the 60s, 70s, 80s and the AP1000 is learning all the lessons from that past and putting The upgrades include a smaller footprint than existing a modular construction design that allows for some of components like valves, cables and pumps. The new reactor is also much safer than ones built in The AP1000 was designed to withstand aircraft impact, reactors from aircraft impact. There are 750,000 gallons of water in that tank that And that is because traditionally, when we've seen because they lost control to their power source, and reactor. If in the unlikely event that they lost and cool the reactor for 72 hours. But the construction process has faced a number of Vogtle, from the start, was an extraordinarily When you are pursuing a first of a kind technology in may not have built that technology for a long time, project and started your engagement before you've even of that project. Well, there's bound to be some challenges. And this project unfortunately ran into a lot of It is hard to pinpoint where things went wrong because Vogtle may be a model for the engineers, but when it big warning. This country hadn't built a nuclear plant from start to back together in terms of supply chain, in terms of were a lot of things that had to be brought together The U.S. generates about 60% of its electricity from petroleum, roughly 21% from renewable energy sources, energy. While electricity demand has been flat for the surge. In 2023 alone, about 4.18 trillion kilowatt was generated in the U.S. that's 2.2% higher than 2022. Power demand from data centers alone is expected to 2031. Chat GPT query, for example, needs about ten electricity to process, as does a Google search. That has sparked renewed interest in nuclear energy OpenAI chief Sam Altman, who have been investing in It really feels like we're at a pivotal moment for the riding on Plant Vogtle. The world's first experimental nuclear power plant, got 1951. The number of U.S. nuclear reactors peaked at 112, but today there's is falling behind. The United States is certainly falling behind some technology, development of nuclear technology, nuclear The main leaders right now in this space are notably United States does not typically like to be lagging them. Across the globe, roughly five dozen nuclear reactors planning stages. China currently has the lion's share with 30 nuclear Russia and Turkey. But the U.S. Is having a hard time getting large commercial nuclear I wouldn't call it falling behind. We've seen a number of activities where private laboratories to build this new technology, and it And the main point here is we do not want to at the cost of making a mistake. Critics argue cost overruns have dampened enthusiasm In 2017, the construction of two nuclear reactors in rising costs after more than $9 billion was invested. Georgia state regulators in late 2023 approved a plan by roughly $9 per month to pay for the $7.5 billion in costs at Plant Vogtle. That's on top of the roughly $5.42 monthly increase summer. People's concern has shifted this summer into anger. I mean, people are beyond frustrated watching their People are paying $200, $300, $600 utility bills one of the hottest summers we've had in a really long While there is some, you know, of course, appreciation Georgia, the question is, who's paying for that? Vogtle Unit 3 and 4 created 800 permanent jobs. At the peak of construction, the site employed more The Department of Energy guaranteed more than $12 Public sentiment to nuclear power in the US has been those of Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania. Chernobyl in the former Soviet Union and Fukushima in But as new technology makes nuclear reactors safer, A recent study said 56% of U.S. adults now support more nuclear power plants. We're really looking at a technology that was really back of American innovation and ingenuity in the past, are we or have we already ceded our leadership. To a new generation of small modular reactors or SMRSs Terrapower, founded by Bill gates, broke ground on its Wyoming in June 2024. Unlike most U.S. Reactors that use water to absorb heat, Natrium uses The reactor is smaller than traditional ones and is Westinghouse is planning to launch a mini version of AP300. The new reactor will generate about a third of and supply electricity to about 300,000 homes. Small modular reactors appropriate when you need to when the the bigger grid is not available. In addition, they provide vendors and utilities with go, right. So you can construct six modules now and split some of the construction and operational costs future. So small modular reactors provide a number of cannot be a replacement. They too, have faced headwinds. In 2023 Oregon-based Nuscale power canceled its Idaho small modular nuclear reactor power plant, after costs But despite those setbacks, many see nuclear energy as transition away from fossil fuels and reach net zero If we're truly serious about getting to a carbon free You can't do that without nuclear and still invest in even just increased demands because of continuous When you look at the value and you look at the needs of forward to meet this demand now and into the future. Nuclear has got to be a part of that future.