You're watching FreeSchool! At the northernmost point of our world lies and light - where strange creatures have made Despite the bitterly cold winters, life flourishes ecosystem a remarkable one. Come explore the Arctic, one of the most remote Because of the tilt of Earth's axis, the Arctic and very little in the winter. As spring turns to summer, the days become a day when the sun does not set at all. When daylight lingers all through the night, occurs in the days surrounding the summer As fall turns into winter the days get shorter when the sun does not rise and darkness lasts This is called Polar Night. The polar night may be long, but there is The aurora borealis, also known as the Northern sky that is only visible near the north pole. Although they may occur at any time, they faint to be seen in the light of the sun. The Northern Lights have fascinated people Some people once thought they were spirits the flames of dragons. Today's scientists have learned that the auroras that interact with Earth's magnetosphere, it glows. Auroras will also occur in the skies surrounding Southern Lights. Any place on earth far enough north that it not set and one day where the sun does not Circle. The Arctic Circle is an imaginary line that North Latitude. The Arctic is mostly ocean, but it also includes Russia, Norway, Finland, Sweden, and Iceland. Lands at the southern edges of the Arctic The tundra is vast, and for the most part, The short Arctic summers are too cool and but there is another barrier as well: permafrost. Beneath a thin active layer of soil that thaws frozen. The plants that survive - mostly grass, moss, and shrubs, grow close to the ground and have shallow Although there is little rain on the tundra, The frozen upper layer of soil thaws out, the frozen barrier of the permafrost. Since temperatures there rarely climb higher very little of the water evaporates. Instead, it sits on top of the permafrost turn to ice as soon as temperatures sink below Many birds, especially waterfowl, will migrate One bird that does this is the trumpeter swan, far south as Texas or Mexico. With adults frequently reaching weights of living that is native to North America. It is also the largest species of waterfowl 10 feet or 3 meters. The Arctic wetlands provide an important habitat that decimated populations in Canada and the of the 20th century. By 1933, only a few dozen wild trumpeters people feared they would become extinct. Then, a second population of trumpeter swans them. Some of the Alaskan swans were carefully introduced allowing the populations to recover. Waterfowl are not the only animals to make Fish like salmon and cod migrate to the waterways The fish, in turn, attract predators like Wolverine and fox live here, too, as well Caribou, or reindeer, are one of the world's In the winter, they travel south to snowy They cannot survive farther north, where the the snow to eat the moss and lichens beneath In the spring, they migrate north again to tundra and birth their calves. Some North American caribou have the longest up to 3,000 miles or 5,000 kilometers. Animals attempting to survive in the Arctic have found it by changing their appearance. In a land of ice and snow, it is sometimes Some animals, like the snowy owl, keep white Others, like the arctic fox, wear brown or in the winter. Another color changer is the ptarmigan. Covered in patchy brown and white feathers plumage as the days shorten. Both male and female ptarmigans will go through feathers. Once the snow begins to melt, bright white and so they change back. The female regains her brown camouflage first, from predators while she sits on her eggs. The males, on the other hand, keep their white a female - and to prove that they are smart feathers. The puffin is another Arctic bird - with a Puffins are seabirds. They only return to land to breed, nesting They prefer to breed on islands, where Puffins spend months at a time out on the coloring comes in handy. They have black feathers on their backs, and This color pattern is called countershading, water when seen from above, or the bright Although they can fly, puffins are awkward their webbed feet as they sit on the water's To catch fish, they dive, moving along by do. The rich feeding grounds of the northern oceans larger. Humpback whales travel north in the spring in the frigid waters. Although humpbacks are often solitary, they A group of humpback whales together can use trap fish and krill. The whales will surround and circle a school Then, other whales begin blowing a ring of Once the fish are trapped close together, mouths wide open, scooping up huge quantities Their baleen plates allow them to strain the The humpbacks must eat massive amounts of up their fat stores. When the weather turns cold, they will migrate eat again until the spring. It is in these warmer waters that they mate the freezing temperatures near the poles. It is important for the adults to have successful yearly migration. As we travel farther north, we come to areas in a place called the High Arctic. Even here, there is life. Instead of tundra, the high arctic has polar Far fewer plants survive here, mainly moss As a result, most food chains do not rely Instead, they begin in the sea. The walrus is at home on the land, in the They sleep and rest on beaches or on ice shelves. They prefer to live near shallow waters. Walrus cannot dive as deeply as their relatives, the sea floor to find their favorite foods: They may look peculiar, but walruses are well-adapted Their wrinkled skin is nearly 4 inches or blubber beneath it is even thicker: nearly The purpose of both is the same - to allow Thick skin and thick blubber contribute to weigh more than 2000 lbs or 900 kg, and some By far their most recognizable trait, however, Both male and female walruses grow tusks. Tusks are enlarged teeth that can grow about Walruses use their tusks like ice picks, to sheets of ice. They also use their tusks to clear breathing Finally, tusks provide some defense against whales, and polar bears. Because of their harsh Arctic habitat, polar They eat mostly seals, waiting at breathing through the surface of the water and then Sometimes they will catch beluga, narwhal, of this kind is much more difficult to manage. Polar bears are the largest land predators swimmers, sometimes swimming for days at a Like the walrus, polar bears are well adapted Thick white fur serves as camouflage as well provides extra warmth. Their paws are extra wide, to help them distribute of snow or thin ice without breaking through, grab onto slippery prey as well as better The Arctic is a harsh, forbidding land, but Plants and animals live and grow and flourish Many species depend on the cold and the ice gone. Because the Arctic climate is so unwelcoming undeveloped, but we can still disturb the Hunting... pollution...and gathering natural network supporting life in the northernmost I hope you learned a lot today about the Arctic, Goodbye till next time!