GODFREY: It is wonderful to be here with you. It And we are all so aware of the importance of and for our culture. And what a great struggle as I reflected on addressing this subject, that, Gospel of John has often been described, John there's a great truth to that. It may well be in our time at least, is &quot;God so loved the world John is the apostle of love, but I was just as much the apostle of truth. And John, tension between truth and love. Love is always tension. There's no contradiction. There's utterly harmonized. John, in his first letter let us not love in word or talk but in deed and called to by John, and it's what John recorded keep My commandments. If you love Me, keep My And some of the greatest statements about are statements that are contained in John's and we beheld his glory, the only begotten of the the grace of truth and the truth of grace. He's think about how Jesus tells us that those who will in spirit and in truth.&quot; Jesus always connects and we speak the truth to Him. Or we think about free. The truth will set you free.&quot; Or we can &quot;I am the way, the truth, and the life,&quot; the and He promises that he'll send the Spirit of to &quot;consecrate us in the truth,&quot; and declares of truth recurs over and over and over again in And equally famous, I think, is the just hours before Jesus is led away to at verse 36, Pilate has been questioning Jesus. is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But 'So are you a king?' Jesus answered, 'You say and for this purpose I have come into the world. the truth listens to my voice.' Pilate said Jesus came into the world to tell the truth. He says He came into the world, to bear truth. And it's a significant part, isn't it, lots of people don't want to hear the truth. We're they don't love the truth. They don't tell the &quot;O men, how long will you love vain words be the banner headline of the time in which we Apparently, we're told that large numbers of phone, and I'm appalled what comes up as news celebrities than there is about politicians. Maybe being my age is I've never heard of one of those to be famous. I need an interpreter. I need Paul's great evaluation of the trouble with fallen a lie.&quot; Jesus came to bear testimony to the People were caught up in deception. People were what is liberating, what is enlightening, what opposition wherever He went, was because John's Gospel leads us as Jesus moves from truth that John, late in his life, looked at the other but they left out some really good bits. So, I have been left out so far. And I, I think how Jesus bore witness to the Father. He does but I think particularly of those words in where Jesus is speaking to His Father and says, the only true God.&quot; The only true God. That's what What a challenge that is in our day, to declare only one true God. There's only one truth about not the truth we would like to believe. One of is a factory of idolatry. We're pumping out We're producing gods, and those gods are all mankind believes is that we can decide what God and the whole message that Jesus came to bear He is. We don't know it automatically. We the wisdom to find it out. He has to tell That's why John's Gospel begins with was the Word.&quot; And that &quot;Word&quot; really could be in the beginning was the declaration, in the or twice and I always find it discourages we ever get?&quot; In the beginning, God had a truth Jesus came into the world, as we read in is the Word. Jesus is the message. Jesus is the be told about the one true God, and Jesus tells us &quot;It's good for you that I go away, because if of each one of you. And that Spirit, being the You're not here today because of your own wisdom. work in your hearts, so that you have a longing about the Father, what Jesus is telling us ourselves and our need, what Jesus is telling us We see that so powerfully, don't we, is really opening up His heart about who He is, is and what it demands of Him. And I think it's the great chapters in the Scripture about Christ Reformers discovered as they came back to the again. It's Christ alone who is the bread of life, That's what Jesus says in chapter 6. people leave. And then, Jesus says, &quot;And you you can't believe that I'm the bread of heaven, my blood is true drink unless my Father drags you And what happens? More people leave. And then, believe Me. It's faith alone that connects you to themselves. They want Jesus to give good advice. utterly and exclusively on Him. And so many have &quot;Will you too leave Me?&quot; And I think John must Peter got it right. &quot;Lord, to whom shall That's the truth that Jesus came to teach witness to. He tells us the truth about the he tells us the truth about ourselves, that He is the truth. There's a famous statement novelist, Dostoyevsky, who was a very determined &quot;If I was absolutely persuaded that there I would follow Jesus.&quot; Well, I'm channeling R.C. That's terrible!&quot; Jesus is the truth. He asks doesn't ask you to put your mind away. He doesn't comes with light. He comes with the light of and wonderful by His truth. And that's the Jesus the world in which we live is that not everyone And here in John 18, we have this very between Jesus and Pilate. Do you notice Pilate could have been living in 2024. It's be king. It's all about who has power in being here before me,&quot; says Pilate, &quot;to find going to cause trouble for me as a political &quot;My kingdom is not of this world. My kingdom is I'm here about truth.&quot; And Pilate makes that Now, there's been a fair amount of speculation question. Is he sincerely interested in the he expressing a kind of deep-seated skeptical I suspect that really Pilate is just sort of to do with anything when politics is involved? politics! And you're trying to distract us with much the way John writes the scene. Pilate a moment's thought to truth when he has a country &quot;There are crowds in the street. There might done. What is truth got to do with anything?&quot; Have you ever faced that when you've tried to There are other people who are not interested asked a question by a little servant girl. Him. Don't know Him.&quot; Why did Peter say isn't it? That's why sometimes people don't tell They're afraid. They're afraid of how others will there are the Jewish leaders in this chapter. and Pilate says, &quot;What has He done wrong?&quot; And the if He hadn't done evil!&quot; Well, what's the attitude arrogance. &quot;We know the truth. We know the good. Pilate. Put him to death!&quot; And that captures of truth. Some are afraid of the truth. Some are need to listen to the real truth. And some, part of the truth, doesn't he? Over &quot;I find no guilt in this man. I find no guilt But Pilate is not willing to stand up for that embrace the lie, take Him and crucify Him, This is the world we live in, a world when truth are arrogant. But Jesus came to say, &quot;Don't be be those who hear the truth.&quot; Did you notice that of rush on to Pilate's question, &quot;What is truth?&quot; He says, &quot;Everyone who is of the truth, My voice.&quot; Isn't that interesting? Who listens people who have already heard the truth, people who are following the truth. They're the saying to Pilate, as he said in John because you're not of the truth. You haven't been Jesus really is taking us into the mystery election can, to some people, be disturbing, to the mystery of election is so important because The mystery of election says to us, we are not are not good enough to find the truth on must be given to us by a sovereign be opened. Our hearts have to be softened, bears has to be imprinted on our hearts by the that we gather as a confident people, but not as have not been given?&quot; And when we contemplate how amazed we must be that God would have been so truth in a way that we would hear the voice This year marks an anniversary that I Historians are given to anniversaries, and This is the 75th anniversary of the writing was entitled 1984. 1984 was written in 1949. Communism seemed very much on the advance. to be the powerful man of Europe. George and he was reflecting on the limits and dangers I got to thinking about it because in 1984, James Montgomery Boyce organized a conference, Reformed Theology, to talk about the book 1984. I was part of that conference, and it suddenly conference that I had not read 1984 since 1984. I was surprised. I don't know what I remembered it to you with the warning, it's a nightmare. to keep us awake at night worrying about a And there are so many phrases that have come out screens in 1984, but those screens not only speak you, the screens know what is happening to you. Brother is a bureaucracy called the Ministry Truth is to produce lies, lies in the realm of lies in the realm of media. And what is striking power of these institutions to influence and entertainment. One of the little subsections technology as becoming a greater and one of the technological advances in the book write music with no human involvement. And I thought this morning, &quot;What a glory to be truth, to sing the truth as it comes from the the book ends on a terribly depressing note. The resisting Big Brother, who tried to protect some human freedom, is ultimately defeated by torture you're suspected of thinking on your own. And They know what it is. They've found out about confronts rats. He is afraid of rats. And in and the mask can be attached to his head with little fence that can be raised so the rats can Winston is destroyed as a human being. Big Brother's representative had predicted. What picture of a military boot stamping a human face And Orwell wrote this book as a warning, not as power of the lie, the danger of the lie, the everything good and everything human. And we as to tell us the truth. To tell us the truth that To tell us the truth that unites us to one from error. To tell us the truth that consecrates that guides us into the life that we're called to have been given the truth, to whom God has spoken &quot;He has come that we might have life and As you've listen to the voice of Jesus, has become more abundant, more blessed? If better? Sometimes I think the, the truth we need but just tell the truth about what Jesus has Savior. How blessed to know that we live not of blessedness. How wonderful to know that where God is in control of all things. Where what happens politically, God will &quot;work all who are called according to His purpose.&quot; Because Isn't that wonderful that we as Christians Jesus is King. He reigns today. Now, now the much more glorious, much more evident one right? Already now we have the truth that He to trust Him. That's what belief is, isn't it? to do what is right, to make our lives whole some of you pretty well, so I know that but He's made us His own. And He's called us this world is about. To trust Him when He says is the way, the truth, and the life. He's the way God, and we cannot find life in any other. And And even as He reveals the mystery of election one of us, &quot;So, even though you can't come on &quot;Wait. Let's see about you. Are you one see.&quot; Jesus never says, &quot;Wait.&quot; The apostles come to Me, all you who are weary and heavy you rest. I'll give you rest right now. I'll life. I'll give you rest that will be eternal. And Do you believe that? And so, the doctrine of have come and are able to say, &quot;I came because me. I came because Jesus set his Spirit into came because I heard Him and He made me believe And we've entered in to a wonderful reality. You know, there are those little read. Even John Calvin did not write And if John Calvin didn't write a commentary do with that? But what do we read in 3 John? not really noticed before. 3 John 8 says, we fellow workers for the truth. We are fellow with the Spirit. We are fellow workers with truth. And Jesus is sending us out in the world He prayed, didn't He? &quot;Father, as You sent Me As you sent Me into the world to tell the truth, We go as fellow workers for the truth. We go, in I like to think of Ligonier as a fellowship of the as many ways as we possibly can. Truth-telling by lectures. In the fellowship of truth, in the to do is tell the truth that Jesus told to us. So that you can go out with more truth and Christ. I'm so glad we're fellow workers for the came to tell us the truth. And we've heard Him, Let's pray together. How we do thank You, we thank You that He has brought to us eternal and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. Fill us serving. Fill our minds and our hearts with together for the truth in this needy world.