LISA LING (VOICEOVER): I'm the traumas of the past are today. All these people standing WOMAN: Yes, they are. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): The in South Dakota has rates of alcoholism, in the United States. Living conditions here have been Life expectancy is 40. Which is incredibly low. But today, there's MAN (VOICEOVER): Shoot. [GUNSHOTS] LISA LING (VOICEOVER): are arming themselves to save Native Americans from [MUSIC - K-DAWG] Take a drink of life. You know you got to taste Try not to waste it. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): known as K-Dawg-- is a [MUSIC - K-DAWG] The past is a tattoo. No, you can't erase it. I got friends that I drinking and driving. When I put things I'm just trying to LISA LING (VOICEOVER): have been told about but we were challenged to So many things portrayed it's always incredibly sad. You might have to go to find some positive LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Tonight, and beyond, where first people forging a new I want everybody to are a proud, strong people. I really do believe that there's It feels good to see that, we're a sad people at all. I think we're an amazing people. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): America. It can be inspiring It can also be dark and ugly. It's so many things, It's &quot;Our America.&quot; This is my first trip to some 40,000 Lakota Indians. Just over 100 years were fighting for their land. Now, they're fighting To understand the stakes, like here on the reservation. It's a troubled place, There are no affordable theaters, no youth centers. In the last few years, teen I've come here to find out fighting to turn things around. Hello, how you been doing? Have you been walking LISA LING (VOICEOVER): With of volunteers, Eileen Janis program on the reservation. What do you want to do? Are you still sad? LISA LING (VOICEOVER): she's been on the front lines and she wants America to How young are they? We had a five-year-old. But the ones that are are from 13, 14, 15. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Eileen It was from their friends big the problem actually was. It was just so many That's how we knew we needed Why should people care about what's going That's a tough one. Why should they care? It's so hard to explain don't understand what really as a whole. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): is one of the darkest chapters The colonization of Native seized their territory survivors into permanent When they put us they said just sit We'll bring you your food, They set us up to fail. People always say historical Why don't you let it go? Let the past go, LISA LING (VOICEOVER): seems like ancient history. But as I look around, it's clear has had lasting effects, to the next. There's many families You got maybe three, living in one house. Do you think most of the here have jobs? No, because there is no jobs. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): no industry on the to bring in revenue. The average income is The only government in the form of food stamps and a once-a-year You can feel the It's really bleak. Yes, it is, but LISA LING (VOICEOVER): I'm kids here are up against, and it's not just poverty. Something even worse has and now the kids themselves-- a crippling Though the reservation just a quick trip to the town of White and four liquor stores. They make $4 Just off Indians? Yes. They used to only be but now it's younger people. So Eileen just of what she says all the And apparently it's a very high alcoholic content. See, it's 12% alcohol. It's like four cans so this is what it's doing I heard someone say this Do you believe that's true? In Martin, one of the young were laying under him. They really don't want to die. They don't want to die, LISA LING (VOICEOVER): While and motivations Eileen tells me that to say enough is enough. I'm about to meet a family that and won the battle. At 13, Misun Mills has Most of the suicide are made by kids around his thing from Misun's mind. His father Roger is determined I used to drink. I used to party. But it took me I quit drinking, quit drugging, Now I'm trying to work on I want them to live a good life. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): hard at one of the few jobs He's a trash collector. It's not glamorous, but it's 80% of the people who Roger's job ensures his family They live on the in a well-kept trailer by rolling hills and big sky. - Hello. - Are you Roger? Hi Roger, Lisa. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. - This is my son Misun. Hi. Nice to meet you. So what are you guys We watch football, it's That doesn't sound too Native. No. Why are you eating kidney It's for your health. What are the health For colds, and a lot of eat it all the time. So this is traditional? Yeah, it's a traditional food. Will you eat it with me? Yeah, I'll eat a piece. I'll eat a big piece. At 36 years old, anywhere would be considered young, The average age for a male Life expectancy? Life expectancy is 40. Is 40, which is Yeah. I got friends, we all joke 40's coming around the corner. It's almost here, Do you think you're How many friends do you Whoo, quite a bit. Why do you think it is? Like, why are there so many There ain't nothing here. I know you see all but there really ain't got nothing to do it with. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Roger thought he could make off the reservation. Moved to the city, worked up with the gangs and but it's hard to adapt Eventually I came home. Everyone comes home. This is where your right here on the reservation. Roger was 25 when along with a newfound I have my kids and time to get to my roots need to do to and to make it to live past 40. LISA LING: What do that your dad stopped doing Good, because if he didn't, and it wouldn't Do you see a lot of already getting into alcohol? I know some of the kids LISA LING: And where Partying. You feel lucky who's doing the right thing? Yeah. I'm glad he's doing the right and he loves me. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Misun has crossed Roger has taught him to so he wears his hair long and ROGER MILLS: Cut me some LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Today He'll be competing and Roger is his him prep the elaborate of thousands of spectators. One of these days, to do this all by yourself. Think you can handle that? Mm-hmm. Or you hope you could. I can. You got the magic. Yep. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): to the Civic Center Every year, thousands gather here to and keep it alive They call it a Powwow. It's a combination of ritual, Ten years ago when Roger he committed himself and his a place to socialize that comes from tradition. ROGER MILLS: That's just We just dance and showcase it. And it's a big family, you know. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): The Mills here together. Are you ready? LISA LING (VOICEOVER): in front of the crowds. And even though she's so will his little sister Maya. When I put them clothes I don't know, I'm like and just showing off my talent. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): will take center perform moves perfected hundreds of years ago. The Powwow Trail can be a way to connect with something But it takes strong and not every kid has Too few have found a healthy and too often, they give up. A teenager in Pine as likely to take their own life There are more suicides than anywhere else in the are very young. Why do you think that Hopelessness. Because when I was I just thought it was I had nothing to live for. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): easy for 52-year-old a native of Pine Ridge, of a troubled childhood. She started a support to let them know LONNIE POIRIER: through all the through when I was younger. LISA LING: Like, I was molested three times, in the house, or just drinking. And you just learn So I just hid it. Didn't tell nobody, I felt dirty, and ugly. I just wanted to get and that's the only LISA LING (VOICEOVER): The suicide when she was not much here today, abuse that continues Every time I see a student, had sex against their will. More often than not, the And we need to stop These are things that cause and maybe even and we all know that LISA LING (VOICEOVER): that the key to is reaching them Just one year ago, took her own life, still doesn't understand. How old was she? 14. And it just came Yeah, it just How did you find out about it? We were all at home, and everybody just We couldn't believe it. She was the center of a lot of people One day you'll be fine, then and then you'll miss her. Feel lonesome after that. LISA LING: Miss her a lot, huh? Yeah. I don't think none going to get over that loss. LISA LING: But the focus is to celebrate life, and the life ahead Our balloons are going to Tea. We still want to It hurts. It still hurts. And I see a lot of tears in her said I miss you, Tea. Let's go. Hang on tight. But Tea's watching and she's keeping them strong. OK? She's with them. [SINGING] LISA LING (VOICEOVER): As I look to imagine how hard it ones with such regularity. But by openly perhaps Lonnie can help reduce in to the suicide hotline. And this is the Yes, it is. It's Mariah's grave. She was a freshman So 14 years old? Yes. Do you know the EILEEN JANIS: Her mother but the other family members She was tired of it. That's what the How did she kill herself? She hung herself in a What is it like and you stand here in I just remember her happy Why didn't she come to us? Why didn't we do more? Why didn't, you It's so hard now to go to funerals and wakes because there is You always think, what What would they have been? Maybe she would have maybe she would Maybe she would or had a good idea of how to You always wonder. It could be a lot of pressure a lot of these kids feel and most of them, I assume, I've sat myself down many Is it really going But Tunkasila made me big and whatever I had to, and he so I can do it. And that's what helps, about me before I was born. Tunkasila. Tunkasila. That's grandfather. Creator. So I'll do whatever it takes to give them hope. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): when bad things tend to happen darkness and despair EILEEN JANIS: Every out there's getting a call Sometimes you get LISA LING (VOICEOVER): working the phones, taking to young people she knows alone, and possibly suicidal. How are you doing? You been staying sober, then? Do you want to go to treatment? No? Are you still sad? We got sweat going Might help you to organize your LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Eileen on the phone to take part in important rituals the sweat lodge, a sacred place to gather, pray, and Eileen has started using the in her suicide prevention work. Tell us about the Hey, this is the first I just thought that because she's having a tough She's at a place where she don't Her boyfriend's gone She don't see a future, LISA LING (VOICEOVER): a single mom with struggling with depression She's now at a crossroads, or turn her life around. Makes me wonder if I didn't with friends, not if something happened be able to forgive myself. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Kelsey wants to break and take responsibility I look at it now that I want to make life LISA LING (VOICEOVER): a handful of other girls girls who found a release in sacred Lakota traditions. In the sweat, the and they take those When you're sweating it takes all the bad out, After you cry, you You feel reborn. That's what comes This is the first medicine You pray with it. In our way of life, You've just got to have belief. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): To be it's an honor not offered We're asked to Eileen's son Robert pours and the steam builds as we We go around the circle, give thanks, offer a prayer. Even to me, the like a safe and healing place. To be in the sweat, That felt good. I prayed for me and for guidance to bring us a for me and my son. I just love him so much. We need to put hope We need to teach them of what keeps them going, LISA LING (VOICEOVER): are turning back to to help their young, others are modern solution. A lot of these kids if they just see it. There aren't really gangs here. It's just getting That's all they need, that you've got a let no one tell you otherwise. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): 23-year-old Joe Mesteth has been guarding his vision as it takes shape around him. For the first time something new is being Ridge Reservation, a skateboard park. Skateboarding is going here are the Rez, big time. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): for this park came together as and pro skaters from who saw the same potential I talked about a skate but it's here. My dream's in stone. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): the joy of growing up on the reservation. His own life started-- like many others here-- as the product of High school, as you know, Yeah, I kind of LISA LING (VOICEOVER): was spent in an unit, packed with aunts, uncles, drank. At 14, he started taking in an alcoholic house. His addiction lasted Joe finally got clean. He credits skateboarding There's no limit to can do with a skateboard. Skate across the country, LISA LING (VOICEOVER): skating can save other once was, on a dangerous path. Now, after months the Pine Ridge Skate I have been waiting for this and started digging LISA LING (VOICEOVER): with his own ritual. That's, like, my true face I want the world to know a lot of our kind of in touch with our roots, people is that we never [MUSIC PLAYING] You know, sun dance, the so that way good things will You don't eat or drink and you just dance, that God will help the world. This skate park right here This is where I'm and this is where I'm going I'm going to be following comes up, all the way down. That's how much the skate I'm relating it This is my sun dance, the [MUSIC PLAYING] LISA LING (VOICEOVER): The today is hungry for change. There's an energy in the for kids who've been Rapper K-Dawg has brought for how something as can help his community. I believe this great if we just take time I mean, look at the skate park. It's a beautiful Maybe it's going Instead of going out and they might be down at You almost got it. This time. That board's a part of you. Keep it there. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): While his early struggles He's an old soul now with wisdom You got to push it I need to do a lot Three big pushes. That's why I'm put Keep your feet on. To teach these kids Oh, Jay. Good job, man. You're awesome. They got to look up somebody. Shove it. Nice. He's going to be a good The children are our future. They're going to be the when we're all old and frail. They're going to be so we might as well That's what life's about. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): on another are on the road to manhood. Hold it against there. Take it right there. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): called the Ihanktonwan. Allies of the Lakota, they They also share the same lead to depression and suicide. 13-year-old Arian Iron Elk has but this weekend, one of the basic how to put food on the table. There's a lot of They're about to do going to take a something to be taken lightly. It's a brave thing LISA LING (VOICEOVER): is Kip Spotted Eagle, an eighth Kip believes the key to strong men lies in the old once sustained their ancestors. Learning how to hunt, that's It's been going on for and it's neat that Arian's father Armando to take this trip as a step not just for himself, Armando used to be a Today, he's crippled and And it's tough. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): of diabetes are on South Dakota's reservations, of processed food that killed off their buffalo. You know, basic stuff LISA LING (VOICEOVER): are hard to find and expensive when you do. Armando hopes Arian can diet with fresh game. It's an idea that's growing to eat the way they did on the reservations, to that lived good lives. Learning about going to come from the they're doing a service to This is the [NON-ENGLISH] And we're going to ask the to help our families, they have a huge will to live, Ultimately, what you're you're going to be bringing You know, Mom and Dad, they right? So this is the first time you're LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Kip the way he was raised. His mother taught Kip but she also encouraged Kip graduated from then came back to to become a teacher and the lives of the It's a big step. You could be XBoxing it Or running around but what you guys did to come out and start walking because that's what we We need more men standing You guys are on that path. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): starts long before sunrise. Kip and the boys that has been in their tribe's My feet are treated because the blood of Everything of who I am is here, it's going to greet them. It's going to be, like, I'm We've been waiting for you. Let's keep our eyes Those deer, what they'll do We're going to sit going to walk up the draw. I'll tell you guys when to and all that other stuff. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): like 15-year-old Shane, this We're sitting on We wait there for about, Nothing was coming. There's deer in here, They're good at being ninjas. And then Kevin spotted a deer. Right there. Come here, Shane. Get up, get up, get up. He told us to get down. Crawl, crawl, crawl. Wait till he comes out I don't know why that deer I thought I was going to miss But I got it right in the neck. You got him. That's a nice one. When I first saw felt sorry, because as easy as I thought it would. Hold up. Let him, let him die. It took it awhile to I sat there praying it would have a safe journey. There he went. Because it gave his life LISA LING (VOICEOVER): a young man's first of passage, a milestone One, two, three. It's not just the fact that but they're taking going to be giving it to their and so, that's a revolution. Tied to it, it's seeing their worth more than anything. And presenting the Apache. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): At the it's competition time. Mr. mills is just moments It's a familiar stage. He's been performing here since I learned how to the people I look I've been dancing Dancing is a part of When that drum beats, that's I feel powerful. I feel strong. There's nothing like it. You just feel like When I'm dancing, I feel Dance is story, and That's who you are. When you're out there dancing, back. We've been here for I'm preserving ones, what they fought for. All right, Teen Boys Grass, We're going to go to the LISA LING: What do feel when they watch you? They feel greatness, because He's kind of this little He's a warrior within, ANNOUNCER: Attention, please. Once you hear that drum, people start singing, it's on. It's just like a Tears it up out there just about every time. He told me before, what happens out there, Dad. It just happens. It just comes to me, and when I do that move, you're and it just keeps going. I'm fast because I'm just making so they know that LISA LING (VOICEOVER): by his footwork and to keep time to the drums. ANNOUNCER: Oh, [INAUDIBLE] Yeah. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): in his category, but when Misun's score puts him In second place, 591 Misun Mills. ROGER MILLS: He's so he keeps us busy, and How easy would it be for Way too easy. He has friends at his age at the age of 13 that and I have to keep and make sure he Good job, son. Proud of you. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): a long day is winding down. After the morning's kill, But Kip is using the In this day and age, And I don't think we to sit somewhere and be quiet. When I sit and I it's like a meditation for me. It makes me prayer, there hoping that something But I'm also letting things go. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): It without another but then, a deer walks Right there. You guys count to Hey, Aisha, get You're going to hurt us. OK, get ready. I'm going to whistle. [WHISTLES] Shoot. [GUNSHOTS] LISA LING (VOICEOVER): helped take down earned the right to bring the One of them is Oh man, that's our first deer. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): Kip shows Arian and the other kill. Nothing will go to waste. This is what you It's like a really Let the knife do the work. There you go. LISA LING (VOICEOVER): For in the wild, Arian something even his he would do on his first hunt. [INAUDIBLE] . Thank you, thank you, thank you. I couldn't jump, but I about that far off the ground. I used to have a 38, 40-inch I can only go about that but, you know, I mean, I'm We appreciate it. Happy for you. It makes my heart LISA LING (VOICEOVER): a special group is gathering. These are Roger's guys who've supported each other Tonight, Misun is taking next to his father, the from the one that came before. From everything seems that this is here, staying connected reviving traditions of future for your children. I tell those boys that because their great, know if they were going to be-- come to fruition. They didn't know to be born because of but they're here. You know, they If I don't tell think anybody in the city will. It just comes back to building who they are, be proud of it. They'll have a I want to see them I want these kids to go far, and They're powerful LISA LING (VOICEOVER): met on this journey are the first people, and while their one thing is clear. They are tired of being and are ready for a new one. In the future I want to be a positive man. I want them to know and what they see on TV I want them to see goodness. I went the world to and we've always been here. What I want them to know alive, so the Native grow so we don't have to die. [MUSIC PLAYING]