On February 29th, 2020, YouTube and the world were significantly improved the evolution of SpaceX rockets! Seriously though, there have been a lot of developments both so I figured it's time for an updated version of that original video. This is the evolution of SpaceX! Founded in 2002, SpaceX was the brainchild of Its goal? To reduce the outrageous cost of space travel and In the words of Musk himself: Of course, such an ambitious endeavor With its original base established in El Segundo, California, Elon invested $100 million of his own funds It was not until 2005, 3 years later, that Named after the Millennium Falcon from Star Wars, its intention was not to actually visit Mars but to prove that The 21-meter-tall Falcon 1 was a two-stage rocket payload of 180 kg, and thrusts of up to Things didn't exactly get off to a flying start, however, as the initial launch date had to be due to a combination of bad weather and mechanical failures. Still, on March 24th, 2006, Falcon 1 did finally achieve liftoff... aaand 25 seconds later, it began rolling An internal fire had caused an engine shutdown, Attempts 2 and 3 ended in a similar fashion. These failures were disastrous for SpaceX, Elon Musk has since described that and has even revealed that he was close to a mental breakdown! Thankfully though, the CEO and On September 28th, 2008, Falcon 1 successfully reached orbit, In July the following year, another major milestone was reached as the Falcon 1 In total, there were five launches. The average cost per launch for the Falcon 1 was $6.7 million. Fun Fact Originally, SpaceX had planned to also build the Falcon 1e. It would have been 6.1 meters longer than the Falcon 1 However, both the Falcon 1 and 1e were withdrawn This video is proudly sponsored by Morning Brew. If you're anything like me, you start each morning aimlessly scrolling through social media. With Morning Brew, you can make your mornings more productive by receiving a newsletter in your email Here's why I love it; it compiles all the business, finance, and tech news so you can read it in just 5 minutes! Meanwhile, you can enjoy your morning coffee. Honestly, I'm not a big fan of the news, but Morning Brew makes the news interesting with enjoyable short articles that and keeps me updated on the most important news. Oh, and did I mention it's completely free? If you're interested, I would highly recommend It only takes 15 seconds. Click the link in the description below or go to www.morningbrewdaily.com/flatlife Following its first major triumph, SpaceX was awarded a Commercial Resupply Services This involved developing a new, much bigger rocket so that SpaceX could deliver cargo Initially, SpaceX proposed the Falcon 5. Instead of 1 engine of the Falcon 1, it would have Interestingly it would have been the first American launch This meant that if one of the engines stopped working, However, in 2006 SpaceX canceled the Falcon 5 and would instead develop a much larger rocket The first version of the Falcon 9 was 48 meters tall, making it The maximum thrust of the rocket was exerting 4,940 kilonewtons in its first stage. Just like the Falcon 1, it was also a two-stage rocket, While the Falcon 1 could only carry the Falcon 9 could carry an impressive 10,450 kg, Meanwhile, the Dragon 1 capsule had measured 6.1 meters by 3.7 meters, and could deliver a payload On June 4th, 2010, the inaugural Falcon 9 test flight with the Dragon Spacecraft meeting 100% of its mission objectives. Then, on December 8th, 2010, the Falcon 9 and were tested as part of NASA's Commercial The flight resulted in SpaceX becoming the first privately funded On May 25th, 2012, the Falcon 9 delivered the achieving another first; the first commercial spacecraft In total, there were 5 launches of the Falcon 9 Version 1.0, Fun Fact Elon Musk has revealed that he named &quot;Puff the Magic Dragon,&quot; from the hit song Musk explained that he chose the name because In other words, he was "chasing the dragon." Version 1.1 of the Falcon 9 debuted in The rockets had 60% longer fuel tanks, At launch, it produced 5,885 kilonewtons. The payload capability to Low Earth Orbit The rocket engine layout compared to the previous model It was designed to simplify and There were 15 launches of the Falcon 9 version 1.1 over a In 2014, NASA awarded SpaceX another This time it included flying American astronauts, For this, SpaceX would utilize their crew capsule; the Dragon V2. Capable of carrying 4 astronauts and a total it was slightly larger than the Dragon 1, It had a design life of 10 days in free flight Fun Fact Interestingly, SpaceX had also planned to The rocket wouldn't be launched from the ground but instead launched at a high altitude by the world's largest aircraft by wingspan. The Falcon 9 Air would receive a Eventually, the project ceased as SpaceX felt the rocket did not Another further-improved version of the Also known as the 'Full Thrust,' it made After delivering 11 satellites to orbit, the first stage returned completing the first-ever orbital class rocket landing. The significance of this was huge since it proved that dramatically reducing the cost of space travel. Incremental changes were made to the Full Thrust, Block 5, the latest version, was praised by Elon Musk as it &quot;significantly improves performance and ease of reusability.&quot; Its upgrades enable it to operate for longer in orbit Block 5 measured 71 meters tall, and its first stage while the second stage thrust topped at 934 kilonewtons. It had a mass of 549,000 and could deliver a Significantly, it also has the potential to deliver The cost per launch in 2016 was $62 million, but On March 30th, 2017, SpaceX set yet another achieving the first reflight of an orbital class rocket. In other words, they managed to re-launch Following the delivery of its payload, the Falcon 9 To date, the Falcon Full Thrust was launched 132 times and had successfully landed 111 times in 117 attempts. On May 30th, 2020, SpaceX made history when it launched astronauts The astronauts were transported to the International Space Station, marking SpaceX's foray into human spaceflight since the conclusion of the Space Shuttle Program. A new era of spaceflight began as it became the Since then, SpaceX has done multiple crewed spaceflights. In September 2021, SpaceX launched the 'Inspiration4' mission, successfully completing the first orbital spaceflight Fun Fact The Falcon 9 cost approximately $440 million from That's only about a third of what NASA would SpaceX was able to cut costs by making up to 80% of the Ah, the benefits of DIY! In 2018, the Falcon Heavy was unveiled as the world's "capable of carrying large payloads to orbit While remaining the same height as the Full Thrust, the addition of two first-stage boosters increased the which is almost double the thrust of the previous model. The Falcon Heavy can carry a payload of 16,800 kilograms to Mars, and 3,500 kilograms to Pluto! As its name suggests, this rocket is...well, heavy! Its total mass is over 1.4 million kilograms! On February 7th, 2018, the Heavy made its first launch to orbit, successfully landing 2 of its 3 boosters and launching That payload, by the way, was Elon Musk's personal It costs $150 million to launch this hefty rocket each time, Although more than capable of carrying humans to space, At the time of this video, the Falcon Heavy with the two side-boosters used for the More flights using this rocket have been planned up until 2024. In preparation for a manned mission to Mars, super heavy-lift launch vehicle. The spacecraft and Super Heavy rocket are and it will be "the world's most powerful with the ability to carry in excess of 100 metric tons to Earth orbit." Standing at 120 meters in total, the first-stage and the second-stage spacecraft is 50 meters tall. The rocket is much bigger than SpaceX's other rockets and which will make it the largest rocket ever built. The Starship has a combined mass of Both stages are powered by Raptor engines, the first stage utilizing 33 of them for a thrust of 72,000 kilonewtons. The second stage uses 3 Raptor engines and In 2019, SpaceX started doing test flights. The first vehicle they used was the Starhopper. One year later, the Starhopper hopped to an It demonstrated the first use of the Raptor engine in real flight. Since then, many more test flights have been done, The vehicle successfully launched, ascended to an performed a skydive descent maneuver, relit the engines fueled The flip maneuver was successful and really The rocket did crash, however. Spacecraft normally use a parachute for landing. Starship will use a unique landing maneuver, where making it incredibly challenging. The latest test flight, as of making this video, Starship SN15 has been put through successfully completing launches, maneuvers, and landings. Elon Musk also announced that SpaceX would do an orbital According to SpaceX, Back in May 2020, SpaceX was selected by NASA to transport crew between lunar orbit and the According to SpaceX, SpaceX has certainly reignited the interest in space travel, with the company's advances already spawning These include Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic both of which succeeded in launching their Surprisingly, unlike his billionaire counterparts, Despite having ample opportunity, Musk has yet to make the trip and cites his children He has said in the past that he intends to fly one day, and some SpaceX employees have hinted that he Of course, the ultimate goal of Elon Musk Sending humans to Mars will be quite a challenge, while the Moon is on average 384,000 kilometers Mars, on the other hand, is at its closest, 38.6 million That is more than 100 times as far! When asked in an interview how long it would Elon Musk replied, "...about six years from now," meaning 2026. "If we get lucky..." he continued, "maybe four years." As for why we should colonize Mars, "About half my money is intended to help problems on Earth, to ensure continuation of life in case Earth or World War 3 happens and we destroy ourselves.&quot; In order to get to that point, though, he says, As it happens, the team at SpaceX has already reduced launch thanks to their reusable rocket systems. They have performed 156 launches to date, landed 118, and reflown 95 of their rockets. To fund their ambitious project to build a Mars colony, SpaceX also started a satellite internet constellation called Starlink. This should give people worldwide access to To achieve this, SpaceX plans to send a Fun Fact To colonize Mars, SpaceX is aiming to Elon Musk is also confident that the cost of SpaceX's within two or three years. That's insanely low by space standards. For comparison, the Falcon Heavy costs $150 million per launch, while it can carry significantly less payload into space. I'm very excited to see how SpaceX will continue to push for new boundaries and hopefully land I truly hope you enjoyed this video. Please subscribe for more! Subtitles done by Emir Kahvecioglu