- Hi. In this session we're going to talk about the circle of fifths. Now the circle of fifths that helps us to It's going to tell us about that we need to know about, every single minor key, and it's going to tell us are for every key. So it's really worth it's weight in gold. As you look at a circle of fifths, you may think it all But hopefully, if we just you'll begin to see that because the only alternative is to try and remember and flats you need in every single key. And by the time you've done 12 major keys, 12 harmonic minor keys it's all a bit too much really. So the circle of fifths is accurately and quickly. And once you see how the system works, you realise that you don't have to memorise the circle of fifths, you just have to remember So bear with me while we start constructing the circle of fifths and I'll explain how it unfolds as we go. Now the first thing to say is that in fact it's not one circle, it's three circles. One of our circles is going Another circle is going to and the third circle is or which flats we need in any And we'll see why it's called the circle of fifths very soon. First of all, we're going of the three circles. And I'm going to start by putting C at the top of the circle. C for C major because C major is the key that has no sharps and no flats. So it does this. And it follows a pattern for major scales that we've learned about It goes tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone. And that's how we know that and no flats because as semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone, you realise that you don't So C major is our first major key. No sharps, no flats. What we're going to do to find a major key that comes after that is in just the same way So if I count C as number So in other words, G is a fifth above C. You might just be beginning to see why this is called the circle of fifths. And I'm going to put G over here. Now as this circle unfolds, you'll discover that we're on this side of the circle and we're going to have flat keys on this side of the circle. So C major has got no sharps. G major, which is a fifth This is how it goes and if according to the major scale pattern, you'll realise that we've tone, tone, tone, semitone And you can see on the keyboard that we've had to use a black note to make So I've used one sharp, it's F-sharp but we'll come So C major's got no sharps. G major, a fifth higher Okay, let's carry on. Let's go up another fifth from G. So G, A, B, C, D. So D major is the next key and if C major's got no sharps, G major's got one sharp, D major is going to have two sharps. If I start on D and I tone, tone, tone, semitone. You can see that I've C major's got no sharps, D major's got two sharps. Hopefully you're beginning Let's go up a fifth from D. D, E, F, G, A. So the next key is A major. And A major has three sharps. So you might have noticed there we've got these three sharps. Tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone. Okay, let's go up another A, B, C, D, E. So E major is going to have four sharps. Let's carry on a bit further. E, F, G, A, B. B major is going to have five sharps. Up we go another fifth. B, C, D, E, F. Now I'm going to tell you that this isn't F major. It's going to be F-sharp major. We'll come back later to see why that is. Let's go up another fifth for now. It doesn't matter that or anything else for now, it's F something. So let's count up a fifth from F. F, G, A, B, C. So this brings us back to C, but it can't be C major because This is going to be C-sharp major. And that's as far as we need to go because by the time you get to C-sharp, believe it or not, everything is sharp. If I start on C-sharp, and I give you a pattern that we know for the major scale, you'll find that we've E-sharp, F-sharp, G-sharp, A-sharp, B-sharp, C-sharp. So by the time everything is sharp, there's no need to go any further. So C major's got no sharps, D major's got two sharps, E major's got four sharps, F-sharp major's got six sharps and C-sharp major has got seven sharps. And by the time you've got to seven, everything's sharp. So you see we just went up in fifths, starting at C until we came back to C. Now on the left hand side we're going to discover And this time, we're going Now going down in fifths as going up in fourths. We'll have a little think So if you prefer to go up in but as it's a circle of fifths, for now we'll count down in fifths. So we're going to start with C, B, A, G, F. So F is a fifth below C. And just in case counting and you want to count up in fourths, you'll see what I mean if I go C, D, E, F. So you can count down a or you can count up a fourth and get to F. Now F major has got one flat. If I start on F and I and semitones that we I get this. Tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone. So in other words, I get F, G, A, B-flat, C, D, E, F. So F major has got one flat. Let's go down another fifth or go up a fourth if you prefer. F, E, D, C, B. So the next key we're Now again for now I'm just that this isn't B major, It couldn't really be B major because we already have B major over here. And we learnt that B B-flat major's got two flats, but don't worry, I will why it's B-flat later. Let's carry on going down in fifths. So starting with B, B, A, G, F, E. Everything from now on is So it's E-flat major. F major's got one flat. B-flat major's got two flats. E-flat major's got three flats. We did F major. B-flat with two flats. Tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone. E-flat major has got three flats. Tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone. And just in case somebody &quot;That looks as is if it's got four flats,&quot; one, two, three four, that's only because you've and E-flat at the top. So that only counts as one flat. There's one E-flat, even if we've got two of them. So those are your three flats. Okay, let's carry on going down in fifths. We're on E-flat. Let's go down another fifth. E, D, C, B, A. So that takes us onto A-flat. So A-flat major will have four flats. Let's go down another fifth. A, G, F, E, D. D-flat major will have five flats. Let's go down another fifth. D, C, B, A, G. That tells us that G-flat And if I go down another I come to C-flat major and C-flat major has got seven flats. And by the time I've got seven flats, everything is flat so I So I get C-flat, D-flat, E-flat, F-flat, G-flat, A-flat, B-flat, C-flat. And this gives me all of the major scales, all the major scales with All the major scales with And you notice that we with no sharps, no flats. C-sharp at the bottom seven sharps, and C-flat where everything is flat, seven flats. So that gives me all of the major keys. Now that's all very well, but I can now tell us that must have three sharps. One, two, three. But it's not much use if you don't know what those three sharps are. So you could go through what we've been doing on the keyboard, going tone, tone, semitone But the circle of fifths is going to show us a quicker route. So let's go into another colour now and we're going to do the outer circle. And the outer circle is which sharps or which flats And this is how it On the sharp side of the circle of fifths, just ask yourself what is the So if we were in G major, what's the seventh note? G, A, B, C, D, E, F. So in other words, G major's got one sharp and that sharp is F-sharp. Now of course, if you think about this, you don't actually have from one to seven because So G is number one and G is number eight. So if G is number eight is going to be number seven. So you only have to go to find that the seventh is F-sharp. So that tells us that you have to play an F-sharp. Let's just try that. G, A, B, C, D, E, F-sharp, G. And that puts all our tones and semitones in the right place. Okay, let's go on. What's the seventh note in D major? Well, you can count up from D. D, E, F, G, A, B, C. Or you can simply say so C must be number seven. So that must mean that it's got C-sharp. So this is how it works. D major is the key that has two sharps. The first sharp is F-sharp and now we've added C-sharp. And where this is also very useful is if you have to write a key signature, it tells you that you must in the right order. Because F-sharp is the first sharp we always put that one and we always put C-sharp And you can see how the circle of fifths tells us why that's the case. Okay, let's go on. What's the seventh note in A major? Well the seventh note in A major is G. So in other words, we need a G-sharp there and we now know that A and those three sharps are And that's the order that you F-sharp first, C-sharp Let's move on. The seventh note in E major. Well, if we're counting one back from E, it must be D. So in E major, you've got of the previous sharps. F-sharp, C-sharp, G-sharp, D-sharp. For B major, well, the seventh So B major's got five sharps. F-sharp, C-sharp, Let's just check it out. Here's B major. B, C-sharp, D-sharp, E, So you can see it's got the five sharps that we've identified The seventh note in, F-sharp So F-sharp major's got six sharps, F-sharp, C-sharp, and E-sharp. And the seventh note in And so there's C-sharp which means that every Okay, so do you remember For the major keys, we started with C and we went up in fifths To get the flat keys, To get the sharps for the key signatures on the sharp side, we simply said what's the seventh note of each of these scales so that we can add on When it comes to discovering the flats, this time we have to find The fourth degree of the scale. So seven for the sharps, Okay, well in F major, F, G, A, B. And because we're dealing with flats, we're not going to sharpen anything now. We've going to flatten it. So F major has got a What's the fourth note of B-flat major? B, C, D, E. So that must be E-flat. So B-flat major has two What's the fourth note of E-flat major? E, F, G, A. So that's A-flat. The fourth note of A-flat major. A, B, C, D. So that's D-flat. The fourth note of D-flat major. D, E, F, G. G-flat. The fourth note of G-flat major. G, A, B, C. C-flat. And the fourth note of C-flat major, C, D, E, F, gives us F-flat. So you can now see the key signatures for every single major scale. So if you want to know how in E major for example, there's E major. You can say it's got one, You can tell us what those sharps are. F-sharp, C-sharp, G-sharp and D-sharp. And you can tell us that that's the order in which those sharps have If you wanted to know for D-flat major is, you'd find D-flat over here and you'd immediately see One, two, three, four, five. And you can see what those flats are and you can see the order in the key signature. B-flat, E-flat, A-flat, D-flat, G-flat. So hopefully you're beginning to see why the circle of It's also already answering a because we said why is this F-sharp major and not F major? Well, back here we introduced F-sharp. And once you've introduced you're telling us that every F you come across is F-sharp. It never becomes F-natural again because it became F-sharp there and it stays F-sharp Because you introduce C-sharp there, then by the time we come around here, this can't be C major. It will have to be C-sharp major. And the same thing is We introduced a B-flat there, so that has to be B-flat major and so on. If you like patterns, to discover a few patterns as well. Like for example, C, G, D, A. You might also notice is the next key, B-flat major. The flat for B-flat major, E-flat major and so on. Now all we've got to how to do the minor keys. And to do the minor keys you from each of the major keys. Okay, and so we counted up in fifths for the sharp major keys. We counted down in fifths We said what's the to get the sharps? We said what's the to get the flats? Now let's count down three for the minors. So count down three from C. C, B, A. So A minor is called the They're related to each other because they share the same key signature. The key signature of A minor No sharps, no flats. If you want to write a harmonic there are things you've got to do to that. But the key signature is the same as it is for C major. If I go down three from So E minor, like G major, has E minor is the relative minor of G major. Or you could say G major is Let's whiz on and just B is a third below D, so B and they both have F-sharp and C-sharp. A third down from A is F, but Because F-sharp is there, this will have to be F-sharp minor. A third down from E is C. Remember, C-sharp here. It's going to have to be C-sharp minor. A third down from B will be G, but G-sharp is here so it's G-sharp minor. A third down from But it's going to be D-sharp A third down from C is A, but it needs to be A-sharp minor because we had A-sharp there. And we do just the same on the flat side. So a third down from F is D. A third down from B-flat is G. A third down from E-flat is C. A third down from A-flat is F. A third down from D-flat is B, but be careful because A third down from G-flat And a third down from That's the circle of fifths. I've colour coded it so so the black circle in the middle there, all your major keys. Start with C, go up in fifths for the majors and the sharps. Go down in fifths for To get the key signature seventh degree of each Fourth degree of each scale for the flats. Count down three and you So any minor has a relative major, any major has a relative minor. A-flat major and F minor, for example, both share the same key A-flat and D-flat. And I hope at the end of all that you can see how much value we have in this thing we call Good luck using that.