- Hey, guys, welcome to here on All Things Secured. Well, I wanna walk through most often for my privacy and security. Let you see how I use it, so that way you can make maybe a better, more informed decision about whether or not it's and whether or not you like So today I'm gonna start off with one of my favorite pieces of security software, 1Password. So what I've done here, as you can see on my screen, is I've created a test vault so that you can kind of see that you see won't have if you were to try to see it, or if you were to accidentally run across one of these passwords, because one of the advantages any password manager, is that, when you have a password manager helping you create passwords, they will, by nature, be more secure. They will be stronger they use more different characters than you would probably use on your own. And there are a number of different password managers out there. I'll explain to you why I prefer 1Password as we go along, but let's go ahead and just to start. So you'll notice here and what I've got is I've got that I've created online, where I could go in and I could or a secure note or credit card or all these things if I wanted to, or I can do it while I'm browsing and while I'm creating new accounts, which I may show you in a little bit. And I think that's one of between using a dedicated password manager and just using your browser Something like Keychain for Safari, or even Chrome can save And I don't really like having my browser have that kind of power over my data. I would much prefer to separate it out, but one of the advantages is that you can store So for example, you know, I've gotten here Obviously, this isn't but you can see here, I with all the data in it, and I could even store a In my real vault for 1Password, I have every single one of visas, while we live here and you wouldn't believe hey, I need a copy of your passport, or I need a copy of your visa, or, hey, I need a copy And instead of me trying to fumble around, I just go onto my phone and I look it up on the and then I can download if I needed to. So that's really convenient being able to store all of these things in an encrypted vault that not because I have my secret key. Again, we'll get to that in a moment. First, let's continue looking around here. So if you look, we've got Watchtower, I could create favorite notes that I wanted to and reference without having and then you can do categories, right? So I've got my logins, I've got my secure notes where, let's say, I kept my checking routing number, so that whenever that's asked for, I don't have to log to my bank account, I can just pull it up on You can store credit So that way, when you you can just one click and have all of that information autofill. And same with identities. You could have your address on all these things. Of course, this is gonna require the extension on Chrome Firefox which 1Password has that Passports. You can even store wireless routers. And as I've shown you right here, you can store a whole From software licenses to outdoor licenses, whatever you want. And then from that, you could even just edit each You can tag these if you wanted to. Honestly, I don't use tags that much. To be quite honest with you, I generally don't open up I generally just use the or I use the app on my phone to automatically fill in any passwords or automatically create But one of the advantages of is 1Password calls, Watchtower. Every password manager Watchtower is basically, I would say, it's just an algorithm that looks out and makes are as strong as they should be. So for example, well, it shows for my bank and for just So let's look at what this is. I can reveal right here, and, thisisapassword. Now, obviously, that's but if it were, 1Password is telling me, that's not a secure password, and they would be correct. So what I would have to change my password, and then store that again with 1Password, and they make it very easy to do that. Same with my unsecured example, where if I were to reveal Anytime that you have you are doing something very wrong. And you can actually have That's one of the things that I like, especially about the mobile app, is showing that in large type. The reason is, because the one con, or, there's a couple cons, but the one big con to is the fact that whenever on a smart TV, let's say, that I want and, let's say, that Netflix password. I don't know why you would want a super secure Netflix password, but let's just say that That makes it very difficult because there is no 1Password So unless you have Apple TV where you can take and or password copy and paste from which that's one example but I did have one time where I had a Google and it wanted my Google And we're gonna put upside the debate about whether or not I should or even an Apple one for that matter, and just say that it because my Google password and then it's at least 25 characters long, and those characters are the ones that you have to go searching for. So I literally had my phone and then I was going through It was the most painstaking process, certainly not worth it, but that is one of the hard things about using strong passwords for anything that you So if you were to be my suggestion would be to use something that's not insanely complicated, so that way, if you did have or some other device that you could do that pretty easily. All right, so let's go back in here, again, looking at unsecured. This is an unsecured website. What that means is if you look here, if the website itself is not HTTPS, then that would be the an example of a website where you wouldn't want to be sending over sensitive and all of that stuff. And so this is just telling me that I've created a password and if you ever have any of those, you either need to change it over to HTTPS and see if that works. Some websites still don't And if they don't have that then I would question whether using that particular online account. Maybe you need to, but if you do, then I would connect with that company and ask them why they're Another thing that you can do is use two-factor Now, there's a debate about whether this is a good thing or not, because two-factor authentication between different types You've got your password as one, and then you've got your as another separate that you are who you say you are. So if you put those two together, then you're in a little So here's my thoughts on this, because I do use two-factor authentication through 1Password, but only on those accounts that and sensitive for me. So what that means is, let's say, Facebook, and if any type of investment I don't put that inside of 1Password. But if, let's say, Pinterest has 2FA is an option, I really don't care that much. What I'm doing by storing it, my 2FA codes into 1Password, is basically saying, if accounts get hacked and someone gets access to my password, they won't automatically be 'cause they'll still need 2FA. Now, if someone were to or at least my vault, then maybe we've got a but like I said, it's Pinterest. I'm not keeping my 2FA codes So that's the way that I do that. If you wanted to add in 2FA, you can take, and you go down to this and you look for One-Time Password. This is the type of password. So what you can do here is You can either scan for a QR code, if they, you know, you can do that on your phone, you can even do it here on your desktop if you enabled the software or every time that you're to do a one-time passcode, right under that QR code, there's either a code, just like a 16 digit or there's something that says, would you like to manually enter it? You just click there, and And so when you do that it will automatically save that code, and you'll see it come up as a code with the six digit number All right, and finally, if you were to have any Watchtowers gonna let you know, if there are any compromised websites. So any websites that have had a hack since you've changed your password, then they're gonna let you So that's what the software itself, at least on the desktop, looks like. Let's go ahead and open up my browser and see how that works with the extension. Now, the extension is once you've subscribed to 1Password. In your account, they'll to the apps, everything And you just sign into that and your master password. Now, when you first create you'll be asked to That master password needs that you have, that you can remember, without having to write it down anywhere. Because that's the point here, is that it's not gonna be written down, it's gonna be something that so that when you use it, that master password unlocks So if I were to go in and want I've got this right here, and I can go in and autofill. Or if I were to have clicked in here, it would show as an option, and now I can just click sign in. The same happens if I wanted I could ask 1Password to and then save that for my Netflix account, even if I already had So this browser extension is something that I use all the time. It works especially well on, you know, just the major browsers and there haven't been any problems for me in being able to auto fill all the stuff that I wanna auto fill, whether that's credit cards, addresses, and definitely all of my for when I log in. You can also jump in if you and access your passwords without having to So for example, if you had in a place where you or you didn't have your you had to use a public computer, this isn't advisable, but in an emergency situation, you could go in and You would, again, have to for the account that you have, and then you would gain access to that. So now you see, I've got all the vaults. I've this vault, my private vault, my test vault and my shared vault. I'm gonna stop here for just a moment and explain to you the because I have the family plan. This is something I really They kind of pioneered the family plan, or at least they did, in my opinion, when I was looking through it. It was something that didn't in the password manager but now everybody seems where I have my wife on 1Password as well, and I'm trying to get I'm trying to get everybody so that way it makes it So we share our Netflix account, and so I don't keep my I keep it in my shared. I keep our banking login in And if I wanted to, I could create a different shared one that's for my whole family, and I can share. So that ability to be able without necessarily worrying about whether or not my or my wife is using a less secure password than I would want her to, we can share that, and I don't have to worry about We share that vault, so when she logs in and needs even if I've changed that password, it changes for her when she Does that make sense? It's really convenient and something that I really Okay, two more things and then show you my So one of the things about 1Password is just in looking ahead and finding out what kind of partnerships and integrations they can have that would One of them being privacy.com. You've heard me talk about and it's something that You can actually sign up. This is obviously only So if you're watching this right now and you're outside of the U.S., you can kind of disregard If you're in the U.S., and you're a U.S. resident, you can sign up for privacy.com and then mask your credit cards by just creating new ones And with the free version, I think, 10 different And 1Password, if you integrate with my privacy.com account, will automatically create virtual credit cards the moment that you want to check out. So, let's say, you're trying to check out on Amazon or Walmart or something, and it asks for a credit card, you can create a new credit and maybe even one time use only, so that way, once that for Amazon or Walmart, it And you could even close it that moment after you use the credit card, and there wouldn't be any problems. In that way, you're securing by not giving out your You're giving out a virtual one that you have more control over. It doesn't require you and ask them to send which could take weeks, it's something where you and just close it immediately or limit how much can be So I really love the fact that they have that They've also integrated with Fastmail to allow you to mask emails. So what that means is, if you're signing up for a new service and you don't wanna give them well, then you could There are a lot of different services that allow you to do that. StartMail is a private email that gives you unlimited aliases. But as far as 1Password's concerned, they have this integration with Fastmail that allows you to create as you're going. The only downside to that, that I didn't really appreciate is there really isn't so you have to pay for and I just wasn't really into it. So I decided, you know, I tried it out, and I decided wasn't something that to continue using, but I do like that these new partnerships that are tangentially whenever we're logging Masking our email address, masking our virtual credit cards. So that's something that's really cool that you won't find and all these other password managers, and one of the reasons my recommended password manager, and they don't pay me to say that. The downsides to using 1Password, that I'll mention for just a moment before we dive into my mobile device, is that there is no live chat support. You can go in and you can ask them, they've got a forum, a community forum where you can email, but there is no live chat. So if you have an immediate problem or an immediate question, or you can't get into your account, they've got tons of just that could get you but if you do have a unique situation where you're just having they won't have live even if you're paying subscriber. Speaking of paying, they so, whereas you've got a lot of these other password managers that give you a free version, 1Password doesn't do that. They just give you, at least right now, as I'm recording this, Now, I understand that a lot of these others that it is limited. Usually they'll limit the that you can use to like 50. I've got 450. You probably have more than a hundred, whether you realize it or not. So it's more of a freemium thing where they're just trying so that they can upgrade so you're gonna pay for it anyway. The 14-day free trial for 1Password gives you access to the whole thing so that you can upload as many. You can take an export from your Chrome browser or from Keychain and import it into 1Password and use all of your online or, you know, some of the restrict you from being able You can use it on your computer, but you can't use it on And that's, again, it's just one of those limitations And really, you should pay, right? This is a piece of software, somebody has to develop it, somebody has to keep this stuff up with all of the different upgrades and OS and all that stuff. So, I mean, we're not talking If you are really desperate then maybe 1Password isn't But for goodness sakes, Go ahead and just sign up All right, let's go ahead on my mobile device, right? This is gonna look the same, whether you are on iOS for an iPhone, or whether you're on Android, or whether you're on an it's all gonna look the same. But I can use my master password, or after I've already signed I can set up for Face ID, and so that way I don't and type in my master and it also keeps it a little bit secure from anybody that maybe, let's say, takes my phone tries to get all access to my vaults here. So again, we've got all this stuff. I'm gonna go ahead and which again, shows all of these, where I can log in, I can This is a test password. That's the large text, or I can have it revealed just in regular, plain text right here. You can tag it. If you were to update, this is something very interesting, and this has happened to me before. You'll notice here that we've If you update, let's say, and something just didn't go right, they still have record of if you need to use it. And I've had to use it before. That has happened where and I had to tell them in order to gain access to my account, and thankfully 1Password had Again, you also have access to passports, to your wireless routers that you could share if you needed to, and then to secure notes that you can keep and update as you wanted to. And anything that I do on my phone is gonna update on my computer as well and any other device So the great thing about doing that is, if I go into my settings, and then I set up, let's say, oops, sorry, and, let's say, I set up a password, autofill passwords. So you're looking for and you can set up which application will autofill passwords. In this case, obviously, More than likely before it's gonna default to iCloud Keychain, or if you were to have Dashlane or others or something like that, or just Firefox, you could but I'm going to use 1Password. And so what that means, if I want to log into Netflix, what it's gonna ask me to do is it's gonna ask me to sign in. So when I click here, you're gonna see, I've got this passwords right above my keyboard. So when I click that, it's and then I can click test email, and it's gonna autofill all that. Look at that. So much easier. You don't have to type anything in. It makes logging into your accounts on your mobile devices so much faster and very easy and convenient to do. So now you're not pulling out that pad and trying to remember exactly you're just taking and having it autofill using your Face ID as the reason, or the way that you All right. So that's how you use it on your phone. There are obviously many other things that we could go over there, but one thing I did wanna share, and it's a question that which is, whoa, I'm keeping in one place, isn't that insecure? Like, isn't that a bad idea? And there are two things First of all, the number one thing that you need to understand is that, when you're using a password manager, this is true, not just for 1Password, but for most all the password you're using what's known as a secret key, zero knowledge encryption. So what that means is, you are encrypting your vault and then that vault gets uploaded to, let's say, 1Password servers, and that's how they sync but you alone have your secret key that they give you whenever 1Password does not store that secret key so that even if someone were to hack in to 1Password servers, they don't have the ability. 1Password, even if someone were to come in and just, at gunpoint, tell somebody in the so and so's password vault, they literally cannot do it because they don't have your secret key. So that secret key, that's different from but both of those together so that as it's being into your different devices, you don't have to worry or at least giving over to somebody that may be hacking 1Password. So the idea of, what if That shouldn't worry you, because if they get hacked, which they haven't, and I don't see why they would, it wouldn't be a problem because they don't have your secret key, and that secret key is what really gives access to that vault. The second thing I would say is this, I've done a video called, about what I call, a Other people refer to it What it means is this, whenever I store a password hear me clearly, this but for my most sensitive accounts, I don't store the actual All right, so what does that mean? All right, so for my banking, for example, I don't store my actual password. I have 1Password create a strong password of about 16 characters, and then after I create that, have them autofill it and save it, I add an additional four to 10 characters that only I know. I call it a double blind password because I don't know the first half, and my password manager, 1Password, doesn't know the second so when you combine those two together, that gives me access to my account, but if someone were to hack and try to log in, if they actually hacked and you tried to log into my bank, you would get an error because the password that's is not my actual password. You would now have to in order to get into that. Again, this is only for my most secure. So my financial accounts, my email, I even do it for Facebook because there seems to be, nowadays, it's just a lot harder hacking your Facebook account. And then, of course, my bank, that kind of fits in with any All of those, I use a And if you wanna learn more about that, go ahead and watch the video to see more about what I'm talking about. Okay, so that is my, kind of, and walk through of the software. I've done a lot more related you can look up those videos, but this is the most up to date. If you have any questions whatsoever, go ahead and leave those I'll do my best to answer And if you decide to use 1Password, you could support this by using my affiliate link that you can see probably right here, as well as in the description Thanks so much for taking time, and have a great day.