In the countryside, the villagers have to wait essential links They collect the goods so that they can sell the fruit and bring back to their villages Mayembo visits twice a week His truck is filled to the brim. However, he must not hang around, because of highway bandits. Bong surrenders from the Island of Panay in the Philippines. His jeepney was especially to pace and above all so as not to break up and their owners. Both have only one objective: But the risk is very real including driving on potholed roads We are in Congo, on national road number one Mayembo's truck collected in the villages He is a driver because he always fills his truck well My boss pays me well There are drivers Me, I earn 150,000, and with each journey, This is the risk premium. A well-deserved hazard bonus. There are many dangers on the road, and in particular the rebels right on this road The rebels are coming To catch the vehicle, They are looking for money, They hit us a lot, and they take money. Congo emerges from civil war and the country is still So, to limit the risk of attack, curfew time Mayembo must not hang around. Difficult for him to combine and smooth steering His priority is to take and avoid incidents at all costs. It's the entire economy of the region So he must not fail In his truck, and their harvest for the week. We are in the truck, eggplants, at the Boureau market. That's cassava, and that's oranges. Those are bananas. Farmers on board directly into the dumpster, We leave the village and sell our products there. Then we'll go home. Customers are used to and have no other choice To give yourself courage, nothing better [audio in Lingala] The convoy is no longer from the police barrier. If he doesn't come by before 6 p.m., he will be obliged There, we are in Inkala, the police must first Mayembo arrived at the dam in time. A dam that is also a toll because here, the drivers It is the rule We arrived at our destination, Mayembo succeeded in his journey without difficulty, I'm really very happy. I arrived safely in Brazzaville, I am really happy. There, I finished. Mayembo's work and it's the truck crew and in particular to help Come on, go see mom. OK. Back home for Mayembo. He brings back a pack of cassava to his wife, bought in the countryside it's one of the advantages of the job. Tonight he will be well received. The crew will stay up all night until the next morning. In the Phillippines, It's a converted jeep. We use it as a collective taxi, in rural areas. Robust and powerful, so as not to bend Jeepney transportation Sometimes passengers because there are too many goods. That's why Even if you tell them not to come up, We are on the Island of Panay, Farmers have to cross in order to sell their products. This is Junwen Kagalita, nicknamed Bong, specially designed and to support colossal loads. Bong drives the only truck who can lead them We are already well above It's normal for us, the more we charge, But the more Bong loads his truck, According to our permit, we cannot transport Bong drives a jeepney but the number of passengers There are around 50 passengers, 50 passengers who depend and the reliability of his truck. That's why They must be strong, Driving on this type of road Obviously, you have to hold the steering wheel well. When I feel I grip it tightly Bong keeps his eyes on the road, I have to make sure and that the passengers do not fall. That's my concern, I have to make sure they are seated Bong knows the road well and he makes the journey between Bulwang sometimes several times a day, but he remains vigilant at all times. The 2013 typhoon caused heavy damage Travel I have to stay focused I also have to be attentive He really shouldn't stop It is possible that the jeepney He would start to move backwards if such a thing happened, Everything would happen very quickly. All we would have to do is pray At the slightest false movement, Bong knows that he and these passengers We cannot leave any Here on these mountain roads, you need to have experience Bong comes to a difficult point. The road is sloping and there is a river He asks the passengers to get off You must always stay I'm the one responsible The passengers walk without complaint. They are used to it and know Here, the mountain roads The next morning, it's the excitement and Dalvin, the mechanic's assistant, There now, we are in the process Afterwards, we're going to go to the garage. Fruit and vegetable sales It's 10 a.m., time for Mayembo He makes sure that everything before going to park But before starting, Mom, sorry. I'm going to open the hood to check Otherwise, I will not start the medium. The means is the name because without him, Since he didn't give me a rag, on his clothes, Dalvin didn't take a rag. He doesn't really because he did not leave but Mayembo doesn't want to know that. Now it is good, There I can start the medium. He didn't give me a rag How are you. It's okay, it's going very well. All the lights are green, He knows he has to cherish his truck I can't speed up, I have to wait, it needs to be greased Head to the garage. Usually Mayembo, before going there, but not today. We wash this here. Today we don't want to wash it, Mayembo must wait two days because he gave credit They haven't paid yet. They have to pay before washing the means. Mayembo has two days of rest ahead of him So he will benefit There, I take my bananas. That's my wife, They are my two sons. Good morning. That's my little brother. Good morning. My mother is there, with my father. At Mayembo, three generations Being a driver is a privilege, and his profession, They are my parents. I am very proud of my son because he drives well, He's never had an accident, he's strong. Even his friends say it, he has just started The profession comes from his father. If the father drives well, The accident for a driver and his family because when they take place, Mayembo knows it well, The most dangerous, When it bursts, the truck may fall. So you have to drive slowly. I already saw, in the Bangou forest, The tire burst. The way fell with people. There was no death, Back on the Island of Panay, Luckily it didn't rain today. The rising waters in this corner of the country It happens that trucks or, worse, carried away by the current. It's everyday I already stayed The passengers get back on board the truck. Other travelers and make a place for themselves, Bong and his assistants on the vehicle Tell them not to Those at the back are fine, but the children in the center Go to the back, for now. Little one, be careful, step back, otherwise your head Do you want to have your head cut off? You have to walk between five and six hours These are green onions. The rest is probably We're going to sell them at the market. Bong knows best I grow cabbage It's not just our vegetables Bong then makes sure and transport costs From Kamandag to Leon, For the merchandise, A commodity that brings in big profits for Bong, since each passenger We will harvest today 20% must be deducted for maintenance so 800 pesos, there will be 3,200 left. I will earn around 640 pesos. EUR12 for 12 hours of work but for Bong, it represents double Bong's overloaded truck arrives Nothing fell, They come there to sell radishes, It's time to do business it's thanks to Bong. Bong's assistants help passengers We all depend on him. He brings our merchandise here, Night falls on Leon. Bong has to get back home. He will have to ride The whole team will rest. Tomorrow they will have to again with a truck that is way too heavy. Even though the day went well, that this will be the case for the next trip and Bong knows that. Return to Boureau market. Mayembo's crew but so as not to leave empty, they load all the city dwellers' packages The packages are recorded in the notebook. We note the number, the name of the village and where will the package go down Mayembo's truck makes Starting with the banking service. There he sent his money It will cost 5% of the total amount All kinds of packages it goes from a simple postal package But no problem here, The packages are scrupulously noted, and transport prices. Parcels that weigh less, There are packages that are in bulk Small packages that are heavier Where is the scale? It's imaginable. There is no scale? We don't have a scale. 10 hours, it's time for Mayembo This time Dalvin had time I've already checked the trucks. Everything in the vehicle, the wheels, the transmission, Now we're leaving. This morning, no waste of time. Mayembo and his crew have around ten Barely out of town, these are truck wrecks It broke down. I won't break down on the road. Never. What are you going to do ? We're going to check the engine oil. But, barely arrived on the track, and he finally He hears an abnormal whistling sound. We saw a leak. I think oil is leaking from the engine. The breather is leaking. It's through this room The leak is significant is very high. I need to call the boss first. Hello, boss? [audio in Lingala] Yes sir. What does the boss say? He says we have to turn around, We need to unload the packages. We're going to put this in another vehicle. After U.S, Mayembo is completely disappointed. Him, one of the best finds himself stuck and its passengers Now we have to find another truck and take him safely to his place. He doesn't answer the phone. I must insist. While waiting to find a solution, Dalvin is gaining some strength. It's 4:30 a.m. It's time for Bong Two hours separate them from Bulwang. This is where they can bring up I love driving in the mountains. The landscapes are superb, all we see is green, We also see magnificent rice fields and plantations There is rice and radish. You see, it grows very well. These radishes are Bong The road to get there is perilous Jeepneys abound in the Philippines, It has been modified to mountain roads Bong wants to introduce us to Jon Jon, He is the owner of the trucks They conceived as a family to transform their vehicles. We have three vehicles We obtain and we put it all together here. My brother is very resourceful. He makes the structure At the moment, we are working To build a jeepney, All material used Custom trucks We use cardboard It's not from yesterday He knows them I grew up here, I first worked as an assistant. The driver left us The first jeepney I drove was designed to only be used in town. This type of jeepney He's a little different The mechanics of city jeepneys not related to Bong knows that nothing should be overlooked. We first searched for the manufacture, parts that can endure First of all, a suitable suspension. The leaf springs are very thick. A versatile transmission. We have high speed no matter the degree of overload. A robust structure. Here we reinforced the roof to support Finally, a system Here is the water tank, it prevents the jeepney from overheating when we travel All Bong has to do is open the valve It's a technique made in the Philippines. Filipinos are very resourceful. Filipinos are very efficient Which seems to be less the case On the side of the road, and still haven't found He nevertheless decides to return Yesterday we did everything but it's hard to watch We're going to go back there. [audio in Lingala] Mayembo has just come across He is used to taking In two minutes, the arrangement is complete It's Metan, the controller of Mayembo, He will ensure that registered packages It's good ! Joseph is the driver of the new convoy. Like Mayembo, and arrive as soon as possible because tomorrow is going to be a long day. We are and visibility is very poor We are blinded by the dust, The dust comes in You have to make an effort to get through. Joseph wants to double, doesn't intend to make an effort. He must not miss First stop, Joseph runs to the hut I wash them to hold the steering wheel well. My hands are all clean. When I hold the steering wheel, Before, sweaty hands would slip. Hands sliding on the steering wheel especially on delicate passages. For Joseph, He must arrive before dark if he wants So, he has his little tricks To have a little strength, I do this with the last finger It's good. If I do it, it's to open my eyes. I feel tired, You have to take traditional tobacco. Night falls on the Pool region Now it's dark. These are my friends. Last stop a good opportunity to relax It's okay, I led people well, We leave for our destination. It's deep that Joseph, the balm in the heart, Is that it, Joseph? It is far. Here in this last village tradition is celebrating So Joseph has no other choice The villagers form a circle inside which and invites you to take your place Joseph is not ready to go to bed. In the Philippines, it's already morning and it's time Bong is accompanied by three cargador, assistants who help it load in addition to managing passengers. Next to me I have my cargador, I am his son's godfather, Most cargadors are young This is Pilip Cabanas, he is manly enough merchandise, These are the onions We try to distribute them To be a cargador, Cargador lifts every day The bags weigh 50 or 60 kilos. We transport around forty per day. It takes two people and another Bong also gets his hands dirty, We will end up running out of steam. After a day like this, Bong must stop along the way We just told him It's one of our trucks. Marlon, one of our drivers has a little problem but he will be able to load the goods After delivering your goods, he will go and have it repaired It's Bong The Kagalita brothers I'm proud because we're the only ones Reputation is something He must bring to start I'm really lucky. In six years, it's when one of our cargadors in the rope with which Bong knows he's never and which still remains In Congo, it's Joseph's turn Early morning, women prepare breakfast In the meantime, difficult awakening for Joseph. I have aches and pains. The departure of the truck Everyone finishes their preparations Today the crew knows So, we take We must add the stake, because the merchandise There is nothing yet, We install the few goods, It's an 11 hour drive. Not one more, or they'll be blocked So, Shakari All early in the morning Speed is good Late morning, The prices charged differ from those of Mayembo, It's 2,500 per bag of cassava. 3,000. No, do it at 2,500. You, why 3,000? We're not going to give you It's cassava like any other. He is whole. 3,000 francs. No, there are five packets of raw cassava. Why are you doing this? Come on, 2,500, not 3,000! Okay, 2,500. The controller gives in, Time is money. Last stop before the police station, but it is the most important. Live animals, crates of beer, Overloading the truck The risk of accident is very high. It's a permanent danger therefore, there must be the hold It is with a simple wooden box A wedge that must support and goods. Barely the last bolt tightened, The wooden block seems to be holding. There is rather interest, and the truck forces from all sides. It's at the last minute and arrives in Brazzaville at nightfall. I prayed to get to Brazzaville. God made It's thanks to God. Without him, I wouldn't have gotten here. Is it tobacco? It is thanks to God, that Joseph arrived He's gonna be able to That's solidarity in Congo. Return to the Philippines. Bong must now the driver broke down. He has to take his route. It was a long day but Bong has no choice, Bong's truck is a little less loaded, Watch the road. Marlon's route is difficult Bong's experience is put to the test, When we drive around here, and keep a constant speed. You have to get used to it to avoid accidents. The slightest mistake Bong had better be careful. It's his career as a driver If we have an accident, our name will be found If the accident is significant, we can even be accused No way for Bong Prevention is better than cure. We have to constantly check our jeepney Bong's efforts He is a respected driver A privileged relationship Bong is the one we do business with. We always travel aboard his jeepney, No matter what merchandise we have, Bong does his job No danger can and to lead its travelers to safety. Farmers know that they earn their living and that the drivers are neither more I like modifying jeepneys, and help the people here. Without me, it would cost them a lot Without our jeepneys, Bong knows he will have to continue but the attention he pays and the energy he deploys assure him of being able to come close to danger Mayembo, for his part, and manage road hazards But his prudence and his mastery Bong and Mayembo are two drivers However, they have take care at all costs