In the early hours of a September morning, it's way towards London, carrying 2 tonnes It may well have reached its destination, Military Home Defence had created. A network of radar stations, all feeding into information was ratified and mapped on a gigantic It was from this room in Bentley Prior that were made. This was a frantic, but precise procedure. Every minute that passed was a crucial minute Vital time needed to gain altitude to meet This groundbreaking air defence network allowed altitude, within 10 minutes of the first sign This would not have been possible without to meet their foes. The Spitfire is the icon of the Battle of metres) per minute, taking them, at minimum, The Spitfire was a nimple interceptor. A plane that could rapidly gain altitude, To do this it needed to be powerful, manoeuvrable, Some of the greatest engineers of World War came up with changed the course of the war. This is the insane engineering of the Spitfire. Despite its patriotic fame, the groundbreaking to comprehend today. In a world where we are long accustomed to despite its undeniable elegance, may seem However, when the spitfire first swept through aircraft like the Gloster Gauntlet and the Biplanes were the norm for fighters of this The stacked wings increased the lift the aircraft and better able to withstand the g-forces But they generated a lot of drag. The Spitfire was made possible by new powerful aluminium alloys, freeing the Spitfire's setting out to create a plane capable of out-running Turn performance is essentially measured by A tighter turn radius gives a fighter aircraft To understand what effects the radius of this turns. To begin a turn an aircraft will roll in the aircraft bank angle. This splits the lift the plane is generating that causes the plane to turn and the vertical A steeper bank angle will increase the horizontal stealing lift from the vertical components. This vertical component needs to equal the lose altitude. To compensate for that the pilot will deflect lift, but this increases drag. This increase in drag means the pilot will speed. The maximum turn possible that won't result sustained turn performance, and it's affected power available from the engine, and the design To excel in battle the Spitfire needed the best to give it just that. RJ Mitchell had plenty of experience in designing the Supermarine S.5 that won Schneider Trophy There was some deliberation on the shape the designs, like this one from 1934, showing wing it eventually took. This would have been vastly easier to manufacture, on performance. In particular, lift distribution, and the to minimise induced drag. Induced drag occurs when high pressure air low pressure air above the wing, over the This creates a vortice at the wing tip that This elliptical lift distribution minimises but RJ Mitchell is quoted in Alfred Price's "I don't give a bugger whether it's elliptical The reduction in induced drag is often cited when in actuality it barely made a dent in which was not worth the added difficulty in [2] The real benefits of the elliptical wing came length. Take a straight tapered wing. Its chord, the width of the wing, steadily Steadily reducing the area near the fuselage The curve of the ellipse on the other hand fuselage and then drops off more rapidly towards the wing to fit the landing gear, guns, hydraulics, The room provided to fit a strong, but lightweight Spitfire to take daring turns without worry The engineers of the Spitfire had a delicate Increasing the strength of a wing often requires turn performance, climb performance and increases The Spitfire's wing is not perfectly elliptical, than the leading edge. This was done primarily for structural reasons. The main structural support of the wing is perfectly along the quarter chord of the Spitfires The quarter chord is located, as its name width of the wing. It is the aerodynamic centre of the wing, If the wing was perfectly elliptical it would the quarter chord and the overall lift force instead of directly over it. This would create a twisting motion on the and weight. This is why the trailing edge curves in as to be in line with the wing spar. Much was done to minimise the weight of these The bending force the wing needs to resist spar can reduce in strength and weight through Manufacturing this kind of shape was not particularly Today we can manufacture single parts to shapes using CNC milling machines. To allow the strength of the wing spar to square extrusions. The upper and lower spar booms were constructed which were cut and placed inside of each other This wing was an engineering masterpiece that When we compare the Spitfire to the BF109, we can start to make some real deductions The wing area of the Spit is noticeably larger. This affects a performance metric called wing Which is simply the total mass of the aircraft This affects the turning radius of the aircraft. A heavy aircraft with small wings will have have a large turning radius. The BF109's wings were much smaller and BF109 had a larger turning radius than the While the space afforded by the Spitfire's inside the wing, or as later variants featured, 2 larger 20 all mounted inside the wing, and outside the propellor arc, which reduced A luxury the BF109 did not have. The engineers at Messerschmitt were forced armament. Two machine guns mounted above the engine an interrupter gear timing the triggering A cannon could be fitted behind the engine, ran through the inverted V-12 engine and through Later variants attempted to correct the disparity wings, but there wasn't enough room for a shoot from the fuselage to the guns. This wasn't a reliable mechanism. Some variants included gun pods mounted below handling. The Spitfire's primary role was an interceptor. To do this it needed a powerful engine and The most important factor for climb rate is Creating a powerful engine that could fit best minds in Britain. The Merlin engine of the Spitfire went through goal to squeeze more and more power out of Displacement meaning the volume of the cylinder The displacement of an engine has a huge effect Power is derived from fuel burning to create to do work. To increase power we need to increase the just add more fuel without adding more air There is an optimum air fuel ratio, about 12 parts air to 1 part fuel. This gets even more complicated for aircraft air pressure decreases as we climb. Air pressure drops by half at 5,500 metres. Which would half the oxygen available to burn To combat this the Merlin featured a supercharger Air began its journey into the Merlin engine the fuselage. From here it first passes the carburetor where The Spitfire utilised a float carburetor. Float carburetors use, as the name would suggest, The float works similarly to the float in and controlling a valve to keep it at the This became an issue for the Spitfire when out in a negative g manoeuvre. A negative g manoeuvre would force the float with too much fuel. The BF109 engine utilised direct fuel injection, plungers, 1 for each cylinder, cams to time the engine. A more complicated solution that allowed German pursuit, while Spitfire pilots needed extra ensured the dive was made in positive g, giving [3] After passing this carburettor the air entered was compressed before entering the piston. Increasing the power output of the engine. This system helped the Spitfire squeeze out rivalling the power of the 34 litre DB 601 of Britain. However, early Merlin engines featured a single The speed of the supercharger being determined This forced the engineers to design the supercharger ratio for a particular altitude. We can see this when looking at power curves The early Merlin III reached peak power around You may notice that power output is actually pressure being higher here. That's also a result of the supercharger engine from being over pressured there was opened as the plane gained altitude. While the Spitfire had excellent power at the Battle of Britain had superior power at Because they featured an ingenious device speed. Their supercharger was placed at a 90 degree a fluid coupling. Which uses a fluid to transfer power from The input shaft causes a fluid inside the a pump, which in turn causes a turbine attached This method of power transmission allowed because the amount of oil inside the coupling increased the amount of oil inside the coupling [4] This prevented the supercharger from overpressuring power at lower altitudes. This gave the BF 109 E variant, which was an edge over the Spitfire. While the Spitfire could out turn the 109, which allowed the 109 to sustain a climbing British engineers were well aware of this began on a two stage, two speed supercharger This allowed the supercharger to operate at also introduced a second impeller which increased performance. This increased compression caused an increase affect engine efficiency, and so an intercooler air before entering the piston. This intercooler removed 33% of the heat added Removing more heat would have been beneficial To remove more heat, the plane needed a larger a larger radiator would result in more drag, The radiator design was in fact one of the so much power out of its smaller Merlin engine. German engineers had noted how much smaller why. In one meeting between the chiefs of Germany's the Spitfires radiators were half the size development explained to an indignant government would require higher coolant pressure which The British had developed high pressure high speed racing engines to compete in races like The Germans were prohibited from participating and so were left behind in the development Increasing the pressure of the coolant allowed of the coolant without it boiling. An increased temperature difference between the rate heat could radiate away from the to be much smaller. This did require the radiators to be stronger more than made up for the increased weight. The BF109 and Spitfire were formidable foes life and death more often than not came down advantages the British had in fighting over The Battle of Britain was won on small margins they could to give the Spitfire an edge in But it and the much more numerous Hawker Hurricane systems and procedures on the ground that day. Radar, data processing, mapping, chain of ratings all played a role in winning the battle Original series "The Battle of Britain". Many of the animated sets, including the custom you saw in this video were created for that can expect from all our Nebula Original series. There are currently 4 episodes available for along with our 7 part Logistics of D-Day series. Or you could watch my favourite recent Original of Wake Island, a tiny remote island in the in aviation and world war 2. If you want to support this channel, watch like this, and get to watch incredible exclusive Join Nebula now, by signing up for the CuriosityStream 14.79 for an entire year membership giving massive catalogue of educational and entertaining