Five Mongol envoys knelt on the beach at Kamakura Their time had come, and a clear target for it was painless. They gazed out over the deep blue of the Pacific How they wished their last sight could have steppe breeze. Their hearts were calm as the blades descended They would be revenged. This execution of ambassadors was how Hojo government - and ruler of Japan, gave his of China, Son of Heaven, Great Khan of the He would not submit. Not now. Not ever. Mt. Fuji's shining peak loomed over the headless Soon after, Kublai sent another five men. This time there would be no negotiations. They came to announce one thing. Invasion. It would be the biggest seaborne attack the The new envoys met the same end, but were blessed shadow. Their blood stained the western beaches where a year before. The first invasion had come in November 1274. Great Korean ships replete with Mongol battle - still-living Japanese islanders from the nailed, screaming hideously, to the prows. The armada, stretching to the horizon, obscured northern Kyushu. Tight ranks of soldiers descended from the shields held high, up on to the beach. This phalanx warfare was unfamiliar to the They were confused. When were they supposed to shout their challenge? To whom? How would they know if opponents were of appropriate One of the defenders made up his mind, lifted and let fly. Hojo Tokimune, insecure in his recent tenure, woes, lay in his concubine's lap as she His realm was an ancient one, even if the turned recent usurpers of the strings of national The Mongol threat focused his mind, the first known. For the first time in his young life he wondered Tokimune became drowsy, and slipped into a He dreamed slowly, vividly, and fitfully of been, back into the mists of forgotten time. Hereupon, regretting the errors in the old in the former chronicles, Her Highness Empress moon of the 4th year of Wado (November 3, record the old words, and dutifully to lift ... I, Yasumaro, with true trembling and true Court Noble, Futo no Yasumaro, Upper Division, paused in his writing, shifted his knees ever a little more comfortable, dipped his fine his great endeavor. A work to last for all time. Yasumaro went on to render the fables, legends, as fact. Creating a divine fable to legitimize, and masters, and the right of his people, the peoples of the land we now know as Japan. He described how Izanagi and Izanami first and trees with drops of water from a coral Then they begat the Lord of the universe the divine children. She sent her Grandson, Ninigi no Mikoto to But it was not only Ningi who descended to uncouth and brash, was banished from heaven While Susa-no-o's people conquered and flourished Ningi's people also prospered, and multiplied Within three generations they had grown powerful battling foes to establish a new power base. Its names were myriad, but most know it as Yamatai was ruled over by an Emperor, Jimmu. The first of a line that was to last forever. Of course, it was probably not quite as Yasumaro For Yasumaro to serve a deity, the Imperial And so, Yasumaro wove the myriad myths of in doing so 'discovered,' a royal lineage The Amaterasu of his story was probably based queen Himiko. Susa-no-o,[a] her brother, and his fight with as much as a heavenly battle. His was a work of propaganda, akin to the remembered myth, heroic legend, and outright Caesar in Rome or The Secret History of the The original settlers of Japan, however, came They first crossed land bridges from the Asian and continued to arrive in small groups from The population was small, perhaps 160,000 Jomon after the rope patterns they left on life of hunting and gathering the plentiful They did not know of ... war ... until a new These were the people whose myths Yasumaro The 'many-fenced palace' of the God of new and acquisitive, ambitious people, who resource - the rice field. These are known as the Yayoi peoples, and The ancient Chinese Kingdom of Wu, where Shanghai to be where their ancestors came from. Refugees from that kingdom, which was destroyed to have migrated to Japan. Descriptions of the Wu and the 'Wo,' as their tattoos and warlike nature certainly The archaeological and DNA record shows that came from the north, Siberia, through Mongolia across the seas. Some modern research also suggests that material, on Java and other parts of South East Asia What is certain is that the Yayoi peoples to migrate to the Japanese isles. Sometime in the first few centuries of the continent, a massive wave of people came from wealth, and knowledge to improve just about Some became nobles, had their names recorded, Place and family names connecting modern Japan this day, but the exact details of early Japan and cultural mists of time. Which leaves us with the mystery of just who The country formerly had a man as ruler. For some seventy or eighty years after that Thereupon the people agreed upon a woman for Her name was Himiko. She occupied herself with magic and sorcery, Though mature in age, she remained unmarried. She had a younger brother who assisted her After she became the ruler, there were few She had one thousand women as attendants, She resided in a palace surrounded by towers of constant vigilance. When Himiko passed away, a great mound was Over a hundred male and female attendants Kofun. across Japan. They vary in shape and size, but the 'classic' The longest is over 400 metres. The burial chambers are of stone. Un-looted ones have been found to be adorned useful accessories for the afterlife. The pre-historic, semi-legendary age recorded of the Three Kingdoms,' not only told of the of spells to pacify the realm, and an influx It saw the dawn of these massive megalithic Despite her pure white robe of mulberry fiber, a shiver of pure ice rent the girl's heart place. But she steeled herself, the magatama charms danced towards her destiny as a heavenly lady of Yamatai, Queen of Wa, Friend of Wei Dynasty Himiko. Despite her fear and misgivings, the young this duty. There never would be another such as her dead Himiko had woven a spell over Yamatai, with The sorcery had wrought peace where once there had been none. The people loved her, yet none could set their served her were ignorant of her face. The Queen would admit only onfe person to This man served her food and wine, and communicated Himiko's most astonishing achievement had China with gifts of slaves, and the highly land was justly famous. In return, treasures, the likes of which had Beads, bronze mirrors, and most prized of seal pronouncing her 'Friend and Ally of Himiko and her chief envoys were symbolically Chinese military. Her magic had extended across the oceans, her his greatest honour. With China's recognition, all bowed before islands. But, as is the way of things, the Great Queen raised a great mound, a kofun, over her burial 100 youths and maidens were selected to serve shivering in the summer evening heat was one. She danced on past the crackling flames into afterlife. Himiko and her serving-maidens are believed in Nara Prefecture. "Assassination and murder followed; more A relative of Himiko named Iyo, a girl of restored. (Zhang) Zheng, an ambassador from Wei, issued the ruler." This set a pattern in Japan. Throughout ancient times, women's status the chronicles. Some like Empress Jingu, beat the drums of Iyo in fostering a land at peace with itself. This doctrine is amongst all doctrines the and hard to comprehend. Even the Duke of Zhou and Confucius could This doctrine can create religious merit and and so lead on to a full appreciation of the Every prayer is fulfilled and naught is wanting. The people who made the Japanese islands their ancestors had come from, nor about the Gods to become the Gods of the religion we now Long before the myths of Amaterasu and her breathing religion of nature spirits. Mountains, rivers, trees, stones, fire, water. But, the small kingdoms of the Japanese isles on the Korean Peninsula, trading, exchanging, Embassies were exchanged, noble and royal and missionaries sent. There was a relationship of deep respect, King Seong of Baekje, a kingdom in the western the peace of the Buddha with Emperor Kinmei, no Iname, stroked his beard and smiled behind from Korea. His time had come at last. The long years of scheming with his Korean court had resulted at last in this mission's It seemed sudden, heaven-sent, but it was Soga and his family had spent years, perhaps This was not the first time Buddha's teachings people had been preached to by monks in generations have come from as far away as the land of But such common bare-foot migrant priests interest. Soga no Iname's family had been aware, perhaps generations. He knew both that Buddhism was salvation for power in his own hands. He would be the first noble of consequence He and his clan would hold it aloft in battle, their foes. But nature, or maybe the old Shinto gods, religion. Plague broke out, and Soga's enemies at gods of the land were insulted. Emperor Kinmei, in a fearful rage and in mortal temples destroyed. It would be left to Soga no Iname's descendants The army of the Imperial Princes and the troops fell back three times. At this the Imperial Prince [Shotoku], his the rear of the army. He pondered in his own mind, saying to himself: So he cut down a tree, and swiftly fashioned Placing them on his top-knot, he uttered a "If we are now made to gain the victory the four Heavenly Kings, guardians of the pagoda." And so, Prince Shotoku swept to victory. When he was appointed head of government under female Empress Regnant, Suiko, he made Buddhism Together they established temples, sent embassies the heavens, and a constitution to enshrine as the guiding principles of life - at least within a century would become generally known Land of the Rising Sun.' Nihon, or, Japan. From the chaos and tribal infighting of the the roots of a stable state, which would in Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku, and impose semi-vassal tattooed Amami island peoples of the far south. Future religious and secular leaders would dreams, inspiring them to great deeds and In his vision, his accomplishments, and the Shotoku can justly claim to be the Father The farm boy stood in a simple tunic, rusty He was feeling strong. The gathering cold of late autumn did not Instead the blue sky gave him hope and strength. The conscript reflected on the fact that he He was now a great warrior for his lord and He watched excitedly as the eagerly anticipated of the Baengma River, on the East coast of Tens of thousands of men bent to the oars, had successfully made the treacherous crossing Astride each ship, stood proud warriors, clan amid deafening cheers. Drums rang out. They were late in the season, and had been but it mattered not. They were now here. Baekje, the kingdom from which Buddha's ally on the Korean Peninsula, but had fallen kingdom, Silla, in 660. Following that defeat, those who could had the help of the Japanese. This vast army and armada of boats was the It was a moment of pure joy for the young to welcome the Japanese reinforcements, and his rightful lord, the new King Pungjang. The King would stamp the seal of peace on the wretched oppressors. The river was filling up. It had become almost impossible to see the were so numerous. 800 his commander had told him. All the conscript knew was that with such Everyone was in good spirits. The moment for revenge had arrived. It was October 4th 663. The motherland was on the cusp of being restored The flotilla got larger and larger as more to head upstream. But there came a point when they were so jammed This was the moment the hidden Tang Chinese 170 of them sprung the trap, speeding downriver down on the unprepared Japanese and Baekje The young conscript watched in horror as his before his eyes. Then from the hills behind him came the sound ... echoed eerily through the valley - the Hwarang! Silla's renowned cavalry. Trained by warrior monks from childhood to fight to the death for their comrades, and They were said to sooner die than retreat. The young Baekje conscript now saw himself No great warrior. A mere mountain peasant dressed in hemp clothing, It was now he knew fear in his heart. Behind Baekje's dwindling forces, the Tang covered the floating battlefield. Surviving Japanese warriors from sunken ships the rear of the conscript's formation, there the only hope was the ever-smaller mass of Then they broke. The few remaining men headed for the safety them, impaling the fleeing runners on razor-sharp They held out, fighting a low-key guerilla But after a decade, the dwindling band of there was to be no Baekje resurrection. Japanese ships again made the dangerous voyage evacuation of their Korean allies and kin. The Minister Yeo Jasin, the Minister Gwisil of over 700 persons, were removed and settled of Omi. As Baekje fell, all those who could, perhaps islands with the retreating Japanese troops, and integrated into society and national political Their traces survive to this day in place This was a pivotal moment for Japan. No longer would it be intimately entwined From now, it would turn inwards, concentrating continental politics and conflicts. Silla, who soon conquered the whole peninsula, their Baekje enemies. The relationship between the Japanese isles its former warmth. In ancient times, the kings of the Yin Dynasty the capital five times. The sovereigns of the Zhou Dynasty ensured the capital three times. Today, as for the site of Heijo-kyo, the layout model, mountains guard the site in three directions, We should build a new capital at this site. Materials for construction, as the need arises, Construction of streets and bridges should the people who are willing to render services Plans should be carefully worked out so that Bodhisena had traveled the world, over icebound lush farmland, and upon the deepest seas in one, a Bodhisattva of wisdom, who had appeared It had taken him years, but now he was reaching Gyoki, the Japanese monk who walked beside of it. They had met before in another time and place Buddha himself. Gyoki solemnly led Bodhisena on to his, their, new capital city. Nothing like this had been seen before. The land had been unified, no longer was it The Land of the Rising Sun, Japan. It was no longer appropriate or dignified to the back of ox wagons every few years. China had long ago built an established capital. It was high time that Japan should join the had so many other ways over the last centuries. Foreign states needed to understand the full and its rulers. Needed to know where to send diplomatic missions, What is more, Heaven needed to know where confused the gods, caused them to look less The time had come. On the day of Jia-Zi in the eleventh month, as follows; We hear that, in ancient times, caves in winter and nests in summer. In recent years, the noble people live in We also have the capital for the residence Since the capital is visited by people from can we express the virtue of the emperor if We offer a proposal to decree that the authorities to equip their houses with tiled roofs, vermilion Heijo-Kyo was the answer to all these problems, A city of 100,000. Nobles, commoners, and slaves alike lived Peasants delivered food and other supplies to make their fortune in the pleasure districts, to grab a tiny slither of the glorious riches Imperial councilors and civil servants also away as Persia, a land lost in the haze of to exist beyond China. Chinese scholars, merchants, engineers and and haunted the halls of learning in their marking nails - work with one's hands and and the servile classes. A grand Imperial repository called Shosoin of the new city. The Royal Treasures, tribute and gifts from even than the most exotic of inhabitants - the names were unknown - would no longer be subject They would rest in peace, as symbols of Imperial Power, in the sacrosanct precincts of the Prince Shotoku's reforms had woven their The loss of allies and bases on the continent, Japan's establishment as a state had led Of all the people who roamed the wide boulevards out. He was by far the darkest-skinned, and perhaps ever walked the winding mountain roads of A Tamil man from the deep south of what is seeking Buddhist truth, and his search had He was only in his twenties. The Imperial court was thrilled to have a birth, and granted Bodhisena land for a temple, and saintly aura. However, Bodhisena did not simply settle for He was granted the honour of putting the final that Japan, and most of the world, had ever In 741, Emperor Shomu, desiring to show the protection of the Lochana Buddha's universal already completed such a project, ordered It was to be the center piece of a great institution 500 tons, cast entirely of bronze, and housed with 84 massive cypress pillars - Todaiji. The world had never seen the like in wood Half of the population, around 2,600,000 people and specialist craftsmen hired from throughout realize the Imperial Dream. In 752, it was time for the final act. The eye-opening ceremony - to dedicate the Before dignitaries from Tang China, all the dancers moving to the dignified and majestic biwa lutes, and myriad drums which formed and Foche, the Tamil priest himself painted It must have been a profound moment of holiness With the painting of his eye, the Buddha lived. In Nara. In Japan. The Great Buddha's love and protection now warm and protect the world with its light The brush the Bodhisena used is still preserved It took several decades for the luster to For while the munificence of the great statue health, the financial and social cost took Furthermore, the great centers of learning influence over the state. This was not how the new Emperor Kammu saw throne in 781, and became determined to break by his predecessors. There was only one thing for it. The 'eternal' capital of Heijo-kyo would The Buddhists could be left to twiddle their power. Nagaoka was the site chosen in 784. But it was not a success. A decade later, in 794, Heian-kyo was eventually into a glorious and fitting capital city to This new city grew in size with the building noble families of the land, a third who traced a testament to the global draw of the polity in central Japan. The economy thrived, and the libraries became classics available for the reference of ministers, Over the next few hundred years, Chinese book ancient literature that had been lost in China Kyoto as it later became, was to remain the But it was on Japan's borders where the real Emishi from the two provinces of Mutsu and have repeatedly harmed Our imperial subjects. Accordingly, We have dispatched an officer their regiments. They are to go forth... and punish the emishi. The villages of sturdy wooden huts were small, Nestled in the cozy confines of tree-bound you stumbled upon them. The villagers, called Emishi by their would-be lives, hunting, trapping, gathering, and reaping Food was plentiful, the gods and spirits of abundant resources of every kind. And so why then should they bow to foreigners women who lived in far-off palaces? What would the foreigners give them in exchange What more could they need? These people controlled their own destiny, but their own chiefs. Amongst the Eastern savages the emishi are together promiscuously, there is no distinction In winter they dwell in holes, in summer they Their clothing consists of furs, and they In ascending mountains they are like flying like fleet wolves. ... Japan. In fact, the remote borders in the north, disputed to this day. In the 8th and 9th century, the wild border fact, that even the marches to the north of a vague realm of independent and warlike peoples The ancient Japanese Court did not engage who these people were, simply classing these But modern research has led us to believe ethnicity, composed of peoples similar to with a stronger dose of blood from the people extreme north. Periodically, tribes of these Emishi people begged admittance to the tax role, and were Whether this resettlement resembled the relatively tribes as farmers in Roman territory, or represented but it is thought at least some of the settlers resisting husbands and fathers were then enticed However, in the main, the north remained beyond that something must be done about it. In the early 8th century, several punitive conscripts set out, but the skill of the enemy winter snows meant little was achieved. And so in 774, the Emperor decided to do something He declared the commencement of THE GREAT Because [military action] brings hardship virtue that embraces the myriad things [and But a report from Our generals makes it clear wild hearts. They invade Our frontiers and ignore the instructions What must be done cannot be avoided .... from provinces adjoining the barbarian-territories. Non-professional peasant serving as part of and armour and not expecting to be in the Those who commanded them were chosen for their The Emishi, whose own recorded testimony is and despite their numerical and equipmental Vietnam, attack swiftly from nowhere, before of their homeland. While the huge Yamato armies did score some territory they did not know, losing men to supply lines grew ever longer. An age old story. The Emishi chieftain, Aterui sat atop his It was the fifth month of 789. He gazed at the vast enemy force arrayed before Behind the marching Yamato troops sent by homes. Razed as the slow moving infantry progressed Because the flaming homes had been sacrificed This advance guard had been lured over the of a seemingly small and easily defeatable The Emishi stood their ground at first. Let the attackers think it was the main force, They then feigned retreat, withdrawing while Yamato troops. The invader's plan was for the remainder of men, to cross the river now, with no Emishi Now was Aterui's moment. He and his thousand warriors sounded their Blood-curdling roars echoed through the hills volume to a storm. The tramping army below them on the valley sounded, and a proud Chinese-style war banner spooked and afraid. Aterui sounded his conch horn. It rang through the valleys and hills of his The cavalry started slowly down the forested they could simply hear the cries and shouts The men on the valley floor's imaginations It seemed as if a great horde of riders was It was too much for the peasant levies. They broke and ran. Trampling their once proud war banners beneath Those that managed to reach the river began Towards the safety of the far bank, and the But these were treacherous waters. They flowed fast, and furious. Over 1,000 men succumbed to the depths. 1,250 more survived only by discarding their A sacrifice to the goddess of this forsaken The army did not attempt another crossing. The commander, Ki no Kosami, issued his report My staff and I have discussed this and concluded return the provisions, and prepare for emergencies.... Thus we have sent orders to the various armies More campaigns followed, but in the face of it was clear that something had to change. And so, after the death of Emperor Kammu, this GREAT PACIFICATION, the Court came up In 811, victory was declared. Nothing had changed. The Emishi simply continued their wild and It would be another 400 years before the north be cultural assimilation rather than conquest. However, for now a conch shell of freedom the Emishi's northern homeland. A western houri beckons with her white hand with her white hand She stands by the wine warmer, and laughs Laughs with the breath of spring, "Will you be going somewhere, milord, now, The young embassy member, Abe no Nakamaro, golden hair in the crowd as the Japanese embassy through the great eastern gate of the city they would be accommodated during their stay It had been a grueling odyssey from Heijo-kyo The thought of setting sail from the port ringing in his ears, brought tears even now, Of the four ships which set sail, only two Kyushu. Island hopping until the specs of land ran great expanse of ocean before China appeared He knew that former missions had sailed a and Silla's belligerence had put a stop Now the young diplomat, only 19, had seen foot in a Japanese one again. He also swore that should he survive to return uncertain terms that Japanese shipbuilding Once in China though, a thing of true wonder network which stretched unhindered to the systems and in great order. In China, all roads lead to the capital Chang-an! The embassy had ridden in official carriages, on stone bridges or regular, river-worthy relay stations, and contemplating the vastness weary way on the hard road. And now the young embassy member was here than one million from all corners of the earth, and all he could think of was the revealing beneath, and the outlandish yet oh-so-enticing silken cloth. He wondered what type of barbarian she was, as he had? Although, if that was so, it must be a different This truly was a city of wonders, where all in the Chinese emperor, the Son of Heaven's, He knew he would be spending months, perhaps facilities, afforded little movement, a gilded But he would somehow evade the guard. To stroke those long golden locks, and discover This truly was a city of wonders. He would discover the World in Chang-an, and his epic adventures. Of that he was certain. Between 607 and 839AD, 21 missions were dispatched The first mission infuriated the Chinese Emperor, the two nations were equal. &quot;The heavenly sovereign of the east respectfully Dong Tian Huang Jing Bai Xi Huang Di time, engaged in trying to dominate the northern for a polite, but haughty, letter to be delivered, nation, below himself, the 'Son of Heaven' The Emperor greets the sovereign of Yamato. Your chief envoy, has come and stated in detail We have been graced with reception of the will extend the influence of our virtue to In our concern to nurture and edify the people, I have heard that the sovereign resides beyond that peace reigns within his country, that they are of an honest nature. You have come from afar to bring tribute. We are delighted with this splendid demonstration The chief envoy, Ono no omi Imoko, reported whose laws are complete and fixed," and exchange, during which Japan acquired knowledge industry, culture, fine Chinese manufactures, world stage and senior rank in the hierarchy It, however, had to grit its teeth and accept The ship he was attempting to return home Vietnam, and Abe no Nakamuro never did return To this day, he remains deeply respected, both China and Japan. When I look up into the vast sky tonight, behind Mt. Mikasa at Kasuga Shrine In the breeze So brief that Fall is sad, indeed... It was the end of 10th century, a time of Not only in Japan - for the past century or The Vikings were ravaging Europe, the Mayan decline, China was divided by conflict and Over the past centuries, conflict with Silla travel in war-torn China had meant that the Immigration similarly dried up, trade faltered, on which earlier development had been based, The court lost control of the provinces, and Despite this calamity, however, a great flowering ancient, two hundred-year-old capital, Kyoto. Great volumes of poetry were declaimed for Gorgeous clothing recorded in immortal artworks. Music and dance of great sophistication composed years. Perhaps most wonderful of all, a great literary The world's first ever novel, Murasaki Shikibu's in the early 11th century, and other women, witticisms and ironic reflections into diaries Prime among these female authors, somewhat of our modern world, was Sei Shonagon How to be hard-hearted, from me But to promise, then not come- As far as Sei was concerned, the common people One occasionally caught a glimpse of them threadbare, unperfumed, and untrammeled by Once, she had seen a small boy, no doubt abandoned their young to fend for themselves, standing He did not move, simply stared at her carriage Could anything have been more rude? Sei Shonagon, lady in waiting, court chronicler, on this and other events. As far as the courtier was concerned, it all kept apart as far as possible from what lay She had heard that the common people mated The noble lady simply imagined it to be a The males did exhibit a modicum of decency begotten offspring, at least until he had to one of the diseases which were of course Perhaps most astonishingly, however, the females not even having the wherewithal to hire a Sei herself, who had left a good-for-nothing a more refined approach to woo, or reject Exchanges of poetry, perfumed letters, half-feigned the disposal and scorning of favours calculated But even Sei, the master of the game of love To be abandoned I know so well; Do my tears fall. The razor-sharp sword slashed downwards towards To finish the job, the rider grabbed the unhelmeted from its body. The victorious killer threw away the prize away. As she rode off the field of war into the helmet, and shook her long jet-black hair a battle standard, announcing to all that had fought her last battle, and fought it While Sei Shonagon and her noble kin lived the east events that would have repercussions A class of clans, connected by hereditary As they served only one lord, they became Samurai. Within 100 years, in the 11th century, at was dawning in Europe, powerful samurai warrior Imperial Court. One in particular, the Taira, seemed to be Kiyomori managed to have his three-year-old as Emperor Antoku. All seemed to be going very well. In the east, Taira's ancient foe who had lead by Yoritomo raised a host, and marched When the Taira generals perceived their resurrected to Kyoto without engaging. The next few years saw the east and north suffered natural disaster, famine and pestilence. However, they remained undefeated and safe strike. In 1184, the Taira felt their time had come. A huge force of 100,000 was levied, and the progress north to combat the Minamoto in their On June 2. 1184, battle was joined at Kurikara. It took place in the old honorable samurai Melees were fought between picked champions, and all the proper protocols were observed. Until night fell. The heavily outnumbered Minamoto sent flaming through the Taira troops. In the chaos, the camp was abandoned, and Thus did seventy thousand horsemen of the the mountain streams ran with their blood small hill. The Taira fled Kyoto, taking the young Emperor and anything else they could grab. They fled still further west until they could Final battle was enjoined at a place called The fighting took place with ships' decks One wrong step, and heavily armored warriors, to watery deaths. Emperor Antoku, 6 years old, was placed on the Minamoto concentrated their arrow fire But a traitor, Taguchi Shigeyoshi, defected Arrows rained down on the rough-hewn boat Antoku's once glorious realm. As the Taira realized there was no further in her arms. Finally, she jumped. &quot;In the depths of the Ocean, we have a capital&quot; Minamoto Yoritomo was granted the title of swiftly removed political power from Kyoto's Henceforth, true power would be wielded from Samurai power, largely based in the East at until 1868 when the last Shogun resigned, to his new capital of Tokyo. Monks and priests today are fawning and devious, astray. Not a single person in the entire population be nothing but binding and enslaving, killing ... appear again and again, two suns will come with unaccustomed frequency. Black arcs and white arcs will span the sky the earth will shake, and noises will issue Torrential rains and violent winds will come and grains and fruits will not ripen. Marauders from many other regions will invade all manner of pain and affliction, and no The priest Nichiren placed down his pen, knelt gazed, through the open door, down his green, He had said his piece. Rulers do not generally like to be told they ones who live in fear of invasions predicted Rival priests with the ruler's ear, do not And no one likes to think that marauders from to slaughter the men, rape the women, and Nichiren was condemned to death, and dragged In the dark of night, he frantically threw to avoid them being soiled by his blood. The calm sea shimmered in the light of the their gentle ebb and flow. As the executioner's sword hovered above raised his face, and despite himself, he swiftly Suddenly, the sky was rent in two by a brilliant Nichiren heard the dull yet sonorous sound grasp, and the patter of running feet on the The execution corps fled. Soon, the holy man was alone with the sea, His saviour. The priest let two handfulls of sand seep his feet, walked up to where the grass met branch where they still hung, and then sank The divine being had vouched for his virtuosity, mission on earth. And Nichiren was right: after the relative environmental catastrophe, natural disasters, breakdown, starvation - and appeared to be But that was nothing. As Nichren had predicted, the Horsemen of Japanese isles. Mongols. We by the Grace and decree of Heaven, Emperor King of Japan. We have pondered that from ancient times, to cultivate friendly intercourse with those We beg that hereafter you, O King, will establish may make the four seas their home. Is it reasonable to refuse intercourse with It will lead to war, and who is there who Think on this, O King! The first letter had arrived in 1266. Ignoring these communications, and general large the Mongol Empire was - which stretched troops storming through the surf at Hakata The defender's arrow flew sure. The Mongol toppled from his horse, and waves Then the enemy paused. As one, the men in the rear ranks raised strange darkened the sky, shield-less as was their Suddenly, thunder roared a short way off. Not in the clear, pale autumn sky, but on Blood and flesh of samurai flew everywhere. Then the thunder pealed again, and again. These Mongol devils seemed somehow to have side. The samurai turned and fled. They would fight men to the death, but dueling The enemy advanced up the wet beach slowly, propelling their grenade-like bombs asunder. The samurai continued a fighting retreat throughout But the enemy came on. Unstoppable. Invincible. Burning, pillaging, killing. Night fell. And in the morning, they were gone. By the time news of the landing reached the of the country a heaven-sent typhoon had consigned of the ocean, and the rest scuttling for the Japan had been lucky this time. No one knew why, but after that first day to their great ships and sailed away. Perhaps they were looking for an easier landing mission. Either way, the typhoon had put paid to whatever All knew they would return, and Shiken Hojo All along the eastern coast walls were to troop numbers multiplied, even weapons to Kublai smashed his fist into the floor. These snakes, those worms, these Dwarvish They had performed relatively well against year, and now they thought they could behead No action could be more heinous - greater put to the sword for less. They would pay dearly. A people should know when they have met their Kublai's generals, flush from having re-united over the southern provinces, now turned their Lacking knowledge of the sea, and remembering expedition in 1274, they turned to two Yangtze their expertise. Two fleets would sail for Japan. One, of 900 ships, from Korea, and one of They would carry 142,000 men, the biggest until the Allied invasions of Normandy in Shiken Hojo Tokimune was petrified. He knew what his fate would be should the It was well known that the Mongols refused although a ruler, was in truth merely a regent. Not of royal blood. His family had usurped both Emperor and Shogun. His end would not be swift and after his behaviour enjoy a degree of creativity in their disposal Wild riders chased him down in his dreams. For once the young, hot-headed Shogunal regent To calm him, Tokimune's spiritual counselor, Zen Master, Mugaku Sogen, told him the story his temple in China. Mugaku had knelt unmoving on the floor, the The flames of Mongol devastation crackled and drew his sword for the mortal blow. Mugaku, ignoring the stench of horse and human whisper, and looked the rough-looking rider I searched the universe, and found the answer. People are empty, even Buddha's teachings Your great sword, The warrior paused, bowed low, and left the Mugaku had made his way eastwards to the land still revered. Quietly the aged Chinese monk advised the the source of his cowardice and fear within. Having done so, Tokimune screamed, "Katsu!" "VICTORY." Mugaku smiled. "It is true that the son of a lion roars Tokimune sent messengers to the Court to request Japan was on high alert. Kikuchi Takefusa, mounted atop a fine steed, in the fresh sea breeze watched the water 600 years before, his family had been placed guard against invasion from what had once That attack had never come, and countless Until now. The Mongols had brought their Korean, Jurchen, another realm to their vast empire. Would they never be satisfied? The Korea-based fleet had ravaged the outer And on June 21st 1281 the enemy had appeared The fighting was fierce in Hakata Bay. But all attempts at landing had been foiled The great ships remained, threatening, massive, but severely delayed reinforcements from China The defenders did not sit idle. Small boats put out in the dead of each night. Mongol ships were boarded, their crews put to cause panic. A pandemic broke out. Thousands of the invaders perished. The ships started to rot. Then the China fleet arrived. Months late, but glorious in its great multitude. There was little hope for the defenders. They knew their time had come. The retired Emperor Kameyama sent an offering chief shrine at Ise, imploring her to intervene That very same evening, a storm exploded from The wind roared, and the waves rose higher Susa-no-o, God of Storms, was doing his sister When the Susa-no-o had had enough, the Great were nothing more than throngs of forlorn lapping against the quiet Kyushu shores in When the wicked invaders again arrived in of the enemy could be effected only by divine looked up to heaven, and a divine storm rose and the enemy perished all at once. In China, The Mongols never totally recovered defeat, and although their Chinese domination in truth dealt a mortal blow. Against all the odds, Japan's ancient, Mythical from her good-for-nothing storm god brother, A new Japanese unity was forged in the Mongol The island country of rival clans, competing disintegrated into banditry and disunity four century found an uneasy balance and firm borders foreign invasion, established a feeling that One Nation united against a common enemy. Japan would remain Japan.