When you decide you want to declutter your as quickly and as easily as possible. So you search for hacks and tips hoping you this process for you. Well, today I'd like to offer you some decluttering efficient and effective for you. While also providing you with the satisfaction So if that is of interest to you then let's You have to set decluttering goals. Before you can start letting go, you have and what you're trying to accomplish. Setting these goals is a great way to help efficiently. It also becomes a lot easier to push yourself goal you want to reach. Here are some examples: How often do you want to declutter? Daily, weekly, monthly? Personally, I suggest you declutter as you day as you go through your normal routine Some other goals may include: When do you want to complete a decluttering How much do you want to get rid of? How little do you want to keep? See, it's important that you're as specific This allows you to create tangible benchmarks and encouragement throughout your decluttering Number two is to understand that it will seem As you begin to declutter your life, you'll what you're doing is working. You may hit a few roadblocks and begin to you don't give up and revert back to your See decluttering is not an overnight process. The mess and clutter in our lives don't Although some of us probably wished it did, I'd like to share a story with you. At the beginning of my journey, I was making I bulldozed my way through my cluttered closet weekend it seemed. Things were going great. I was confidently traveling down this path That was until I hit a wall I never saw coming. See in this moment I learned one of the most It gets worse before it gets better. What I mean by that is although I was making longer wore that wall I hit was telling me that wasn't as obvious as old t-shirts and Of course, there was more physical clutter at the time. But I didn't even scratch the surface mentally And for me that was scary. I went from riding this high of letting go beginning to know. Realizing that my decluttering journey was I shared this story with you to show that that if this feels overwhelming, it will get It just might get worse first. But keep at it. Number three is to start with what you need. There are two questions that I see come up minimalism and decluttering are discussed. Number one is where do start or how do I get And number two is how do I let go faster? Now some may argue that the answers to these straightforward. And I would agree. However, I'm going to a stab at answering your thinking and help you to arrive at a Now asking where do I start with minimalism you seek, but it isn't. I'd argue that it's most likely purpose, that you seek. And if this is true, then here's how I'd Start with what you need. Ask yourself what do I need to keep in my intention, and control over my life. And if it does not serve a purpose, protect my efforts to regain control of my life. Then I give myself permission to let it go, Now in order to properly start with what you See your values tell you what's important And when you know what's important to you, And when you know what you need, you'll Number four is to start easy and build towards As a matter of fact, I just talked about this about how to declutter sentimental items. Where I walk you through 10 solid ways to And if you haven't had a chance to listen I'll leave a link to that video down below. Now in the context of this conversation, we're I thought I'd offer a unique decluttering else you've heard, and I'm confident that results faster. And that is the Decluttering Snowball Effect. Start easy by decluttering those things that Clothes that don't fit; decor you don't that you probably have it memorized by now; so on and so forth. See I'm suggesting you do this so you can go. That way you can begin to make progress and and donate. The key with this is to then use that momentum Meaning use it along with your confidence attachments as you begin to approach them Starting with this method in mind will save wondering why you aren't making the type If you start easy and build from there, before than you realize. Number five is to stop the inflow of new stuff. If your goal is to declutter your life and least results that will instill confidence then you have to stop the inflow of new stuff. Now there are a ton of minimalism rules and help with this. Such as the one in, one out method. Meaning if you buy one new item and welcome one item from your space in its place. This works great and my wife and I have tried But it only works if you have the discipline If not, and it's ok if you don't, it's So instead I suggest that you don't buy a significant amount of clutter from your I'm sure you've heard of the popular no-buy across social media and blogs. This movement is all about not buying anything for months at a time. I've even seen some people attempt to do See, this is a good way to cut back on overspending your life. It's also challenging in many other ways and find new ways to enjoy life. Number six is to consider donating instead I've learned on my own personal journey Meaning you won't be able to sell everything and you definitely can't expect to make Far too often we allow ourselves to hold onto we lie to ourselves about what we could do Have you ever said to yourself or hear someone someday? Or that an item might be worth something one value pretty well. See, it's impossible to declutter your life to grab and hold on to everything that you Now of course there is a time and place where For example, my wife and I sold a few furniture time it made the most sense to and to be frank couch at goodwill. But we didn't try to sell everything. Most of our clutter we donated without a passing So I want to encourage you to choose. Sell it if it makes sense but consider donating on your journey and not get held up for the Number seven is to give yourself some grace. You have to remember that you're not perfect than the next person or longer than you anticipated What's important is that you give yourself You clicked on this video because you wanted faster, right. Well if you didn't receive anything else Your decluttering results are based solely to keep and on how confident you are in your Keep growing, keep learning and always stay I'll see you in the next one! Peace!