On this channel, I've made many chemicals, and some of them have smelled really nice, and others have smelled terrible, In theory, I could have used any of these or I could have mixed them all together However, to make a completely new one, Raspberry ketone occurs naturally and it's a major component of their smell. The amount in the raspberries, though, and it's estimated might only contain a few milligrams of it. This makes extracting it and way too expensive This isn't really much of an issue, we can often just disregard nature Like with many other flavors, fragrances, the building process usually starts For any given molecule, but for raspberry ketone, It starts with benzene, and with every step, is slowly put together. This is a really long and when producing it industrially, nobody's going to be starting Like with most other synthesis, they'll start with the cheapest that's closest to the final molecule. In this case, so that's what As usual, I tried my best to find an easy but unfortunately, I didn't really have a choice, and I ended up Before I get started, though, that making the raspberry ketone myself was definitely The entire point of this project and the science behind its production, and I thought that making it myself Unlike the 4-Hydroxybenzaldehyde, the raspberry ketone There are a lot of places but it's not meant to be used in food or perfumes It's instead sold but as far as I know, as with many other there's no evidence However, it was convenient for me to have an easy and you'll see later on in the video But anyway, with that being said, The first step was to make so I added about 4 grams of it I swirled it around a bit and eventually it all dissolved. I didn't need this solution so it was temporarily placed on the side. I then got a flask and I dumped in 10 grams On top of this, I dropped in a stir bar, and I also added It quickly dissolved but to get the rest of it, In less than a minute later, and I was left with this Now, the next step was, to slowly add that I just made before. This caused its color to slowly change, and by the time that it was all added, What's going on here is a reaction between the acetone and it's catalyzed This reaction is generally known and a new carbon-carbon bond The result is this intermediate molecule, which is actually very close However, it still has this double bond, which I'll have to get rid of This intermediate has and I think it's why This reaction is a bit messy, though, and it forms side products in tar, which I think caused it At this point, I sealed it with a stopper, and I let it sit somewhere dark During this time, and when I came back to it, Now, into a beaker, followed by 65 mls This was then topped off and it gave me roughly a 10% solution. This was all mixed together and I also added some ice. Then I shook the reaction mixture and I poured it into the acid. The major reason for this step was to help purify out I also washed the flask just get out as much as possible. This reaction isn't very clean, and the base causes some of the acetone Our desired product or slightly yellow color, and I think that all this red stuff By adding it to the acid, all the sodium hydroxide and it stops things Also, the water dissolves which helps separate This process and the product just over the course of about 10 minutes. When it looked like it was done, and I did this by vacuum filtration. I turned on my vacuum pump When everything had been pulled through, I washed the beaker Then I turned on my pump again, I was eventually left with a reddish-brown but it was still really impure. To clean it up, so I poured it all into a beaker. Then I added a somewhat arbitrary and I turned on the stirring and heating. As it warmed up more and more solid dissolved, Also, at some point, and it became an oily liquid. Most of it eventually disappeared, but to get the rest, I ended up adding quite a bit, but there was still a small amount left. I really wanted it to be nice and clear, and I worried I just quickly transferred it and then continued adding more. It did end up clearing up completely, but it also didn't take so probably everything I then took it off the hot plate, pulled out my stir bar, When I came back the next day, I had a lot of nice but there was also a lot All that stuff as well as tar and other things, and it's going to have The fluffy crystals, though, and they can just be filtered off. I did this just like before; After all the water was pulled through, and I left the pump on for a few minutes I'm not sure why, it wasn't white anymore, I then dumped it onto some paper to dry, But by the next day, In total here, which was a bit low for this reaction. Also, the purity of the stuff here but it wasn't as good so I wanted to clean it up a bit more. First, though, I wanted to see by getting more product and I'll come back to this in a bit. All of the tar had solidified, and it was only loosely stuck so it was pretty easy to scrape off. To get it all out, a few times with water, and all of these washings The heating was turned on, and like before, Eventually, almost everything dissolved, but there was still some stubborn tar that didn't seem to disappear I decided to get rid of it, and I did this by pouring everything and doing my best to not include the tar. I then added a bit more water and I was left This was taken off the hot plate and I waited for it to cool I ended up leaving it overnight, and when I came back the next day, I saw that some really nice crystals Unfortunately, though, there was still But thankfully, it was pretty easy and I just had to shake it around a bit. I then filtered it off and dried it and this is what I was left with. I was able to recover which was pretty significant, considering my initial yield Now, the total amount that I had it wasn't as pure as I would have liked, To do this, but this time, I decided to try I started by adding and then I turned on and I waited for it to get to a boil. The raspberry ketone are much more soluble in ethanol, so this time, When it eventually got to a boil I started adding water The basic goal here was to keep adding the water until the product was just barely soluble When I eventually got between the ethanol and the water, I took out the stir bar and let it cool, and several hours later, At the bottom, though, But in any case, I just swirled it around and I filtered them off. I let them dry for about a day or so, This was definitely way more pure but it still looked like But despite this, it was more than so I decided to move on. What I thought was interesting was, this molecule However, despite just being it really had no smell to it. The next reaction that I had to do and to do it, I needed hydrogen gas. However, I didn't just have a tank of it and I had to make it myself. In a lab setting, there are several ways but I found that for me, sodium hydroxide drain cleaner This was the setup that I put together, which at first but it's really not that bad. The basic idea is that the flask is filled and then above this, In this funnel, oil is a whole bunch When it's opened, it'll all start dripping When they come into contact, and they'll produce hydrogen gas, It'll then move through the plastic tube and into my trap, The calcium chloride is a dehydrated salt, and it'll pull a lot of the water This will by no means but it should take away After generating and letting all of the air I attached a balloon. When it got to a decent size, I took it off and I sealed it by just wrapping it Then I attached another balloon One thing is the major downside of this reaction, which is that aluminum generate a lot of heat when they react. This means that as the reaction continues, and more and more water For the most part, at picking this up, To deal with this, one relatively easy method is to just put to try to recondense I went for the even easier method, though, which was just with a bit of cold water in a bowl. But anyway, with the hydrogen now ready, I was able to move on Into a flask, I added all the intermediate along with some ethyl acetate. I then turned on the stirring, I added 4 grams I actually made this myself boiling off the water, and then drying the powder This isn't soluble and it just has to be kept Then on top of all of this, I added 0.4 grams This is the active catalyst and like the sodium acetate, it isn't soluble, Now, with everything added, it was time to put together This is the way and it's just based on the glassware The piece that I'm adding here has two adapters and it's hard to see at the top, All of the glass joints to make sure that there aren't any leaks. Then to the lower adapter, I attached a hose To the other one, I put on a hose I also attached some plastic clips just to make sure At this point, But before I could get started, there was just one last thing I made sure the valve to the balloon and I opened up the vacuum one, I let it go for a few minutes and then I shut the valve. Now, with the whole system under vacuum, I opened up the valve to the balloon, When the balloon stopped shrinking, and then I opened up and I pulled another vacuum. This whole cycle was repeated just to make sure This is extremely important the palladium on carbon If there's enough, it can lead to a pretty nasty explosion. I did my cycles but generally, To do this, I would have needed and I would have just done my cycles Then as a final fourth one, I would have pulled out all the nitrogen and filled it with hydrogen. That method is technically safer because there's never any risk of having hydrogen and oxygen However, my vacuum pump is decent enough, and I've never really had an issue But anyway, after pulling a vacuum I opened the valve to my balloon At this point, it doesn't really look but the reaction is occurring. The palladium on carbon, which is basically just palladium is catalyzing the breakdown and its addition As this happened, and the balloon shrank. Most of the hydrogen so I shut the valve, took off the balloon, Under normal conditions, and it's not that reactive. The bond between the hydrogen atoms and it doesn't really want and react with other things. To make this happen, energy needs to be put in which is why it doesn't just and it needs some sort of ignition source. For most reactions, though, with any fires or explosions, and we want This is exactly where palladium on carbon In the presence of the metal catalyst, the hydrogen bond and each individual atom This metal can also associate itself and coordinate that One by one, it transfers the hydrogens and it converts it to a single bond. This type of reaction but more specifically, Some of you might be wondering, why are we doing this and not just straight up palladium metal Well, by dispersing on an inert substance like carbon, Because surface area is directly related we're speeding it up quite a bit. This reaction should work with something just like but it would be a lot slower. Some hydrogenations but this one seemed relatively tame. There was no cooling or anything else and I just let it sit here The way that I knew it reached this point This usually isn't the best way because if there's any leak it will seem like But anyway, to end it, I shut the valve to the balloon Then I pulled a vacuum to get out as much of the hydrogen When I felt that it was done, I closed the valve, took off the balloon, This is something because if the pump didn't pull out the air could ignite some of it. It turned out fine when I did it, but I think that this part But anyway, the next step was to purify out This whole setup was taken apart, and the first thing to do and the sodium acetate. This was done by just passing it along with some salide. The salide is basically just really and it helps and to pull out the really fine particles After almost I washed the flask with a bit more ethyl acetate. Then when that was all done, I did one final washing of the funnel I've never had an issue with it, but one thing to keep in mind meaning it can This can sometimes be even worse because some hydrogen What this all means is that because it does pose a slight fire hazard. But anyway, with that all done, and I was left This contained and to isolate it, I just had to get rid This was done pretty easily by just turning on the hot plate and setting up a fan off to the side. Up until now, the smell was mostly overpowered but as it was evaporated off I started to smell raspberry. It was a very faint, and it was a lot It all disappeared and eventually, I took it off the hot plate. I was left with this oily stuff, which I thought would crystallize but it just stayed as an oil. To get it started, I got a glass rod It initially didn't look but slowly, Then over the next 30 seconds or so, Using this rod, into this off-white yellowish powder. Pure raspberry ketone is white, though, so there are clearly However, from other runs, I found that it was really annoying so I used a slightly different method. For this one, and brought it to a boil. I'm not exactly sure at what temperature but eventually, Pure raspberry ketone so this happened I then boiled the water and I took it off the hot plate. I let it cool back to room temperature, but no crystallization happened, Some chemicals can be annoying like this. I mean, we saw that it was a solid before, but now that it decided to stay as an oil. I had to force it and to do this, I put it in the freezer. I waited till the water and then I took it out At first, it looked like and not much was happening, so I gave up But then, of course, it decided to solidify. Over the next couple of minutes, to try to break up all the pieces. The thin rod and I ended up changing it for a stopper, All of the water was then removed I also washed the beaker with a small amount of extra water. When most of it was gone, and I left it out to dry. This was what I had the next day, This was extremely low, but I've done this procedure and I always get I'm thinking that maybe wasn't very pure, but I'm not sure. I could also just be bad at chemistry, The incredibly low yield aside, though, what did surprise me The odor was really faint unlike some other compounds I also wasn't getting blue raspberry smell, and it was mostly Because I wasn't able to do I wasn't sure how pure this stuff was. I was also a bit concerned because when something fails it can sometimes mean that there are To figure out its rough purity, though, To do this, which for a lot of projects, but in this case, it was really easy. As I mentioned in the intro, pure raspberry ketone is sold online, Then onto a TLC plate, I loaded a very small sample of this, This was done by dissolving each of them in a small amount of acetone, and they were applied When it was ready, with a 50/50 mixture I originally planned but this video has already turned out so I'm just going to show the results. When I looked at the finish plate I saw that the spots were the same size and they traveled the same distance. This confirmed to me I did make raspberry ketone. Also, because there was it told me Now, with all that confirmed, I felt comfortable moving on I initially thought that this might be but I quickly found out is actually really simple. You basically just need to take and mix it with a carrier solvent. There are many different carriers but the most common ones like ethanol or isopropanol. I went with 95% ethanol but also because it's cheap and it's sold at my local pharmacy. To get started, into a small vial, Then I added the ethanol I wanted to just until the point I did this because I had no idea so I wanted to make it so I could dilute it later if I needed to. After a couple of minutes, it all disappeared, To test it, and I shot the back of my hand. After letting the ethanol evaporate I can try smelling it, and it smells exactly which doesn't really surprise me. It's just faintly sweet and fruity, I expected this because when it comes if you just pull out the major component the vegetable, it's not going to be the same. You're going to get just one fraction that you're trying to get. For raspberries, I can try smelling this here, and it smells very different which is supposed to be but it's just missing which give the raspberry When you're trying to make it can be quite difficult. You can sometimes get away but you often need several to get close to what you're looking for. There are, however, like with vanilla, by just synthesizing its major component, That's what's used to make and most people can't tell the difference Anyway, I think that's about the end I honestly had a lot of fun with it, but making the raspberry ketone definitely wasn't very efficient. I ended up really liking so I think in the future, I'm going to try to make However, I think I might venture away and maybe I'll get back I'm thinking it might be interesting and to instead, try to make As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours Also, everyone on Patreon If you support me with $5 or more, you'll get your name