In this lesson, you're going all the common C1 vocabulary Sound professional, sound advanced. Welcome back to JForrest English, of course. I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. First, let's review the most common C1 verbs. Now, I'm going to start this with a quiz So you'll complete a quiz, you'll learn the quiz again so you can see how much you've So you'll complete a lot of quizzes So let's start your first quiz. Question one, the organization Now I'm only going to give you 3 seconds So of course, hit pause, take as much time as you need and when you're ready Advocates for Question 2. The architect will the design concept during The company plans to a new recycling As the fog lifted, the majestic mountain emerged. Question 5. Healthy fats and proteins, A The graduation ceremony will at 10:00 AM sharp. Commence Question 7 yesterday. The art exhibit a wide range of The new furniture. The paint color compliments question nine. She used expressive body about the trip convey and finally, question 10. Right now, the team in the So how'd you do with the quiz? Now remember, it doesn't matter what going to learn all the concepts in detail, And I promise your score will be So let me explain each of these verbs Advocate. This means that you support, recommend For sentence structure, you need that preposition for, a noun or a gerund verb, because you Environmentalists advocate for stricter If the environmentalists advocate for these they recommend them, they support And notice that preposition for. Environmentalists advocate To elaborate, elaborate. This is when you add more detail or information to you elaborate on something and that something So notice that preposition here. We need on advocate for elaborate on for example? The professor asked Mark to elaborate on his So Mark is presenting, he's his research findings, but the professor said. Can you elaborate on this? So Mark needs to provide more information, more details, and by doing so he's To implement implement this is fact or action or you apply or For example, the company plans to implement So they're going to implement They're going to put it into effect. Once it's in effect, it means it is active, it is doing what you wanted it to do, So we don't need an additional preposition Implement the marketing plan. Implement the strategy, To emerge, emerge. This is when something comes into For example, as the sun set, In all its splendor, the city skyline emerged. It became visible or apparent. Apparent is another way of saying visible. If something is apparent, it means you can see it. A problem can also emerge, which means that constitute this means to be part of a For example, these five sections So these five sections make up the Annual report. They form the Annual Report. They're a part of the Annual Report. So the sections are the individual parts And these five sections constitute makeup or This simply means to begin or start something. Remember that all of these They are more advanced ways of saying But also remember that to be considered you need to know these alternative ways So commence is the advanced way For example, the conference will commence with a Of course you can simply say start, but to sound encompass this means to include or For example, the project scope encompasses a wide range of topics related If it encompasses a wide range of topics it means that it includes or contains The scope of a project is what a If it is within the scope the project will do it. If an item is outside of the scope, You might need to commence start that other item that contains that This means to enhance or complete something by In plain English, it means that you add For example, the red shoes She has her black dress well. What color harmonizes with black? What color goes well with black? Red, red and black complement each other. So she chose red shoes to complement This means to communicate or For example, the artist used muted colors to The artist used these colors to communicate that emotion, Muted colors are very soft colors, So when you look at this The feeling is communicated or expressed. To assemble, assemble, this means to gather For example, tomorrow let's assemble in the In this sense, it means to gather. So when individuals assemble, first they're So you have the individual members, but then when And it can also mean to gather. When people gather, they are individuals Tomorrow, let's assemble in the Now that you're more comfortable with these Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need, and when So how did you do with that quiz? Let's find out. Here are the answers. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need to review Amazing job. Now share your scores from the quizzes and Question one, it's almost winter, Now I'm only going to give you 3 So hit pause, take as much time as you need, Question Two She disagreed Question 3. Despite the small error, the customer Question 4 The presentation was informative, Question Five. He forgave his friend for the mistake Magnanimously. Question 6 The rain fell throughout the night, Question 7 The Carpenter Question eight, He was angry about being Ostensibly Question 9, the family agreed to And finally, Question 10. The old clock chimed every So how did you do with that quiz? Don't worry if you did terribly, That's OK because now I'm going to Incessantly. This means without interruption or continuously. For example, the alarm kept ringing Of course I could say the alarm kept Adverbs are not required in a sentence. But when I say incessantly, you of this action happening non-stop, continuously. So all of a sudden it sounds a lot more The alarm kept ringing incessantly Inevitably, inevitably, that's fun to say. Inevitably, this means certain to happen. So let's take an example with population growth. I could say with the increasing population, Again. I could simply say traffic But when I add inevitably, it emphasizes that. And you know that this is This is certain to happen. And of course a traffic jam is when you are unable A traffic jam, something that we inordinately, this means excessively or unusually. For example, he was inordinately Of course you expect someone expedition or any source of event or presentation. But if you say he was inordinately think this is a good thing because it The amount of excitement is not So this is how adverbs are really change the overall meaning of a sentence. He was inordinately excited about and maybe you were inordinately upset It's normal to make mistakes, but the amount of upset that you became Magnanimously, Magnanimously. That's a long word. Magnanimously. This means in a generous and for giving way. For example, my old boss was magnanimously friendly after he found out So I was working for this I left and I started my own company that's going So you would expect that my old boss, would be upset, but he was friendly. So I can say magnanimously friendly to show He wanted to show that he wasn't upset because Ostensibly, this means appearing as one For example, he was ostensibly happy, so I know that he's appearing happy, So in reality he isn't happy. I know that because I said ostensibly happy. He was ostensibly happy about the news, So he appeared happy. But in reality, he's worried deep down. That represents the feelings on the inside Perpetually, perpetually. This means constantly or continuously She's perpetually late. This is not a good thing. Because if you said she's late, well, that simply means she's late right But if I add the adverb perpetually, I the time it's a reoccurring action, or She's perpetually late. Not a good thing. Precariously, precariously. This means dangerously or in an unstable way. For example, the hiker walked precariously along the edge of the Cliff, so That's already a dangerous situation, but if he's walking precariously, it So he's walking like this or a dangerous way. He's extremely close to the edge of the Cliff. Superfluously. This is also fun to say superfluously. This means in an unnecessary or excessive manner, For example, the report was superfluously long, so reports can be long, but if you say it was They made one section of the report 10 pages, So hopefully you don't think that excessively long, too long, Unanimously. Unanimously. This means with complete So everyone agrees with the same thing. They all agree yes, or they all agree no, For example, the board members This means that every board They unanimously approved vehemently. Vehemently. This means in a strong and emotional way. For example, she vehemently opposed When you relocate, it means you permanently move So she opposed this idea. She didn't want to relocate. But if I say she vehemently opposed, She feels very strongly that she She vehemently opposed relocating to a new city. Now that you're more comfortable with again and I promise you'll Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need, and when Here are the answers. Hit pause, review them, and when You're doing awesome. Share your score from those Question one, she's a good detective. We can trust her. Now, I'm only going to give so hit pause if you need more time Her inferences. Question two Have you always had Question 3. Choosing between studying abroad or staying Question 4. Learning a new language is a worthwhile endeavor. Question 5 The word freedom has Question 6, lockdowns during COVID Question Seven There was a big in Question 8. J for his English lessons act as a Question nine, she gets her Disposition. Question 10 Your is your best quality resilience. So was that quiz difficult for you? It probably was, but don't worry So now I'm going to teach And then you'll do that quiz again Disparity. Disparity. This is a noticeable difference often in terms of quantity, quality, or status. For example, there is a significant disparity in income levels between the Remember grammatically that So pay attention to if the or if not, because it's either In this case, we have a disparity. We need an article. There is a modifier, a significant disparity. The article is conjugated with the modifier. So if you need a or an, it depends on A significant disparity. Resilience. Resilience. This is a concept and it's when you can recover For example, the community's quickly they rebuilt after So there was this devastating But the city's resilience, their ability to allowed them to rebuild the home and notice The city's resilience. Dilemma. Dilemma. That's fun to say. Dilemma. This is a difficult situation or made between two options, but So both of the options aren't very That's a dilemma. And notice that article a dilemma. For example, she faced A dilemma she didn't enjoy or pursuing her passion So she can take the high paying Or she can pursue art, but there's no money. So that's a dilemma, because both of Endeavor. Endeavor. This is a serious or determined especially something challenging or worthwhile. For example, the team made every endeavor Notice here, because it's a other grammatical structures to make it complete. And here you make an endeavor. Otherwise, we could actually The team endeavored to complete the project. But this lesson is teaching you nouns. And in this case, endeavor is also a noun. But you make an endeavor. In this example, it's made every endeavor. So we have our verb make in the past Simple. And because every implies there was more Every endeavor but endeavor is a So the noun is plural, but Inclination. Inclination. This is a natural tendency or His inclination towards music led him to So he has a natural tendency towards music. Or simply he has a preference and because of that His inclination and notice the His inclination towards music. Catalyst, catalyst. A catalyst is something that speeds up a significant change or that For example, the new technology served as a catalyst for the company's rapid So in this case, the catalyst is the allowed the company to speed up a case is expanding into international markets So either they were in the process of doing But the new technology was the catalyst. It speeded up or it caused it. Disposition. Disposition. This is a person's inherent Or you can think of it as For example, her cheerful disposition made her So here her disposition, disposition is the noun, and it simply represents her And then we have an adjective, And in that case it sounds But somebody could have a negative disposition. His angry disposition made him To completely change the example Connotation. This is the emotional or cultural associations So let's take the word home literally. A home is where you live. That's the literal meaning. So what other connotations We could say the word home has positive So that's the emotional characteristics That's the connotation controversy, controversy. I'm sure you know this one. This is a prolonged public dispute or debate, often involving opposing For example, the new government policy and politicians alike sparked a controversy. Here the word spark simply means created. The controversy only exists And remember, the controversy is that there So there's going to be some sort of debate. Then is going to be a prolonged debate, a longer Inference. Inference. This is a conclusion reached based on evidence So I could look at something That's direct observation, but maybe I don't so I have to use evidence and That's inference. This is something that detectives do, simply look at something to directly observe So the clues, That's the From the clues provided, the detective made a So the detective reached a conclusion not based on observation, because if you then you would know exactly where that person is. But the detective didn't know. He had to use inference, Now that you're more comfortable with Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need, and when Here are the answers. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you and when you're ready to continue, hit play. Amazing job, share your scores, and Adjectives Question one. Sarah's taste in music meant her Now I'm only going to give you 3 seconds So hit pause. Take as much time as you need, Sarah's Fickle taste in Music Question 2. The smell of freshly baked bread filled. The bakery. Pervasive. Question Three. The conference featured Eminent Question 4. The young boy's nature led Inquisitive Question 5. Chachi PT Is becoming in the workplace. Ubiquitous Question six From the top of the Vast Question 7. The novel's ending left a impact on the reader. A profound impact. Question eight she had an love of painting. Intrinsic Question 9. Safety is in the construction industry paramount. And finally, question 10. The fear of the dark seems to be So how'd you do with that quiz? Was it easy? Difficult. Don't worry if it was difficult, because now Let's do that now. Ubiquitous, ubiquitous. This means present, found, For example, smartphones are ubiquitous devices. They're found everywhere. They're found in every home, every office. So we can say smartphones are ubiquitous Paramount Paramount When something is paramount, In emergency situations, the safety of the So you know the safety of the passengers But by including the adjective paramount, you So the safety of the the passengers is more The safety of the passengers is paramount. Vast, vast. This means a very great extent or quantity. So when I hear vast, I know that the extent. Is very great. For example, the Sahara desert So of course I know there I know there are many sand the image I have in my mind And I see sand dune after sand dune after sand This means having deep insight or understanding. For example, the professors lecture on quantum I understand that the person saying this now has a very deep understanding of the topic This means spreading widely Remember we talked about how They appear everywhere. Well, as a result, we can say that social media is a pervasive part of modern society and social media like the J Force English So it's pervasive. It is spread widely and Inherent. Inherent. This means existing in something as a For example, cats have an inherent ability Have you heard that before that when a Well, this is an inherent quality. It's permanent within the cat. It's not separable from the cat. The cat didn't learn how to do this. It's just an inherent quality, This means showing a strong For example, my daughter was very Generally, someone displays being So if you're at the museum with a young child or about what they're seeing, they could also be and the posters and the information about the In my opinion, being inquisitive is a very especially when you're learning a language. I love when my students ask because it shows they're And when you ask questions you're able to form those connections So hopefully you are inquisitive when Fickle. Fickle. That's fun to say. Fickle. This means changing frequently, especially For example, the fashion industry Trends in the fashion industry One day it could be very fashionable next week they say that is the ugliest So they're very fickle about what's The fashion industry could also be fickle Maybe one day this person is the but then next week nobody's talking about that So the fashion industry and many other This means belonging naturally and For example, an intrinsic motivation to succeed So they're not motivated by winning a trophy The trophy is outside of them. They're motivated by something And just like I said that, being inquisitive So is having an intrinsic motivation if you're Well, that's an external motivation. And although it's great to have that Generally, we also need an intrinsic motivation to really push ourselves and Eminent. Eminent. This means famous and respected For example, she was awarded a prize for the field being the area of her profession. So if she is a quantum mechanic, Quantum mechanics is her field. If she is a physicist, then that is her field, And here is that her eminent contributions. So it's implying that her contributions are famous or respected within that particular field, Now that you're more comfortable with these Here are the questions. Hit pause. Take as much time as you need, and when Here are the answers. Take as much time as you need to review them. And when you're ready to continue, hit play. You did an amazing job. Share your scores from the final section where we review advanced vocabulary, more, more in the comments and I'll keep And of course, make sure you like this video, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or Now you learned a lot of but why don't we start on I have this lesson where you'll test I highly recommend you watch it right now.