Today we're going to cover a lot of stuff about outposts, but I've broken it down into 3 sections for you. You can find the sections and the time stamps below, but the first one is going to be basics. What is a weak square? How to recognize a weak square, and how to use a weak square. Then we're going to move on to intermediate stuff, like how do weak squares correlate with pawn weaknesses and king safety, and then the advanced section where we take a look at how outposts are made in real games, how they are induced on purpose for your opponent and how they are repaired when they are in your territory. Let's go. But first of all, what is a weak square? A weak square or an outpost is a square which your pawns can control but the opponent's cannot. So here we have the example of b5 being an outpost square because our pawn is controlling it, but none of theirs can. Their pawns went a little bit too far. Also, after the move pawn to f5, we can recognize that the e6 square also meets the conditions, so our pawn is protecting it, but their pawns are not. This is not true for let's say the c4 square because our pawns are protecting it but theirs at some point can. How would you recognize a weak square? It's surprisingly simple. You just take a look at what your pawns are defending. You don't need to take a look at every square on the board. Just take a look at what your pawns are defending and highlight those squares in your mind or over the board. And like that. From there, all you have to do is eliminate the ones that your opponent is controlling. For example this one. or CAN control, for example, if they push the pawn to c5, they control these two, and the green ones that remain are your possible outposts. When you get used to this way of thinking, the next step is to not just look at where your pawns are right now and what the current outputs are, but also look at where your pawns can be and the future outposts. What I mean by that is, for example, if you play pawn to b4, you will make c5 and a5 new outpost squares. That's really advanced and hard to look at, but that's the next logical step. Let's see how we use outposts. Why are they important for the game of chess? Well, we use weak squares or outposts for our pieces. Our pieces, especially our knights, love to occupy weak squares. So in this case we're looking at d5 as the outpost because our pawn is protecting it, but none of theirs can. So Nd5 was played in the game and Black attempted to challenge this knight by moving (eventually) the knight to e7 Right now they have to deal with this. So they played Qe6 and after a move like a4, Nd7. And now another critical thing about outposts to remember is that you always want to occupy it with a piece, not a pawn! Very important! If you were to play something. And they took here. It would be a terrible mistake to take with the pawn, because now this pawn is in the way of your other pieces, and this is no longer a weak square. So after they move their queen to e7, let's say we play something. They would go f5 and now Black has no problems here at all. Black has a very good center. This is why in this position we want to take with the rook, because now our rook is doing great on the outpost square and pressuring the weak pawn over here. As a small bonus, I'm going to show you how to FIGHT for an outpost. Many players, as soon as they see an outpost, they just automatically put a knight there without even thinking. But there's a smarter way to go about it usually. So in this concrete position, if you go Nd5, they just take it and we get a queen to an outpost. But that's not so good. There's going to come here, trade off the queen. That's not very strong. What would be strong, much stronger, is for there to be a knight here. So let's see how we can make that work. As a matter of fact, we could just make this very advantageous trade after Bb6, Qb6 Now we go Nd5. Why is this much stronger? Because now this knight is here permanently. if I compare those two positions, I would much rather have a knight on d5 than a Bishop on e3. A quick recap of the basic section before we move on. We covered what is a weak square. We said it's a square that your pawns are protecting and theirs are not or cannot in the future. Then we covered how to recognize it. A very easy way is to just look at what your pawns are defending and then highlight those squares and remove the ones that your opponents are protecting. You will be left with only outpost squares. we said how to use a weak square. Place a piece there, preferably a knight, and keep it there forever. Let's imagine this is some middle game position with rooks, queens on the board, everything. Would we like to go Nd4 and occupy the outpost? Not really, because again, after they take and we take we will have to occupy it with a pawn and then it's not an outpost anymore. So be careful, not all outposts you can immediately go for. So here we will either go for that outpost or we will look to trade off the bishops first and then hop into this one or make the long way around to the other one. How do weak squares correlate with king safety? Well, if you leave squares weak around your king, there's a good chance your opponent just uses them as a welcome mat for their pieces and literally just give you checkmate. So here, after Kg1, the only attempt at defense, the squares are just too weak. So after Qh2, Kf2, Bg3 This is unfortunately a checkmate because the rook is covering the e-file. A quick recap of the intermediate section before we move on. We said that the pawn weaknesses and weak squares are heavily correlated. Usually right in front of the pawn weaknesses you will find a weak square for an outpost. Then we talked about king safety and how usually it goes wrong when you're not careful about leaving squares weak in front of your king. So be careful and now we're gonna move on to the Advanced section. Now we come to the advanced section. So many of my students say this is all great, but how am I supposed to know when to stop in a real game and look for outposts? And the answer is actually pretty simple - Every time the pawn structure changes. So that might seem like a lot, but that's the only way to consistently notice all the weaknesses. So in this position, b4 was played by White to try and prevent Black from going b4, but this changes the pawn structure so automatically all the weaknesses in the position change. Not all of them, of course. This doesn't change any kingside weaknesses, but everything close to that area should be reevaluated. And if you look closely, you will see that these two became outpost squares. How did that happen? Well, whenever you move a pawn in chess, you weaken the squares that it was previously protecting or that it could have protected. So pushing a pawn 2 squares weakens 4 squares, pushing a pawn one square weakens 2 squares. This is why after b4 already, Black has an amazing plan to try and use some of these outposts. Pause the video and think about it. I'm spoiling the solution in 3...2...1... Well, the c4 square looks very nice and we want to get our knight into an outpost. So this is why our knight comes from h6 to f7 to d6 and c4. From there, our knight will be the best piece on the board, even though right now it looks like the worst one. In case you thought about Ra3 with the idea of doubling up, this is a very good idea, but unfortunately after Ra3 they have Kb2 and after Rha8 they have Ra1. This is a very good attempt and might work in some positions, but in this concrete one it doesn't. Moving on, we're gonna talk about how weaknesses are induced. So how do you actually make weaknesses for your opponent on purpose? So some of your opponents are going to make weaknesses for themselves, but sometimes you have to weaken your opponent intentionally. So in this concrete position, we have some sort of opposite side castling and we're looking to weaken the enemy kingside to get some nice place for our pieces and because the last time we covered how are weaknesses made and we came to the conclusion that they're made by changes in the pawn structure. We're going to force a change in pawn structure. That's how weaknesses are induced. You forcibly change the structure to your advantage. So in this case, h6 is a wonderful move strategically because Black does not have a good response. Whatever happens, the f6 square will become an outpost and let's prove it. So after G takes H, we already can get Ng4-Nf6 with a great knight. So G takes H doesn't work. After h6 they could try g6, but again same thing and if they just leave the pawn here, we're going to take them. And doesn't matter if they recapture with the king or with the queen after coming here. In either case, we're going to go Ng4-Nf6 with a great knight. Of course, Black isn't going to go down without a fight. So for example, after Qg5 hxg7, Qxg7, Ng4 they're not just going to let you come here, they're going to Nd7. But the point is that you're going to put a lot of pressure on this weak square now, so maybe Qf3 getting more control of that, maybe use the weakened h6 square with Rh1 and use it to double up or get a knight check in. There's a ton of stuff to do now because we created weaknesses by removing the g7 pawn, so forcibly change the structure to your own advantage Let's see a test position so you're playing as White here. Try and pause the video and forcibly change the pawn structure in a beneficial way. I'm spoiling the solution in 3... 2... 1... There's a lot of changes in pawn structure, but the one that works for you is e5. So let's just quickly take a look at the other candidates. E takes F is a change of pawn structure, but not a beneficial one. We just got rid of these two pawns and we didn't get any new outposts. Then, d5 unfortunately doesn't work tactically because they have it covered three times, we only cover it once And the final (by elimination) it has to be e5. So let's see e5. After D takes E, we could just get a knight there. And this is now an output square. If they take with the bishop, of course we take with the rook, always with the piece, never with a pawn, remember? And if from here they don't take with a pawn, if they retreat the bishop, we would just take them and they recapture. Again, we have Ne5. We could do it immediately, we could first get some more control of it, but we now have an outpost square And finally we come to how our weaknesses repaired. So we're going to learn two ways to repair weaknesses in your own camp. Inevitably by pushing pawns, you're going to create some weak squares. But it's important to know that you can minimize this damage and control it. So the first way we're going to learn is to fill up those weaknesses with pieces. So here we have some weaknesses on the light square here because we were forced to play g3 and the way to fill them up with pieces is Bd5. great move. Forking the rook and the g2 square which we want to get to. So after Rb8, Bg2 was played and now this looks a lot nicer than what we started with. Continuing we go Qd7 and now the knight also swings by to f3 making this position look a lot better. Right now white will just finish development and get a great game. But now you might say OK, but there are some weaknesses which I can't just put a piece on. For example, we're playing as Black here and we're staring down the weakness of d5 which our opponent has created and we can't really put a piece here. What now? Well the second way of repairing weaknesses would be to stop the opponents pieces from reaching those weaknesses. So in this case Ba5 is a terrific move which due to the pin prevents the knight from coming to d5 and next move after they unpin, for example, let's say Re3, we're gonna take this one off the board so there is no knight on the board anymore. So after this and this, both sides are OK. We do have a little bit of a weakness, but there's no dangerous knight. If we had played anything else at the starting position, let's say Qe8, then the knight on d5 will be there forever and cause a lot of trouble. And finally, a recap of the advanced section. We covered that weaknesses are made by a change in the pawn structure, which sometimes your opponent does voluntarily and sometimes you have to induce a change in pawn structure. And we also covered when you have weaknesses in your own camp, what are the two ways to repair them. We said number one - Fill up those squares, those weak squares, with pieces. Like that and like that and the second way - If that's not possible, then you prevent the opponents pieces from coming into those weak squares. Now we're going to move on to a few game examples and exercises to really sink this in. Example one - How does Black fix his weaknesses? There are some dark square weaknesses over here which we need to repair. Pause the video. I'm spoiling the solution in three, two, one. We fill up with pieces by means of Bf8, Bg7. From there, not only will our bishop be a lot better, but also the weaknesses will not be so weak anymore. Example 2 - How does Black take advantage of White's weaknesses? I'm spoiling the solution in 3...2...1... Black is supposed to reroute the knight to an outpost, one of these. So both of those we can get to from the c5 square So all we need to do is Nb7-Nc5 and get access to those critical points Example 3 - How would you continue as White? I'm spoiling the solution in 3,2,1. Well, you're going to notice that there are some weak squares over here, and as a matter of fact, we can get our knight there how? We use the g4 square, so we need to go Nh2-Ng4. From there we will have great access to these squares and a lot of winning chances. Example 4. White to play. Let's see what you can find. Pause the video, now spoiling the solution in 3,2,1. If you're looking at the d5 outpost with the idea of Be4-Bd5, you are on the right path, but there's a knight here. So if you go for this, immediately there's going to trade, and now you're forced to take with the pawn. When you're forced to take with the pawn, that's not an outpost anymore, so at the start We have to throw in Ne4 first, because after the trade of these knights now there is no more fight for d5 Now White will have the better of that and have a great position after e4. Example 5 - from the game Shirov - Kramnik in 2001. How would you continue with Black? Pause the video and think, I'm going to spoil the solution in 3,2,1. The idea is to create weaknesses for Wwhite because he doesn't have any at the moment. So a4 was played with the idea of (knight moves) and a3. Forcibly changing the pawn structure in White's camp to Black's advantage, giving Black the initiative and later on winning a great game. And the last example of today, I'm gonna offer you to pause the video and think about it. It's White to play. How would you continue? I'm spoiling the solution. In 3,2,1, the move is h5. Talking about &quot;future outposts&quot; at the start of the video, h5 would be an example of this where we clamp down on the g6 square with the idea of Nh4 and really trying to use those light squares later on. White won a very nice game with the combination of Nf5, Qg4 and the bishop coming in. Practice this to be able to use it in your games. Let me know what you think of the video in the comments down below. Like and subscribe if you enjoyed it and I'll talk to you very soon. Take it easy!