Welcome to this one hour English lesson to Here's my promise to you. By the end of this lesson, you're going to English speakers on TV, movies, YouTube, and Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Here's how this lesson will work. I'm going to say a sentence and you need to And I'm going to say each sentence three times. Let's get started. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. Did you get this one? I said they've been bickering all day. Let's talk about the pronunciation changes. Notice I have Dave. This is a contraction. They have Dave, Dave, Dave. Native speakers use contractions in spoken So you need to be very, very comfortable hearing of the sentence you need to have. They have been bickering because that shows perfect continuous. So if you didn't have that, it would be grammatically They've been bickering all day now. Notice I said bin bin, a very unstressed bin. This is how we pronounce the past participle I don't speak British English, but I believe stressed bean. But in American English we don't do that. We just say bin bin. They've been. They've been bickering all day. Now, to understand fast English outside of words. But you also have to understand the meaning So let's talk about the verb to bicker. This is when you argue about things that are The concept of bickering is extremely common with people we spend the most time with. Our family, our spouses, husbands and wives, our Co workers that we spend a lot of time Anytime you spend a lot of time with someone, But it's different from fighting. Because when you're fighting with someone, but when you bicker you don't really have It's less serious because the things you're important. Like I said, this can be very common in the your Co workers. So maybe you're in a meeting and you've been workers. But people start bickering, They start arguing You could say we didn't get anything done We argue bicker. Yeah, we bicker either. Yeah, well, we were bickering because they Kids are bickering. Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times that streets pretty That Streets pretty sketchy. That Streets pretty sketchy. How'd you do with this one? I said that Streets pretty sketchy. Did you hear that? Streets. The S Well, that is the verb to be in a contraction The street is the streets. The streets. Pretty sketchy. Again, it's extremely important that you hear need the verb to be grammatically. The sentence would sound very awkward if you incorrect. That street's pretty sketchy. Sketchy. Sketchy Sketchy sketchy. Let's talk about to be sketchy. That street is our verb to be to be sketchy. This is used to say that something is not So by saying that street is pretty sketchy, safe. I don't think that street is safe. So I'm saying we shouldn't go down that street. We should avoid that street. Now why would I say this street is sketchy? This is an adjective that native speakers If I say is streets sketchy, it's most likely There aren't a lot of people around, there's a lot of abandoned buildings on that street. It could be all of those reasons, or it could that street doesn't look safe. That street's pretty sketchy. I could say let's take another St. This one looks sketchy, so I can also use conjugate it. This street looks sketchy. Or let's say your friend or your husband or this amazing business proposal today. All we need to do is invest $1000 and we're sounds sketchy. So notice here the verb is to sound sketchy, business proposal doesn't sound completely We also use this to describe people. He's a sketchy guy or he's sketchy. She's sketchy. In this case, you're saying the person isn't So with people, it's a way of saying I don't She's sketchy. He's sketchy. Seems a little sketchy. You're kind of sketchy. Laundry to some sketchy laundromat. Let's try another listening exercise. I'll say it three times. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. Did you get this one? You must have seen it. But notice I didn't actually say. Have I reduced that entirely to just ah, you I could also reduce it to more of an of sound, You must have, you must have. You must have seen it. Notice for seen it. I use that that N sound to connect the 2 words Seen it, Seen it, Seen it. So you hear it in front of it. It sounds like NIT. But if you say those two words together, it Seen it, Seen it? You must have seen it. Now let's talk about the grammar of this. A must is a modal verb, and grammatically verb without two. So grammatically you need must have. In written English you must use must have But in spoken English it will sound like must But in written English, if you wrote you must So just remember what I'm explaining is for You must have seen it 2:00. You must have seen them. Here, Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? I said, what's the ETA? Of course we have what's that's a contraction Because ETA it begins with a vowel sound. EI could say either the OR the 'cause we do in a vowel. But this isn't a rule that native speakers But if I did a more stressed E in the IT would it would almost sound like it's just one word, E on ETA, the ETA. I believe in my example, when I did the listening of the ETA, and the second time I did it, Let's listen to that again and see what I What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? Now, ultimately, either way that you pronounce Now you're probably wondering, well what's This stands for estimated time of arrival. So your ETA, the ETA or someone somethings someone or something when it's expected to So let's say we're talking about a project, will arrive. In his inbox or on his desk, he could say it's obvious you're talking about the project, the one submitting the project. Or he could say what's the project's ETA, So you need that possessive. What's the project's ETA? And they all have the same meaning. We commonly use this with friends or coworkers, going to arrive. So let's say you were supposed to be at your running late. You could send them a text message and say Google says my ETA is 642 or 15 minutes. Now, Google says because when you put something you use. Google will tell you when you're expected That's your ETA. What's their ETA? OK, ETA ETA 11 minutes. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you So I'm going to say each sentence again, and loud and try to imitate my pronunciation as And I'll say each sentence three times. Let's do that right now. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? That's out of our budget. That's out of our budget. That's out of our budget. Did you get this one? I said that's out of our budget. Let's talk about the pronunciation changes. Notice that's this is a contraction of that Now we have out of. We can combine these two sounds together and That's outta our budget. RR. Notice the word is our because it's a possessive But I pronounce it just as a very unstressed Our budget our budget. But based on the context, it's obvious that fact our the possessive that's out of our Do you know what this means? The expression to be the verb to be, that So we need a possessive here, One's budget. That's another way of simply saying that something The cost exceeds what you're either willing Now of course, you have a budget for your oh sorry, that's out of our budget to say that item. But there's a budget in the workplace, for So let's say you wanted a standing desk. So a standing desk is a desk that you're able because it's more comfortable and it's better So you ask your boss, can you buy me a standing But your boss says no, and he might say, oh So this doesn't necessarily mean the company desk. But they're unwilling to buy you a standing They don't want to spend the money. So remember, it can be unable because you the money, but you don't want to spend it Sorry, that's out of our budget. I found one for sale, but it's out of my budget. Do you see a budget? I don't see a budget. Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times. Money is no object. Money is no object. Money is no object. This one was easy, right? I said money is no object. Notice at the beginning Here monies money This is a contraction. Monies. Money is no object. Now, it's important that you hear these contractions Because the expression is to be no object. Money is no object. If you don't hear that contraction, then the Grammatically, this is an expression that If you say money is no object, it means that a limitation. So basically you're saying I'm willing to It's common to use this in specific situations. Maybe it's your husband or your wife, your a very special birthday. O on this specific occasion for planning that So you might say, can you recommend somewhere Now, when someone recommends something, of so you can tell the person, and money is no the most expensive restaurant, and you're Or maybe in our last example, you asked your OK, sure, we'll buy you a standing desk so my boss is paying for this desk. So money's no object. Money is no object, as you probably know. Sure, money is no object. OK, I told you, money is no object. Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times. I'm beyond livid. I'm beyond livid. I'm beyond livid. I said I'm beyond livid for pronunciation. Just notice that contraction. I am. I'm. I'm beyond livid. What does livid mean? Well, it's an adjective that means extremely I'm livid. Now when we add beyond, this is an intensifier. So extremely angry. Livid is already very intense. But if you add beyond livid, it makes it 10 I'm extremely extremely angry. I'm beyond livid. Just remember to conjugate that verb to be Emotion. You could say I was beyond livid when my boss So here a desk reimbursement is when you pay means someone gives you that money after usually But in this case your boss denied your desk you bought the most expensive desk. Because remember, money was no object, but desk. So that's why you were beyond livid. You can use beyond to intensify any emotion, She was beyond happy when she passed her ielts. I'm beyond awful. I'm beyond scared. That is beyond exciting. Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. Her comment's been gnawing at me. Her comment's been gnawing at me. Her comment's been gnawing at me, I said. Her comment has been gnawing at me. In spoken English, it's very common to take with the subject. This is more informal, but it happens most Her comments been, her comments been gnawing So you have to hear that auxiliary verb in But the sentence structure tells you that it's required. Now, in written English, it would be more gnawing at me. But even if I were to see that in written just automatically form that contraction in Notice that pronunciation for gnawing that Her comments been gnawing at me. What does this mean? The expression is to gnaw at someone. When something gnaws at someone, it means that person. That something really preoccupies your thoughts, You can't get it out of your head. So maybe you were telling your coworker how money was no object, or so you thought. But then your boss denied your desk reimbursement You were telling this whole story to your said I told you not to buy the most expensive And that comment, what your coworker said thinking about it. It keeps bothering you and irritating you. You can't get it out of your mind. Even though it happened hours ago, days ago, Something was still gnawing at me. It's secretly gnawing away at you. No, no. Why? Why didn't he? Now let's do an imitation exercise so you how a native speaker would say each sentence. I'll say each sentence again three times, loud to practice your pronunciation. That's out of our budget. That's out of our budget. That's out of our budget. Money is no object. Money is no object. Money is no object. I'm beyond livid. I'm beyond livid. I'm beyond livid. Her comments been gnawing at me. Her comments been gnawing at me. Her comments been gnawing at me. Don't snap at me. Don't snap at me. Don't snap at me. Did you get this one? I said don't snap at me. Let's talk about Snap at. One of the ways that native speakers can speak So I don't say snap at, I say snap at PAT. So what I do is I take that P from SNAP and PAT, and then I combine them together. Snap at, SNAP at. Native speakers will also drop sounds that a sentence. If I pronounce the T on, don't I have to take say it. And this is the same thing for at. I won't say it. Don't snap at me. So I make those T's silent. I drop the T's. Now, a lot of times students don't understand verbs, idioms, and expressions, like in this What does that mean? This is literally snapping right now. I'm snapping now. Notice it happens very quickly, so when you irritable or abrupt way, so your words come negative. This happens quite frequently if we are feeling Let's say I'm working on a project that has of work left. So I feel quite anxious about this. And then my husband or friend Co worker asked I snap at them and I say I'm busy. What do you want? I can't help you and I say something very in them. Annoyance. Frustration that is snapping at someone. We do this all the time and unfortunately the receiving end of this. So a person in customer service might say I don't take it personally. You just snapped at me because I think he Be gargling well, don't snap at me. You're snapping at me again. Let's try this again with another listening I'll say it three times. It was a knee jerk reaction. It was a knee jerk reaction. It was a knee jerk reaction. Did you hear what I said? I said it was a knee jerk reaction. Let's talk about knee. Notice the K is silent. You don't hear it at all. Knee. Knee. This happens most of the time when words start The K is silent. There are many common words that start with And now knee. All of these words. The K is silent. So the word starts with AN knee. What is a knee jerk reaction? A knee jerk reaction is a reaction that happens You don't think about it. It just happens. Just like when you're at a doctor's office your knee, they hit your knee and then your Have you ever had that done? They test your reflexes, but when your leg It happens automatically. So that's where the expression comes from, And I'm sharing this expression because generally reaction. When you're busy working on a report and your you shout I'm busy, leave me alone. That is a knee jerk reaction because you didn't way. It happened automatically. So yes, you snapped at your husband, but it So you could apologize to your husband and It was a knee jerk reaction. Or is this just another knee jerk reaction It was a knee jerk reaction. You got that half right. You're not saying no is a knee jerk reaction. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. She rubs me the wrong way. She rubs me the wrong way. She rubs me the wrong way. Did you get this one? I said. She rubs me the wrong way. I think the pronunciation is clear. But this is another case where if you don't the words, you wouldn't be able to reply. So let's talk about the expression to rub This is when you annoy someone without intending You don't try to annoy anyone, but for just This often happens when people's personalities They clash, which means their personalities So I might do something that annoys you simply personality, but someone else would not be This could happen in a workplace situation great at their job, they're very skilled, you the wrong way. And it's very unfortunate for that person wrong. But if there's a conference or an event and say let's bring Marcos. Tim rubs me the wrong way. So Tim is annoying to you, but it's not Tims Maybe he is a very outgoing person and he's more of a shy, reserved person and your personality And for that reason Tim rubs you the wrong Poor Tim just rubs me the wrong way. Not Jay. Guy rubs me the wrong way. Something about always rubbed me the wrong Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. I always pick up the slack. I always pick up the slack. I always pick up the slack. How'd you do with this one? I said I always pick up the slack for pronunciation. Let's talk about pick up, because this is sounds together. So what a native speaker will do is they'll that on up. So it will sound like cup, pick up, cup pick And then you can say those two words as one pick up the slack. Now what does this mean to pick up the slack? This is when you do work. That is someone elses responsibility, but doing it and it needs to get done. So you pick up the slack. This can happen in the home, and of course But at home, everyone has their own responsibilities, Maybe you're responsible for cooking dinner up after dinner, for example. But let's say there's a situation where someone have to pick up the slack. For example, I've been picking up the slack sick mother. Now, in this case, you're probably happy with you need to pick up the slack because your is a stressful situation for her, so you're But there's other situations where maybe your to do and you end up picking up the slack For example, I'm sick of picking up everyone's And we're here picking up the slack. No worries, I'll pick up the slack. I just want to thank you for picking up the Now let's do an imitation exercise so you these new expressions. So I'm going to say the sentence again, and and I'll say each sentence three times. Let's do that. Now don't snap at me. Don't snap at me. Don't snap at me. It was a knee jerk reaction. It was a knee jerk reaction. It was a knee jerk reaction. She rubs me the wrong way. She rubs me the wrong way. She rubs me the wrong way. I always pick up the sock. I always pick up the sock. I always pick up the sock. She has her presentation down pat. She has her presentation down pat. She has her presentation down pat. Did you get this one? I said she has her presentation down pat. Maybe you noticed that has her sounded like So we often drop the H on her, has her, has She has her. She has her presentation down pat. Now what does down pat mean? To have something down pat is when you have For example, I have my YouTube video creation process as a routine. First I do this, then I do this, then I do I don't even need to think about what should I have the process down pat now. If you have an upcoming speech, presentation, practice so you can memorize what you want And then once you memorize it perfectly, you I have my speech down pat. I have my speech perfectly memorized. Have this whole Chloe thing down pat. I got my routine down pat. Generic. We've got every move down pat. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. We didn't have a lot of prep time. We didn't have a lot of prep time. We didn't have a lot of prep time. Could you dictate this one? I said we didn't have a lot of prep time. Of course didn't is a contraction of did not. We didn't have a lot of Native speakers will sound like a lot of a lot of. We didn't have a lot of prep time. Prep is short for preparation. Native speakers will take this word preparation Prep time simply means time to prepare. That is prep time. For example, the recipe looks delicious, but If there's too much prep time, it means it So you don't want to do it. You could also say I have to prep for my interview. In this case, prep is short for the verb prepare. I have to prepare for my interview. I have to prep for my interview. You know what? We get a prep prep time. Let's go go prep the patient including prep Just do it. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Thanks for re digging your schedule. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. I said Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Notice how 4 sounded like an unstressed fur. Thanks fur. Thanks for rejigging your sounds unstressed. Your your. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Let's talk about the verb to rejig. You probably don't know this. When you rejig something, you change and improve The arrangement is the order of something. So in our example, thanks for rejigging your Maybe you moved a meeting from the morning and I appreciate that. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Or maybe in a meeting you let your boss know. We rejigged the presentation. Now the video comes before the grass. So you change the order, the arrangement of The video was here and now it's here. And you're doing this because you want to We reject the presentation. Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. She spoils those kids rotten. She spoils those kids rotten. She spoils those kids rotten. Did you get this one? I said. She spoils those kids rotten when you spoil In this case, rotten is optional. You could just say spoil someone, spoil someone It means you do whatever they want you to You give them whatever they want. So when I say she spoils those kids rotten, because when kids are spoiled rotten, they a result. So this sounds like a negative thing. However, I frequently say my kitties are spoiled Now notice here the grammar to be spoiled Rotten is optional. You can use it or not use it. It doesn't change the meaning in this case It means the same thing to receive whatever very well. Just remember when we use this with children But if you say my husband spoils me rotten, my company. Those sound more positive because it sounds We won't spoil. We won't spoil them. It's so easy to please. I really hope we're not spoiling them. You sure are spoiling me lately. Now it's time for you to practice your pronunciation. We're going to do an imitation exercise. I'm going to say each sentence again, and and I'll say each sentence three times. Here we go. She has her presentation down pat. She has her presentation down pat. She has her presentation down pat. We didn't have a lot of prep time. We didn't have a lot of prep time. We didn't have a lot of prep time. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. Thanks for rejigging your schedule. She spoils those kids rotten. She spoils those kids rotten. She spoils those kids rotten. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Did you get this one? I said Maybe I'm just in a rut. Of course I'm is a contraction. I am, I'm And notice how in all sounds like In a rut. The expression here is to be in a rut. Now you can also say to be stuck in a rut. Stuck is optional. When you're in a rut, it means you've been or a task. You've been doing it too long and you feel Why are you in a rut? The same thing every day. Knowing exactly what to expect. That's a rut. So let's say every day you work all day. You eat dinner. But then at night, every night, you watch That could be your rut. We watch Netflix every night. We're stuck in a rut. We're in a rut. Are we in a rut? So to help you get out of that rut, you just So you might say, let's go to the park tonight. So instead of watching Netflix, you go to You enjoy the beautiful day to help you get You're a rider. Ruts are normal. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. How'd you do with this one? I said. My boss is stuck in his ways. Notice how boss is. We say it as one word, Bosses. Bosses. It's the exact same pronunciation as the plural I have two bosses, but here with the verb It's the exact same pronunciation, the expression Notice Waze is plural and it's one possessive. My boss is stuck in his ways. This is when someone is unwilling to change things. Kind of stuck in his ways. For example, my boss won't let me work remotely. He's stuck in his ways because he's too stuck Gloria. This is good for him. So he has a specific way of thinking about to change his thinking. Now, the same expression can also use the ways, and it has the exact same meaning. Oh, you're young. Me. I'm set in my ways. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Need a hand. Need a hand. Need a hand. This one was easy, right? I said need a hand. And notice need. Ah, sounded like one word. Need a need a hand. Need a hand? Grammatically, this is missing the auxiliary Do you need a hand? But native speakers commonly drop that and as saying need any help? Do you need any help? Exactly the same meaning. Now to answer and to accept that help you is the same as sure I could use some help. Hey Tamar, I could really use a hand in here. And if you want to request the assistance give me a hand? Can you give me a hand? And this is the same as can you help me? Can you help me? Hey Rich, can you give me a hand with this And you can give me a hand right now by liking sharing this video with your friends. That would really give me a hand. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? Did you get this one? I said, how can I get my foot in the door? Do you know this expression to get ones or This is used when you join an organization, You take a specific job that's at a low level, low level will turn into a higher position. That's getting your foot in the door. You've already got a foot in the door. For example, I'm a journalist, but I took the door. I was just trying to get one foot in the door. But you have to be careful with this strategy job five years ago to get my foot in the door, That would mean that you're still a receptionist So your strategy of taking a lower position successful. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you I'll say each sentence again, and I want you Let's do that now. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. Need a hand? Need a hand. Need a hand. How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? Did you enjoy this lesson? Do you want me to make more lessons where If you do, then put more, more, more, put keep making more lessons. And of course, make sure you like this video, you're notified every time I post a new lesson. And you can get this free speaking guide where and confidently. You can click here to download it or look And if you want to keep expanding your vocabulary I recommend this video because you'll learn right now.