Maps I find delightful. The most common dream in every country. Ooh! Enhance, enhance. All right, let's play and have you had this dream? Canada and USA, teeth falling out? Yes, that's probably my Probably at least once a month. Teeth falling out continues Norway, Poland, Spain as well. That's so interesting. I would love to know Another common nightmare is Romania, and Portugal as well. Pregnancy for Germany I really wanna know South America, people seem to be dreaming about animals a lot. And then over in Africa, I have had nightmares about Niger, death, and then sex in Nigeria. I have, yeah. (laughs) This is so interesting! Look at the snakes continuing into Asia! All right, Australia, So there is a link. UK, US, Australia, culturally and we're all dreaming I haven't looked at Middle We're back to snakes again. Who's dreaming about breast? (laughs) Just the one though. (laughs) Okay, I think this I've looked at in this series. Territories of the Roman number of years in the empire. Oh, all right. So you'd go would have the longest years, at 1550 years, and then some which I didn't really know about. You can see that the Romans of Scotland for less than 50 along all of the kind of outer borders. They didn't really hold Northern Africa for very long either, but a well over a thousand from a civilization point My hand drawn map of different All right, we'll start with British. So this is what a lot from a street perspective, and American, very, very straight lines, yeah. European's like a concentrate Indian I've not really ever seen before. French, lots of diagonals, and Chinese, very packed in with sort within the main ones, apparently. Israeli troops encircle Gaza City. Really horrible stuff happening Thousands of deaths from which is really sad. Age at which most residents of Okay, there's two slides, but the first page shows 1980 and 2000. So you can see generally back in 1980, people owned their own home whereas by the year 2000 And now 2021, it's gone up even more. In states like California, but for the majority of Yeah, I think it's even worse in the UK. We really need some 'cause the only way people are is if their gran dies and for a deposit, which is not The world according to Google Street View, a lot of the world now having coverage. Is this area in Europe Belarus? Let's double check. Yes, Belarus. No coverage. Any fortispheres? Let's have a look. Oh yeah, we we got Minsk, okay! Well, it looks all right. Everyone seems to be There's a burger van or something. Oh, I can move around! So there is actually some coverage, but it's just very limited. Yeah, I now can't move at all. Minsk looks very nice, Fonts that each state uses Oh, go on! We'll do a little enhance. Oh, well this is nice. Let's pick which one we like the best, and let's pick the worst as well. I mean, they all just kinda Nothing's blowing me away, Although Louisiana I'm Reminds me of that Microsoft when you wanted things to be a bit wacky. Utah, actually, at first with an I joined up to it, Everything else is all right. New York could have Where Americans live in England. Ooh, alright. What's going Is that like Kent area? All right, so the blue spot is Lakenheath, and apparently the reason The country of origin Japan absolutely dominating. Their car industry really Germany are obviously you can see they dominate and Russia are controlling but nowhere else, which Height of the leaders. Oh, alright. Firstly, let's work out how Oh my God, I'm ginormous! I'm 182.88, so I'm quite prime minister, but Turkey, Greece, and Bulgaria. Whoa, who's 200? Albania is a giant! Oh my god, he actually looks like a giant, but he's next to Rishi Sunak. It's like Gandalf and Frodo! Oh, look at him! (growls and laughs) Shortest, Italy, and she's also female, who are generally a bit shorter. The minimalist map. I mean, yeah, I guess that works. It's a bit off scale. I feel the Mediterranean looks way too big when you compare it to but you can see where I mean, a lot of places like have no representation at all, Central America and the non-existent now, so Poverty reduction in India. So in 2015 to 2016 it was which is very sad. Whereas now 2019 to which is actually a pretty It's still a lot of people, of course, but that is some pretty Faithlessness in the United Kingdom. This map shows the percentage as atheist or non-religious, What this shows is basically overall half of the people are not religious. Scotland's got the highest and Greater London has the lowest of 28%, which I assume is kind of London's obviously very multicultural. It's also quite a bit which I am guessing it a lot of Catholics still kicking about. Current world champions in men's sports. All right, so football, Argentina. For cricket, it's Australia. Rugby, South Africa. I have no idea rugby was It's interesting that USA particularly basketball, shared with field hockey. USA also not currently but Canada does have ice hockey, which is what you would guess. Meaning of country names in South America. This is always really interesting. So Argentina's named after silver, because the people that found it thought that there was lots of Uruguay apparently means bird river. Brazil means trees that These are so weird. I know that Venezuela because when the European there was lots of people living on houses that were on water just Who the hell is Simon Bolivia? Oh, Chile apparently which is kind of cool, 'cause on a map there's nothing else to the left. Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Denmark, looking very cool there. It looks even cooler Oh, look at that topography. (kissing) If the sea level in Okay, so at one metre we're not seeing too much of a difference. I'm reckoning that Florida Three metres, oh, there we go. Five metres. You can see Florida before our very eyes. Is anywhere else going? 15 metres right now, which Is that the Mississippi very, very rapidly disappearing? Florida is completely We can also see that California's got a big massive hole in it. Surely at 500 metres the submerged, other than maybe 120 metres now. A lot This is crazy. 160 metres, 170 metres. Oh my God. The USA is gonna get ripped apart. Look at that, it now no longer connects. We've created an island 200 metres, 300 metres now. Oh my God. Yeah, so it seems like the entire east is just gonna disappear, as expected, is gonna Oh, so actually, a lot of and doesn't really seem to get impacted. Well, hopefully that doesn't happen. Flag map of the Muslim majority countries. Well that's pretty, isn't it? Bangladesh really isolated I always forget Indonesia and Malaysia are predominantly Muslim as well, but that's a huge chunk of A lot of Asia and Africa dominated. I love Somalia just kind of hanging on from the bottom as well. States with nuclear weapons. Oh my God, Russia and the USA which makes the UK's 225 No nuclear weapons are good, let's all just put them in the bin. Very gently though, i-if possible. Etymology of state names in the US. Ah, it's another one of these. This is the origin of why every Apparently Texas means friends. Well, that's cute, isn't it? Florida is land of the flowers. Flow-rida, flowers. Makes sense. Apparently California is just Dakota means ally, north and south there. That's perhaps a bit sad. Red people is an interesting one. People of the south. Okay. Great River is Mississippi. Louisiana's named after King Louis the... I can't read that. 14th, maybe? New York is a New York. That makes sense. Washington's named after Apparently Kentucky means Iceland's most populated cities. Iceland's not a particularly Their number one is obviously which is not many at all. And their next largest has just 39,000, and I cannot pronounce any of these names. Kopavogur, Mosfellsbaer... (stammering) I'm gonna stop. I should But yeah, very quiet. I would love to go to Iceland. I can hopefully go next year. Median wealth per adult. See, the trouble with median wealth it makes places look way because the average person in the UK does not earn 150K a year. The numbers just get of millionaires and ruining everyone's average. UFO sightings by US state. Oh, Americans seem go crazy for UFOs. They really kinda hold down I would love to know of the US see more supposed UFOs than the rest of the country. It's interesting that the same line, but maybe it's so that there's too much light in the sky. I don't know. I wanna see a UFO. And on that note, let's end off the video. Thank you very much for watching. Please do subscribe. I would really like to than the population of Equatorial Guinea, and I'm a couple hundred thousand away, so let's beat Equatorial Guinea! All right, thanks. I'll see you later.