Good evening. Thank you. One year ago, I introduced my father when In his own way, and through his own sheer the political arena as an outsider. And he prevailed against a field of 16 very For more than a year, Donald Trump has been the people's nominee. Like many of my fellow millenials, I do not Democrat. More than party affiliation, I vote on based and for my country. Sometimes it's a tough choice. That is not the case this time. As the proud daughter of your nominee, I am Donald Trump is the person to make America Real change, the kind we have not seen in the system. And it's only going to come from a man who's could not be done. My father is a fighter. When the primaries got tough and they were He dug deeper, worked harder, got better and I have seen him fight for his family. I have seen him fight for his employees. I have seen him fight for his company. And now, I am seeing him fight for our country. It's been the story of his life and more It's also a prelude to reaching the goal When this party and better still this country If it's possible to be famous and yet not who raised me. In the same office in Trump Tower, where we floor by my father's desk, constructing sets, while he did the same with concrete My father taught my siblings and me the importance He showed us how to be resilient, how to deal in all that we do. He taught us that there's nothing that we passion with an enduring work ethic. One of my father's greatest talents is the they see it in themselves. It was like that for us to growing up. He taught us that potential vanishes into And like him, we each had a responsibility betterment of the world around us. Over the years, on too many occasions to count, about people whom he had never met, who were He'd write a note to his assistant, in a that the person be found and invited to Trump He would talk to them and then draw upon his them a break. And they would leave his office, as people Trump, feeling that life could be great again. Throughout my entire life, I have witnessed especially those who are suffering. It is just his way of being in your corner My father not only has the strength and ability the kindness and compassion that will enable My father has a sense of fairness that touches I worked along side of him for now more than I've seen how he operates as a leader. Making important decisions that shape careers I've learned a lot about the world from When run properly, construction sites are Competence in the building trades is easy hide. These sites are also incredible melting pots, uniting them to work towards a single mission. There have always been men of all background And long before it was common place, you also My father values talent. He recognizes real knowledge and skill when He is color blind and gender neutral. He hires the best person for the job, period. Words and promises, no matter visionary they In our business, you're not a builder, unless in my father's case, city skylines. Most people strive their entire lives to achieve My father has succeeded in many on the highest One of the reasons he has thrived as an entrepreneur Billionaire executives don't usually ask of the work. My father is an exception. TRUMP: On every one of his projects, you'll the engineers, the electricians, he'll ask should be done differently, or could be done When Donald Trump is in charge, all that counts This has long been the philosophy at the Trump At my father's company, there are more female Women are paid equally for the work that we is supported, not shut out. Women represent 46 percent of the total U.S. have female primary breadwinners. In 2014, women made 83 cents for every dollar Single women without children earn 94 cents mothers made only 77 cents. As researchers have noted, gender is no longer in this country, motherhood is. As President, my father will change the labor women were not a significant portion of the And he will focus on making quality childcare As a mother myself, of three young children, a family. And I also know that I'm far more fortunate American families need relief. Policies that allow women with children to be the norm. Politicians talk about wage equality, but throughout his entire career. He will fight for equal pay for equal work, side of him. Americans today need an economy that permits A Trump Presidency will turn the economy around giving each new generation hope for brighter that came before. In Donald Trump, you have a candidate who done and making it happen. When my father says that he will build a tower, Floor by floor a soaring structure will appear, in its design. Real people are hired to do real work. Vision becomes reality. When my father says that he will make America We have a chance this year, to reclaim our makes the impossible happen. Fortunately, Donald Trump is incapable of When I was a child, my father always told anyway, you might as well think big. As President, my father will take on the bold He will be unafraid to set lofty goals and to achieve them. To people all over America, I say, when you again have to worry about being let down. He will fight for you all the time, all the Maybe it's the developer in him, but Donald and boarded up factories. He can't bear the injustice of college graduates who can't afford of the childcare required families. Other politicians see these hardships, see for you. Only my father will say, I'll fight for The hard working men and women of this country He is tough and he is persevering. He is honest and he is real. He's an optimist and he's a relentless He loves his family and he loves his country Politicians ask to be judged by their promises, I ask you to judge my father by his results. Judge his values by those he's instilled Judge his competency by the towers he's tens of thousands of jobs he's created. He is the single most qualified serve as chief My father will call upon the best and brightest side of the aisle. A new set of thinkers, to face our countries and brave new solutions. Come January 17, all things will be possible We can hope and dream and think big again. No one has more faith in the American people He will be your greatest, your truest and This is the fighter, the doer that you have this moment in the life of our country has man. He is ready to see it all the way through, every background, in every part of this great To earn your trust and to earn your vote. He earned that and much more from me a long I've loved and respected him, my entire And I could not be more proud tonight, to and our next President, Donald J. Trump.