Today, I'll be sharing 7 small daily that can make your life They are small habits, but are so powerful Honestly, I have to say--I "love" this video. Just like in my previous videos, these so let's get started! Do you know the meaning of &quot;arigatou-Arigato-&quot;? You probably do--"Thank you," right? Exactly! "Arigato" is a word But did you know the hidden meaning behind it? Knowing this might change your life! Let me get straight to the point. The deeper meaning of "Arigato" is &quot;a miracle.&quot; In kanji, "Arigato" is written as [You Nan ] . So, "Arigato" literally means, In other words, it's something So, the real meaning of "Arigato" is Next time you have a chance to say thank Not just say "Thank you" casually, but "Arigato..." Thank you. You can feel the power of words, right? even more appreciated. And here's another insight. Since "Arigato" means something precious, do It's &quot;taking things for granted.&quot; When we take things for granted, But here's the truth--I believe that waking up breathing, and having someone At least for me, surviving dying made me realize that being The truth is, every little Thank you! From today let's keep this deeper meaning in our mind! So, thank you, as always, for watching. 2. Respect the Space Have you ever seen Japanese athletes bow when entering or leaving the This gesture is all about When I was in elementary school, I played soccer. until we were completely exhausted. But no ended practice the same way--lining up together So, why do we show respect to the space? Because being able to give our to our own efforts--it was possible In a previous video, I talked about be grateful for the blessings we receive. In By bowing, we express that gratitude to the field, It makes me feel humble and And this isn't just limited to sports a store, your office--any space you're in. I'm planning to make this a regular habit Let's try it together! 3. Wiping the Table Many Japanese people, after eating at a leaving. Why? Because they're thinking You might think, "Isn't that the staff's job?" But if you take a moment to wipe it and the next person who sits It creates a ripple effect--happy staff, happy customers, and you feel good for doing Japan is often praised for being clean, and I believe it's small actions like this from So, next time you're at a restaurant, try wiping everyone watching this video did that, we 4. Laugh Often -There is no race as easily -The residents are endlessly cheerful. -Watching them, you'd think there was Surprised? These are words from 200 years ago, describing how joyful and It seems that people in Japan used to Japanese people don't laugh as much... but Let's laugh. Laugh at the smallest things, like a and it's a simple way to make While traveling the world last year making matcha, I realized something--the universal When you smile, the world 5. Open Your Windows in the Morning 'You need to open the windows in the morning! That way, the golden god of THis is a saying that my In Japan, it's been a tradition for a long time and my great-grandmother would open There are two main reasons for this. First, opening the windows lets fresh morning air flow into the house. Breathing in that Second, by doing this, you welcome a golden I'll talk more about who this goddess just remember--open your window first thing in the 6. Sunbathing in the Morning &quot;Thank you for always watching over us.&quot; This is something old Japanese people used Afterward, they would spend Nowadays, many Japanese people no longer do this, but I think it's a wonderful 1. Sunlight makes you happy When you get sunlight, your which boosts your mood. Just by being 2. It helps you sleep better Sunlight helps reset your internal clock. 15 hours after being exposed to ever since I started sunbathing in the morning, 3. It reminds you of gratitude We often take the sun for granted, but receive. Without the sun, So, today, let's take a moment 7. Tadaima (I'm Home) &quot;Tadaima~! You've probably heard this word in anime or While it's usually translated as "I'm home," &quot;Tadaima&quot; can also be broken down as Have you ever felt regret about the I get it. I've been there too. But here's the thing: We can't go back future. The only time we truly And that's what &quot;Tadaima&quot; reminds us: the So, if you ever find yourself feeling take a deep breath, close your Slowly open your eyes, and welcome And I'll be here to say: "Okaeri."--Welcome back. Here I am talking about Japanese customs like I know better but,I'm not perfect either. Not at all. Yesterday my face was like this I want to say you should smile! But I keep trying, one step at a time, to embrace these good habits and make them part of my life. So let's work together to make tomorrow a little better than today, both for ourselves and for the world. Thank you so much for watching my channel! Arigatou! Bye bye!