Hey astronomers, Phil Plait here. In our last of gas, dust, and upwards of hundreds of billions gigantic disk galaxy with sprawling spiral arms. But those are classifications based on shape. and sometimes even on their location and mass! back, and look at the environments in which And if you thought galaxies were big and powerful, In the 1960s, a peculiar object was found. looked like an unassuming blue star, but through with light, a luminous powerhouse. Stars didn't blast The mystery deepened when spectra of 3C273 entire galaxy, and not just any galaxy, but light years. Far from being some dim thing, object in the Universe ever seen at that time. It blasts And yet it appears star-like, a mere dot in "quasi-stellar radio source", which is energy source in the entire cosmos! Happily, admit, is way cooler. Once 3C273 became known, lots more such objects launched into space even more energetic point are a very high-energy flavor of light, and galaxies like these were even found to be blasting out Clearly, these were no regular galaxies. Astronomers and classified them into various subcategories and what kind of spectra they had. But what could power these immensely energetic of energy, you need to have an object with has a lot of gravity? [evil chuckle] In the 1980s, astronomers were getting suspicious holes in their cores. In fact, one of the and launched was to explore this idea, and as it could about - these black holes. Over time, we've found this idea is absolutely have a huge black hole in its heart. Even times the Sun's mass, and some tip the cosmic We now think that these supermassive black the material coalesces to create a galaxy, hole there; it grows as its host galaxy does. But I can hear you thinking, "Hey, Phil, even light itself? How could they power active Ah, you can't escape from a black hole once black hole's event horizon things can still If a black hole is sitting all by its lonesome matter, like gas, dust, or even whole stars, by the fierce gravity. This material forms matter swirling madly at ferocious speeds drain. Stuff closer to the black hole orbits faster in the disk rubs together, and heats up, just them up via friction. But around a black hole Try rubbing your hands together at a couple and see how much heat you make. So friction and other forces heat the material that it blasts out light across the electromagnetic galaxies! The black hole is the energy source, light bulb. Active galaxies are so bright Not only that, but some active galaxies have rotation of the accretion disks can launch from the black hole, along the poles of the for hundreds of thousands of light years. the thin material between galaxies, but when swabs which glow in radio waves. Active galaxies can look pretty different due to our viewing angle on their accretion in the disk blocks the intense highest-energy radiation from the disk heats up clouds of a bit to out line of sight we see more optical poles are aimed right at us, all that ridiculously The Milky Way has a supermassive black hole times the Sun's. That might sound huge, of stars in it. The black hole is only a teeny Way. Our black hole is quiescent, that is, not galaxy. Every now and again we'll see a or something like that, but nowhere near what's appear to be safe from any tantrums it might But that may not always be the case. One way to monster is through galactic collisions. be dumped into their centers where it can lot of evidence that active galaxies are disturbed, So, could that happen to us? Yes. Yes, it can. In fact, it will. But not To understand that, we have to take a small A few million light years, and take a look Our Milky Way isn't alone. It's part of boring astronomical nomenclature tradition dozen galaxies, most of which are small and them! Two galaxies completely overpower the The Local Group is elongated, almost dumbbell Andromeda on the other. In the past, the Local Group probably had two big galaxies ate them all, growing huge. stars, but honestly we're both pretty big And, someday, we'll be bigger. The Andromeda galaxy is about 2.5 million can be seen by the naked eye on dark nights, aid. Spectra taken of Andromeda reveal an us. Its spectrum is blue shifted, meaning it's a clip: about 100 km/sec. That's fast, but collision is inevitable, but it won't happen When it does, but galaxies will stretch out streamers of stars. They may pass by each next few hundred million years they'll slow, then form one, much larger galaxy, probably "Milkomeda." I know, that's awful. But if you can come Anyway, although this won't happen for billions dies. The Earth may still be around when the happen to us; the Sun may continue to lazily move farther in toward the center or farther And here's another fun fact: Andromeda has has 40 million solar masses, ten times the two monsters will probably go into orbit around dust left over from star formation during Milkomeda, where the two black holes will into an active one! Hopefully, any death rays But that won't happen for like four billion the fate of the Earth at that point. I feel that right now is a good time to give very big step. Up to this point in the series millions or billions of kilometers to the and then jumping to thousands of light years - when talking about the galaxy itself. But those distances are as nothing when you about to venture out into the greater Universe, When we step outside our Milky Way, we find to form The Local Group. But as we look farther tend to clump together on larger scales as but sometimes they aggregate into much larger A typical galaxy cluster is a few tens of thousand of galaxies. The nearest one to us light years away in the direction of the constellation in it, maybe twice that much. It may have Like star clusters, galaxies in galaxy clusters gravity, and move through the cluster on long complete. Thousands of clusters are known, and they ellipticals, irregulars, peculiars, active galaxy sits right at the very center. This smaller galaxies; when they smack into each tend to cancel out (like two cars hitting center. As more mass falls to the center, As mind-boggling as all this is, we're not not only do galaxies clump together in clusters, groups called superclusters! A supercluster it up, and are hundreds of millions of light Our Local Group is near the Virgo Cluster, Recent observations indicate the Virgo Supercluster larger Laniakea Supercluster, which may have million light years. This new result is a to know exactly how big such a structure is, it gives you an idea of the vast sizes and Superclusters themselves aren't just randomly appear to fall along tremendously long interconnected appear almost foamy on the biggest scales, vast regions relatively empty of galaxies, This cosmic large scale structure -- its -- holds clues to some of the biggest questions How did it start? What is its eventual fate? These are questions we'll get to in future stretch your mind like nothing you've ever But before we wrap up, there's one more When you look at all these pictures of galaxies, pops up: How many galaxies are there? Can To help answer that question, back in the They pointed it toward the emptiest part of no stars, nebulae, or galaxies in it. They from whatever it could see, letting light could be detected. And what did it find? Wonder. Pure, simple, wonder. Oh, yeah, and This is the Hubble Deep Field. Mind you, the as the apparent size of a grain of sand held yet in that tiny section of sky there are you see in that image is a galaxy, a huge The deep field was repeated in different parts same. Crowds of galaxies, jostling for position, heavens. You can count all the galaxies in these deep the entire sky, giving you the total number And what do you get? Well, give or take - a A hundred. Billion. And each with billions The Universe is mind-crushingly huge. And about it all the time. It's easy to think the Universe is too big insignificant in comparison. To me, the opposite cosmos that makes us significant. We yearn doesn't make us small. It makes us vast. Today you learned that active galaxies pour black holes gobbling down matter. Galaxies smaller groups and larger clusters. Our Milky day collide with the Andromeda galaxy. Clusters the largest structures in the Universe. In in the Universe. Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.