The first century BC was a time of great men Great, but destructive men such as Sulla, Caesar. Each individually had the skills and abilities they were often in conflict and the conflict destruction of the Republic which had lasted This is the story of the Great Roman Civil In order to fully understand how the Great Civil War, began, we need to grasp the cultural Since the mid-2nd century BC the Roman Republic of the Gracchi brothers, who had campaigned Their deaths underlined the growing social in Rome, and the instability carried on into the Social war with Italian allies, and ultimately start of the first century BC. Those two showed the political rift between the Populares like Marius, and those who believed such as Sulla. Moreover, their war had exposed flaws in the could be easily subverted through military Though after his victory Sulla had, as Dictator, following in his footsteps, the precedent on Rome, take it by force, and impose his If enough soldiers were personally loyal to do little to curtail that man's power. Furthermore, the Republic's constitution, proving to be one of the crucial factors in able to paralyze the government by blocking Often it took either a dictatorship or martial It was in this political environment that Consisting of Crassus, Pompey and Caesar the majority of the era. Crassus was an established politician and and paying bribes as necessary. Pompey was Rome's most accomplished general. Following the Social War, he fought alongside in Sicily, Africa, Pontus and Syria. This brought him large amounts of wealth, of thousands of veterans. Caesar, at 41 years old, was the youngest He had held the positions of quaestor and in Spain. However, Caesar was pontifex maximus, the Through this office, Caesar had the power due to signs from the gods. Additionally, as one of the leaders of the himself as a populist, and had significant By 59 BC the Triumvirate was established. Caesar was already indebted to Crassus, and marrying his daughter Julia to Pompey. Though never an official coalition, these the Republic. Crassus influenced the Senate and aristocracy, Pompey's military prestige effectively gave would vote. And Caesar could control the masses. With the support of Pompey and Crassus, Caesar immediately passed land reform legislation ratified Pompey's Eastern conquests. Initially, following Caesar's consulship, pastures in Italy rather than a governor of However, the Triumvirate was able to overturn of Illyria, Cisalpine Gaul and Transalpine of 5 years as opposed to the usual one. Though it is clear that the Triumvirates did it did benefit Rome in some ways, pushing of veterans, without risk of the Senate creating In this same year, Clodius Pulcher became Clodius had given up his patrician status a number of populist reforms with the support of a grain dole. Clodius had also learned how effective violence trained gangs who would harass and assault was even able to force the influential Cicero After just one year of Clodius and his gangs that the Triumvirate would not be able to Clodius had even gone so far as to attempt recalling Cicero from exile. In response, Pompey allowed another tribune, to counter Clodius'. No weapons were meant to be allowed in Rome, daggers and swords, employing thugs and even For the next few years, the two tribunes and Rome was in chaos. In 56 BC Pompey and Crassus forced the extension meaning that his term would now total 10 years, to Rome to ensure their election to the consulate However, soon after, the Triumvirate began In 54 BC Julia died in childbirth, severing In 53 BC Crassus embarked on his disastrous Battle of Carrhae. Moreover, the following year, Clodius was With Clodius dead and the Triumvirate broke, powerful men in Rome. Chaos in the city only increased, as during a riot. His body was taken to the Senate house to itself was destroyed. In desperation, the Senate turned to Pompey. In 52BC Pompey was named sole Consul and given Soldiers were marched into the capital, trials This was ruthless but effective, and order The Senate awarded Pompey with an extended powers similar to those that Caesar held in Pompey decided to leave the governance of His quelling of the riots had bought him the he was not willing to give up such power and The Senate had their own ambitions. With Clodius dead, Caesar was left as the Cato and other Senators were becoming increasingly his popularity and march on Rome. He was, in the Senate's mind, a threat to The more this was said, the more Pompey agreed. When the Triumvirate was first formed, Pompey However, Caesar's Gallic Wars allowed him masses, and a core of loyal, battle-hardened Caesar had grown his army to around 10 Legions, what he had originally been assigned. Moreover, the majority of these legions had in battle, and thus would undoubtedly be loyal It had taken Sulla only six legions to march could do the same. As a result, the Senate, and in particular an anti-Caesar alliance in the Senate, mainly With Pompey and Caesar already positioned men in Rome, the Senate turned to Pompey to threat. Caesar was simply too powerful: His army was popularity was too great for him to be defeated At this time in 52 BC Caesar was still governor of consul in absentia for the year 48BC, his With 52BC being such a chaotic year with riots with little thought, but now presented a problem. Holding the office of governor or consul gave If he ran in absentia for the consulship, and his legal immunity would continue. Moreover, he would be able to use this term It was undeniable that Caesar had committed violence against a fellow consul, as well in Gaul and Britain that were not authorized The Senate could not defeat Caesar militarily, A solution was needed. Cato had already made it clear that given himself. All that was needed was for Caesar to be a To achieve this, in 52BC Cato ran for consulships power to deprive Caesar of his command. Cato lost, however, and Caesar's governance For the next two years, the Senate, headed resignation, whilst the Caesarean, headed blocked and vetoed such legislation. Through a somewhat contrived reading of the Caesar's term, the Senate insisted that to relinquish his command. Caesar refused, knowing that as soon as he him put on trial. He also knew that his governorship was, in continue it until the previously agreed date In December 50BC, Pompey offered to resign The Caesareans opposed this, insisting that Neither side was willing to be exposed. That same month, Caesar marched with one Legion attempting to negotiate, again insisting that he. Whether Caesar marched his Legion to Ravenna as an actual threat, is not clear. However, rumours spread that Caesar, in fact, To the Senate, it appeared Caesar was attempting In response, they again ordered him to step start amassing legions to defend Rome. Caesar, once again, attempted to negotiate. He offered to resign his governorship of Transalpine Legions, but requested to keep governorship the original deadline - the end of 49BC - and hoping to extend his legal immunity. However, this was still a reasonable deal aim of severely limiting Caesar's power Cicero acted as a mediator for the deal and and one province. Pompey was willing to accept, however, key refused the deal. Not an idealist, Pompey was viewing the Optimate Optimates like Cato and Lentulus hated the On the 7th of January, the Senate voted again and armies. Once again, Caesar's Tribunes in the Senate, The Senate had expected as much and passed an un-vetoable act that suspended all laws declaring a national emergency, and they declared The Consuls for the year, Lentulus and Marcellus, all their powers to Pompey, effectively giving That same night, Caesar's allies in Rome The stage was now set. After years of attempted negotiations, a complete The division between the two parties, the that had led to the deaths of the Gracchi, The Populares largely consisted of younger Mark Anthony, Trebonius and Curio, or lesser Brutus. The Pompeiian Optimates, on the other hand, including Pompey's two sons, Gnaeus and Sextus, of the famous Scipio Africanus, Cato the Younger, The societal rift between these two groups, years ago with the deaths of the Gracchi, once again. On the 10th of January 49BC, Caesar left Ravenna They halted at a small river that marked the It was forbidden for any general to cross so would be a clear declaration of war. Caesar spent a long time weighing his options. Caesar's own family had been persecuted War, he knew well how destructive such wars However, he also knew that if he disbanded After almost a day's deliberation, Caesar Alea iacta est - the die is cast. The Great Roman Civil War had begun. Following the crossing, Caesar had moved with key locations in Northern Italy in a matter There was little resistance; these cities any significant force, and there were many and the Optimates. As he went, he sent orders to his Gallic Legions him. In Rome itself, there was mass confusion. Pompey may have thought that if Caesar was from Gaul. He hesitated and did not know whether to defend or abandon the peninsula altogether. If Pompey had reacted quickly, he may have Caesar, stopping the war before it truly began. However, conflicting reports kept Pompey in just one under-strength Legion with him. Though Pompey could levy large numbers in in the area: the veteran 1st Legion and the Both had recently been handed over by Caesar The 1st, having been raised by Pompey could 15th was raised by Caesar and its loyalty Most of Pompey's best Legions were abroad Pompey knew he could not risk being trapped for. He had the resources of the Republic at his war. As a result, Pompey made the difficult decision With him went the majority of the Senate, Plutarch wrote that many Romans considered Cassius Dio gives a much more divisive picture this Pompey had made an enemy of his supporters. Moreover, in the rush to evacuate the city, were abandoned. For Caesar, this was ideal. With the city and treasure undefended, he focusing instead on trying to catch Pompey, off support for the Pompeians and rally more Despite this fortuitous start, Caesar also war. When the Final Act had been passed by the in Rome, including Mark Anthony and Curio, However, one of Caesar's lieutenants was Labienus. Labienus was still in Gaul when Caesar crossed would have wanted Labienus to march his Gallic there. Instead, Labienus disavowed Caesar, promising Gaul with a personal bodyguard to join Pompey. This was a blow to Caesar personally and militarily, and a highly capable general, who was familiar Pompey and Caesar. Despite Labienus fleeing Gaul, Caesar's towards Italy. Two of the closest Legions, the 8th and 12th, to support their general. As Caesar continued his push south, Pompey raise an army in the South. He still had the veteran 1st Legion, the 15th ordered many cities to raise levies against However, one man, Domitius Ahenobarbus, decided Counter to Pompey's orders he took 30 newly to Corfinium, an important crossroads town. By the time Caesar reached Corfinium, the giving him 3 battle-hardened Legions. Faced with such a formidable force, the Pompeian They implored Ahenobarbus to surrender, and Caesar showed clemency to both the levies Ahenobarbus was pardoned, but he quickly returned fight. The levies, on the other hand, were made to 16th and 17th Legions, swelling his numbers a battle even being fought. He immediately sent these men to prepare for he continued south. Caesar's leniency at Corfinium gained him would be no popular uprising against him on a further 3 Legions, the 18th, 19th and 20th, Pompey now had to change his plan. He knew that he would no longer be able to He abandoned his plan of fighting Caesar in Brundisium, preparing to evacuate from the He would go across the Adriatic and into Greece, and loyal, would join him, and he would be cities of the East. Moreover, he had numerous legions in Hispania, in Italy. But first, he had to escape. Caesar needed to move fast. If he could catch Pompey in Southern Italy, much as had happened to Spartacus decades As he pursued Pompey into the South, he continuously from command if Pompey would do the same. All such offers were refused: Pompey legally was now a criminal. The time for negotiations was long gone and the envoy's true intention was likely to continue continued to chase the Senate. In early March, Caesar and his 6 Legions caught By the time that Caesar arrived, Pompey had across the Adriatic. Caesar wasted no time, immediately besieging across the harbour to block it. In response, Pompey built large towers on engineers to hamper their progress. The strategy was effective, and Caesar's in time. Pompey's navy returned from Greece and, remaining force from the city. Once in Greece, Pompey marched to Thessalonica. He established his base, levying new Legions he had made in the East, gathering Roman Legions Meanwhile, he sent subordinates to Sicily, suppliers of Rome. Pompey would mobilise forces from across the Italy, cutting off the grain supplies and It had taken Caesar just 3 months to force Despite this, Caesar's initial plan to end Senate, had failed. With Pompey's escape, and with no ships disappeared. Caesar began preparing for a prolonged war. He first marched on Rome, entering in a triumph. Quickly, he convened what was left of the save the Republic and declaring Pompey an He also plundered the treasury and temples newly acquired Legions, and issued orders him to gather at Brundisium. These ships would take at least a year to for long. He realised that he could not risk being trapped flank. Spanish Legions constituted a significant a threat to Gaul. Furthermore, with Pompey in the East, the in Caesar's words "an army without a leader". Caesar would attack Pompey's force in the in detail before turning to Pompey. To achieve this, he sent one of the newly Valerius to Sardinia, and two Legions, likely Together, they were to take control of the the grain supply. Sardinia was currently held by Cotta on behalf Cotta had no real force to speak of, and as of Caralis heard that Valerius was en route no sense in attempting to resist the Caesareans. Cotta fled to Africa, and Valerius quickly Cato in Sicily had attempted to make better but had also not been provided with any Legions He too saw a fight against two Legions with to abandon the province, joining Pompey in With the islands taken without any resistance, Sicily and prepared for the attack on Africa. Meanwhile, Caesar, after spending less than and 19th and began his march to Spain, leaving 12th and 13th Legions in Italy to recover, Caesar himself aimed to march through Gaul way. However, Ahenobarbus, who had previously attempted been dispatched by Pompey to Gaul and he was an important city on the route to Spain. Caesar arrived at the city before Ahenobarbus already closed and the Massilians preparing help and collecting in grain. Caesar attempted to negotiate with the Massilians neutrality in the war. However, once Ahenobarbus did arrive they in order to bolster their supplies. With their force numbering approximately 8,000 siege, something Caesar simply did not have He needed to be in Spain, not bogged down As such, he left the 3 legions with Trebonius proved his knack for naval command against Caesar then continued to Spain with a bodyguard Another Legate of Caesar's, Fabius, had a foothold in Spain, taking control of the Soon another 3 legions from Gaul, as well Caesarion forces would have been approximately 6,000 cavalry, all veterans of the Gallic Now united, they began to push past the Pyrenees The Pompeian forces in Spain were just as Spain had been assigned to Pompey as his province to three of his Legates: Marcus Varro was Afranius and Marcus Petreius each had almost as well as experience fighting in Iberia during Afranius and Petreius would take 5 Legions Varro would defend Further Spain with two In total, by Caesar's account, Afranius legionaries, 8,000 auxiliaries, and perhaps The Pompeian forces had encamped in a strong the River Sicoris, just outside the hilltop - a key access point into the peninsula. When Fabius arrived with Caesar's Legions, impossible given the Pompeians strong position, across the river, 6km apart, and also encamped As the Pompeians had arrived beforehand, they supplies, forcing Fabius to send foraging bank. These foraging parties and their escorts often there was no major conflict. However, on one of these occasions, Fabius forage, with a strong cavalry escort to follow storm swept in, destroying the bridge nearest The cavalry was stuck on the western bank, eastern bank. Afranius wasted no time in seizing upon such and all his cavalry across the stone bridge The Caesarean Legions were well trained and on high ground with the foraging party in Heavily outnumbered, the Caesarean forces from all sides by Pompeian infantry and cavalry. Despite their discipline, it would only be and the soldiers were slaughtered. Fortunately, Fabius had also reacted quickly across the river via the second bridge 6km Upon their arrival, the Pompeians broke off without their full force. They returned to camp, allowing the Caesareans The sources do not give us an idea of how but it is likely given the situation that more than the Pompeians. A couple of days after this engagement, sometime bodyguard. Fabius, despite the prior engagement, had the Pyrenees, established a foothold, and Nonetheless, Caesar quickly took control of first bridge started by Fabius and then going Leaving just 500 men in the first Fabian camp, the town of Ilerda, offering battle to Afranius. Afranius did bring his force out of camp, to attack. He was no fool, and would not sacrifice his Seeing that Afranius would not be drawn into in three lines just 200m from Afranius' The first two acted as a screen whilst the camp. The plan worked, and Caesar's force was the night. The next day, he expanded on the defences, the other 3 acting as a defensive line. Afranius tried to use his force to harass were able to prevent them from doing any real With the camp now fully fortified, Caesar camp to join him in the new camp. Caesar soon noted a mound between Afranius' fortify it, thereby cutting off Afranius from Starving out an enemy by such tactics was tried something very similar at Gergovia against Gathering 3 legions, the 9th, 14th and likely Caesar first sent the vanguard of the 14th and hold it while the rest of Caesar's Legions However, Afranius was quick to react, sending Afranius' men gained the top first and with men of the 14th to retreat back to their standards. Afranius reinforced his men and attempted men and beginning to push the now shaken 14th Caesar himself notes how fiercely Afranius' Long campaigns against Iberian tribes had fighters, who fought in a looser formation Caesar's right flank began slowly giving higher ground. Seeing his line on the brink of breaking, right flank, pushing back the Pompeian forces. The Pompeians quickly retreated to a stronger the high ground outside the walls of Ilerda. The 9th Legion, thinking the Pompeians were caught in a precarious situation. The slope of the hill that Ilerda was situated them to a hail of missiles from the Pompeians The fighting was bitter, with each force sending For 5 hours the two forces struggled on the In a last bid to salvage the situation, Caesar pushing over the crest of the slope and forcing With the crest of the slope gained, Caesar's and charged between the forces, allowing Caesar's camp. In Caesar's account, he portrays this as wounded, compared to 200 Pompeiians dead. The reality is that Caesar lost the day. Given the situation that Caesar's Legions it is far more likely that Caesar's men Moreover, Caesar had failed to take the mound Instead, by the end of the day, the Pompeians This was Caesar's first fight against other He had underestimated them, overcommitted Caesar's situation then continued to worsen. A second storm brought a huge flood down the by himself and Fabius. Caesar was cut off from his supply line, and Afranius, on the other hand, had an abundance to Fabius' arrival, as well as control of Caesar did have supplies and almost 6,000 en route from Gaul, but with control of the to attack them, killing 200 and forcing the Caesar's campaign in Spain seemed to be He was stuck in the middle of enemy territory, and the precious supplies they were bringing, If he was to reclaim the situation, Caesar bank of the river Sicoris and secure his supply With the bridges unable to be repaired due Caesar came up with a different plan. He began construction of several small boats of lightweight timber and animal hides. He then ordered a small detachment to take up the river. These men then crossed the river, fortifying on the eastern bank. Once this was established, a Legion was sent to construct a bridge from the western bank, the eastern bank. Within days of beginning, they had the bridge eastern bank and Caesar's camp, stabilising from Gaul to meet up with his Legion encamped With this influx of troops, particularly the able to harass Pompeian foraging parties on of the situation. While the Ilerdan campaign was underway, the For the most part, the siege had thus far his time amassing a larger navy, and the Romans ships blockaded the port. But once his fleet was suitably built up, hoping to break the blockade and thus bring He had managed to put together a force of manned by archers, against Brutus' 12. The Massilian ships were also lighter and ships that the Legions had built. However, Brutus did have the advantage in Ahenobarbus' men were largely farmers and allied archers, while Brutus' ships were volunteered for the task. If Brutus could catch Ahenobarbus in close As the fleets met, the Massilians used their the Caesarean ships and peppering them with decks with arrows and smash his oars. But when the Massilians got too close in this grappling hooks, pulling the Massilian ships In these situations, the Legions had a clear Their heavy armour and training allowed them occasion even boarding two Massilians ships Though Caesar notes the bravery of the Massilians, to hand with legionaries like this. The Massilians were forced back into port the blockade continued. This victory at Massilia coincided with a With the new bridge completed Caesar's superior foragers, and were even able to force them The odds were turning in Caesar's favour. As a result, numerous local tribes began supporting Seeking to apply even more pressure to Afranius, to divert the river Sicoris and create a ford more of his men easy access to the eastern to the bridge up the river, thus completely Afranius recognised how precarious his situation Running out of food and with local tribes to surround his position, he decided to make continue the fight on his own terms with the Afranius ordered a few ships on the River to the south, providing an escape route. At the same time, Afranius ordered two Legions establishing a fortified position in preparation When Caesar learned of this, he saw his opportunity He ordered his men to work day and night on level enough to move his cavalry across the However, the Pompeian Legions had been quick the cavalry to do. Afranius then moved his full force across two auxiliary cohorts to garrison Ilerda itself. In the early hours of the following morning, army out of camp and to the south, heading Caesar needed to act fast. If the Pompeians could reach the pontoon bridge, merging with Varro's legions and prolonging He first sent his cavalry to harass the Pompeians, the Pompeian Legions to a crawl as they fended Though the ford was not wholly completed, river to help slow the current, and marched guard the camp. Taking these legions, Caesar marched quickly and, thanks to the harassment of the Caesarean up with the Pompeian Legions. Both armies were now camped on the eastern than the Caesareans. Scouts for both sides reported that the only passes, just under 8km away. Whoever controlled these passes would easily a brief standoff ensued. Afranius did not want to risk attempting to with Caesar pursuing him, and Caesar did not to the mountains. Afranius did consider attempting a night march cavalry patrolling the area at night, they Night battles were extremely risky and difficult, instead to attempt a fighting retreat the Caesar, meanwhile, had also concocted a plan. At first light, he feigned a withdrawal to direction, marching quickly for the mountains. Seeing this maneuverer, the Pompeians immediately The Caesarean route was a harder march, with the Pompeian forces found themselves constantly once again, to be the difference. Caesar reached the passes first, drawing his escape. Afranius tried sending light auxiliaries to force, but the Caesarean cavalry was quickly they were easily cut down. With his opportunity to escape cut off, Afranius hill and contemplate his next move. Caesar was happy to let him do so and saw another battle. With the road south now blocked, it would out of food and water. The Pompeians could try and retreat back to camp would be able to cross the ford and block could attack them from behind. If the Pompeiians stayed, they would eventually If they retreated, they would be caught in Caesar fortified his position, setting up enemy's next move. Afranius' priority was to secure his water He had sent men to the river to gather water, the Caesarean cavalry. In response, his Legions had built a rampart to collect water from behind the defences, As the Caesarean troops also came to the river to the other. Caesar's Legions contained many Iberians, about family, friends, and discussed the politics Old friends and acquaintances from both sides drink and reconnect. Some of Afranius' Spanish allies, and even to speak with Caesar personally. Caesar attributes these actions to his not the day prior, and that the Pompeians saw While this might be true to an extent, the forces understood the situation they were would be starved into defeat, and they were Afranius did little to quell such stirrings. It seems that he too had lost the desire to Petreius, however, had not. To restore discipline in the camp, he demanded army, and then ordered any Caesarean soldier There had been a brief moment of peace in just the day before had been fighting each But now the peace was broken. The soldiers returned to their respective In a last-ditch attempt to retake control back to Ilerda. The entire way the Pompeians were harassed legions, blocking them from crossing the Sicoris gruelling pace. On the third day of this harassment, the Pompeians terrain. Caesar saw his opportunity and began work camp, a similar tactic to Alesia, cutting Blockaded on all sides, devoid of water and finally sued for peace. Caesar, never one to miss out on a public all the men and officers, including Afranius surrender of the army and the promise that The Pompeians gratefully accepted. With the surrender of this main Pompeian army, and 14th, to accompany the Pompeians to a back to Italy. Caesar, meanwhile, took the 10th and 7th into Varro, who had initially been encouraged by Ilerda, had been gathering more forces, raising four. When news came to him of Caesar's victory Gades, where he planned to hold out and prolong However, news of Caesar's victory at Ilerda writing on the wall. The chiefs of local tribes met Caesar at Corduba of the Gades closed the gates of the city To make matters worse, one of Varro's legions colours. Having lost the support of his army and the was ready to surrender. Quintus Cassius Longinus was assigned as governor Varro's four legions, making them the 21st, Pompey's entire Spanish army had now either after just a couple of months. Taking his two veteran Legions, the 7th and forces at Massilia. The siege of Massilia was still ongoing. Trebonius, who had been left in command of trenches, walls and towers blocking off the Brutus maintained the blockade from the sea, The city would not be easy to take though. Its position was ideal for defence, funnelling was protected by high, strong walls, topped Trebonius had ordered the construction of but the Massilian ballistae and numerous sorties construction of their engines and had, so city's walls. The Massilians had also made repairs to their the number of warships back up to 17. However, most of these ships were refitted lightly armed archers. The Massilians simply could not afford to the ships. Fortunately for them, however, Pompey had These were commanded by Lucius Nasidius, and some had bronze rams, presenting a serious A small vessel was sent to the Massilians and Ahenobarbus seized the opportunity. Sending the Massilian navy out, they slipped at Taurois, just down the coast from Massilia. Brutus too had increased the size of his fleet, and manned them with legionaries. Although outnumbered almost 2:1 by the combined had the distinct advantage in quality when Buoyed by his previous victory, Brutus gave The Massilian ships were stationed on the left. Knowing that the Massilians would favour a would be best to engage the Massilians first, Nasidius' ships. He therefore determined to focus almost all As they had done previously, the Massilians seamanship to outmanoeuvre and separate Brutus' This was an effective tactic, and when they pepper it with javelins and arrows, inflicting However, once again, whenever they drifted grappling hooks, pulling their foes close Once boarded, despite the bravery and determination simply outclassed by Roman discipline and In a frantic attempt to win the engagement Brutus' own ship, distinguished by its standard. Two Massilians ships attempted to ram the a pincer. Just as they closed in though, Brutus' ship colliding into each other head on. Now disabled, they made easy prey for Brutus' both. It was at this point that Nasidius abandoned Seeing there was no chance of victory, the Brutus had won without losing a single ship the Massilians lost a total of 9 ships; 5 It is unknown why Nasidius did not commit Caesar blames it on cowardice, however, given following the battle, it is possible that decimated by Brutus' men, thought it better would be more in his favour. Whatever the reason, he had not lost a man, The remainder of the Massilian fleet limped from it again. Caesar was consistently complimentary of the being citizens wanting to fight for their Against the skill and heavy arms of Roman a chance. With the naval battle won, the Romans turned A way was needed to assault the walls without the siege engines being burnt during a sortie. As such, Trebonius began work on a huge tower. The tower was 9 metres each way with walls The Romans built the first layer of this tower, to the sides. They then used screws and levers to raise the gap between lid and wall and would then They continued this process until the tower for archers and ballistae as they did, allowing wall. With this completed, Trebonius' men next from the base of the tower, which provided In effect, this was almost like a huge, covered It could be pushed forward and backward and and clay to prevent it being burnt down. When it was completed, it was pushed forward of a tower in the Massilian wall. Under this protection, legionary engineers tower, removing bricks with crowbar and chisel. The Massilians attempted to throw rocks and defences proved sturdy and the men were protected. In due time, the undermining began to pay tilt. The Massilians quickly came out of the city. They acknowledged that Trebonius had now won tower collapsed, the Legions would flood the They requested a truce, asking if they could him personally. Trebonius, seeing little reason in risking pulled back from the walls to wait for Caesar. But the Massilians were bluffing. Once the Romans' guard was down, they sallied ramp and battering ram. Though Trebonius' and his men quickly caught back the sortie, missiles from the Massilian The Massilians were even able to set fire as the gallery, destroying months of work However, this was only a small success for The siege had been going on now for 4 and With their navy destroyed, they had no means The supplies they did have were running low, populace. Moreover, the Romans had once again started a gallery extending to the walls made of brick. To make matters worse, Caesar arrived with His arrival also made it clear to the Massilians that they would not be receiving any reinforcements Diseased, starved and now horrifically outnumbered, Just before they did, however, Ahenobarbus He was still not ready to give up the fight dash past Brutus' blockade during a storm. Brutus' ships pursued, catching 2, but the storm. He would live to fight another day. Caesar left the 18th and 19th legions to garrison 5th, 7th and 10th to rejoin his main army. In 7 months, Caesar had chased Pompey from 5 of Pompey's Legions and absorbed a further So far, the war was going very much in Caesar's But this was still just the start. Ahenobarbus had managed to escape to Greece Varro, Afranius and Petreius, despite the Pompey was amassing a vast army in Greece, in the East, as well as the important grain The war in the West might have been over for world was about to begin. While Caesar was on his way to confront Pompey's the Civil War in the Mediterranean and African Before Caesar even reached Spain, Valerius Curio had claimed Sicily with the 15th and Together, around the end of April - early Sicily, along with the 20th Legion from Italy, cavalry, and began preparing to invade North Alongside Sardinia and Sicily, North Africa, biggest suppliers of grain feeding the Roman Taking North Africa would, therefore, give ensuring he could supply his armies throughout to starve him out of Italy. Command of this invasion was assigned to Curio, command experience. He had been crucial to Caesar in the Senate, To compensate for his lack of experience, including Rebilus, a Legate who had served at Alesia. The Legions Curio commanded were largely raw, while Caesar was pushing south through Italy. However, Caesar knew that Pompey's best any Pompeian troops in Africa would be equally It was thought that, with four Legions, Curio successfully. However, Curio did not want to invade Africa in case his men would be needed to support Africa was under the control of the Pompeian Varus had previously been propraetor of the unprepared for war with only 1 Legion present He immediately took control and strengthened encamping them outside Utica. Furthermore, he requested the aid of the nearby Juba was an old ally of Pompey, who owed his had a personal hatred of Caesar and Curio He readily agreed to side with the Pompeians, It wasn't until August, after receiving Curio began his crossing into Africa. Curio did not think much of his opponents, of bringing his full force across, he only and 500 cavalry, along with a sizable navy. Landing at Anquillaria, between Utica and force first, and so began his march to Utica, Here, he left Rebilus in charge of the Legions Castra Cornelia, an old Roman fort on a small, the Punic Wars. This camp was just 5km from Utica, and from camp. The Pompeian camp was in a strong position, on one side, and the outdoor amphitheatre to the camp narrow and difficult. When observing the town Curio saw a large city on the roads from the local populace Looking to hamper Varus' supplies and take attack them. Varus was quick to react though and sent his Numidian infantry to defend them. The Numidian cavalry, which had raced ahead first. But the Numidians were lightly armed and best fighting. Curio's men were able to inflict significant cavalry to flee back to the town and camp, Traders and their goods were seized by Curio he planned to use as his main base for the Meanwhile, Curios' navy had moved into position possibly as many as 200 merchant ships with Curio sent a proclamation declaring that any supplies to the Castra Cornelia would be treated With no naval protection, the merchants saw Castra Cornelia, providing the Caesareans Curio's campaign was off to a good start. Leaving a small force in the Castra Cornelia troops at the Bagradas with news of his achievements, Bolstered by this success, the next day he to encamp just outside the town of Utica, Caesar. While this camp was being constructed, Curio Numidian force was approaching. Curio had failed to scout the area properly Quickly, he ordered his men to abandon the while he sent his cavalry to engage the Numidians The Numidians did not march in a tight formation As soon as Curio's cavalry made contact, swiftly by the infantry. The Roman cavalry harassed the Numidian infantry, the Numidian force successfully made it into Caesar describes the Numidians as having been was a tactical withdrawal. The Numidians likely had not been seeking combining with Varus' forces rather than Though Curio had, so far, been largely successful, 22 of their men defected to Varus. They told Varus that Curio's army did not able to win them over to his side. Their motivation for doing this is not known. Curio had performed well so far, aside from as Imperator, so it is unlikely that Curio's The more likely reason is that Curio's men They had not fought a pitched battle before, had trained and led Curio's men at Corfinium. It is likely, therefore, that the men were to fight former comrades, than dissatisfaction Nevertheless, the next day Varus marched his An officer in Varus' army, Sextus Varus, appealed to Curio's men. He reminded them that they had previously himself, and that they should not fight the to fight alongside. Though Curio's army showed little reaction, that, given time, this appeal would strike Though the message had been received in silence in camp, the men began to talk amongst themselves. Oaths held a strong religious connotation, The more the men talked, the more they began their allegiance from Pompey to Caesar. Rumour likely exaggerated the number of men were, and Curio was soon worried that his Curio gathered his officers and sought advice The officers suggested two options. Firstly, that they attack the Pompeian camp busy would be best, rather than allowing any back to the Cornelia Castra to try and calm Curio was not convinced of either option. He saw an all-out attack on the camp as foolhardy, Furthermore, he believed the number of men overplayed. As such, he gathered the soldiers and addressed He gave a rousing speech, pointing out that voiding any oaths the men had made to him, He espoused the achievements of Caesar in side, so why join the losing one? Finally he listed his own achievements in as imperator. The men were moved by the speech and acclaimed It's possible that not a lot of men felt Curio was continuing to show himself as a speech he had regained full control of the discipline or excessive time wasting. Determined to draw Varus into a pitched battle, day. Varus followed suit, the two armies facing The ditch was not particularly deep, only and would present a disadvantage to any trying Varus made the first move, sending his Numidian infantry to flank Curio's force. Curio countered by sending two cohorts of The Numidian cavalry charged the Roman legionaries, and routed. The light infantry was left exposed and, surrounded slaughtered. Rebilus urged Curio to capitalise on this a mass rout. Curio heeded the advice and led his men across other side, Varus' force, seeing that Curio outflank them, had begun to flee the battlefield. They did not retreat in good order, and Varus retreat. As his army tried to push through the narrow a bottle neck and many were slain by Curio's Indeed, more of Varus' men died here than However, when Varus' men had made the safety not having the equipment needed to siege the Caesar gives Curio's casualties as being it is likely that his casualties were minimal, wounded. This battle might seem unbelievable in how a few points to consider. Firstly, Varus misused his Numidian cavalry. The Numidians were light cavalry and skilled armour, were not equipped for melee fighting Secondly, Varus' whole army had only recently Likely, very few of his men had any military quick to rout. Compare for instance, the actions of Caesar's army and in risk of being surrounded, retreated square. That is the difference between veterans and Under the cover of darkness, Varus moved what leaving just a small detachment of men, trumpeters it was still garrisoned. Curio was quick to discover the ploy and began besiege the city. Initially, the citizens of Utica appealed the gruelling experience of a siege. However, a messenger arrived in Utica with on his way and nearby to support Varus. It is not known how large Juba's army was, was the royal army, it surely numbered in With these reinforcements on the way, Varus that he would be able to defeat Curio. Curio soon discovered the same information. Initially he did not believe the reports, and continued the siege. More reports came in, however, verifying the 36km miles away. Upon learning this, Curio abandoned his plans Cornelia instead. He began further fortifying the fort and sent and all the cavalry left in Sicily. This was a good plan; the Castra Cornelia to the sea, Curio could maintain a supply Juba was a cunning opponent though. He sent men from Utica under the guise of to redirect his force to suppress a rebellion, force commanded by his lieutenant Saburra. Curio, still riding the wave of his previous these reports and sought to crush the Numidians Abandoning his defensive position around 3am, them, leaving 5 cohorts in the Castra Cornelia. Having learnt his lesson previously, Curio scouting party, and they quickly discovered Curio's cavalry fell upon the Numidians suffered heavy casualties before retreating However, instead of staying to hold the area headed back to Curio's main force with a Curio had already marched 10km from the Castra He questioned the prisoners as to who their was, confirming in Curio's mind that he army. Determined, Curio pushed his men to march In the meantime, however, Saburra had sent response, Juba had sent ahead 2,000 Spanish and his best infantry to bolster Saburra's the main force. Saburra kept withdrawing his force, feigning Curio was being lured into a trap. Curio's army had now marched almost 28km from the early start. They now found themselves a large, flat open This was what Saburra had been waiting for. He lined up his infantry for battle but kept enough to be a threat but far away enough of the fighting to his cavalry. The previous engagements had already depleted to rest and water their horses, leaving Curio and the Numidians used this to their advantage. Their heavier Gallic and Spanish cavalry would lighter Numidian cavalry skirmished and harassed Curio tried to use his cavalry to chase away to pursue and Saburra's men would simply When the Numidians could draw a cohort into find itself utterly surrounded by horsemen Fighting in such a manner and on such open By this point, the whole of Curio's army of Juba's men were trickling in, providing against the exhausted Romans. Desperately, Curio ordered some of his men their way out of the encirclement to some The Numidians allowed them to break through them and cut them down to a man. The battle was a disaster. Curio's army had lost all hope, some men mothers, others simply abandoned their weapons Gnaeus Domitius, the prefect of horse, gathered and urged him to try and save himself and Curio replied that he would never be able He died fighting alongside his men. Both the 15th and 16th Legions were completely The Roman cavalry that had been watering their distance and raced back to the Cornelia Castra in charge, Marcius Rufus, of the disaster. He tried to organise an evacuation by sea had already taken over as rumour spread that Men pushed past one another to scramble onto that they sank. The captains of the ships grew equally as officers, including Rebilus and Rufus, made sail. The men that were left in the Castra Cornelia The African campaign had been an unmitigated hands. So far, Caesar himself had been largely successful His campaign in Spain had secured the west best Legions, and he had been recruiting in Legions. However, his subordinates had not been as Curio had lost 2 Legions in North Africa, that supplies of grain in Rome would still Around the same time, Gaius Antonius, the and a half in Illyria to defection. To make matters worse, the veteran 9th, dismayed and lack of promised pay, had mutinied. Consular elections were due in Rome and, with there was no one to oversee them, threatening His first priority was the 9th Legion, as other legions in similar position. Rushing to their camp, Caesar made an impassioned for his quick action he could not be blamed He then chastised the men, saying that he now repaid him by mutineering; the only suitable The legion begged Caesar to reconsider. Magnanimous as ever, Caesar only executed back into the fold. Caesar needed to maintain an air of legitimacy, could not be held. Lepidus, a praetor and close ally of Caesar, he could preside over the election. This was done and Caesar was appointed Consul, With consular power, Caesar no longer needed just 11 days. With these issues now handled, Caesar gathered Pompey. The latter was gathering a huge force from In total, Pompey had around 60,000 men; 9 and slingers, 7,000 cavalry, plus some auxiliaries. There were a further 2 Legions en route from Pompey had spent time drilling and equipping However, only 4 of his Legions were veterans. Cicero, who was with Pompey, described the Mixed cultures and languages made organisation Trusting in his numbers though, Pompey marched a defensive line down the coast. Caesar, in Brundisium, had gathered his 10 years of campaigning, and 2 newly recruited However, he only had enough ships to move being guarded by Pompey's vast navy under With the path through Illyria being too mountainous a way of crossing the sea. However, he did have one key advantage. The Roman calendar drifted over time and needed Caesar had not performed this duty due to knew the true date - it was late Autumn. Bibulus was operating under the impression his ships in port, confident that Caesar would Ordering his men to leave slaves and baggage legions. By the time Bibulus found out, Caesar and Frustrated, Bibulus began a blockade, capturing returned to Brundisium, and preventing the army. Soon after his landing Caesar was able to He then sent Vibullius Rufus, a man who Caesar once at Ilerda, to treat with Pompey. With his force divided, Caesar was possibly offering the same terms as before. Nonetheless, Caesar continued marching his center for the Pompeians. Caesar's sending Vibullius was a mistake, of Caesar's location, army composition, He could not allow Dyrrhachium to fall into forced march. Caesar still had 70 miles and 3 rivers to could still beat him there. The march took its toll on his more inexperienced due to this push and their fear of Caesar, Dyrrhachium first. Labienus quickly restored morale by publicly and the army encamped outside Dyrrhachium, to a defensible position on the southern bank Pompey knew that Caesar had legitimacy as rightful leader of Rome, so he had to defeat He moved his army south, encamping on the Once again though, Pompey proved indecisive. Caesar had just around 30,000 men, compared But Pompey did not trust his less experienced in a strong defensive position. A standoff continued for weeks. Caesar used this time to his advantage. Bibulus' navy had to constantly come ashore Caesar dispatched small raiding parties to forcing Bibulus to go further and further Bibulus knew he could not abandon his position, resorting to drinking the dew collected on In desperation, he tried to parley with Caesar, to Pompey if Caesar would stop. Caesar countered by saying that he would want wanted to resupply unmolested, he would have All these talks had done was reveal to Caesar Soon after, old and now in increasingly poor Antony had tried numerous times to break the The Pompeians had kept him under significant harbour to try and trap Antony even further. However, Antony was a talented lieutenant, men on alert for any opportunity. It came in January 48BC. Antony only had enough ships to transport newly recruited. He made a dash for Caesar with these ships, being forced to land at Nymphaeum. Both Pompey and Caesar had to rush to Antony's to unite his forces. Pompey had a head start and a shorter route, in order to be able to ford the river, and He ordered his men not to light any fires he moved to meet Caesar. However, some locals sympathetic to the Caesarean sending a messenger to inform Caesar of his When Pompey found Antony encamped and Caesar being attacked on two sides and withdrew to With his full army now joined, Caesar started Hearing that Scipio was now in Macedonia with under Gnaeus Domitius Calvinus to cut him The Thessalians and Aetolians had sent envoys garrisons, and so Caesar sent the rookie 27th and G. Calvisius Sabinus with 5 cohorts to Scipio did march his force towards Thessaly, Legions were able to apply enough pressure Meanwhile, one of Pompey's son, Gnaeus, whole navy in the area, leaving Caesar stranded With his navy destroyed, Caesar knew he had He first attempted to do this at Asparagium, But Pompey, on the high ground, refused to In order to force Pompey's hand, Caesar By threatening this crucial supply centre, However, he did not want to reveal his strategy route to hide his intentions. He struck camp early in the morning in April. The plan worked: initially Pompey thought and it was only after his scouts reported what Caesar was planning. He then gave chase. Caesar marched through the night, only giving Dyrrhachium first, setting up his camp on Pompey arrived soon after and encamped his position. Pompey's army outnumbered Caesar's considerably. Having sent part of his force to stall Scipio 35,000-40,000 men and 3,000 cavalry. Pompey, on the other hand, had around 53,000 Though Caesar's men were more experienced, a better supply line. Using his navy, he could ship supplies from be forced to live off the land and requisition difficult as Pompey's forces had already Noting the particularly hilly topography of of his most favoured tactics and fortify the his enemy and cutting off their supplies. This would be a difficult task considering simplified the task. When Pompey realised what Caesar was doing, He ordered his men to fortify as many hills own fortifications further and further, stretching Frequent skirmishes broke out between the and slow their build. On one occasion, the 9th legion, attempting intense masses of missile fire from the Pompeians Caesar, who was with the 9th at the time, retreat down the slope, commanding legionary behind to hinder the enemy from pursuing the He then placed slingers in commanding positions The 9th was pursued by the Pompeian missiles into the trenches to cross them. Caesar, fearing a rout, ordered Antony, commander In a brilliant display of discipline, the and charged back up the slope. The Pompeians, only being lightly armed, retreated Soon after, Caesar's defences were complete; Due to his men's greater experience and against the sea. This was a great achievement. A smaller, less supplied force had never done Though low on grain, Caesar did manage to of all the sources of fresh water in the area. Pompey was now forced to dig wells and rely Furthermore, Caesar could now send his men fear of harassment. Pompey, however, was a skilled general and pressure, sending missile units to harass of their campfires. He also attempted to bring his cavalry into had done little so far. Boarding them onto ships, he sent them up be free from the confines of the fortifications on Pompey's supplies, as well as attack Around this same time, in early July, Caesar Dyrrhachium who were willing to be bribed Looking to capitalise, Caesar went to the Cornelius Sulla in charge. However, when he reached the outskirts of cavalry who attempted to surround Caesar, with his men and survive the ambush. While Caesar was away from the main line, offensives on the fortifications. He ordered 4 Legions to concentrate on a point each to attack two other points in the line. The point the 4 Legions were attacking was defended by 500 men of the 6th Legion. The cohort was hard pressed, thousands of but the men held on doggedly, confident that They were correct; quickly as he could, Sulla upon seeing this new force, the Pompeians' According to Caesar, every man of this unit The other two attacks had also been repelled, German auxiliaries, who sallied out taking In total, Caesar claims that the Pompeians though his own losses were surely much higher. It is likely that the citizens of Dyrrhachium into a trap. Pompey was proving a worthy and cunning enemy, Bolstered by the confidence of their victories, to offer battle to Pompey, as a sign of strength. Pompey also drew his army up for battle so He would need to orchestrate a situation where to contend with Caesar's veterans. Meanwhile, Longinus and Sabinus had been successful between Epirus and Corinth. They now planned to push past the Isthmus their path blocked by a Pompeian force. Nonetheless, their success was crucial in these new Greek territories. With more successes under his belt, Caesar Scipio, hoping to convince the latter to talk But even though Scipio at first listened with it. At Dyrrhachium, Caesar fortified the two approaches in the area off from the supplies there. With the cavalry now unable to sustain themselves, But Pompey's food was still running low breakout. To try and achieve this, Pompey's men occupied were between the two armies' fortifications, camp that encompassed the first. He also added a long wall from the camp to This would act as a forward base from where Pompey suddenly had a stroke of luck when the Gallic Wars deserted. They had detailed intel about Caesar's defences now passed all this information to Pompey. At the southern end of Caesar's defences, 9th legion was stationed under Marcellinus. After having been forced to withdraw from a second camp and fortifications that stretched Behind this, they had constructed a second Pompey landing troops behind and attacking To complete the defences, an extra line of 2 walls, linking them together and blocking But these defences were incomplete. Pompey formulated his plan. He would attack the inner wall with his legions, to the south to attack the outer wall, while 2 walls. In doing so, he would attack the 9th from This took a lot of careful planning and timing, old fort and behind his own lines to coordinate. After a couple days of preparation, he was He moved 60 cohorts of legionaries, around while the light infantry was moved by boat As they began their attack, more men were entrenchments. There were only 2 cohorts of the 9th present These 1,000 men now found themselves under numbers. Desperately they tried to form a line and But the numbers were too much and the men As they did, they ran into the reinforcing in the narrow gap between the walls. The Pompeians closed in on Marcellinus' of cohorts. Luckily, Antony, who was close at hand, managed stopping the Pompeian advance. He was soon joined by Caesar, alerted by smoke Both forces now had most of their men committed While Pompey's main force had been pushing begun construction of a fort outside of Caesar's had been broken. Caesar ordered his men to begin construction walls. While this was being done, Caesar's scouts the 9th Legion's old fort. If Pompey took this fort, he would be able south and his old fortifications. Caesar was determined to stop this from happening. Gathering around 17,000 men and leaving 1000 route, concealing his force as long as possible, His left wing, where Caesar himself was, pushed back into the inner camp. Caesar's right wing however, had stumbled to the river. Thinking these were part of the fort, they When they reached the river and realised their in the defences, breaking through followed time. Pompey had seen what was happening and sent the Legion in the fort. The cavalry rode ahead of the legions and flank, routing them almost instantly. The infantry around them, seeing their comrades ran. The narrow passages they had made through men took to jumping from the ramparts into Many were trampled to death. Inside the fort itself, Pompey's legion Caesar's left, afraid that they were about the fort, also began to break, retreating Caesar tried to stop the rout, grabbing onto to stand their ground. One, overcome by panic, even tried to stab Caesar's entire force that had been committed But Pompey, fearing Caesar had laid a trap, the defences stopped his cavalry pursuing If he had, he may well have been able to to In total, Caesar gives his dead as being 32 1000 legionaries and 200 hundred horsemen. He had also lost many men as prisoners, perhaps On the orders of Labienus, all of these men Pompey was hailed as imperator, but as a sign that went with the title, due to his victory Caesar, after having committed almost 3 months from Dyrrhachium, defeated. The Pompeians took this as a full retreat, war was already won. However, Pompey had failed to strike a killing He had done well to break out of Caesar's to use his overwhelming numbers. Caesar was a dangerous enemy who could not Nonetheless, Caesar was able to carry out light harassment from Pompey's forces, pulling As he did so, he comforted his men, saying so too would this defeat at Dyrrhachium would Still, Caesar was in a precarious position. The army under his command was by now heavily around Greece; two under Domitius Calvinus under Longinus and Sabinus. Caesar's defeat also meant that his supporters He needed a victory soon, and it would need Caesar's priority was to get his army back to Apollonia where he left his wounded, and cities under his control. Longinus' legion would be safe in Southern of Gallic campaigns, who had been stalling were now exposed. All of Caesar's plans now revolved around Pompey marched on Italy, Caesar would meet to attack Pompey from the rear; if Pompey and fight a battle with the merged army; if Greece, Caesar would march to Domitius and lose an ally. Before any of these plans could be put into He began his march at full pace from Apollonia. Pompey, however, had also come to a similar his legions would surely be lost. Both Caesar and Pompey were once again in their ally before the other. Leaving Cato in control of Dyrrhachium, Pompey As he did, he took measures to slow Caesar, and as a result, Caesar found little support found it impossible to reach Domitius. When both armies were just 4 hours from the a stroke of luck. Some of the Gauls who had defected to Pompey racing to Domitius and warning him of Pompey's Armed with this knowledge, Domitius was able Caesar's whole army in the region, aside Nonetheless, Pompey still held the upper hand; so his intention was now to avoid another Despite his numbers, he was still aware of were compared to many of his own, and how In Plutarch's words: "Caesar and that over 3000 nations, gained numberless battles prisoners and killed as many in the field". Pompey was confident that, in time, Caesar would break down. This was known as the Fabian strategy and against Hannibal in the Second Punic War. Many high-ranking members of Pompey's army, Ahenobarbus, Scipio, Afranius, and Cicero variously of cowardice and even of having Pompey would have to act soon or risk his Caesar, on the other hand, had wasted no time. He marched quickly to Gomphi, an important of Thessaly, Androsthenes. Andrsothenes had previously promised his and Dyrrhachium had defected to Pompey, closing Caesar did not have the supplies or time to storm the town. The attack started at 3 in the afternoon and likely including Androsthenes, committing Despite their defeat at Dyrrhachium, Caesar's with. After resupplying, Caesar marched to Metropolis, Gomphi. Many other towns soon followed suit, and Caesar his army for the time being. Pompey knew that if he could keep Caesar pinned out of supplies and be starved out. But the pressure from his officers was continually Finally, Pompey relented to their demands battle, setting up his camp on the high ground. Morale amongst Pompey's men was high and had a huge numerical advantage and had already Already, talks were being had about who would who would get the property of Caesar and his of pontifex maximus after his defeat. According to Caesar, "they were not concerned upper hand, but with the way in which they Their confidence was not unfounded: Pompey's cavalry. Caesar's army, on the hand, now numbered according to his own account. It is likely that Caesar underplayed his numbers, and 2,000 cavalry, as Caesar failed to add Caesar was equally confident though. His army was not as numerous, but it was more Only a handful of Pompey's Legions were specifically for the war and only having seen Furthermore, while the bulk of Pompey's by auxiliaries and allies from the East making These men, though all skilled warriors, would style, and the multitude of languages spoken difficult. The men Caesar had under his command were fought with him since his Gallic campaigns, Every day, Caesar would march his army out offering battle. Pompey each time refused to commit, pulling the high ground; it is clear that he was still did not want to give up his advantageous position, While these manoeuvres were going on, Caesar them each day to increase his cavalry to 2,000; enough to at least stall them. It had been almost a month now since the Battle that if Pompey would not give battle, his the march, moving camp every day, forcing less disciplined force. On the 9th August 48 BC, Caesar was about prepared to decamp, when Pompey's army suddenly to the plains to give battle. It is not entirely clear why Pompey chose The most likely answer is that he was pressured ready to move, were worried Caesar would slip and give battle. Whatever the reason, Caesar took it as a blessing now even terrain. Pompey knew that his key advantages were his army to best maximize their effectiveness. His infantry was formed into the classic Roman usual 10 men depth order to better hold a On his left wing, he stationed two Legions These were two of Pompey's most experienced having been raised by Caesar for the Gallic the Civil War. In his centre, he stationed Scipio and his by two legions combined into one with a river Within this Twin Legion were veterans from the Battle of Ilerda. They were commanded by Ahenobarbus, one of All these Legions were Pompey's best men; Pompey's less experienced Legions, allies On Pompey's extreme left were his 7,000 by Pompey's skirmishers and archers. A further 2,000 infantry were held in reserve and Pompey's son, Gnaeus. Pompey positioned himself on the left. His plan was to use the tactic of his hero, the river guarding his right flank, Pompey's cavalry force would flank left, destroying from behind, becoming the hammer to the anvil Caesar also drew his army up in the triplex The 10th Legion, Caesar's personal favourite on his right opposite Pompey. These men were commanded by Sulla, who had this was also where Caesar positioned himself. On the left, Caesar positioned two of his 9th, with the river to their left. These two Legions had suffered so many casualties to work as one Legion under the command of The centre would be held by the 11th and 12th Caesar's remaining Legions filled the second not to engage until Caesar gave the signal. In order to match Pompey's line, Caesar Caesar's cavalry was stationed opposite They were hopelessly outnumbered, and Caesar to stall Pompey's horse for long. As such, he also pulled 3,000 men from various them into a 4th line. Caesar was the one to begin the engagement, Caesar's men expected Pompey's infantry custom, but they instead stood fast holding In a brilliant display of discipline, Caesar's After a brief pause to regain their stamina, a charge once again when nearer to Pompey's Javelins were hurled from both sides, and shields, held the line. An intense melee ensued with brutal close-quarters Pompey now put his plan into action. Labienus led the Pompeian cavalry to Caesar's archers, smashing into the Caesarian cavalry. Caesar's men could not hold off the onslaught retreating entirely. They had, however, performed their role. Whilst Pompey's cavalry had been fighting for his 4th line of spear-armed infantry to The Pompeian cavalry had been preparing to with Caesar's cavalry acting as a screen, into position and they now found themselves Pompey's cavalry, though numerous, were with little experience of warfare; fighting they were cut out for. They were routed quickly, being forced to regroup, but the damage had already been done. Caesar's fourth line pushed on into Pompey's As they pushed on, it was now Pompey who was His left flank legions, both who had previously found themselves attacked on multiple fronts the front, and the 4th line from the left It was at this point that Caesar committed man he had into the battle. Under this huge pressure, Pompey's line 3rd. This was also where Pompey had stationed himself choice but to flee the battlefield and retreat The rest of Pompey's line broke in quick the flank while his fresh 3rd line pushed Some attempted to follow their general and the battlefield. Caesar, knowing his victory needed to be complete, few thousand reserves and men who had retreated. Those that had retreated from the battlefield to surrender. Caesar had won. By the time Caesar stormed the camp, however, Many other high ranking Pompeians, such as son Gnaeus, had also managed to escape. Nonetheless, not all had been so lucky. Ahenobarbus "brave but ill-starred" had Antony himself. Many others had been captured in Pompey's Among these was a young man, Marcus Junius The son of Caesar's mistress, Brutus was his men orders not to kill Brutus. When Brutus surrendered, Caesar was overjoyed, Caesar showed his customary leniency to Pompey's to him. In total, Caesar claims to only have lost giving the Pompeian losses as 15,000 dead These numbers seem suspiciously exaggerated of Caesar's men dead, and 6,000 of Pompey's, Whichever is closer to the truth, the fact Aside from having broken Pompey's largest many fleeing to North Africa, and absorbed army, almost doubling its size. Pompey himself sailed first to the Greek islands and his youngest son, Sextus. His intent was to get his family far away East to rebuild an army to resist Caesar. By the time he reached Cyprus, he had taken along with 2,000 men. His defeat, however, had cost him much public Pompey had initially planned to head to the him and he was forced to look elsewhere. He decided on Egypt. The boy-pharaoh, Ptolemy XIII owed his throne father, and guaranteeing his will that made Pompey had also lent a number of officers pharaoh's army. Confident he would find support there, Pompey He was met off the coast by a small rowing Aboard were a man called Savius, the head of Pompey's, Lucius Septimius. Pompey's wife was worried about this lack but Pompey was reassured by the presence of Stepping off his ship, he quoted a line of tyrant's door becomes his slave, even if As the small boat rowed to shore, Pompey tried Septimius he was an old comrade; he received Septimius then struck, stabbing the old general, Septimius then beheaded his corpse, throwing Ptolemy, upon the counsel of his advisors, approval from Caesar. Pompey the Great, 3 times consul, conqueror most prolific generals was dead. It is worth noting how revered Pompey was. Plutarch despaired that he and Caesar had the fruits of their labours in peace and tranquillity, their own. If they must have victories and triumphs...what Indian treasures could have resisted 70,000 Though arguably past his prime at Pharsalus, was solid and the best that could be done. The reason for his defeat was not poor generalship, his infantry, and the lack of experience of Pompey and Caesar were both incredibly talented two decided on similar strategies. When Caesar reached Egypt having pursued Pompey, Disgusted, he turned away. He was next presented the seal of Pompey, Though enemies in later life, it is worth political allies for around 8 years, had effectively by marriage. Caesar was well aware that, despite being time, worthy of his respect. Caesar's victory marked a turning point It was now the Optimates who would find themselves Nevertheless, the war was far from over. Pompey's staunchest supporters, Cato, Scipio, all fled to North Africa to continue the resistance. With them also was Labienus, now undoubtedly The war against Pompey was done, but the Civil enemies daring to challenge Caesar. In our next video we will talk about Caesar's place after the death of Pompey, so make sure in order to be notified. These long episodes are very difficult to liking and sharing - it helps immensely. Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and