By now, most of you have probably heard about and are mostly used for lightweight But Google just released out of Flex, which is a version of ChromeOS Now, this is mostly geared towards like very old where you don't really use them anymore, but maybe you want to give them new life. a Chromebook. So that's what we can was just sitting in a closet, so I see what the installation process is like, I've actually never used ChromeOS so this'll be interesting for everyone. So 8GB or larger flash drive, and then you'll And then that will be used to install onto the run a Chrome extension/app that is called pops up a thing and will walk you through the thumb drive. So you run this extension and Now this is because there's actually a list that Google has said, &quot;yeah ChromeOS flex but if it's not one of those, that's look for the entry called &quot;Google ChromeOS just select ChromeOS Flex. And then Then it's gonna ask you which USB device check that this is correct, because it's I would recommend using probably I was using a USB 2.0 one first and it was But then I tried on a Samsung T5 SSD, it's it in like a minute. So it's definitely gonna at the advanced settings and choose whether you whether you want to get the main version or maybe And then it'll just go through the process of be good. And also keep in mind, there's no ISO or I also tried installing this on a virtual machine, have been able to get it to work on certain So after it's all finished, we now have the into the computer when you boot up. And hopefully have to look up on your computer how to choose and it gives you the option to either If you choose to try it first, it will run off there's not gonna be as many apps on it, it's for it. But it could be used in a pinch to once you select that, it will tell you that Although, one thing that is kind of weird is it doesn't let you choose which and won't even tell you which one. So I'm but after you do choose to install there's not really any options for you to it's gonna finish, it's gonna say installation and then to unplug the thing after it and should be running ChromeOS at that point. Which is my computer actually has two drives in bigger 1TB SSD for like extra storage. And turns drive, which is not the main one that the BIOS select to use the SSD. So what I had to open up the computer, take out the and then when I went through again, installed worked and I was in actual ChromOS All right now before I get into booting I wanna give a big thanks to today's sponsor, Guardio is a browser extension from all sorts of threats while browsing sites using in-house custom developed methods all before those threats even have a chance to extensions and alerts you if there are any And if any sites trick you into enabling trace the actual source of those notifications Plus there are other features, such as newly info on the dark web, with real time alerts even feature is search hijack correction in case any without your permission. Guardio has also added even if you accidentally clicked to download them, like infected game mods, program many times malicious files have relevant file sites used in scams that try to get you to install You can scan your browser for threats and installing the extension. You'll get a seven realtime threat removal and 50% off your first and secure browsing experience, again, visit and also check out their affordable premium plan, And with all that being said, let's continue. All setup. Again, not many options here. It'll tell network that you want to connect to. And and it's going ask you what type of user you like a regular user account or a child, which is you want to add, stuff like that. So if you account. So there's no local accounts on here in with a Google account. Then it's gonna settings. So I guess this is if you have multiple Then the only two other options are so whether you want Google assistant requests you give it. And also another one, version of the assistant. And after and now I can switch to the screen recorder, which poke around and show you what's in here. At the task bar, it's gonna show you some pinned And then at the bottom left, there's So you click that, the start menu I guess you and some recently used apps, I guess, or commonly real quick, we can see that it looks pretty much but we'll come back to this in a minute. Looking right you can see there's a pop-up for some Light which is going to reduce the blue light, nicer at night. And also the other usual stuff your notifications, do not disturb, the And there also is that screen capture tool, which or a whole screen or screen recordings If we look in the file browser, you can see It just shows you the top level directory, and the only thing in there is a downloads folders. Also on the left though, you will This isn't really stored on the laptop click to run something, it kind of catches but it's not like everything on So it's super basic compared to Windows or of the program files installed, or any settings the user, it's just files you create or folders some files, it works pretty much like you'd menu's gonna look familiar, you got the option You got copy and paste. You can also zip the And then also you can Get Info, sort If you do plug in an external USB drive, And if you want to copy files, one there's no progress bar. It'll it just says &quot;copying this file&quot; and about was like a progress bar like you would see in you might notice. Pre-installed on the So Messages, if you have an Android phone, to your computer. There's the Chrome web browser which interestingly doesn't actually just it's a YouTube app in itself. There's also Google Google Meet, and some other stuff like that. If we see all the apps installed. So the first page And the second page, there are more tools though. For example there is Chrome canvas, which is basic drawing, like my beautiful picture here. a text editor like Notepad. Interestingly though, to the Linux Terminal app, it'll ask you if you So to do that, you select the option to and then it's going to download and you'll have a bash shell. Though, I don't interesting here, but you can see that it will give a new location in the So this is where Linux runs out of, and and that's where all that stuff would more apps if you go to the Chrome web store. And then you can go to the apps section However, there seemed to be a lot of limitations. Google Play app to install some apps from it just said that it was no longer available. Now it will let you do that from my understanding, but it just won't work on ChromeOS I also tried to install Spotify and it wouldn't other ones that I tried were broken too. although I noticed that this version it wasn't able to play the WebM files, so this one didn't really work either, not exactly there is a built in media player but I was just using VLC as an if you want to actually install a bunch just gonna be useful for like some light If we look at these system settings, there's So we can look even for example, at mouse acceleration, which I'm not a fan of. and change some of the login stuff. You obviously. Again, it looks really similar to the also see there's a section if you chose to install there's some personalization settings, there's a couple pre-installed themes stuff that's slightly more advanced, like So overall it's definitely nice that you Obviously, it's not meant to be like a heavy or anything like that. But I think it might be do you remember those? The super small Well, maybe all you need it for Docs or something. Though like I said, if you probably have to go and actually buy really cheap ones out there. So anyway, are you gonna maybe use this on an old laptop you something to have, maybe to be able to use down the comments. Thanks again to Guardio for Guard.io/ThioJoe to install the extension That link is also in the description. the next one I'd recommend is where I extensions you might wanna install. So kind of I'll have it pop up. So thanks so much for