Hi! Are you interested in learning more This is a theory developed by Howard Gardner, of how it came about, and I'm specific traits and characteristics of I'm Janice, you're watching Sharp Cookie. and problem-solving. I post new videos the bell to be notified. Ok so first about, when it came about, and how it was Gardner was doing his research, it was with a person's intelligence, and they people generally believed and accepted of intelligence and that's what you had and Gardner just didn't believe Based on his research, he found that like something you were born with and And 2.) He also believed that these certain types of intelligence, which is people have other types besides just spatial reasoning on these tests. There's other human beings have, and it's a great with it because are just intelligent in everything and strengths and specific weaknesses. being really bad at climbing trees, We're good at some things and not good at interested in this theory. huge popularity in the 80's. In 1983 he which you can obviously find online and read and that really took this theory to a Now Gardner believes that you can decide and you can work on that, I see this all the time. Kids really can improve If you do 50 math problems a day, that logical and reasoning part, will improve. seeing with Gardner's theory. So a common Can I just take a test and know which certain ones and lower in others? but Gardner himself has not come out online is not endorsed nor created by The first type of intelligence that I want to So this type of intelligence is our So clouds, rock formations, other animals Our understanding and skill level with all And people who have high zoologists, geologists, biologists. could be the ones that want to in plants. So for example, gardeners, all types of people who have high And as far as hobbies go, so that makes a lot of sense. All of these activities that take them is called Musical intelligence, and on very high ability to discern tone, pitch, So as kids they might be the type tapping their feet to a rhythm. other people can't hear, so their very, very good. would be professional musicians, the music field. The next type is called and this is the type that is typically that if you have a high score on an IQ don't are not, but according to Gardner's particular area, which is great but you Naturalist intelligence or Musical tested in schools, it's not on standardized tests, Mathematical Logical intelligence You're good at numbers, you're coming up with hypotheses. Your mind is very this obviously mathematicians, very logical mind like one plus two is three. will score very high typically on IQ tests They're also the type that probably easy because our school system is geared The next type is called one I was really excited to read about This is the type of intelligence where those existential questions like Why does this planet exist?&quot; and you can understand why that is there, questions and spirituality. So a lot of have very high Existential intelligence. and this is the skill for communicating So people that score very high in this area are usually counselors, psychologists, how someone else is thinking or feeling. maybe even in body language can't pick up on. People with this good politicians, salespeople, and actors. and as it sounds, this is the ability So some people who have a obviously athletes and professional dancers. their body is in space. They have the easily and also manipulate other objects, their hands, so they're craftspeople, guy down the street who likes to build type that have high The next type is Linguistic Verbal intelligence, and along with the logical intelligence and mathematical that I intelligence that our school system And this is the type of intelligence written language and how it's spoken, very high in this intelligence are very vocabulary, and they're often really professional journalists, and novelists. tend to have a high level of skill Now I already mentioned interpersonal with others, but there's another type, and this is our attunement with ourselves. with their own emotional states, So these are people who perhaps They enjoy journaling every day, being state at this moment? How am I feeling?&quot; as they react to certain situations. want to improve in this type, you can! I've been meditating for many years, and when a certain event happens, what can decide how I want to react or not based on a particular thought. Now people and when I say score I don't mean a high level in this type teachers and leaders. People who really would be scoring very, very high on this, you know what I'm talking about. So this is all about, and this leads us right Visual Spatial intelligence, and I found this type of intelligence very strongly, in this area, you're gonna do really, manipulate objects and things in your would a left-hand glove looked like if I visual spatial intelligence would find very easily imagine a glove being turned And people who would score low are going to They're also really good at those they'll show a picture of an object and rotated that object 90 degrees. So as you in this area, so do engineers, artists, and manipulate things in space. They also my video on the visual learning style, If you found this video helpful, Let me know that you appreciated it and know to make more content like this. It's really fun. We already have over a sort of puzzle or article related to like problem-solving and if you like puzzles, It's called Sharp Cookie Community. You can up below in the description. I also offer interested in any of that, I also have college students that I tutor You can email me at If you enjoyed this, make sure you watch the I think you would like love those videos. every week on learning and problem-solving. I'm Janice, this is Sharp Cookie, bye!