I figured it out, you guys. I figured out Bambu Lab's Secret this video I'm going to share what for the next decade of 3D printing. Let's dive in. Without question, the biggest of the last five years, was the scene with their X1 and X1 Carbon. This printer took the world by storm Prusa accolades genuinely blown away. The printer was a quantum leap forward came from an upstart, a new company that ago, but a company that was actually end-product that genuinely delivered on Now, I've spoken to a lot of people in especially when the even lower priced them said the same thing: &quot;I just this printer with these features for And that's when it hit me. I realized exactly what Bambu Lab is worked time and time again by brilliant In fact, I think that Bambu Lab Tesla, Bugatti, and McLaren. So here is the playbook. Step one, create a top level product innovative technology for only the sell it at cost, or even at a lost. Remember the original Tesla Roadster, sports car with impressive speeds. As Elon himself admitted this car was get Tesla's name out there, to ramp and to raise money for the next car. Or how about the Bugatti Veyron? You know the car that broke the world Well, like the X1 carbon, it made lots company resprung from the ashes and was players like Ferrari and Lamborghini. What most people didn't realize though of Bugatti, actually lost 6.25 million despite its 1.2 million price tag. That amounted to a 2.3 billion loss, all in the name of scaling, McLaren makers of the legendary F1 decade, producing just 108 cars in total. That's right, friends, I'm just I suspect that Bambu Lab is, on the X1 series pre-orders. Now, I'm fairly confident that they have that they can actually afford to lose Fortunately, the story doesn't end It's just the first Step 2. Bask in the glory, the insane buzz of respected industry insiders its category shifting performance. Let people wonder how you can Now, whether it was the Bugatti the McLaren F1, or the Bambu Lab X1 We've seen the Jeremy Clarksons of the Veyron is with high budget spectacles on We've also seen how every single space who has one of the X1 it as their daily driver printer. Basically the X1 was all that anyone that we trust in 3D printing has Meanwhile, the company is losing money initial ones, but they are gaining reputation than money could ever buy. Now, let's turn that Step 3. Reinvest all of the money you've brought Leveraging your reputation, you can ultra high end like the Bugatti Chiron, initial product, which will be less facilities, knowledge, and even many If you go in this direction, you will down cost while using the benefits of to charge more than a new entrant like could possibly charge in the market. Plus, you can strip out some of the the average consumer just won't need. In other words, bring down your cost on your brand recognition to sell a Obviously at this point, you're And by the way, while Bugatti chose directions, selling insane one-off you don't necessarily have to In the case of McLaren, they started of cars like the P1s, Sennas, and billionaires and &quot;normal&quot; supercars people who are just low-key, rich AF. Step 4. Rinse and repeat steps 3 and 4 until you manufacturers at their own game. Whether that is the higher end or a higher quality product at the same could ever afford to sell it for. Leverage the technological lead that of your next generation products in so that nobody can catch up to you. In the higher end case or path, has done with the Chiron. Whereas in the past, the only game in edition Ferrari that came out every 10 Today, Bugatti dominates a huge Now, if you go the mass market case, to an even larger extent, Tesla have a nice car, you probably bought a Who had heard of Tesla, or Today, however, the little upstart electric cars in America, which is beating out all of these companies and more. Similarly, McLaren announced back in sales, increasing by almost 50% per year. And honestly, are you surprised? These companies, companies like their products are just cheaper. They're winning because they have full self-driving mode, advanced safety systems, or other bells and LiDAR and AI recognition, and they're their more established competitors. Tesla, for example, has millions and to improve their autopilot systems, in producing efficient electric drive or BMW can even come close to. Now, this makes Tesla's products not only an overall better deal for the consumer. When faced with two choices, one that of brand that your mom or dad dreamt and costs slightly more, or the new at a better price and less history. Well, which one are you gonna choose? How much is brand history and Especially when the upstart company's nothing but slamdunks and everyone And that, my friends brings us to step 5. Dominate the market and expand from there. With your superior products and your even lower prices as your established be lining up to buy your products. So you'd better be investing a lot you're making back into building new Now, keep your foot on the gas if you your products to anyone who wants them. And let's face it, thanks that's pretty much everyone. At this point, your competitors are That little issue you had about being an nobody's talking about that anymore. You're the man now, dawg. Oh, and all that money you your premium product at a loss, you've more than made up for it. In fact, you're not only profitable your economies of scale now mean that Now it's time to take all of painstakingly built for yourself Look at your competitor's plate over that you can reach out and snatch away. Maybe you go after the B2B market or what about new competitors who serve that you haven't even begun to exploit? At this point, you can stop at So where are we now? Well, right now with Bambu step 4 cycle 1: to review. Yes, Bambu has probably been losing they've gained plenty in return. Reputation, brand awareness, usage data, P1P - their lower cost, but still upper obliterating the other competitors in Now, this will put their product in did, and further quiet any concerns longevity, reliability, and so on. What comes next? Most likely, we will see Bambu Lab entry-level printer in the next couple they rinse and repeat steps 3 and 4. Now, this printer won't have the same but it will leverage the learning, still beat out the other competitors even if they scramble the ketchup. Bambu may do a couple for example, dropping their next until they've adequately conquered Now, depending on when that happens, we printer at some point, for example, Though for now, I suspect that the X1 is Suffice it to say, if I were a company mass producing products, but has moving that innovation needle, I'd happens when Bambu Lab reaches Step 5. And if I worked at Prusa, on the working on revamping whatever is MK4, or I'd be polishing up my CV. One way or another, this guarantees only one thing. We as 3D printing enthusiasts and better printers, much more affordably, as this competition heats up. Thanks for watching. I hope you've enjoyed this video, and a like and a subscribe, and maybe I'd love to move out into a better videos for all of you. Thanks, and happy 3D Printing.