Hi, everyone. I'm both an actress and a traditional Today, I'll show you how I put on Let's begin. I'll start with cleansing. I use this solid soap by Muse as I've been told that solid soap I'll wash my face now. Okay, I'm done with cleansing. Usually, But... I'm not doing that. I'll put on the &quot;Habutae&quot; cloth. It looks like this. I'd cover my tied-up hair with this Let me show you how to wear this. Wearing this hair net first. Okay. Here we go. Pull these drawstrings behind like this That's all for the &quot;Habutae&quot; cloth. Next, I'll work on my face. In &quot;Nihon Buyo&quot; dance, putting on makeup is also I'm going to &quot;erase&quot; my brows. &quot;Mayutsubushi&quot; paste. It kind of looks like clay. Yes. The shape reminds me I'll melt it. [Eyebrow Erasing] Apply it and use your finger to If you put on too much, So when you think it's too much, you can use your nails Try it. The hair at the start of our brows That'd mean it'd pop out. So I'm going to apply more in that area. For those who find it difficult use the tip of a brush. It actually makes it easier Good. All right. Moving on to makeup base. This is the base. It's what I use. I'd fully cover my neck, back, and my whole face with it. Remember I skipped moisturizing? There's no need to Pick up a small chunk and put it on your palm like this. I'll use the warmth of my hands Try to use your palms Use this part and here to spread it. I'll start with my neck. For today, I'm not going to cover this area. For an actual performance, Done. Next up. &quot;Shironuri&quot; makeup. This is the white powder. Yes. Next... I'll dip this brush in water and pick some up. Like this. Let's do this. [White Makeup] Using this MITSUYOSHI sponge. Looks good. You can apply just one layer, I'd add more water to the brush for By applying a watered-down layer it'd give the look a glow. So I alter the second layer's thickness. I press my face with the sponge Then dry it. But if there's unevenness, Done. All white. Moving on. This is face powder. It helps to calm the skin and removes excess water. Okay. For the white powder on my lashes, I'll use a gauze towel to remove it. Okay, next. I'll glam up my eyes now. This is rouge for stage makeup This is what it looks like inside. Use a plate such as this Use your brush to soften it and pick up some color. Left eye first. Hmm. I'm going for it. [Eye Makeup] Use the tip of the brush to spread the color here Like this. Depending on the role I play, or make them round and cute. I'd adjust my eye makeup It depends on the theater. There are customers on the left, and on the right. As I'm being looked at I bear that in mind I'll add a little color to my eye's Yes. Looks great. I'm going to draw my eyebrows next. The most nerve-racking part. I'll do a rough sketch with red first. I'll be drawing the &quot;sasa mayu,&quot; Okay, next step. I can do black, but I'd prefer to use This is oil-based. I'll apply it on top of the red. Doing it now. Good. I'll follow up with This black shade. If this is a brow, Then I'll smudge it downward. I'll mix it with the red and brown That way, There. Next, I'll apply rouge to my lips. Make sure that you draw it I have the habit of pursing my lips So I need to paint it right to keep Okay, done! Let's move on to blush. This is Cheek Color #01 by MITSUYOSHI. I'm using this. Grab some of it like this. Rub it on the lid to blend it. Swipe it on By putting on this blush, the pink stands out very nicely It creates a very lady-like So blush is a must. Adding this pink Yes. Next step. Not sure what the brush is called. Looks like this. Use this to grab some powder. I'm going to contour my nose. Add some pink here. [Nose Contouring] Nice. Lastly, I'll use this small brush One stroke down from here. And one stroke here. Yes. And this is my final step. Eyeliner. Rubotan LINE LIQUID. The black shade. I think this is specially made I'm going to draw After putting on eyeliner, never ever Use a fan to dry them There. The lines are dry. That wraps up the face makeup. After makeup, And that completes the look. Something like this. Yes. This &quot;yukata&quot; robe was designed by me When a performance is over it's vital to properly These things are not good for the skin, This is what I use. I love using Curel products. This is Moisture Facial Lotion II. When I feel that my skin's dry, If I put this on first it makes my skin I love fragrances too. These are scented sachets. When I move, and that calms my heart. I highly recommend them. This is my makeup routine When I do my makeup, It's a precious time that I use Thank you for watching this video. If you're interested, It'd be great to see you. Thank you and see you again!