In February 2021, a winter storm that swept power crises in American history. The cold demands as people tried to keep their homes power supply because power plants themselves adequately protected against freezing weather. enough power to meet demand. Instead they demands down to manageable levels. But before grid the frequency of the alternating generators were bogged down, falling It might not seem like much, but that is a below nominal. Power plants have relays that keep if anything goes awry to prevent serious damage. the clock starts ticking. And if it doesn't the relays trip! That means the Texas total collapse. If a few more large few customers were shed from the system in have continued to drop until every single Thankfully, that nightmare despite operators preventing a total collapse, the and deadly disasters in Texas history. If it's almost impossible to imagine how serious in the theoretical boots of someone waking assuming the grid did collapse, and find out. In today's episode, we're talking about the Every so often some loud noise a truck backfiring on the street outside, a shelf. But it's a very different thing your unconscious mind telling you that the takes a groggy minute to piece it together. The the heating register, the ceiling fan above your You check your phone. It's 4AM. Nothing you can really do but go back to sleep and Most of us have experienced a power outage at some order of minutes or hours) and they're mostly wide area interconnection - that's the technical purpose. It has redundancies, multiple paths that and power users and producers are spread be impacted all at once. But having everyone if things go very wrong, everyone is affected. scale outages to the power grid, and a mismatch in Texas) is only one of the many reasons that engineering errors, and deliberate attacks can for the first few hours of an outage - you might more serious than a wayward tree branch tripping You wake up 3 hours later, cold, sunlight The power is still off. You grab your cell on. It has a full battery from charging too. You try to call a friend, but the call but still, nothing more than a friendly There is a vast array of pathways that the globe, and they all use grid power to optical terminals distributed throughout the nodes that service around 500 to 1000 customers base stations mounted on towers or rooftops. on prioritized grid circuits and may even have but even during a blackout where the entire grid service. That's because most telecommunication that can keep them running during a power like cellular base stations and data-centers generators have enough fuel to extend the major emergencies create huge demands on trying to find and share information at once, the services are still available. In the US, the providers to create priority channels so that and other matters related to public safety can Since you're trying to make a personal call and Service Priority program, you're not getting on your screen. It says that there's a power grid reality of the situation is just starting to set emergency alerts have become an important addition various levels of government to tv, radio, public warnings and alerts. During a blackout, media. It's how we keep people safe, connect Two-way communications like cell phones and the so one-way networks like radio and television These facilities are often equipped with more for the staff so that they can continue to Jump ahead a couple of days.Your circumstances an outage of this length can completely upend your that must be refrigerated or electrically-powered machine). But for many, a blackout on the diversion from the humdrum of everyday life. Maybe remaining in your pantry, enjoyed some candlelit the night sky than you ever have in your life. But get more serious. You ponder how long you can stay as you head into the kitchen to get a glass of A public water supply is another utility highly Pumping, cleaning, and disinfecting water a city is a power-intensive ordeal. Water is place to another takes a tremendous amount of generators and elevated storage to account for whether they are water towers or just ground-level batteries to make sure the water distribution But those elevated supplies don't last forever. required. In Texas, large cities must have at for every connection to the system, and half tanks so that it will still flow into the pipes varies quite a bit by location and season, but a city two days under normal conditions. Combine system at a typical water utility, and maybe they of emergency resources, water can quickly become during a blackout. But don't forget the related Lift stations that pump raw sewage and treatment to release back into the environment are energy that lift stations and treatment plants have overflows during an outage, but usually those power is lost for more than a day or two, these without additional fuel and maintenance. raw wastewater in the sewers will have to bypass waterways like rivers and oceans. In the worst exposing the people within cities to raw Flash forward to a week after the start of of pace is long gone. You still keep your but you rarely get a signal and phone calls out of gasoline and the fuel at filling stations critical facilities. You are almost certainly even if you've been able to share or barter with willing to open their doors and accept cash. like hospitals and radio stations plus those a functioning backup power supply. Everything of how complex and interconnected our systems of that can frustrate the process of restoring power Power plants are having trouble purchasing fuel and good telecommunications, banks and energy don't have power, so they can't send fuel to are down, so the coal trains are stopped. Public signals work, creating accidents and reducing at critical jobs like power plants, pipelines, and are having a really hard time actually getting might not know what to do. Most of our complicated public water systems, and the electrical grid sensors, and electronic devices that perform a Even if you can get people to the valves, with manual operations, they might not know The longer the outage lasts, the more reserves of and the more systems break down. Each of these to bring back online alone, and nearly impossible Electricity is not just a luxury. It is a own direct use of it, almost everything we orderly conduct of a civil society, is undergirded as we know it doesn't break down as soon as the days myself during the Texas winter storm, I have can be in the face of a difficult situation. people didn't come through on the other side of Natural disasters and bad weather but thankfully true wide-scale blackouts have doesn't mean they aren't possible, though, preparedness is one of the most important roles lot we get right about being ready for the worst. personal preparations for long-duration power for supplies to keep on hand at FEMA's website. finding a balance between the chance of disaster is a difficult challenge, and not everyone the other kind of preparedness is our ability get everyone back online as quickly as possible. enough, but there are some enormous engineering from nothing. That's the topic we'll cover in sure you're subscribed so you don't miss it. Thank