This is the gospel of Mark, Mark the Urgent Gospel, and I'll explain that series and we're going to do a little gospel the urgent gospel because, a of the four gospel records. Probably was see that, because if you read Luke taken directly from Mark. And Luke he's put a history together, so part of come from Mark's Gospel. Mark spends Jesus's family background. It's amazing, all give the birth and the prophecies. the Word and the Word was with God, and Mark jumps right in verse one, Jesus, that out of the way, let's keep moving on. and I mean, he's driven. It's making a witness for Jesus as soon as as always when we're studying a text of background information. There were two which the gospel was circulated, and it First of all, it was circulated, what we A.D. During this time the gospel was word of mouth by the apostles and verse four. Some of Jesus' sayings were like little information tracks we give in the racks there, well some of His sayings the beginning, or they carved into bowls or they were carved or on the doorpost. there's the written period 60 to about more permanent records grew, the Gospels this need. The number of eyewitnesses was be recorded for future generations. were studying Thessalonians, remember Jesus was going to return in their didn't, they didn't feel the need everything, why record anything for the generation, but as they began to die off martyred and so on and so forth, they this material. So 60 to about 100 A.D., epistles were written, copied, and kept. written between 60 and 70 A.D. Some makes it a very early writing. Now, we authored by God for several reasons, For several reasons, we've done this in record, kind of review this very quickly. inspired, because the Bible makes this Jesus says, &quot;But the Helper, the Holy name, He will teach you all things, and said to you.&quot; Jesus, in advance, is to say in the future, they're receiving from the Spirit, that He, Himself, sent. Then in Second Scripture is inspired by God and correction, for training in righteousness.&quot; All of it, not just some of it, all of it Peter, again, familiar versus Peter says prophecy of Scripture is a matter of was ever made by an act of human will, from God.&quot; Again passages, all right, where says of itself that it's inspired. and studied the Bible and said, hmmm conclusion it must be inspired. Well, as you're reading through it, it says have is to believe that or not to we believe that it's inspired, as I say, reason we believe that the scriptures Interesting to note that the Bible is hundreds of prophecies that were that are studied by scholars, the holy books of the Hindus and the Muslims, they all have holy books, but none of them have this feature They have laws and rules and poetry and and how the world was created. Yes, they the feature of prophecy and certainly one example to demonstrate that, the prophet Daniel prophecies major world powers would be in can't do that unless God is doing that. for maybe 20 years down the road, and you make an educated guess. But 600 years down the road, the fourth kingdom of God coming during that fourth So only the Bible has that. The only if the book itself has a supernatural God is the source of the Bible. And then itself. Sixty-six books written by over 40 which didn't know each contradiction, no mistakes, only one story a couple of reporters covering stories and you get all kinds of on the story. This idea here of the without divine guidance. And I always say not created something else like it with and all of the education that we have reproduce something like it. We haven't. believe the scriptures are inspired. of course, the impact and longevity of just mentioned the few basic ones. So together, they can only be explained in conclusion and that is that the Bible is but rather, it is a text inspired we, as Christians, believe that that important to lay that foundation because inspired work. The men to record His thoughts and words and style and in their own language. And one Mark, is one of these Gospels. Interestingly, the book of Mark says nothing about its author. Paul, I this is my signature, he names to the author here. Nothing about points to John Mark, who was the son of Jesus, another Mary, common Jewish name, with her family in the city of Jerusalem. was to her house that Peter went after the angel released Peter from jail he John Mark's mother, Acts 12:12. was very active in the early church and began to work with Paul the Apostle. covered more than a 30-year span. So very that, again, just give us some background. association with the Apostles begins mother among the first converts First used as a meeting place for the Apostles 12. Some believe that he was the young In the Garden of Gethsemane, in Mark the ear of Malchus, the servant, right, away and there's a young man there, we'll there's a young man there, wrapped in a and it says he ran, the young man ran in the, just dropped in the time in the garden and Judas drama, and in the middle of this, you have running through the night young guy? Well, many scholars believe self-reference that he makes about why do it. From 40 to 50 A.D. Saul and Jerusalem and they take Mark along with jumping-off place for the first Acts chapter 12, verse 25. Saul and missionary journey, Acts 13, kind of a we find out that he loses, John Mark Jerusalem, doesn't complete the trip. And with Paul, not so much with Barnabas, with Paul. And when Paul decides to go had established Barnabas is game to go Paul says no, no, no, he abandoned us and there's the dispute between Paul and broke off association and Barnabas took and Paul took Silas and went off on the journey. So that's some of the action A.D., Mark is restored to fellowship with even commends him to the church as a verse 10 and Philemon verses 23 and 24. about Barnabas, what is, helping to rehabilitate John Mark's story that there's Paul and Barnabas and they, yeah well, you go your way, Wonderful lesson for us, didn't quit the church, they just stopped eventually they were reconciled. A very Christian thing happened to kind of then 60 to 70 A.D. Paul, near the end of as a faithful co-worker, Second Timothy is associated with Peter the Apostle, he the events and teachings that Peter has apostle First Peter chapter 5, verse 13. When you're reading Mark, you're reading Peter. So over 30 years of to him by Peter, which we now refer to as at the gospel itself. We know that Mark during Jesus's ministry and the church historians and writers tell us during the period before Peter's death record of what Peter said and saw and and the early church all knew Mark and church for over 30 years. Very important, legitimate, as inspired. It means that worked with Jesus and the Apostles, not Early church historians, who recorded the beginning of the Christian age, they all John Mark. Papias in 115 A.D, early church scholars and fathers in was an associate of Peter and that he write this thing. This is where we get have about Mark. His text, Gospel of Mark, apostles were still alive; 64 A.D., not all still alive. None of them disputed or any time, any one of the Apostles could fake, what he's writing, it's not good, but The reason I say all of this is to show be considered an inspired book and lots of books that were circulating at have 27 books that were written in the There were many books and articles and circulated about Jesus. So the task for which of these books are the ones into the canon. The word canon The canon of the Bible are those where that term comes from. A lot of be included in the Canon - three. time on this, because this is, this class matter, but just as far as Mark is had to be an apostle or a disciple of an an apostle, but he was a disciple and an Mark, he wasn't an apostle, Peter. Secondly, the work had authentically. Mark was a true church knew this, there was no criticism teachers about its doctrine or its widely circulated in the early churches Remember I've told you once before in dig up books that no one ever heard of inspired. What they did was they examined centuries and had already been those are the ones that they selected to those books. Mark has all of these inspired book of the Bible. of Mark is clear, it's very free of again, like John for example, the Gospel Roman mind. And Mark's gospel Jew can read it, but it's really directed direct, to the point, rather, so Rome working with Roman Christians. So it would make sense that this book, material, would appeal to Romans. It seems who did not have a Jewish background, to Jewish history, unlike Matthew. When you reading? This was done according to Matthew is, not to show Jesus saying what he's saying and doing from some of that, didn't even bother. And, of they wanted their information in summary Give me the big picture, just was their mindset. And so Mark is a this, and then He went there, and He did said this, and then after that, this a description of Jesus's life, and His resurrection, with very little background philosophizing. Mark doesn't spend a lot said this, this is what He meant. No, he - like a snapshot. It's like a postcard. to a friend, sharing deep thoughts. gospel is totally christ-centered, and resurrection, and then it just ends. character analysis, he doesn't dwell on action and reaction, and you'll see that this is that more space is given over to Gospels. Eighteen out of the 35 possible lot, more than half of all the miracles of course, when he wrote it, it didn't have Also, Mark takes time to kind of Jesus, and these are carefully noted. to people who were either describes the reaction that people point, colorful and powerful. It tells the background information and then it ends baptized and be saved. Disbelieve and Sometimes we offer the direct? You might be who's visiting from Boston or something. don't respond they'll be it, straight ahead. So the reader is forced to deal with the says, okay, this is Jesus, these are the 18 the resurrection, okay, so those who saying - you people who've read this with Pretty much. The central theme of have a debate about it, Jesus Christ is point of the gospel. And Mark divides his here they are: first part, the 1, verses 1 to 13; second part, proof of and His miracles, chapter 1, verse 14 all number 3, proof of his divinity through chapter 8, excuse me, verse 27 to chapter appeals to the practical mind. Each book before, has a purpose and has a course, its purpose is the same, always to more specifically, Matthew wants to show according to Jewish prophecy. And he Mark, on the other hand, as I said, not Jews, he's interested in proving that Gentile audience. So the audience of Mark is the world, terms that the Bible declares that Jesus world. You can deny this, you can Mark doesn't teach this. I say studied with all the time, you don't don't have to believe it, but what you can't do says. Your argument is not with me, here, hopefully, to clarify it for you and of Mark is a great first book to read wondered - people ask do you do, what with doctrine, start with reading the have a Catholic background, I grew up Catholic. I went to Catholic school, taught in monastery, seminary, the whole thing. So Church and it's practices. And people to convert or to approach someone who's Catholic, questions. do you kind of, they could kind of go to the Catechism and wrong, Mary was not ascended Mary, where is that in the Bible? get them to read the Bible. Period. Just there will come the questions, not your when I first started. I mean, I and I bought a Bible to read on the train. Never had read it. Imagine 28 years School Commission, had taught religion, I imagine teaching a religion class Bible, it wasn't required. You had to read Every teacher had the syllabus, I had knew, because that's what I studied as a The nuns, and later on the Christian education, I had a great education. You you learned Latin, and all that kind of Bible. And so when I began reading the minute, this is the religion that I the book upon which my religion is such a huge contradiction here. So I find somebody who could answer my Remember, when we say, church of Christ, people. I found one of those guys Jim Meder, he was a Bible guy, he was a preacher, he knew the Bible. So I of years that nobody could answer. I'd question, I named make me repeat, is that take out this Bible and, okay go does it say? Well it says blah, blah, blah. says? Yeah, that's what it says. Okay, next question, he wasn't out to challenge me, what, nearly 30 years of education, and show me where the Bible answered the needed a little more elaboration, okay well, we came to understand, why did they use that word. bit of background in the Greek. What it than that, his answer was always let me and he let me learn the Bible and he this to say that if ever you're going to necessarily with someone who's a especially with someone who's not lingo, church is even a little book to read. Short, to the point, lots of line is, if you don't believe that Jesus cornerstone of our religion, well then it The fact that Jesus is the Son of try this, do that, obey this, deny He has no moral thing over me, He's just man, a good man, a morally upright man, an me. He can't tell me what to do, right. because in lesson 2 we start the This class is going to be a textual only one lesson to give the background, a most of you know this already. Next week going to ask you to do, if you're going It's not a long book. Read it a couple of the time I read it in class or put it up that passage, you'll have read that about it. You may even have some present you'll get some answers.