If you have ADHD and like disorganization, and emotion dysregulation, then you probably already know that the stimulants like Adderall and Ritalin don't do a lot That's where the and there's a newer one that shows promise at helping executive dysfunction. I'm Dr. Tracey Marks, a psychiatrist, and I make mental health education videos. The primary first line treatment for attention deficit or ADHD for short, is They fall into two classes, amphetamines like Adderall, and the methylphenidate class, which are medicines like These medications work very well for attention, concentration, and distractibility, and hyperactivity, but they're not so great for directly improving They may indirectly help, to stay focused without distractions, you may be better organized for that day, while the medication is working. But once the medication wears off, the disorganization returns. So what exactly are we talking about with executive dysfunction? I have other videos talking and I'll have them linked to this video. But briefly, you can think as things like planning, time management, organization, and even But another big one is Set shifting is the between tasks and then So let's say you're doing some work and you're in a groove and someone says, &quot;Can we jump on a quick call to discuss this thing? It should only last about 15 minutes, and then I'll let you Well, that sounds really benign. It's just 15 minutes, right? What's the big deal with that? For the person without a problem with set shifting, it's not a big deal. You just press pause, do the other thing, then unpress pause, and then But for the person with and executive dysfunction and not everyone with But if you do, that 15 minute quick call can just ruin your productivity And yes, that sounds really dramatic, like the rest of your day, really? Yes, really. If you have this, you know When you return to your work, it takes so much work from what you were just doing, or away from complete free flow mode where you're just thinking about a bunch of things By the time you settle down and refocus on the previous task, it may be an hour or more later, and now it's time for Here's why a stimulant medication may not solve this problem. If you're on a stimulant, you where when you have to stop you may have trouble letting go mentally from what you were doing and with the person to talk It's not like you can't talk at all, but your mind may be wandering while you're talking or listening, and you're not getting the most out of it. But even with the stimulant on board, the interruption pulls and that's enough to get It's like being on a fast The train can still move, and the friction brings it to a stop. And similarly, when you're done, you're not going to get unless you take another pill, which you shouldn't do if it's not time for you to take another pill. But some people will take a little more just so they can finish their work, and this is probably what is happening when as me as the doctor, that the medicine seems to wear off too quickly in the afternoon. That wearing off may be because or you're becoming tolerant, Or it could be because interruptions have caused you to lose your focus, and you can't get it back because of trouble with set shifting. So all of this to say work productivity is more complex when you So here's where the can come to the rescue. Currently, there are four available non-stimulant medications, clonidine, brand name, Kapvay, guanfacine, brand name Intuniv, atomoxetine, brand name Strattera and the latest one approved in 2021, viloxazine, brand name Qelbree. Clonidine and guanfacine have been around for more than a decade. Clonidine extended release and guanfacine in 2010. They were only approved and adolescents with ADHD, and still are seen as for children who can't or the doctors may use them to add to their stimulant They also may be a good to target impulsivity in Atomoxetine, Strattera, was actually the first non-stimulant approved for ADHD in So it's over 20 years old. It's also been used for people who can't tolerate stimulants, or as an add-on to the stimulant. In my experience prescribing it, the results for my adult patients was just kind of so-so. The stimulants always seemed to work better and faster. Now we have viloxazine, Qelbree, and a recent 2023 study compared it directly to Strattera. The results were that and worked faster, within and two weeks for adults. Unlike stimulants, Strattera and Qelbree have to be taken daily. Strattera can take a month or more to see a good effect. Both medications are so they increase the amount of norepinephrine in This increased norepinephrine has a secondary effect and serotonin in this region of the brain. Also, in this comparison study of Strattera versus Qelbree, of the people who had Qelbree 85% of them tapered off the stimulant after they were stabilized on Qelbree. That's a big deal to feel like Qelbree was enough to use all by itself and they no longer needed the stimulant. Then here's the other important finding. Another study that I'll have linked in the description of this video showed that Qelbree significantly reduced executive function deficits. The caveat here is that and you can't always generalize those kinds of results to adults. But the fact that the profile of the drug shows that it improves in children is promising for this purpose in adults. Qelbree is still a brand drug, so your doctor may need to complete an insurance authorization in order for your insurance to pay for it. Some insurances will require that you try and fail Strattera before they will pay for Qelbree. Thanks to the Mental Wellness Space Store for supporting this video. I am the creator of this online store that offers products like canvas prints, wall posters, tumblers, shirts, digital workbooks, and other tools designed It's wellness woven into everyday life, reflecting my mission to integrate mental It's about celebrating and And just as the shirt says, mental health commands Join me in pulling up a chair and bringing mental health Thanks for watching today. See you next time.