Good morning.. I hope your day is full of optimism and happiness . The supplies that I received from Syria encouraged me to prepare a traditional breakfast like the one we used to eat in Aleppo. Reviving the ancient rituals of the Syrian family's breakfast is an opportunity for me to remember the beautiful moments engraved in my imagination by chance. Today my big sister will visit me to bid me farewell. Before leaving Turkey and returning to Qatar, I apologize to everyone whose tears were caused by the previous video. I did not mean to pray for you that joy and happiness prevail all your days . Olive salad is one of the popular appetizers in Aleppo. I learned this delicious dish from my mother. We put a little tomato paste, red pepper paste, some dry mint and pomegranate molasses . The two main ingredients are olive oil and olives, which can be used after removing the core, or as it is, this is the method we used to serve olives that still retain some bitterness . As for this cream, it is my favorite dish until today After adding honey to it , as for the cheese that my mother sent, it is very salty, so I have to boil it in order to moderate its taste and lose most of the salt in it for a long time. I stopped eating white bread and started eating brown toast for breakfast , but the Syrian breakfast today cannot be complete without this white bread :) This is the soil that my sister brought with her from the land owned by my family in Aleppo. I decided to put it within this plant that has been accompanying me in my house for about a year and a half. I imagine that I will smell Syria every day and every hour, but every moment I sit in my house. I came to the nearby Esenyurt Square Relatively from my home, I don't shop some things in this store. Almost everything is sold here in Turkey. It is called AVM . I recently bought some kitchen supplies from this place . The prices here are reasonable compared to other places. As for this street, it contains a For many clothing stores suitable for different ages and genders , at this time of the year, the prices decrease, and I saw the discounts myself while I was walking around here. This price is 350 Turkish liras. There is a slight difference between the prices according to the method of payment. The market is that it contains clothes suitable for all tastes , to be honest, I was looking for a jacket for me, but I did not find what I liked . As for this store, it is the store from which I often buy clothes for my children. It seems that green, orange, red and pink are the colors prevalent in the market these days . The foods that the Turks are famous for, I want to buy these dried fruits. I advised them by my husband. He asks me to read its name, and when I read it, it caught my attention a lot . It is called Paradise dates. Those who do not prefer sweets that usually have a lot of sugar can replace them with these dried fruits. Also on this street in Esenyurt there are many Syrian shops and many of them sell Syrian sweets. Sahlab is also sold here on the Syrian way. These are the things I bought from the market during my tour . Among the clothes I saw, buying these two pieces because of their distinctive color and model, these dryers that I bought, and I decided to try the peach dryer before my sister arrived. I had to prepare a recipe for one of the famous Syrian sweet dishes. In the shape of the triangle of the warts, we grease the upper face of this dough with melted ghee. It is placed in the oven at a temperature of 180 degrees Celsius for ten minutes . When it is cooked in the oven, I will take it out and stuff it with cream . I should have bought Arabic cream from the market, but I forgot, so I decided to prepare a similar cream at home. Two cups of Milk and 5 tablespoons of starch, stir until it holds together while it is on the fire, then add two tablespoons of butter to the mixture. After the mixture has cooled down a little, add the creamy cream to it. All ingredients must be mixed either manually or using an electric mixer. Add the cream to a pastry bag and put it in the refrigerator for a while until it cools down . My sister prepares Arabic coffee. This coffee can be obtained from the supermarket, but when boiling, we add some cardamom and saffron to it. It should boil well for some time, then pour into This mouth is ready to be served. I served with this coffee dates, nuts and dryers, and I also cut some fruits and put everything on the table. It's time to serve sweets with Syrian coffee. Stuff the warts in this way.. The process is easy and decorating is easier . If you have any questions or inquiries, write it in the comments, and I will try to I answer you in each video to one of the important questions. I put roses next to the coffee when it was served, perhaps to ease the sadness that I feel whenever I remember that my sister will leave soon and get away from me again. If you had a good time with me, like and do not forget to subscribe to the channel . Thanks for watching. new