It is our last podcast before we take a little break Apple TV+ show. It's our final episode Today, an unprecedented podcast, this historic, hysterical podcast. Donald Trump, a sitting former non sitting, standing president, has been indicted. If you watch the news, it does appear in droves But we're going to talk about this two tiered justice system today, one that Donald Trump has suffered so greatly under. Please welcome to the program. David Dayen, executive and Dr. Phillip Atiba Goff, co-founder and CEO, And Carl, I Hovland, and professor of psychology David and Phil, thank you for joining us. - Thank you for getting that whole title in there. Well done. Let me tell you something. I talk as fast as I need to to get out. The problem I'm having is I could get this done much easier. Second lead on, "3rd Rock From the Sun," and boom we're into the conversation. You see what I'm saying. My old life was much easier. Gentlemen, please talk to me about -- It's as though you can't be a rich billionaire ex-president That the man will keep you down. Is that where we're at? Is that where we're headed, gentlemen? It's sad day. Sad day in America when that's the case. I think this is a case, something that So you have someone that is so out there that is essentially a who is just daring the system - to take it on and takes up -- preferred - Yes. Yes, for decades, the whether in real estate corners And it it moves all of the focus over to this particular indictment, whereas, you know, corporate crime that goes on is forgotten. And the true state of our justice system, where who you are certainly matters a whole lot And now it's it's of political prosecution, rather than the real biases in our justice system. That is exactly -- And, Phil, what is it in your mind have just discovered may not be fair? What must run through your mind, Phil? - So they might be on to something. - Are you agreeing with them sir? You know, and I want to be really clear. I think that their their formal position of defund - I think that -- Well, they've been defunding law enforcement DA's office in Manhattan. They have defunded the IRS and they've Let me tell you a little bit What? - Because -- I must say, I really want to say - And here's what I mean. So if I were to walk up to you and steal your wallet, And robbery is heavily, People come, they will beat you up. Yes. But if I work in a corporation out of the pockets of my employees, It's called wage theft. So when this country in 2019, what is the amount of, I'm sure stealing of wallets is much more - widly out of control, in the sense that wage theft is literally over 100 times larger 100 times be $40 billion of wage theft Right. And yet the IRS, that would go and look at things like - wage theft after work. So it takes about 75% of its human towards To people And if you want to make sure the number one category up until the point because it was looking bad for them. Were folks who belong to the very elite that's the earned income tax credit, Yes. Means that you were five and a half times than any other group These are the folks that we choose who are getting money Now, Phil the question that becomes is if these corporations would just keep this money then we might have something, David, you know, now, what we talk about wage theft we're not even necessarily and all the white collar crime, forgetting about even the derivatives monstrosity We don't look at white collar crime, wage theft, fraud as crime. It's looked upon as a kind of price of doing business you know, we would find out and instead of throwing everybody in jail, "2%, let's say $5 How do you convince in other words, not funding the IRS to go what, $800 billion a year to this kind of thing that is stolen? You know, just tax evasion, Yeah, I mean, the amazing thing is that this this impunity for corporate In the 1980s, after the savings and loan crisis, we saw a thousand bankers go to jail in the Enron frauds in the early 2000s, And what happened and out of the crimes and the convictions in the Justice Department There was a memo by a guy named Larry Thompson, Uh oh, Phil's starting to nod. That's a bad sign. Phil is nodding. It's a very bad sign. Go ahead David. You know, previously the options for the Justice Department, or fraud in a corporation, And then this third option in the Thompson the deferred prosecution agreement. - Deferred prose-- Yes, deferred prosecution agreements delinquency like a century ago And we didn't So we where we'd we would watch him - And over years, if he rehabilitated we would get him back And and so we wouldn't prosecute Is the thought there are not fully developed yet? - Yeah, pretty much. until they gain a more sophisticated - Exactly. Exactly, so with DPAs, which started by the way, in a corporate context was by a woman at the Southern District of New York - who prosecuted Prudential -- Prudential with a deferred prosecution agreement. She later became the head of the SEC, of the Sackler family, the personal lawyer So, now wait a sec. Even Faust, even the devil, "You really want to take those people on? That family? Is that what you want?" Now, that was a rare case in 1994, memo comes out in 2003, and DPAs are But after that, they explode. They become the standard way prosecutions are carried out. They they are essentially given a fine. There is an independent monitor set up that like, "Hey, for five years, we're going to be watching you." - It's like putting them on parole. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. nothing ever happens that was true There was a DPA there And prosecutions of individuals - since that time. Phil, you know, it's the kind of thing In the two tiered" -- because I'll tell you why I think the government is doing that. The DPAs. I don't I think they're fucking tired. They don't have the resources or the money after these criminals Because if your wallet is thick, you can delay, And is it that they've learned not to even bother Is that what this is? So I'm so glad I didn't know how nerdy and how quickly Oh, we're getting nerdy, baby. We're going Thompson Memo and it's only getting worse. You talked about it being the bankers you know, I don't know how many bankers, may be actually but I actually think it's the other piece, to preserve their innocence until later. Right? Because these aren't people That was the idea of which interestingly, are reserved Right? Folks who aren't Native American. Now, in the ways which is why to this day, Black kids are 18 times more likely to be tried - So this idea -- - Oh, yeah. - Yeah, I mean like much less so. then it's 18 times more likely - Yeah. I think we're OK." Right, 14 but you kind of you crimed It looks very much - I think we're done here. I'm upset because you look more masculine So, like, part of our criminal justice for who is deserving of certain kinds of punishment, and who has made a mistake - But they're not the crime type of people. And so the Thompson memo essentially says who they're going to delay forever, You can't really prosecute. This gives you But also, these crimes are so diffuse, There are people who are beneath them Do we really want to punish them in the same way that we used to would be the ones who were setting people - Now we say -- - bad actors. voice to happen Right. Crimes And a DPA allows you to say, "Hey, you were ultimately responsible for it, Your salary was dependent And there's no admission of guilt. There's no at a DPA. You just say, "Boy, this kind of Is it? Let me ask you, how much the Supreme Court's changing of the definition of corruption, because it feels as though the society decided at some level that if we had a Venn diagram of unethical and illegal, right? And that area in the middle there, has built a hotel and casino a lack of ethics and illegality, the system has decided to say "unless it's explicit, unless you "I'm doing this to steal so that they'll have difficulty unless you explicitly make it quid pro quo Does that then hamstring any ability the SCC or the Department of Justice I mean, that's true in the corruption Yes. - That that would change-- Right. And it's not like it's very hard massive pieces of documentary evidence. If you think back to the financial crisis you know, we ended up having all of these mortgage backed securities and they were not created in the style they proved the actual ownership. The documents were never - They were mortgage molecules - That were clumped together. And so in order to cover up for that, the banks mass produced on an all of these documents to prove that they were, in fact, the owner of these various homes and So the idea that there was, "oh, there's no documentary evidence, There were literally millions There was a place in Georgia were mass produced, and they were all done who were signing their names signing someone else's name, - the names of these various officers of the bank They would just post-date it as though - it was artwork. - Backdated it, right. They used the name Linda Green Doc X, this document And they said, "Well, Linda Green's name, this bank and her name was easy to spell And so that's why we use Linda Green." So in the public records there is Linda Green of signing her name, Absolutely nobody was. And the information is there. And what we ended up that were, you know, DPA like in Nature, "Okay, you have to give principal reductions or you have to give Or, my favorite, "your sentence is to lower income people, - Like sentences you've got to get in the subprime That's your sentence. You've got to get to payday loans. It's like telling someone convicted robbery Like, that-- it's ridiculous. And this is the way we dealt with the largest operation of mass fraud in recent memory. Explicit fraud were trying to pass toxic mortgage-backed derivative assets knowing that they were shit and not telling them because they and that's why they refused to But Phil, this gets us into the consequence of that lack of So Linda Green, or the many Linda Greens, are signing away these documents and they're getting back and people are losing their jobs and they are left poverty And what happens sometimes in communities that have been decimated by poverty? Wage theft? Is that where Boom. Is that? No, it's not. - Okay, there we go. yeah. We're talking about robberies. We're talking about crimes of desperation. We're talking about drug use, That put them at risk where they will pay non-DPA penalties. Correct? That's exactly correct. And so part of like And I actually think that's because it's hard to show Now, you draw the thread, Someone had to know, but was it me? Was it Linda Green who didn't exist? Like, was - And did you mean it? - Did you mean to commit the fraud? And so, and I want to be clear, in the context of corruption, And I really want to make sure at the end of "an historic day," And Yale, no less. Hey, so but it's not just for business This is also the standard So if you don't mean So the one for one for one standard, any kind of, DOJ gets "You have to engage in willful which the way we've done that "Hey, I beat you up because you were black" "I beat up all the black people And I say that out "I think black people deserve to be beaten. They have earned these beatings Some of them deserve to be shot I can say all of those things, but if I don't say "I'm doing this and because I hate black people," if I don't get that explicit, right, now it's not a deferred but it is a consent decree which is, hey, we kind of agree that It's not the chief's fault. It's But we're going to watch for a little while But we're going to have some metrics, and then it's going to be expensive which, by the way, the poor people pay But that's how-- and it's done. And at the core of all of this once you have systems and institutions, we don't know how to think We know how to think We know how to be in charge We don't know how to hold individuals that they wreak, because even though these things are so in almost every police department It's obvious and the subprime mortgage industry. All of those things were obvious We can't decide on who much less how to regulate those systems on the backs of vulnerable people. I think I would put that in that I think those responsible and those culpable We've lost the muscle memory, of actually summoning - I mean, if you look at - 1980s because when have we really I understand that a thousand bankers But the 80s was also the crack epidemic and those bankers went to play tennis and somebody who bought crack on - But have we ever - Yeah. You know, you can say that we never had - We had several. That's my point. We had several bronze ages Right. But the mechanism is the mechanism, for how we would go about You find you flip the lower level guys you get them into the corporate boardroom You do a RICO. Exactly. And that is done in those contexts in organized crime where the person you know and in a C-suite, Right. So the mechanism is there. The problem is several fold. One is this sort of out the way the Justice Department The second is prosecutors and the They go to the same schools. They live in the same neighborhoods. They're on friendly terms and they cut deals with one another. - And that cultural aspect to each other in the way that they don't That's correct. And I think the judges So you have and then there's prosecutors to take a risk, to say, no, we're actually going to try There's a famous story, it's in the book, The Chickenshit Club. And the book is by Jesse Eisinger, he's a very good Pulitzer And the Chickenshit Club refers to, it's actually James Comey who comes and he asks, And very proudly, And he says, "Well, of the chickenshit club, and that's You're so desperate that you're going And that's what a DPA is. And that's what, you know, a fine is And so that's the culture And it's very hard to knock that down. Well, because it's also, aren't we also operating against in the human brain, which is, white collar corruption doesn't threaten my safety, of hollowing out the resources creating giant swaths of Not thinking along those lines. Chaos is what, you know, if you looked at video you would think, "My God, But that is a metaphor for what corporate actors But as long as they're not carrying it out in diaper bags, then it doesn't And so we don't view it as a harbinger You know, I don't know how reptilian if it's on our nightly news Maybe we've been made And I want to be clear for somebody's long term safety Right. You're highly unlikely to be victimized And if you don't live that stuff is not coming for you, And yet the pension raiding the 100x larger wage theft But this is what I mean by an inability And then point taken in terms of but only when we recognize that the entire I would love it if we recognize that We have made it legal. In fact, we have made it something where you get to go After you have engaged run the largest philanthropic enterprise If you have been a member of Enron. And yet we understand that they're engaged and stuff that raids pension funds, and for which the means of holding folks accountable, those people aren't the kinds of criminals And if you have a felony conviction you can't chaperon your kids field trips, even if you've done your time there are a gentleman about the 20,000 a felony conviction on your record prevented from doing in terms of licensing and buying something and chaperoning And like you said, the redemption arc for many of these white collar criminals or those that had is a presidency at a university And is it because Phil, with the exploitation of certain groups? It just feels better. It feels more right. We're comfortable with it. And a spoiler alert. A lot of that has to do with race. Wair what?? Are you trying to get my show canceled, young man? But it's fine. Thank you for calling me young man. Oh, but it's not just that like, we collectively are more comfortable. I want responsibility to reside where it resides. The folks who set up the systems in the first place, and who, by the way, are the ones who authorize the narratives to go on our televisions. All of those, the narratives that we get sold about are absolutely untethered to the reality of safety in vulnerable communities. Right. And we have decided that our systems should I mean, but it should bind some people and not protect them, protect other people and not bind them. Folks who end up being elite and privileged, right, we're protected. Right. But we're not bound. Nothing that nothing that happens to a college- I'm for the most part, I'm still black. So, like, there's always a chance of something terrible But for the most part, I'm protected and not bound, right. And the place places the folks who I grew up with, the folks they are bound and they're not protected. And that's the pattern that I hope that we're going to see today is that Republicans bring it back to full circle, Republicans who are outraged that Trump could possibly be bound by a legal system are saying that's not what this system is supposed to do and we should take money out of the system that does that. Quite right, we should be defunding and taking money out of systems that unreasonably bind, but do not protect individuals in our society, only, we should listen to the people who are bound which is vulnerable communities, not billionaires. Wow. Bars, my friend. Bars. David, it speaks to an idea that I think, you know, in this Republican Party that Donald Trump has harnessed kind of, imprinted by AM radio. that's kind of been imprinting that over the years in the majority of those red areas where it airs 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and it is powerful propaganda and a explicit reality distortion field that that is created. The populism that he rides on, somehow he's never mentioned to the judges he's appointed. Because if you look at the doctrine of right wing judges, they are anti-worker, anti-poor, anti the people that they say they're best representing. So how do they twist this? How do they get out of that lockbox We are the populist party. We just never mentioned it to our judges Yeah, never mention it to the policymakers. So, I mean, I don't think it's too hard to imagine a set of cognitive dissonance that goes on with individuals who are using that that sort of man of the people populist I mean, Trump has really done this for his entire life. If you think about it, he is a salt of the earth New Yorker A blue collar billionaire. So that is not terribly surprising to me. What I think might end up being interesting as Phil has brought out here is if that cognitive dissonance sort of gets pierced by the spectacle of this indictment and the reality of the the criminal justice system. We've seen this come to the surface a little bit with the January six prosecutions. And, you know, these discussions about, oh, it's really horrible being locked up you know, the the proper food and I'm really having a terrible time. All I did was wipe my feces on the speaker of the House's desk. But the point is like welcome to prison like, welcome to prison. This is a very punitive country, overly punitive when it comes to these things. We're number one baby. And we would welcome a discussion about how to decarcerate these various spaces and reserve them for the crimes that are really true and systemic. I mean, because the problem is that the systemic crimes are not the ones that usually get prosecuted. It's the individual They will find a way to twist it. What they're saying is this is an anomaly based on your hatred of this one man who standsfor the people. The actual system should be punitive to those street crimes and to leave our martyr alone. My favorite part of the dissonance is I was watching somebody, they were talking about Michael Cohen, the lawyer who went to jail for basically the same sort of situation that is being dealt with today. And someone said, "How can you trust Michael Cohen? He's a felon" And you go, right, you do know wht he's a felon, right? That's I mean, that's for the crime that he's being accused of right now. But, Phil, talk to that, which is you're right, this system, it's like if if Al Pacino, in a Justice for All, This whole system is out of order. And they went, yes, it's completely out of order. Our leaders should walk free, and those people who steal wallets should get 15 years. Yeah, and so it's the people who are deserving of it. Right. Like that. That's the whole bit, right? The bankers aren't deserving of it, our guys aren't deserving of it. Those folks are supposed to be protected, not bound. But these folks, they're deserving of what they're getting. I got two folks talking about cognitive dissonance, and so it got mentioned three times, and, like Beetlejuice, the psychology professor has to come out and say, it's only cognitive dissonance if you think about it. You have to have cognitions around it. And what's happened is we've got a narrative I believe that there are there are who genuinely, genuinely believe there are big interests. Right. And those big interests. Again, they're racialized, like we want to be anti-Semitic with them so we call them Soros or we're big interest. Big civil rights is now a thing Yes, big CRT baby. The big interests that are set up to absolutely accost the victimized folks who are salt of the earth. And I am on their behalf because I am against anybody Now, if you are too stupid to be successful like me, if you are too poor to be successful like me, But you and I are in cahoots on the idea that there's someone coming to get people That story, that narrative is more powerful than our systems because our systems rely on a shared reality. And we have one group of folks who is incredibly large right that they've got a shared reality that is disconnected from the cognitive dissonance we all would feel in that situation. But that shared reality is explicitly a lie. And when you look at anymore or text message, when you look explicitly at somethinglike a media organization like Fox News where they say, we will perpetrate this reality distortion field, we will continue to prop it up, the infrastructure of it, the hologram that we have created, because to not do so would be upsetting to the people whose world we have shaped and created. And we don't want to undercut that. And so that's what you're fighting. Fox News gives us a fantastic example of the ability to to speak out of both sides of the mouth Fantastic example. But what's for me, critical in the lessons of Fox News is that intention is not required. They didn't need to know all of that. Right. To be able to do. All you got to do is be like, our audience is really upset about this. We should tell the story this way. And I genuinely believe that there are good faith people who are who have been suffering at the of the bad faith who know better, who are they're just replicating the story. And it makes enough sense. You feel me? The difference between ignorance and malevolence but certainly epidemic and malevolence being a much narrower slice, but much more easy to gain power and control. And that's how they do it. And David, it also speaks to our view in this country of a president as shockingly above the law. As much as we like to believe that we are a meritocracy and egalitarian and a representational democracy, man, Not just for what, I mean, Donald Trump has exposed the way that he does business,but presidents down the line have not been held accountable for any of the variety of of misdemeanors and felonies that they've-- I mean, 50 years ago on national television, Richard Nixon said if the President does it, it's not illegal. We have been down this road before. And the arguments that Gerald Ford made to pardon Nixon for those crimes were very similar to the arguments that you're seeing today. We can't put the nation through this terrible spectacle. There will be consequences down the road. There will be tit for tat. We just can't do it. We have to hold. It's a there is no alternative kind of thinking. We have to hold presidents somehow outside the law. And Trump is a manifestation of that lack of accountability, whether it was Nixon, whether it was Reagan in Iran-Contra, and Bush in Iran-Contra, whether it was you know, we had a president 20 years ago hundreds of millions of people in Iraq, that did extrajudicial drone killings, I mean, you know, you go down the line, the litany, the rap sheet that we have on presidents is much larger than the people now sitting in our nation's prisons. But we have internalized this idea that Ford laid out very explicitly 50 years ago. And now we're seeing it come to the fore again, even with someone so obviously corrupt I mean, that's kind of my theory is that I think one of the reasons is kind of the Costanza, the Seinfeld thing. It's not a lie if you believe it. I think one of the reasons Trump is truly baffled by this is, he's want, you know, his company, Trump Organization, was not a publicly owned company, so he ran by dictate by fiat. Right? He was the king and ruler, you know, prima nocta. He could come in and do whatever the, you know, whatever he wanted to do and his ass is kissed for 40 years. And so the presidency, far from being a kind of democratic institution that doesn't live up to its potential, to him, is an extension of this, I, I decide there is no checks there are no checks and balances at that organization. So why would the country what it is, is he made the United States a subsidiary of Trump Inc as opposed to bringing whatever business expertise he had into a democratic system. And I think it's why he's so baffled by this. Yeah, and to be clear, no one came along and held Trump Inc accountable, not since the civil rights violations in the seventies. But we don't like to talk about that. And so right- Exactly. The Manhattan D.A. had two choices. He had two investigations that were going. One was these payouts to Stormy Daniels, Karen McDougal, whatever. And the other was was about the Trump Organization itself and its inflating of its values when it needed loans and the deflating right. This prosecutor took one and got rid of the other, maybe to other businesses where you could have set a precedent. It reminds me Weisselberg went to jail. And in the one that you're talking about In terms of the things everyone around this cat, his lawyer, his campaign manager, his accountant, I think he's the one that's he might be entrapping these poor people and getting them to commit crimes. He might be the guy Yeah. I mean, I've got to quote Nas. How can a kingpin squeal, though, right? Like he can't be the narc if he's the CEO. It doesn't work quite that well. I don't know. I went to a chatroom and that he's doing this whole child He's going to round them up any day now. So the storm is coming. You're saying that this is all -- it's Your idea would be in line with that, by starting with his own organization I'm going to take sort of the realm of nerdy discussions of what the actual, you know, white collar crimes and corruptions are, is there a better system and my anger where these kinds of things can be held Rather than 24 hours of a 7-Eleven security footage a man driving to the airport, which I can never get enough of But what if there was... angrily on the things that you're both and educating their audience and what the context is, couldn't Please say yes. I mean, that's why I talk about this a peacock prosecution. One of the good, I think, models for they called the pharma - Yes. patents on very, you know, what they call orphan drugs and then jacking up the price. and jailed for what they called securities It wasn't for that -- what I just described, it was that somehow I thought he was jailed There's also that aspect of it. That's what I thought had happened. But here's the point. In the years since Shkreli did that and then went to jail the entire system has essentially adopted that practice of of using their patent authority to to jack up prices, He was a useful object that could be focused upon because he was kind of a dick, to turn everyone's - from the actual adoption of those crimes - the systemic crimes happening below him. And I think this is a very similar aspect. So the question is, you know, It's illuminate that very ordinary, set of crimes that we live within and meander through and... And be relentless. Be as relentless I yeah, I wish I could agree. So first of all, it would be banned in Florida. So there's limited utility It doesn't have to go everywhere. I'm not saying go everywhere with it. So I got to say, media, We want better media. We need better media. But media can't be an education for the way that power structures So we think about education but it wasn't always its own thing. Like you go to school so you can work certain sets of jobs and in some cases the way we set up increases class stratification It's not a great equalizer. It should be. It can be, when it's equally distributed, So that's not just because the education That's not what's going on. We've got moneyed interests that say we want to keep this education system We want elite status that our kids can be -- in the buildings that are named after us, It's a more complex system than that, education to be able to So what I'm saying of the petty thefts that rich people pull in vulnerable neighborhoods ...if we had narratives that people had walking in But we don't. So when I talk about structural racism which allegedly has and my students are fantastic, They walk in, they say, "Well, cool, And they're not asking that sarcastically. So like, well who is the structure? Who do I hold accountable? They show up to college without the tools And what I'm saying is there are reasons we're seeing it play out, though that's a useful idiot We're seeing that play out all over Folks have a motivation. Let me back up You got I'm like, I'm at the end of a roll -- Oh, no, baby, come on, take us home. If we want to talk about how we get, We're talking about the fundamentals - That's the social contract. of what holds a society accountable Right. If you violate the social contract, That's the rationale For a criminal justice Right. The social contract says Charles Mills comes along. Charles Mills comes along. He writes this book, of philosophy And he says a racial contract is a And he says a racial contract is It says that there are some people It says that there are some people who get the full benefits And we're going to decide that to have a two tiered system is first, That's the political contract. Some people have more, Second, the people who have more They got to be good guys They got to be good guys the people on the bottom rise up. So how do you have the people with more That is the third pillar He calls that epistemology of ignorance. And what he means is you didn't And what he means is you didn't and you didn't want to know and you didn't want to know I am motivated or have collective language or have collective language It's why we need lawyers to understand Right. It's why we need economists So, if I could boil this Phil, it's this Apple doesn't really need when you're buying a let's say something from iTunes to have a 20 page terms of service thing to have a 20 page terms of service thing These things are purposefully obtuse. These things are purposefully obtuse. So that understanding and digesting So that understanding and digesting Therefore, ignorance Therefore, ignorance when it comes to those when it comes to those If you don't know what's going on through that credit card statement through that credit card statement long, when what it really should just say Or whatever it is that that that says But I'll ask you this, But I'll ask you this, this system requires this system requires more than just entrenched poverty That's right. This system requires entrenched poverty It requires a large underclass. It requires a large underclass. And something is And something is to join together as well. to join together as well. And what's so interesting about it now is that entrenched poverty class that entrenched poverty class of let's call them non of let's call them non-Black and brown people are the exact ones being activated being activated And that is on purpose. And that is on purpose. That's that's exactly right. Because going back to Nixon, Nixon said, we about to have a problem because poor people like unions, that they need to survive. And educated people don't like us We need to segregate the white poor We need to segregate the white poor because if the white poor folks - and the educated folks -- "you going to be left with nothing." He called that the Southern strategy. And it has been absolutely the plan on the political right - Wow. They don't want folks to know. They don't want folks to know. And it's those people in particular, I think it's important to add in the context of this sort of right in the context of this sort of right is that this lack of elite accountability is that this lack of elite accountability is what led to the rise of Donald Trump. is what led to the rise of Donald Trump. It's a rot at the heart of our democracy. If you can't have a situation where someone who's powerful where someone who's powerful ever gets held accountable, ever gets held accountable, to the pressing problems that you have. Explanations for your powerlessness. Exactly. And it's going to lead to demagoguery. And so I think when you and think about, you know, causes you have to look at this culture you have to look at this culture people who engage in these systemic crimes people who engage in these systemic crimes as part the biggest part, in my view of the problem not with better education around it, not with better education around it, to actually go after these people. Now, I mean, it is interesting really try to take down the web of fraud really try to take down the web of fraud It's interesting that so far - It's interesting that -- all they've gotten is like they've gotten Like they're not you know, It's the SBF guy right? I is interesting that there is you know you remember the Wells Sure. Where they had millions of accounts Carrie Tolstedt who ran that consumer banking operation at Wells She lied to the FBI, Right. Right. And one thing that you get them on. And one thing that you get them on. Yeah, exactly. And so it's good to see these one offs, but it's not a culture that's been created And that is what causes people And that is what causes people It's what causes people to listen to people who say, And it's very integrated into the sort of right Right. But when all that is exposed and as a reality distortion and as a reality distortion it's going to be a hard it's And it always is. And it always is. Gentlemen, my goodness. Just I could sit here talking to David Dayen, executive Dr. Phillip Atiba Goff. Phil! Co-founder and CEO, Center I'm just going to say Yale. Phil's at Yale, for God's sakes, Get a slice of pizza, Cuz he's brilliant. Jesus, guys, thank you so much. And I hope to talk to you guys again And I hope to talk to you guys again Always a pleasure. - Thank you. So that's it, guys. Please tune into the show on Apple TV+, The Problem. And also, we're taking We'll be back. I don't know exactly when, and we'll be dropping a few in there, here Anyway. See you soon. Bye bye.