Events like the Falador Massacre in 2006 A ticket came in, saying someone's running The Falador Massacre is one of the most Bro, there's... There's open world PvP. This is Durial321. One of the most extreme versions of bug abuse... In a way, this video doesn't need an introduction. The 6th of June, 2006. The Falador Massacre. One of the most infamous glitches in RuneScape The day that the most popular free MMO in saw players cut down in cities, The official documentary. The official history book. Its own space on wikipedia. Even being canonised in the lore and having the 10 year anniversary. People have talked about and referenced Heck, you've probably already watched a So what else is there to say on what is in RuneScape's long history? What can I tell you that countless of haven't already? Well, I never make a video unless I can And after months of collaborating with and diving through every other piece we're finally ready to give you the whole Time to buckle up and bank your items, of history that have piled up since the Our tale begins back in 2002, mystical fantasy land known as New Zealand. 12-year old Lincoln has heard about this new, and decides to sign up to it. A novel, medieval adventure game designed a sense of wit and charm that you don't The vast world is the perfect place for a And blissfully unaware of where this road in his details, and is ready to enter the Lincoln, who you probably know better as is quickly hooked by RuneScape He's eventually joined by his close friend, with a zero instead of an O. The duo play together and call themselves since their names kind of look similar if Lincoln quickly falls down the PvP rabbit hole, raises his stats and improves his gear He finds a good amount of success in this path, When RuneScape 2 was released in March 2004, Lincoln turned away from the Wilderness and some heavy bets on the line for the winner. Now, in 2004, most stakes were done through Lincoln already had decent PvP skills from but he could get an even bigger advantage In fact, he discovered that he could get using the Charge spell, available to everyone With the wealth behind him to buy all the 99 Magic in early 2004, becoming the 254th Now, with only 254 people at 99 Magic, using the skill to stake, it's not hard to guess that If you knew what to do, staking was an And Lincoln sure as hell knew what he was doing. The only thing he didn't know was what he That is, until a little birdie told the RuneScape gold was worth on certain sites. Lincoln started offloading some of his excess turning his gaming habit into an actual Highly against the RuneScape rules, if you But somehow Lincoln scraped by on just never receiving anything permanent. This might come as a surprise to you, when they do something wrong generally doesn't And so, the staking proceeds kept making him selling gold for about $17,000 New Zealand dollars equal to about 10,800 US dollars in 2006. And whilst his throwaway accounts got banned his main account remained active Now, Lincoln wasn't offloading EVERYTHING When you have that much money, So, he dumped some of his wealth into buyable skills, such as rank 318 Prayer with a level of 91, It's just a shame that he started to train those If he'd been able to grind the buyable skills he'd probably have been able to snag a few Wouldn't that be funny? Anyway, you'll never guess what they released Construction. Released on a Wednesday as far as Jagex were But that UK to New Zealand time zone meant that it A school night, no less! The burdens of real life stopped him from but he certainly put in the work. Buying up as many resources as he could he had the materials, he just needed the time. By the time he hit 65 Construction, That's not that far from Rank 1. It actually seemed... doable. It was time to go all in. Cursed You sold two partyhats from his collection giving him 250m in liquid assets. This wasn't just enough for 99, this was Cursed You opted to build Mahogany Tables, A very expensive - but very fast - method. Beyond this, he also recruited three friends being traded on the public market. This wasn't just to increase his supply: this was to ensure his competition wouldn't While three people weren't going to be enough to put a huge dent in it. As he stormed to Level 78, he still only had had accumuldated in this time. Both Monkey Moejo and Xn00bxfrei had 3.2 million and there was no doubt that they also had Cursed You was fast, but he had an education There was no way he'd be able to do this alone. So it's a good thing he wasn't alone. He was one half of the Cursed You brothers, So, over the weekend, he brought in Josh to While Lincoln slept, Josh would keep playing, the next morning and took over again. 24 hours a day of nonstop efficient training the ones who couldn't keep up. As he reached level 88, Cursed You hit The end was in sight - he just had to Lincoln PLEADED with his parents to let if he could train all day, the rank was his But if he couldn't, his foes would have Upon hearing their child ask to take time off his parents looked at each other, did the Yes. Who knows why they let him do it. Maybe they knew about his RWT earnings and as him working overtime at a job? But whatever the reason, it cemented his ultimate Now that his name was up in lights a lot of eyes fell on Cursed You. And this was during the RuneScape golden era. Who was this kid who came out of nowhere? How did they overthrow the competition so Can I see his house? The average player in 06 didn't really understand especially when compared to the modern knowledge we have of its mechanics. Everyone had just assumed that Rank 1 Construction coolest house in the game, and had pimped it out to the max. Cursed You's house was just of empty rooms, with naught but a single mahogany that was being destroyed and rebuilt over He didn't need anything else. That would be, dare I say... exp waste. Of course, it wasn't just adoring fans trying cheering him on or begging to see his His competition slid into the PMs to ask Or how big his bank was, because theirs was If you had 500m, they had 501m, that sort RuneScape was really just a kids playground The race was a lot closer than Cursed You Even after the days spent nolifing the skill, to being overthrown. What's worse, as he reached level 96, Not by his parents, mind you, they were happy to sink all day into the game. It was by his clan, DI, who were threatening kick him out if he didn't join them on a Just ignore the fact that he was racing for historic milestone, I guess. RuneScape really WAS just a kids playground This actually gave Cursed You a reason to Since everyone would want to have a look at up some minor furniture as decorations for the party he'd be hosting. This didn't last long, however, since he to get back to training, and he forcibly kicked out all the PKers from house party. Sometimes, foreshadowing is relatively obvious. This PKing trip could quite easily have cost But, once again, fate intervened, and he not kept his rank 1 position - he finally gave himself a buffer. By level 98, he was 1.2m exp ahead of rank and him being the first to 99 was basically With his future achievement locked in, Since you can't invite people to your house Cursed You decided to make flatpacks to get the last few drops of exp with his friends With a few planks and a couple clicks, Cursed the only player in RuneScape with 99 Construction to a small and intimate audience that didn't his computer in the slightest. Foreshadowing- With his achievement immortalised in screenshots, of people who had been requesting a private of the residence for days. Calls to action were posted on all the popular telling people to subscribe to Will Miss It future uploads. Or, as he put it, "Feel free to drop by - im on w111 with chat on. Rimmington btw". So, everyone remembers the Massacre as taking It's catchy, good optics, yada yada yada. But Cursed You is from New Zealand. That's so far off the side of the world, So the timezones have gotten pretty muddy some people say the party took place on the some say the 6th, some say the 7th. The uploader of the original Falador Massacre claims the party was held at 7pm Australian which would be about 10am in the UK. But Jagex staff claim they were woken up at try and fix the resulting issue, so that doesn't Luckily, we don't have to guess. Cursed You's party invitation was posted 1 hour prior to Jagex's timezone placing the party at just past midnight and still on the 5th of June for Funnily enough, Lincoln gave his buddy Josh put in working on Construction during those He couldn't risk getting banned during his Foreshad- Party-goers rushed to the house, building up quite an audience in a very short In only minutes, hundreds of players poured - all eager to see the Construction King, and the castle he had made. One such player was the (also) 16 year old hailing from the United States. Brian was... pretty much a nobody, really. Just your average RuneScape player at the A super cool teenager who was into metal music unlike any other 16 year old at the time. He'd actually got into RuneScape because friend of his; VooDooLegion who he'd met previously on a different game. Brian first tried out RuneScape in May 2005, which you all probably guessed the name of. That's right, it was... "s2 cell". Early on, he died to a scorpion and lost all and decided to just make a brand new account From that point on, Brian would go by a new One that would go down in the history books I mean, let's be real here. You almost certainly Brian by a different name. That one being... Durial321 quickly fell in love with PKing, ago. If he wasn't in the Wilderness, he was training or preparing to jump back into it. VooDooLegion eventually introduced him to a large PKing clan that had built up a good reputation in the community. They had weekly events where they would do like kill all the players at the Wilderness before the addition of Obelisks in April 2006 over the entire Wilderness. This was still 2006, so no-one was crazy at but Durial definitely knew how to PK, And sure enough, in the early evening Durial was sitting on Teamspeak with some friends when one of them, Alien, told him to come visit a house party in World the Australian Homeworld. Cursed You was the first person to hit 99 and was hosting a massive party that EVERYONE So, sure enough, Durial decided to hop over see what all the fuss was about. Interestingly enough, Cursed You had made a floor of the house where people could fight each other when PvP was turned on. Showing up with some basic gear he was wearing he stepped through the Rimmington portal, and got to partying. And by partying, I mean bashing other people's Perfectly safe, of course. You didn't lose anything if you died in it was just for fun. You'd just re-enter the house, climb back and start all over again. That's all it was ever meant to be. A place for safe, friendly PVP. Now, when I said everyone was at the party... Out of the 1200 players online in the world, 800 of them were all at the party. RuneScape worlds could reasonably hold up spread across the map without too much trouble. But if you had a lot of people in one place, You's home, things started to chug. And boy, was it starting to lag. About 30 minutes past midnight UK time, Durial, died in the dungeon and respawned outside before re-entering and made his way over ball thing" was. And as he gets to it, the screen freezes completely. A loading message appears in the top left And before he knows it, he's back in Rimmington, outside the house portal. So was everyone. Cursed You had kicked all several hundred out of his house, in a desperate attempt to His house was now only open to his friends eager to keep the party going as a small gathering The game lags, the minimap is filled with and the main game is covered by an endless of players obscuring everything. But something's not right. Some players have... healthbars? And they're going down? Maybe they're being attacked by a random No, they only just left the house. Nothing should be attacking them just yet. Trying to figure out what's going on, Durial into the ocean of players, expecting to walk to a different spot. But he's given an "attack" option, just like the one he had earlier while he Oh dear. So, what just happened? You might be surprised to hear this, what the cause for the open world PVP glitch In the years that passed, a few theories have in the community. Depending on who you ask, you'll usually it's to do with either the combat ring, where being expelled from the house while had combat enabled let you keep it, or the scrying pool, where being able to you into an invisible player, room let you spawn there with PVP still enabled. But there's no shortage of other theories, code change with the kitchen larder. But here's the thing: Durial was by the Throne Room when he got Using none of those things. And Cursed You's clan party at 96 Construction despite also expelling his avid PKing friends And it's not like they didn't try finding So, what gives? Well, searching for answers, I got in touch one of the most important developers at the Mod Ash, to shed some light on the whole situation. Keep that name in mind, we'll be seeing Ash didn't know for sure what the exact but he knows a lot about why it happened, and so do we. As such, we can make some pretty good guesses How the Player Owned House handled combat When you had PVP challenge mode enabled in it applied a variable to EVERYONE in the house that allowed combat. Literally, a blanket variable of You can kinda see how things went wrong, now. But wait, if this variable allowed you to why does PVP challenge mode only work in the That's because the House also had a second If you were on the ground or upper floor, the option to attack other players was hidden. A hacky solution, sure, but if you wanted pvp mode that only applied in the dungeon, it definitely worked. You just had to make sure that these variables Using the portal, teleporting, logging out the developer of the skill, Mod John A, thought all possible ways you could leave the house, and made sure this variable was reset when was missed. Knowing what we know now, there's a good that this missed check has to do with a piece of high level furniture - the Greater Magic Requiring 89 Construction, and only a week the initial release of the skill, most players had never seen one, nor interacted Neither had Cursed You built it when his clan believed they found a bug the day before, as shown in the image they took in the Throne during the same party - all which would explain why the bug wasn't found until now. As the cage is used to trap people, to them, which may have muddied the waters for the As mentioned earlier, Durial explained in interview 3 hours after the event that he in the throne room to check out the cage. But he's not the only one. A Swedish user on the DI forums explained after the Massacre that also he could attack after being teleported from inside the Greater None of the J-mods who had a part in the fixing the variable to be smuggled out of the house. Even the skill's developer explained in RuneScape history book that he missed something, but couldn't specify what. Now obviously, the bug can't be abused today. We're going to be talking more about that But to get a true understanding of the Greater involvement, I made a last attempt to find of the bug by messaging upload manager Mod As a Jagex employee since 2008, better than Easty. As an upload manager, he's been in charge implementing all code involving hotfixes and new updates since 2010. Next to this, he's had a pretty big interest keeping in touch with RuneScape's bug abuse and learning the ways of how to break the both internally, but also externally. Some might remember him from the rotten potato where Easty was shown to be in contact with old bug abuse communities. If anyone at Jagex would be able to look up and find the bug - it'd be him. But, even Easty couldn't say for sure. The Construction code has changed a lot over and the closest we can get to the original is from August 2007 - being the same copy used to bring back Old School. Already at that point had Jagex made several again. But Easty could, after reviewing the 2007 make a guess at what happened in June of 2006. Hold on for this, because we're getting When standing in the Greater Magic Cage players inside. If the player chooses to drop them down to an animation plays where the player is falling. As we know, Cursed You expelled everyone from whilst our known PKers were in the cage and the Swedish user did explain the cage process of 'teleporting' him when he was suggesting the animation had been activated Cursed You hit the emergency brakes. Based on how the code worked at the time, where two actions happen in the opposite order Assuming Cursed You expelled everyone in the game tick as a different player sent the trapped players to the dungeons, the game prioritises action activated by the player with the highest Player Identification Number, or PID for short. In 2006, the number each player had depended long you had been online on a server. The longer you stayed online, the higher the And obviously, Cursed You had been online longer than most of his party guests making his action of expelling the guests So when the hundreds of players, the other action was still queued up, and directly after they all had been kicked. Since getting dropped into the dungeon would the variable saying you're on the upper of a house disappears, and PvP mode becomes So, in summary, you have a variable that turns it if you're on the ground or upper floors a player owned house. This is supposed to be removed when you leave but the developer forgot about the Greater and now you have "open world PVP" turned stupidly specific circumstances. As long as you don't log out, hop worlds, Okay, enough on mechanics, As players start dropping, portal. Some people still have no idea what's going others know exactly what is going on. Some players run as fast as they can, they had brought to the prestigious party. Others are just deer in headlights, unfolding before them. A partyhat is quickly lost in the chaos to named Yeti 90, punching his victims to death with nothing but a pair of boxing Others are dying to mere shadows; masses. Some of the bug abusers likely teleport of this once-in-a-lifetime chance, smuggled out. Attending Player Moderators sound the alarm. the chatbox like a sword of light dispelling the dark, and beg those same abusers to stop before Others rush to the Player Moderator Forums a direct line with Jagex, hoping to get in before these random killings turn into a full-fledged Meanwhile, at Jagex HQ, Moderators Mat K, of the community management team this evening. Having been working for just over 6 hours it wasn't long until they could finally as their shift ended at 2am. But as the ones to deal with Player Moderators, they quickly notice the reports coming in their P-Mod emergency ticket system; all repeating the same warning about open Receiving reports of similar nature almost most who are false alarms, the three J-Mods on duty are sceptical. But nothing is normal in; it was worth checking out. Mod Mark R and Mod Murdoch jumps in-game, that the reports are entirely real. Trying to do what they can to remedy the situation, bank their items. Ironically, this just sends more players when they could have just logged out and But it was late at night, people were panicking, like this; and it was likely just as chaotic in the office While Jagex managed to get some of the abusers, all. You know how you can't log out of the game 10 seconds after combat? Turns out even Jagex couldn't get around requirement, and so if someone attacks a player, and then just attacks someone else within of their last kill... They just can't be logged out. Sure, the moment they stop, they'll be slammed but until then, they can go as long as they The Rimmington mass cascades into a system predators and prey, with those expelled with the attack buttons able to murder any player in the game and those without unable to attack back, only able to watch as their health ticks carrying. With two J-mods unable to do anything but the chaos unfold, those with items to lose run north to the hoping to deposit all their items before they're forcibly stripped of them. Some players are quick to escape, One of the bug abusers, Jonathizzle0, follows north to attack players attempting to get He gets no kills, and attempts his luck against Inside Cursed You's house, however, completely unaware of the chaos they've caused outside. They're just chilling and enjoying the afterglow However, a lot of the reports flooding from P-Mods in are name dropping him and his party, so a scrambling staff team decide to lock just in case he's somehow enabling the bug. A temporary ban to save countless of players' would be a worthwhile trade, after all. So Cursed You is issued a ban, he is forcibly from the game, and his house immediately closes with all of his friends forced outside into Players are dying, PMods are shouting, and couple JMods are there trying to save the To call it a reality check is themunderstatement Cursed You is informed about the chaos over and does a cheeky little bit of ban evasion by hopping on to his real world trading mule Hidden P Hat, to check out the situation for Durial321, still in Rimmington, has spent minutes observing rather than abusing the Though we know he attacked somebody in the discovered the variable still applied to him, it's likely he paused once the J-mods showed They clearly didn't know about him just otherwise Durial would've been just another in the Rimmington carnage. But Brian had always been a PKer. It's the whole reason he played the game. And he'd been given the ability to attack There was no way he was ever going to resist His teamspeak friends, who were fully up-to-date of Durial himself, all encouraged him to keep going. But they had to be smart about it, He splits off from the crowd, bank but he's not here to deposit his valuables, While running with the fleeing masses, P6 emx60, to wait by the Falador bank, By this time, Jonahizzle0 has also made his to the Falador east bank, still attacking players in the area. After finally getting a kill, he is attacked different player who also has the PvP variable still applied, Runescapego1, who is much better Jona teleports off to escape, simultaneously As Durial arrives in the bank, Runescapego1 to protect the bystanding players from future Little does he realise the largest predator all is just a few squares away, getting ready to seize the moment all of his While most people were still attacking random in Rimmington, Durial and his encouraging were ready to abuse this bug to its fullest He knew the consequences. He knew he wouldn't make it out of this But he knew this was his chance to go down He heads out of the bank and enters a trade waiting friend. What items did he trade, you ask? ...Well, we're not sure. There's no way to know what was in his inventory. It's a pretty safe bet to assume that Durial some of his most valuable items, fully expecting an incoming ban for his upcoming actions. But with both of them ending the trade with "thanks", it was time to make history. Brian and his Teamspeak friends had laid an While players had started to reach Falador items, no-one had reached the neighbouring So, taking a leisurely stroll, Durial made the once-named Ghost Town. If he'd tried to teleport with an Amulet he'd have lost his PVP variable - something he didn't know about, but avoided If he'd tried to world hop, in an attempt busy hotspots of world 2, he'd have also There were many opportunities during the night Durial could have easily come to an early and he just happened to avoid them all. And so, Durial arrived in Edgeville with the variable still primed. The unsuspecting players in Edgeville thought people go there all the time, after all. No one could have expected that it was going Ghost Town once more. With the element of surprise on his side, players, targeting those bearing the most expensive PKers returning from the Wilderness with hard-won alchers barely paying attention to the game tore through their giant piles of items, and displaying their obscene wealth through equipped As Durial's spree is going on, his friends are calling people over to Edgeville for Durial One of the unfortunate victims answering the a wealthy player carrying his beloved green Just second after he steps foot inside Edgeville, seeing the expensive paper hat appear on the before him - and equips the infamous Green Partyhat that he'd wear as his spree As the kills racked up, players started crowding as the killings continued. Around this point, Durial removed both a white yellow party hat from their previous owners. However, he was actually unable to pick up for himself, as the greedy onlookers seized opportunity to grab what they could, descending partyhats and high level gear like the vultures that they were. Durial knew a ban was incoming, be. It was a bloodlust driven entirely by an adrenaline a lust for chaos. As fearful players fled Edgeville, away and, eager to hunt down the rich and wealthy While Durial has already torn up Edgeville is making their way to Falador from the north, players in Rimmington finally heed the advice JMods and make their way to Falador to bank having seen all the bug abusers in the area disappear and believing the glitch to finally Even Mod Mark R and Mod Murdoch fall for this seeing a peaceful Rimmington, and believing Rather than follow the players to Falador, believing their job to be done. Fresh blood runs to Falador from the south, safety. They slam into the refugees from Edgeville, Rimmington may have found peace, but that's the chaos had all gone north. And with a mass amount of targets congregating Falador Square, and Durial descending from the stage is set for the greatest disaster has ever seen. Anticipating what comes next, some bystanders fire up their recording software, And with players starting to drop like flies, madness. But those pale in comparison to the hundreds thousands of eyes that would descend on the videos of the event over the years to come. Some of the most infamous RuneScape footage has ever been uploaded to YouTube. For five long minutes, the rampage razes PMods beg players to get away and bank their but people are enthralled by the history in and the pleas go unheard. Friends message friends to come see, more and more people descend on Falador to Within the last hour, the 1200 players on had reached its max capacity of 2000 with several more queuing up to get in. Mere hours earlier, this had been Cursed You's It was now entirely Durial's, with a ferocious of people following him around an unhinged collection of people egging him asking him to kill them, or chanting "Dur After building up this army of followers, to head back to Edgeville - to take down the players who thought they'd managed to evade With impending doom returning to the edge the wilderness, PMods continue to beg for help on the forums. Someone, anyone at Jagex - we need you. Well, they did have Jagex at the scene - further than Rimmington, Mod Murdoch logged If he could force Durial from the game, but Durial was unbannable as long as he stayed And high on the bloodlust of the bug, he wasn't enough time pass between kills to leave combat with a pool of targets around him, immediately kill someone else? So, Murdoch went for the second best thing that is, asking Durial as kindly as possible please and thank you. If J-mod powers weren't going to save the maybe words would. Unsurprisingly, this didn't stop Durial. However, Murdoch was hot on Durial's trail: There was no way he could keep up the perfect And, sure enough - Durial slipped up. Ghjjf, who just so happened to be the leader Cursed You's clan DI, became Durial's barely surviving next to Barbarian Village. As Durial heads dead north to Edgeville on too much time passes before he manages to 10 seconds are quickly gone. Mod Murdoch slams the disconnect button the almighty train coming to an immediate Durial hadn't been banned, however, only Mod Murdoch were probably more concerned about before doing anything more complicated. Durial immediately logs back in, logout, his killing spree is done for good. Durial's not stupid - he knows his time So, with his last moments in Gielinor, to his longtime friend - VooDooLegion. With his Harlequin prize in the hands of his disintegrating into nothing as he is ban applied to his account. After about an hour of stress, fear and death, an end. The funny thing is, Durial had managed to he ran to a different town entirely to begin By the time the reports of Durials rampage made it to Jagex, the killings in Rimmington and southern Falador had already lasted for The largest predator might've been taken but who knows how many other killers were running around in the game? Who knows what events haven't reached And who knows if it's not all about to happen the bug was still in the game. This was only the start of a very long night To say night shift were struggling was an One of the biggest sources of stress was to with escalation - with no developers in the office overnight, there was no-one on hand Community Management certainly couldn't Do they hope for the best, cross their fingers with more offenders appearing, and let it fixed in the morning? Or do they nip it in the bud here and now? Well, by the time the British clocks got closer 2am and the end of their shift, the call was They needed backup. Just two weeks prior, Andrew Gower had been person in the system who had permission to add hotfixes to address issues like this but, by sheer coincidence, Andrew had recently employee: System Administrator Mod Slake. Slake had seized the opportunity with both and openly admitted that he would be more than willing to come in the moment an emergency Anyway, faced with his first emergency, in the middle of the night. Okay, that's a little mean to the guy and willing to do his part in stopping the But while he had the permissions to deploy he didn't really have the technical knowhow confidently stop the glitch without breaking developer's insight. Stirred at 2am, a tired Andrew Gower was bombarded information about what had been happening Unprecedented problems. Open-world PVP. They needed someone at the office to come and fix it immediately. Andrew, annoyed to be stirred by the very appointed to avoid this sort of thing, told them to deal with it themselves, developer who had agreed to do emergency callouts. The man, the myth, the legend: Mod Ash. Ash, not recognising the voice, was confused but agreed to come in regardless. Slake raced to Ash's house, picked up the and beelined to the office. With the right mind on the task, bug. While they weren't sure how the PVP status smuggled out of the house, they knew it was the rogue variable that had caused the massacre. It was a bug that had existed since the release it until this perfect storm. With the variable identified, it was easy Ash's hacky middle-of-the-night solution temporarily disable PVP in the entire game, meaning nobody could attack each other inside back on. He also thought to make the game just stop house PVP variable completely, effectively for any players who still had it active. Without knowing how the variable was smuggled they simply didn't know if this was PoH-exclusive, or if a player could do it all again by using With that done, they could fix this more elegantly Ash just needed to make a quick check that weren't any glaring problems in his code, to ensure that it wouldn't cause a second All in all, Slake and Ash's work took them in the region of 2 hours - with the hotfix deployed roughly around 4am UK time. As the party had started just after midnight, of the house party to the termination of the It had been a night of terror, a night of a night of murder with countless bloodshed. But as Ash and Slake relaxed in their chairs enjoy a well deserved rest. Because despite all the things the night had the night was finally over. Survivors of the massacre share their testimonies hours. Long threads tell the tale of the terrors calling it the "Doomsday Massacre" due coincidental date of 6/6/6. The rants forums are flooded by angry players capitalise on the opportunity, and also demand anything some of them weren't online for it at all. Screenshots circulate the forums. DI member Sopp4, also known as S Y N I, just hours after it ended - although YouTube so most people preferred to share the file's Durial himself replied to posts on RuneScape in later years known as the Zybez forums, explaining some of his perspective of the His appearance on such a popular forum made with him. Players started to reach out, wanting their but Durial was in no position to return them if he wanted to. However, in a cruel twist of fate, later, asking for his green partyhat back on a different only for VooDooLegion to refuse, sever all ties with Durial, and end their online game. The legendary green partyhat was sold just few hours later, shamelessly swapped for a yellow partyhat and a santa hat; and gifting the santa hat to a friend he Learning of the legendary figure at the heart called Therat got in touch with Durial the Massacre had ended. Requesting an interview, with the transcript of their conversation in a tip.it forum thread titled The Falador (or "The Falidore Massacre" to be exact) This was the first time the event was referred by this name, and due to the heavy traffic the site would see over the next few days, and the one that has stuck through all these years. Emerging from the ashes, 3 hours after the was Cursed You. Andrew Gower had eventually gotten up to check on what was going on, noticed that Cursed You wasn't maliciously to keep him banned, so they let their to continue his RuneScape adventures. This didn't sit right with some of the staff, to do with the bug, could see a range of with suspicious activity in the But nothing enough to issue a ban; forward. The bug hadn't been properly fixed yet, but it was now close to the start of the workday the UK, and all hands were on deck once more. It's an odd morning for the staff as they're by the garbage fire that started blazing overnight. The community outrage is at an all time high, patchwork fix, and they all slept through one of the most events in RuneScape history. With Jagex being made up mostly of young developers it's an unusual and exciting day for them. They've never seen anything like this before. Regardless, they get to work on properly fixing Andrew Gower, upset that such an event happened not partaking in safer coding practices. During this conversation, he realises that programming language, RuneScript, doesn't really have an easy way to check is in a specific location or not. Sure, there are some hacky ways around it, variables for house PvP which led to the bug So, Andrew just goes away and quickly codes an entirely new system for the game to fix With the new code, it's now possible to instance a player is in alongside what coordinates they're standing on, and so the team ensures all variables which enable PVP also check the player is standing in the intended place. Wilderness PVP only works in the Wilderness. House PVP only works in a House. You get the picture; even if you somehow they wouldn't do anything since you There would never be a disaster of this Additional fixes have been made over the truly cannot happen. Though unrelated to the Massacre, to now be in a random order rather than meaning bug abusers can no longer rely on Other bugs related to the PoH and variables which all in all creates a stack of safety before you even touch the ground when you leave a player owned house. Jagex has basically built a fortress identify for so many years. Having proved himself with his eleventh hour Mod Slake gives Mod Ash special permissions deploy hotfixes to the game without to push it through for him. While Mod Ash tends to get a lot of the credit Slake was equally important in saving the After all, Slake was the admin on call, and the office, and the one who pushed the hotfix through. Without him, there was nothing Ash could As a last, but just as important, major change; busy smacking down people in PvP. As for the people, Paul Gower took to the players. Apologising profusely to all of them, there nothing they could do for the victims. The system wasn't able to perform a rollback state just before the killings, issue item refunds. As Jagex did not keep a backup of that sort and legitimate requests were being drowned by a sea of people trying to get free stuff, Imagine permanently losing your best gear not getting it back solely because some kids were trying to scam the system in wake of I know I'd be upset. The discussions on the days following the saw people go back and forth between supporting and despising Durial. Some players felt a rollback was the right with his ban being reversed alongside it. I mean, who could resist such a tempting glitch? Everyone would go around and kill as many as they could if given the chance, right? Others thought the ban was justified given had exploited one of the most serious bugs the game had ever seen, and knowingly went murdering people to steal their expensive While Durial was permanently gone from the Cursed You was back in business, and enjoyed a reasonable status as an online following the massacre. Despite not taking part in it at all, and everyone knew him. However, he was far from a golden child, later in July 2006, for reasons unrelated to the Even in the evidence report you can see a calling him a legend. Must have been a nice ego boost for the 16 Pride comes before the fall, however, only two months passed after that fateful before Cursed You pushed things too far Or, rather I should say "Cursed Y0u", While Lincoln was at school, Josh started about real world trading on the account, while also attempting to sell gold. The ensuing report alerted Jagex to Cursed long and shady history on the topic, and so the account was permanently banned real world trading on August 25th 2006. Despite being banned, Cursed You still stood ground that what he did on his account was claiming what ultimately nailed his coffin hijacker. With both Lincoln and Brian removed from the the story of the stars of the Falador Massacre to a swift close. Okay, that's not quite true that didn't stop Brian from playing RuneScape. Durial321 was never to be let back into the with Andrew Gower even leaving a note on the in the internal system saying it should never one of the only 4 known account notes he ever in the system during his 10 year tenure at But even if Durial was gone, Brian did have Gifted "Azn Boi 763" from a friend, into the game without having to start th Jagex did also add a note to this account, but decided to let it slide since he wasn't I mean, other than ban evasion and account but hey, who's counting. His new account wasn't a well-kept secret sharing the username on a fansite he made Getting the status as an iconic player in world's largest MMO at age 16 must've awfully exciting for Brian. He continued to be a part of 3v0luti0n up February 2008, when he attempted to join a new clan of dastardly villains and terrifying Reign of Terror. Durial didn't last much longer, however, 2009; and has not been an active player ever since... As far as we know. As for Jagex, they tried their best to avoid After all, the incident was essentially a it was a failing on their end, and to give credence would just be glorifying rule breaking, and encouraging future offenders. But time heals all wounds, and those personally lives, either rebuilding their accounts or Avoiding the topic was the "official" right up until RuneFest 2014, at which point Jagex decided to start talking it in preparation for the RuneScape Documentary. It was still something of an awkward topic,n With the rise of mass shootings over the years, they had to make sure they never glorified Staff members who had dealt with never found Falador Massacre jokes to be funny, community members. But still - it's one of the most significant People who've never touched the game have Whether you like it or not, in the middle of its golden years. In 2016, on the 10 year anniversary, the incident by adding an ingame event that followed by a giant Durial321 miniboss that could fight together. Even oldschool held an anniversary event, where players could engage in open PvP in without it affecting their account on the Jagex even added a new song - Massacre - bearing a striking resemblance to Nightwish's but in the osrs soundfont. As Planet Hell was the background song for massacre, many players associate it with the event, the youtube upload of the song are about RuneScape. Jagex also outsourced a gaming company titled the Falador Massacre. Described as a top-down view of Falador you'd have 3 minutes playing as Durial321 NPCs posing as players would pop in awarding a variety of points depending on Unfortunately, Facebook wasn't too fond a game holding the word 'Massacre' - and thus was rejected and never released. In the years after Durial left the game, likely as a result of one of the many leaks allowing imposters to log on and pretend that This tricked various content creators into since been taken down. Many streamers have also claimed that they but these were all fakers trying to use the Believe it or not, Cursed You also eventually sneaking back into RuneScape under the See, two "S"s, it's totally a different I bet the second S stands for secret. Anyway, he streamed consistently for about uploading several youtube videos during this releasing some never-before-seen screenshots He got in touch with Jagex moderators and content creators, sharing his stories before fading away once more - joining Brian outside of online gaming. Wherever the two of them may be now, they leave behind a legacy that will forever gaming history, and all of the players Thank you all so, so much for watching most famous bug of all time. It's kind of funny thinking that, even after bug that caused the Massacre. They only added workarounds to stop it happening Far down in the code, that bug is still there, RuneScape for the rest of its life. If that isn't a poetic metaphor for the of the Massacre, I don't know what is. Anyway, I really hope you've all enjoyed Until next time, my name is Will Miss It,