All right, where your job is literally punching everyone you meet in the face. It's Fight Master. You ready for this? Whachaw. [laughs] I love that you can get special prizes by knocking people out far enough. Look at the character. Now, we have to knock this man down the exit path, out of the building, [laughs] All righty. Let's go ahead and get Now, there's a few other attacks. We can get a birthday cake All right, It's a home run. All right. Oh, he's through the door oh that's -. it actually looks criminal. Almost felonious behavior Also, with two frames worth of motions. He's like, &quot;Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes.&quot; [slot machine bell] More money. I had no idea that the very first person that we'd have to knock out I'm ready for it. The last one, the birthday cake. High-speed pastry. [gasps] Go. [laughs] [siren] He's in the dumpster. Yes. From the three-point line. Let's get ready to rumble. Oh, we even have an announcer. Now we have a fist, a folding chair, I love that his promoter Oh, his promoter I will mention this man but we'll see how strong he is. The very first punch into traffic because why wouldn't you put the boxing Oh, Yes. Big upgrades. A lot of money upgrades. The folding chair is all buffed up. Grate your teeth because you're about to eat it like a subway sandwich. [laughs] Right on the top of the car-- yes. [laughs] Man, the crowd's really getting into this. All right, and I'm going to go as far This feels like cheating It's the automated boxing glove. Beggars can't be choosers. A whack. [gasps] That was a low shot. I'm pretty sure I hit-- [gasps] that lady just got decked. She had a child too. There was a stroller. Where did the child go? He got sent into the ozone. I can't believe All right. How about 15? Let's go 15 and even more money bonuses. What do I want to finish this with? The chair. All right. and luckily his fall was stopped Why am I punching a Viking? I'm punching a Viking in Valhalla. This might not be Valhalla. This might just be Florida [music] Passive difference. You could hit him with a mackerel? [laughs] Okay, I guess we're starting This isn't a punch though. This is more like a slash. [laughs] Get ready. I'm going straight for 21. Straight for 21, My mackerel is ready. Are you? [gasps] [snickers] Okay, mackerel OP. Now he's just passed the halfway point, so we have quite a bit further to go here. We're going to have to crank The hammer of Thor beckons. Young Viking, you must answer the call-- [laughs] [bell rings] Fortunately, otherwise, he would've missed the target. Great. I'm going to kick Daniel's son Starting off with the chop. [bone cracks] Did I just chop his ankle? It looked like I chopped him in the ankle. You'll notice his other ankle is missing. I chopped his ankle Now we can fix that, can't we? Crank this up to 31. Been stretching my foot out all morning. Now I'm ready for the kick well, it was a brown picket fence, Okay. Across the Floridian That's a good landing, I got to say. Now his right leg but other than that, a good landing. I love how the characters that they've put [laughs] They couldn't even take Bruce Lee always knew that the best way to a man's heart is through a nunchaku. That nunchaku I'm pretty sure from the rest of his body. That's okay though. We're almost there. I think one more kick We can put this up to-- I don't know. How about 37? Now we can probably go For the final hit, we're going to chop it's like an Achilles tendon. You know what I mean? He didn't get there. Oh, he's stuck inside of a bench. I can't see the character. Oh, never mind. I can barely see one of his limbs. Guess we'll try the kick then. The kick is to the face. The chop is to the ankle, Man. We need serious upgrades to have this dude get the momentum to hit the target. Although 45, that's got to be the winner. Nunchaku, last time. Now he will never taste Are you kidding me? Come on. Who put this rock here? Oh, the rock was worth an extra 10 grand All righty. You know what? Fine. We'll go straight to 50. Let this happen. I have plenty more people that I need yes, all through the ages. Destiny. Oh, look at that. He didn't even drown in the one little puddle Oh my God. I am punching a knight. Oh, I'm sorry. I am stabbing a night. They just called There's a dragon. Oh, I get my own dragon. All right Sir Yeetington, let's see how you do against the stab Oh, he's wearing a helmet. Good for him. Yes, he's fine. Do I have to put him straight across the moat I guess it's not so much a drawbridge Getting expensive for these upgrades where I have to to make this work. I feel like the shield bash is a downgrade considering we were attacking [gasps] Oh, wow and he broke the moat. Now no one's following to pick Dragon time. He's on fire through the door. He was doing a full split for a while. Why is there just a random Was the war over 30 years ago? This dude is super bored, He's like, &quot;Well I'm a knight, and now there's no one to fight Break your darkness upon my shield. Oh yes. Oh, I love the lines Break your darkness upon my shield. Sword. I got some good distance here. We're going to need a lot of upgrades, Now things are starting to get tougher. What we're going to do is upgrade the money The dragon is going to drown him to death. Never really saw a dragon fight like that. Victory shall be ours. Where did these lines There we go, He almost took down his brethren. He's still getting extra money too. That's interesting. It's a bubble well. Big money. Now we can finally get We'll go over here There goes the helmet. I don't even know why he's wearing it, Now he's laying at the feet of the dragon. I'm pretty sure the dragon is in fact Not constantly because the dragon I'm not sure. Big distance. Big distance. Off the bell. Yes. I am out of manner. We didn't get it yet but I really wanted Say I am out of manner? Big distance, through the bell. I can't get through the area I either have to go 66, both of those, so now that should be the level This is beautiful. Through the well. The well stopped him. Oh, the well's 2 feet deep. The well isn't doing anything. I thought the well would-- Why did you attack the well? The well is feeding the innocent, You know what I mean. but we don't want to fly too far He got it. [laughs] Oh yes capoeira, Capoeir-- whatever. We're starting off with a classic foot. Didn't really look It just looked Hey, Google, Capoeira. Capoeira. All right, if Google says it, Big upgrades. Big upgrades. Get ready for the pain. That looked like the last kick. He ricochets off the cars. Is that an entire Ferris wheel down there? Oh, that's awesome. Big money. That's a long board. Okay. All right. The last option's a gun. It's just a gun. Why? Oh well, oh, look at this. You can buff up the gun. I had no idea. Can you do that to all the attacks?It Big money. Okay. What happens Does he not really go anywhere? Oh, wow. You lose all your power. Big kick. Through the sign, off the hillside, Oh, he's going to lay This girl is really short, Well now that I know how to get hold on here. [laughs] Yes. Oh, the carousel. There is no way this dude This guy's like 10 foot tall. Okay, now we're starting to get big money. Big money. Big money. Through the sign. Okay. Straight into the carousel, Big bounce off of the dockside Capoeira kick. Google allows it. The only problem so if you don't get the bounce, We're going to have to I'm going to go to 90. Go to 90, use this kick here. There it is. Maxed out. That should be perfect. Goal. 700,000 coins. What is this? Is this an eating or what is happening back here? Oh, it's a slap competition. Whose hand was that? Was that my hand? I'm just a carbon copy of this guy. All right. Levels, money. More money, more levels. I need you to tell me If when I hit you it feels of pennies then it possibly is. How did that feel? Did it tastes like it was Teflon coated? Oh, he got hit by a car. Well, now he can't answer You can't stop the power of rock. Oh. Oh. It's sticking in him. The sword was inside of his body. Is this guy snoring or is he crying? I really don't know. See, every once in a while he's like, Load it up, load it up. Big height. Got to bounce up the stairs though. Luckily, this bag of garbage was there to blunt the force of the impact. All right, we're almost at level 100. I'm going to try a pan here. I feel like the pan, you get some really good reverberation I was wrong. Slap. I think that my slap gets oh my God, I think that my slap because it really doesn't do very much. Right, I've got everything above 100 now, we're going to go guitar for this. Wait for the full increase. Big guitar hit through the flash There's a concert going on up here. Oh, it's an actress. Jerry Bruckheimer is up there. He's like, &quot;Okay, now I want you to act as if though you just got hit She's like, &quot;What's my inspiration?&quot; It's the 600 pound man Oh, I missed her. Minecraft. Well, Dollar Store Minecraft. You know how there's Minecraft Steve? This is the discount version It's Minecraft Steeb, right? Minecraft Steeb. Oh, just like in Minecraft, but the tree itself doesn't fall. Then you get the sword All right, sword's coming at you. If you catch it with your teeth, Oh, and the parts That's interesting. You get a lot of money Wow. Diamond pickaxe. One of the most powerful items in gaming. You've got to go you have to break down the Minecraft gate. Although, I guess it's not Minecraft. This is some stupid off-brand version, something like Yeetcraft or something. I'm taking out more and more tree. What is with these sound effects? One million coins. All right, Minecraft Steeb, get ready. We're winding up. [laughs] He gets money for each thing he falls and hits as he takes out all the sand. Oh, yes, I can't believe I've got an infinite amount of pickaxes so we're going to be doing this all day. I've finally broken Go in for distance. Oh, there was an extra tree there. He just ping-ponged There we go. Through the house. Beautiful. Now I have to go into the side of a rock. We're 61% through so we are making Oh, yes. Oh, we have to get the diamonds. [laughs] Oh, this is magical. More bonus. The power of the sun-- bounce. Good bounce through the diamonds. Now are the diamonds worth a lot? They're okay. This guy is upgraded. There we go. Yes. Through the target Now I have to ninja a ninja. Well, I'm kicking a ninja or maybe and then we have the sword We're going to do the kick. That was a very impressive kick, Now, fortunately, I don't know why only he does. I never really knew that only ninjas possessed skeletons in all of humankind. Oh, his skeleton is worth a lot of money. Yes, and then we'll buff these up. By the power of Gray [?] That was the weakest sword swing. Oh, the target is in mid-air. Imagine if you had a superpower and your superpower Oh, you get to see him so you really did seize him out, kind of. Ow, I just got run Oh, now traffic stops Get ready. Now, obviously, that's interesting. I'm going to go ahead Now his leg looked broken He's totally fine. This is really weird. You can buy a spider to punch. I don't really - but [laughs] why? Why am I attacking this poor spider? Does he give me Oh, my God. Oh, pretty glad I bought the spider now. Yes. I got to slash way lower All right, spider, listen, Okay? Big distance. That's the kind of distance I like to see, Big bounce. Stopped by the car. Oh. Oh, that's worth the money. Oh, that's worth big money. You know what? We're doing this. Oh, now all I have to do is do that exact and I should get amazing money twice. In fact, he may have hit and he still got hit by the car twice. Oh yes. Almost 2 mil. The last object definitely hits harder than the other objects that come before it and you continue to get stacked with money when the spider hits the ground. You can see now I'm at 2.6 million. Now that I'm getting crazy money, We'll bring this up and still not high enough [laughs] For some reason, and put it in the garbage bin almost. There's a man and a woman 3 million. Oh, evil spider. I never knew that you were worth Now I will say, the whole point is to be attacking the ninja back I want to win with the ninja. Oh, he was right there. Plus he has a skeleton. All right. Now, just get hit by a car. I know it sounds hit by this car over here You did not get hit by the car. You had one job. He still picked up I know you can do this ninja. You've got plenty oh, off the helicopter. Did that count? I want to know if that counted. He's still sliding. Okay. He's up. Did it count? I don't think it counted. It didn't count. Okay. What we're going to do is we're going to put and then we have to pull All right. Ow. Was my skeleton coming out of my arm? I'm pretty sure my skeleton Now that's pretty close. That was almost maxing it out, Oh, it's money. Oh, it's right there. Are you kidding me? Although he did do a fantastic double Got to be perfect. Got to be perfect. I think that may have been too much. Am I going to hit No, it counted. It totally counted. Yes, mission complete. We have a winner. Well, I went through life fixing Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed Till next time, stay foxy, much love.