Every epic journey begins with the first unforgettable journey along the Pan-American North America to the southernmost reaches of conquer that incredible feat, we need to reach we set out from our home on Vancouver Island Northwest Territories. Over the course of landscapes, exploring hidden corners of two territories and even crossing into Alaska. It's 7:30 in the morning in Port Hardy and the boat that will ferry us and our Can we close 'er up for the next 16 The Northern Expedition is responsible for Rupert terminals and travels 274 nautical miles Inside Passage, a long and narrow waterway that the coast. At times, the passage narrows As we travel north, we pass a at which point BC Ferries does a short educating passengers on the various [First Along with us on this sailing were Haida Gwaii. When we left booking the ferry list. When we received confirmation that very same ferry as my parents. Having We both relished the opportunity to witness British Columbia. BC is a massive and for those Americans watching, Something that struck us both as we traveled for probably the first time, were untouched by logging. As British Columbians, think nothing of it...the reverse of Possibly the best portion of the voyage is from Hartley Bay to Marrack Island. if you hit it at sunset, the It's surprising how quickly 16 hours will go but after this trip, I think I know all I need to. We were feeling cooped up and glad Arriving at 12am in Prince Rupert, we made quick The next morning, we bid my parents We traveled inland along the Skeena River, a massive fresh-water river that It didn't take long for us to sniff out Landslide warning. The good man, scoping our camp spots. The fact that we are now up north is not just this place that is indescribable, and one Welcome to bug land! Meg is really struggling right now. We both because the no-see-ums can apparently as soon as you feel them and you know they're can't get away from it. Don't film Our first spot was only a one-night morning towards what we were really after - and roughly how to get there. And it would We made a short stop in the town of before once again turning off Hwy 16 onto gravel. First air-down. 30 PSI split, 25 on the front, 30 on the back, because we want I don't know if we can see here, but the bug bite covered, and they're not even mosquitoes. It was Our route along the Copper Mountain and, soon, we were seeing snow-capped We going for a cold plunge? I can agree to that. Oh my gosh, This is really cold! Cheers! Cheers! So what have we got here, Love? We've shredded tofu. But the wrong plates. Yeah, because we don't have bowls big enough to need after skipping lunch. Okay that makes The next morning as we pressed into the mountains, I'll reiterate the fact that we know to get there. I mapped the route on GPS but, I knew of two previous YouTubers that had done Chrome, of Vancity Vanlife, attempted the track Forest drove the trail from the other direction. I that all the snow had melted and someone My gosh, that is absolutely Well, we are currently parked beside a going to fill up our water cuz, when you get you fill up! I'll let you guys in on a And the worst joke of the day goes to ... Alex Jackson, thank you very Kokanee in its purest form. So, I made some natural bug spray alcohol, and it seems to be working pretty well. And it smells really good, so one mosquito bite in this mosquito-infested place. It's the Megan bug-bite chronicles! Oh yeah, this thing, this As we progressed, the trail became increasingly At this point, our eyes were I couldn't believe that I was accessing Oh, it's so good to be back in BC! However, my exuberance was short-lived and we soon came up against our first real At this point, we were so far in and, from we had a chance. So, as the saying Turns out with a bit of momentum, good you can actually make it up a lot. We climbed that Well, this is a different story. I'm going incline is because this is right at the Well, it appears as if this is kind I think if I make it up that steep should be relatively straightforward. As I hiked back down to the van, I did my best to a rim or cause further issues. After a better a line I could take. If I could get past that, I backed up to get a little bit Unfortunately, I didn't quite have enough At some point I'd need to make a choice have enough grab to get us up and over the There it is, the big rock I needed to pass. If I can feel the momentum bleed away. but the van continues to pull up the hill. You sweatin? Well, I tell you what. When you a V8 engine and a whole bunch of traction, that's what you get right there, She just cruised on up. I know. When you the back tires spit out so many huge rocks. Yeah. great. I'm very thankful for that. Woo, now Oddly enough, this is the easy locker, short wheelbase and sharp turning radius, short and small applications of throttle had By nature, I'm what you call seemingly, when I'm on the trail, I "we're almost there" and "we have a short I was right, but distance had nothing do with it. Gorgeous, gorgeous. Few branches. Oh my gosh! Oh my gosh! Someone needs to come through This is fun! Is it? This is fun! Bit of There were a small number of small rock not to mention the tight tree tunnels and peel the paint right off the body of the van. Not having fun anymore. This And, at last, we arrived at the final boss. A in the middle of the road. It was clear that some it through, but with our width and height, This is some type two fun ... See if we can winch this puppy out of the way. It's going to come off. Course, this was the plan. On all my pick-ups, the first mod I never thought I'd be rock crawling with of putting protection over the rockers. You might be stuck on your passenger side. I don't know. You're going right for that spiky really don't want to bust it up. Betty's got a little bit of cancer The back swing-out is still open, eh. Oops, it held. Alright, it's off-road ready. 6 inches. You got room. Straighten out. Okay, wheels this way. Alright, new development. We've gone approximately and now we're going to try and winch this huge Probably good. Good now, hey? Alright. Yay ... that was just one less Two straps down. Two straps down, and What we gained from this experience was, but also a sense of accomplishment, memory that will last us a lifetime. After six hours on the trail, there was nothing else to do but crack a beer and Well, this is our spot for the night. Over here. But, our adventure Well, we got a pretty significant water crossing ahead of us. Looks pretty Wait, do you want to say that again Meg? This campsite makes a very good case for us One day and two nights is all we've allowed paradise. The weather has rolled in, draping stillness has descended on the valley. The exhausted and a little strung out, so breathing in quiet as possible was high on our list of things us has come by reports from side-by-side drivers involves a water crossing and supposedly another deep. It seems to us as though we've likely which we're thankful for because we're not sure reports have come from people in four-wheel is an important point to account for when you're twice as challenging. With all that being said, First up, possibly the deepest water Water crossing crossed, it's this time, it's noticeably narrower than before. This narrow section of tree tunnel as high as our door, so about 20 inches deep. Well, we are at our next obstacle. I was warned their side-by-sides and they said once the dirt because apparently it's scary. Well, narrowish and there's a pretty good drop-off not really any other option. We have to come area right down there and the rest of it to, you know, &quot;when in doubt, throttle out.&quot; section of trail. Alders had grown down the hill to be certain I wasn't distracted by branches is pretty high consequence. If something While I took care of the pruning, Meg cleared possible. With rocks and tree limbs out but put the pedal to the metal, and At this point, what little momentum I quickly bleeding away, but the van was still due to the fact that we I really need to balance my approach Oh Betty, what a beast! Well, we made it. Don't know what kind of damage know, she like, it still feels good up here. back there. Okay well, upwards and onwards. Uh, Okay, let's get in the van. That mosquito sacrifice! A few minutes later, we this wouldn't be much of a problem but, for us, I immediately start looking for winch points make it out of this trail is growing this is definitely a problem. Should we Invigorated. Lift with your legs. Go for it. You're gonna go for it? This incline, hmm. Just be ready to Betty is not going to like this. After a few more minutes of looking one that will put me closer to a good But apparently I won't need We're nuts. Everybody on the Internet is just &quot;What is wrong with this guy?&quot; Something serious! go find the easy sailing that we've been looking Way to go Babe! Na, you way to go, you're such a good sport and you're I love it. I love you. I love you. Yeah, so much for easy street. My heart worse. Everyone that we talked to that came &quot;Oh yeah, it's easy that way out and Alex just put his hands up, like in an going to be able to get up this next bit. I can't though because going back is like way sooo yeah, I love off-roading. Well, after a bit is probably going to be the most challenging and maybe. But again, it just everything choice. So we're going to go for it and I'll tell you this with utmost honesty, every I have looked at and wondered if us around. I am not exaggerating our a two-wheel drive van as heavy as ours Go Betty, go Betty, go! She just cruises up, eh? Ugh, oh my gosh! Oh, I'm sorry Betty, that in the trail, we came across the deepest water we've forded and it was quite deep. So that Ooooh .. We, uh, we went through Betty's The rest of the trail out was relatively direction smiled and waved and I'm sure wondered not knowing of course we'd just done I think we made it. This looks just like a successfully driven the Telkwa Pass and come out I mean, I'm going to take stuff apart later, I'm We're going to go find a place to camp because us 2 hours and we're both exhausted already, We made it Babe! We did it. Excuse me, I'm trying to get a shot Having completed the Telkwa Pass is by no means having done it in a two-wheel drive van is the willingness and confidence to do something I'm trying to exercise. We believe in testing to be well prepared mentally and emotionally We're just getting started and we're certain Well, we have made it to the microwave dreary and cold up here. Meg is obviously late in the day and we have not had food yet. on the way up here we discovered that either our house battery. We did wake up this morning here with no solar then we're probably going morning. So we're going to head into Smithers to charge up our house battery and hopefully figure charger or an alternator but the more likely Adversity is something you experience every day small, it's always present. We've had our fair once again, we are about to find ourselves stuck Over the following days, we would meet up with much of the surrounding area as possible. As a place to settle down, we're always on the So this breakdown served as a welcome chance to Spaghetti. Basghetti? Basghetti. Got some basghetti .. Yeah? Yeah. Nice! Yeah it's going to Hello. I'm giving you high five. Alright. Ready to go? Yes. So, it's been a few days since we got with my friend Zach and Katie and their unfortunately. We've had a little bit I think possibly our charger failed. So we've in addition to that, this camera that I'm an issue. It won't turn off. So that's kind sent in to Canon to be repaired and because I was I went ahead and purchased another camera. So this be seeing from a Canon camera. So yeah, unforeseen That's a cool bird call. You going to try and catch it? Is it a wet feet day? Got a long ways to go. I made it guys. Way to go? I went on snow walking. You're like .. Look at those mountains. I know, amazing. What Yeah? Give us a whiff. After our time here, we're going to at every little tucked away camp spot. We'll stay here a night before heading out into So we camped here on this riverside spot last we're really finding that, up north, we're the early rise and late set of the sun, and the getting into the van. It's getting pretty brutal. of blood, our blood, because we kill mosquitoes our blood. That's gross. So yeah, the struggle's up to a lake called Blue Lake today. Hopefully, the cloud cover is pretty low right now. Just Well, okay. So we are both currently absolutely sweating and being absolutely eaten alive are bad right now. Apparently they kind time but I think we have a lot of riding which is not ideal. I don't know if you can There's a tree frog right there. ah, there he is. Where? Oh my gosh, you got guy ... Oh, he's a docile little me. I'm sorry. Did I scare you little angel? Look, let's bring him to the Him. What should we name him? Alright, here Mosquito massacre aside, trudging our way into This region is right on the boundary of the which means annual rainfall is considerably and vibrant colors of the coastal rainforest was a true sight to behold. We quickly found interspersed with fits of Well, we may be stuck in place for a while just waiting for things to happen. All you do to pass the time. We're incredibly blessed to and outdoor activity to keep our hearts and minds as you may know, the further you go We've all had those times in to go quite right. It's part of happens that we've been stuck in one of With an unexpected camera failure, followed by shipping of new items being delayed, Smithers for a considerably longer Life on the road has shown us time and staying positive, and making the best of Smithers graciously took us in, offering us While waiting, some fellow travelers from and their dog Nacho have traveled all the way from been in contact on the Internet prior and As we still have a few days to we're venturing out to camp alongside Babine A couple nights here allow us to get well and have a few laughs. As we're now directed to we meet up north will likely become familiar faces Having some familiar faces to reach out to on the need as a traveler. Even with the two of us, our travels with some human interaction Sitting around a fire, cooking food and eating most fundamental human needs, and it's Well, today is the day we have been waiting and our new camera has shown up, and the to Purolator now to get the last package finally. It's been a really great time here What did we just find? Eventually we found ourselves on the way into haven't done it already, requires both driver and catch glimpses of the towering mountains feel free to ice your aches and pains in any Directly adjacent to Stewart is the you enter the town, there is no border a little past the Salmon Glacier, up the We quickly passed through the little ghost ascending into the mountains. Suffice to say, the Salmon Glacier is an it has dwindled considerably from Welcome to my glacier! This is your glacier? Yes! When referencing pictures I have of this back then, the ice was considerably higher up Those photos were taken near the end of of the summer this year. It's a sad reality We eventually found our friends parked up and settled in for the night. Not long after arriving, Ms. Dorothee rolled into our camp and decided to stay. Well, today, we're gonna go and hike doing it with all the new friends. We've got Fluri yeah, it's going to be a fun little adventure up to the waterfall. Excited for it! You Bit cold! A bit cold, is it? Yeah. Here you go. I may or may not have just Oops! He got it! Really ran up that. Thanks Babe, you were so Oh, it's really cold down below! The first day complete, we gathered to eating with new friends, I couldn't help but locales that we would spend evenings eating views and experiences that lie ahead are the desire to run towards them. But time is instead attempt to slow it down, savoring each inevitably look back on these moments later on in The Salmon Glacier valley is still a mine already in place and a possible a collection of mine shafts were dug into the It's eerie in here. Back in 2017, I was able to drive to with the increased popularity of the the industrial owners have closed down access, so we were unable to explore. Although exploration we were allowed a quick glimpse of the Alright, tour guide Alex, let's go. Can you see it? It's amazing, lots of snow. So, we got one last little mission to and that is to go and find a snow cave that our More cold plunge opportunities! Holy moly, Babe! This is crazy! What the heck. Let's go inside! Okay. Well, although I really want to go inside, because I'm not going to, and also there's been pretty super advisable. I would rather not be one we're just gonna observe from here and, uh yeah, stay safe people, stay safe. I mean, the Should we just do the slip and slide into just dying of hypothermia, like, come on. Alright, it's another boot-ski Watch the old man hurt himself doing this. Extreme Alex. Adventure Way to go, Honey. That was a good slide ... My what does it look like? It's just wet, just a bit wet. Four nights atop a massive rock outcropping could afford on this trip. With the Salmon start making progress North. Our Swiss us for the northern section of the Stewart we often wonder if these fellow mountain variety of rock monolith. But really, we know Due to our long delay in Smithers, our Yukon is fast approaching, which means beside Eddontenajon Lake serves as a quick we'll make it past Dease Lake and Oh my gosh! Rainfall this year seems to be ample, activities is very good for the region. Lake Provincial Park, after a short us its warmth to take off the chilly I'm a new woman. I've had my bath. Got A few more hours of driving and we were yet again Well, right now we are just under the Yukon border and we found this little spot on the GPS image It'll do, it'll do, it'll do, Charlie. Well, our friends Christian, Andrea and do a little bit of work but we are ready But before we do that, let's just take a moment Places like this exist all throughout a back road and exploring a little bit, beautiful river spot. So yeah, ready to Eventually, we made it into ready to say goodbye to British Columbia yet. What have you done, Love? Tell us. night? Yeah baby. Burgers! If only we had Wowsers! There's some flavor crystal action on this pan, beef crystals. Beef crystals. Who's excited for burger time? Me! that's the good stuff! Welcome to the Yukon. Welcome There is a little town called Atlin in the for a lack of a better term, landlocked. On all other sides are massive mountains and one day call home continues, this remote little determine if it's for us is to make the hour So, into town we go. Immediate impressions? We'd like it here! Let's see about the hikes. Well, we're going to go up there. Okay, so the hikes are pretty good too. Sitting here atop this mountain looking over help but ask ourselves, could this be home for a few more years but this place possibly more Tell me, where are we? Warm springs. Atlin warm spring. We're hoping it's warm Oh, it's good. Warm. Well, it's What have we here, babe? Peanut butter udon noodles? Yeah. I don't Mmm, not going to fault you for it. Thanks. Pretty good, babe. We'll Mhm, really good. What you're looking at here is about equivalent further south. I tell ya, these She gave me a whole loaf of fresh bread. That's awesome! Just trying to share the &quot;Chad We went to the Atlin Bakery over asked the lady inside if she was baking any I just killed my starter&quot; and then Meg's like, she said yes. So Meg just dropped off a little bit Meg travels with a sourdough starter called Chad, to have a little bit of Chad, go to the Atlin That right there looks so delicious! delicious delectables. Yep, lunch, a very It's 1:00 p.m. Oh my gosh. I have like the hardest like kind of no night time. It'll be like 3 or 4 I don't have any trouble keeping track of time. I also don't have a working phone nor do I have Oh dang, that is like ... Could be Goofy. This is pure sugar. It's Um, way in to Whitehorse? We don't have much time left here to squeak in just a little bit Alright, ready? Ready. Alright! Well, that's pretty .. What does my head look like? Well, that's pretty much it for us, I think. That's as high as we're going to go. It's pretty windy up here and we're only rookie mountaineers, so don't need to push any boundaries. From here, we leave British Columbia for Yukon, remain for the rest of the summer. We depart our we've explored but also know that there is a What just happened? Well, this is what happens when you try and catch the drone out of the air and it doesn't want Oopsies. It's just blood. We made it stopped bleeding right near the off and disinfected and all that good stuff. Someone told me to hold it above my heart. I don't know. I don't get it. From Atlin, British Columbia we continue a short time with some friends and hike some travels throughout BC, we've had a great kickoff The rest of the north still lies ahead of us. Thank you to those of you who choose to sit every week. We sincerely appreciate all of stories. To those of you new here, welcome! we hope our stories inspire you to get outside a big beautiful world out there and you until the next one, keep on roamin. If by keeping gas in our tank and food in our