I'd like to introduce you one that is still speculative and certainly one Quantum biology Does quantum mechanics -- that weird and wonderful of the subatomic world that underpins so much also play a role inside the living cell? In other words: Are there processes, in living organisms with a helping hand Now, quantum biology isn't new; it's been around since the early 1930s. But it's only in the last decade or so in biochemistry labs, have shown very clear, firm evidence that require quantum mechanics Quantum biology brings together molecular biologists -- I come from quantum physics, I've spent more than three decades trying to get my head One of the founders said, If you're not astonished by it, So I sort of feel happy That's a good thing. But it means I study the very the building blocks of reality. If we think about the scale of size, start with an everyday object and just go down orders from the eye of a needle down to a cell, you eventually reach the nano-world. Now, nanotechnology may be A nanometer is a billionth of a meter. My area is the atomic nucleus, It's even smaller in scale. This is the domain of quantum mechanics, and physicists and chemists to try and get used to it. Biologists, on the other hand, They are very happy with their (Laughter) The balls are the atoms, the sticks And when they can't build them nowadays, they have that will simulate a huge molecule. This is a protein made up It doesn't really require much in the way Quantum mechanics It is a set of beautiful and powerful that explain the world of the very small. And it's a world that's very different made up of trillions of atoms. It's a world built It's a fuzzy world. It's a world of phantoms, where particles can also behave If we imagine quantum mechanics as the fundamental then it's not surprising that we say quantum physics underpins After all, it gives us how the atoms fit together Organic chemistry, gives us molecular biology, So in a way, it's sort of not surprising. It's almost trivial. You say, &quot;Well, of course life ultimately But so does everything else. So does all inanimate matter, Ultimately, there's a quantum level where we have to delve into But in everyday life, Because once you put together that quantum weirdness Quantum biology isn't about this. Quantum biology isn't this obvious. Of course quantum mechanics Quantum biology is about looking the counterintuitive ideas and to see if they do, indeed, in describing the processes of life. Here is my perfect example of the quantum world. This is the quantum skier. He seems to be intact, and yet, he seems to have gone around Well, if you saw tracks like that you'd guess it was some But in the quantum world, Particles can multitask, They can do more than one thing Particles can behave It's almost like magic. Physicists and chemists have had of trying to get used to this weirdness. I don't blame the biologists for not having to or wanting You see, this weirdness is very delicate; and we physicists work very hard We cool our system down we carry out our experiments in vacuums, we try and isolate it That's very different from the warm, Biology itself, if you think of seems to have done very well in terms of chemistry -- And these are reductionist, showing that, essentially, life is made and if we can forget about quantum then we should be able to forget Well, one man begged Erwin Schrodinger, was an Austrian physicist. He was one of the founders In 1944, he wrote a book It was tremendously influential. It influenced Francis Crick the discoverers of the double-helix To paraphrase a description At the molecular level, a structure to them that's very different from the random thermodynamic jostling in inanimate matter In fact, living matter seems to behave just like inanimate matter where quantum effects There's something special inside a living cell. So, Schrodinger speculated that maybe It's a very speculative, and it didn't really go very far. But as I mentioned at the start, in the last 10 years, there have been showing where some of these do seem to require quantum mechanics. I want to share with you This is one of the best-known quantum tunneling. The box on the left shows of a quantum entity -- which is not a little ball It's a wave that has a certain probability through a solid wall, like a phantom You can see a faint smudge of light Quantum tunneling suggests that a particle and yet somehow, as though by magic, disappear from one side The nicest way of explaining it is you have to give it enough energy In the quantum world, you can throw it at the wall, that it'll disappear on your side, This isn't speculation, by the way. We're happy -- well, &quot;happy&quot; (Laughter) we are familiar with this. (Laughter) Quantum tunneling in fact, it's the reason our Sun shines. The particles fuse together, and the Sun turns hydrogen Back in the 70s and 80s, it was discovered inside living cells. Enzymes, those workhorses of life, enzymes are biomolecules that speed up by many, many orders of magnitude. And it's always been a mystery Well, it was discovered that one of the tricks that enzymes is by transferring subatomic particles, from one part of a molecule It's efficient, it's fast, a proton can disappear from one place, Enzymes help this take place. This is research that's been particularly by a group Other groups in the UK that enzymes really do this. Research carried out by my group -- so as I mentioned, but I've realized I've got these tools in atomic nuclei, and so can apply One question we asked is whether quantum tunneling Again, this is not a new idea; The two strands of DNA, are held together by rungs; And those rungs of the ladder protons, that act as the glue So if you zoom in, what they're doing nucleotides -- together. Zoom in a bit more. So, this a computer simulation. The two white balls and you can see that One prefers to sit on one side; of the two strands of the vertical lines It can happen that Watch the two white balls. They can jump over to the other side. If the two strands of DNA then separate, and the two protons this can lead to a mutation. This has been known for half a century. The question is: How likely and if they do, how do they do it? Do they jump across, Or can they quantum-tunnel across, Early indications suggest that We still don't know yet this is still an open question. It's speculative, but it's one of those questions that if quantum mechanics surely this must have big implications, to understand certain types of mutations, possibly even those that lead Another example of quantum mechanics in one of the most photosynthesis: plants and using that energy to create biomass. Quantum coherence is the idea It's the quantum skier. It's an object that behaves like a wave, so that it doesn't just move but can follow multiple pathways Some years ago, when a paper was published that quantum coherence carrying out photosynthesis. The idea is that the photon, the quantum of light is then delivered to what's called where it can be turned into And in getting there, it follows multiple pathways at once, to optimize the most efficient way without dissipating as waste heat. Quantum coherence taking place A remarkable idea, and yet evidence is growing almost weekly, confirming that this My third and final example It's also still very speculative, The European robin down to the Mediterranean, every autumn, and like a lot of other they navigate by sensing Now, the Earth's magnetic field it's 100 times weaker and yet it affects the chemistry -- That's not in doubt -- Wolfgang and Roswitha Wiltschko, the robin does find its way by somehow to give it directional information -- The puzzle, the mystery was: Well, the only theory in town -- we don't know if it's the correct theory, is that it does it via something Inside the robin's retina -- I kid you not -- inside the robin's retina which is light-sensitive. Within cryptochrome, a pair of electrons Now, quantum entanglement and yet somehow remain Even Einstein hated this idea; he called it &quot;spooky action (Laughter) So if Einstein doesn't like it, Two quantum-entangled electrons dance a delicate dance that is very sensitive in the Earth's magnetic field. We don't know if it's but wow, wouldn't it be exciting Quantum biology is still in it infancy. It's still speculative. But I believe it's built on solid science. I also think that we're going to start to see that life has evolved tricks Watch this space. Thank you. (Applause)