- This is every single but why did I buy this? So there's one video by MoistCr1TiKaL that people have sent me so many times, so let's find out what - I've been hearing a lot about So they sell old consoles, old games, just anything and everything And over the last week or so, they've been getting dunked on, everyone's been calling them a scam. Now, I didn't know a whole lot about this situation until recently. - This feels very meta. I'm watching a video from &quot;I don't know anything about this. I just learned about it.&quot; Now I'm watching his video where he just learned about the thing. (Austin laughing) - DKOldies' prices are than pretty much anyone but after learning more they make claims saying that they refurbish their - Ah, refurbished, okay. That is the keyword here, And this is not just a I've purchased GameStop that showed up instead being pre-owned, which meant that they I remember there was an Xbox in dirt before. So if DKOldies is doing I made fun of GameStop for doing it. I made fun of Walmart for doing it. Obviously, I've had problems like Wish and everything like that, but that is kind of what everyone does. I think it's worth kind of It doesn't make it right, but it also doesn't single out DKOldies. At least that's my first impression. Okay, maybe we should go &quot;DKOldies Retro Game Store. Shop all of our vintage with a free one-year warranty.&quot; A free one-year warranty, actually a pretty big deal. Almost all of these kind of things that I have purchased in the past come with basically no warranty, maybe return policy of a week or two or a month or something, but having warranty, especially when it comes to old consoles that even if they are in pretty and a lot of things this having a warranty is a big deal. There's actually, they do have a video on how they refurbish consoles. I'm curious about this. - Every day, tons of new collections get sold to us here at DKOldies. Let's take a look at this one for example and let's check out everything that has to happen to this Wii before we can list it for - Okay, how do they refurbish the Wii? - First, it gets picked up and it gets thoroughly checked out to see if there's anything - Okay, they check it out, makes sense. - In this case, the Wii so it's going to need to head to get a new laser installed. - It's one thing to show me how you should be refurbishing consoles. If they do what they do wonderful, two thumbs up. It's another though to actually deliver. And clearly the internet in which this process was not followed. So let's find out, shall we? So when we started working on this video, the site was down after and in fact, we had a lot of problems. So when the site finally came back up and was accepting orders, almost none of the actual so we actually found all of these via Googling it and then which it did actually Now, one thing I will say, My name is not on this packaging, right? - No. What if they actually or figured out it was a YouTuber and like made sure it was a good one? Because we ordered a lot I'm getting all paranoid now. I'm getting paranoid. Okay, I feel something. An old school GameCube controller, not a first party controller, What else is in here? So this is a Dreamcast, hmm. Not in bad condition. This is actually where the I think this is an actual Value on this $165. Even if this is fully perfect, without actually turning it on yet, it does look quite clean, like honestly much cleaner than the average console you find, but $165 is a lot for Dreamcast. This is Wii, all right. Again, I will say this has been cleaned. Now, it's got some damage. Like there's the rubber foot's a little sort of chunked off there, but just you can feel that it's not dirty. You feel it, but feel it though, right? That that feels like it's clearly been like they they gave it a once over. - Yes. - I mean, like a lot of about what the inside of it - I mean see a copy of So this actually came It actually does come with And we've got the disk which, ooh, is quite scuffed on how would you scuffle Looks okay on the bottom though. All right, all right, all Is this the GameCube? It is the GameCube. All right. If you buy a black GameCube, it's going to be a little scuffed and this one I would say is probably in the worst Although, again, you could just feel it. It's in relatively good sort It's got some damage, but this is all cosmetic stuff. None of it is worse than the Well, actually, I will say one (handle gently banging) Hear that? That's the handle. So maybe was just put together a little bit incorrectly or something. I got a big one. This is the PS3, I believe. Oh boy, this is gonna be a good tell if they've actually because these PS3s look Whew, they cleaned it all right. It smells strongly with chemicals. So unlike some of these consoles, like the Dreamcast I think This looks terrible. Part of this is just down to the fact that these PS3 Super Slims, you can't really clean them. It's that glossy like piano black. I understand that they were I would actually say that this is in by far mostly just because of Once you start to like really and you know most cleaning it is going to start really Also, that... I haven't used a Super but like the door Look at that, it doesn't, keep sticking. What the? What is this big? I didn't recognize, It was so fat with all of the wrapper, I actually didn't recognize it. Cosmetically this is great, it had better be because keep in mind, this is the OG 360. This does not have wifi, so via ethernet or buy and at $180 for one controller, that's like double what you one of these for. Mind you, it does have the warranty, which is worth something, and it also is cosmetically in good shape, but that is an enormous amount of money for a very old console. This is 15 years old. Ah, the Game Boy, okay, how how much did we pay for the Game Boy? Oh my god, did we actually? $150 for a Game Boy Color Grape. Good lord, I don't know, I used to go to my video game shop, they sold Game Boy and Game and they were all in pretty good shape. It's the fact that this is $150, bro. So I appreciate the fact that this definitely has new screen. They didn't take off the screen protector so we'll should peel that off here. Battery door is intact. I will say the contacts are clean. Oftentimes you'll see on these Game Boys that things have been corroded after battery's been left in for a while. All right, I think that's it. Boy, that's satisfying. All right, so first off, Fire it up and see. There's no click to that button. Okay, everyone be very quiet. Listened to the lack of There's really nothing to that. Let's try the actual eject button. Totally. Okay, what is that? Come around here. Did that come off? Look, it's like grease. Do you see that? - [Joanna] No, thank you. - That's like straight grease. No, they didn't clean this at all. Look, there's literal dust. Can you see this right here? There's literal dust caked up inside. All right. (disk drive chirping) Is that Morse code? That disk drive does not sound good. I mean it's clearly functioning but I don't think I've ever - [Joanna] Stream now on HBO Max. - Wow, what a terrific game This I already know has a problem. This does not work very well. Although you know now that I say that, this is better than it was It's actually kind of works now. I wonder if it needed to be worked in 'cause it actually is now functioning. Okay, cool, magically fixing Okay, I don't wanna play the but PS3 seems functional. - Two- - I'm wide, I'm the big Wii. (crew grunting) - [Crew] No, no. (Austin evil laughing) - I think it's pretty safe The disk drive is not making From the outside, this Next up we have the GameCube. Did you realize this - [Music] Yo! - JPN. Everything's Japanese. All right, this seems to be totally fine. What I'm curious about though, this is a United States region game running in a Japanese GameCube, which to me means one of two things. Either they modded I would assume that you know, if you had a toggle or something that they would wanna advertise that, or potentially they took and they just put a Japanese shell on it, which is super interesting. It also might explain why It's been opened up in the past. Hmm, okay. Next we have the Game Boy Color. Now to be fair, this is a new screen. This is not a upgraded screen, which I will say for the amount of money that we spent on this, we probably should have had like a backlight or whatever. A lot of people mod these. So for context, my buddy he mods them and look like So Jake will sell you a $200 Game Boy, so a little bit more than this, but it has a custom-printed including an IPS display, which I can guarantee you will than what you've got with this. So the great thing about is that you have to provide and we didn't have a Dreamcast AV cable, so couple days later it's in. So let's try it, shall we? So this is our controller, right? Since it didn't come with any accessories. These used to be the same color. That's white. This is beige and mm, not good. - [Game Voice] Come on with Crazy Taxi. - Luckily this is a profession and could never be replaced Oh yeah, Dreamcast works. All right, first up we have the Xbox 360. I actually had one of these that I did a video on back in like 2009 because it red ringed, but instead of fixing it, which is to suffocate it and it works for five That's the extent of my so we'll see how this goes. All right, we're going to carefully remove our warranty void sticker, which I will say was never I'm mostly curious about this one. The power button doesn't do anything. So there's your your problem. This is supposed to be This is just not attached. That's broken here. So that's why the click That's immediately strike one. Xbox sticker here. What is this Xbox sticker? Hmm, you see that? It's like a weird paper sticker. This could have actually before DKOldies even which doesn't absolve them of anything, but I'm kind of curious like with something that's this it's not outside the realm of possibility that it has been opened Oh, ooh, interesting. Okay, well, I've There's like a piece of here to hold the disk drive in There's like plastic that's just broken. Like I wasn't even anywhere near that. That's broken. What the? What is going on here? This isn't dust, it's grease. You can see my finger. Like it's literally, it's not Like, so this is the same kind of stuff that was sitting in the disk drive. This is supposed to be Come on out. There we go. Now I will say one thing, like in fact impressively and the warranty seal is still on it for the actual disk drive. So my next question is, is That's the only other thing I can think of that could Let's go ahead and crack and see what we find underneath. Now this is the point where no one should really ever do this. Opening up to this point is Taking off the thermal paste and the actual like There we go. Fans are loose-ish. Actually, there's a little dust on the backside of the fans. Actually, yeah, you know There's dust on the backside of the fans and this is the side that to from the outside. Like this is the part if, I owned a 360, that I can actually keep clean myself without tearing the whole thing apart. Okay, so this is classic Come out. There you go. So there you go, that's what 15-year-old It's now thermal goop. Cool. All right. Aah! Oh, that's worse Dude, I could just touch that. Like it is not dried it feels like rubber. For the amount of money that I would expect someone to to the CPU like I'm doing right now, clean off this rubber. Oh my god, dude, that is like, I mean that is almost not even coming off. That is ridiculous. But I would've expected someone to fully have cleaned this off, repasted Otherwise, while, yes, it's it's not the same thing as actually having like a proper console that's gonna be good for years to come. All righty, friends, next up Does the door work today? 'Cause it didn't work Yep. I can't believe the That makes me so mad. Oh, okay, well here's I actually did not notice Clearly this has been because you can see there's missing here, here, and especially here. Whoever did that was because it pops up from the Oh! All right, I've seen a problem. Look at the dust! Okay, so I think it's kind of that they did not open this up. That is gross. Look, there's literally Like, and just to be clear, every single console, this one included, that we purchased from DKOldies, And while the 360 was actually I feel pretty confident in that, this PS3 was absolutely not. There's just, look, look, look, There's literally just caked-on. - Oh! - This looks refurbished, right? So I now understand why There is a broken little that is just floating in here. So as I move it, you see See it sticking? It just sucked it in, great. There it goes, never to be seen again. I can't completely blame DKOldies 'cause it's a terrible design, but at least it explains If it looks this gross just which I don't think gets that imagine what this thing's Aah! Aah! It's like sticky on it. Look! Look at how much is caked on here, around here, over here on the intake. It's all caked on, on the inside too. Me opening it up, I think that was jamming it up 'cause it works again. I fixed it. (air spritzing) Oh! (Austin coughing) (bottle spraying) - [Ken] Wait, that's not okay. - I'm blowing the dust away. Remember, this was $240, you know, like what it cost brand new 10 years ago. All right, let's, ugh! What's all this? Ew! Ew! Aah! Okay, I think I understand more now. It's dusty and it got wet at some point. Do you see all these like streaks? This is from like wet goo or whatever that was inside the system. Look, it's all caked around the USB ports. Look, there's actually like rust here. There's literally rust on Oh my god. It's literally rusting! What the! What! The bottom of the PS3 must because it came in through the The bottom was much worse but the top still has all this stuff. So this thing was dirty and disgusting and then got slightly submerged or was around a butt load of humidity. If they would've done their that this thing is in Oh. Aah. Oh my goodness. It's everywhere. It's literally coated. Look at this bottom edge. Look how as nasty it is. See. Let's go over the couch. I have some thoughts. I wanna be fair here because everyone is piling If anyone from DKOldies may I offer a suggestion? If you are going to charge premium prices for a &quot;refurbished&quot; maybe actually refurbishing. Clean them up, replace the thermal paste, make sure that they are as that you can do a pretty good job making them on the outside. I will say the best part of DKOldies for the unboxing in the first experience is that these consoles actually look good, which most used consoles don't. Some do, but a lot of them There's clearly some care and love that goes into the the problem though is what lurks inside, and until that is I could recommend anyone Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel if you enjoyed and definitely It's not the last time we're taking a look at some very sus consoles. (light upbeat music fades)