Transcriber: Take A Mile I am a French nerd, so I hope I can communicate this. I am passionate about the brain, and I'm passionate about marketing. So the subject that I'd like Neuromarketing. I became a neuromarketer twelve years ago, &quot;neuro,&quot; which means &quot;the brain&quot; &quot;I'm going to try to sell you something (Laughter) I believe it's important for you against people trying to sell you But as you'll see, which, if each and every one of us --I'm going to talk if each and every one of us we could change the world. So what's the definition Neuromarketing and it's about using neurometrics, biometrics, and psychometrics (Laughter) Alright, don't worry you'll be able because I'll make this very clear: it's all about understanding our brains, and understanding that looks like Now, neuromarketing started Why? Well, here's what we do In traditional marketing, we take and we ask them: &quot;What do you want?&quot; And based on their responses, we'll build a product, we'll build a strategy But do you know what is Guess what? Guess what? They don't know what they want! So, it doesn't work. Right? So instead, in neuromarketing We're going to ask them, but we're not going because we know they don't know. (Laughter) Instead, we're going to look that happen in their body, So there're various techniques One of them is called facial coding. We're going to measure the emotion by the 60 muscles that control our faces. We'll be using an eye tracking to figure out exactly We're using voice analysis, well, but we're not going but we're going to pay attention Then we're going to be using It's called the skin conductance test, where we measure the heart-rate, the blood pressure, and our electricity flows between fingers. Then we are going also to use an EEG, to measure the small currents An then an another technique with that we measure the amount of oxygen that's being consumed by the brain So that's what people do I happened to be an expert So what do we do We look at how neuroscientists tell us about how certain stimulus and can you guess what response Audience: Buy. Patrick. R: Yes, we want them So today is the first day because normally companies hire me So I'm going to reveal to you Is that good enough? So let me give you an executive summary What we know about the brain is that, you don't have a single self. First you have your neocortex, and that's the rational self. Now if you take my model here, It's the outside, But then deeper inside which is your emotional self. Which tends to be located here But deep down, further below in the brain, is your reptilian brain, And here's what neuroscientists Is that, our instinctual self, has a greater impact on our final decision or even the emotional us. So what should we do with this? Well, we should listen to those people So here's what one of them says, his name is doctor Rapaille, and he says, &quot;The reptilian always win!&quot; And then this guy who teaches says, &quot;The amygdala,&quot; &quot;has more influence on the cortex And then this guy said, &quot;Although system 2,&quot; &quot;believes itself to be the automatic system 1,&quot; &quot;is the hero of the book... most people choices correspond So I what I am here to tell you is that, we are reptiles. (Laughter) Not that we didn't know it. Since, you know, Darwin, but, people use this against us So let's look at the difference between So these are some of the characteristics let's contrast these First of all, your reptilian it's 5 million years old as opposed The reptilian brain is very fast Because I didn't want It's kind of stupid. Your reptilian brain it only lives in the present. It's the brain that is always on. So that if there is bear It's a brain that is effortless. You don't have to think about it You know you keep you balance. It's a brain that is unconscious, Your reptilian brain controls your heart rhythm, etc. And then finally, it's a brain So I want to show you now and you'll see that you'll use So if I show you this, (Laughter) this is an exercise Instantly without any effort, you kind of create meaning Now how about this one? Try it, guys. Alright. That takes effort, and it takes time Now I want to show you that I can create conflicts by showing you images which are illusions. So, you may have seen that one last year. But is this a spiral or are these circles? So everything in your brain right now, Yes? But guess what? These are circles. These are perfect circles, your reptilian brain tells you, Let me show you another one here. Which one of those two squares What? Come on! Patrick. R: Can anybody see (Laughter) No. Anybody thinks that A Well the answer is A and B Yet everything in your brain So it's very easy to fool So I want to do another exercise. I am going to ask you to read out the colors And we're going to do this So I want everybody to focus. I am going to use the pointer and we'll all read at the same time Okay. Here we go. So everybody... Audience: Red, white, green, brown, white, blue. P.K: Okay, you're doing a 100%, I'm going to make it Now we're going to keep the same exercise, I want you to read out Ready? Here we go. Audience: White, green, black, red, black, green... (Laughter) P.R: Okay. You're not doing I want to tell you. I thought I was going to meet obviously there are exceptions. Anyway, I was able by showing you two different things. Your neocortex is trying to do one thing, your reptilian brain is trying to do So, then if the reptilian brain place such an important role what stimulates the reptilian brain? Well there're only six stimuli So let's review them one by one. The reptilian brain is self-centered. How do advertisers use this against us? Well guess what? Look at this advertising. What did they do? To get to your reptilian brain they shoot that picture of the rider of that bicycle. So in essence when you see this ad, it's you riding this bike. What else did they do? They use the word &quot;You&quot; So for example, &quot;Obey your thirst.&quot; &quot;I want you.&quot; &quot;You've got 30 minutes.&quot; &quot;Do you Yahoo?&quot; And, &quot;You just do it.&quot; Second stimulus is contrast. Contrast as in before-after. Warm-cold. Night-day. So here is an ad which uses contrast You see instantly, you see the contrast and the big elephant bone. And it's an ad of, you know, using calcium, How about this one? I'm sure you've never seen The guy without the hair Do you know why this one works? Because they use contrast The next stimulus is tangible. What that means, is the reptilian brain so it has to have very tangible concepts How do they use this? Reserved for drunk drivers. (Laughter) You see how they made it tangible. How about this one, Mr. Clean. Get it? They made their value The next stimulus is beginning and end. What that means, at the beginning of an interaction, and it forgets pretty much In fact here's what George Lucas said, &quot;The secret to a good movie and don't screw up in the middle.&quot; Because what happens in the middle Then the next stimulus is visual. In fact, if I take my model you'd see that the optic nerves And the optic nerve happens to be the nerve from the ear to the brain. So let's see how they use this This is an ad for a yoga club. Do you see how they make They explain to you What about this one? This one is for a cosmetic surgery center (Laughter) Pretty good to make it visual, right? And the last stimulus is, emotion. So let's see how they use this Don't talk while she drives. Are they talking rational here What about an ad to help you stop smoking. In several countries now around the world you have to have those pictures So, now you're going to tell me great, does this apply to other areas of life? Because I have applied these to marketing and I again help people sell you lot of stuff that you don't need, but does these have So let me tell you what the problem in Amsterdam at the urinals. They had a lot of leaks. So knowing that what do you think that could have done Give me ideas? Here's what they did. They printed a fly which apparently helps men (Laughter) As a result, they reported (Laughter) Guys, this is not science-fiction, (Laughter) Make it visual. How about better eating? Imagine if you were the director and you had to feed 2000 kids a day. Knowing that the reptilian brain what could you do What could you do? Very simple, just change and it can impact its consumption So put the bad food in the middle. Put the vegetables and the fruits What about drinking? How could you use contrast to help people Well, guess what? If you serve in tall glasses, people have a tendency to pour less. Why? because it creates the illusion that you're drinking more. So not only kids but even bartenders Now what about driving? This is a very famous turn They have this really long stretch of road and they have a very dangerous So knowing that the reptilian brain what could you do Now they had tried everything. They had tried the flashing signs, Here's what they ended up doing. I don't know if you can see it well, but on the street they ended up but the key is that those bars as we get to the turn. So it's creating the illusion that you're speeding when in fact Pretty good. How about if you want and knowing that the reptilian brain Any idea? Here's what they did. By simply informing people of the average consumption people started to use less. Because we want to conform, And guess what? Something even more to those people that had reduced They put a smiley on their next invoice. And just getting a smiley So, if you can create an emotion can you imagine what we could do? So what I've done and I teach this around the world, I can't tell you what they are No, actually, the four steps are: You have to diagnose the pain you have to truly understand In other words, not what they want, but what pains and fears do they have The second thing is In other words, you have to look like The third one So whatever you sell them, you're going to take them to a less painful situation, and that's that delta And the third step is, you have to deliver So I even published a book on this. The book can be summarized in a map, and the end of that map as you can see So, what if we all knew What would that mean for teachers? I believe that if teachers understood we would have better education. I also believe the nature of the reptilian brain, If parents were aware we may have better families. If singles were aware we may have better relationships. If doctors were aware we may have better medicine. If film makers were aware well, they do, we would have better entertainment. And if marketers well, it's my job. (Laughter) So this was the definition That definition words intended so most of you but neuromarketing is really Thank you very much. (Applause)