Welcome back to JForrest English. I'm Jennifer, and today we're going to read a no vocabulary, grammar, concepts, and improve Let's get started. First, I'll read the headline Justin You probably recognize Justin Trudeau. He's the Prime Minister of Canada. Well, he announced that he's Of course, this is a very difficult And although Justin Trudeau is a And this is not an easy and it's not an easy thing to go through. For us, we are going to focus to talk about marriage, separation, divorce. So first, let's talk about separate. First, notice the sentence structure to separate. Separate is the verb to separate from When you separate from someone, it means you start to live in a different place Only people who are married can separate. If you are not married to the person, So you start to live in a different So when you separate you The example in the headline was Justin Here. I put this in the present perfect They've already said to each But the present consequence They are separated. So the verb is separate. But you can also talk about it as That describes your current state. So Justin Trudeau has separated from his wife is also very common to describe They've separated, they have separated. You can also simply say Simple, they separated. Here these two examples, the They are the same, the same meaning. Generally, native speakers will use the some connection to the present although Another example, my parents My parents separated. And remember I said after you separate I am separated. We've been separated for two years. So many different ways. Grammatically, you can use this verb. Now also know that when you're So Justin Trudeau and his Their husband and wife. You need to get divorced in order So step one, generally couples will separate. They'll begin living separate lives. But then Step 2, they have to get Now don't worry about writing all this down, because I summarize everything So you can look for the link to Now let's continue with our They have it in the plural. This is when you want to refer to a family unit. So Mr. Trudeau, Mrs. Trudeau, and perhaps their Little Trudeau, 1-2 and three, little Trudeau's, all of them together. You can refer to them as the Trudeau's. The Trudeau's. You need to use the article, the so the S so the plus last name with an S and that The Trudeaus who have been married for 18 now they are separated, but they are also Who have been married for 18 years and who have three children have So here notice a legal agreement separation. This describes what the agreement is. So you can use separation as a noun as well. For example, can we meet So the wife Sophie could say this to Justin. Hey, can we meet to talk about our separation? We need to discuss our separation. When are we going to announce our separation? So you can use this as the noun. And I'll put a question mark because As always, we remain a close family. close as an adjective is very useful for family, So I could say she's my close friend, close friend, listen to that For example, she's my close friend here, close. This means my friend and I a better relationship than You could use this with even You could say my coworker and I are close. So notice here it's to be close My coworker and I. This represents we as a subject. We are close, so perhaps we I talk to this person the As always, we remain a close family. So even though they have separated, separate lives, they remain close. They want to stay. They want to keep a good relationship, close For the well-being of our children, we ask that you respect our privacy and This is why I said at the beginning we're important vocabulary related to which is a must know in social and as you So you respect one's privacy. So in this case it's our privacy, meaning Justin Trudeau and his wife So to respect one's privacy. So I'll put this here to Trudeau said in a post on Instagram. OK, so this what I just read. This is what he said in a post on Instagram. So it sounds like they announced It is the noun form. They announced their separation and then Are you enjoying this lesson? Do you enjoy learning English If so, then I know you'll love This is my premium training program where the news, movies and YouTube so you fast English and Add all of this advanced help you sound fluent and natural, So you can look for the link in Let's continue. Mr. Trudeau's wife and children have played So here the expression is to play a role in something and then notice we have an adjective, So let me highlight this for you. In his political career, the conjugation Have played a role to suggest that they a prominent role, and they So let's take a look at another example. With this, expanding your vocabulary plays So this is simply saying expanding It plays an important role. So remember, this is your adjective. So you can use a different adjective and you have to conjugate your verb play In this case, this is a gerund sentence to gerund sentences are conjugated as it This plays an important role. Do you agree with that? I'm sure you do. So if you agree with that, put this English lessons play an important I should also note that you have the gerron here So here's a good example. Hopefully you agree with this JForrest English. The YouTube channel JForrest English plays an So here you have your verb play conjugated and then important role. You could change this for a different and then in and then you have your So if you agree with this, put that in the comments below and feel Let's continue. So they play a prominent often accompanying him on trips overseas When you accompany someone, it means Is a little more formal, though. So if I want to invite my friend I could say can you accompany me to the movies? But that sounds a little formal, I would say. Do you want to come with me to the movies? So this makes sense in this context. But in a more everyday context, you can simply Let's continue. His young children have Trudeau, now 51, as a youthful, vigorous leader. Let's talk about vigorous. This is a great adjective, Vigorous. Vigorous. This means energetic. So I gave you an example sentence here. I've been vigorously watching So you watch this lesson very attentively. You're spending a lot of energy on you watch another lesson, so that But what do you notice between the Well, here it's an adjective, Adverb adverbs generally end in And I did that because my example So grammatically you need an adverb. So I'll just write that for you. Adverb. Maybe I'll write it below so And if you have been vigorously watching Put that in the comments as well. That's a great adjective. Or in this case, adverb to practice vigorous. I like that one as a useful vigorous leader. His wife, 48, is a former television presenter and helped burnish his image Let's look at burnish his image. Burnish is a verb. Remember it as this expression. Burnish one's image or burnish one's So you could have said and helped improve his make his reputation more attractive. So generally we use this with public So Coca cola needs to burnish their image. They need to improve their So his wife, because she was a former television she helped burnish his image I like this. A touch of a touch of something Here's an everyday example. You could use this dish whatever This dish needs a touch of salt, a touch of Or she put on a touch of perfume before her date. So a small amount of perfume. She didn't want it to be too I'll read this part again now. His wife, 48, is a former television presenter and helped burnish his image A small amount of glamour. The Prime Minister's Office said that kids in a safe, loving and It added that they will be a constant Notice how it said it added. It added because what's the subject here? The subject is the Prime Minister's Office saying this because they didn't say Joe from Joe or Joseline from the Prime Minister's But because they're talking about It added, the office added that they children's lives and that the family So this is an example of how What's that adjective close. So example of how the family They're going to still go on vacations together. Let's continue. The couple met in Montreal in So that's why we have the past simple Notice how we have were married. That's because the expression So you take your verb to be In this case it is in the past simple. And were married three years later after Mr. Trudeau, who had spent years teaching So notice the past perfect here had spent because met. In 2002 they got married and So those are all past actions. But we use the past perfect to show So he had spent years teaching before he Now notice how I've also been saying get married to get married because we use get married to talk So, for example, you could say we got married in 2014, we're getting Okay. So this is talking about the transition from not I'll move that here. Now to be married. This is used in We are now So someone might ask you, oh, are Are you boyfriend, girlfriend? And you can say no, we're married. We're married. He's my husband. She's my wife. We're married. We've been married for 10 years. OK, to be married. And this is just in the present. Perfect, because it started in the We've been married for 10 years. We are married. So be married your current state. Get married. Is the transition from not married to married? Nelson Wiseman, a professor of political said that while Miss Gregoire her husband at public events after he had more recently decreased notably OK But remember, before, it was in often accompanying him, often going with him. And here is just in the past. Simple, but the verb is to accompany someone. You accompany someone, which means you go So his wife, Miss Gregoire Trudeau, at public events after he became Prime Minister. So by saying prominently, it means So she was always there by his side, I imagine she was very prominent. Her appearances had more When you say notably, it means that it Before she was always there in pictures, but now when you see pictures, you I don't see Sophie, I don't see Mrs. Trudeau. So that's notably, for example, you She was notably late, so when you're notably It was obvious. So if you're just one minute or two But if you show up an hour late or 45 She was notably late, even though the role Trudeau's carefully crafted image. Mr. Wiseman, that was the the Wiseman said he foresaw no political So here separation is being As a noun. If you wanted to use it as a verb, you That would be how you could But hear from the separation and you could Or you could say it's possessive and Here for saw. So this is the verb see conjugated in the past. So see saw. But when you foresee something, it means you, So because this just happened, we don't A political fallout is when So a negative impact from the There was a negative impact. And how could there be a negative impact? His popularity goes down, his ratings So political fallout, negative Negative impact political fallout. It doesn't just have to be a political fallout. A company could experience a fallout if So that could negatively impact OK, so to foresee is when you see it in But this just happened. So right now it's a little premature. It's too soon to say if there so that's why he's using the He already said this, so Simple for saw, but the verb is there will be a political fallout from their And that's the end of the article. So what I'll do now is I'll go to the beginning and this time you can focus on my pronunciation. Justin Trudeau separates The Trudeaus, who have been married for have signed a legal separation agreement. As always, we remain a close family with For the wellbeing of our children, we ask that Trudeau said in a post on Instagram. Mr. Trudeau's wife and children have played often accompanying him on trips overseas His young children have Trudeau, now 51, as a youthful, vigorous leader. His wife, 48, is a former television presenter and helped burnish his image The Prime Minister's Office said that kids in a safe, loving and It added that they will be a constant that the family plan to The couple met in Montreal in 2002 and Trudeau, who had spent years teaching Nelson Wiseman, a professor of political said that while Miss Gregoire Trudeau public events after he became Prime Minister, her even though the role of family Trudeau's carefully crafted image, Mr. Wiseman said he foresaw no political Did you like this lesson? If so, then make sure you subscribe, because I post lessons like this every speaking guide where I share 6 tips on how You can click here to download it or And why don't you get started