How do some people get millions of monthly content gets zero traffic from Google? The problem isn't tactics. It's that top performers follow a proven predictable and scalable. And I'm going to teach you how And it all begins at stage One - Now, there's plenty of ways to hack And it's like that for most things in life. For instance, if you wanted to learn a simple a chord sheet, practice a few times, But what if you wanted to perform Well, repeating the same practice You'd need to learn music theory, practice even work with a teacher to master So building your repeatable traffic acquisition And that involves choosing the right type to get traffic from. And let me make that This traffic chart is typical when your strategy You might get big initial spikes of but it almost always ends up fading to Now, compare that with this traffic graph evergreen content and generates their traffic Traffic isn't exactly "instant", but it's free, helping you take steps closer to your So, now that we know the strategy to get 10k do the work to get those visitors to our site. And that all happens in stage 2: The tactics. Now, some people get intimidated by But when you're under 10,000 monthly in the four pieces of the SEO puzzle. The first piece being "keyword research" - that people are actually searching for. And this process starts by generating To do that, brainstorm some broad For example, if I had a site about learning &quot;guitar,&quot; &quot;fingerpicking,&quot; and &quot;strumming.&quot; Next, paste those into a keyword research go to a Keyword ideas report like And just like that, we have our big list of keywords. Now, if you don't have an Ahrefs account, which I'll link up in the description. Alright, so with our big list of keywords, that are actually worth going after. And to determine this, you can use a 3-point search demand. Now, this is easy because keyword research for a given keyword. And all you want to do is make sure there's that there's some consistency month over month. But the second checkpoint is actually much more you have a realistic chance of ranking for. And while there's no definitive way to quantify only compete for keywords where websites To figure this out, go to our free Website to check your website's level of "authority." For example, my guitar site is pretty new Now, whatever your site's DR is, add 10 to it. And that number is kind of arbitrary, but it only competing against websites in the Now, let's take this number back And I'm going to set a "lowest DR" filter number and hit Apply. And if we expand the search results for there are indeed pages ranking here in the Now, given that you can execute on the rest of get searched regularly, and therefore, you But before we get to solving the rest of the checkpoint for keyword research, which is all Go and look through your list of keywords, and searching for this topic be For example, if my guitar education a keyword like "how to play f chord on guitar" So would keywords like "how much are guitar These keywords all hit the sweet Now, a keyword like "what is the most search demand and is possible to rank for. But it doesn't exactly sound like something So, go through your entire list, save the good to go to unlock the second piece of the SEO Google's job is to give searchers the most This means that the pages ranking in the searchers want to see for that query. For example, if I search for "how much do shows the answer directly in the search results. And if we click into that page, you'll see the first 10 words of the blog post because they Now, copying what the top ranking page Matching the searcher's intent by providing have a chance at ranking. But if you go a step further and think about you may be able to give yourself an edge. Like, what determines this price range? How do I know if a teacher is actually good? What can I expect to learn in my first few lessons? And is it going to be worth the money? These are subtopics that you'd want it as comprehensive as possible. Because ultimately, we want to give visitors convert or leave satisfied with the answer they got. So when creating content, go in with the the primary desire for your visitor, and then And if you do that, while nailing the more which we've got a step-by-step tutorial this piece of the SEO puzzle. But in all honesty, there's usually not a whole for factual informational topics like or "how to play f chord on guitar". And that's where the two missing pieces an edge... with the third piece being backlinks. Backlinks are when a web page links And links have been one of Google's most And if you're not getting a lot of traffic now, a lack So let's fix that and start by getting links to Now, the first tactic you can And because podcast hosts usually have homepage and socials on an episode page. So, by getting interviewed, you're pretty Just go to Google and search for Then click through to some relevant pages, be a good guest on, and then The second tactic you can use And this is when you try and get mentioned So I'll go to Google and search for "best online And all I'm going to do is look for a reason So as an example, if this site changed from the author to let them know and suggest my site Now, the final method you can use is to So again, assuming Justin Guitar is a similar Ahrefs' free Backlink Checker. I'll set the mode to "exact URL" since we're looking And right away, you'll see up to 100 backlinks pointing But the full version of this report in Site Explorer, plenty of filters to narrow down your list of prospects. For example, I can search for the word "best" seconds, I'll find over 200 pages that which are opportunities for me. Now, homepage backlinks are just foundational already have them. But I have two harsh truths for you. Harsh truth #1. You're going to need backlinks And harsh truth #2. It's not easy to get "how to play the f chord on guitar." But the good news is that you can still rank high to your pages. And that's done by unlocking the fourth Your website is connected via internal links, website to another page on the same site. And when it's mapped out, it kind of resembles and users navigate through your site. Now, not only is site structure important the only type of backlink that's guaranteed And the reason why they're helpful from an SEO So backlinks essentially give "power" to a Basically, if a page has tons of quality links making it more authoritative in the eyes of Google. Now, if that page links to 2 other pages, PageRank which also helps And if that page links to 2 other pages, can be passed down - but to a lesser degree. Now, if you carefully structure your of your site's backlinks while giving users For example, I might create a page on guitar chords. And on that page, I'd link to all relevant pages So PageRank can be passed via. internal Now, rinsing and repeating the steps in SEO can and can actually take you into the millions But getting traffic through search And this takes us to stage 3: When you put all your traffic in one social media or whatever basket, Any of these platforms can take away your update, a platform update, or even a shadow ban. And as unjust as it might feel, they have But the good news is that you aren't starting should be doing its job - sending you Now, unlike before when we chose just test multiple traffic sources. But there's a couple things that #1. Your target audience should you're trying to get traffic from. And #2. You'll want to choose low effort And I want to expand on this Now, because our traffic foundation was built with that can be repurposed to different platforms. For example, this post on 56 Google search repurpose into a Twitter thread and our target audience spends a lot of time. Now, this post on finding competitor keywords but it would probably be better as on where our target audience spends time. Now, whichever traffic sources you try, give them And as you do this, you're going to notice platforms than others. And that other platforms have And once you identify the best platforms while keeping the SEO train still running. Now, one of the best ways to grow fast is to and business owners. And there's no better place to In October, we'll be hosting our first ever where you'll get to hang with me and Early bird tickets are still available, Hope to see you there!