Madam President and gentlemen, ladies of the I standing here with eight minutes in my hands I was going to assure you that I belong to as Henry VIII said to his wives 'I shall not But now finding myself the seventh speaker long evening to you I rather feel like Henry I know more or less of what expected of me Perhaps what I should do is really try and by the Opposition today. We had for example Sir Richard Ottaway suggesting be argued that the economic situation of the of British colonialism. Well I stand to offer you the Indian example, India share of the world economy when Britain the time the British left it was down to below Why? Simply because India had been governed for Britain's rise for 200 years was financed In fact Britain's industrial revolution was of India. The handloom weaver's for example famed across the world, Britain came right in. There were actually these weaver's making said, and Britain came right in, smashed their and duties on their cloth and products and from India and shipping back manufactured became the products of the dark and satanic That meant that the weavers in India became famous exporter of finished cloth into an world trade to less than 2 per cent. Meanwhile, colonialists like Robert Clive the proceeds of their loot in India while as well as their habits. And the British had the gall to call him Clive when all he really did was to ensure that By the end of 19th century, the fact is that the world's biggest purchaser of British goods employment for British civil servants. We literally paid for our own oppression. And as has been pointed out, the worthy British of the slave economy, one fifth of the elites owed their money to transporting 3 million And in fact in 1833 when slavery was abolished million pounds was paid not as reparations suffered or been oppressed by slavery but I was struck by the fact that your Wi-Fi password Gladstone - the great liberal hero. Well, I am very sorry his family was one of Staying with India between 15-29 million Indians The most famous example was, of course, was II when 4 million people died because Winston policy proceeded to divert essential supplies and Europeans as reserve stockpiles. He said that the starvation of anyway underfed Greeks' - Churchill's actual quote. And when conscious stricken British officials dying because of this decision, he peevishly Gandhi died yet?&quot; So, all notions that the British were trying despotism to try and bring the benefits of Even I am sorry - Churchill's conduct in 1943 to this myth. As others have said on the proposition - violence experience. And no wonder that the sun never set on the the English in the dark. Let me take the World War I as a very concrete these couldn't be quantified. Let me quantify World War I for you. Again I am sorry from an Indian perspective One-sixth of all the British forces that fought lost their lives in that war, 65 000 were or in prison. Indian taxpayers had to cough up a 100 million India supplied 17 million rounds of ammunition, garments were stitched and sent out of India this war. I know all this because the commemoration But not just that, India had to supply 173,000 in the end the total value of everything that was suffering from recession at that time 8 billion pounds. You want quantification, it's available. World War II, it was was even worse - 2.5 I won't believe it to the point but Britain's money, 1.25 billion was owed to India and Somebody mentioned Scotland, well the fact union with Scotland. The Scots had actually tried to send colonies sorry to say. But, then of course, came union and India employment of Scots, I am sorry but Mr Mckinsey enterprise as soldiers, as merchants, as agents, is what brought prosperity to Scotland, even Now that India is no longer there, no wonder Now we have heard other arguments on this Well let me tell you first of all as my colleague out, the railways and roads were really built the local people but I might add that many having had to be colonalised in order to do They were designed to carry raw materials to Britain. And the fact is that the Indian or Jamaican incidental. Transportation - there was no attempt made none what so ever. Instead in fact the Indian railways were built to British investors, guaranteed out of Indian you actually had one mile of Indian railway costing twice what it cost to built there was so much money being paid in extravagant Britain made all the profits, controlled the absolutely all these benefits came as British That was the railways as an accomplishment. We are hearing about aid, I think it was Sir Well let me just point out that the British GDP. The government of India actually spends more appropriate metaphor for that argument. If I may point out proposition have pointed out there have been massacres, of blood shed, of transportation emperors. Yes, may be today's Britains are not responsible speakers have pointed with pride to their the people starving in Somalia but you give for what is the wrongs that have done cannot It's been pointed out that for the example the massive psychological damage that has of the property rights, of the authority structures British colonialism and the fact remains that including the persistence and in some cases tensions were the direct result of colonialism. So there is a moral debt that needs to be Someone challenged reparations elsewhere. Well I am sorry Germany doesn't just give to Poland perhaps some of the speakers here of Charles William Brunt on his knees in the There are other examples, there is Italy's Korea even Britain has paid reparations to So it is not as if this is something that opens some sort of nasty Pandora box. No wonder professor Louis reminded us that There is a wonderful expression in Texas that 'All hat and no cattle'. Now, If I can just quickly look through the were speaking, there was a reference to democracy Let me say with the greatest possible respect, kill, maim, torture people for 200 years and democratic at the end of it. We were denied democracy so we had to snatch reluctance it was considered in India's case with limited franchise. If I may just point out the arguments made The first speaker Mr. Lee in particular conceded but essentially suggested that reparations people, they would be use of propaganda tools, So, it's nice how in the old days, I am sorry used to frighten their children into behaving would come up after them that was the legacy, Francis Drake of our time. The fact is very simply said, that we are empower anybody, they are a tool for you to and I am quite prepared to accept the proposition to the kinds of horrors people have suffered. Certainly no amount of money can expedite out there. You are not going to figure out the exact The fact is that to speak blithely of sacrifices - a burglar comes into your house and sacks there was sacrifice on both sides that I am The truth is that we are not arguing specifically The proposition before this house is the principle of how much is owed, to whom it should be The question is, is there a debt, does Britain As far as I am concerned, the ability to acknowledge sorry will go a far far far longer way than What is required it seems to me is accepting Personally, I will be quiet happy if it was the last 200 years of Britain in India. Thank you very much madam President.