You're my best friend. Let's trade your life In exchange for my happiness with Zhanan. Spending so much money on treatment It's better to end the pain sooner Play your last role I'll help you take good care of I'll help you take good care of Zhanan. I'll enjoy the money you left behind. I'll enjoy the 5 million dollars of insurance money you left behind I've been saving money to honor my in-laws But in the end, I ended up in this situation I won't let you go even if I'm dead Thank you all for coming Huuhui's funeral I've known Hui-Huei for many years We loved each other very much But who would have thought She died of cancer She died at a young age As her husband I was deeply saddened Huuhui was an orphan As her best friends Zhanan and I We'll escort her on her last journey I'm not dead. Huifu Have you changed yet? Tsui Ching-Lu. Isn't this the dress Xu Chinglu chose that dress for me the day Shi Zhanan proposed? I've been reborn. Five years ago today. This girl is too old-fashioned. The boy doesn't look bad. What do you think? To be proposed to like this? It's too embarrassing, right? Hurry up. I'll wait for you on the first floor. The pain of my past life. I'm going to give you all a taste of it. It's so beautiful. It's so expensive. Isn't this too pretty? You look much better today Huuhui, I know you have low self-esteem. You've always felt that you You've always felt that you're not good enough for me But now you're doing it for me You've changed yourself for me I'm very happy This is the stone I sharpened for you. I sharpened it for you. And my name is engraved on it. Who proposes with ten stones? Why is it a broken stone? What an eye-opener! You're a real cheapskate. Why did you marry a man like this in your past life? I married this kind of man in my past life. Huu Huu. Today is May 20th, 2019 On this special day I propose to you It's because Wait May 20th This is not Pei's group president Pei's group president almost drowned in the body on the day? You first busy I go Leave me to Hey wake up wake up I saved you My name is Wen Huihui. Remember, I saved you. My name is Hui-Huei. You saved me. That's right. My name is Hui-Huei. &quot;Culture&quot; as in &quot;culture Flower as in flower. My cell phone number is 18800013138 Hey, wake up! Did you hear me? My name is Wen Huihu Big brother! Don't press it. It hurts too much. My name is Wen Huihui. Remember that! My name is Wen Huihui. Hey! My name is Wen Huihui. Don't forget In my past life, the news said that someone saved him They were paid a huge amount of money. After all I've done. I'm sure he'll I'm sure he'll repay me. Wen Huihui You've gone too far today Zhan An was in the middle of proposing to you. How could you run away? Is Zhan An with you? Of course We've been waiting for you at the mall for half a day. The mall? Don't think I don't know. You two are already together. Then put Zhan An on the phone. Wen Huihui I was in the middle of my proposal What do you mean you ran away? I was in a hurry You can't just leave without telling me You can't just leave without telling me Let Lulu take care of me. Let Lulu take care of you for a while. She loves taking care of Other people's boyfriends. What did she say? She said You're the best at taking care of Other people's boyfriends. What does she mean? Okay, okay, okay. Zhan An Huuhui has gone too far I feel sorry for you You're still the best Will you still marry her? Yes Why not? She has 200,000 dollars in savings. Let's cheat her first. Didn't your family move out? Why do you need her money? It's not demolished yet. When will the money arrive? I don't know. How can I support you without money? This one day room fee can be more than 500 Pei's president fell into the water Big President Why do not you find me ah Good morning, Mr. Pei As soon as possible to find the person who saved me Any clues or characteristics Her phone It seems to start with 188 Mr. Pei's range is too wide, isn't it? Her name seems to be Huuhu Flowers of flowers My life was saved by her Must find her Huuhui, my mom wants to see you. We've been talking for so long. It's time to settle down Meet the parents I want Lulu to go with me It's our wedding Why do you want her to go? I'm an orphan. I don't have any parents to go with me. Lulu has been my only companion all these years. Lulu has always been there for me. So I got used to it. She's always with me. That's good. Seo Ching Lu. Don't you want to marry him? I'll do my best to help you. I have something to do. I'll leave now. Shi Zhanan. There you are. When are you going to pay me back? Soon. My house will be demolished soon. I'm sure I'll be able to pay it back after the demolition. How long have you been saying that? Why hasn't it been demolished yet? I'm on my way. My fiancee has money. After we get married. I'll pay you back soon. I'll give you two more days. Okay, okay, okay. Hurry up! Let's go. It's only 140,000 dollars. When I have money I'll kill you with my money. You're so uneducated. How dare you be late for your parents' meeting? Don't be angry, Auntie. Huuhui is always late It's my fault for not reminding her today To come earlier Hmph! I'll remind her again Mom, this is all the money I have You can't even have a baby. What's wrong with using your money? Hello, Auntie. Why are you dressed like this? My mom hates this kind of dress. Doesn't it look good? You're dressed like this? You work at a nightclub? Oh, I just left my job. No job? Do you know how to cook? My son's diet must Nutrition When cooking I can eat What do you mean? Mom, she's just kidding. As a woman Must be able to cook And have children in the future. I don't plan to have kids. I'm a Dink. You don't cook, you don't have kids. Why would I marry you? I could learn. How much can you give me? How much can you give me? How much? Hui-Huei, you haven't married Zhan An yet. Why are you thinking of their family? Money? I'm not as aware as you are If I could marry you I'd be so happy Mom. Her family has a dowry of 200,000 dollars. 200,000 dowry is barely acceptable. Where's the 200,000 dollars? Look at me. Is it worth 200,000? Zhan An Is this the kind of woman you brought To see me? You don't like me? Zhan An Do you usually live in This kind of family atmosphere? No wonder you always told me You're not happy at home. Why don't you come out with me? Auntie, have some tea to calm down Huuhui is just a bad personality She's still a good person She's got no manners. I'll make you some soup later My soup is delicious. It's just that I've been so busy with work lately. I don't have much time. I'm glad you're here. Then where do you work? Pei's Group Uh-huh. That's a big company Why is Zhan An so blind? Do you have a boyfriend? Not yet Then go get that asshole Call him back to me I'm on my way You dressed like this to piss me off? Right? I'm free to dress the way I want. It's none of your business. My mom doesn't like it. Then go find something your mom likes Ms. Wen Huifu, please follow me to the car Hey! No wonder Ms. Wen Huihui has been She's been acting so strange lately Looks like she's hooked up with She's hooked up with a rich man Shameless! What's that? I said she's shameless. Not a word. She's hooked up with a rich man. A rich man? How do you do? I'm Wen Huifu I saved the CEO. There's a line over there. I'm Hui-Huei Wen I know. Line up over there! I didn't even change my clothes before I was dragged here I can't believe I'm still standing in line Come on, please come in Mr. Pei All called Huuhui Cell phone number beginning with 188 Have all arrived You all say separately The situation at that time It must have been me I'm a paramedic. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation I'm a professional. I can rule you out. That guy's CPR. Not professional at all Mr. Pei You were wearing a suit The president is not every day Wearing a suit Mr. Pei, you vomited a lot of water Can a drowning person not vomit water? How about you I have a point Absolutely can prove It's her What are you doing? Mr. Pei, don't misunderstand I just want to prove When I saved you Opened this button See you have one here Okay, that's enough It's you. I remember now. Go ahead. What do you want? I promised you. I promised you I'd pay you back. Well, here's your chance. I recently left my job. I need a job. I'm a little short on cash. I know, I know, I know. I'm looking for an assistant. Why don't you come and be my assistant? Ah, ah, ah, ah. Assistant? A salary of 100,000 dollars a month. I promise to serve you well There's no need for special services. You do your own work Just don't get any ideas. What do you mean? You do not think that as my Assistant You can make a move on me Mr. Pei's interviews for this year have begun This is the resume Give it to my assistant Xu Qinglu Huuhui why are you here You're here for the interview too You can't even marry into the Shi family How dare you come to Pei's for an interview? No one even wants you to clean the house. You're the best Then teach me some interview skills This you do not understand it The company must first have connections I see. Huu Huu. If I don't pass this proposal I won't be able to get a job But Do you still consider me a friend? Okay, fine. The proposal is fake. You're out of here. Wait for me, Seo Ching-lu. This is my resume. Your resume is very simple. What do you think your strengths are? I've heard that Your company emphasizes on outward appearance. I think I'm a good candidate. What have you done before? Any big, well-known projects? I think Your company can offer me A better platform Huuhui, I haven't finished the interview yet. What are you doing here? Do you know the rules? This one here Actually You can come together You know each other Actually, our company We don't value resumes that much This project experience We'll have time to develop it. So I've been accepted? You are accepted Huuhui this is Pei's group What are you talking about? Oh This interview she is the chief director Don't worry as my good sister I will definitely arrange a position for you What position? It's about the company's image. A very important position. A position that's important to the company's image. A very important position. Let me tell you something. I got you this job. I got you this job. Cherish it. I'm not talking to you. I've got work to do. I've already told Zhanan I've joined Pei's It seems that we can only endure Auntie help clean up Who is auntie The newcomer, why don't you hurry up and clean up? Must have hooked up with Mr. Pei Wen Huihui You can do it, so can I Don't let me see her again Mr. Pei, I really didn't mean it Security guard This is the 20th one this month Mr. Pei hates people like you Smarty pants You give me a new position I do not want to do this This is all my hard work for you I fought hard for you I was scolded by Mr. Pei for this Mr. Pei gave me a scolding Then You insist on insisting If you do a good job, maybe There is a chance of promotion Who's the housekeeper? Mr. Pei That one is recruited by Assistant Wen He's her friend Mr. Pei There's a document you need to sign I do not drink coffee What did you say Nothing Thank you Mr. Pei good Finish the paperwork today Mr. Pei There are female employees Want to hitchhike She's really different from the others She is really different from others Linda Get the cleaning lady that Wen Huihui recruited. Get her in here Wen Huihui can seduce her way to the top. Why can't I? As long as I can climb up to Mr. Pei I'll be able to change my job Oh, my God I did not expect that Mr. Pei He likes this kind of uniform temptation Wiping a table Do not need to lean so close Yes, Mr. Pei You were recruited by Wen Huihui Yes, Mr. Pei Have you known each other for a long time? Yes We've known each other since high school We're very close She has a boyfriend She had a boyfriend for many years. It's a pity that Huuhui She doesn't know how to cherish it He even proposed to her But she's still fooling around How dare she have a boyfriend Mr. Pei Is she still courting you? Every time she meets a man She's always like this Mr. Pei, you must be careful! So obvious green tea It seems not a true friend Got it Go out He believed Okay, Mr. Pei Take care of the housekeeper Wen Huihui recruited Keep an eye on him It's Mr. Pei Ching Lu I heard you've joined Pei's group That's great! I heard that Zhan An's house is going to be demolished It's also very powerful When I was in school I thought you two were the best match Who's the best match? Wen Huihui, you're so beautiful now. You've become so pretty. Come on, sit here. You've really changed. She's so pretty. Let's have a drink. Hui-Hui-Hu is the prettiest. You two are perfect for each other That's right. Huuhui, where do you work? Pei's Group Then you and Xiaolu are in the same company We're not in the same department I work in the president's office as an assistant Then the president's assistant salary is very high, right? 100,000 dollars a month What department are you in? It doesn't matter. Excuse me. I'm going to the restroom. I'll go too. Huu Huu I've been enjoying a good stock market lately. Can you lend me some money? I'll pay you back with interest I'll pay you back How much do you need? Is 200,000 enough? How about 500,000? Really? That's great. Hello, I need to borrow 500,000 yen. Haruna? Yes, ma'am. Thirsty? Here you go. Thank you, Linda. You and Mr. Pei are very close, aren't you? He's been looking for you lately. Looks like she misunderstood. I don't know Pei Jing Shen always comes to me To ask about Wen Huihuifu Don't tell anyone Oh Don't worry, Mrs. President It's okay We can use her to deal with Hui-Huei. What? Wen Huuhui tried to seduce Mr. Pei! Because of her Jing Shen has become cold to me because of her Don't worry, I'll help you I'll help you squeeze a cup of fruit juice for Mr. Pei Send it to the office Remember to pick out the dragon fruit seeds Pick out Extract a cup of integrated juice for Mr. Pei Send it to the office Remember to pick out the dragon fruit seeds Pick out the seeds Who eats dragon fruit and picks out the seeds? So picky Mr. Pei is allergic to dragon fruit You go straight in to save him This way This can let Wen Huihu For doing something wrong And lose her job And let Mr. Pei Be touched and like you more If you succeed I'll ask Jing Shen to give you a raise Thank you, ma'am Mr. Pei Mr. Pei Are you alright? Why did you come in? I thought you needed a housekeeper I thought you needed cleaning Mr. Pei, are you okay? Thanks to Ching Lu To bring you medicine What medicine? It's nothing I'm fine, I'm fine Wen Huifu I asked you to squeeze juice for Mr. Pei Have you put all the fruits? Dragon fruit? You ate it yourself You ate it quite happily You come up with me Do you know they're setting you up? Dragon fruit? You're allergic to dragon fruit. You're allergic to dragon fruit. So I made a new one. I didn't realize you knew me so well. It's in the assistant's manual. It's all in the assistant's handbook, isn't it? I memorized it carefully Mr. Pei The things you asked me to do Has been dealt with You You go out and wait for me I have something to show you Be prepared. Yes, ma'am. It's Shi Zhanan. It's an intimate photo of Shi Zhanan and Xu Qinglu. It's pretty clear. What's the point? Is it a question of clarity? This is your boyfriend. Oh Thank you, Mr. Pei I did not realize that the company also help employees Catch cheating This you can also endure Uh-huh Love brain ah It's me. Assistant Chen Mr. Pei Take her out Assistant Wen please Why are you so excited? I have not seen them Retribution of course can not be divided How did you do the report? Redo it. Where's this guy? Where's Wen Huihui? I'm off duty. I'm off at the end of the day. What's with all the junk? It's the lady with another man. Wen Huihui Must be trying to destroy Mr. Pei's Relationship with Mrs. Pei This time I must help Madam to solve You are Shi Zhanan Who are you? Why are you looking for me? You're the one who's been pestering Seo Ching-lu, right? What do you mean? Stop pestering her She's already with Mr. Pei She's with our Mr. Pei Mr. Pei Pei's president Yes, that's the richest Pei Don't be a third party anymore You mean Xu Qinglu and Pei's president She's with Pei's CEO That's right. So I advise you to be smart Don't make a fool of yourself. Seo Ching Lu, this little cutie She's pretty good. She's sick. Don't bother with her anymore. I heard that You're with Mr. Pei. Who told you that? Is it Wen Huihui? She slandered me I'm not with Mr. Pei You work under him every day How can I trust you? I really didn't You believe me I believe you Then how do you prove it? Unless Give me some of his good programs. Don't worry. Wait for my good news. Ching-Lu, you've got to give me credit for this. You do not know How hard I've worked for you and Mr. Pei's happiness How hard I've worked for you and Mr. Pei's happiness What did you work for? I helped you get rid of Shi Zhanan So it's this idiot Then you try harder Help me get rid of Wen Huihui too Uh-huh. I can't get rid of Wen Huihu for a while I can't get rid of her yet Because she just took over a big project It's a big project I heard that She and Mr. Pei had a lot of conflicts Have had a lot of conflict over this project Why can't this project be done You listen to me to tell you I don't want to hear you tell me What are you arguing ah You're playing games again. It's nothing. It's gotta be something big. I'll have to look for it. The president. The trash can is full of snack bags. Where's the important information you promised me? Wen Huihui Tianliang's project is mine Zhan An, you must seize this opportunity I've arranged an appointment with Mr. Wang. We must get to Mr. Wang before Wen Huihui We must get Mr. Wang before Wen Huihui does Is the Tianliang Group really that good? Of course, Mr. Wang told me The value of the company will increase within a month. That's inside information. But I don't have that much money in my hand It's all in the stock market Aiya You take it out Think about it If we get Tianliang's shares It's more profitable than you in the stock market You've made more money in the stock market Take a gamble If we can become a shareholder of Tianliang It's not bad at all Xiao Xu is here Come, come, come. Sit, sit, sit. Mr. Wang. The gift I gave you last time. Do you still like it? Yes, I like it Tsui has a heart This is my boyfriend Shi Zhanan Mr. Wang. I've heard about The Tianliang Group If you can take me with you I'd be very grateful. There are so many young people like you There are too many of them. I'm a big business Everyone wants a piece of it Even that Pei's group Even begged to cooperate with me Yes Pei's group can't compare with you Come on, Mr. Wang, let's drink to you How much are you going to invest? We are 20 Xiao Xu You young people You really don't know what's good for you You want to be shareholders with such a small amount of money Do you know how big my project is? How big it is? Brother Wang, don't worry. Take us under your wing. Mr. Wang We'll put in 30 Xiao Xu At least 500,000 dollars To qualify for the game I'm doing this for your sake From now on, if you follow me, you'll do as you're told We can talk about anything Brother Wang, it's settled then It's settled. How did Hui-hui-huei's chat with Mr. Wang go? Oh, no. Don't mention it. That Mr. Wang didn't care about me at all. Don't be discouraged. If you lose your job. You can ask me to help you After all Cleaning jobs are in short supply everywhere You helped me. Why don't you trust me? Maybe you can't get a client. I'll get them easily. We'll see. We'll see. What have you done, son? Someone came to the house asking for money. What's that? - You've made a name for yourself. You've made a name for yourself. Two million dollars for Shi Zhanan. Did you spend it all on On Wen Huihui? I've told you before She's not a good person No way, mom. I've already given you the money. What do you want? I already paid you. Give it back! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's talk this over. Letting a woman borrow money for you? Shame on you! Pay back the money yourself. That's good. Wen Huihui You've hooked up with a rich man You dare to play tricks on me, don't you? What are you doing here? Did you borrow the money from me? You borrowed it from loan sharks Now they're asking me for it. You pay back the money you used. What's the problem? You did it on purpose, didn't you? This slap is For what you did to me. This slap For the feelings I wasted This slap It's for the old Hui-Hui-Huei Shi Zhan'an We are completely finished Pei's It's not your place to do whatever you want It's not a place for you to do whatever you want Wen Huuhui, are you crazy? Why did you hit him? Wen Huihui You have a rich man He's got your back You want to make me a cuckold? Wen Huihui, you're too cruel! Will you dare to seduce men in the future? You'll never seduce a man again What are you talking about? I'm not. Xu Chinglu said it You purposely seduced Her favorite boy Are you cheap? No, I'm not. Don't be like this Huuhui didn't do it on purpose Lulu, what are you talking about? Nothing I forgive you I won't let them hurt you My boyfriend and my best friend My boyfriend and my best friend are together. Who's the shameless one? You lied to me again. So you're the mistress. You want money? I can tell you a way. You want to cheat me again? Your mom has a lot of money. My mom can't be. Go back and ask her yourself. You're fired. You've finally You've finally seen the scum of the earth. In fact, I knew it all along. But I have my own plan. I saw it today I'm sorry. I'm sorry to make you laugh. You're too kind. But You're pretty good. So not only can I be a secretary I can also be a bodyguard. Mom, do you have some money? You didn't tell me? Son. What happened to your face? Don't worry about that. Do you have money? Why do you ask? Who told you that? I haven't asked you yet. What happened to the 2 million dollars? It's not mom. Why did you hide it from me? Why did you hide it from me? My stocks have dropped so much. Give me the money first I can't. That money is for my grandson. Isn't your grandson my son? Isn't it That's the right thing to do. Don't even think about it. Without my grandson I won't give you any money. Mom, are you really going to help me? How about this, son? You give me a grandchild. I'll give you the money. Otherwise, we can't talk about it. Hey, you! Son, what are you doing? Son? Is this it? It doesn't look like it. Why don't you go in and take a look? Is this it? Is this the Tianliang Group? Did you move to a new address? You're bankrupt even if you moved to a new address? How can it be bankrupt? I had an appointment with Mr. Wang today. To discuss the contract. Another one of you has been cheated by him. What do you mean? The boss owes 3.5 billion dollars. He ran away with his sister-in-law Are you sick? Why are you kicking the trash can? I just finished cleaning up. Zhan An I didn't think Tianliang would go bankrupt. But there's still money from the demolition. We'll have money after the demolition. Demolition money? Demolition, my ass. The money will go to my mom. My mom needs grandchildren. So she can give me the money. Where can I give her that? How can I give her a child? It's all because of Wen Huihui If she hadn't told me I wouldn't have known about Mr. Wang How dare you mention her? How can you compare yourself to her? How can I compare to her? She graduated from a prestigious university She has a salary and savings What are you? How can you compare to her? I'm pregnant. Pregnant? Isn't your grandson my son? Isn't it your duty to give me money? It's only natural Don't even think about it. I won't give it to you. Lulu I apologize. I was a bit impulsive. Is the baby okay? We have to protect him. Protect him. I'll protect him. Let's just lie our way out of this. As long as we have the child. Wen Huihui's everything will be Will be mine I'll take you to see my mom some day We'll tell her the good news We'll tell her Zhan An, you're finally willing to marry me I've always wanted to marry you Mom, I'm with Lulu You broke up with Wen Hui That little cutie She ran off with a rich man long ago. That girl I don't think she can do I don't think she can do anything good Mom, I have something to tell you. Lulu and I have decided to get married Married? So soon? She's pregnant. What? Get up! That's great! The Shihs finally have a daughter. That's right, Mom. That's why we should get married as soon as possible. Yes, yes, yes, we should get married as soon as possible. Don't worry, Auntie. I will honor you. You're the one who knows what's good for you. As long as you're good Give birth to my grandson Into our family You've come to enjoy your life. I'm here today I'm here to send you an invitation Zhan An and I are getting married As soon as he hears I'm pregnant. He'll marry me right away Pregnant? Mom, this is all the money I have You can't even have a baby What's wrong with using your money? Don't you have your own money? Shut up and think about my money. I'm saving it for my grandchildren. I'm saving it for my grandson. You've got a lot of nerve. There's nothing wrong with your health. It's your husband's sperm that's the problem. That's why you can't get pregnant. She's lying again. You won't be angry with me, will you? After all, you and Zhanan You've been with him for so many years But he chose me in the end I'm not angry Then you must come. Don't worry, I'll be there Marriage Yes, ma'am. Ching-Lu Tsui. She just invited Wen Huihui To go to her wedding. Can't you hurry up? How long have you been dressed? They're all waiting for you. This is too ugly It's from my mom. Our daughter-in-law She has to wear this. It saves money. Does it matter if it looks good? You better hurry up. I'll take care of the guests first. You're here. This is Zhanan's mom She's prepared a wedding dress for me They value me so much. My mom passed it down Our daughter-in-law Must wear this And it saves money. What's so important is how it looks? I know. You're feeling very sad right now. After all, Zhan An married me. You lost. Thank you. For picking up my unwanted garbage. Wen Huihui Don't force yourself to smile Everything you own Is now mine Then enjoy it Thank you Come to my son's wedding. Thank you, thank you. This way, please. Why are you here? Why don't I come? Seo Ching-lu sent me an invitation. I'd like to see it. I'd like to see the wedding of a scumbag and his mistress. What's it like? You don't really think Pei Jing Shen is going to marry you? He's a rich man He's just playing with you What are you so proud of? You still have a face to show Are you trying to seduce my son again? Auntie I know what I'm talking about Shi Zhanan's confidence Where he got it from What do you mean? Ladies and gentlemen. The wedding is about to begin. Who would like to speak first? To bless the newlyweds? Me? - Yes. As the ex-groom who got cheated on. I don't have much to offer. I'll just help the bride I'll help the bride get to know the Sze family a little better. The rules of the Sze family. Men are not allowed in the kitchen. It affects the family's luck. Daughters-in-law should remember their mothers-in-law Husband's dietary preferences Each meal should consist of six dishes and one soup The budget should be strictly limited to 15 dollars Buying things Pay strict attention to the major websites Price reductions Can not buy expensive Four Going out should be low-carbon and environmentally friendly Can not spend money within 10 kilometers Take the car Those who don't know will think that his family has He thinks his family is going to inherit the throne. He really thinks his son is the emperor. Ha ha ha! What are you doing? Then I won't read it. Take a good look. You crazy woman! Did you not marry my son? Do you regret it? You've come here on purpose to make trouble. Let me tell you something. Go to hell! I'll tell you too. I don't want to get married at all You don't want to get married? There are many women waiting in line To marry my son I'll also tell you My daughter-in-law is pregnant She's pregnant with my grandson. Then congratulations are in order Isn't this the president of Pei Group Pei Jing Shen? Why is he here? Mr. Pei is also here to attend My wedding? Pei's Group CEO Did you see him? Pei's group president All came to attend my son's wedding You count a thing ah You still think you can find a better man than my My son better man? One person to come is not afraid Yo! You're getting married. Congratulations! Should I pay my debt? I don't have any money. No money? Brother. Share money. This is our family's share. Give it to me. This is our money. Give it to me. I'll take this first I'll pay you back later You're in debt to a loan shark I borrowed the money for you You've been working with clients. Why didn't you tell me? Why should I tell you? I'll get my money back in a minute. I'll get my money back in a minute. I'm not afraid of that. Wen Huihui You did it on purpose, didn't you? What are you saying? I don't understand. Don't be too proud of yourself. We'll have money when we're relocated. Then I wish you all the best. Demolition money. You unlucky woman! For the rest of your life. You'll never find Better than my son. I'm sorry. There are plenty of men in this world Better than your son. Oh. Wish you an early child Mr. Pei sorry ah I just because I understand If not for the fact that he saved me I wouldn't be with him He saved you But now I've repaid it Don't worry, Mr. Pei I really broke off with him Very clean I'm not a love brain Will not affect the work It's important to know how to read people If you're looking for a boyfriend, you should look for one who's dedicated. Yes, you're right. Aiya girl you're too good Thank you ah thank you I'll take you home. Where do you live? I live over there. Huuhui Thank you for today. Such a big mansion. Don't mention it, Grandma. It's my pleasure. Have a seat Jing Shen What a coincidence The name is exactly the same as Mr. Pei That one It's my grandson's friend It's a gift for his birthday He gave him a Maserati My grandson does not want Can I have it? Grandma, you're back Mr. Pei Why are you here? You two know each other Grandma, I have to take this call first You two talk Grandma I'm Mr. Pei's assistant Oh Have a seat That means ah You usually Every day together, right? Yes. If I'm working, yes. Good, good, good. It's a great opportunity. I heard a long time ago Jing Shen has found a new assistant Ha-ha-ha. I didn't realize it was you. Let me tell you something. Jing Shen has never had a female assistant A female assistant. Oh! Don't worry, Grandma I don't have anything against Mr. Pei I've never had any improper thoughts about Mr. Pei I am focused on work Can have can have ah I mean You can Do not have to be so formal This people with people When you've been together for a long time It's natural. He will develop that kind of Emotions Okay Jing Shen I'll leave it to you I'm counting on you It's not a favor It's my job Grandma What are you doing here? You don't even know. This assistant of yours is really something. I was on the street today. I ran into a punk He robbed me of my bag She got it back for me Robbed? Grandma! Are you hurt? I'm fine. You should care about her. Are you okay? Don't worry, Mr. Pei I'm in good health In the future, when you encounter this kind of situation You can not force You have to call the police Wait for the police to come The thief will be long gone. You Okay, okay, okay. Don't talk about it. She's doing it for my own good. She said she's fine. It's good that she's fine Let me tell you something. You're Jing Shen brought back You're the first girl Jing Shen ever brought home Grandma, I'm the one you brought back They're all the same Right? Uh-huh. What time is it? My son is hungry. He's eating bread. I told you. Four dishes and one soup for every meal. That's all you've got. You're just trying to give me a hard time. You're giving me 15 bucks. What else do you want to eat? These two dishes are more than 15 bucks Let me tell you something. The budget is only 15 bucks per meal. It's not enough for you. I'll add a four-course meal for 15 bucks. I'll add four dishes and a soup for 15 bucks. Who does that? How many times have I told you? My son doesn't eat onions, ginger and garlic. Why did you put it in? Why does it taste so bad? Don't eat it if it's not good. How can you talk to my son? You want to rebel? Mom, I'm pregnant. I can't do this much work. What's wrong with being pregnant? You think you're a baby because you're pregnant? Whoever's pregnant doesn't have to do everything. When I was pregnant with my sons. I did everything. What's wrong? You're more valuable than me? Our family rules How many of them do you follow? Do you want to be our daughter-in-law? Daughter-in-law It's not that easy. Wen Huihui, it's all your fault. Why don't we move out? Your mom makes me do She makes me do so much work every day I can't take it anymore Let's move out. We don't have any money now. Go get a checkup Obstetrics and gynecology examination When you get the results. My mom will give me the money. I was thinking of getting pregnant after marriage. It's the same. But I haven't gotten pregnant yet. She's your mom. Can't she just give it to you? My mom said I have to see my grandson. Before she can give you the money. What can I do? If it wasn't for you being a loan shark. I wouldn't have to be here to put up with it. Is this about loan sharks? If it wasn't for you. You made me invest in that Tianliang Group I lost all my money. How can I be like this now? It's all because you wanted to make money It's all because of that Wen Huihui Don't mention her name in front of me Don't mention her name in front of me Why don't you think of something? Take back what you've lost? Mr. Pei, you gave me a raise Uh yes Increased three times Uh-huh How can this be a good thing? Then how about Thank you, Mr. Pei You must not regret ah Oh yes Is your place convenient for commuting? It's quite good and convenient That's good I'm just saying. If it's not convenient for you. I can arrange an apartment for you I can arrange an apartment for you. That's strange. Why are you so nice to me all of a sudden? Is it because You're going to use my organs to match the type, aren't you? That's what they say on TV. What's going on? Mr. Pei You don't have to be so polite You don't want to hit my waist I won't give in What waist Are you trying to Sugar-coated bombard me And then take advantage of my waist? What's going on in your head Mr. Pei There's a document that needs to be signed Out Okay, Mr. Pei Mr. Pei, what are you doing? Wen Huifu I like you What? From the first time I saw you I was unconsciously attracted to you Mr. Pei, please don't joke I am also serious Why You are the president What kind of woman do you want Can not find And you have a fiancee. Why do you want to mess with me? Fiancee? I don't have a fiancee. I don't care what you say. I don't want to be anyone's lover. Or an accessory. I just want to love myself Wen Huihui I just want to be serious To go out with you I want to be your boyfriend. In front of me You've never been an accessory I respect all your choices I just hope You can consider me without prejudice Consider me Do you really want to be my boyfriend? Uh-huh. I need to think about it. I'll give you time. I'll wait for you Mr. Pei You because of this Is that why you gave me a raise? In your eyes I am such a People who do not distinguish between public and private No, I'm not. Then you're questioning your own ability You're questioning your own abilities. No, I don't. That's right. You work so hard. This is all you deserve Mr. Pei Whether you're my boyfriend or not You're still a good boss I still prefer to be your boyfriend It's really heartwarming My leg is injured I can't walk anymore. I'm waiting for you to come back to save me Keep it and wait for me to come back Mr. Pei Mr. Ma of Tengfei Technology He'll be here soon I know Prepare to receive Tengfei Technology Sounds familiar Good Mr. Pei Remember Tengfei technology Isn't it a year later the market capitalization skyrocketed Game company? This necklace looks familiar Are we going to cooperate with Tengfei Chat? Mr. Ma should be a good A good candidate for cooperation. Why do you have this necklace? I've been wearing it since I was a little girl. The little girl at that time. I can't believe it's her. So she saved my life twice? Mr. Ma is waiting for your meeting Mr. Pei Mr. Pei Mr. Pei, this Tengfei Technology Looks reliable You'll be right to trust me This cooperation is sure Hundred percent profit What's going on? Your necklace. You mean this? How did you get this necklace? Oh, I didn't tell you. I didn't tell you. When I was a kid, I was actually Kidnapped This was given to me by the boy I was kidnapped with. The boy I was kidnapped with gave it to me. When he left, he told me He would come back to save me But I didn't wait for him. Then it was Shi Zhanan who saved me. That's why You said Shi Zhanan saved you That's what happened I guess you can't judge a person You can't judge a person just because of one thing What about you? Do you remember that boy? Of course I do. When we were locked up together. We were locked up together. We gave each other strength. That's why I wear this necklace. Necklace. Wait a minute. He's not jealous, is he? Actually. We're like comrades in arms. The kind that fights side by side. Why do you keep asking about this necklace? Huu Huu I have something to tell you Why do you have this? I'm actually that boy It's you When I got home I went into a coma Before I passed out, I asked someone to rescue you. They said that after rescuing you In order to distract the traffickers I got separated from you. So you asked someone to save me? It wasn't Sze Chin On Yes, I did. When they went looking for you again. They couldn't find you. And then I've been looking for you for years. That's why he's been lying to me. So it was you who saved me. I didn't think it would be you. I didn't expect to be attracted to you again. I was attracted to you again. When I found out You have a boyfriend I felt really bad. Then I found out he cheated on me For a moment I didn't know whether I was angry Or happy So you're angry because I didn't break up with him? Yeah, I am. You just told me I was a comrade in arms. I was. I didn't know it was you. That's why you're not a comrade-in-arms to me Pei Jing Shen I don't know when it started Every time I see you I'd be inexplicably nervous I never thought The one who saved me would be you But I'm sure now I like you I want to be your girlfriend Wait a minute. This can only be done in private Not in the office. Why not? People in the company They're always gossiping. They also know I had a fight with Shi Zhanan We had a fight in front of the door. If he knew We're together I don't know what kind of rumors will spread. All right, then. I'll do whatever you want. I was I wanted to have an office romance. Isn't that what we're doing now? We're in an office relationship? Let's go. Where are we going? To go on a date Pei Jing Shen, do you believe me? Why are you so sure? Uh-huh He'll be there tomorrow at 12 noon You're really a genius How much money did you make for the company? I told you that program was profitable. Here's my bank card. I don't need it. I'm a rich man now. This is all my heart After all, where is love? Then I'll take it The password is your birthday. Isn't this Shi Zhan'an's house in Jian'an Village? Wen Huihu is your niece, right? What niece? I don't have a niece. Don't try to take my money. She's recently married to The president of Pei's group Living a good life As her aunt Shouldn't you find her and recognize her? What This dead girl so powerful ah I finally found you. This is a nice neighborhood. The house is so big. It's so beautiful. What are you doing here? I've been looking for you for a long time. I missed you so much. Looking for me? It wasn't you who left me You left me on the side of the road I called out to you so many times You didn't look back at me You've misunderstood me I have my reasons too Tell me what you want. I'm a little strapped for cash lately. Can you lend me some money? I knew it. You wouldn't come to see me if there was nothing wrong. I'm just an office worker. What money can I have? I heard you've got a rich boyfriend. You've found a rich boyfriend. Who told you that? Huuhui No matter what, we're still cousins We're still aunt and nephew Just let me know Just let me have some I don't care if I'm rich or not. Even if I am rich. Why should I give it to you? Your mom and dad died a long time ago. If it wasn't for me I fed you a bowl of congee You would have starved to death You ungrateful bastard! Moral kidnapping, right? I don't want to do that anymore I don't want much, Hui-Hui-Hui-Hui-Hui-Hui-Hui-Hui-Shi I want half a million dollars Or else tonight I won't leave. What are you doing? What are you doing? You little cutie! You ungrateful thing Come and see! Do you know Wen Huihui? That heartless thing! She doesn't even care about her own aunt! Do you know her? I'm so angry! What are you doing here? If you don't give me the money. I came to ask your man for it. This is a company. It's not a place for you to mess around. Get up. If you don't leave, I'll call the police. What happened You are Mr. Pei ah I'm Huuhui's real aunt You are the aunt who abandoned her You're the aunt who abandoned her when she was a child I raised Huihui-kun since she was a child I didn't get the credit, but I did get the hard work But what happened? She didn't care about me She doesn't even give me money to live on I can't go on with my life I can't go on with my life. What do you want? She won't give me money. As her man. How to give me living expenses I'm sorry, Mr. Pei I've caused you trouble I now take her away Aiya It's not fair! You quickly look ah My niece is beating up my aunt! Who are you? In front of Pei's gate You are the new assistant, right? How to deal with Make a mess Security guards took them away Isn't this Yao's daughter Yao Baixue? Jing Shen. Why didn't you pick me up? What are you doing here? I missed you. I came back on purpose Let me introduce you I'm Jing Shen's fiancee You're Assistant Wen, right? Hello, Ms. Yao I have something to do, I have to go now Yao Baixue Don't talk nonsense here Have you been telling people That you and Jing Shen are together? Ms. Yao, who saw that? I'm talking nonsense to others Otherwise your aunt Would come to the office Even if Assistant Wen Had said such things I wouldn't mind. How can you think like that? Jing Shen is in it for the money That's why she's with you Otherwise, why would she Why else would she come to the office? Ms. Yao is right I was with Mr. Pei for money And Mr. Pei together You see She is for money That's why she's with you Now this world Who is not for money I work for Mr. Pei The money I get Is my deserved salary Right, Mr. Pei? Right Grandma, what are you doing here? Slowly Long time no see I've missed you I thought it's good that Jing Shen is here too We thought we'd get together And then we ran into Assistant Wen's family matter. It's come to the office. Huuhui Are you okay? Grandma! Yes, I'm fine. You don't deserve to be called Grandma. Snowy! I told her to call her that. Grandma, you don't know. She doesn't even care about her own aunt. She doesn't even care about her own aunt. She did it for the money. To be with Jing Shen Grandma, don't listen to her I'll explain later Huuhui Grandma believes in you Whenever you're in trouble You must tell Grandma. Yes, Grandma. Grandma I haven't been back for a long time I wanted to have dinner with Jing Shen Jing Shen and Xiao Huo They're both very busy Let's not disturb them Look at the way I'm dressed today I've dressed up just to keep you company But Don't be silly. You're looking down on me, aren't you? No, no, no. Then it's good to go. You're not mad at me? You're not mad, are you? What's there to be angry about? I'm not. Why is Grandma She's so nice to me. She doesn't know We're together, right? We're in love. It's such a shame. I'm just not used to it. I'm just not used to having too many people watching me fall in love. Okay, fine. Let's not talk about it. What about Yao Baixue? And what about the child marriage? Are you jealous? No, I'm not. You're finally jealous of me. So what's going on? What about our families? We're old friends. We used to play together when we were kids. When I grew up I immediately withdrew from the marriage But she always took it seriously She always thought of herself as her fiancee. Then why did you withdraw? Isn't she pretty? She's also very good. Because I don't like her. No matter how good-looking she is. I'm not interested in her. And I met you. In my eyes You're the best The best looking one. What about me? I only like you. Good, I believe you. I also only like you one Mr. Pei you told me last time I have to go first I You better have something important That's good It was last weekend You said you wanted to buy a gift for the assistant. Did you get it? The necklace. It's a custom-made necklace. It won't arrive until next week. It's a beautiful necklace. I knew it King remembered my birthday He went shopping with me I don't have time I have to work Even if I don't work I'm not obliged to go shopping with you You're not my fiancee. I'd have given up the marriage long ago I don't want to hear you say that. If you don't want to go shopping with me I'll go shopping by myself You remembered to buy me a birthday present I don't believe you don't have me in your heart Where did you get this necklace? I'm sorry, Ms. Yao I'm afraid I'm not obliged I'm afraid I'm not obligated to tell you Did you ask Jing Shen for it? I don't understand what you're saying I've got work to do, so I'll leave now Didn't I tell you? Don't come to my office without permission Where's my birthday present? Your birthday? Ask Mr. Chen to buy it for you. You forgot my birthday? What about the necklace? The necklace? That's not for you You gave it to Wen Huihui, didn't you? That has nothing to do with you. If you want to buy something? Go see Mr. Chen. If you don't, then leave Wen Huihui is a bad person. Don't try to steal Jing Shen from me Madam is here Hurry up! How are you, madam? You're here to see your granddaughter You're looking for your granddaughter? Do you need me to help you look for her? Pei is always in the rest room Huuhui Why haven't you Why haven't you come home for dinner lately? Grandma, I've been a bit busy lately You have to take care of your health even if you're busy Let's go Let's go find Jing Shen What's going on? Is it possible that Wen Huuhui Is the old lady's granddaughter No wonder Mr. Pei is so nice to her I have to tell everyone Grandma why are you here I came to give you a hand I have to come again ah I do not know you so I don't know how long you've been dragging this out. Do you like her? You have to tell her. You don't dare to say it. Aren't you afraid that she She'll be chased away by someone else. Grandma! Hui-Huei Grandma told him the truth for him Actually We're already together I'm sorry, Grandma That's great! We didn't tell you. Okay, okay, okay. It's good that we're together. We didn't tell you. We didn't say anything because we didn't want it to look bad at work. What's not to like? Who'd dare say anything? Grandma. I respect Hui-Huei She can go public whenever she wants. Fine, as long as you're happy Hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-huai I see you like this. I bought you some more. Have some more. Huuhui, are you thirsty? Have some coffee I made it for you myself What's so strange all of a sudden? Why did you come to my company? What do you want? I don't want anything. I just want money. Who put you up to this? Nobody. I just want the money. Who is it? A woman named Xu. She called me. Don't bother Hui-Huei again. It's you again. You're my best friend. Spending so much money on treatment. It's better to end the pain sooner. Let's use your life In exchange for my happiness with Zhanan. You can't even give birth to a child What's wrong with using your money? Wash your clothes first Come and sweep the floor first Since you're holding on to me Then don't blame me for not being polite Mr. Pei, you're looking for me Uh-huh I'll leave this project to you Shi Zhanan wants to demolish the house, right? Then we'll do what you want Mom Look, our house is going to be demolished That's great! It's finally going to be demolished! That's great! Hmph! You're lucky Married to our family You don't have to do anything. You can be a rich man. Mom's right. I'm lucky Let's see who dares to bully me from now on. When I get this money. I'll make those loan sharks. Kneel down and beg for forgiveness. Grandma, have some tea. Snow. I know you love Jing Shen. But Jing Shen only has Hu Hui in his heart. But Jing Shen only has Hu Hui in his heart. What about you? Don't keep it in your heart anymore. Think about it Grandma. Even you are on her side Jing Shen loves Hui-Hui-Hu. What should we do? We grew up together We grew up together Why can't we be together? This Snow. There's no such thing as love. There's no such thing as first or last. Besides Huuhui has been a great help to Jing Shen in his work. She's been a big help to Jing Shen's work. It's just a way to make some money You don't deserve to steal Jing Shen from me Good morning, Ms. Yao Stop the car Where's Hui-Huei? Are you here to see Hui-Huei? So you're close to Hui-Huei? She deserves it. Isn't she the CEO's sister? Who told you that? Everyone says so. That she's Pei's daughter That's why Mr. Pei and Mrs. Pei To her so good Do not listen to their nonsense ah Do something for me You command Check it out Wen Huifu and Jing Shen What kind of work are they talking about? I know I heard they're going to sign a contract with Mr. Lei of Wheat Technology Mr. Lei Do something for me What are you guys doing? What are you doing here? Go home. Come on, let's keep drinking. Bitch! Can't you go home? Let's drink together. This is a good opportunity to say I had a miscarriage. My baby. My baby? What miscarriage? You're such a loser. You can't even keep a baby! Mom, it was Zhan An who pushed me. And I'm too tired. You're too tired for what you're doing. You don't even know what you're doing. How dare you say you're tired? My son should never have married you Don't think I don't know that. You married into our family What do you mean? You just want our money. You don't want to be a young lady. Wen Huihui, it's all your fault Mr. Pei We're going to sign the contract with We're going to sign a contract with Wheat Technology But now the Internet Is full of black information about them Said they are about to go out of business Have you seen the news? Wheat Tech's stock has plummeted How did Wen Huihui find a partner? How did you know? We're signing with Mak I was just passing by when I heard it Wen Huihui You're not having an affair with Mr. Lui, are you? Go back to your home if you have nothing to do Don't talk nonsense here. No, I'm not. Isn't the signing ceremony this afternoon? I'd like to see it. Wen Huihui How to clean up this mess? Good cooperation Now it's time for reporters Free question time Mr. Pei Now wheat technology black news constantly May I ask why you insist Signed with them Are not afraid of Pei's reputation? It is said that your assistant Insisted on making this cooperation May I ask whether you are in order to win Beauty a smile Take the interests of thousands of shareholders Joking? Mr. Pei please give everyone a Reasonable explanation Everyone today in addition to the signing ceremony We also have An important thing To announce Wheat Technology Has successfully developed a New energy technology limousine Let's wait and see Wheat Technology stock price rose Mr. Pei has been working hard lately What do you want The one you gave me last time Jian'an village demolition project I made a small adjustment You adjust ah Adjust it any way you like Yes, sir. Son, son Look, the demolition notice has come down Limited, Mr. Secretary How come? Why around our home demolition Ah Why don't you demolish our house? They want to build a crematorium here. What? If we don't demolish it, we'll have to build a crematorium. If we don't demolish it, we won't get the money. What about my debt? God damn it! They didn't want to demolish our house. What kind of sin is this? It's Pei's decision Wen Huihui It must be Wen Huihuu I'll get that bitch to settle the score Do you want to teach Wen Huihui a lesson? Kill Wen Huihui I'll give you 20 million dollars Yes, 20 million dollars. Killing is a big deal. If we get caught. No problem. I can arrange all this. Why should we trust you? Fifty million dollars. 5 But murder? Deal What should we do? Why do you want me to know This kind of thing ah The world of the rich. It's so confusing and hard to understand Now the money for the demolition is gone. Your mom won't get any money either. Xu Qinglu. You're a tough guy. Don't just talk about me. Aren't you too? We all hate Wen Huihui anyway. It's a two-for-one deal. But how are we going to do it? We've never killed anyone before I remember someone. Who is it? Oh, you. Ever since you got married. I haven't seen you visit me since you got married. Didn't you want to find a rich man to marry? You want to find a rich man to marry? &quot;Let your father spend it. Do you want money? You really want to give me money? Do something for me. After the job is done. I'll pay off your gambling debts. What is it? Kill someone for me. What? Who's making so much noise this early in the morning? Can't we sleep anymore? Isn't this Wen Huihui's aunt? Why are you here? Who are you? Stop it! Stop it! This is my daughter. Your daughter is already so big! Auntie, we've finally met. Do you remember me? It's him Jing Shen, you're bleeding I'm fine Are you okay, Mr. Pei? Mr. Pei I'm fine Find out what's going on It's Mr. Pei Why are you here? I was going to your home to find you But your cell phone Security system shows that you're here I felt a little strange So I followed you here. Luckily I got here just in time. Piece of shit can't even do this right. If we don't find these two. We're all dead. Do you remember me? Yes, you do. I called you earlier. About Wen Huihui. Oh, it's you. You went to see her You took advantage of her, didn't you? Hmph! That ungrateful bitch. She didn't even think of me when she got rich. Hmph! That's the kind of person she is. She's always been selfish. She made me suffer too. But I didn't think she'd be so cruel to her own aunt. I didn't think she'd be able to do that. She didn't care about her own aunt. That's the girl. I shouldn't have kept her here in the first place. Her parents are dead. I should have strangled her right then and there. There's no point in living anyway. It's not too late now. It's not too late. You guys kill her together. I'll give you a lot of money. Not only can you pay off your gambling debts I'll even send you abroad to retire. Are you serious, yan jini? Retirement abroad. Yes, it's up to you whether you'll do it or not. I'll do it. Yanji n What's the big deal? She doesn't treat me as her Auntie Hmph. I'll take care of it. Wen Huihui I'll make your only family member I'll kill you with my own hands What do you want again? Mr. Pei We haven't found the person who hit you with the car Assistant Wen's aunt Her whereabouts have also disappeared All the clues have suddenly been cut off I want to steal everything from you Let's do it, Mr. Chin. She's lived long enough Don't worry. I'll take good care of her for you I'll help you take good care of Zhanan It must be them Shi Zhan'an and Xu Qinglu Why do you want to live again? You still won't let me go? Get out of here. Jing Shen. Huu Huu. What's wrong with you? It must be Shi Zhanan and Xu Qinglu They're the ones who told my aunt They told my aunt about my situation. We can't just sit here and wait for them to tell us what's going on. Don't worry, I'll help you. I won't let anyone hurt you. It's your fault. You said your father could kill. Now the mission has failed. What are you going to do? How do I know? My dad and Wen Huihui's aunt. I can't get in touch with them at all. I don't know where they're hiding. I shouldn't have trusted you. You're blaming me If it wasn't for your family. If it wasn't for your family. I would have agreed to kill someone. How dare you? If it wasn't for your miscarriage You're still not pregnant. I would have gotten the money already. Do we still need to kill someone? Good for you, Shi Zhanan. Now you're blaming me for not being able to get pregnant. Maybe you're the one who can't. You can't get anyone pregnant. What are you saying? I'm saying you should go to the hospital. Maybe you're the one who can't. Who are you saying can't? A lot of women want to be with me. You're saying I'm no good? What women? The girls at the karaoke bar? They're in it for the money. They'll say anything for money. Let go of me! I advise you to speak properly. Watch your mouth. When will you pay me back? I heard your house is going to be demolished. I'll pay you back soon. I'll be able to pay you back soon. Can you wait a little longer? Hurry up! The interest you've been paying. Can't last long Ms. Yao. When are you going to Finish the job? I'll find an opportunity next time If we keep delaying I don't want the money It didn't work out this time. Next time. I don't know when I'll be able to wait. Huu Huu. Thank you for coming to see me. Tell me what you want to see me about. I want to apologize to you I've been through so much. I've come to my senses. I'm not ashamed to see you. But I do have no choice. I'm at the end of my rope. You want to ask me for money? Yes, I do. I really hope You can help me once more Give me another A chance to start over I'll pay you back slowly Give me some time I'll think about it You still have the face to come to me After that thing didn't work out. What else do you want? We got a problem. What are you playing at? I don't know who sent it. But I do know this. We're in this together. We're already on the same side of the fence. When will you finish with Wen Huihui? That little cutie She dares to rob Jing Shen with me I feel bad if I don't kill her You don't want to kill her, do you? Kill that little cutie? Why do you all love her? Is it because I'm not good enough? I'm the daughter of the yao family I've never been with a rich man before. What if i'm with yao's daughter With yao's daughter. I don't know how many people would envy I might even own yao in the future. Of course Ms. Yao is the best How can Wen Huifu be better than you? I'll transfer a million dollars to you. Wen Huihui's aunt's case Once it's settled. I'll transfer you another 10 million Mr. Pei Our people have been monitoring Shi Zhanan's account And found that his account Suddenly added 1 million dollars After checking We found that the source of the account Was Ms. Yao I didn't realize that in order to deal with me. She would cooperate with Shi Zhanan To deal with me. Hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-hui-huai Don't worry I'll do you justice Don't alert the police yet. I want to take care of it myself Uh-huh As long as you need me I'm here. Here's a card. It's got money for you to start over. Money for you to start over Huuhui, thank you I never thought you'd forgive me And this I remember one year on your birthday I loved it but couldn't afford it Now I'm giving it to you as a souvenir Huuhui, do you remember? I'm leaving now. Yao Baixue. Find a way to make Xu Qinglu See this video Don't reveal your identity Understand Mr. Pei Yao Baixue It's actually Yao Baixue Hmph Shi Zhanan You want to divorce me for her? Is that so? Great! Why are you looking for me? After that incident. We have nothing more to do with each other. Nothing? You don't think I came to you I didn't do anything to prepare you, did I? What do you mean? My dad disappeared after that. Don't you want to know where he is? What do you want? A billion dollars. I think you're out of your mind. Hmph. Ms. Yao. You don't even have a billion dollars, do you? She won't pay even if she does. Then you'll be on the hot seat. I want to see 1 billion dollars in 3 days. How dare you and Xu Qinglu You and Xu Qinglu set me up. What are you talking about? You're still pretending? She said she has She said she has evidence of my murder. She wants a billion dollars from me. Or she'll expose me. I really don't know I need to know why I'm here. She only gave me three days. What are you going to do? Seo Ching-lu is such a sweetie. She's crazy. Do you remember this place? I saved you here. Huu Huu. It's good to have you. What's the matter? What happened? Mr. Chen found your aunt He sent her to the police station. Yes, sir. I've decided to kill Ching-Lu Tsui. Then you're no longer a threat. After all, she's your wife. Do you want to give up? I already have you. What do I need her for? What do you want to do? Accidental death contract You're still smart. We've taken care of her. And you got the money. That's two birds with one stone. When she dies. One billion dollars of insurance money. Who is it? Who is it? Who's this? Why are you here? You can't come in if you're not you. I was right to follow you. I caught you, didn't I? Yao Baixue. You shameless bitch! Who are you yelling at? You pushed me for her! I married you I've never had a good life I stayed home all day to take care of your mom. You promised to demolish the house, but you didn't Do you have a conscience? Shi Zhanan How dare you try to kill me To cheat the insurance money Bastard! Get rid of her as soon as possible And about Wen Huihui Got it! Help! Don't yell. There's no one here. You can't scream your lungs out. No one will come to save you. Shi Zhanan, you heartless bastard! I shouldn't have married you in the first place. You've forgotten You're the one who's pregnant with my child You had to marry me When I told you to get a divorce I told you to get a divorce. Then you wouldn't be like this. Since you don't listen to me Don't make me do it. Do you really think you're a treasure? If it wasn't to get back at Wen Huihui I wouldn't have fallen for you. You have no money and no ability. All you do is whine and complain. What are you talking about? You don't really think I'm pregnant? I'm telling you. I've never been pregnant. Don't you know you can't do it? Where did you get the confidence? You're not pregnant. Yes, I am. I lied to you. Hey, sweetie. I'll shut you up right now! Huuhu, how could you? Surprised? I learned self-defense just for you Why? Why have you always been better than me? You've always been better than me You've always gotten more attention than me. You're just an orphan. You have nothing. Why is it that everyone Why does everyone only see you? Because I've been working hard And you've been complaining So you deliberately set me up To seduce Shi Zhanan To make me suffer Everything that belongs to you. Isn't that what you wanted? What you wanted? Didn't you take the initiative Did you take the initiative to grab it? Why should he? He's lucky to have me. The whole family bullied me. They even tortured me He deserves to die. You're the one who likes to blame others. You always blame others for your faults. Have you ever thought You're the one who deserves it. You deserve it. It's your fault. It's all your fault! Go to hell! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! The police are here. It's all over. Send me a car. Book the fastest flight out of Sea City. Yao Baixue? Recognize this man? Come with us. Hello. Here's my ID. How's he doing? If he doesn't wake up. He'll probably be a vegetable for the rest of his life. He'll be a vegetable for the rest of his life. We know the suspect has been Under our control. We'll send someone to monitor him. My son How could your life be so miserable? You ran into that bad guy He made you suffer like this. My son. Who are you, my son? Huuhui Let me tell you something Grandma, what are you doing here? I heard you had a fight with Jing Shen had a fight It must be Jing Shen's fault I'll teach him a lesson Don't be so mean to him It's not that Grandma Jing-Shen is nice It's my fault What's so good about him? If he's good Would you have refused his proposal? Why don't you want to marry Jing Shen? It's been a long time coming You have to know how much he loves you How much he loves you It's me who doesn't want to get married Do you think It's too soon to get married We can get married first You see? Grandma, I have something to do. I have to go now. Take your time. Hui-Huei What's going on with you two? Maybe She doesn't like me that much In my past life, when I was checked for breast cancer. I was already in the late stages. Is it going to happen again in this life? I mustn't drag King Sham into this I mustn't Tell me, doctor. I can accept it This is yours There's nothing wrong with you You're in perfect health. Are you sure you're right? No, I'm not. The test results show that you're in good health. You're in perfect health. But why do I always feel My chest hurts a little. Is it my period coming up? But I've been having it For two or three months in a row. It's normal. But you young people You have to take care of your health. You can't work so hard for your job. I really don't have breast cancer. You don't have breast cancer? It's probably due to Long-term bad mood Like anger, depression. Anxiety. What about you? You're usually quite happy. And the test report? There's nothing wrong with you. Don't worry. It seems that the cancer in your past life It's because of Shi Zhanan's family. And Xu Qinglu. Now that they're not angry with me. I'm in good health. Hui-Huei. What's wrong with you? Are you hiding something from me? Are you hiding something from me? Nothing, nothing at all Then why did you come to the hospital? Why have you been acting Why have you been acting so strange lately? Why don't you just tell me what's going on? Are you sick? I'm really fine. I thought I was sick. I thought I was sick. So I came for a checkup. But you see, there's nothing wrong. That's great. Oh, yeah. So, uh. You've been avoiding me lately. It's because You think you're sick. You can not do this in the future Yes, Mr. Pei Good morning, Mr. Wen This is our The latest weekly report I'll bring it to your office later Take a look Yes, sir. I've always been on the wrong side of the fence. This time I'm finally on the right side. Yes! I didn't love myself enough in my past life. God has given me a A chance to start over So that I can live for myself This is probably That's the meaning of life, right? Mommy! Mommy! Come on! It's not too late. Spend some time with your husband And your children. Mr. Wen. I'm coming! May you all meet What your heart desires. A lifetime of happiness.