I want to share with you today briefly on what is an invisible power that is released in prayer that happen in the spirit realm when you pray and one is prayer actually releases God's angels. God or invites God. God comes. And thirdly is let me repeat that again. Prayer in the spirit That's the first thing that happens when you prayer or because of prayer are actually brought in just a moment. Secondly when you pray, God is back when you pray. Come on. Those of you who are prayer challenge, drop word 'prayer' in the chat. the first thought how angels come when you pray. the chat. Prayer brings angelic assistance. Daniel angel Gabriel was sent to give him understanding immediate angelic assistance. Acts 12: 5 and response, an angel was sent by God to rescue him brings angelic assistance. We don't pray to by the power of the Holy Spirit but the Father brings angels or angels bring answers to prayer. I want to highlight about angelic assistance is in the chat. Prayer activates angelic protection. angels charge over you, To keep you in all your Lest you dash your foot against a stone. See, when because Psalm 91 starts with, He who dwells in of the Almighty. And then it says, He shall give angelic protection. It activates the promise of and God opened the eyes of his servant to see the God's angelic army was protecting Elisha and the spirit realm, when you pray, angels come. activates angelic protection. The other part is Drop this in the chat. Prayer releases angels to command angels to fight battles. I don't mean that Daniel's prayers led to the dispatch of an angel, answer to Daniel's prayers. So it wasn't that prayed and the Lord who is the commander of soldiers in the Lord's army are angels. The Lord of Persia. My personal preference and I stand like me because I say this. But I don't believe I believe you should be fighting in prayer and to fight principalities if they are the ones were given explicit specific instruction snakes and demons that are on the ground. in a sense in the heavenlies. You're seated in the them by commanding them out. You don't command Lord but you wouldn't want to command angels of and the angels work for Him. Angels respond to Him and they will aid you in spiritual battle against The prayers of the saints are offered up with that impact the earth. So if you read Revelation, and guess who brings and collects these prayers, activated that some shape and form impacts you cause the Lord to release angels to fight prayer does in the spirit realm in how angels this in the chat. Prayer brings messages from Prayer brings messages from God through angels. angel Gabriel appeared to him with the message prays and the Lord brings an answer through brings messages from God through angels. Now, does No. But does God bring them through angels? Yes. the Angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon bringing can lead to angelic messengers delivering messengers. They carry messages from God. So prayer. So what you do is you pray and then physically. Sometimes, He sends those angels that they were carrying those messages from God but it attracts God's angels. Again, we don't pray to I can ask the Father to send legions of angels. He Jesus is God. So we pray to the Father in Jesus pray to Mary. We don't pray to saints nor do we to protect us, to bring answers, to assist us and are involved in prayer. Prayer invokes angelic that again. Maybe drop this in the chat. Prayer Genesis 24:7 says the following how Abraham and prayed for success in finding a wife for Isaac demonstrating how prayer can bring about divine are some of you watching right now and maybe you maybe you're believing for God to bring you of these days, I'm going to do a whole stream on look at this story, you will see how Abraham angel involved if I could use the word, how was he to God. The servant didn't pray to an angel. The not pray to saints. The servant prayed to God of on this journey and the angel came and he arranged and this servant found Rebekah for Isaac. This Angels want to assist you but angels assist those and they do have open doors when we sin. Demons resist us? Well first of all, it's their nature to sin. But when you pray, God sends His angels moments of your life, in finding the right place in finding deals, connections, ministry of God's grace but they won't have that if said. He said one of the greatest tragedies of Wow. Drop this in the chat. The greatest tragedy When you don't pray, God's angels are not and God responds to your prayer. And Jentezen angels line up at heaven's unemployment office are attracted to the place of prayer. Oh come attracted to the place of prayer. In Acts 12:5 and an angel came and touched him. When Peter angel's touch and he was freed. End of quote. So God's angels. Angels are attracted to the place of come. God releases them to provide assistance. releases them to fight principalities. sends them to intervene in critical moments of resistance but when you pray, you Oh come on somebody. Drop this in the chat. Many of us have experienced demonic resistance assistance. I don't want to only all I'm going to experience if I of Satan is real. The kingdom of demons Satan is not going to be helping me. Satan is experience struggle, setback. That's normal. But when you pray, you experience assistance. When mean resistance, not just normal resistance, pray, you'll experience angelic assistance. If you prayer because God sends angels as a response people's lives who pray, you will notice that realm. Who helps them?Angels. And God sends His somebody, if this is fueling your prayer already, logging in and tuning in, would you help me and I'm about to share. Point 2 and 3. Share this with like if you're just logging in because this is the second thing that happens in the spirit realm Number two, God comes. God comes. Let me tell you prayer invites God's presence. So angels come, God presence. You know that's really good when angels when the boss comes not just an angel but God's go to a place of work or you're going to a place helping you and then you have the main you know control of the situation who can make decisions and it changes the dynamic you know the ministry busyness of schedule, most people cannot have a one of the people that either work for me and then of the busyness and I'm not omnipresent and so our not like us. Everybody can have access to Him and to help but prayer invites His presence. The to share something with you about the presence you. It is not God's existence that transforms existence is the reason why you're alive but you know how I know that because look God are transformed by His sheer existence. Nobody's. of the fact that He's present everywhere aren't is you being close to Him, He being close to you father and he exists but you've never met him like but you're not changed, provided, loved, affirmed, because he exists. It's the presence of your father and that's why what we have today is we exist but fathers who are not present. Let me say you. The existence of your father does not. In present, it deeply wounds and hurts you. That's they never experience His presence, they're broken restoration, forgiveness, peace, protection, Only His presence and guess what brings the presence. Jeremiah 29:12 and 13 it says, Then you will listen to you. And you will seek Me and find See prayer brings God closer. Let me correct it's that prayer makes you aware of His closeness. Prayer doesn't make God love you. Prayer opens you not make God love you. Prayer makes you aware closer because He lives in us by the Holy Spirit. Remember when Jacob fell asleep and he woke up the latter of heaven and I didn't even know it. love. So in the spirit realm, angels come when pray because prayer invites God's presence. God comes. Drop this in the chat. Prayer brings divine intervention. Isaiah 64:1 and 2 it says, would come down! That the mountains might shake our situation with power. Let the person above our situation with power, dunamis power but prayer as Daniel prayed, the angel came with immediate prayer brought direct response from God leading to Prayer releases God's power, James 5:16, the much. Prayer releases God's power to accomplish the place where they were assembled together Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with through 38, Elijah's prayer brought down fire a dramatic way. The book of Acts 16 verse 25-26, causing the earthquake that open the prison doors, intervention. So when I pray in the spirit realm, realm, God's presence comes. I become more aware heavens get opened. God begins to bring answers glory. You got to pray. Somebody drop this in the to see a shift in the spirit realm and last thing and that is this. The enemy flees. So angels come, I'm talking about not your physical enemies. in prayer in the spirit realm, angels come, God little bit deeper. Prayer is a weapon of spiritual of spiritual warfare. Ephesians 6:10-18, The armor in spiritual warfare. Prayer is described as the armor. You see the shield, the helmet. You see the see the breastplate and then at the end Paul talks piece to prayer because I believe that prayer The Bible in 2 Corinthians 10:4 it says, For the in God. Prayer is a powerful spiritual weapon. the enemy. James 4:7 it says, Submit yourself to Through prayer, we resist the devil causing him to us being positioned under God's protection penetrate. One of the places that this happens is the secret place you come under a protection, it enemy's power. Luke 10:19 it says, I give you the and over all the power of the enemy. See prayer the enemy. Our authority comes from our identity that authority, activates that authority. Psalm for the battle; You have subdued under me those subdue the enemy. Prayer confounds the enemy's Peter's miraculous escape from prison happened We see Daniel's prayer led to angelic intervention the enemy's resistance. So prayer has this God employs His angels. We see this all throughout don't pray to angels but as an answer to our it invites God's presence. In His presence is presence is peace. In His presence is guidance. In His presence is your shield. In the presence you are strengthened. Lo I am with you always distinguishes, changes you. The existence of God why you will be joyful, thriving, forgiven, not that prayer brings God's presence as much because it is the blood of Jesus that makes God to us. We draw near to Him but in reality He's His closeness and His nearness and that happens is this is that prayer pushes back against subdues His power. It brings God's intervention, so why don't you pray? Why don't you pray in language? Why don't you pray more? You know I a whole chapter to prayer, a whole chapter to believe that prayer also fuels our spiritual that book pre-ordered, make sure you go to because it will add some fire to your prayer mentioned. I talked about angelic. I talk about how it helps you to conquer things. Such to pray. It shifts things in the spirit. The presence becomes near and the enemy flees. Have experience assistance. Have you been experienced that. Have you been experienced like the enemy is that. Check your prayer life. Check your prayer committed sins and that's why your heart gotten and that's why your heart is distant. Repent life that Jesus isn't pleased with that, get assistance from God through His angelic and very reasons to consecrate yourself to prayer and some time to fast and some of you watching would week and fast to strengthen your prayer. Because could strengthen your prayer is a little bit of prayer. And what fasting is, is you just stopping prayer. And during this prayer challenge the to do this monthly fastings but to start to strengthen my prayer life. Get back to where with the Lord, it wasn't super complicated. going to school, to go to my prayer room and abstaining from food for one day and that was a ritual. It was normal. It was habitual and I the Lord doesn't just want us to have yesterday's a prayer life that's strong today. Do the first and God's blessing. Amen. Let's take a moment want to pray with you that the Lord is going to God in the name of Jesus, I thank you for every listening to this down the road on the podcast in Help us in our prayer, strengthen our prayer are listening right now and they are under been asking Lord I want to see change. I God and I ask you that their prayer life will intervention in their relationship, finances the secret place. I pray for those that are under Almighty. Dispatch your angels Father who will in their life in Jesus name. I pray for those distant, disconnected, they feel cold. Lord I pray of love. Let them melt, be submerged in your Quicken our hearts to love Jesus. Holy Spirit more to us. Convict us of our sin. Guide our enemy by dwelling in the secret place mountain to move, by trampling over I pray for my brothers and my sisters. I pray have arrived. All of us are in the journey of May we know the Father. May we love the Son and the spirit realm be changed over our life because Thank you Lord. Thank you Jesus. I want to invite to invite you to pre-order my book called &quot;Build you can click pre-order or you can click 'notify charge on September 10th. I know some of you, you to you a free book. You can download it for free a physical copy. I want you to go to either Amazon to savchukstore.com and right there, just hit be notified with the moment it becomes available, life. I believe this will add fuel to your fire care a lot less about that but this message that time and when I preached it in many places, two years, I've been writing it and put it into for this book is only one. My prayer isn't for one that God will use this book to light a fire passion. That's my prayer and that's why I wrote charge. The moment it gets released for people all my courses which brings me to the point of, if to bless, this ministry has been a blessing to you I love what God is doing through this ministry. your content free of charge. You have your courses books to other nations, they cannot afford it want to get behind that, I want to support that in Even if you're listening to this on a podcast down and these messages and this ministry impacted ministry or giving financially so that further for the glory of God. Thank you so much.