- There's evidence that the lush, well-vegetated. How did that ever happen? - Why do we have this huge of particularly large You say, the Bible contains to the mystery of the Ice Age through the form of Noah's Flood. - Once you understand the Flood, it explains a lot of things. Plus it helps people to see that the Bible works in that way. And so you can trust what - Tas, you are a geologist with CMI. You've studied ice age and you say the Bible contains to the mystery of the Ice Age through the form of Noah's Flood. Now, first of all, what's - Well, the mystery of the Ice Age is how the ice age ever came about. And when you think about it, we are actually living in an ice age now. Some 10% of the Earth's in the glaciers, up in the mountains, and across, you know, flatter landforms and large islands like Greenland. So there's ice there now, and Now, the mystery is that in the past, there was a much larger area of the Earth that was covered in ice. So we're now in an ice age now, and that's what's really That's what they're referring to. They call it the Quaternary Ice Age. And it was discovered by a and he did a lot of and documentation of because when you've got and when you've got ice in as they move, they erode and they carve the rocks. And so you find very, For example, you find on which indicates that ice It doesn't always mean that, but that's one of the Also, you find distinctive valleys. They're a round U-shaped for the glaciers. Also, you find the ice will big boulders and it And then when the ice melts, And so these are called erratic boulders, and they have got boulders which don't belong where they're sitting. So that's another evidence. And the ice, what happens is the landforms and make depressions. And after the ice is melted, and they make lakes, and And so there's various, the ice pushes up rock and breaks up rock, and it forms this broken And so the glaciers have of broken rock in front of and also at the side of them. And so you've got the lateral moraines, you've got the terminal moraines. And so based on this, Louis &quot;It looks like the world was covered with a lot more ice in the past.&quot; So he did his presentation and he made his presentation And guess what? They didn't believe him. They didn't think, you know, they didn't They were not wanting to - It sounds like quite a lot of evidence. And how long ago was this and when did it get accepted that there was an Ice Age in the past? - Well, he made big so it's sort of nearly 200 But the reason why, well, a lot of scientists who would believe it? And it takes quite a bit of time for these things to be But the big issue was, well, Why would there be more ice in the past, and if they'd produced why has it melted back? What stopped it? So that was the big questions that they had about the Ice Age and their reluctance to believe what was presented to them as - First of all, what you're saying is that we're in an ice age now, or we're coming out of an So 10% of the Earth is covered more of the Earth has And the mystery is, how get covered with ice? First of all, can I ask has been covered with ice in the past? Because there's this popular idea, or when we think about the Ice Age, a lot of times we'll get in the Earth covered with but I don't think that's Is that right? - Well, the ice age we're talking about, the one that Louis Agassiz documented, the whole Earth was not covered with ice, but it covered parts of England, it covered parts of Asia, it South Africa, New Zealand, and in North America, parts of Canada, right down into the US, ice came down to the Niagara So that was covered a large area, and it extended out and So that's the mystery as to what was it, what were the conditions that caused it, and the natural go-to &quot;Well, it must have been There must have been an extensive which caused the ice to grow. And so, that's the go-to, although it sounds logical, It doesn't do it. And that's part of the mystery, the problems with the solutions it put up, that's part of the mystery that scientists have wrestled with, and it's also caused them alarm thinking about if the Ice Age what's it doing to our climate today? And they're having trouble - So, Tas, we're saying that, or you're claiming that the Bible has the answer to this problem. But first of all, can I ask, surely this problem has how did the ice get here to start with, and how did it advance Surely secular scientists and come up with some - That's exactly right. Although the puzzles have not been solved. As I mentioned, the go-to idea is that the Earth must have And so they've wrestled with ways of getting the Earth on the Earth in the past. So maybe there was a meteorite Maybe there was a supervolcano. You know, you can just sort of speculate and brainstorm on these things. Maybe there was a supervolcano. Maybe the sun was cooler in Or maybe something happened with the moon to actually change the way the temperature came on the Earth. And another idea was, well, maybe there was All these speculations that go on as to what could possibly cause it. But the problem is, that that if you're going to get an ice age, you need to cool the Earth, a drastic cooling that covers That's not really going to solve it. And I'll explain why and how the Bible actually But they have come up with which is widely accepted - And so, I think I heard of this while studying at university, there was something they talked about, the Milankovitch cycles not only the major glacial periods, but also this smaller interglacial and glacial periods as well. Is that the theory you're - Exactly right. In the 1920s and in the 1930s, there was a Serbian geophysicist who came out with this theory. It's a very sophisticated, elaborate, all sorts of bells and that explains it. And people have been very And so his idea is, that it's changes in the which are the driving So the orbital parameters are basically the shape of the orbit, the eccentricity of the orbit. So whether the orbit is round So that's one of the ideas. And that has a cycle that And that's attractive to those people who believe the Earth is very, very old. - It seems to make sense if the Earth is further away from the sun, then it should be colder, right? - Well, it is expected to be colder, but there's a caveat on But the other thing is, that of the Earth's axis, that changes, and so with higher inclination it would affect the And so that's got a cyclic It seems to be something like 40,000 years or something like that. And then, you know, a spinning top, when you have a spinning top, and it's going around like the angle of the top moves And so the inclination something every 20,000, 25,000 So this very elaborate theory, it's sort of very attractive to people. And there's so much research and simulations, computer models and that. And so that's the basic go-to model as to how ice ages occurred in the past. So it produces a cooling, and you've got the cycles producing this ice age, to those who believe in an old Earth that it's existed for eons of time. - I mean, it seems to make sense. You're going to have, if if the northern hemispheres if you've got a more eccentric orbit, then surely you're going in those areas that are colder. Does it work- Excepting that when they do the calculations, the Milankovitch cycles does it doesn't produce enough - Okay. Well, that's an issue. - That is an issue. Exactly right. And so, it's a very attractive theory. It's a great model, but So if you really like the model, do you know what happens, - What do they do- - They invent a secondary hypothesis. They add something onto So rather than saying they add something to it. And so the secondary hypothesis is, that the small changes produced is amplified by carbon dioxide. The way carbon dioxide and the way it's absorbed So the carbon dioxide that's called positive feedback. So we all know what We've experienced it, you know, in a room where there's and it gets positive feedback, it goes, you know, it - Louder and louder and louder. - Louder and louder. It deafens everybody. And so that's positive feedback. It's essentially an unstable system. So this model of the Earth's climate, it's actually produces an unstable system. And that's partly why climate that a small change in is going to cause the whole to fall off a cliff. And you've heard of the idea that we're facing an that we've only got so many years left, these sorts of things. It's all tied into this model and the unstable feedback system to try to make the - Okay. Wow. So are you saying here, Tas, that one of the reasons we're so scared about climate change now to explain the Ice Age without the Bible? - That's exactly right. And it's interesting, Noah's Flood, and we get to that, you know, get to the But after the Flood, the he said this, that there'll be sea time and harvest, summer and winter, cold and heat.&quot; In other words, there's that God has created a stable system. And we'll see, I'll explain just why it is indeed a stable system and how the evidence comes to show that and that there's really no cataclysmic alarmism that's - Okay. So you're saying that God says, &quot;I've given you a stable I'm not going to flood the world again. I'm going to give you seasons.&quot; And I guess this kind of matches 'cause the majority, although there are positive the majority of natural we see negative feedback loops, which I guess is support that, okay, things are designed so God designed things to - That's right. The system is basically stable. - Yeah. But you're saying you need a positive feedback loop. - Well, that's what they've They've got a model for how it works. And so it doesn't really produce enough so they've added this thing in. But even if it did work, even if it did produce it still wouldn't produce an ice age. That's because to produce ice, you not only need a cool And so if you just cool the Earth, basically we end up with cold deserts and not heaps of ice, not ice And so that's the second thing. And that's the other way in and Noah's Flood explains how to get water as well as, well, not but how you get the water, which is going to produce the ice. - Wow. Okay. So I want to get onto that, but just to cover what we've said so far, the issue with the Ice Age, which was that question one, the current theories, the Milankovitch cycle theory, does not get the Earth cold enough unless you include these which we're saying are unlikely because positive feedback negative feedback but secondly, there's not or enough precipitation to Is that right? So - Well, there's two and - Oh yeah. What's that? - It's not really a fatal problem, but it's a problem that And that's, you know, it's cyclical, happens over So from the uniformitarian, that what's happening in the present has happened in the past, So they would expect multiple ice age, over and over and over and over again for as long as the Earth's existed. But they identify that and retreats of the ice sheet the one that's the most recent one. But although they identify those, they don't really see much in other parts of geological history. So anytime that they sort of see scratches or they see broken rock, they But those evidences are quite different from the rocks and scratches that we see for the most recent ice age. And so that's part of the Although they do speak about something like four ice age periods. There's a couple, you know, there's one in, I think in the Cambrian, and there's one in the and then there's one in the Precambrian. It's actually the one in the Precambrian, the idea is that the whole They give it a name, it's And that creates problems for itself. But that's just a period there. And then there's another So there's these four it's a bit surprising that it seems to have such a warm period. And it's comes from misinterpreting And so the biblical history - So you're saying there's at least in the secular and one you're saying we can see on the surface all those evidence as but those other four, you're saying that that's in the sedimentary they can see scratches and so striations and things like this. But you'd say that that evidence isn't as strong as the one for the most recent one. evidence doesn't speak for itself. - Yeah, true. - You know, evidence is interpreted. And so when the geologists they see evidence of scratches, and this great big heaps of broken rock, they assume that that's an old ice age. But you can get broken rock and all this material by other processes. And from a biblical perspective, when you look at the biblical Flood, and we'll get onto that, when you look at the biblical Flood and the enormity of that catastrophe, particularly at the beginning of the Flood and how the flood waters broken rock, you end up with lots of what they call underwater avalanches. So these things occur underwater, and they get great big heaps and piles of this and they just automatically That's as a result of a glacier.&quot; It's automatically interpreted that way. And usually by young geologists, And once they've made the interpretation, people don't go back and change it. They just accept what's been So it's sort of leading which is producing things that don't work and so what happens, Mysteries. The Bible explains it. That's the amazing thing. When you start with biblical history, it just flows out of that, you don't have to add and all those sorts of things. And not only that, it gives insights to things that you'd expect. And then when you go And so, I'll talk about some of those later. want to get onto that, Tas, but first of all, I just wanted, just to clarify something You were saying there's an issue with having multiple ice because some of those ice that some of those ice ages are in layers of sedimentary rock, where you find animals or temperate environments? And so how did those Is that one of the problems - Well, that is one of the problems. - I was just trying to- but you'd find plants. - As well, which you find which are very high latitudes. So in areas which are cold today, and yet these plants are And so, how do you solve that? That's another question as well. And so the idea is that over millions of years and so the plants grew differently. But again, the biblical Ice Age, the biblical model solves that. - So the mysteries we've said so far, the big mystery is it's not cold enough, there's not enough water and moisture to bring enough ice. But there's some other but I'm sure you could comment on them. And I'm wondering if you One of them is, what even in the last ice age, the lowlands of Siberia and because they had a lot of Another one being that just talking about the last ice age, that the majority of at the end of the Ice Age, not during. And you would've thought it that they would live and flourish and, yeah, so there's a number of these other smaller mysteries. And could you comment on them before we talk about explains it. a little bit about the that will help to set the scene. But basically, what happens is, you know, when something doesn't We see that there's been which very large, greater than 40 kilograms or something, that lived in continent around the world, that died out at the end of the Ice Age. How did that happen? And there's various ideas, some say, well, they people killed them. And yet a lot of these animals died out before there were people Another one is that they called it over-ill, And that doesn't really work. Another one is, they is that the climate changed, and that one does seem to work. And that's, again, explained and by the biblical model. You see the Bible, I'll the Bible tells us about the global flood, which affected the whole of the Earth, talks about the fountains and in the rocks, and that which were We see a lot of evidence They used to call them And we got evidence for that. There's the ring of fire around the Pacific, volcanic eruptions. These occurred during the Flood. And so at the end of the Flood, after the waters had run off the land, the oceans were warmer And so a number of degrees, 10 And that's widely recognized with these ice cores that go down. It's recognized the that they were warmer in the past towards the bottom of the ice cores. And so warmer oceans, that means that there's So the evaporation produces snow and rainfall, precipitation So that produces the water. So the snow on the And so immediately after the Flood, these conditions allowed to start building up on the continents. Plus there was one other thing that was present at the end of the Flood, with the volcanic activity, there would've been a lot really high in the atmosphere and so that would prevent and reduce the amount of And so from summer to you have this ice building and it starts, of course, and then eventually comes and the ice builds up. And so one estimate by one meteorologist, the climate scientist who by Michael Oard, he estimates it would've taken something like 500 years for the ice to build up on the continents. And that's because the oceans are warm. And that has a lot of which I'll get onto. But after the ice peaked, the ocean, you know, were cooling. So once it started cooling, there was less precipitation, And so it melted back a bit about 200 years the ice had melted back to around about the And so there's a lot of features that come as a result of that. But that's a very simple model and why we see it, why it built up, and then why it melted back. And we don't have anything as far as these funny, of the Earth's orbit See, it happened quickly after the Flood, which was about 4,500 years ago, wasn't millions of years ago, the millions of years who believe in long ages because they don't believe - Okay. The Bible provides the because I guess, first of and I think was maybe presupposed there, is that the Flood was a And it produced a lot of a lot of magma coming up. There was a lot of heat And that was the thing Because that was the issue The big mystery was the amount of snow and ice. And if you've got hot seas, You've got a lot of evaporation, you've got a lot of rainfall and snow and icefall as So you've got hot seas, cold landmasses. - That's right. That's right. But the warm seas is the main thing. It doesn't take much warmth, extra warmth to greatly increase that's on the oceans. - So that's the first thing. And the other thing about you know, a lot of things to do with animals, to what - Yeah. Some of these smaller mysteries. So can you tell us about why die off after the Ice Age? - Well, first of all, why - Yeah. Well, how did they live? Yeah, you're right. and that's, you know, they have these animals living They weren't living on the ice. They were living in this And so the woolly and the climate was far more equitable. And so there was lots of vegetation. There was lots of rainfall. And so what happened was lots of water. - So this is in the middle of the Ice Age? - Yeah. As the ice age built up. So where did the animals come from? They came from Noah's Ark. So it was the elephant that some went into India, some went into Siberia. So you have this elephant It would be adapted to the but it was perfect. There were a lot of other - Yeah. So can we talk about So these are right near the And in the lowlands, I was Why was it temperate? Why did any animals live there at all? Because under the secular model where the Earth cooled and more ice, more ice came, then surely the lowlands So how does the Bible explain or known as Flood explain where you could get the woolly mammoths, the different animals living - Well, it's to do with the warm oceans. And so where the Arctic is now, there's a great big ice sheet, which is floating on the ocean. And so the ocean there but it wasn't cold at It was warm. The land around that area, on the continents would've at the end of the Ice Age. And so these animals migrated after the Flood, along that lived there. And so there was an that was there. And so that explains why they're there. That answers that mystery - Yeah. So it's the warm oceans, just to make it really clear, it's the warm oceans making a nice area to live, a whereas as you go to the of course, that's where all - That's where the ice is. And it's not just up in the but around most of the continents. And so the area was quite easy to live in, quite livable, you know, in at the end of the Flood. There's one other big consequence of this is that Earth's climate is stable. So there was a huge, you but it's a bit big for a perturbation, but a big deviation from where it is now, from its stable position. So the oceans were warmer and and the Earth returned to stability. It took 700 years, but it And so that should give confidence and it should give some to people to realize which is designed to be stable, designed for people to live in, and we shouldn't be terrified that there's going to be the edge of a cliff as So that's one great consequence - Hmm. So you're saying the recent warming that we're seeing is actually just the Earth returning to its normal stability. So maybe before the Flood, it was hotter. I mean, I've heard in the record we had greater levels of when we look at isotope ratios and things like this in the past. So before the Flood, the Earth was warmer and we are returning to that warmer state. Would that be correct? We don't have a great handle on what it was exactly Although we do know that the continents had lots of vegetation on them and which was ripped up during the Flood. But the Ice Age, the post-Flood Ice Age is a very simple consequence of the events of Noah's Flood. And it's a pity that people because it provides insights - And there was one other you said earlier was that for causing an ice age is cooler summers. And I think that's an important point because you said the way that Noah's Flood causes the cooler summers is the aerosols from the volcanoes, the aerosols that was coming up, they to have a greater albedo. So more of the sun was So it means the summer And I think that's probably a major issue in developing an ice age model is, well, okay, you get if you get precipitation then the summer just melts it off. But if you got the summer slightly cooler, and so that's another unique thing that the Noah's flood does, is it creates a slight, a cooler summer for the ice to remain. or the, you know, the So the Bible doesn't being in the atmosphere And it doesn't actually That's been pieced together by us looking at the geological evidence. But it does provide a of how long the waters took to go to rise and how the Earth came to rest and how long it took for the And when we look at the geology, we can sort of piece this together and work out where it fits. And so the Ice Age was after that. Now the secular person, they have got this long And so they say the Ice Age sort of began about 2.6 million years ago, and it lasts to about 11,000 years ago. And so they have got this but in actual fact, it It was after the Flood, about four and a half thousand years ago. And so that's the length of it, 700 years for that And since then, which the secularists, they would say 11,000, but from a biblical you know, it was less than 4,000, something like 3,000 years ago. That's when things have been stable. But there have been changes since then with the medieval warm period. And then there's a cold period, but basically, the climate is stable. There's another thing is that the Ice Age explains which occurred at the end of the Ice Age. - How does he explain them? - Well, the animals, these large animals which lived on the lands, They came from Noah's Ark. All the animals, everything that breathed The original kinds came off and then they migrated out to - And we said how they existed and they could exist even in the northern parts. They could migrate there. - But how did they die off? - Well, how did they get there? That's another question that comes about. It's probably better to deal with that one first. - How did they get there? Well, when the ice was on the continent, so you have the ice being precipitated, the ice and the snow on the continents, that means the ocean levels are lower. And so that's widely recognized that the ocean levels were lower. And there are maps of various continents. There are maps of Australia as to what the size of during the Ice Age. And they've given it a name, I think it's called Sahul And so you can see this when the ocean levels were lower. And as a matter of fact, the estimate is that it's than today's sea level. - And so that means that the land, the ocean, the land, the than it is today. And so that would've been that would've been areas to get to the ocean. So you can actually see the river courses under the ocean today since the oceans returned to its level. So with the larger area of land, that means that people So they could migrate down So you would be able to And also they could migrate into North America. So the first sort of they would've come from the ark and they would've migrated in there. So you've got Jaguars which and down into South America. So that was, you know, a that it was when the after the Flood when the ice And so that's another simple explanation that comes out so easily to explain the current as a result of what along with other things such as log mats and vegetation mats, which were the result - Yeah. Amazing. So one of the methods of the animals spreading out from Turkey, where the ark landed, when the ice was up on the continents, taking some of the water from the oceans meant the oceans were 50 meters lower, so they crossed across land bridges. A little side note, but it was interesting I wanted to ask was, you said the shorelines and so the streams now there's some of what we now some of them are very big and deep. I think they're even deeper and things like that. Does that speak of the Flood again, because was that the that caused deeper canyons there? - It speaks of the flood So rivers flowing across these areas would cut sort of channels, which are the same size as But these canyons were enormous that we see larger than And that was the waters of what a lot of people as the waters receded off the land. And we've got the as the water's receded off the land. But we come to the extinction, this massive extinction. - I'm glad you came back to that 'cause we didn't get there. - So I'll ask you that, Tas, so they got there via the land bridges, they were fine during the Ice Age because of the warm oceans making the lowlands a But why did they die off? Why do we have this huge of particularly large - They multiplied up after the Flood. So there were lots and and we find the remains of them, I suppose you could call them fossils, but they're not really fossilized. But we find the remains of them, skulls of them, bones of them, on all the continents, but that's not a continent, but on Africa and then, you know, in that sort of thing. During the Ice Age, the for animals to multiply and live. You know, so you've got a climate that doesn't vary much You have lots of precipitation, we talked about that. And so you've got lots of so there's plenty for them to drink. - Can you just explain why from like summer and winter as much now as it did in the Ice Age? - Because the oceans are warmer. The oceans were warmer and so there's not as wide as there is today. - You have a great heat and so that warm ocean would prevent the depths of the summer and winter occurring. And the basic crux of it is for animals to live and multiply and grow. And there's some very, very But as the ice age progressed and as we get through the climate starts to change. The oceans cool. And so you start to between summer and winter. And so that's one thing that occurs. You get less precipitation, so you get more droughts which occur. And it also affects with the you get a lot more wind. So there's a lot more dust blown around. And we find that in north in the Siberia and that where these woolly Same sort of thing that the dust bowl they called it, when there was a lot of and buried the houses, So there's a lot more and the winds and the dryness means there'd be a lot more fires. And so it was really not that good for these animals to live there. And so they died out, a lot of them died, a lot of extinction of and it occurred on every continent And so that's a very, for this massive extinction that occurred. Plus there's something else that ties in with this is believe in multiple ice ages. So in this ice age, they say to 11,000 years. - That's the most recent one. They've got multiple ice ages which occur and they recognize this extinction, but it only occurs after the last ice age. - Yeah. So why didn't it - Why didn't it happen And that's because it was The climate was different as the ice was building. And these so-called multiple you know, ice advancing, ice retreating, but basically, a continual And it was only after the ice age peaked, the last, you know, the it's only after that where the and the animals went extinct. So over-chill is a good rather than being killed - Over-chill. So it actually got- - Change of climate. - So the climate changed. So coming out of the Is that right? - It got, well, it was more extreme. It was colder, coming out of the Ice Age and it was hotter in the summer. So the climate, there was - Right, I see. Okay. Because it seems almost counterintuitive that there was an over-chill but you're saying because variations in winter and summer, that was not as good for a So generally, I think what during the Ice Age, it was a for animals at least. Maybe for humans as well. And it is a good time to be alive. It's a temperate environment. And so that's really not what we. Just going back to my thought was earlier that the ice ages, people often or like this Earth covered in snow. But of course, you said that's not the most recent That's a previous ice age. - Now you mentioned there And could you just expand on that? If the Earth really was covered in snow, and I'm guessing it's something the albedo of the Earth at that point? - Well, it supposedly This one. And I want get back to just talking about the and some of the conditions. - No. We'll talk about - Okay, okay. And then go back- - So they call it Snowball Earth when the whole Earth And so that means there's a And so the question is, if you do get the Earth covered with snow and so they create this how are you ever going to stop it? - Get it out? Right. - Because you can't get the And so that's the problem. - So that would be a positive - Well, it's sort of set in ice. It's set in ice. But also the other thing that is that, you know, evolution - Yes. How do you get animals alive on an ice? And so you've got these which have just evolved and then you cover the - You gotta start again. So that's the other problem is how do you explain evolution - And how old did you say - It goes back before the Cambrian- - Precambrian. about 600 million years ago in their thinking. But it didn't ever happened. - Yeah. Well, there's a isn't there? Sorry, I interrupted you. So you were saying the is because the Ice Age was actually a really nice environment for them to live in. - And the environment changed. And I was pointing out, gosh, like, it seems like a mind shift to think that the Ice Age is But part of that is just understanding the Earth wasn't fully covered - Yeah. It was a great environment to live in. were the place to live. - And that creates because there's evidence which is a desert, was once green, lush, well-vegetated. How did that ever happen? Well, of course, you know, the early part of the with great precipitation. And so that explains the green deserts that are around in the past. Plus there are lakes, almost dried out, which they were full of water And so they've dried out as a result of the end of the Ice Age and the reduction in precipitation. So there's a lot of which are puzzles, and for people who are they're trying to figure out and how can we avoid it in the future. You'll never solve these problems if you don't really know what happened and you don't really and the effects of the changing climate immediately after the Flood and why it's different from today. You really need to take account of that. - Wow. So that's amazing 'cause I've seen that in the Sahara Desert when they've taken satellite images, they can see drainage basins. So they understand this and there's a lot of lakes as you're saying. I think what you're telling me, Tas, is that the only way to explain those lakes existing in the past is if there was a higher and rainfall in those areas less close to the pole, that and that's explained by the - That's exactly right. So you can see the Ice Age, it's a big multifaceted topic, isn't it? It covers so many things and it illustrates just the between those secular scientists who don't believe that the They don't believe the They think they can piece it together by looking at the rocks and then coming up with these about what might have happened. It's sort of brainstorming But once you understand the Flood, it explains a lot of things. It's such a contrast to what and what we hear in the media today. And so the global flood to understanding that. Plus, it helps people to see that the Bible works in that way. So it's reliable, it's trustworthy, and so you can trust what You can trust the geology, you can trust the ice age geology and all that sort of thing. And so then you can trust what and about human nature and and the world to be redeemed. So it provides us with hope rather than this other speculation, which is the idea of fear and panic that we're going to fall off a cliff, you know, because the cows and that, you know, we've got too many So it's a great, great way. I think understanding the Ice Age, it just provides so much and gives ideas as to things to explore and it actually works. - Yeah, it's really exciting, Tas, to see that some of these mysteries, and I'm glad you explained some of these mysteries are solved, some of these earth science with the biblical history. And what you're explaining there is, well, if we can see the biblical history matches with the physical world, then that gives us a greater And so if we see that's the then maybe it's also the truth or we know it's also the - And salvation. - And salvation. Yeah. Because we understand that we've fallen, we understand that our morals don't meet the morals of God and then that's why we need Jesus. So the Ice Age can point to Jesus. - It's amazing, isn't it? The Flood solves it, - Tas, thanks a lot for your time today and explaining to us the and how it's solved by specifically the biblical flood. - Been great to talk with you, Scott. - Thanks, Tas.