Psychiatrist Harleen Quinzel (aka Harley Quinn) Is the Joker's best gal, but just how has she evolved since her debut? Let's go through her most notable First appearing in Batman: The Animated Series, Harley wears her signature red and black gesture outfit, With added diamond pattern and a white collar and cuffs. She also sports face paints a black eye mask and pom-pommed hood, When elderly she is also seen having In the live-action series, Birds of Prey, Harley eventually sports a red turtleneck with a chest window, Black capri pants and an added skirt She has the power of hypnosis, but because of low viewership, this series In the 2004 animated Batman series, Harley is a former tv psychologist. She wears her jester outfit but it lacks the diamond pattern and cuffs, Her collar is pointier, her headdress larger and her pupils are no longer visible when wearing her mask. Making her creepy looking enough to match this series, monstrous joker. In the Brave and the Bold, Harley Quinn is desaturated gray and wears a black dress ensemble with a feathered headdress. Although in the follow up she wears prison attire and is re-colorized to face off against Scoob and Shaggy. Assault on Arkham's Harley maintains her traditional look, but ditches the white accents, Opens up her midriff, shortens her sleeves, and adds a loose-hanging belt and black boots. A lingerie wearing Harley is featured in A belly button ring, a fully painted head that appears sewn on, And red and black dyed hair. This Harley is appropriately deranged but is no match for a vampiric Batman. In the children's cartoon, DC Super Hero Girls, teenage Harley sports a checkered top, jean shorts And her hair has blue and red highlights. Although. later iterations of the series completely change her design and have her wear her traditional jester garb. In the live-action Suicide Squad, to prove her devotion to the Joker, Harley dunks herself in a vat of chemicals, Which makes her more pale. Her main look consists of hot pants, a ripped shirt, a splattering of tattoos, With fishnet stockings, heeled sneaker boots, a red and blue jacket, As well as blue and pink dyed hair with matching makeup. She also notably wears a checkered date night dress, various prison attire, and her original jester costume. In this film, she's forced into joining some kind of Suicide Squad, to help take down a powerful sorceress. In the DC Animated Movie Universe, starting with Suicide Harley wears jean shorts, a tight corset, and a totally punk choker collar. Batman: Hush adds in elements from her gesture attire. but Apokolips War reverts back to her Hell to Pay outfit, although keeping her jester hood. Gotham features Ecco, whose most noteworthy outfits consist of a checkered jacket with a white mask, A striped hooded dress with unkempt makeup, and an eclectic gesture ensemble. But, much like the show's Joker, she isn't really Harley Quinn, so... let's keep going. Batman Ninja features a steampunk-inspired Harley with ruffled collar and cuffs, a short tied robe, and red and purple hair, along with an armored look with awesome old school weaponry. In the TMNT crossover, Harley comes into contact with ooze, turning her into a hyena-human hybrid. In her own animated series, Harley wears hot pants and a belly top with knee-high socks, And hair and makeup inspired by her live-action movie look. In her live-action Suicide Squad spin-off, Harley has shorter hair, and wears suspended shorts, and a pink sports bra, Paired with either a frilly jacket or golden jumpsuit. She also notably wears a pink pajama onesie, roller derby attire, a sparkling long shirt ensemble, a Marilyn Monroe inspired pantsuit, a femme fatale trench coat and finally, a busy blue jacket with pinstriped pants. This time around, after the Joker breaks up with her. Harley teams up with her gal pals to take down a notorious gangster. In the Suicide Squad sequel-reboot, Harley dons a combat-ready suit, complete with a leather jacket, And springy choker collar, while her hair is longer and matches her new outfit. She also wears a red dress with black boots. Together with a new Suicide Squad, she helps take on a giant alien starfish. But, there's still plenty of Harley Quinns out there, So if you'd like an animation, outlining her evolution in video games, Let us know in the comments below Thank you for watching the video, And shout-out to all the patrons for their continued support. Check out some of the other comic book evolutions and additional animations on the channel, Then click subscribe and hit the little bell to turn on all notifications, so you never miss a video