Robert Redford is one of the most iconic actors of such films as All the President's Men, Kid. As well, the actor ventured out into directing his artistic profile. Despite the immense success that Robert demands life with numerous tragedies. Join Facts Verse as we explore the devastating Audiences will likely know Robert Redford people know about the prestigious actor and Robert has been married twice during his lifetime, Sadly, two of these children have died tragic Robert shares his children with his first Robert and Lola married all the way back in shortly after, in September of 1959. The two were incredibly happy to have become Robert and Lola's first child was named Less than three months after Scott's birth, as "sudden infant death syndrome", or SIDS remains an incredibly mysterious occurrence, devastated upon finding their newborn baby Despite the fact that the event took a major persevered and managed to make their relationship After the death of Scott, Robert and Lola After Scott's death at the end of 1959, in Provo, Utah. Robert kept the death of his firstborn son that it wasn't the public's business. Robert and Lola quickly set their grief aside giving birth to their second child in 1960. Their second child was a daughter, named Shauna. Robert and Lola were understandably worried due to the experience that they had with their Thankfully, Shauna ended up growing into a Following Shauna's birth, Robert and Lola James was born in 1962. Several years later, Robert and Lola decided their family in the form of second daughter Amy was born in 1970. Robert Redford had been struggling to make caught a big break when he received the titular and the Sundance Kid. By the time of Amy's birth in 1970, Robert Following the birth of his fourth and final one of the biggest stars in Hollywood. In 1974, he had another hit starring alongside the Sundance Kid costar. That film was The Sting, and it became an outing together. Sadly, they never made another film together, In 1976, Robert starred in All the President's a dramatic star to be reckoned with in Hollywood. Several years later, the actor branched out The film was a major success, and Robert became Academy Award for Best Director for his debut The film also won many other awards, including Robert certainly came into the 1980s at the amidst his increasing fame. Robert and Lola's youngest child was entering less interested in each other than ever before. Robert was spending more and more time away and the couple eventually decided to call Still, they maintained a close friendship together. Despite the fact that Robert and Lola's one of them ended up dying a tragic death Because of this, Robert has had to watch two that no parent should have to do. If you're enjoying this video so far, be As well, subscribe to the channel if you'd Facts Verse videos are on their way! After Robert Redford and Lola Van Wagenen's to stay on terms so that they could watch amicably. Despite the fact that one of these children to make their father very proud in different Two of Robert's children even grew up in First daughter Shauna is the only of the three Robert's footsteps, but she did become a As well, she followed in her father's footsteps Although Robert has certainly been better he has always had a passion for painting, he was just a young man. While 1985 marked the year of her parent's mark the year of Shauna's marriage. Shauna married a man by the name of Eric Schlosser, Not only that, but Shauna has since given are Conor and Mica. These two grandchildren have grown to love love them very much in return. James is the second of Robert and Lola's as well as the couple's second son overall. Sadly, James is also the second of Robert However, the man went on to lead a long life James ended up following in his father's several award-winning documentary television warming, which is a topic his father is also Some of James' work includes 2017's Happening: Toxic Hot Seat. Before his recent death, James also married James married his spouse, Kyle, in 1988, and Lena. Just as with Shauna's kids, Robert has grown two children. Amy was the fourth and last of Robert and father's footsteps even more so than James. In addition to becoming a director herself, Amy made her acting debut in 1998's Dellaventura Perhaps more notably, she featured in an episode In addition to her Hollywood career, Amy also Amy's only child is shared with her partner, Previously, Amy had been married to a man 2004. Besides the films and television programs a feature film by the name of The Guitar. The Guitar premiered at Robert Redford's Amy also produced the film. Sadly, The Guitar wasn't met with incredibly to release another feature film as a director. However, she has released several short films which is titled Phoenix. October of 2020 is when James passed away, Redford has had to experience during his lifetime. James was 58 years old at the time and had with him. James had been battling liver cancer for several Kyle survived him, in addition to the two Robert Redford had celebrated his 84th birthday second and last remaining son. In addition to James, Robert's other kids, wife, joined the actor for his celebration. Robert's second wife is a woman by the name in 2009. Since Robert's role in the 2018 feature have essentially been retired. However, he did come out of retirement for the 2019 film Avengers: Endgame. Robert was reprising the role that he had Winter Soldier. Although it's possible that Robert's brief his last work on film, many close to Robert of retirement again if given the right project Nowadays, Robert Redford greatly prefers practicing in big Hollywood films. Comment down below to share if you think that or if you were saddened to learn that the death of both of his two sons. As always, like this video to show your support, if you'd like to be among the first to know way!