Joe: I lived in New York for years, and it has some of the I invited my man Harry to show him how we do things in NYC. We're visiting five of the all in one day, to see if we This is &quot;Food Tours.&quot; First stop of the day, Harry: So, we're at Bleecker Street Pizza. Joe: Yes. Joe: OK, so Tripadvisor said this is one of the best slices Food Network said this is the best slice for the past three years. I mean, come on. Place is normally just packed. We're here early, thank God, So I thought I had to take you here. Harry: I'm liking Bleecker Street so far. It's a friendly vibe in here. Very cold. I can see -- Harry: We need to get this on camera. Conner: I'm rolling. Yeah, you can see it. Can you see my breath? Harry: So, how are we categorizing the pizza places that we're hitting today? Joe: Glad you asked. Now, of different variations would consider pizza, all fantastic. For this, I want to the authentic New York Not doing the square cut, not doing the grandma cut the Sicilian grandma We're not going to Domino's. We might do some variations Joe: Yeah! Here we go. New York slice. Talk me through some key components, key elements here that I should be looking Joe: All right, so, it's going to have this thin, yet crackery but not too brittle texture to it. Now, the mozzarella they this low-moisture cheese, even though it has a greasy top on it, it kind of makes it so it and it doesn't burn as quick. This is good cheese coverage. It's full coverage when But you notice, OK, so it's It's not, like, it's Harry: Yeah, it's still Yeah, yeah. But, I mean, the thing that So you want to take a bite? Yeah, I really, really do. Joe: Can we? Get in there. Mm. Mm. Mm! Mm. It eludes the rest of the world on how to make pizza this good. It really does, right? [Harry laughing] It's distinct. This is unlike most of the There isn't really anywhere I really like the crispy crust. Again, not something you and the texture contrast Joe: Yeah. It's not very greasy. If you make a pizza at home that aren't so great, it's just grease. Harry: Well, there's nothing of grease. Fat is flavor. I'm liking it. Joe: And also, as you noticed, Like, you just take this on the train, take this down the Which, again, in the UK, I don't know if you can catch that, but Dax Shepard said this was the greatest slice Joe: And it's a weird way he said it. &quot;That was the greatest slice of pizza I've ever put in my mouth.&quot; What's he done with the I just recently found out you Really, Dax? Harry: Game changer. Joe: Thanks for swinging by. Harry: Real game changer. Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, look at the steam coming off of this. Harry: OK, that's steamy. Yeah, I don't know if the or if it's just extra cold in here. Joe: Both, baby. Let's go! Can I bite? Conner: Uh, one second. Did you get the shots, guys? Harry: Patience, Joe, patience. No! It's New York, Harry: This thing looks scaldingly hot. I'm going to wait for you to bite and see if you scald your mouth or not. OK, got the thumbs up. Joe: Right? What'd I tell The first casualty. This is delicious. Joe: I'm going to say something Go on. Joe: But the sauce on this Harry: Yeah. It is so flavorful. You can see they even got Because it isn't a -- the Like, they put the cheese on there first and then ladled the sauce on there. Harry: Yeah. Oh, it's so good, though. I want the sauce to almost I think obviously in the ideal world, everything is good, But a really flavorful sauce where you actually taste the Love the basil in here as well. But yeah, this is a Joe: I know. Harry: Is this the same way stringier. We're Joe: So, they're doing two The sauce is different, but and then a second cheese. Harry: You can kind of see, because it's bubbled up a lot more. You Joe: They really cheese it up on this one. No. Yeah, this one you gotta take a seat for. This one you take the Dax Shepard booth. Harry: Just Dax's usual spot, please. Yeah, which just this one, All right. Hey, hey, hey, hey, seven other places. Calm your ass down. True. But also I'm really hungry, so -- Joe: All right, well, the next place. Harry: All right, this was really good. As far as starting points go, pretty excellent benchmark. Yeah. Joe: Literally just across John's of Bleecker Street. Now. I want to talk about Harry: Please do. Pizza ovens. I love pizza ovens. Let's go. When pizza first started they were using almost Then the gas ovens got introduced sometime I think in the '40s or '50s. A coal oven cooks way hotter. Now, this is important for As you're aware, Italians about how pizza should be, and more importantly, should But they cook it at way hotter than a So imagine it like this cooked the traditional So it's like the best Fusion cuisine. It's like how when The Cheesecake Factory has Southwest egg rolls. This is the Southwest egg roll of pizza. Yeah, thank you. Harry: Coal-fired ovens aren't If you're going to a pizza place, it's generally wood-fired ovens. Joe: Yeah, which is weird, chimney sweeps. You guys know Tiny Tim just clearing Joe: Dick Van Dyke's going and a face full of soot What also sets this place apart is they don't do pizza by the slice. Can't get it by the slice here, Harry: Nice. Yeah, I mean, seems like the vibe of this place. Sit down. These tables and basically since they opened as well. Oh! I forgot. No, this place wasn't vandalized. Apparently, the thing to do here is to take out a really sharp knife and carve your initials, your name, something you want to do Recognize this right here? Harry: Ah, yeah, I think Joe: No. Red chili pepper flakes. You know the Chili Peppers, the band, this is them in flake form. Harry: Ah, got it. I have whereas it's pretty much everywhere here? Joe: So much so when they'll have little packets of this and little packets of Parmesan as well. Harry: The Red Hot Chili Peppers. Joe: Yeah, they suck. Harry: You just love -- really? Joe: They suck. Their guitar, like, legit an amazing musician and can play. And they write these really And this dumbass comes in, he's like, &quot;Yubba-dubba-goo, batta-boo, California.&quot; Someone has to step in and stop this band. This has to stop. Harry: There we go. You want to put in the bag? Is this? No, this, I think this is good. I want to call your attention to how much harder-cooked the crust is. Harry: Yeah, man. Old-school Joe: Why don't you get a plate ready? Harry: There we go. Already just by looks, Not maybe as homogenous in terms of the classic New York slices where the mozzarella and the I like the fact that the has got a bit of that looking like bubbling. I quite like this. Because generally speaking, you get a bit more flavor contrast. You get a nice sort of crispy burned bit and then a normal bit. Harry: I'm getting there. Yeah, it's like this guy's hosting it. The sauce isn't as flavorful but the cheese, the I agree. The cheese sets Joe: Now let's spice it up, huh? Harry: Hit me up. Maybe for my weak British palate. Joe: A little Anthony The other pepper. Oh. Ooh. And, you know what, a little salt. This is why British food because you've put about on every mouthful. Yeah, that's why. I think it's your wimpy palates. All that tea you're drinking. The slices are -- obviously so slices are smaller. So even though we did get a whole pie, I feel like this is equivalent of, like, three New York City slices. Harry: Yeah, I'd say so. Joe: Even though that's a full What? Joe: Yep. We go at least one bigger over here. Harry: That in the UK This is a big pizza. I think you could happily feed two people off of this on its own. Do you notice the effect of the How is this different Joe: I do. My theory on that is this. One, because it was cooked so much faster, the cheese is gooier. It hasn't mixed so much with the sauce. And I feel that the on the crust, you can see It's a lot crispier, right? You can see the dustiness Harry: Yeah. Joe: It's got Dick Van I could break off this slice and, like, write on the concrete with it. That's how charcoaled it is. Everyone's got these annoying pizza rules that come from who cares, what how you're supposed to cook I can't stand all these BS rules. You're only saying that and everyone hates Chicago style. Joe: Yeah, maybe. But pizza can be so many wonderful things if you just kind of ease up It's funny. I mentioned that because the next place we're going outside-the-box sort of slice of pizza. I don't know any other either in New York or in About to find something that's breaking all the pizza rules, baby. OK. The rule book's going Right out the window. Harry: Let's do it. All right. All right, all right, all right. Now, I might give me a little bit but this is a really special slice that I think that everyone who Yeah, I'm mixing my Red What is going on here? Is this an American thing? No, this is me. New York place. Artichoke Almost all of it is right here. This slice deviates a little about trying the classic But, like, I have to take you here because this slice is so I think it is important for anyone who visits New York to try this slice. And as you can see, no tomato sauce, it's a white sauce, cheese, Harry: Yeah. I mean, anything that we've tried today. It's also way thicker. Harry: It feels like it's Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: This is a thick slice, maybe the biggest slice we've had today. Joe: This thing is ridiculous. Cheers, buddy. Oh, my God. Creamy, right? It's got a really savory Have you ever tasted That's crazy. Joe: Isn't it crazy how good this is? Man, that is so, like, buttery. Yeah, buttery. Harry: Decadent. Like, rich. Yeah. Harry: I'm already kind of full. Joe: Yeah, man. One slice Harry: That's, that is, that's wild. I don't know what I was Joe: That's really great, right? Harry: Yeah. Joe: Definitely a must Harry: Yeah. Joe: And it's weird because, you know, by all accounts of the pizza purists, so I'm just projecting all this I don't even know who I'm Harry: These guys. Joe: I mean, yeah, no tomato sauce, artichoke is obviously It's a lot bigger than So I can see a lot of people being like, &quot;Oh, it doesn't count.&quot; it's like, yeah. But it's ... as far as taste goes, Some people seem to just whereas this, I think I think, yeah, buttery is my adjective. Genuinely just so velvety and rich. That's kind of wild. Joe: This is a slice that if you love it, nothing else, I can't you can get, any other pizza. I don't know any other [dance music plays] Harry: Was that, like, a Cher ... ? Joe: Corniest song possible. Harry: You have those a specific food. If you're craving a slice of cheese pizza, a lot of places that Whereas I guess, yeah, if you're craving an artichoke pizza, Joe: I used to live by and it was a problem. Harry: That's dangerous. So, I mean, obviously Joe: Yes, and we're in New York. We're in New York. Some people might say this Would you say this is a New York slice? Yes, I would, Harry. But, you know, I'm not really into following just for the sake of rules, so. That seems to be your vibe. You're the bad boy. Kind Joe: That's right. If this jacket had a collar, straight up. All right, enough of this. We got more pizza to eat. I got more Red Bull and Cokes to make. Harry: I hate that so much. Ready to go? Come on, let's go. That Red Bull's kicking in, baby. Harry: All right. Joe: Our next stop might be It's Joe's. All right, buddy. So I got, of course, slice of the classic cheese. Then I got their fresh mozzarella slice. And then the reason I'm is for two reasons. One, I only have two hands. Two, you see how it's You see the dangle? The Big slices. I don't want to put this on the table. Harry: No. Joe: That has never been cleaned because it's New York City. And then you take the top one, maybe. OK. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. My only concern with this and now I've got pizza on New York City, baby. That's New York. Joe: The reason I'm taking you to Joe's is Joe's is arguably the Harry: Yes. But this one, it's almost It was in &quot;Spider-Man.&quot; Harry: I'm trying to film it was in. I feel in &quot;Spider-Man,&quot; but. Is it the Tobey Maguire one? Ah! A bit of trivia about Joe's that is not really food-related is that it's so famous in this city that pizza places will open like Little Joe's, Joe Jr.'s. So Joe's is always having to sue places. Pizza place, they'll be It's like, &quot;Nah, it ain't happening.&quot; Harry: Cease and desist. Joe: Joe himself hops on the So, notice how this slice, but they didn't cut it in half. A lot of color on the bottom there. This is quite a good char going on. It looks a little more saucy. Harry: Yeah, it does. Which is good. But this slice, I mean, this is a tourist destination. I mean, other people are So you know it's the spot. Harry: He's dressed a lot Joe: Were we supposed I'm feeling underdressed now. Joe: Yeah. Dig in, buddy. Harry: OK, here we go. Joe: Good enough for Harry: Tobey Maguire, the best one. Mm. Sauce, right? The sauce. Right? It's thin, and it's looks like it's going Nothing simple about this. No. The flavors of the sauce, it's perfect. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm into this. This is really good. Well seasoned. Nice and So you can imagine why just pizza places open that's like, &quot;Yeah, we're also Joe's.&quot; Harry: Mm-hmm. I want to call everyone's attention to, like, it's pretty well cooked, right? It's pretty crispy here, It isn't falling over. It's a really weird mix of, like, crispy but also kind of soggy. Joe: Now, while you're working on that, I want to tell you about this next slice. This is the fresh mozzarella. As you can see, a little not so much with the cheese. is it's exactly what we This is, like, almost all sauce. Harry: Yes. Saucy boy, right here. Talk to me about the Oh, that's how they call I'm excited about the Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: This is going to All right, ready? Go. Harry: I'm actually going to say, I think I just prefer the classic cheese. Joe: Wow, really? I wasn't expecting myself It's crazy, man. I figured I thought you were going to I kind of am, but for some reason, the combination of the is working better for me. Me personally, I'm going to say that as much as I love the when you talk about a New York slice, it isn't just eating it, Joe's, I could eat this while surfing on the internet on my phone. This one requires a Harry: Yeah, it's this one. No contest. Joe: Wow. Stick to the classics if Joe: It has to be regular. It has to be Joe's not Duke of Joe's. Harry: No. Joe: Not Classic Joe's, Famous Harry: [laughing] &quot;Duke of Joe's.&quot; Yeah, right. When are we going to Harry's I never heard of it, so have fun. Any of that dump. Harry: So, I mean, this is a Joe: Yeah. Harry: But honestly, I'm kind of into it. I was worried it would be Really bad quality. Cheap. I feel like you can't get complacent, just with the sheer amount of competition. You know, if you got even someone else is zooming You still want to have some more pizza? I know we've eaten a lot. Harry: I can always eat pizza. All right. Yeah, me too. OK, let's go to the next spot. Come on. Eh, just leave it there. Harry: Leave it there. That's I don't know where Harry He's from London. He can I want some of that pizza. We're right by the Brooklyn We're in the town of Dumbo, It's one of the biggest chains. They have, like, 43 so they're doing pretty well. Speaking of. Ooh! Joe: Oh, man. Oh, man. Thank you. Look at these! I forget if I mentioned people think that one of the reasons why New York City pizza's Harry: Yeah, I've heard this. Joe: I've heard this too. I've heard various, some people But in 2010, they got a to actually examine the water. And then all their other locations, apparently they have this machine, this proprietary machine or process where they can remake New York So when they make the dough, That's pretty cool. Joe: Now, I personally but good on them for doing I mean, the pizza's Maybe it is the water Who's to say? So, these look amazing. So, we've got the classic, Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. The This has sausage, ricotta, tomatoes. Mm. Joe: Fantastic. Oh, wow. That's very good. Very good. Look at this guy. Man, you got a cheesy slice. Harry: Cheers, my man. Few sips missing from mine. The sauce is the star of the show. Reminiscent to me, the Harry: Yeah. Joe: Looks like they'd at high heat. It's gooey So it's another coal-fired Joe: Yeah, it's another the burnt top, but also how the stuff kind of melted I think when it cooks so fast, Harry: I like it. It's almost a stronger cheese taste than some of the places today. Joe: Yeah. The cheese itself has I mean, I'm curious about I might just jump into this right now. Want a slice of this? Harry: Yeah, absolutely. Why not? I touched it. I'm sorry. Mm. That's so cheesy, man. Joe: Surprise. Oh, speaking of. Even more cheese to your cheese. It's maybe not as strong a kind of coal-finish, charred flavor. I personally, I think, want more of that. Joe: Me too. I want to feel like they literally just took it off the coals. Like I'm just biting Joe: Yeah, yeah. Look at this. I've noticed the bubbles here. Oh, wow. Harry: See, yeah, I really -- Joe: That's all that flavor. Harry: I love the charred Joe: We oughtta put charcoal in it. That's really popular with, like, soaps and toothpaste and stuff. Is that a scam, or is that, does that actually do anything? I'm certain it does nothing. My wife, she used the charcoal toothpaste. And all it did was turn our sink black. Instead of the white and it's like, please stop doing this. That's just how it looks when brushes their teeth anyway, so it's fine. Have that cup of tea. Why is it all just? Ah, well, you do it only on Sundays. Harry: I do. I brush my teeth once a week, whether it needs it or not. Joe: &quot;Whether it needs it or not.&quot; These are the best taking you today in New York City. What are some of your Harry: I mean, overall I think we've had some fantastic slices. I think we've covered I like the vibe in here. It's a bit more of a old-school, red-and-white tablecloth, family joint. And then obviously we've where you just grab, go, very authentic New York experience, so, I think between all of these, we've covered what feels like a lot. Joe: I didn't want to take I wanted to get a good sense of what New York City has to offer. Pizza consumption just in is how much meat you can put on it or how many different varieties of things, and eating a lot of it, and, but I what I love about most part it was just sauce, Harry: I think that's a great point. Just given how few ingredients there are, the small differences Little differences in the or how you're cooking it really can make a very, I think in terms of the we've had today, the nonna slice at Bleecker Joe: OK. But. Harry: However. Joe: However. But wait, there's more. Harry: I wasn't blown away I think if I were to come back of mine were visiting and I think I'd actually go with I think that coal-fired pie was fantastic. Joe: You think better Harry: I think better than this one. I think the sauce and the cheese tasted better and you got more of the kind The char on it was lovely. I just like the vibe in there as well. I think this is the best This is -- Because before, I thought I've strangely become It has a flavor to it And even though we've I'm struggling to not grab this slice and shove it in my face. I feel like often as we go through the day and we get more full and Joe: Yeah. I know. The later places might struggle, but you've had the opposite. Yeah. Now, I want to point were from the coal-fire oven. You know what? I'm kind Maybe because it gave it a distinct flavor you don't get normally. But I would argue that a coal-fire oven just produces better pizza. I just really like these I think for me, that's almost By the way, that slice is Just fiddling around with Joe: All right, we get Harry: We've also given our favorite slots to whole-pizza places rather than a pick-up-and-go slice spot. Is grabbing a slice and walking around actually not the move? I didn't even think about But maybe it's just sitting down. Maybe we just like that Harry: I do love sitting down. How about for next time I'm in town, we'll try and find a place that does coal-fired pizza by the slice? All right, you can do that That's fine. I'll do it. Joe: OK.