Translator: Katrin R. Once, my awakening happened I was working in Vancouver, At the Vancouver General Hospital, as you can see, I have not changed a bit - (Laughter) and I found myself on Day after day, and I'm watching surgeons operate on arteries in their neck, And from their arteries, their surgeons called atherosclerosis. This is nasty stuff; This stuff will set up and stop blood flow will kill you with a stroke One day, I'm watching a surgeon pull out a particularly slithery, rubbery and I think to myself, &quot;Man, that stuff looks like chicken fat.&quot; And the little voice in my head says, &quot;There's a good reason It is chicken fat - and cow fat and pig fat and the fat of every other slow animal walking past this man's table (Laughter) This really resonated with me because I was eating lot's of chicken, And my dad was already showing and I knew I was going to be laying with that Stryker saw going up my sternum, and uh-uh, I didn't want that. I saw those people when they woke up. I began getting these flashing lights saying you should change you should stop putting all And that duly registered. But the real clincher I was having dinner with a friend and, actually, the seeds of this incident There were already literature reports that people could reverse clogged arteries This one was published in 1977. Dr. Dean Ornish had showing that you could reverse with a plant-based diet. As these were resonating with me, I remembered something When I was a fourth-year medical student, I would spend my Saturday nights at bad old Cook County And every Saturday night, I would see the worst of what human beings I saw the shotgun blasts and by Sunday morning, shaking with what I had seen I knew I couldn't get rid of but at least I could try and get So I started making a serious study I read the works of Gandhi about living a life of ahimsa, So one evening I am pontificating to a friend but I was doing so while polishing off (Laughter) He looked at me with great compassion but if you want to really get you might want to start with because in satisfying your desire you are paying for and for the next one in line Well, when he said that, all the old rationalizations &quot;Well, that's what they raised them for,&quot; all of those came up, but before the words could pass my lips, that little voice in my head said, &quot;Try it! Try it.&quot; I had done a lot of my growing up I saw the old dairy cows I had chopped the heads off chickens; I had seen calves to keep that milk flowing I knew the cruelty and the violence that were inherent all meat, all dairy products. When I went up to pay I felt complicit in and at that point, I knew that my days of eating meat If I was going to be a man of integrity, I could no longer deny the fact I'm actually paying to be delivered upon And I could not deny So I adopted a plant-based diet. It wasn't a big sacrifice. I had oatmeal and fruit in the morning Lunches and dinners: big colorful salads, Oriental stir fries, Indian curries, big plates of steamed lots of colorful fruit for dessert. It was a joyous way of eating - still is. No calorie counting, no portion control, And my body loved it! Within ten weeks, a twenty-pounds spare tire of fat my high cholesterol sank to normal, my elevated blood pressure went to normal, and I felt great waking up in At that point, I realized I was six months but as much I loved anesthesia, I knew I didn't want to be and spend all my time putting What I really wanted to do was to go back to general practice Because I left general because I couldn't handle, Lovely man, funny guy, really love Ken, but his body was Sixty pounds past obese, on insulin and metformin for his diabetes. His lipids were over the moon. He hadn't had an erection for years Every time I saw Ken and all his - You know, his wife Karen is On this morning, doctors all over North America, where everybody's got because this is who we've become I would feel like a fraud I didn't know what to tell him. &quot;You've got to lose some weight, Ken. Eat little less. You ought to walk a little bit more.&quot; And I'd fiddle with his insulin dosage, and as he was leaving the office, &quot;And please don't have your stroke And this was the kind of medicine and like so many doctors are practicing, and it's so disheartening because we know we're really not helping; we are just presiding over Well, after my nutritional revelation, Because Ken and all the diseases the obesity and the diabetes and all the inflammatory diseases - we were told that these you can't get rid of them, and doctors have become disease managers: we manage high blood pressure, I don't know of any doctor who filled out his medical school &quot;My burning desire in life is to write We went into medicine and to cure these diseases, and every one of these diseases Every doctor who practices has a stable full of patients who used to be obese, All these diseases go away. But if you talk to the lurid professors to find the cause of these diseases, you're going to run into two words etiology unknown. We don't know what causes these diseases. There's some molecular mismatch We're working on it. As soon as the smart docs in the labs we'll get it to you, and you can give it to your patients Until then, you just keep prescribing and don't get too depressed. And more and more doctors are getting Etiology unknown - nonsense. It's the food! What people are eating these days. People are eating anywhere near They have eggs in the morning, and lunches and dinners have and buffalo wings and pizzas, etc. That is the cause of the clogged arteries, Every meal sends a tide free-radical containing oils, concentrated sugars. This injures us on every level. And if you decide, if you choose to put a piece of meat and that's how most Westerners eat: Where's my protein? if you choose to eat in that manner, you are choosing to add a particularly toxic brew hour after hour - I'll just just go over The very act of cooking meat and these rip electrons off of your DNA very destructive molecules. Neu5Gc, this is a sialic acid and it sets off inflammatory reactions and the meat eaters are eating this stuff Endotoxin, this is from the bacteria that coat all the meat. They break apart their cell walls, forms as endotoxin molecule slows your heart, TMAO, trimethylamine oxide. This stuff forces cholesterol and it's made from that are spawned by eating meats and eggs. We are not Homo Carnivorous. We are not the meat-eating ape. But when we try and eat like that, and I'm afraid our friends and patients are going to learn this one the hard way. Even if you are taking and eating wild-caught salmon, you are still putting these molecules hour after hour, day after day, and it has effects. We now know that food brings in a lot more Our food is chemically alive. Within minutes of eating anything, molecules of that food are washing where your DNA lies unfolded. Food molecules wash through your cells, They turn genes on; they turn genes off. They induce enzymes; Every meal changes us In this digital age, we can't be shocked to realize it brings in information. The science is called nutrigenomics. It's how your food and we can't pretend This is where inflammation starts, this is where immunity resides, if we turn on People blame their genetics: &quot;Oh, my dad had a heart attack at age 56. Yeah, if you run the same food you'll create the same diseases. But in one sentence, that you're genetically Your genes may load the gun, but your diet and lifestyle Whether that disease depends upon the molecules you're flowing You don't have to be a geneticist that are going to be turned on are going to be fundamentally than the genes turned on This salad is symbolic all the green and yellow When you eat food like this, tides of these wonderful phytonutrient and they are stabilizing, they quench free radicals, they give the chemical &quot;Shh, calm down. Everything's okay.&quot; Because for doctors to practice medicine without appreciating what puts the doctor in the position where blind men grab each has a different part but nobody has an idea Well, that's the problem All these specialists looking at the body and they are trying to figure out when the reality is The Western diet has become so toxic that these molecules bubble up The internist sees and the endocrinologist and the physiatrist sees the sore joints, and the rheumatologist and the dermatologist sees the psoriasis, and the gastroenterologist They are all looking at the same disease! It's what our patients are eating! It's the food, it's the food, and we can't pretend it's not. But when's the last time &quot;Take me through your day. What do you have I'm really interested in your diet.&quot; Anybody have a doctor ask you that? Why not? That's the real issue. Because if a patient goes on then we at least owe them the information. 30 days, 60 days, 90 days the changes are spectacular. The obesity starts to melt away, the high blood pressure goes down, the skin clears up, the bowel start working, and people turn into that don't have diabetes, and they don't need medications You just see them at the which is really just And medicine gets fun again. These fearsome diseases that you're told never go away you find, absolutely, food has everything and they get better including the artery disease, the plaques that are in this artery, a whole-food, plant-based diet melts away. How much longer can doctors pretend that food has nothing to do It is unfair and unethical to withhold In fact we are instructed to give our patients Medicine becomes fun again it certainly happened to my patient Ken. The body thrives on and so does the Earth. Because the reality is the industrial production of animal flesh, is the driving force behind every one of the major environmental This is why the forests to make grazing land This is where the water is going; Seventy billion animals are all breathing out carbon dioxide Our thirst for flesh, our hunger for flesh is really what's driving so much I urge people to go to the website and educate yourself about how is really driving this poor bear and strip mining the ocean is not a help. But if we change our diet, we will need so much land less that the forests will come back, the soils will stabilize, This Earth will heal, and the chances for a livable future I urge each of you to go to pcrm.org, educate yourself, there's lot's of good Check out videos like Forks Over Knives, Doctors all over the world are waking up. Check out the Plantrician project; you'll find there thousands now all talking to each other as a new era of plant-based I'm doing what I can, and talking to first, second and giving them the lecture I wish when I was a first-year medical student. It's what your patients are eating! Ask them about their diet. You can cure these people. If we evolve our diet as individuals, we will get healthier as a species, we will heal this planet, and the future will get So I want the public that they have available to them I want my medical colleagues to wake up and see the food that our patients in the causation and for all of us that a plant-based diet offers all of us. I'm dr. Michael Klaper. What's on your plate? (Applause)