In 2011, Japan was ravaged by a magnitude In Fukushima prefecture, TEPCO's Daiichi area to radiation. Now, this radioactive material is seeping surrounding areas into a post-apocalyptic Few people outside of Japan know what really of this one disaster could potentially affect On today's Geographics, we bring you the Before The Disaster volcanic "Ring of Fire" in the Pacific Because of where it's located, the country regular basis. Most towns along the coast have sea walls, frequent tremors every single year. Before 2011, some of the worst earthquakes The Fukushima Prefecture is located in Northern In the 5th Century, the people of Fukushima Barrier to protect themselves from citizens There were several different ethnic groups Fukushima felt that their people were far pure Japanese blood. Today, that ancient barrier is still standing, tourist attractions. Beginning in the 1870's, the Hamadori region mining industry. This was the region's main resource for The vast majority of Fukushima is filled with simple life generation after generation. After World War II, Fukushima struggled compared Western technology made its way into the major In the 1950's, TEPCO energy began creating of coal. And by the 1970's, TEPCO decided to build Fukushima. By 1979, both nuclear facilities called "Daiichi"- both complete. The Day Of Infamy struck northern Japan. It was the worst earthquake that has ever of the top 5 in the entire world. It lasted for 6 minutes, which was far longer It triggered a tsunami that traveled at 800km, heights of 133 feet or 40.5 meters, before The tsunami completely destroying sea walls and wiped out entire cities in a matter of Normally, these tsunamis only affect the coast kilometers inland. A total of 18,430 people were killed, or went This by itself would have made it one of the But what everyone remembers, of course, is The Tokyo Electric Power Company- TEPCO for along the shoreline, which made them vulnerable During the earthquake, lights were crashing, TEPCO employees in the central control room The men had emergency flashlights at their this windowless facility. They followed the protocol for an emergency, active reactors offline at both the Daiichi more complicated than that. Uranium splits apart inside of the reactor, Nuclear fission continues, and every time to split, and it lets off an immense amount This uranium is held inside of "fuel rods", "control rods" which help to stop the This emergency shutdown is called "SCRAM", seen in the movies. However, it becomes so hot, that the nuclear This takes up to 24 hours for these nuclear sophisticated cooling system using fresh water. But without this cooling system, the nuclear Soon after the reactors were shut down, the The lights were back, and the cooling system down. But, unfortunately, that wasn't the end Even though the emergency backup system worked, come next. A few minutes later, the shadow of a tsunami towered over the sea wall. Two of the employees attempting to make repairs and the generators destroyed. Everything went dark once again, and the reactors The water surrounding the reactor was beginning Believe it or not, TEPCO actually had a "Plan There is a system called "Isolation condensers" even if the backup generators fail, and the But after the flood, that stopped working, The employees hoped that the isolation condensers had no idea since they couldn't access it. The meltdown was already beginning. Just 15 minutes after the tsunami took place, let them know that an unusual event was occurring This disaster was beyond anything that the All of their backups upon backups had been They reached a point where they had no idea No one at TEPCO had been trained on what to due to a flood. Cars floated like they were toys in the bathtub, Hundreds of aftershock earthquakes that continued An engineer's job is to find solutions to Desperate to find a solution, employees begin parking lot, and removed the batteries. They spent the next 6 hours attempting to on using the batteries. By 9:19 p.m. they finally managed to collect system back online. The only trouble was that so much time had Without the water, the cooling system still Now, you may be wondering- why not just use After all, they just got pummeled with tons But the corporate executives in Tokyo strictly corrosive to the reactor. It would mean losing a multi-million dollar use it again. They were hoping that the issue could be contained The superintendent of the second plant, Daini office in Tokyo to help cool the reactor, water instead. Meanwhile at the second facility, Daini, they have power in one of the buildings that had They needed to lay down 5 miles long of cable that they had available in order to keep the Normally, that amount of cable would take a matter of hours. Two hundred people were working on it, and Three days after the tsunami, they successfully the generators back on, and the cooling system They were lucky enough to be near a freshwater cold water to the reactor. The employees cheered. Despite all of the odds, they had managed But first facility, Daiichi was not so lucky. Their jerry-rigged generators made from car were far from being out of the woods just Meanwhile, in Tokyo that the Daici nuclear reactor was about to He had to consider the possibility of figuring in a matter of hours. The disaster had the potential to expose Fukushima He said, &quot;I feared that the entire nation a long time.&quot; The employees of TEPCO did not go home. After all, their houses were destroyed by With nothing left to go back to, they spent for that fresh water to arrive. Everyone fully expected to die, but they passed water levels in the dark. They held flashlights and used pencils to had left. However, the gauge was not reading correctly. They had no idea that all of the water was and that the metal was already beginning to It was already too late. At this point, the reactor was a pressure The only way to prevent it from exploding cool down the reactor. But it would also mean exposing the surrounding Prime Minister Kan listened to their options, only choice. He announced on Japanese television that the and everyone within a 2-mile or 3-kilometer evacuate. Later, it would become obvious that 2 miles towns were told to evacuate. On March 12, 2011, Prime Minister Kan was He got on a helicopter and flew to see the He arrived at 7 a.m. Employees maneuvered their way through the manually. They were holding the geiger counters and much higher than they had ever anticipated. Something had gone wrong. The radiation was so high, they would not They were forced to abort the mission until Finally, at 2:15pm on March 12, steam was At Daichi, the uranium from the rods were This caused a chemical reaction that created The reactor became like a pressure cooker, finally exploding. Everyone could feel the shock, and citizens Now, radiation is pouring out of the reactor Employees scrambled to fix the problem, but reactor number 3 exploded at 11:01 AM on March Fifty TEPCO employees were standing very close a single person was killed. And only 11 people suffered from injuries. By March 15th, it was 4 days after the tsunami. None of the employees had a chance to go home around the clock to prevent another explosion. Over 150,000 residents living in Fukushima the radiation zone was now a 12-mile radius. For the hundreds of thousands of people who to go. They were kept in the gymnasium of schools No one was prepared to help these refugees, their homes after the earthquake and tsunami. The staff disobeyed orders, and began using did not have an efficient way to pump it inside. The superintendent quietly gave the order of the TEPCO staff, just as reactor number By March 19th, a fire department equipped finally arrived to help the employees. They were able to spray water to refill the Finally, they were safe, and the employees The Aftermath were finally allowed into the outer edges They were all forced to wear full-body suits Even after all this time it was still extremely much worse the closer you get to ground zero. Even though this disaster was caused by natural the employees of TEPCO have been shunned by all of the blame for what happened. They humbly apologized to everyone, and took public way. The employees who spent all of that time containing One person has already died of cancer. And the rest will surely die years before It is estimated that it could take up to 40 Fukushima disaster. Robots equipped with video cameras enter the the health and safety of humans, but several The problems with the cleanup are so complex, does not even exist yet. Forty years from now, most people who were have likely passed away. People who are not even born yet will be expected up after the disaster. This cleanup effort involves digging up the trash bags, and then moving the dirt to a There are now over 9 million radioactive trash mountain. For years after the disaster, no one was allowed ground zero. The levels of radiation were so high in certain deadly amounts of cancer-causing radiation. Houses, cars, and classrooms were left abandoned in a time capsule of the moment the disaster Plants are overgrown. Hundreds of wild and aggressive radioactive The Japanese government has given subsidies so that they could pay for new housing. But for the people who spend multiple generations money is never enough. It will never replace the beautiful countryside Japanese citizens are understandably angry Even though they prevented an even larger that a nuclear power plant should have never Some people cannot seem to believe that this and the disaster has inspired several different Eight years after the disaster occurred, people The town of Naraha, which is 12 miles from less than half of the residents have chosen Over the course of 4 years, the city spent to living conditions. All of the old buildings had to be torn down At the brand new school, there are only 68 has to check the radioactivity in every single While these citizens are doing the best they will tell if their health will be negatively There are many citizens who are not content up. One Naraha resident named Hisao Yanai purchased effort of digging radioactive dirt. During an interview with National Geographic, if it means bringing his hometown back to In Japanese culture, there is a deep sense one's self for the "greater good". And in Japanese Shinto tradition, there is plants and animals. So, for many people who have decided to return to sacrifice their own lives to clean up Fukushima. Some are choosing to take care of the livestock the evacuation. These few people have become caretakers of How This Disaster Affects The World to just Japan. Fukushima was given a score of 7 on the International highest possible ranking. According to Stanford University, the steam onto the surface of the Pacific Ocean. In just four days, a strong jetstream brought shores of North America. Studies found that the fish in Japan's water in amounts that were 150 times the legal limit in a 150,000 square kilometer area around than it ever has before. The Japanese government is continuing their land. Even though it is clear that the cleanup is to move forward. In 2020, the Olympics are coming to Tokyo, to welcome foreigners so that they are not It was announced that their torch relay will Many people consider the fact that the government is premature, even if it is only in the towns Even so, the progress is incredibly slow, trying to return to normalcy, the vast majority a post-apocalyptic realm. Now, years after the disaster, we have to having. In recent years, there has been a push to world. Some say that it is a "green" energy, last forever. But is that one benefit truly worth the risk, In the case of the Fukushima Daiichi reactor, power to stop the crisis, but they were no Who is to say that we won't encounter another dismantle yet another nuclear reactor on the Next time, will we be ready?