- [Stefan] In the 1970s and '80s, archeologists and cavers in Britain were excavating a site down in Somerset. The cave consisted of with two chambers at the bottom. Inside, they found some Roman the remains of an auroch, And the bodies of at least 30 people who lived about 4,000 years ago. We'll never know how or but it seems from the that they were chucked Bit of a bummer for them, for sure. The last bummer of their life. One thing we can say for sure, though, is at least two of them had the plague, AKA, the Black Death, AKA Yesenia pestis. - And of the individuals we sampled, so this is individuals we sampled 30 teeth from this site. And of these 30 teeth, two of them were positive for Yersinia pestis. - That's Dr. Pooja Swali. I had the pleasure of chatting to her and Frederik Seersholm. Two geneticists studying this that swept through Europe at an incredibly pivotal time in our history, the Neolithic to Bronze Age transition. A time of huge cultural right across the whole continent. With their help, we're gonna really dig How did they find the plague? How was it spread? How deadly was it? And, crucially, what impact did it have in this crucial time period? It was absolutely I can't wait to share it with you all. And... (chuckles) It allows me to break out my This was the height of (mellow electronic music) (keyboard clacks) First, let's put this plague The Neolithic Period represents Basically, it's the Stone Probably the most iconic tool are these polished stone axes. Honestly, they're absolutely beautiful, one of my favorite prehistoric artifacts. You just know they feel so smooth and heavy. And in really rare cases, archeologists have even which is incredible. I've even got a replica here. Shout out AncientCraft. Mine is not polished (Stefan chuckles) Obviously, when people say the Stone Age, a part of your brain can't help but think of bumbling cavemen, but this couldn't be The Neolithic time was a period of huge architectural achievement. Some of our greatest prehistoric monuments date to this time period. Stonehenge, Avebury, all the like the Ring of Brodgar. All fantastic sites. Huge megalithic Communities were in contact across a wide stretch of the It's honestly one of my in pre-history. I absolutely love learning Shout out to them. Many of these monuments are aligned to the movements of the stars All these things. These farming communities to the changing of the seasons It really was a time of incredible and development all across There are incredible sites The people of Britain lived in small farming villages. Farming things like Pigs and cows and sheep. Farming had originally in the Fertile Crescent, starting about 12,000 years ago. It's debatable when it started, but about 12,000 years ago These communities then spread and North Africa, about 6,000 years ago. The people of Neolithic in these big communal monuments. Some like the West Kennet Long Barrow are still very much intact. There are also incredibly huge monuments still intact in Ireland. But most of the time the these people were buried and we're just left with these huge stones across the landscape of And they're beautiful, They're like ghosts of another time. Life in Britain went on like this for about a thousand years. However, around 4,300 and a little bit earlier in the continent, everything seems to The amount of villages we find declines, the amount of monuments Following this decline, a new culture appears in (mellow music) About 4,300 years ago, just a couple of hundred years after the big stone sarsens at a man was buried nearby. Today, we call him the Amesbury Archer. He was buried with some really familiar to the like flint arrowheads. However, he also had very strange to them. Metals. Golden hair ties, copper knives. This was the start of the Bronze Age. Instead of being buried in that Amesbury Archer had And many of these Bronze Age graves still dot the landscape around Stonehenge, and all across Europe we I've actually excavated This is one of the the few back when I was doing Shout out to the University of Pilsen. It was really incredible. This barrow had been plowed flat by 4,000 years of agriculture and everything in the grave had been totally smashed to bits, except for this dog that was buried with. The dog was still perfectly articulated. Every bone in its perfect I didn't take a picture of it, or at least I don't have 'cause I'm a moron. It would be nice to think would be happy about that. That their dog survived the Still dead, of course. (Stefan chuckles) But interestingly, the with these large clay beakers, five large clay beakers. Like this. This is another replica of the clay beaker from PottedHistory.co.uk. Again, these beakers are They're found across Europe. Archeologists call this new because we're just full of imagination. (Stefan laughs) One hypothesis is that these beakers were important for feasting, They were clearly very important Many, many, many, many burials found with these big clay beakers. I should drink something out of this. I've never done that before. I should probably fill That's probably what would want me to do. For a very long time, what was the cause of from Stone Age farmers to these Beaker people? Was it local people just Or were these a new group, new people? Well, thanks to genetics, we now have the answer to that question. - Because in in population genetics, we see these two massive shifts, where like first we have and then for some reason, they disappear. They are probably just replaced by the people who knew how to farm. So, the farmers. And then they are then again replaced by the Bronze Age people. I guess the first transition, a lot of people have it involved violence. But the second transition, like when the farmers disappeared, it just seems like they Like there's there's and there is no ancestry in the next population. So in the steppe people, we find no like Scandinavian So for some reason, they - These two moments, the to Neolithic farmers, and then from Neolithic farmers to to Bronze Age people, Beaker people, at least genetically, these are the most significant moments in European pre-history that - So if you just want to you always find that they're grouped into three major groups. So you have the hunter and then the steppe people. And then within those groups, you'll see some, some geographical or some temporal structure, But you always find that they cluster into these three massive groups. So from an ancient DNA or if you get a random genome, whether it's from a or a steppe related individual. - Frederik called the people with steppe ancestry. Because this movement of seems to have begun around Modern Ukraine and Russia. The Yamnaya culture, who or kurgans, as they're called, on the continent in Eastern Europe. They're often associated with And incredibly, we can of what these people look This is the Kernosivsky idol. It's about 120 meters tall, and was found outside Dnipro in Ukraine. It's about 5,000 years old. It was found in association It just gives us an incredible insight into how these very viewed themselves. We don't often see a in this time period, at least in Europe. Axes tucked into his belt, bow and arrow over his shoulder, (Stefan chuckles) It's not the only Bronze It's just an incredible example. The Amesbury Archer was also a part of this Bronze We can tell from isotope that he originally grew up in the Alps. Southern Germany, Austria, Northern Italy, Switzerland, that region, before eventually making it to So we know the change from the was driven by this huge A new group of people not really mixing at all with the previous Neolithic population. Why? Why did this dramatic change happen? What was driving it? And did the plague play a role in it? (mellow lighthearted music) Okay, let's take a look at this plague. This is Pooja's paper here. &quot;Yesenia pestis genomes 4,000 years ago.&quot; This study relied on samples The first was Levens Park ring - So for Levens Park, at this burial, which was And so four individuals, and we found one individual with plague, which was a female, I - [Stefan] The other that really strange cave site I mentioned in the introduction. - So with Charter House this was a really interesting site, because it wasn't a normal It's still in press, so there's still some more information about this site specifically And it was this mass burial with a lot of trauma associated And of the individuals, we sampled 30. So, this is individuals And we sampled 30 teeth from this site. And of these 30 teeth, two of them were positive - So out of the 34 samples taken, only three were identified Yersinia pestis. That doesn't sound a lot, does it? That doesn't sound a lot. I had to ask Pooja, is that - It's hard to say if because with ancient DNA just because something isn't present or we can't find it, doesn't mean that As we mentioned, the or pathogen genomes, like they degrade, it's very dependent on preservation, our ability to detect it. And so we can never say a - [Stefan] For a disease the bacterial load has to be so high that it's found in the The only part of your - It has to be systemic for us, because if it doesn't make then we wouldn't be able So, a lot of infections that we're less likely to find. Unless they, again, managed because we're not looking at soft tissue. We're looking at skeletal remains, and we're looking at teeth specifically, - This means that potentially more of the people involved in the but the bacterial load or was so small, that it Just to give you some extra context here, the paper to the side of me was looking at detecting plague in people who had the Black Death from known Black Death burial sites, specifically from Smithfield and London. They had 109 samples, but could only detect plague in 20 cases. And these are people we died of the Black Death. So, just because we're finding smaller numbers in these sites, doesn't mean that more people One thing I really wondered was... Do geneticists go in with &quot;We're gonna go and try Or are they casting a wide net, and just seeing what they discover. - And so the way we sequence the genomes, we take the samples from the and we kind of take any DNA that could have caused and be lingering within the And we extract that genome, and we use a process called metagenomics to just look for any systemic infection that could've been in that individual. - Mm. Okay. - So the fact that individuals we weren't set out to look for it. - It's kind of mind blowing, to be honest. It's kind of mind blowing that we can just cast this wide net, and just see what's there, It's honestly endlessly fascinating to me. Thanks to these scientific advances, and the hard work of Pooja and other geneticists across Europe, the scale of this plague is (mellow string music) Take a look at this map This is all the Bronze Age sites where plague has been detected We have these sites in loads in central Europe, Germany, As far north as Estonia, and as far east as as All of the genomes in orange It's all part of the same outbreak. Behind this huge outbreak of the plague lies kind of a mystery, kind Only two of the plague genes have this YMT gene. That's what geneticists call it, YMT gene. And that's kind of interesting. - 'Cause this gene is known for Yersinia pestis is - This gene seems to be essential for the plague to survive And it seems to not be of this plague outbreak. This bacteria just don't seem to have it, other than a couple of rare cases. This means that unlike from medieval Europe, it might not be spread by fleas. It might be some other The plague can also manifest itself as a form of pneumonic plague, where you get it in your lungs, you're coughing, you're spluttering, and you spread it to people that way. So, that is one possibility They didn't necessarily that were common in the medieval outbreak. This is an important question though, because it sort of makes you wonder, if it's not being transmitted by fleas, then where was this plague As I learned from Pooja and Frederik, plagues like to have what This is the host animal before it spreads to humans and becomes an outbreak amongst us. In the medieval plague, it was rats. Rats get bitten by the But again, geneticists are what is going on, and where this plague is And to understand why, we have to look at the family tree of all of these plague outbreaks. We have to see how they're Okay, so this is the family tree of all the different bacteria that had been found when This is how they all relate to each other. And below on the map, we can see where these samples came from. You would think that the cases close to each other geographically are close to each other because they're in the nearby area. That must be what's going on. But it isn't. There's something strange going on here. Don't lose me in the This is kind of interesting Let's take a look down We have KNK001 and we have KLZ001. Obviously, very close to But they are not close to Let's take a look here. KNK001 is down here, KLZ 001 is up here. The samples from Britain to KLZ001. And lots of sites across Europe fall in between these two So in the 500 years between the plague had spread and all the way back again. How is it doing that? How is it spreading? - If there's a reservoir species, you're almost expecting there to be some sort of relationship but also the geographic of that strain specifically. But what we're seeing is that of geography and these strains. So, where is this Yersinia pestis, like where is the strain living? - The fact that we don't between geography and the their position in this family tree, has kind of led the geneticists to wonder if it's even living in a Maybe in this outbreak, Maybe it's just in us. So, what do you think of it spreading? - Well, we've had so I'm not really sure. Personally, I would say this. It's unlikely to be maintained is what I think is the situation. And it's more maintained in large groups rather than rodents. But that might be completely wrong, and I might be proven So yeah, I think we just need more genome to try and piece together - Maybe this plague is just being spread by the huge movements of Kind of interesting that whether it's living in another species. This whole conversation upended a lot of my assumptions It's so much more complex So far, all we've discussed All these orange dots from Pooja's study are all people with If we're gonna prove a link between the decline of the Neolithic we need to find some samples And this is where &quot;Repeated plague infections across six generations (keyboard clacks) - It all started because we knew that there was one plague in Scandinavia, in Sweden. - Ooh. The plague case Frederik is referring to can be seen on the map It's this one. Gokhem2. This was an outbreak of plague detected in a Neolithic individual. There's also another one That comes from the Neolithic time period, but was actually found It was debated whether these two cases were part of a widespread outbreak, or just a one one-time To try and answer that question, Frederik and his team went - And that was... Passage graves that these with one entrance, so that's why they're So we decided to sample that site heavily. I just tried to get as many bones as we can get our hands on. And then also include passage graves from the neighborhood Because this particular area in Sweden is basically packed with passage graves. So, they are everywhere. Well, if you're standing on one hill, you might be able to or something like that. And you can still see They're basically everywhere. And fortunately, many of these so it was quite easy to just and then get a bunch of - In total, Frederik and the team were able to get 108 samples all from around this (Stefan chuckles) Sorry, everyone in Sweden. Of these 108, 18 But 13 of those 18 were from the same tomb where they had in earlier studies. - And that's of course, I that was surprisingly high. Like we were expecting to - Seemingly quite a significant outbreak for it to be detected What's interesting, and is that these graves date to between 5200 and 4900 years ago. This period of decline in the Neolithic where the villages start disappearing, and the monuments stop being built. Seems very significant, to be honest. Such a large sample from tombs that are very close to allowed Frederik to between all these And that allowed them to understand how the plague is spreading - So this bit here is actually my favorite part of the paper. Because that was sort We hadn't really expected to find that many related individuals, but of course, it makes sense. Once you start to sequence every single individual of a grave, well then, you might expect that a lot of related individuals would pop up. So, the more individuals we sequenced during the sort of the beginning or the early phases of this study, the more related individuals we found. And it was like trying only having like half of the pieces, and then trying to find more pieces. And then I almost managed and that was a very satisfying feeling. (Frederik chuckles) - Yeah. It's great fun to try to piece - By tying together this family tree, Frederik could clearly was kind of patrilineal. The males in these tombs all descend directly from each other. Grandfather, father, grandson. For the women though, this - [Frederik] If you pick a random female, you'll find that every is only related to her children - Ah... - So this shows that females were brought in from the outside. And the funny thing is that we actually did find her brothers, and they were buried in another grave. I think it was seven kilometers away. So, in this family tree, circles are always females, - And the FRA and the HJE, these represent the archeological sites? - [Frederick] Yes. - FRA, HJE. One second. Let's see where - Yeah. (chuckles) - FRA, so I imagine... FRA, this woman was in Fralsegarden. Sorry, Sweden, for my pronunciation. And the brothers were in Helmars ror. - Yes, exactly. Yeah. So this is, to my knowledge, the first time that people this female exogamy. And it's of course super exactly where she then came from. And it turns out, I guess that she didn't move very far. - The village down the road. Yeah. - Yes, exactly. Yeah. What are the odds of finding the brothers in another grave from individuals that were buried 5,000 years ago? That's fascinating, I think. - Building this huge family because we get to see how they're and it gives us a glimpse of Neolithic society. All of that stuff is great. But more importantly for how this plague is spreading And all in all, it turns out found three outbreaks of the plague in about a 120 year span. - The first one hit in generation one, and then there is one in what And both of these outbreaks So, there aren't that many individuals with these plague strains. - It was the third outbreak that seems to have hit - For the last outbreak, we do find this pattern from an epidemic. Where we find it to be very prevalent, and we find it across and we find the exact same - I imagine that finding the because it suggests it's there's no mutations or something. - Yes, yeah. - Yeah, yeah. That is sort of one thing that... It could last a year, but it wouldn't last 10 years. - Does it suggest that that plague variant is getting more deadly as time goes on? Is that a possible conclusion from that? Or is it kind of hard to say? - Yeah, so that is very difficult to say. So, that is our hypothesis. So, our hypothesis is the last one is more Because of the pattern Like, because it's way more and because it's only found So if you look only at of the left hand family tree, then it's actually present in - Six out of seven family members confirmed to have the plague. That's really a lot. Considering what we said of detecting the plague, I would bet that seventh Why would an outbreak of the plague get seemingly increasingly over the span of a hundred years? A hundred years isn't that much time for something to evolve. This is when Frederik introduced me to a concept I had never heard of before. Gene reshuffling. - But what might happen is that genes might be shoveled and that can actually change the virulence of the So, that's what we That it's not sort of normal evolution, but what is called... I guess we can call it gene reshuffling. And the thing is that, we observe this gene that we know is associated with virulence. So, it's from this region called YPN, and it's known from another bacteria called Yersinia psuedotuberculosis, where it can cause a disease called Far East Scarlet-like fever. So, it's interesting because we know it's in a region associated - Interesting, interesting. - And I guess together with like the fact that we find it often, and that it's in the last generations, then we think that this this became more deadly. - I'm not gonna lie, I'm no geneticist. Once we start going down the it's starting to go a little But the key takeaway is, in this last generation right at the point where their society is seemingly declining, there were three outbreaks of the plague. And seemingly with the the plague was getting more I really wanted to know from Frederik, is this Neolithic strain related Are we discussing one event here, one enormous outbreak of the for hundreds and hundreds of years? Or is this just coincidence? - So, the Neolithic strains are ancestors of the Bronze Age strains. And they are split by roughly So, the changes that you normally - Okay. - But say if you compare those two are very similar. Like the Neolithic and the Black Death, they are quite different. But the Neolithic and the - 500 years, that's not - No. - In the timeframe of the that's not so much. - No. - Just to summarize then, this question of how likely do you think plague played a role in this transition? How confident are you in that? - Well, I'm a scientist, so not very. But I guess I'm never very confident. (Stefan laughs) So, one of the main sort of things that have been put forward early on, suggesting that one of the main being involved in the Neolithic decline, was that it was only found So there's been other papers saying that, &quot;Well, it seems like it's Like just in this one and then it's also in our So there's been researchers saying that maybe it just every now and then, jumps from an animal like rats for example, And maybe it wasn't able And this paper definitely and it's not rare. It's prevalent, and it's So, I guess that we know for sure. And it's also very likely able to spread within humans, because otherwise we in the same family, for example. So, I think what this paper adds is that, that we've shown that it Plague was able to cause an outbreak, and reach epidemic like proportions. Whether it actually did, I to show that for sure. - Interesting. - And a really interesting that this plague is Neolithic individuals from Sweden, like the very last ones. And then afterwards, they just disappear. That's also very strong that the plague was involved in the Neolithic decline in some way. (discordant music) - In the woods. I gotta walk into the woods every video. (Stefan laughs) I don't know what it is. If you're like me, at this point, I'm thinking, I've got it all figured out. We have this enormous Very difficult to explain. And at the same time, we see this huge plague outbreak. Across steppe people and Neolithic people of southern Sweden. You can't help but think Well, here is the obligatory We don't actually know that So, I suppose we can't say if these people died of the plague. - No, unfortunately not. Yeah, we can just say that they had plague at the time that they died. But yeah, there's no evidence to say that these individuals or how bad their symptoms - This might seem a because of course we know like the medieval time, that the Black Death can It can wipe out half a But the thing to keep in mind is bacteria are evolving all the time. As we go further and further back in time, Yersinia pestis is gonna get Yersinia pseudotuberculosis. Yersinia pseudotuberculosis There's probably some right there. (Stefan laughs) No, I dunno. But it just lives in the ground. And if we get an infection from that, it basically just gives us a tummy ache. It's not very deadly. And yet its closest relative, the plague, can be extremely deadly. We don't actually know if has gotten less deadly, or the plague has gotten more deadly. - But yes, so we go further back in time, and they're becoming So, how far do we go till You know, what did that disease look like? - We could try and find out how deadly these plague strains are, but that's probably not a very - And also because, if how deadly an ancient then you would have to and that doesn't sound great, does it? - Yeah, I'm sure since 2020, the appetite for that - Yeah, exactly. All we can say is that, in order for us to find the DNA or the bacteria must because there is a little bit And normally, when a bacteria it's very dangerous. - The other bit of nuance to consider, if we're imagining this scenario where the plague sweeps across the land, it wipes out the Neolithic people, leaving room for the Bronze is we know that the Bronze so why weren't they affected? The only way I can sort of is imagining a scenario similar to when Europeans reached the Americas, and the Native Americans to the diseases that we brought with us. Maybe there's a similar Maybe these steppe people already had some immunity to the plague. In my head, I sort of maybe can't help but compare it to when Europeans That's sort of my comparison there. - [Frederik] Yeah, yeah. - But it seems that the - That's a good point, actually. I hadn't really thought much of this. So maybe if, say the steppe people, they arrived in Eastern I don't know about Well then, maybe you where they then infect farming people from Eastern Europe with the plague, and then it all spreads very through farming populations. Maybe that could explain it. That's a good point. - To answer that question, more and more samples from further east, in Eastern Europe, on the Eurasian steppe, pushing this plague outbreak further and further back in time. What was going on in the 500 years between these Neolithic people Hey guys, one last interruption. Editing Stefan here. As I'm saying this, it's August 30th. It takes a long time to David Reich just appeared on this podcast talking about this very topic, talking about how he believes Also likening it to European It's well worth a watch. I'll put it in the description. Just adding more nuance to this, adding more to the debate I'll get this video out as quick as I can. (Stefan laughs) Actually, no, it's not Holy moly. Another paper has just come out arguing that the plague didn't because of it being in the same cemetery. They're having different strains. They also found it in a dog. It's on the screen next to me. You can see there's not much consensus about this at the minute. And if everyone could so I could finish this video, that would be fantastic. Thank you. One really interesting to expand this work, would be to look at these huge urban areas that developed in the They're basically Europe's first cities. Thousands of people were They disappeared seemingly quite suddenly, for reasons that are heavily debated. Again, kind of connected to this transition to the Bronze Age. It would be really interesting that lived in these urban We basically just need more samples from earlier and from further east. - And it could also, of course, be a combination of different factors. Like it could be... Say the plague hitting first, and then war breaking out. It could also be a combination So, you could have a combination of the different sort of factors that have already been proposed. - It's fair to say at the minute, we can't definitively this plague had on the transition from the Neolithic to the Bronze Age. But it is extremely has been detected in this pivotal moment when the population changed so much. I can't help but believe Even though we cannot say that I can't help but think they are connected. That's just my opinion. I would like to leave you guys One last interesting speculation. Some daydreaming, existential dread maybe. Hopefully, on the screen right now, you are looking at a picture of one of the Sarsen stones at Stonehenge, which the Bronze Age people had carved little images of axes onto that. The ax was very symbolic to them. They had carved it onto Which they didn't build, right? Stonehenge was built by In my head, when I from the Bronze Age to the Neolithic, I had always imagined with these people. That the Bronze Age people turned up, and they in some way, interacted with the Whether that was was they had contact with each other. It's fascinating to imagine, where the Bronze Age people They never met the Neolithic people. They never met the builders of Stonehenge. And just sort of stumbled that they couldn't explain. Interesting to imagine that. It's possible. It's possible that that's Cool, well, anyway, that's all I know about See you guys. Thanks for watching. Boop! Hello, thank you for watching. I have a new video out on a Stoned Age, the archeology It's part archeology video, about a couple of hazy times in my life. It's a fun little video. It's not on YouTube Nebula is a streaming platform owned by the creators themselves. I honestly couldn't do what All the fancy footage of really and drone shots of tombs, all this stuff. It all comes from Nebula. And it's become one of the fastest growing and most interesting streaming sites on the internet for sure. If you love educational Not only do you get ad-free and tons of educational creators, but you also get a bunch Really high quality stuff. The one I'm most looking considering the recent politics that just occurred this week, all about the infamous generation that has dominated politics That's only just come out, so I think I'm probably maybe even this evening. See what went down. (Stefan chuckles) You also get early access like Real Engineering and Jet Lag. Jet Leg, the game. Can't live without that. I'm fully Team Adam, by the Just so you know. But yeah, now when you sign up to Nebula, you also get guest passes. So one week a month, you can your auntie, your estranged You can share Nebula with them. If all of this sounds good to you, go to Nebula.tv/stefanmilo. The link is down below somewhere. You can get it for a mere $3 a month. $3 a month, $36 a year. Is that right? Yes, it is. And you can get even a Christmas present to yourself. Huge thanks to Nebula for and helping me make what I make. And yeah, thank you so much for watching. Check it out. Go sign up for Nebula!