Hey there guys, Paul here from In this video we're going to be looking at three way switches for lighting circuits in North America. We're going to look at three depending on if you want to light fitting to be at the beginning, of the lighting circuit. Now I've included a handy PDF wiring guide for this video with detailed illustrations of each circuit as well as step by step instructions and part You can keep this guide and access them anywhere at anytime. Links for that in the video Now we're covering the but remember electricity is dangerous and can be fatal. You should be qualified and competent before carrying out any electrical work. So how do three way switches work? If we look at a three way switch we have four screw terminals. One is for ground, one and the other two are Inside the switch we have a track which electricity flows along. This is connected to the switch handle. When we flip the switch handle, the track will flip between This will change the path and that's how we'll control the light. The first circuit we're going to look at is where the light fitting For this circuit, we're going some three wire cable, four wire connectors, a ceiling box, a light fitting, two three-way switches and two switch boxes. For the incoming power supply, we take the black hot into the common terminal of switch one. We then run the black traveler wire from the left traveler and take this over to the of switch two. Then we run the black hot wire from the common terminal of switch two, over to the ceiling box Then we take the red traveler wire and run that from the right of switch one and take this over to the right traveler Now for the incoming neutral, we run that into the wire connector which would sit within the We then connect from this wire connector and run the white wire to a wire connector in switch box two. Then we run the final white wire from the wire terminal of switch two and take this over through the ceiling box and onto the light fitting which will complete the circuit. To provide some safety, from the incoming into a wire connector Then we run a ground wire of switch one, and connect this to the ground wire connector. We connect the next ground wire between the wire connector and the wire connector in switch box two. Then we run a ground to the ground wire connector also. Finally as the ceiling box is metal, we will run a ground wire in the box and connect this in switch box two. So there we have a complete circuit with a two wire cable on a three wire cable and another two wire cable from switch two over to the light fitting. Now if we power this circuit we see the electricity comes and passes across switch one and along the black traveler wire to switch two. The switch two is in the off position so the switch is broken When we flip switch two, and electricity can now through the light and back If we were to flip switch one, electricity can now flow across switch one and in to the red traveler wire but it stops at switch two as But by flipping switch two we The next circuit we'll look at is where the light fitting For this circuit we'll need five wire connectors, a two three-way switches and So from the incoming power supply, we will connect the black hot wire to the common terminal Then we run the black traveler wire from the left traveler and take this over to the wire Then we run another black wire from the wire connector and connect this into the left traveler Then we run the red traveler wire from the right traveler and connect this to the wire Then we run another red and connect this to the of switch two. Now we bring our neutral wire in from the incoming supply and connect that into a wire connector within switch box one. Then we run another neutral wire and run this from the wire connector through the ceiling box and connect it into the light fitting. Then we run a third white wire from the other light fitting terminal and we run this to the common We must mark both ends of this wire with black electrical Now to make the circuit safe, we bring our ground wire Then we connect to the and into the wire connector. Then we run another ground wire from the wire connector and bring this to the wire connector As the ceiling box is made of metal we will need to connect Then finally we want to ground switch two so we run a ground wire and bring that over to within the ceiling box. So there we go, a complete circuit where we have a two wire into switching box one and between both switches one and two and the light fitting we Now if we power the circuit we see that electricity across switch one, through the ceiling box and to the terminal of switch two. But the circuit is broken at switch two so the light is off. When we flip switch two, electricity can now through the light and back If we flip switch one, electricity will again be by the red traveler but it But if we flip switch two, then we complete the circuit The final circuit we'll cover is where the light fitting is For this type of circuit we'll need some two and three wire cable, a ceiling box, some wire connectors, two switch boxes, two three-way switches, a light fitting and some black electrical tape. So for this circuit, we'll hot black wire into the ceiling box first and connect this into a wire connector. Then we run a white wire and connect this into a wire connector within switch box one. We must mark both ends of this wire with black electrical Then we run another white wire from the wire connector and connect to the common terminal of switch two. Again marking the ends Now we run a red traveler wire from the right traveler and connect this to the of switch number one. Then we run a black traveler wire between the left traveler terminals of the two switches. From switch one, we connect a black wire from the common terminal and connect this to the light fitting terminal. Now to complete the incoming neutral and connect this to the other light fitting terminal. To make the circuit safe, we bring our incoming ground wire and connect this to a wire As the ceiling box is metal we will need to ground that Then we run another ground and another within switch box one. From there, we will connect to the wire connector. And finally, we run a ground wire from the ground terminal of switch two and over to the ground wire connector. So there we have a complete circuit, with a two wire cable into the ceiling box. A two wire cable to the first switch and a three wire cable When we power this circuit, electricity can flow through the hot wire and into the white wire Then it travels along the red traveler but stops at switch one. If we flip switch two, the electricity can now flow over and across switch two, then and back through the neutral. When we flip switch one, electricity can't make it past the switch, so the light is off. If we flip switch two, the so the light will turn on. Okay guys, that's it for this video but if you want to continue your learning then check out one of and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and of course TheEngineeringMindset.com.