Hey guys, Joe here. Some people would argue the most important Andy Warhol released his soup-er soupy pop But I think soup's best year came a decade Miller first cooked up primordial soup. Miller's experiment took some simple chemicals, up through a tube, zapped them with electricity, he found amino acids-the building blocks for life. This idea-that life's origins could be one. In the 1920s, two different scientists theorized "prebiotic soup". And this soupy speculation even goes back 1871 wondered if life may have formed from What made Miller's experiment so special could become cool life stuff super-easily. But... everything "living" we see today, built of such intricate machinery, it's existence out of some soup. That's because they didn't. We're going to go on a journey in search will be a few forks in the road, maybe a couple from a couple friends. We'll come to see that Miller's primordial But the FIRST question we should ask isn't Life on Earth couldn't exist before Earth billion years ago, at the dawn of the Hadean Soon after that, another planet collided with and created the moon in the process. After the crust cooled, there was even some Because for the next couple hundred million massive space rocks. The oceans boiled away, the crust melted again, until things settled down about 4 billion This is the earliest possible time that life of what we call the habitability boundary. And fossil and chemical evidence tell us that ago, what's known as the biosignature boundary. At some moment in here, non-life became life: Now, I don't have a time machine. As far as I know, no one does. Therefore we can't go back and find that But if we could, what would we look for? This brings us to the next big question on You'd think biology would have a good definition But as a biologist I can tell you this is In one chapter of biologist JBS Haldane's "I am not going to answer this question." Life is a board game, a delicious breakfast According to the dictionary, it's the time But none of these definitions really help I think we might be asking the wrong question, life is what living things do. In school, many people learn a checklist for to be "alive": MRS GREN. But this list came from looking at life as Life at the very beginning was probably much A physicist, Erwin Schrodinger, looked at only a physicist would see: According to the second law of thermodynamics, huge amount of order and complexity. In 1944, Schrodinger defined life as a struggle of decay, the preservation of DISequilibrium. Since then we're learned a lot more about is as inevitable as its decay. That sounds pretty good. Life creates these little closed systems where But this definition still leaves out one important Inside the very first living things must have information-instructions for building things Those molecules must have copied and made than the others. And a few of those codes and instructions did, so they made even more of themselves. What we're describing is evolution by natural life to move forward, it must have been there Life is a product of evolution. With all this in mind, maybe we're finally Life began the moment that molecules of information selection. And now that we have a definition has to do to be "alive". 1. A living thing must work to avoid decay and 2. To do that, a living thing has to create a 3. They have some molecule that can carry information 4. This information must evolve by natural selection The ultimate question is how would this actually Let's take these rules one by one. What would it require for these things to And-most importantly-how likely are each good 'ol real, actual, hard science?! Today, no matter where we look on the tree chains of folded amino acids. When modern cells make proteins, they copy RNA as a blueprint for making the proteins. We call this universal pathway the central because it sounds really cool, and because But there's a paradox hidden in here-a It's a chicken and egg problem! DNA needs proteins to make more of itself. And cells need DNA and the instructions it So which came first? We can solve this paradox in a pretty simple Just get rid of DNA and protein in the earliest RNA is the molecular cousin of DNA. It contains the same four-letter alphabet molecule, U. And instead of two strings in a helix, RNA RNA is special, because in addition to carrying fold up into interesting shapes and actually The same way that protein enzymes can do all ribozymes-can work life's machinery too. It's now thought that life began in an RNA Before DNA became a more permanent form of information and been the machines for all Unfortunately, the RNA-only world went extinct make these RNA enzymes today. Scientists have constructed ribozymes that And those copies occasionally have errors If you need more proof you can find it right The ribosome, the massive structure that stitches We also find nucleotides, the single molecular our cells need for metabolism. This all makes sense only if the earliest RNA. And it solves our chicken and egg problem. The RNA world takes care of two of our four (3), and that can evolve (4). To find answers for the other two, we need There's been a lot of theories about where Either life arose on Earth, or life arose It's well-known that space is full of the acids to DNA and RNA letters... ...buried inside meteorites like this one It shows the chemistry that makes biological But the idea that life was delivered to Earth name panspermia... well there's just no explain the origin of life anyway. It just moves it somewhere else. Life probably started here. No... zoom out a little. We know early Earth had plenty of chemical idea of primordial soup is that soup can't react without outside energy. We get a hint of where this primordial energy Instead of lightning, or heat energy, our on one side of a wall, let 'em flow downhill, cellular machinery (and make things like ATP We burn food to keep our hydrogen pump going, able to do this, because tacos hadn't been Instead, they would have needed some natural bottom of the ocean. Deep-sea hydrothermal vents are covered in served as molds for the first cells. Molecules with one oily water-hating end and forming bubbles and sheets all on their own and there were plenty of these in the chemical to the first cell membranes. These vents also create natural streams of the rock. Imagine an early life form sitting there, with a free source of energy flowing by, powering and resist entropy. But this would have been the absolute simplest For this life form to become life that looks had to happen: it had to switch from storing using DNA. Instead of using RNA and ribozymes to run stitching amino acids into proteins. This opened up new possibilities for making free-living and more complex. One of these complex life forms is the ancestor common ancestor, or LUCA. This is the end of our journey, searching A lot has happened since. This story is based on things we've actually We've figured out when life could have started. We've come up with rules for what life is. We've found clues inside our own cells that rules, and where that life might have started. The only question we haven't answered is science, is it? There's still quite a few gaps to fill in nice, neat answer for how life started, you're Life is just a thing that happens. It's still happening today, and it will place it can happen. Darwin didn't know it when he wondered about giving rise to life, but his theory of how powerful it encompasses life not just in its Stay curious. Wow. That was a LOT. This is probably the deepest story I've that involves some of the science I actually I hope you enjoyed it too. But this is only part of the story of how What happened before, to made Earth a place And what happened after chemistry became biology, tree of life? For those answers, go check out these videos