Sponsored by Omaze. solar and wind power are for generating clean generation creates a problem. You generate and don't have enough energy when you do for a future built on renewables. We have the grid scale energy storage systems using and pump hydro storage systems, but the logistics There's a potentially faster way to build out About a year ago I had a Tesla Powerwall installed stretch my solar power generation into the night, plant system with over a thousand other homeowners with my Powerwall and if virtual power plants can I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. So about a year ago I had my Tesla a video on that detailed my installation I'd strongly recommend checking it out because Bottom line: I had a horrible experience with a Span smart electric panel installed, which and they helped to clean up and fix all of the Since November of 2020 my Powerwall has been solar production into the evening and some which isn't enough to contain all of so I'm still exporting a large amount In my area I have full net metering, which gives grid, my utility wipes off 1kWh of use from my get someone who doesn't live in my area commenting which I find funny. They typically reference It's not a universal credit, so you've got to I get 100% of the value back, which in essence cost-wise. That actually makes home batteries And that brings up the giant question of why of getting a home battery installed. Is it based on your goals, but that basically boils saving money, environmental concerns, and You may only care about one of those so you have to evaluate this based on that. but don't want to break the bank doing so ... so Which brings me back to net metering. If I like a lot of you have brought up in comments me wholesale prices for each kWh I put into the off by getting me back the full value of each kWh the energy for myself. We also don't have time home batteries can help pay for themselves. This it's cheap, like in the middle of the night, and is most expensive, typically in the evenings. against a battery investment. From a pure cost shifting my energy use or hoarding the electricity But that's where virtual power plants come in. But before I get to that, how would you like to to win a $4.3 Million Los Angeles dream house? for the charity, Rebuilding Together. They're people with disabilities, and neighbors with Rebuilding Together has helped to revitalize schools, and community centers. They've also been natural disasters. It's a great charity that's Donate $10 and you're automatically entered which is an insane 5-bedroom, 6-bath, everything including an in-home movie Oh ... I almost forgot to mention the putting of for a house that's also located in the have the option to choose a multimillion-dollar Enter for your chance to win this $4.3 Million fantastic charity, Rebuilding Together. Go to and to all of you for supporting the channel. In New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and available through National Grid and have home batteries or inverters from Enphase, can enroll in the Connected Solutions program. like this springing up around the world. One of power plant system they set up in Australia. Just that system. By linking together thousands they can create one massive virtual battery. the largest purpose built grid scale batteries Reserve can supply 150MW of power, while many of In my area, there are 1,264 systems enrolled When you sign up, you're allowing the utility which helps in moments of peak demand. The between July 1st and September 30th, Each event can last up to 3 hours and will the number of events per participant to 30-60 receive $225 per the average kW your system In my case I have one Powerwall, which means so obviously my average will be somewhere and I'm drawing from the battery at the same time. using at the time. If my house was pulling 2 kW which hits my single Powerball's capacity. If you're curious what this looks like, here's hit 100% charge from my solar panel production at was running completely off of solar power with before 5:00pm my battery starting discharging It worked out to about 3.4 kW of power output By about 7:00pm the event was over and That meant sitting at its minimum charge level, we never noticed that any of this was happening Based on the averages I've seen cited, you can single Powerwall, minus Tesla's cut they take so far for $772. My Powerwall will be part of the $4,000 total once the program is over. Given that plus installation, this isn't going to pay for the system. The more battery capacity you have, the payback could end up covering one full I asked Eversource how the system performed 1,264 homes participating, which ended up And there was an average of 5kW load shed per payout of $1,125. What I find interesting is but Tesla Powerwall owners end up losing a The most interesting part of this particular in an effort to save themselves money, and the provides. Pilot programs like this have shown a similar program in Vermont that paid back in a consumption during New England peak hour, In 2019 after adding more batteries to it saved about $900,000 from a single hour of see why utilities are willing and able to offer to In fact, National Grid in Rhode Island the Connected Solutions program. Almost makes And in Massachusetts, if you install a battery and you can be enrolled in the SMART battery adder, based on the size of your solar panel system. of 8 kW here in Massachusetts, you could And it pays out over the course of 10 years, of the VPP program. So in my area it may shifting energy use or net metering shortfalls, could erase an additional $6000 - $12000 for panel and battery capacity. That's in the realm of But all of that brings me back to those three main and emergency backup &amp; energy independence. you could make a battery make some financial For environmental concerns, it makes perfect and reduce your home's carbon footprint. virtual power plants, you're helping your local or natural gas peaker plants spinning up as you're helping to reduce the effects of energy in the middle of the day when it isn't That last area of energy independence and It's all about what you're willing to pay to When I've talked about blackouts mainly in Europe, leave comments asking It really depends on where you live. I'm in the infrastructure, which is mainly power lines get hurricane force winds with winter nor'easter stick to the lines and weigh them down. Or falling In my area, it's not that bad, but does In fact, since I've had the Powerwall there minutes and the third lasted for about 2 hours. friends a few towns away that have the power go depends on where you live. I know families that for whole home backup that cost thousands electricity in a blackout. Batteries can do that So do I think it's been worth it for me. My Powerwall was part of the Tesla Referral But my wife and I are actually in the process into in about a year or so. (Fingers-crossed.) solar panels and a battery system. In fact, I So I'll be putting my money where my mouth it's a big yes. But you'll And if you're interested in researching I'd strongly recommend checking out Energysage reviews of products and you can use Energysage to a solar installer on my current home and loved the program, so if you live in the US, you can use my installers in your area. Check out the link in of solar installed through my portal. That's like So what do you think? Would you want a battery in a virtual power plant system like this? Jump as always to my patrons and a big welcome to new William Van Vechten, Jim Nyhus, Russell Overland, All of your direct support really helps with dependence on the almighty YouTube algorithm. be sure to check out one of the ones I have linked bell if you think I've earned it. Thanks so much