- Traveling at 150 miles per hour, USAir Flight 1493 descends - What the hell? - The aircraft was fully - At one of the busiest a Boeing 737 has just exploded But the full scope of this tragedy is far bigger than anyone can imagine. The Port of Miami, December 19th, 2005. Chalk's Ocean Airways flies sea planes in and out of this busy waterway. Today, Flight 101 from Fort Lauderdale is making a brief stop over Michelle Marks is in She was promoted to - Fuel conditioner. - First Officer Paul DeSanctis joined the airline eight months ago. The Miami seaplane base The crew has to keep a as they taxi through one of Flight 101 will take off from X44, a seaplane base near a channel - Prepare for takeoff. Ready to take off. - Both pilots have their It's to prevent the captain from inadvertently pulling - 45 knots. 50 knots. (plane whirring) - This is the moment most passengers are Half speed boat, half - 75 knots. 80 knots. - For the pilots, is often the most difficult but this takeoff goes smoothly. Flight 101 is no longer a boat, it's now a plane en route to Bimini. It's 2:38 in the afternoon. (eerie music) The plane's flight path where sun bathers and Just less than a minute into the flight, the Grumman Mallard is well below the clouds. Then, (passengers screaming) The plane rolls violently and dives. The pilots barely have time Their struggles are in vain. (passengers screaming) By chance, a tourist from New York catches Flight 101's final 60 seconds after takeoff, the Two lifeguards are the first rescuers to go looking for the plane, but the effort is futile. All 20 people on board are dead including pilots Paul Media coverage of the crash gives investigators a very The video only captured the final seconds of the plane crash, but it confirms eyewitness reports that a wing ripped off in midair. As with most aircraft, the mallard's wings are The spars run the length of each wing. In between the spars are Together, these parts which also doubles as a fuel tank. Over the years, the wing box Chalk's mechanics had patched which is not unusual especially a sea plane. But when investigators examined the rest of the Chalk's fleet, they find that the mallards than they imagined. Years earlier, a mechanic on the lower surface of the wing. He repaired it by drilling a It's called a stop drill hole. But the stop drill holes didn't work. Even as mechanics put in more (drill whirring) Investigators now know long before the day of the accident. What they don't understand is why the crack could not be stopped. - Approved? - But a glimmer of an answer comes when they learn the plane was sending out warning signs of a deeper, According to the log, fuel leaks from the right wing were repaired again and again, Just two days before the While doing routine a mechanic came across fuel The procedure for plugging a leak was to apply a chemical sealant to the inside of the empty fuel tank. The sealant would take a day to dry, then the plane could be refueled The leak should have been a clue that the crack in the wing skin was just the tip of the iceberg, that there was a much with the wing's interior structure. Clint Crookshanks examines the pieces that make up the right fuel tank. - Some kind of sealant. - He wonders why the fuel leaks persisted in spite of the constant - Okay. Hand me that scraper, please. Thank you. - Beneath the layers of sealant, he finds the answer. - Bingo. - Cracks in a critical support beam called a Z stringer. It's the piece that the plane's skin was directly attached to. - All right, will you and then get some pictures, okay? Thank you. (camera shutters) - Crookshanks finds evidence that Chalk's mechanics had The broken Z stringer Now with every takeoff and landing, the plane's skin was absorbing the forces. Over time, the skin The final outcome was inevitable. (passengers screaming) Korean Airlines Flight 007 and all 269 people on board have vanished. All efforts to contact - There was concern that it or crashed or within hours, the story began circulating in Washington that the Soviets had been involved. - As the world waits for US military officials At the time of the flight's disappearance, US soldiers heard what they thought was a routine Soviet training mission. (Soviet speaking in Russian) It doesn't seem possible that the Soviets would actually shoot but American officials have little doubt. The next morning, US Secretary delivers an unusually blunt statement. - The United States reacts Loss of life appears to be heavy. We can see no excuse whatsoever - 1983 is the height of the Cold War. Russia and much of Eastern Europe are united by Communist ideology. Ruled with an iron fist, the Soviet Union is locked in with the West. - Relations were bad, but how dangerously bad they were. - Initially, Soviet for the KAL disaster. - The story came out of Moscow we intercepted it, tried to make a stop. It didn't, it flew away. - But soon they reversed A Soviet fighter jet did in but they insist the attack was justified. - The Soviet view was that perhaps carrying instruments, cameras, recorders and so forth. - The Soviet Union claims flight 007 entered highly restricted airspace under orders from the US Government. But the US insists KAL 007 was The dispute only heightens In a rare move, US officials share highly from the night of the shootdown. A top secret technology can track the movements of every military and civilian plane around the globe. What it reveals about KAL 007 is stunning. The plane was way off course. For almost its entire the flight had been drifting north. By the time it was shot down, Flight 007 was 350 miles north and had already flown in The Soviets were telling the truth. - And then it becomes a why was it off course that much? - In the months following unidentifiable human remains Small pieces of wreckage are also found. Investigators have no doubt that the plane was completely destroyed. Investigators have no clear idea where Flight 007 went down. But there are some people who do. Top Soviet officials are hiding the fact that one month after the incident, not only did they find the wreckage, they also found the (Mikhail speaking in Russian) - It was a big pile of debris. They took down this pile until they found the black boxes. There were two of them. - But the Soviets keep The information is locked away. (suspenseful music) Until nearly 10 years later. After the turn of the decade brings a jubilant end to the Cold War, Glasnost ushers in a new (protestors cheering) (suspenseful music continues) - Eager to break with the past, the new administration in - The actual unveiling of the was a total surprise. And suddenly this new material - So I knew they're I wanted to have the facts from the tapes and then see how does those facts compare to what we wrote in 1983. - In 1992 during official Russian leader Boris Yeltsin hands over the long - I was approached by KGB general and he told me that you but I have had the recorders for 10 years. I had them in the safe in my office. I knew it was a big international secret, it bothered me tremendously every day when I came to the and I knew the recorders were there. He told me you may not understand that this is the happiest day in my life. - Investigators have long suspected that the crew either misprogrammed or left it in the wrong mode. Sat on constant magnetic heading, the flight data recorder finally provides the definitive answer. - The data revealed that the aircraft was on constant magnetic heading from soon after takeoff There was no deviation whatsoever - The crew of KAL 007 never activated the way - Gear up. - Landing gear up. - It seems they simply forgot a basic step in their It's early December. A massive winter storm is pounding the Eastern United States. - Well, this is a pretty for this time of year. We're getting a mixed bag of precipitation and weather across the - For most people, the winter weather is no But for those who fly, the - A Continental Airlines commuter plane with 48 people aboard crashed into a home in suburban Buffalo. No survivors. - People are making life and based on the weather. Should I go or should I not go today? And once they're up in the air, how am I gonna make a decision that's gonna keep myself, my passengers, or my - On this day, flights have been delayed and canceled. Thousands of travelers are affected. That's largely because have decided that it's unsafe for pilots to fly in this weather. - Our mission here is to - What's happening now, it's - Looks like some discrete - This room is every pilot's first line of defense against It's the federal government's in Kansas City, Missouri. 24 hours a day, seven days a week, the meteorologists in this room scan the skies across the United States for the weather that The storm they're tracking today is just that kind of weather. - What we're monitoring in the Carolinas and continuing to get severe thunderstorm warnings - The meteorologists have moving towards Atlanta, Georgia. They've warned pilots and of the looming danger. The result is immediate. - So you had planes that could not take off, then you had planes that were arriving that were unable to land, and then you have to factor in that they were going several hundred miles around this line of thunderstorms. - Today, the people who work here have to find a way to keep that are rolling to the south. - As traffic managers, we in routing safe routes for aircraft to go around those thunderstorms because they just can't go So using these two images together, we can get a good three dimensional or even four dimensional and how moisture is - Thunderstorms are a The clouds that contain them are massive. They're usually much too tall to fly over and the weather inside - In no instance does any aircraft want to go into a thunderstorm. Lightning strikes, hail can and in the extreme cases, there can be so much liquid precipitation in that thunderstorm that it'll cause a jet - The meteorologists here understand the danger of thunderstorms. - Tower, Delta 191 heavy out - 191 heavy. - We're not getting any bad or from other pilots, which we rely on as they come through it. - As the pilots of Delta the rain begins to fall harder. At the foot of the runway, one of the most ferocious stands in their way. - Before landing check. - Landing gear. - Down, three green. - At the time, the type of storm the barely has a name. John McCarthy is one of on these storms. - It is a tiny thing, compared to a big storm or it's just like a needle in the haystack. - The needle is a microburst, one of the deadliest and at the time, most poorly understood weather phenomena. They've taken down airliners before. But as Delta 191 makes its approach, there are no warning systems that can effectively alert the pilots of the danger they're in. - Prior to 1985, the were built to detect thunderstorms, essentially heavy areas of precipitation. They were not effective, they were not even designed - If you're at the kitchen and it goes straight down and it splashes out in all directions, and that's kind of what a microburst is, except that it is extremely bad news if you're an airplane flying through it. - When a plane hits a microburst, it encounters a complex and Downdrafts and tailwinds batter a plane. It's a deadly combination. (lightning crashes) Just short of the runway, Delta 191 flies into the microburst. - You're gonna lose it all of a sudden. There it is. (passengers yelling) Push it up. Push it way up! Way up! - Way up. Hang on to the son of a- - He's gonna crash! (plane explodes) - The pilots of Delta Flight to recover from this situation - I must have caught sight of him just at the last millisecond and he cartwheeled into and then of course there was fire. Not a ball of fire, but a wall of fire. - Just 27 people survived 137 people are killed. After the crash of Delta 191, the Federal Aviation Administration races to develop technology that can prevent microbursts - If there is one crash and say this made things safer it was Delta 191. - By law, airplane manufacturers must prove their planes can be When the 737 was introduced in the UK, Boeing demonstrated that 130 in just 75 seconds. - All public transport aircraft are certificated to the same criteria and that is that the total must be capable of using half the exits in the aircraft, as generally one side or the other, within a maximum of 90 seconds. - A full Boeing 737 is in less than two minutes. More of the passengers on Flight 28 should have been able to get off, but 90 seconds after most of the passengers - It just seemed to go on forever before they started evacuating. And that's when I thought, It's gonna blow up with all of us on it. - The most important lesson of British Airtours Flight - The reason why the wasn't achieved in 90 seconds is because the conditions are completely different from - The evacuation of Flight 28 was slowed by the fact that in the bulkhead opening, separating the main cabin from the galley. - We wanted to start to but there's a bit of a bottleneck and nobody was coming forward. - But with every second, their odds of surviving are decreasing. Flight 28 is becoming a death trap. - 28, you are clear for takeoff. - Stop! - 137 People are on board this British Airtours flight. - I could see orange flames inside the back of the engine. - Within minutes, nearly half of them will be dead. The fire in the cabin had been severe but should not have been catastrophic. This leaves investigators Why did so many people die? And what caused the fire? During a routine inspection mechanics had found small cracks in some of the combustor cans. Since the repair, there were from the engine that A damaged combustor can for the problem, but the log entry led that the problem had been fixed. Investigators still don't understand how a fire outside the plane spread into the cabin Believing he had a blown tire, Captain Terrington made - Stop it. 28, we're abandoning takeoff. - Captain Terrington turned his plane to the right and brought it to a stop. He couldn't have realized that doing so would make the problem far worse. - There was a cross from the left side of the aircraft that was carrying the fire that was pulled underneath the left wing, it carried that fire aft, and under the rear fuselage in between the wing and the tail plane. - The wind wrapped the fire around the back of the plane and into the cabin. Investigators have discovered and the conditions that caused Now, investigator Ed Trimble surrounding the Manchester accident, to figure out why so many died. Investigators learn that most of the dead were not found in the worst Autopsies will point to the For investigators trying the most important tool It records every detail in the cockpit and tells investigators But in the crash of Northwest it wasn't what investigators it was what they didn't hear that would lead to an An alarm should have sounded when the pilots tried to take off with their flaps retracted. But for some reason, investigators can't hear it - When it activates, it alerts the crew that the aircraft is that's safe for takeoff. - Technicians analyze the for more clues and they The takeoff configuration warning is what would've alerted them - Flats. (buzzes) Slats. (buzzes) Flaps. - It's a warning, it's meant to alert you. And if it's going off it gets on their nerves and so apparently pilots those take off warnings. - There's a line here. - For the crew, it's been a long day. - Another one here about 25 miles wide. - Well, if we get out we won't have a delay. - They've already flown from Minneapolis, Minnesota and then Detroit. Phoenix is their next stop on the way to Santa Ana, California. The plane's 149 passengers Paula Cichan and her family They're heading home to Arizona. Her daughter Cecilia Flight 255 begins moving - Northwest 255. - But because of the weather, - Northwest 255 now exit at - The ground controller gives them a last minute runway change with disastrous results. (somber music) - I prayed that everybody made it, but I thought it was just a small plane 'cause it happened so quickly. I didn't know it was a bigger - Just minutes after impact, paramedic Tim Schroeder is on the scene looking for survivors. - I had never been to an We were struck by the magnitude The large scale of it, it - From the little that's it is unlikely they'll find anyone alive. - It was probably a minute went by and Dan actually heard a noise. He asked me a couple times do And then finally I heard it and it was more like a faint cry. When I turned my head to the right, I saw an arm underneath the seat. - One, two, three, lift! - She was covered in - Somehow, four year old Cecilia Cichan has survived the crash. But she's badly injured. Tim Schroeder races her to the hospital. - We have a four year old girl found alive in the wreck and - If Cecilia survived, perhaps others have as well. - We can't be sure why - Investigator Jack Drake needs to know what contributed to and all the other victims. - Ladies and gentlemen, we're currently number one for departure. We should be rolling in a couple minutes. - Let's do the checklist. Brakes? - Set. Windshield heat. Is on. - There are hundreds of small steps for a crew to take to get a Most of them are covered by checklists. - The checklist is a means important items are - Looks like bags are all in. - Why don't you tell - 144,000 pounds of hurdles down runway 3C. Within 17 seconds just under the aircraft begins It seems the crew overlooked If the crew tried to take it would be an astonishing blunder. To get the plane off the ground, the flaps on the wings to the 11 degree position, but the way the flap handle is damaged suggests the plane's flaps - If the slats are retracted and for the most part the airplane is not capable of flight. - It appears the downing of Flight 255 was caused by pilot error. For some reason, a seasoned crew forgot one of the most basic steps involved in getting an airplane off the ground. The cause of the crash remains a mystery. 18 days into the investigation, the Canadian government appoints to lead a more wide ranging inquiry into all aspects of the aviation system that might have contributed - The government was looking and preferably one who had - Moshansky is an experienced pilot with 13 years on the bench. He will work closely with and aviation consultant Frank Black. The new team's first step, assessing the plane's technical systems. - The electrical system, the hydraulic system, the fuel system, all of these systems are of what is their history and what remnants are that can be examined. - Clues to a possible system failure arise when Sonia Hartwick - As we took off, I noticed that the wings just became a solid - Investigators consult the F28's manuals to study its de-icing systems. They find that only the wings' - The aircraft had heated leading edges on the wings. - I wonder if the anti-icing - And the heat was provided by bleed air from the compressors on the engine. They found the valves that access to the leading edges. And they had tested the valve and it did. - The anti-icing system was working. But since it only heats the leading edge, it likely didn't clear ice that formed on the surface of Flight 1363's wings. Investigators suspect what experts call wing contamination, may have played a major role in the crash. To verify that suspicion, Rohrer and his team meet - Thanks for coming. Curious - Jack Van Hanks, who had extensive aerodynamic studies and data on the effects of contamination - Fokker engineers have run simulations of the crash. - They were able to in terms of the performance simulating the type of loads, that the Dryden aircraft - Investigators make a crucial discovery about the design of the F28. Because of the angle of the wings, a very small amount of ice makes the plane susceptible to stalling. - They concluded that even the most minute bit of contamination on the wing would disrupt the airflow - Well, that answers a lot of questions. - The simulations support - It just barely got airborne and then hitting trees decelerating to the point where it broke up. (plane explodes) - Investigators are now certain that contaminated wings caused the crash. But what's still unclear is why the plane was not March 10th, 1989. It's 11:39 AM at Dryden Ontario's airport. Light snow falls as stops in the remote northern community on its way from Thunder Bay to Winnipeg. As First Officer Keith Mills checks on weather conditions, from making a phone - It's getting worse. What's the latest? - And it won't clear until late afternoon. - Check that. Quite heavy snow. Looks like it's gonna be a bad one. But it's still within our takeoff limits. - Well, that's good. We got a lot of people who Let's hope it holds. - Temperatures hover around freezing. Captain Morwood uses the already running to fire engine number one. Morwood and Mills are both However, they've each flown fewer than 100 hours in the Fokker F28. The multimillion dollar aircraft is the first Air Ontario jet to serve the remote 24 minutes after landing in Dryden, Flight 1363 is ready to leave. Finally, an hour behind schedule, the plane taxis to runway 29. Captain Morwood performs heating the engines to rid them of any accumulated snow and ice. Then he begins his roll down the runway. - V1. - The F28 reaches its takeoff speed. - Rotate. (foreboding music) Clearly, there's something wrong. The F28 struggles to get airborne. The pilots are helpless. 49 seconds after lifting off, Air Ontario Flight 1363 west of runway 29. 45 people survived the accident, but 24 people do not, including Captain Morwood Investigators are certain mishandled a risky maneuver. Bechet has more questions for the captain. - What did you do when you saw the trees? - I did what any pilot would - Investigators learned that in the final - Take off. Go run power. - Captain Asseline applied full throttle. - When I was waiting for that I realized in front and I was waiting, - But he claims the And when they finally - I tell you, the engines did not come on - He's convinced the engines didn't respond quickly enough in the final seconds of the flight, and makes his mission to prove it. He uncovers an Airbus document warning of a defect in the A320, which states that the plane's engine speed could stagnate at low altitude. A condition caused by poor airflow. When this occurs, the But investigators can find in any of the data from the plane. In the five seconds after Captain Asseline applied full power on the thrust levers, the A320 twin engines reaching 84% thrust, close to full power, just before the plane hit the trees. - When you put from idle to full power, you have the impression for a few seconds and But that was normal, exactly as predicted by the certification. We were able to compare from the flight data recorder. There was nothing wrong with the engines, any of the two engines. - Chief Investigator Claude Bechet has a new headache. Captain Asseline is convinced there is a conspiracy against him. He cuts off all cooperation - Investigation Committee had but I began to be suspicious the aircraft is good, Pilot error, pilot error, pilot error. All that was a big, big, - Captain Asseline begins a campaign to challenge the French investigation. He appears on British television to make a dramatic assertion. - When I pull the stick to up position, the flight controls, the lever to control go to down position. So on any aircraft, if you ask up, following the lever to control goes to up and on that one it went to down. Why? That would be the good question. - His accusations go about the aircraft. That Airbus's fly-by-wire system had given the A320's Asseline's claim that the plane didn't follow his instructions is supported by data from The black box recorded every movement of the pilot's sidestick controller. It does show that Captain Asseline pulled it back Investigators compare it with what the plane did in response. They make a perplexing discovery. - He's telling the truth. - Captain Michel Asseline is one of Air France's He's the head of pilot training for the company's newest plane, the Airbus A320. - I was in charge of the launching The company used me to Speeches to make, I was on newspaper. - The aircraft is booked to perform a low altitude flyover It's only a five minute where the air show is being held. For this sleepy Alsatian town, the air show is the (Jean-Claude speaking in French) - The air show drew There was significant - Many passengers have friends and family watching from the ground. - Air Charter 296, good afternoon. - Habsheim, hello. We are coming into view of - Yes, I can see you. You're cleared. The sky is clear. - Gear down. - Flight 296 makes a gentle turn to line up with the runway. The pilots must now lose to get into position for the flyover. - 200. 200. (reporter speaking in French) - For Asseline, this will be the most He must keep the plane with the nose up, but not too high. (Jean-Claude speaking in French) - I looked at the ground and said, &quot;Look, he's not high enough because right out your window.&quot; - Okay, I'm okay there. Disconnect outer throttle. - He disables one of the so that the computer won't Only now, Captain Asseline sees something that makes his blood run cold. There's a forest in the path - 30. - He selects the highest thrust setting and pulls back on the controls, expecting the aircraft to pull up, but the plane keeps dropping. - Merde! (Jean-Claude speaking in French) - I started to see through the window tree branches. I was astonished. You can imagine being on a a bumpy trail, driving at and you're shaking from all sides. It was like that. I was saying to myself the because if the plane stays If it breaks up, we're done for. - Still full of fuel, the right wing of the jet is sheared off. The fuel ignites immediately on impact. - And we stopped very quickly and on the ground, I broke my seat just because I was holding very firmly. I broke my seat and I could - The first officer is badly injured. - And he has a lot of blood he hit something in front of him. - What the hell have you done? - I don't know. I don't understand. - June 30th, 1956. Los Angeles International Airport. TWA Flight 2 takes off The TWA flight is a Lockheed one of the most advanced Just minutes behind TWA Flight 2, United Airlines Flight 718 takes off from the same airport The system to track both of the planes is far from high tech. - The air traffic control center consisted of a room with a and the air traffic controllers were moving markers on that map to indicate where each airplane was and its last known position. - The pilots radio their position to company dispatchers. Controllers use this information to get a rough idea of their flight plans. - They were on radar for but once they got outside - They were flying under The rule is called see and be seen. So I see you, you see me, we stay apart and we're - As the two planes get closer to the Grand Canyon, the - Both captains were used on a clear day. They could move the airplane to the left, move it to the right a little bit, point out the canyon to people - The United Flight from the right, unaware their People make mistakes. It's a lesson the airline A lesson that fundamentally shape how planes travel across the skies today. Mistakes can be made The tools controllers use to - Controllers have been for a long time. - The failing system is putting passengers at risk. Labor Day weekend, 1986. Approach controller Walter White guides Aeromexico Flight at Los Angeles International Airport. - Nine zero descend and maintain 6,000. - The airspace around LAX is very tightly controlled. It's called the TCA, the As Aeromexico Flight 498 Walter White sees a plane he - Okay, you are right in Roman 6-6 Romeo, I suggest in the future you look at your TCA chart. - Walter White hustles the small plane out of the controlled airspace, that there's another plane - One-two-four, decimal 905. Thank you. - Captain Christian Hecquet and First Officer Joel with over 12,000 hours of The flight is a short hop and the city of Strasbourg in The crew is flying an Airbus A320, one of the most technologically advanced commercial airplanes in the world. Cockpit of the A320 is also very different from other planes. Instead of analog gauges, the pilots look mostly Even before takeoff, the to land on a specific The captain initiates - Flaps towards two. - Flaps towards two. - Flaps at two. - Gear down. - Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to land in a few minutes. - Hecquet notices that the plane is traveling too fast, so They disrupt airflow over the wing, which helps create more - We have to watch our descent. - As it circled the mountain, the plane inexplicably entered a dangerously steep and rapid descent. But before the crew can - Merde! - The A320 is flown into The crash is catastrophic. Just minutes from Strasbourg airport, - Merde! - An Airbus A320 slams into a mountaintop. (passengers screaming) - Identify your position. - Flight 148 is no longer on radar, nor responding to radio contact. There are survivors. - And I'm panicked - With the smell of leaking the survivors move away But they are still in grave danger. It's bitterly cold. - We stay together - But the wait will be longer than anyone might expect. And what they don't realize is that no one knows where they are. - They could be anywhere in there. - I expect this in the but not in a highly populated area. - Officials need to but it's not as easy as it might seem. The airport's radar is not recorded. There has been no signal from and surprisingly, no one has reported seeing a plane go down. Landing at LAX can be The airspace around the airport On average, a plane arrives Each of its four runways handles Taxiways intersect the runways The airport can be a maze of following instructions Local controller Robin the two north runways at The investigation into on runway 24 Left focuses on with the two planes involved. The answer will raise alarming questions about the safety of all The air traffic control tapes reveal that Robin Wascher instructed and the USAir flight to use runway 24 Left at the same time. NTSB investigators now played a major role in - This situation that that no controller wants to go through. You train your whole career And when it does happen, you can't even describe the A situation like this could We are all human. - After the accident, and never worked as an air - 3875. Good night, ma'am. - Sunday 518, taxi cross runway 24 Left. - February the 1st, 1991, Los Angeles International Airport, LAX. - 246 Heading 270. Contact Thank you US 1493, you're - Cleared to land 24 Left 1493. - Traveling at 150 miles per hour, USAir Flight 1493 descends - What the hell? - I pointed to the aircraft and yelled USAir is crashing. The aircraft was fully engulfed in flames. - At one of the busiest a Boeing 737 has just exploded But the full scope of this tragedy is far bigger than anyone can imagine. Amid the wreckage, they have - This is Rescue 1. We've got a propeller - The discovery of a propeller has horrifying implications. - There's two planes down here. - My first thought was, oh my God, there was someone else under there and we didn't even realize it. - Emergency personnel find parts of the smaller planes strewn There were 12 people onboard the flight. None have survived. What's left of their plane and an abandoned building near the runway. With the plane now less than a controller in the airport's tower takes over to guide the - Lindbergh, PSA 182 downwind. - 22, roger. - Within the airport traffic area, which is that five mile radius, the airplanes coming into the airport, the land and take off are - The tower controller is in addition to the PSA 727. - PSA 182, traffic 12 - Because if there's only it requires some air because of the difference in - PSA 182, cleared to Land. - 182, cleared to land. - The jets have quite a than the Cessna so you have - It's now 9:00 AM. Many passengers in Flight 182 are planning to put in a (alarm beeping) - Gear down. - Minutes from landing, Pilot Bob Fox spots a distant plane. - There's one underneath. I was looking at that inbound over there. (plane crashes) Easy baby, easy baby. - A professional photographer happens to spot Flight 182 in flames. - Hey, what do we got here? - Huh? - Tuck, we're going down. This is PSA. - Okay, we'll call the equipment for you. - The approach controller's radar reveals that the 727 has collided with the Cessna. - Jesus Christ. It's an aluminum shower. - To have two aircraft is the worst nightmare I I don't think anything - This is it baby. Brace yourself. - Mom, I love you. (plane crashes) (fire truck blaring) - All of a sudden it just went right in, just a burst of flames. It was just incredible. (fire roaring) - Can't do anything about it. Come on. - And my hair stood up when I learned that This huge mushroom cloud of smoke and fire was seen by thousands of people. - Two planes have collided and fallen from the sky over San Diego. The city is in shock. But the full scope of the tragedy is only beginning to emerge. Investigators now realize why the pilot of a Cessna putting it on the same What's not in question is of the 727's crew to avoid the Cessna. In Washington, investigators last moments on the recovered - Alright, hit it. - Are we clear that's Cessna? - Supposed to be, I guess. I hope. - Oh yeah. Go back. - Philip Hobe focuses recorded 35 seconds before the collision. - Are we clear that's Cessna? - Supposed to be, I guess. I hope. (laughs) Oh yeah. Before we turned down land, Probably behind us now. - Stop it. - The PSA crew not only they assume they have already passed it. - It was right in front - The NTSP conducts a study to determine how long the PSA crew could see the Cessna - Well, welcome aboard. Now use the reference - They start by adjusting for optimal viewing using a device called the design eye reference point. - Now if you would, from my eye line to the Okay, now from the eyeball - Once the pilot's viewing positions have been determined, the to take panoramic images - Okay, let's have a look Would you put up the view- - He starts with the captain's view. Radar tracks provide the Cessna's heading, pitch, and bank angle. They plop this data on in ten second intervals. - Alright. Let's see what - What they find is surprising. A longer than expected time period in which the PSA crew - How can you miss a plane that Okay. Can you show me how you normally - But when investigators learn more about how PSA pilots adjust their seats, they begin to understand how the crew may have lost sight of the Cessna. - That's it? You don't - Investigators discover that many pilots adjust their seats to their own personal settings. From this new seat position, the Cessna's location on the The results show an important difference between the two seat settings. With the new setting, the crew would've had the Cessna in view for only five to 10 BEA Flight 609 prepares for from Munich Airport. The plane carrying the is drawing attention - You've got to remember, They're laughing and joking all the time, that sort of thing, but and there's a lot of - Little Johnny Berry, he said, &quot;We're all gonna get And Billy Whelan said, &quot;Well, At that point, I open my tie. - Ignition boost switches off. - Ignition boost switches off. - Wings. Still look good. No need to de-ice. Munich Tower Beeline 609 Zulu uniform. I'm ready to taxi, over. - Beeline 609. Your clearance void, if not - Roger, understand, valid till 04. - Captain Thain has just two minutes before the window for takeoff closes. If this third attempt is not successful, the flight may be canceled and his famous passengers - Munich 609 Zulu Uniform - Roger. - The runway is more than 2000 yards long. Even with their plan for the Elizabethan should be able to lift off just past 1300 yards. - So for the third time that day, they actually lined up the got the permission clear - Full power. Temperatures and pressures okay. Pole surging slightly. - He experienced a bit which he retarded the throttle slightly and then advanced it again. - Full power again. - Both engines sounding even now till we're going down the everything seems okay. - The pilots know what - I thought, there's more frightened than what I am. - 105. V1. - Velocity 1 is the speed at which a takeoff cannot The point of no return. - Raymond now is waiting, is anticipating now for which is V2. - At 119 knots, the plane But something goes wrong. They suddenly lose speed. - Christ, we're not going to make it! - There was no screaming, There was nothing like that at all. Darkness and daylight and You can't describe it. (plane crashing) - In March 1969, 11 years after the crash, the British government - Well, of course my family - Well, he knew that obviously and he was very pleased and happy because in this country - But BEA does not give him his job back. Captain Thain never flies again. In Germany, Hans Reichel never exonerate him. - I think there was a and strain and tension He was 54. - At Munich, there was 23 victims and Captain Thain was the 24th. - 10 years after the accident that killed eight of its players, Manchester United becomes to win the European Cup. - At last, Matt Busby, the maestro of Manchester United, had groomed a team great - A cup they might have won in 1958, if not for an aviation disaster that devastated the finest team of players Britain had ever assembled. Harry Greg continued playing until 1967. Now in his seventies, he dwells - I don't think about the accident, I think about what I was part of, a team of wonderful great journalists, great staff, everything was good about it. - Captain Thain's legacy is modern aviation's of the deadly effects of slush. - The problem is tackled now, and I would suggest it was of the Munich accident. Airport authorities approached the problem very, very differently. - By what he did with forcing this issue, he's probably saved countless lives and prevented more than one So in that sense, he's to be admired for what he did in those 11 years. - Mum was quoted to saying, I will never know.&quot; But he also left an which is, the difference and the possible is merely a - Los Angeles International Airport. At Terminal 1, a group of passengers and are making their way through security. A short while later, they board Pacific Southwest The flight from Los is one of the most popular also known as PSA. Among the 38 passengers including the airline's chief pilot. Captain Gregg Lindamood for 14 years. The father of three is also - Breaks. - Breaks set. - Flaps up. Spoilers retracted. - First Officer James Nunn only joined the airline He's also logged thousands - Thrust levers. (engine whirring) - Today they're piloting a British-built BAe 146 commuter jet. With quiet turbofan engines, it's designed for short haul flights over densely populated areas. (suspenseful music) The flight to San Francisco - So do you know what you're - Well, it's gonna be Nintendo I think they can both share it. - Anything to drink, guys? - I'm fine, thanks. - Okay, just holler if - Flight 1771 is cruising at 22,000 feet above the California countryside. (foreboding music) - Can you ask him how it's been? - Just over halfway through the flight, Captain Lindamood worries - Center, PSA 1771. Any We've had a little continuous light chop. - PSA, this is Rocky Mountain Center. It's not too bad. (gun firing) - My God. - The crew now has a much bigger problem on its hands. - Squawk 77. Squawk 77. We've had a gun fired - You wanna go to Monterey? Could you make it sir? - Moments later, Flight 1771 falls into a steep dive. (plane crashes) Flight 1771 crashes into an isolated hill 170 miles northwest of Los Angeles. It doesn't take long to No one has survived the crash. Investigators don't know who just that it was fired in the cabin. It's enough for them to finally of the horrific final (suspenseful music) - What the hell? - You can imagine what Ray as this person whom he had just terminated a few hours before, walks past him in the and then probably goes into the men's room and he's reading this note - Next, they hear the sound of a lavatory door opening. - So we're assuming that went into the restroom came back out, we heard just before the shots. - Ray! - Ray Thompson probably of all the deaths on that plane. - In less than a minute, a routine flight has become a nightmare. - There's a problem, captain. - What's the problem? - He was very careful. He had done the planning and we believe he followed - I'm the problem. (passengers screaming) - It wouldn't take much on a passenger part to know that they were - After shooting his former boss and three crew members, David Burke pushed Flight 1771 into a dive and left the cockpit. The airline's chief pilot was who could pull the plane out of the dive. - An off-duty pilot may have to try to render whatever once he realized something - What the hell are you doing? Don't do this. Come on. - But Burke had one bullet left. - What the hell are you doing?! - That may have accounted There are some who speculate that David Burke was taking his own life, the evidence suggests otherwise. Had David Burke been taking his own life, the gun would've fallen from his hand after he had shot himself. - But since a fragment was recovered from the trigger guard, Retsing reasons that the killer was alive, holding onto the gun until - Alarms were sounding in the cockpit. There was increased noise Then just before impact, it became silent. They tell us that it actually Of course, it would've been the final few seconds of their lives. - One man's rage meant two minutes of pure The plane is descending to the runway at 1600 feet per minute, faster than the space - That's fine. - I got the runway. It's off to the right over there. - Over there. - But the pilots can't slow their plane. In fact, Fitch must increase engine speed to keep the nose up. - Bring it on down. - Oh baby, he's around down. - Tell 'em we're two - Two minutes away from - I know we're close enough now, coming in fast enough now that That was the main thing. Whether we actually made the - The aircraft is still traveling much faster than normal. But the crew cannot delay any longer. This is their only shot at a landing. - Get on the brakes with me. - Yeah. - They will have only and reverse thrust to stop They won't be able to steer. No pilot at the controls has ever landed a DC-10 with or without flight controls. - Pull the power back. That's right, pull the left one back. - You could hear people crying you could hear people kind and I remember at the there's nothing else I Now I just gotta see what - The plane is 30 seconds from landing. - Brace, brace, brace. - Had no idea what was gonna We were going way too fast. We had no flaps, we had no brakes, and we had no way to steer the airplane once we did arrive at the runway. - At the very bottom, I was hoping to do the pitch pulling the nose up, causing the whole belly to and slow us down so on the landing gear and - Only 100 feet from the ground, the nose dips again, increasing - The nose lowered, the airspeed and the right wings And we couldn't have that. We - Close the throttles. - Close 'em off, pull 'em off. - I can't pull 'em off or we'll lose it. That's what's turning you. - And we both said okay, he's do whatever you have to do. There had to be complete trust. - Okay, okay. - Left, left, left, left, - We're turning, we're - Didn't get it quite My head smashed into the It's just like somebody had a giant hand on the back of my head and just was forcing me - We had hit just incredibly hard. I don't think for all the thoughts about what it might be like that I was ready for that impact. I could feel the plane go upside down and then we slid upside down and backwards for what seemed like forever. - Remember looking out the window and saw it got blue for a split second, darkened again to brown and green, and then more violence - Three months after United Flight 232 crash landed in Sioux City, Iowa, a farmer finds the crucial lying in her field about - I came upon the combine and the combine that was resisting, I backed up and I thought, - The massive disk is - How could it break like that? - The titanium alloy use is extremely strong and resilient. It shouldn't just snap in two. - Take a look at this. Didn't happen overnight. - A close examination of the broken part reveals surprising evidence - It's definitely fatigued. Can you cut me a small section from here? - Investigators need to know what had weakened this powerful alloy. They trace the fracture and remove the section for testing. - Well, well, well. - They find elements that should not be in the metal, nitrogen and oxygen mixed - A bad batch of titanium? - I'd say so. - Investigators conclude that a microscopic used to make the fan blade caused a crack that developed slowly over 17 years. The NTSB immediately recommends of all engine fan disks. Titanium is now melted to remove impurities. The DC-10's hydraulic Designers add a series of valves so that a line can be - Every accident is a learning experience. And Sioux City, although continues to be a learning experience. - Between the frigid waters of Cook Inlet and the towering Alaskan mountains, Anchorage International Airport awaits the arrival of a stricken 747. - Northwest 85, we have you on our radar. - The passengers and crew of Northwest 85 are now moments away from - As I was putting my own seatbelt on, I remember thinking to As in am I done here? Am I gonna And I thought about my kids - Northwest 85, cleared to land. Emergency equipment standing by. - Roger, cleared to land. - The crew still has no when the plane touches the ground. - There were close to 400 and a crew of 18 and some of them people like John and the other so waiting was hard. - Okay everyone, here we go. - Touchdown in five. Prepare for impact. - Brace, brace, brace! (suspenseful music) - You got it? - As planned, on touchdown, First Officer Fagan Captain Hanson guides the The timing is critical. One false step and the plane (suspenseful music continues) - We got it. Good job, Mike. Good job guys. So what do we do for an encore? - Not that. - Everyone in the cockpit and we just went (sighs). (pilots sighing, breathe heavily) - Once we were given the - Please remain seated until - I knew that I had to get and get these people out of this airplane. We did what we were trained to do. We did a great job. - Controllers can see - That's quite the rudder you got there. Must have been a hell of a ride. - Oh yeah, it was a real joy ride. - Almost two hours after at 35,000 feet, all 404 people on board are safely on the ground. (phone ringing) - When I've heard the crew was safe, of course it was an These guys had been tested and So it was really joyful. I mean, a sense of grace, it was all good. - We still don't know of the Northwest failure, but because of what we found with the second Air France failure, we needed to take corrective action to prevent similar - Investigators recommend to the control module. In the event of another failure, these new pieces will prevent the rudder from moving too far in either direction. - The changes that we've in the 747-400 fleet will of a rudder hardover. - An airworthiness directive from the FAA makes it mandatory for every 747-400 to be fitted with this new technology, eliminating the risk of another failure. But still, there is another one investigators seldom have With a catastrophic failure why didn't Flight 85 crash? One reason. The very design of this 747. - Having a split rudder is of this airplane. And in this case, it worked in their favor in the sense that if there and the actuator of then 100% of the yaw control which would've magnified the problem. - But technology alone In 1985, China Airlines Flight 006 also went into a sudden roll. But that flight plummeted before the pilots were How had Flight 85 escaped the same fate? - If Frank hadn't reacted the way he had, we probably would not be - Frank, have you got it? - Yes, I think I've got it. - Captain Geib's actions were critical to saving the plane. But what got it safely to - Every pilot in that cockpit Risks were being assessed and so on. - On landing, don't forget the rudder's - And when that happens Mike, I'll take the toller and the - Cockpit resource management to think this thing through and get the airplane on the ground. - I am proud to say we were We all did what we were trained to do. - Touchdown in five, prepare for impact. - And not one single person fell apart. - What do we tell the cabin? - Guys that we had in the Everybody communicated. - I'll go back and tell them. The more they know, the better. - I agree. I think we should tell 'em - I think this crew did a phenomenal job in getting this aircraft - In 2003, the Airline Pilots Association awarded the crew of with the Superior Airmanship Award. - More important than the award was the fact that we got the - We got it. - In this day and age hand flying is in danger We have to remember as pilots that we are there because We had prepared so well for this thing that failure was not an option. - They're gonna bring - Okie dokie. - Autopilot off. - Continental Express Flight 2574 and its 11 passengers nears from Laredo to Houston, Texas. It's the second flight They have already flown Now they're on their way back. 15,000 feet below, it's a on the farms and cattle - Captured on the right. - The pilots prepare for another routine landing. Captain Brad Patridge 43 year old First Officer Clint Rudosovich is very close to becoming They're less than 70 miles from Houston, home for both pilots. - Pushing this descent, - High speed, oil. - In the blink of an eye, the plane is plummeting It drops 2000 feet in just a few seconds. Far below, Cary Larby are working on their farm. - My brother and I heard an explosion. We both looked up in the air Seen a plane coming out of the air. The plane was spiraling. - Flight 2574 plummets to the ground at more than 300 miles an hour. - Autopilot. Autopilot. Autopilot. (alarm droning) (plane crashes) - 10 bodies were found four outside. - All 14 people on board including Patridge and The NTSP blames the accident on the failure to reinsert all the screws holding the left leading edge to the tail. - My heart reached out to the people that had worked on the airplane because I knew this was a human error. And whoever had been I'm sure was going to feel - The safety board also takes the unprecedented step of for not making sure all maintenance procedures were followed. Now that the leading edge has been found, investigators believe they finally have all - We were really excited You want to do your best in an accident and if you there would always be questions. - Right away they notice - The evidence indicated upper surface holes were absolutely clean. No elongation, no damage. - But the holes that hold the piece to the bottom of the stabilizer - The lower surface holes were elongated. They were cracked as if you have pulled it through the fasters. - The missing piece was found over a thousand yards There is no question it was the first piece - See, look here, look here. Absolutely perfect on top, - The fact that the screw holes on the top of the leading presents a frightening prospect. - It looked like there was no screws attached onto the top surface of the horizontal stabilizer leading edge. - The discovery presents the team with two important questions. Why were the screws missing and. - Could losing this actually - The leading edge of the plane, but it's not a moving part It's hard to see how losing it would cause the plane - At that time, I was kind of surprised that losing a composite leading edge would actually cause such a severe impact. - Now that all the pieces of the plane have been found, the investigation moves to NTSB headquarters in Washington DC. - Well, we were just trying of the puzzle together and try to make sure that we understood what the motion of the airplane was after the leading edge radius broke off. - The horizontal stabilizer is like an upside down wing. It pushes the tail down Reducing the force of the and makes the flight unstable. - There were still questions about maybe it would still be controllable and so we did an engineering simulation to try to see if maybe there was a way that the airplane could still fly after it lost the leading edge. But we found that it really was not a After the leading edge radius it was a negative five G pitch over. Once the angle of attack it actually broke the wing apart. So it was not a survivable event. - The simulations are conclusive. Losing just one leading edge along the horizontal stabilizer will send the plane into precisely what witnesses (plane crashes) - If there's any component of the wing that you don't want to - The team now knows the loss of the stabilizer's leading edge. Amid growing confusion in the cockpit, the pilots of Flight 2120 still don't know that - All they're dealing with is just all the alarm bells going off to indicate that equipment is failing left, right and center. - But mechanic Jean-Paul Philippe realizes they're in serious trouble. An onboard fire has the potential to consume the entire aircraft in seconds. - So things are rapidly - Okay, let's get squared away and see what we've got here, please. - In the cabin, it's becoming almost And Jeddah is still 11 miles away. - You've lost all hydraulics. - The odds on making are getting slimmer. - Dammit! I've got no ailerons. - Davidge can't steer the plane with no hydraulics. - Hang on, I've got it. - Captain Allan struggles but it too could fail at any moment. - Let's get lined up before Okay sir, we're at 2000 feet We are having flight control problems. - Roger, roger, I thought - Only now does the controller realize that the troubled aircraft - Turn left right now, heading - By this time it's Passengers are being engulfed by flames and bodies are starting to fall - The plane is right over Jeddah, a city of 2 million people. - Bodies were falling out of the aircraft 11 miles from the airport. - Okay sir, we're having trouble turning. We are having flight control problems. We will try to turn left. We are having flight control problems. - From the situation, it would've made certainly for approach and landing - How much further? - 10 miles, 1700 feet. - Choking for air, some passengers try to open the doors. At this speed, it's impossible. - No. Go! - Jeddah 2120, clear to runway 34 Left. - Okay, we're coming straight in. We land on the left. Require emergency vehicles immediately. We have a fire. We will - Jeddah 2120, clear to land - There it is, it's two miles out. - Alright. Let's get on the ground. I've lost elevators. Christ, I have no control! Landing gear down. (plane crashes) - The fiery explosion and sudden impact with the ground has all but obliterated Flight 2120. (somber music) 247 passengers and 14 This is the worst accident and the deadliest crash At the Royal Canadian technicians have analyzed the Tests reveal two layers - The readings for the tire and the actual readings showed 20 to 30 PSI to operate the plane and tires safely. So the only conclusion that is that the entries were falsified. - Tell me what the plan was for the tires. - With this troubling new information, investigators now turn their who last worked on the plane. They learn that four days before the crash at a stop in Ghana, Africa, mechanics wanted to change the tires. The tread was beginning to The investigative team wants to learn more about how Nationair managed Bill Taylor is joined by - What we did was look at and we looked at human factors. Basically, everything that had to do with the operation of the aircraft. - You're not gonna - Taylor uncovers evidence was never carried out. A fax from the Nationair ordered it stopped so the - They had a facsimile come - Forget it. They want us to get going. - Saying that some of their passengers were being given off to other carriers, which put some pressure on them to abandon their plan - It was felt it would've - So the fax came in and we're way behind. We may lose the contract. Load And so they did, they stopped the work. Because Nationair is go, go, go, go, nobody wants to deal with anything that could delay the departure. - Rather than top up the tires, a mechanic altered the log to make it seem like the - There's no indication that to the tires to actually they just simply made - 11 tons of jet fuel feed a massive fire where a Boeing MD-87 has collided - Awful, terrible devastation. The collapse of a roof of completely destroyed many different parts and unfortunately the dead bodies. The rescue people had problems to rescue victims because the airplanes was blocking the entrance. (fire roaring) (suspenseful music) - Some 14 minutes have As emergency crews battle the fire, Linate air traffic controllers frantically try to understand what just happened. - There are two aircraft unaccounted for. - Paolo Zacchetti discovers did not return to its parking position after all planes were grounded. - The main attention was so nobody thought that - A private aircraft is - Ground crews searched Finally, 26 minutes after the crash, they find the Cessna burning and in pieces halfway down runway 36R. It appears there's been a collision. - It's hard to believe people became aware about the fact that the Cessna was on the main runway. - There is another aircraft - Air traffic controllers are mystified. How did these two planes at the same time? - What's that?! Come on. - Two planes are destroyed. The scope of the tragedy is overwhelming. It's soon clear that no one The crash has killed 110 and four onboard the Cessna. Inside the collapsed hangar, 118 fatalities in all. The Cessna took the wrong path due to flawed taxiway markings. Without ground radar, controllers the movement of the Cessna. Add fog into the mix and - When the Cessna and the they were both doomed. The accident was now inevitable. - How long was it before the - The investigation of how failures at Linate - Please call me back. - Even worse, - Hello, this is Tower. - The breakage of the Cessna was found only about 25 minutes after the accident. And by the time the fabricator all the occupants were dead. - Post-mortem exams confirmed that three people in the of smoke in their lungs. They were still alive after - They were burned alive. If the rescue to the certainly the two pilots - After more than six months of painstaking investigation, Mario Pika delivers his findings. The runway incursion by the Cessna is listed as the immediate Pika does not entirely Instead, he points to the and taxiway markings at Linate, as well as to the - Delta Victor X-ray. Taxi north 05 call me back at the stop bar of the main runway extension. - And for some of the people involved, the fallout is especially harsh. Ground controller Paolo Zacchetti along with high ranking which oversee Linate are The judgment sparked intense debate. Should human error in air accidents be considered a criminal act? - I defined ground controller as the 119th victim of the case. - Delta Victor X-ray. Continue - Roger. - Yes, it is true he did make a mistake but it's the result of - Because of the tragedy, Linate Airport underwent a major overhaul designed to improve safety. - Linate improved the airport and some of the markings - The reforms ushered in following the collision on 36R have made runway and made Linate a much safer airport. Flight 8509 takes off from - Positive rate confirmed. - Gear up. - Gear up. Passing 900 feet. - The aircraft had taken off and climbed to about two - Shortly after takeoff, the - Left turn at 1.5 DME. - Copy that. Left turn at 1.5 DME. - The aircraft started - Heading standby, sir. Heading 158. (alarm beeping) - The captain's artificial that the plane isn't turning. - Bank's not working. - Bank, Bank! Look, Bank! (plane crashes) - For some reason, the to total destruction in AAIB technicians have from the badly damaged CVR. (pilots speaking in foreign language) - One of the most important was the sound of a warning as the aircraft departed from Stansted. (ominous music) - But even more significant than the sound of the alarm - They seem to be ignoring - There was no discussion about the fault with the artificial horizon. - Crews are trained to and not their senses. Captain Park trusted his ADI in spite of overwhelming - The first officer should look at the warning buzzers going off. It's very difficult to or lack of reactions, but I within the culture or was at that time. - Fearing dishonor more than death itself, the first officer did not or even attempt to correct his actions. - This crew were not operating as a crew, they were operating as one man - The aircraft just continued 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 degrees at bank. - Investigators now suspect that the seeds of the deadly crash were sewn hundreds of years before the 747 ever left the ground. - Sir. - For centuries, a rigid class structure based on social hierarchy Investigators have come to an honor-bound institution has strongly influenced It's now clear that strict put the crew of Korean Air 8509 in danger from the moment they entered the cockpit. Gary Dan is enjoying the Christmas holiday at his home just north of London. - I told you, I don't like them. - It was a Christmas-y It was just exchanging of presents. That's when I heard the noise It got louder and louder. It was almost like the plane was gonna take the chimneys off. You felt and heard the noise - Living just a mile and a half from Stansted Airport, Dan but not this close. - I looked out the window, with fire coming out of and sort of banked heavily left and then just kept banking and banking. (plane crashes) - A Korean Air 747 slams into a forest in the village of Great Hallingbury. - This was just a huge, huge explosion that you're watching it happen with a plume of fire coming towards you. I collected a torch. We ran downstairs saying, we've gotta go help.&quot; My brother and I ran outside and ran towards where it happened. We were racing towards where we could see the plume of smoke and fire 'cause there's still lots of aviation fuel popping around the area. We ran and jumped into a very large crater just shouting out. - You know, any survivors please shout. - Hello? Can anybody hear me? - We dial 999. - A plane's gone down in Hatfield Forest in Great Hallingbury. - It takes nearly half an hour for rescue workers to arrive. They quickly determine that A multimillion dollar plane and are completely destroyed. (suspenseful music) Arrow Air Flight 1285 is nearing the end of a 6,000 mile journey from The DC-8 is on its way to via Germany and Newfoundland. On board are eight crew Most of them are US soldiers with the famed 101st Airborne Division, the Screaming Eagles. At 5:30 in the morning, the Douglas DC-8 lands at on the eastern edge of - They had to refuel in Gander before they could complete the flight into Fort Campbell, Kentucky. - Gander Tower. - Big A950, we've completed refueling Requesting taxi to runway 31. - Big A950, winds at 290 at four knots. Take off now runway 22. - A last minute change puts Arrow Air on a different runway - 9900 feet, take off to - Copy that Gander, runway 22. - Big A950, you are cleared for takeoff. Merry Christmas. - Roger that, Gander Tower. And a merry Christmas to you too. - The DC-8 accelerates to takeoff speed. - 80 Knots. - Check. - V1. Rotate. - Arrow Air 1285 lifts off from Gander Airport at 6:46 AM. But just seconds later. (alarm beeping) - Ah. She's flying like a pig. - Positive rate? - Negative. - I'm sure for the last few seconds, those soldiers knew that in hand. - What's your altitude? Pull up. - Come on, air speed. Air speed! - Watch the trees! - First Officer Connelly trying to get the plane in the air. What he didn't realize was The DC-8 was already on Pulling the nose up The aircraft's weight its lift compromised by ice on the wings. A fatal combination. - If you take one of the factors out, if you take the ice out maybe you don't have the accident. If you take out the heavy weight and still have the icing, maybe But if you have them combined together, you have the accident. - The crash of Flight 1285 investigators examine and trying to determine the as it went down. (alarm beeping) (plane crashes) - And we're gonna need pictures and we're gonna need aerial shots. - 35 feet, six inches. Four and a half degree declination. - Using photographs from the crash site, investigators plot the height of 378 trees to determine the DC-8's exact - Airplane was right wing low with a nose high attitude Through photogrammetry, we determined that in fact the aircraft was way above the stall So the aircraft was clearly stalled in a high rate of descent. - The plane's radical nose up position prevented it from getting the lift needed to keep it in the air. Investigators can't explain why the plane was flying One clue about what the pilots were doing comes from a piece of cockpit wreckage, the airspeed indicator. - Look here. Here's the bug at 144. - It shows that the of 144 knots and that the plane reached an air speed of at least 165 knots. Their hopes now rest with - The recorder for the Arrow Air accident was extremely limited. We were able to determine, a little bit of altitude, There was no indication bank angle, pitch angle. - The flight data recorder that Arrow Air 1285 began its takeoff roll and increased to a speed of 167 knots. Liftoff occurred 51 seconds Two seconds later, the - It tells us almost nothing. - But a closer look at the flight data does reveal a potentially valuable clue. The distance needed to was longer than the - We looked at the acceleration distances and it took a little bit - 4,300 feet, 100 knots. 6,300 feet, 144 knots. - And it should be lifting off now. - Investigators discover some four seconds later or more than a thousand feet - 8,000 feet, 167 knots. - Extra thousand feet - Why did it take them so long? - V1. Rotate. - They used the full power and the we would expect them take off a little earlier. - The longer the normal takeoff supports the original theory that ice on the wings but investigators know that It's a rough ride aboard a A violent thunderstorm has - Ask the flight attendants - Flight attendants, - Suddenly less than 17,000 the flight becomes all - We've lost power on the engines. I've got nothing. - The plane has enough speed to glide, but not for long. It will rapidly lose altitude as it does. The crew has only one option left. - I guess I'm gonna have to - They must take their chances and put the plane down on the water. - Tackle 110, roger. Whatever you need to do, sir. - And that was about the last Then we were like 1500 feet - Dardano plans to put the plane down on the canal directly ahead of him. - Okay, there. - Put it down softly. - The 737 can only stay in the air for another minute. As Dardano looks for a to drop the plane in, - Look! Look at that one over there. - And then Lopez saw the levee parallel to the canal that we - Can you put it down on the grass? - Yes, boss. - The levee is much shorter and narrower than a runway, but it looks safer than the water. - That's where we're going to go in. - You got it my friend. Okay, put the gear down. All right. - But Captain Dardano is still flying towards the water. To have any hope of landing on the levee, he needs to make a sudden and That requires a risky - So we just had to do to get into position to - It's a movement for not a 47 ton Boeing 737. But it's a risk he has to take. (pilot speaking in Spanish) - Only 700 feet separate the plane from the ground. Without engines, the pilots to slow the plane when it touches down. Dardano has an additional challenge. With only one eye, he's as he speeds towards the narrow There's a high cement and a steep embankment on the left. There may not be enough room to land. - Watch out for the wing on that side. - I see it. Come on. Aqui te tengo, baby. Aqui te tengo! (triumphant music) (pilots laugh) - Very good! - Very good. Very good, Charlie. (Luis speaking in Spanish) - The landing was spectacular. The plane landed so smoothly. There wasn't even a bit of turbulence. A perfect landing. - When the engines on the 737 flamed out, the crew knew they had to act fast. - We've lost power on the engines. - To have any hope of they needed to first get the APU running. - Get the APU started. - Since the engines they had stopped ingesting air and water. But a successful restart - If you do not have all you can get what's called a hot start, which means that you have too much fuel for the amount of air going into it and the flame will now where it could overheat it. - After studying the engine data from the flight recorder, investigators conclude and ultimate failure of the engines was in fact due to a hot start. - Mayday, mayday, Tucker - Both engines. Both engines. - With his engines flooded with fuel and no time to properly drain them, Dardano hit the ignition switch. - If they didn't get all then this is what's gonna happen, you're gonna get a hot start. I can't be critical of a That aircraft is coming down. - Rain and hail from an intense storm crippled the modern passenger jet and nearly led to disaster. Investigators must find a way to make sure it never happens again. - One of the beauties of is when we find there's a problem, everybody works together to solve it. And in this case, the for an engine change, not but just a few tweaks. But that was done almost immediately much to the credit of everybody involved. - The shape of the engine nose cone and the spacing of the in order to better deflect Also, additional bleed doors are added to drain more water from the engine. - That sort of thing hasn't happened again and there are thousands and flying every day for - Within a year of the incident, 737-300s around the world are retrofitted with the upgrades. The plane involved in the daring landing is back in service within a month. - Look! Look at that one over there. That's where we're going to go in. - You got it, my friend. - The crew's actions on Flight 110 are legendary in the aviation world. - The decision making at the very end when they were going and saw an opportunity to put that was superlative. It was the decision making. - Investigators credit the calm nerves and determination of Captain Dardano. - Watch out for the wing on that side. - I see it. - For avoiding what could have been a fatal disaster. Captain Carlos Dardano is - Passengers that day were overjoyed. Dardano and his crew kept 45 people who rode that - Cold Bay, Alaska, a frontier town at the tip surrounded by the Aleutian Mountains and hundreds of miles of ocean. Reeve Aleutian Airlines is to the outside world. It operates a small fleet of rugged planes carrying people and cargo Reeve Aleutian Airlines Flight 8 prepares to leave Cold Bay The route will take the flight over a wide stretch of 54 year old Captain James with more than 25 years experience flying Alaska's tough terrain. - It's at takeoff thrust. - Gibson's flight engineer, - Thrust set. - Is 45 year old Alaskan His first officer is 39 - Generally we flew On this particular day we were scheduled for five hours of flying time. - Gear up. - Gear up. - Flaps up, Gar. - Flaps up. Reeve 8 is off the ground, about 23. - Reeve 8, roger, and have a good fight. - There are 10 passengers on board, mostly hunters and anglers. Wendy Croon is the - We were headed to Seattle. It was a beautiful day. it was clear. No turbulence. Highly unusual. Highly unusual. There - Pacific winds in the often create turbulent skies. Captain Gibson will aboard a Lockheed L-188 Electra powered by four turbo prop engines. - They're just an stronger than 10 acres of - Gibson finishes turning his aircraft on course towards Seattle when he hears an unusual buzzing sound. (plane buzzing) - You hear that, Gar? - I do. Not sure. (propellers whirring) - I noticed that the vibration and the vibration that was And that's the first time And I thought, well this - Moose, have a look will you? - Yeah, you bet. - As Gibson and Lintner wait for Moose Laurin to report back, the vibrations become more pronounced. - I distinctly remember looking down and seeing my control yoke shaking and I turned to Jim and I And Jim and I are kind across the cockpit. And finally he says, - Oh, screw this. Let's turn around. - Meanwhile, Wendy Croon helps Laurin check the engines. - The engineer said, &quot;I and check number four engine and see if you can see anything.&quot; And just as I looked out - It's now up to NTSB to find out what went wrong. - The loss of a propeller in It can lead to a catastrophic accident, it has led to catastrophic - Though the Reeve Aleutian accident was not catastrophic, it is Since 1965, there have been four cases of spontaneous propeller - We had an airplane that because a propeller came off. So we needed to find what caused this accident. - For Schleede, there are only two possible causes that can explain the - With fatigue crack or some would cause the whole and that has happened before. The other possibility is the gearbox, the powered gears that If there's a catastrophic failure there, that can also cause the engine and gearbox to separate. That has also happened in the past. - His team studies what's left of the damaged engine. Right away it's clear his - The records really didn't because what we needed - With no physical evidence to examine, Schleede's team studies the hoping it can explain the vibration. - The flight recorder on this airplane was a very rudimentary recorder. It records by a stylus and so it's not a very scientific thing compared to what we have today. So we could not on the where the vibration came from. - The Electra has a history Vibration so serious it's been known to tear the plane apart at high speed. Investigators examine the rubber mounts designed to absorb those vibrations. If they're worn down, it But the mounts check out. The investigation hits another dead end. - We could not determine even When you can't do that and that's very hard for - But there is another question Schleede hopes he can answer. Why was Gibson's plane so hard to land? In four other cases when an the planes landed without incident. - The loss of a propeller is it's designed to fly with - Yet with three engines intact, Gibson could barely maintain Something made this case unique. Flight 592 has crashed into one of the most the Florida Everglades. - A large jet aircraft Large, like airliner size. Need to get your choppers in the air. - The Everglades covers much of the southern tip of Florida. Hundreds of square miles of shallow swamp, mangroves and watery grassland. Just getting to the crash site will be a huge challenge for rescuers. Miami-Dade police of ValuJet Flight 592 in swampland far from the nearest highway. - Federal safety officials say it's the most difficult recovery operation they've ever faced with and a muddy alligator infested swamp that can only be reached - The very waterous marshy area and that's proving that may have survived this crash. - Rescuers know that the first hours of this In 1972, Eastern Airlines Flight 401 crashed into the Everglades three miles from the ValuJet crash site. Several passengers drowned - Yeah, to be in the it was utter devastation, destruction. The smell, you could smell the jet fuel. You could smell the hydraulic - Most of the aircraft is sunk beneath the surface of the swamp. - The wreckage was in the Everglades. It's a hostile environment. It wasn't clear at that to learn from the records - We'd suited up as best as possible. We first put on that Tyvek suit and then we put on an extra sleeve, put two surgical gloves on, and then they duct taped the - The heavy gear protects rescuers from spilled fuel and other toxins. But below the surface of the swamp lurks an even deadlier threat. - They had to have a sharpshooter at all times. - The crash site is a nesting grounds for alligators. - As the divers were walking in the water, if somebody sighted an you'd hear them hiss in the saw grass, they would take pot shots - Just hours after the crash, officials come to a grim conclusion. - It doesn't look good that - At an FAA fire test facility, - Okay, let's do this. - They hope to recreate the fire that consumed Flight 592. - One minute to ignition. - We had to trigger one of the (suspenseful music) - Nothing at all. - We didn't really get much of a fire. - An activated oxygen generator isn't enough to set fire it's packed in. - So how did these things start a fire? - NTSP investigators They can't prove their theory. - What were these things packed in? - The failure of the fire test prompts investigators to look more closely at exactly how the oxygen generators were packaged for transport. - The first test we did, we had not packed them exactly - You need a layer of bubble wrap. - We did not use bubble That is, put bubble wrap over before we closed the box. We put five boxes of oxygen generators, put 'em on top of a tire and - Okay, let's turn it up. (fire hissing) - It made an unbelievable noise. It sounded, it was a high pitched scream. We all looked at each other. I mean, the sound was deafening. (fire groaning) - 10 minutes after ignition, the ceiling of the test cargo container reaches 2000 degrees Fahrenheit. - Lord almighty. - We almost destroyed their test facility. - After 11 minutes, it exceeds the capacity of - All right, let's get that fire out. - We had a raging fire and a fire to be that big and that hot. And it was just amazing how destructive something this long and that big a round could be. - The experiment supports the NTSB theory. Improperly packaged oxygen generators caused the crash of ValuJet 592. Singapore Airlines Flight through heavy wind and rain at Taipei's Chiang Kai-shek Airport. Taiwan sits inside Asia's and tonight, the island nation Typhoon Xangsane with is closing in fast. Flight 6 needs to get airborne before the brunt of the storm hits. There are 179 people onboard the overnight flight to Los Angeles, including business - Being a frequent flyer, I was not too concerned about the weather because that did not - Parent has requested an aisle seat. The only one available on the second to the last row of the plane. He has no idea how important his seating - Singapore 6, for your information, surface wind 020 at 24, gusts 43. - Thank you, sir, Singapore 6. - Let me know when it hits 30. - If the crosswind hits 30 knots, the crew will have to - Singapore 6, you are cleared - Okay, thrust ref toga toga. - Captain Foong Chee with the takeoff. - Okay, my control. - The 747 accelerates 180 miles an hour. - V1. - V1. - As the plane was at a certain time, the (pilot yells) - The plane's tanks are loaded with 15,000 gallons of fuel. It ignites immediately. - Direct emergency - Rescuers must battle both the flames and the violent storm. The massive 747 is broken into pieces. Of the 179 passengers Most victims were seated where the fuel fed fire was most severe. The 96 survivors include all three pilots, some passengers in first class, and everyone in the rear section where Francois Parent was seated. One of Asia's busiest airports It is now up to the Aviation to determine the cause of the disaster. Taiwanese investigators still can't answer why the crew of Singapore made the fatal error of Determined to find out what investigators decide to put the cockpit of a 747 at - Alright, let's get going. - In similar weather conditions, they follow the route taken by Flight 6. They taxi slowly towards runway 5 Left, matching Captain Foong's speed. The plane turns onto the final taxiway. From this point, the Flight 6 crews should have taxied past runway 5 Right towards the turn for runway 5 Left. - Now we continue on to 5 Right. How could they have missed - Signs marking 5 Right from the cockpit. But investigators see nothing the runway is out of service. But inside the cockpit, that the plane is on the wrong runway. The instrument landing system that should be dead ahead. - This should tell you - If the plane had been the display would've been centered. Before departing, pilots to lock onto a beacon at the Flight 6's navigation system for that signal just before takeoff. The beacon was clearly off to Captain Foong was taxiing about nine miles an hour. Because the turn took so long, Captain Foong might've thought he'd gone further than he really did. So much time had passed he had already reached runway 5 Left. Just before takeoff, the crew had one last - Now the PVD hasn't lined up. - It should have been that something was wrong. - Nevermind. We can see - Captain Foong ignores the warning. - Okay, my control. - V1. - V1. - What happened next was inevitable. - There's something there! - There's the point of impact. The clues were there, they ignored them. - It's finally clear why Singapore Airlines Flight 6 ended up on the wrong runway. But with hundreds of planes taking off during the annual typhoon season, the challenge now is to make At Jakarta Air Traffic Control, SilkAir 185 has vanished from radar. The controller has heard no mayday call. He tries to get a message with the help of another pilot. - Indonesia 238, Jakarta. - Go ahead, Indonesia 238. - Please relay to SilkAir 185 - Roger, Indonesia 238. (eerie music) - But the 737 is already submerged beneath the murky waters halfway between Jakarta and Singapore. Local villagers report the crash. - And they're telling coming very fast from from an altitude. (somber music) - Along the river, people but find only small bits of debris. A 50 ton aircraft carrying 104 people is all but disappeared. News of the SilkAir crash is home to almost half the passengers. There is very little hope 24 hours later, following Indonesian investigator Santoso Sayogo takes charge of the team from the National - Empty those bags. Put it with the other bags for processing. - What we did is to go to and then record and preserve for the later investigation. - (sighs) More small debris. - The scale of the disaster There are no survivors. All 104 passengers and including veteran pilot and his First Officer Duncan Ward. - It was just complete bewilderment as to how it might have happened. In that situation, you go into I didn't really know what to believe. - In 1991, nearly seven years a United Airline 737 on took a sudden roll to the right. It hit the ground seconds later, killing everyone on board. (tense ominous music) Three years later, it happened again. 132 people died when a USAir Both accidents were caused by the same type of rudder malfunction. - That was a big concern you have the airplane doing things that the crew isn't anticipating. - Okay, wrap it up. - Investigators fear that the deadly rudder - If the rudder had failed as we had seen in these other events, that would've exposed it and would've separated from the aircraft. - Even more disturbing, the rudder problem was Boeing engineers came up with a fix before construction even began on the 737 that crashed in Indonesia. - For the accident aircraft, Boeing already modified the rudder. - So the question is, why would this airplane have given the fact that it had the - It is now crucial exactly when Flight 185's Did it detach at 35,000 feet or did something else causing the tail to break - We had to examine the wreckage, see how these stabilizers came off, and then put that storyline together. - On day five of the investigation, there's a major breakthrough. Divers have found a key piece in the mud at the bottom - The accident happened and we discovered flight data recorder in the afternoon of the 24th. One day before Christmas. - I can confirm. It is the FDR. Slightly damaged but it - It was kept in clean water just to preserve the information on it so it would not deteriorate. - If the FDR recording has survived, investigators should Flight 185's tail section - It's up to the guys in Washington now. - A team from Peru's Aviation Accident Investigation Commission must answer that question. Patrik Frykberg is in charge. - The first impression that I got, it was the terrible It was still burning 24 It amazed us that somebody had survived. (Hector speaking in Spanish) - Thanks to my seat change because I couldn't fit into they changed me to row and that's why I had a chance to survive. - Frykberg is also amazed by the looting. - But they were taking from the wreckage site. They took tires, oxygen bottles, doors, metal pieces, parts of the landing gear. And maybe there was an interest of exchanging them for money. - The small troop of government soldiers at the crash site- - Excuse me, I'm with CIA, I'm - Can't protect all the evidence. - It was huge as well so it wasn't that easy of - Hey, I need both these engines No exceptions. - Frykberg is forced to preserve the most important pieces. - We could distinguish the engines, but everything else was into small pieces. - We need to take pictures of everything before it's all gone. Let's go. - What he can't guard - I mean, the pieces were there, the flight controls were there. We found the cockpit, We found the seats. We were mainly worried about recovering the flight data recordings and - Hope of getting some answers is renewed when within hours they two black boxes. Since Peru lacks the the cockpit voice recorder will be shipped to the NTSP in Washington for analysis. - It's like a rush because okay, we have something to work with now. - But the second black box, the flight data recorder, is - Any sign of the FDR? Well, I can guess what happened to it. Keep looking. - It's more than likely that looters have taken the FDR. - Watching that some of the we were very, very frustrated that we could not have a better - With the evidence they need disappearing by the minute, for the return of the - It tells us how the engines were or the systems were until the aircraft crashes so it's pretty necessary - It seems that $500 for one man in Pucallpa. In a major breakthrough for investigators, the man agrees to exchange for the reward money. - He was pretty much the - Frykberg needs to know how they could have made He reviews the events a perfect storm of unlikely It starts- - You can sit in the cabin if you prefer. - With a broken seatbelt on the first officer's jump seat. The captain is left flying with only a young inexperienced trainee. - Textbook, major. - Thank you sir. - You remind me of myself. - Look at that beast. - Captain Perez Palma misjudges the storm. - We can get in through here. - And flies right through it. Intense hail shatters the windshield. - Do you have the runway in sight? - Blinding the crew. - No, I don't have it. - When a massive downdraft hits, the pilots don't notice until the ground proximity alarm goes off. Then they make the biggest mistake of all, they fail to throttle up. - Move with me! - Investigators conclude that happened as the result of one critical decision taken moments earlier - It sealed their fate. - Investigators analyze a pivotal decision made by the captain of Flight 204 less than a minute before the crash. - At the last moment he took control. - When he began to lose confidence in his co-pilot, - Or maybe I have it, okay? - He took command and became the pilot flying the plane. At that moment, Chivinos - You done? - The pilots have switched roles. - Look at the speed, you idiot! - Both seem confused by the transition. - Hurry with the flaps! - It's now the co-pilot's job to monitor the changes in altitude. - Flaps five. - Okay. Flaps Five. by the demands of the captain. - Never both pilots are looking Never. Always one of the pilots with the instruments. - I can't see it. I can't see anything! - Pull it, okay? Pull with me. - Though both pilots were pulling back, they both likely assumed the other one would take the crucial second step needed to get out of trouble, pushing the throttles (Raymundo speaking in Spanish) - When pilots are too confident and self-sufficient, they get used to the idea - We'll make it. - Call it lack of discipline or not obeying the rules, - At Los Angeles International Airport, United Airlines Flight 718 is preparing to depart for Chicago. At 9:04 in the morning, Flight 718 lifts off from Los Angeles. Captain Shirley must through the airspace around Los Angeles. After that, he's free as long as he reports in along the route to Chicago. 54 minutes into the flight, the DC-7 reaches its second way point. The crew will next check in when they cross a point on the map known as the Painted Desert line. Cruising at 21,000 feet, the and adjusts their course. - How are we doing on your side, Bob? - Thunderhead five miles - Damn! - Shocked passengers have no idea what's gone wrong. - Oh God! - Bank, bank, bank, bank, bank! - Come on baby. Come on! - Flight 718 is overdue to check in. Calls from dispatch go unanswered. Air traffic control - CA Salt Lake. - Controllers here don't normally communicate directly with flight crews. They get flight information by phone from airline dispatchers with their pilots. At 10:51, they get a disturbing call from United Airlines dispatch. - Salt Lake. Understand, United 718 20 minutes - Moments later, another dispatcher calls. More disturbing news. - Salt Lake, TWA. I'm getting - Understand TWA, Flight at Painted Desert. We have had no contact here. - Controllers now know that two planes flying crossing a scheduled way United Flight 718 and TWA were both expected to reach Controllers send out a bulletin asking local authorities for the two missing planes. The next morning, news comes confirming everyone's worst fears. - They found them? - The remains of two different planes have been spotted in The twisted wreckage of United 688 feet up the sheer canyon wall. The air tour pilot spots on the floor of the canyon The immediate priority is to get rescuers into one of the least accessible When rescuers finally they first find the scattered Reaching the wreckage of the other plane will be even more difficult. It's not long before rescuers Everyone aboard both planes is dead. It is now up to investigators from the the Civil Aeronautics Board to piece together what happened. With no cockpit voice investigators turn to and transcripts. TWA Flight 2 took off three minutes ahead of the United flight in It was to fly northeast towards its first checkpoint, Daggett. The TWA pilot was Jack Gandy. With 15,000 hours as captain, he was nearly as experienced Gandy knew these skies well. He'd flown this route nearly 200 times. - Good morning TWA dispatch, TWA 2. We've got a little bit of weather here we wanna get on top of. Be a good man and ask Salt - Roger, TWA 2 requesting - So TWA asked for 21,000, - No. Request denied due - Advisory TWA 2. Unable to - That's a no-go on 21,000, - Captain Gandy wants to avoid the clouds in his path and in 1956, he has another - Let's just get on top of this stuff. - He uses visual flight rules or VFR. - Roger that. Advise Salt Lake I'm going - Salt Lake, TWA 2 requesting 1000 on top. - Maintain at least 1000 on top. Advise TWA 2 his traffic is - The TWA crew was cleared to fly a thousand feet above the clouds, but warned to look out for United 718. Half an hour after Gandy reports his actual altitude. - 21,000 feet. - Investigators now ended up at the same As for why both planes diverted from their scheduled - Damn! What's he doing there? - Pull up, pull up! - The answer is the crash site itself. (plane crashes) (plane crashes) An awe-inspiring natural wonder. - Let's give 'em a look, shall we? - Aye, Captain. - Wonderful sights to see way down below. The Grand Canyon for instance, one of the seven wonders of the world. - Just keep your eyes peeled and you'll get a spectacular view no matter where you're sitting. Damn! - But on June 30th, 1956, it proves fatal. - Oh God! - Jack Parshall needs to find out how such a common practice The seasoned crew of - Rudder set. - Makes final preparations for takeoff. - Spoilers are up. - From Chicago's O'Hare airport. The DC-10's three engine layout makes it one of the most recognizable On this flight, a live feed from a video allows passengers to watch - American 191, you are clear for takeoff. - American 191 underway. You have control. Runway clear? - Clear. - Okay, setting takeoff Damn. There's the turbulence. - Not too rough. I've lost power to my side. - The captain's instruments - Looks like we've lost number one. - And he's lost power But the plane is already airborne. - Look at this. Look at this. Equipment. I need equipment. He blew an engine. - The DC-10 should be able to climb with only two engines. Pilots are trained to cope First they need to get as far They put their plane into a steeper climb. Forward speed drops. - We're banking. - The plane is banking It's only 325 feet from the ground. - I can't hold it. - American 191 heavy, do you - Losing power from one engine should not be causing the plane to bank. Passengers have a frightening - What's going on? - The pilots can't get and they're banking further - I'm losing it! - Go right, go right, come on, come on! - 300 feet, we're losing altitude. - The cockpit camera gives passengers a glimpse of their fate. But they are not the only ones A trailer park just north of the airport is home to thousands of people. - Oh God. - And the plane is Witnesses on the ground flying on its side. - We're still turning! - Level baby, level. - Brace, brace, brace! (plane crashes) - The DC-10 crashes into an airport hangar at the edge of the airport. The full load of fuel instantly ignites. - DC-10 with 271 souls northwest of runway 32 Right. - American Airlines Flight 191 has crashed just short of the trailer park beside Chicago's O'Hare Airport. The DC-10 has also obliterated Once the fire is under control, the search for survivors can begin. All 271 people on board are dead. It's the worst aviation Investigator Michael Marks from the engine pylon may fell from the sky. - Hey, look for yourself. See, that had to happen before the crash. - A close examination reveals a crack in the metal slowly over time. It's a telltale sign was already damaged before the crash. - You can see where it - The crack that Michael Marks finds runs along the top edge The microscopic examination a dent on the pylon bulkhead where the crack began. Investigators arrange to undergoes the same on Flight 191 just weeks before the crash. To save time, the airline has modified a key maintenance procedure. - Okay, bring her up. - The normal procedure involves removing it from the pylon and leaving the pylon There are hundreds of The quicker way involves The engine is removed from the wing while still attached to the pylon. It saves about 200 man hours of labor. Maneuvering the pylon into position with an engine attached to - I think I know what happened. - A possible explanation surfaces- - Take her down. - For the mysterious from Flight 191. The team in Tulsa calls Marks. - What you got? - They describe how the maintenance crew struggled to fit the pylon attachment into the mounting bracket or clevis. Marks concludes that the clevis must have slammed into the top of the pylon bulkhead as the engine was being reattached, the impact could have started the crack that led to the pylons failure Over the next eight weeks, the stress that the massive made the crack grow larger. It was only a matter of time and the engine fell off. - How long have you been - Not sure, but every airline does it. - Even more worrying, the mechanics at American Airlines are not the only ones cutting corners. It is now clear why the December 28th, 1978. - Losing an engine. - United Airlines Flight 173 is less than 22 miles from The plane's engines are With two engines gone, the autopilot can no longer fly the plane. McBroom must get the crippled The engineer struggles to keep - We just lost one and two. - Flight 173 has now With no engines running, backup to only critical instruments. The 100 ton aircraft is losing more than 3000 At this rate, they will for as long as 90 seconds. Now, Captain McBroom makes - I can't make it. - The airport is too far away. - Okay, declare mayday. - Portland Tower, United - He declared mayday like a calm matter of fact - Engines are flaming We're not gonna be able - We lost power. We're going down. - Emergency services are - Flight 173 is flamed - The DC-8 is coming down over a densely populated suburb. Suddenly, Captain McBroom sees A dark area up ahead. It - The place that you wanna put it is where there's minimum buildings, the most open area possible because the 200,000 pounds which is 160 plus miles an hour, it's gonna do a lot of damage - Putting the plane on is McBroom's best bet. But as he gets closer, he - I can't make it. - It's a heavily wooded suburb and he's headed straight for it. - If there are woods then you're gonna have to deal with it. The tops of trees are pretty soft. As you settle into the trees, they get progressively less soft, they're gonna do a lot of damage. - McBroom doesn't give up. He actually tries to steer The passengers still assume they're about to touch down on a runway. - We clipped the top of a few trees and that felt like we were at the airport so my first and then all hell broke loose. (trees rustling) - I saw the bright flash out there and knew he had gone down. - The plane carves a 1600 foot long path through the trees. Incredibly, the DC-8 has crash landed in the middle of a major American city without injuring a single Most of the 189 passengers including Captain Malburn McBroom. - We're losing an engine. - NTSB investigator Alan Diehl has discovered something - It's flamed out. - Less than eight minutes before the DC-8 crashes into a Portland suburb, the captain seems unconvinced that low fuel is behind - He was asking what was causing that and he got a very adamant - Fuel. - As if to say we've about this all along. - Open those cross - There are cross feed in a specific sequence one or more engines and it's on the case of a DC-8 to - Showing fumes. - Though the crew couldn't agree on exactly how much was left, - Oh, showing a thousand or better. - I don't think it's in there. - One thing is certain, there isn't enough to - Losing an engine. It's flamed out. - Takes a few things one of them is fuel. - You got that cross feed open? - Captain McBroom is desperate. He needs to get more fuel - No, I haven't got it open. Which one? - Open 'em both, dammit. - Each of the plane's four engines has its own fuel tank. Opening the cross feed between the four main tanks. - Number two is empty. - But it's not working. - You're gonna lose number - One by one, fuel starvation shuts leaving the DC-8 without any power. - Okay, declare mayday. - The engines didn't have any fuel. - We knew that the So then became a question why? Why would a modern run out of fuel? - Investigators focus Mechanical failure or human error. - Was it a crew problem or - Investigators desperately need to know what happened during the They catch a break when they learn that an airport security camera recorded the YAK-42 as The grainy image could - Whoa, whoa. Can you play that again? - The video shows that the plane was properly configured for takeoff, but beyond that it holds No clue as to what went wrong. - Okay, they started here. They lifted off here. - The airport runway wasn't the issue. They had plenty of room to take off. - They had about 2,800 plus - That's more than twice the - Something kept the plane on the ground. The question is what? They suspect the plane might - Aside from being if you weigh more and is gonna be harder to accelerate. - It's a lesson that was learned nearly nine years earlier in All 21 people aboard a commuter plane died when it crashed and burst into flames less than a minute after takeoff. The plane was 579 pounds Weight was also considered a key factor in the US Army's deadliest On Arrow Air Flight 1285, the weight of 248 soldiers was underestimated. Their DC-8 fell from the sky 2,900 feet beyond the end of the runway Everyone on board was killed. - If the weight is underestimated you just don't have that clear picture of what exactly to - They didn't know their weight. - Concerns mount when investigators learn that YAK-Service didn't at Yaroslavl Airport. - There was no way to weigh and the cargo that would so it was estimated. - Investigators estimate and their hockey gear. Ultimately, they find the - The weight is under the limit. - It may not be the answer, but it provides an important clue. - It does not appear that in this case, but it shows that the crew was not properly preparing the during the takeoff role. - Results from the brake There's no evidence of mechanical failure. The finding moves the investigation closer to a disturbing conclusion. One of the pilots must have A review of the cruise flight Both pilots routinely trained on and flew two different versions of the Yak plane. The Yak-40 is a much older regional jet that carries up to 32 passengers. The larger Yak-42, which debuted in 1980. Both pilots were more but they also regularly - It is improper and incorrect to train a pilot to fly two - It's beginning to look like the crew's habit but similar planes may have led Focusing in on the brake pedals, investigators spot a small but potentially significant difference. On the older Yak-40, a pilot On the newer Yak-42, he must - They were flying back and forth these two different kinds of aircraft, which happened to have different ways of putting their feet on the brake pedal, and that was when the - A pilot accustomed might have placed his and as a result, could It's a promising theory, Investigators can't understand why a pilot wouldn't notice - You would have to put about onto the pedals and that You would think a person would feel that. - They find a clue in the First Officer Igor Zhevelov for a nerve condition. He should not have been certified to fly. - He was losing the It was a medical development. It didn't make him fall down, of feedback from feelings in his feet. - So the argument was made could have been pressing without even realizing it. - Then investigators make another startling discovery. The brakes didn't just they also prevented liftoff. - It's gonna pitch you down because you are being pushed by engines that are above the brakes. It's gonna give the - By engaging the brakes the crew was actually The effect was like glue - He probably said stabilizer too low. - The combined errors - Full power! - At that point, the breaking force of contact now stops and all the other forces that you've been putting pulling back on the yoke, just to get the nose up, they are now no longer counteracted by the nose down force of the braking. The aircraft immediately a high pitch rate 20 degrees and you can't stay in the air. - The sudden nose up attitude causes the wings to quickly lose lift. Drag increases, the speed drops, the plane goes into a stall. - And you're just a big hunk just falling through the air. - Polish Air Force Flight 101 is carrying 89 passengers, including President-elect Kaczynski. Four of Poland's best They're elite military airmen from the country's Just after 10 o'clock, the plane begins its descent to Smolensk. The state flight from Warsaw Few understand Poland's troubled past better than President Kaczynski. By visiting the memorial near the Polish president is towards reconciliation. The elite crew is flying an extremely popular Russian built plane. As they get closer to the Flight engineer Andrzej Michalak must calculate engine performance. - May I please have the - Yeah, I'll tell you what - He needs some vital - Are we gonna speak Russian? - Yes. - English is the international language of civil aviation. But since Smolensk is a military airport, controllers here speak only Russian. Passenger jets don't but for the Polish delegation, it's the closest runway Captain Arkadiusz Protasiuk is the only member of this He'll have to handle the (pilot speaking in Russian) - Polish 101, good morning. - Polish 101 acknowledged. Polish Air Force, we have - Understood. Polish Air Force 101. - Heavy fog, visibility - Smolensk Air Base doesn't have the equipment needed for The pilots will first have to descend to just above 300 feet, Once they spot it, they - Temperature and pressure, please. - Temperature is plus We do not have landing conditions. - Continuing our approach. If we're unable to land, - Captain Protasiuk takes his plane lower to get a firsthand look But as they get closer, - Approaching outer marker and course. - Then the situation takes As the crew strains to the sound of an alarm - 100 meters. - Terrain! Terrain! - We are leaving for a go around. - 90 meters. - But the crew is struggling to make the plane climb. - 20! - No one has survived. It's a monumental tragedy. One of the darkest days in Polish history, a day that was to have been commemorated by the president himself, will now be remembered - Investigators refocused their attention on the cockpit voice recorder. - Turn on your landing lights. - Lights on. - Terrain terrain! Pull up! - They hear a warning that the plane is dangerously low. But strangely, the pilots - I can't see a thing. - Turn on your landing lights. - Investigators are puzzled by the crew's behavior. They compare the plane's to the altitudes called - 100 meters. - Terrain terrain! Pull up! - 90 meters. - Pull up! - Terrain, terrain! Terrain, terrain! - 30. - 20. - Stop. - 40. - Just after the navigator the unmistakable sound of the - 20 meters? - They hit the tree at 11 meters, not 20. - Something's not right. The navigator is calling out 65 feet, but the plane is only - They didn't know the altitudes. - The recording leaves investigators with two important questions. Why did the crew ignore the alarms and why were they closer to The team pours over the flight data checking for signs of an - Lieutenant. - It could explain the crash. - What happens here? - But instead of a malfunction, they find that the altimeter A barometric altimeter shows the plane's height above sea level by measuring atmospheric pressure. Air pressure goes up The numbers show that the instrument was reset to its default setting. A move that resulted much higher than the plane's - Why would a pilot do that? - Polish investigators to pilots from the same special regiment that flew the president. - What do you think they were doing? - They learn that military pilots sometimes use the barometric altimeter to solve an annoying problem. The altimeter is connected to the Terrain Altitude It alerts pilots if they're The alarm goes off so that some pilots have of disregarding the sound. They've also come up with ways to silence the nuisance alarms. One way is to simply reset the altimeter. That fools the system into thinking the plane is flying at a higher altitude. - Start playback. - It seems incredible flying such high ranking passengers would commit a breach of procedures. - 100 meters. - Even if they did, it doesn't explain why the navigator was calling during the descent. - 90 meters. He was using his radio altimeter. - Most large jets are equipped with two types of altimeter. - 40. - Since the barometric the navigator could only have When the radio altimeter read 300 feet, the air force jet was not It was 300 feet from the Once they cleared the valley, they were just above the treetops. The radio altimeter was giving It doomed everyone on board. January 25th, 2010. It's just past midnight at Captain Habtamu Benti with Ethiopian Airlines for over 20 years and has more than 10,000 - Exterior checks complete. - Check complete, no problems. - The first officer is Aluna Beyene is a recent graduate of the Ethiopian Airlines Flight Academy. Tonight there are 82 passengers They're preparing for an overnight flight to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Flight 409's flight plan calls then make a U-turn towards called Chekka. Ethiopian Airlines 409 lifts off just after 2:30 in the morning. The captain begins banking as he climbs. - Ethiopian 409 control 193, ma salama. - The tower controller and hands the flight off to a colleague. - Ethiopian 409, good morning. Climb flight level two niner zero. - The area controller instructs Flight 409 to climb to 29,000 feet. - Flight level two niner - But the weather ahead Just a few minutes into the flight, something is going wrong. An alarm warns the crew that their turn is Captain Negasa is struggling He veers back to the left towards the thunderstorm the (suspenseful music) The controller sees that Flight 409 is starting to veer back towards Beirut. He warns the pilots again - Ethiopian 409, follow heading 270. Turn right heading 270. - Right heading 270, roger. - Okay, what heading did he say? - 270. Set. - Mayday! Mayday! - The cockpit fills - What is it? - The control columns vibrate, warning them that the - Speed. What is it? Go around. Go around. - Roger. Go around. - The captain pushes the to go around power, but their situation is even more dire. (passengers yelling) - God! Oh God! Oh God! - As day breaks, wreckage begins to wash up on shore. Navy ships recover floating debris and some human remains. 82 passengers and eight crew are dead. Investigators return to the CDR. They hope the crew's on why two qualified pilots lost control of a mechanically sound airplane. - Exterior checks complete. - Check complete, no problems. - They notice something odd. The first officer is - Okay. Engage the autopilot. - Even worse, he's not following his captain's commands. - Hold on, stop for a second. - The crew's behavior is baffling. It forces investigators to for what went wrong. Something called subtle incapacitation. It's a controversial idea that goes beyond the usual - What is it? This room doesn't make you sleepy? - Investigators continue to analyze the cockpit recording. - What are these guys doing? - They listen to what just before takeoff. - What are they doing up there? - Was there weed in it? - Did you feel dizzy? - Oh, I couldn't sleep. - Well, me too. (pilots laughs) - Investigators are shocked to hear the pilots and the reference to weed. Subtle incapacitation may not be such an unlikely cause after all. Subtle incapacitation In the crash of Flight 409, But what investigators discover - Gear up. - Employment records detailing the pilot's flight hours. - Heading select. - Heading select, check. - Reveal critical information about the captain of Flight 409. He'd been working almost - The 51 days he probably out of the 51. - The crew's last chance to rest was a scheduled stop over - I could use some food that What do you say? - Yeah, a good meal will be good. - Alright, let's do it. - You have a lot of water today? - Oh. Oh, here we go. - Did you feel dizzy? - Oh, I couldn't sleep. - Investigators suspect that the heavy meal kept The storm conditions likely Fatigued and under increasing stress, they lost track of where they - Go around. Go around, go around! - Roger. Go around. (passengers yelling) - Investigators conclude the accident was caused by a or too confused to recover It's a textbook example Merida Airport, Venezuela. On February 21st, 2008, the crew of Santa Barbara arrives for the last flight of the day. Captain Aldino Garanito Gomez is a senior pilot and flight with over 5,000 hours in the air. The captain's first officer today is one of his closest friends. Denis Ferreira Quintal has This afternoon, First is handling the flying. - 70 knots. - The captain monitors the instruments. - V1, and rotate. - Gear up. - Check. We're up. - Flight 518 is bound for Venezuela's capital, Caracas. The airline operates this 90 minute flight three times daily. Navigating the mountainous demands a lot from pilots. The official flight plan through a river valley before looping back to the north and over the mountains towards Caracas. Flight 518 turns left as it Then six minutes into the flight, something begins to go wrong. An alarm is sounding a warning that the plane is dangerously (suspenseful music) - Santa Barbara 518, do you copy? Santa Barbara 518, please respond. - 15 minutes later, Flight 518 hasn't checked in as scheduled. - Flight 518 is missing, - As daylight fades at Merida Airport, a search and rescue team When a flight goes missing, rescuers often use a plane's radar track to pinpoint its last position, but Merida Airport has no radar. The rescuers don't know - Okay, we don't have so the search radius here - With no other clues to follow, they start the search by air. Then comes distressing news Mountain villagers have six miles from Merida. There's no word about any survivors. Rescuers carried by helicopter a remote Andes mountaintop. The air is thin, the (searcher speaking in Spanish) Hope of finding survivors in The crash has killed Rescuers have recovered Flight The flight data recorder and capture important details of The search for answers takes them to Paris to the French accident Technicians download data from the flight data recorder, or FDR. It reveals that the doomed just six minutes and 47 If a mechanical failure was to blame, the FDR should have a record of it. - What is this? - But investigators face a huge problem. Certain information simply isn't there. Strangely, the FDR lacks It's a major setback. One that puts even more to find the answers for They need to piece together and come up with an - Tell me when you're ready. Okay? - They try to figure out the movements of the plane. - Ah, same crap as the other day. If you want, you can start to turn, Denis. - Turning now. - Investigators are able to study every movement of the control column, the one thing that was properly recorded. - Pitch up 10 degrees. - Step by step, they - Left 15 degrees now. - The recreation shows that the plane was flying normally as it But then it began to veer off course. - You see? Right here. This is when it went off course. - The finding confirms that there was a problem with navigation, but investigators can't be sure if that was due to pilot With no hard answers from investigators in Venezuela captured on the cockpit voice recorder. They focus in on the last hoping to hear something why the plane veered off course. - Yeah, get to 067. - The pilots discuss - Denis, Denis. - We're at 074, aren't we? - What investigators hear next provides a disturbing glimpse into the flight's final seconds. - Denis, do you know we're at 318? - The pilots couldn't agree on where they were headed. - They have no idea where they are. - It's a key finding in the investigation. - Al tiro! - A clearer picture of is slowly emerging. - Al tiro! - Hold on. - Investigators now know the pilots were in - Hold on. Easy, Denis, easy. - But the question remains, why were they so badly off course? May 31st, 2009, Air France Flight 447 is The Airbus A330 is flying overnight from Rio de Janeiro to Paris. 58 year old Captain Mark - Here's the new forecast. - He's been a pilot for and is now one of the most - It's hard to see anything in this plane with this lighting. - First Officer Pierre-Cedric Bonin is 32 years old. He's been flying the - We are arriving at en toll. - 37 year old relief pilot David Robert is on standby. The three pilots fly in There are 216 passengers Autopilot holds the plane and the crew communicates with Brazilian air traffic control. - Air France 447, contact Atlantic Center. - As they fly, an onboard computer monitors the engines, It also sends progress reports Every 10 minutes, the computer transmits the plane's position along - Air France 447, calling Atlantic Co. - Air France 447, Atlantic Co. Go ahead. - Three hours into the flight, the captain reports reaching off the coast of Brazil. - Air France 447, position in toll. - Maintain flight level 350. - Okay, will do. - At 1:49 AM, the A330 leaves Brazilian and enters a communications Two hours later, an air tries to contact the flight. - Air France 447, this Come in Air France 447. - He can't reach the crew, so he alerts Air France. - Daca for Air France, over? - Negative. Hold for Air France, please. - No one has heard from The only communication, transmitted by the plane hours earlier. An Air France maintenance but his message bounces back. Perhaps the communication By the time the plane should controllers still can't make contact. At Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris, the 11:10 AM arrival time comes and goes with no sign of Flight 447. The A330 would've run out of fuel by now. The airline begins notifying families. The plane has almost By the afternoon of June 1st, the world learns that has mysteriously vanished. It's one of the worst accidents in the history of commercial aviation. An advanced passenger jet is gone. 228 people are presumed dead. In Paris, French police escort and the cockpit voice recorder After nearly two years of the world may finally understand what happened on board Flight 447. The answer to what went wrong may be locked in these (Alain speaking French) - There was a lot of concern that we might take a false step that would lead to the - One wrong move and the two year search costing over $42 million Starting with the cockpit voice recorder, they carefully open the protective casing, looking for the memory card inside. - The worst thing would've been for the actual memory cards to - This isn't good. See the damage? - We quickly noticed that there were small so we weren't sure that - If technicians can't fix the cockpit voice recorder, they may never know what or even who was flying the plane. A close examination of the second box, the flight data recorder, - It's fine. No problems. - I think we all looked at each other and said it's incredible It's incredible. We were able to read - While technicians try to repair the cockpit voice recorder, Sartorius carefully plots The FDR data reveals that the pitot tubes did in fact freeze. - The pitot tubes freeze here. - The frozen tubes produce erratic airspeed readings, causing the autopilot to - The pilot takes control of the plane. - It warns the pilots very loudly and that can be a bit of a and it definitely was and it was their reaction to this warning which was the key to - All crews are taught should clear itself in less than a minute. - The pitots on the aircraft, they were only subject to the And after that, the airspeed readings - The pilot only needs and the problem will disappear. - But he does not hold steady. - Whoever was flying the plane pulled back and pitched the nose up instead. (Alain speaking in French) - When the autopilot disconnected, the pilot in command changed - He climbs more than 2,500 feet. - If you pull the nose of an airplane up, it's going uphill, it's gonna slow down. - Their speed dropped more than 90 knots in less than a minute. (Alain speaking in French) - Raising the nose of the plane at high altitude put the plane - In aerodynamic stall, the wings lose lift and the - It was the pilot's actions that led to the stall. - They fell at more than - Inexplicably, the pilot when he should have been to gain speed and lift. - The more you raise the nose, the more the lift will be destroyed. And that's what was (gentle music)