Transcriber: Alina Siluyanova So, I'm going to start by walking you and then I want you all Christmas Eve. Beautiful night. Young family of four in the car, They're listening to the radio station, the one that starts playing the &quot;Jingle Bells&quot; comes on. Everyone breaks into song. The camera pans in on the faces What happens next? Car crash. Sixty percent of people say &quot;car crash&quot;. Sixty percent. Another 10 to 15 percent have but more creative. (Laughter) I have: &quot;The camera cuts to the oncologist, who is looking at the bad news that he's I have: everyone is dead, (Laughter) And I had one dude (Laugher) I did. What's interesting to me about this and I--it's an indictment, a little bit, care about, except that and I've spent the last 10 years studying how many hundreds and hundreds of stories who, that is their response, not just How many parents I've interviewed &quot;...and I'm looking at my children, --just right at the verge of bliss.... And I picture Do you know this? I get the promotion, and you know, to find out about my new job. Plane crashes. The fatalistic response is not universal. But it is a symptom of an issue profoundly dangerous. And that is: We are losing And in our culture, we-- what do we think Weakness. You are an excellent audience. It's almost as if I trained you. It's perfect. Weakness. And I am going to talk about Vulnerability is absolutely at the core of fear, and anxiety, and shame, and very difficult emotions But vulnerability is also of love, of belonging, And so it becomes very problematic we lose our capacity to be vulnerable. So, this kind of fatalistic car crash I refer to it as &quot;foreboding joy&quot;. One of the symptoms that we're losing our capacity actually becomes foreboding. Something good happens, or we're thinking about and then we become compelled Other symptoms: It is much easier to live disappointed And so, this is the person &quot;I don't want to play your stupid game and because really We sidestep getting excited because we're not sure Low-grade disconnection is another We go through the motions. It may not kill us, Perfection is one of the &quot;How could anything go wrong &quot;I am going to perform, and please, And perfectionism has nothing to do with it's nothing to do with healthy striving. People who I interview and people who strive for excellence and compromisers Perfection is a tool to protect ourselves. Extremism. There is a very simple equation: Faith minus vulnerability equals extremism. Faith is the vulnerability that flows Faith without vulnerability It is believing in things And last, I believe the most universal way an intolerance for vulnerability And I'll talk about this in a minute. Let's go to a bigger question, What is driving this intolerance And I believe the answer is scarcity. We live in a culture that tells us That we are not enough, that we are not safe enough, that we can never be certain enough, and maybe the one that I think is perhaps is that we are not extraordinary enough. In this world, somehow, an ordinary life has become synonymous And so often we are missing because we're on the quest Not understanding in the ordinary moments of our lives, is really where we can find the most joy. One of the things that happens, is that we are constantly collecting --I think it's unconscious-- of how many messages that we collect every day. I want to tell a story about something that I think really illustrates this. So, I have to catch a flight and my daughter--I have 5 year-old my daughter's really struggling I am definitely in the scarcity mode: &quot;I shouldn't be going, I need to...this is... I have to go to my bank, which is inside --I don't know if that happens here, all the banks have moved (Laughter) So, I walk up to the grocery store's and there's a big Code Adam sticker, it's an incredibly important program, &quot;This store and its employees are trained or nabbed, everything So I look at that and I think: &quot;Oh God. OK, just stay focused, Brene. No one's going to nab I get my money, get back in the car, and I pass the AMBER Alert. About 2 miles past the AMBER Alert there's a sign that tells me that 39 people been killed And [to] please wear my seat belt. (Laughter) Then I get to the airport, and of course, and I hear: &quot;The threat code And then I go through &quot;Oh my God! Holy crap! I was like, I'm going to start writing &quot;It's always orange. Ok. Orange is not I'm like: &quot;What is it?&quot; So I'm like, &quot;Orange. Ok, it's orange. (Laughter) Maybe something's reading the AMBER Alert, So I get to my gate &quot;Do not leave unattended baggage...,&quot; (Laughter) And I'm like: And I know that mother is ten feet away, &quot;But I saw this on Law and Order.&quot; (Laughter) And I'm going to board that plane and then &quot;Ching-ching!&quot; And then we're going to blow up. So I get on the plane, --I'm in kind of what you would call, So I'm having an anxiety attack, and the guy--I'm flying in business class, he turned out to be and so he looks over, I'm like, &quot;I'm good, yeah. What's up?&quot; And my phone rings Well, he's 5, so that means &quot;Hello?&quot; &quot;Charlie's got a fever. Mmm hmm. and the guy next to me says: By this time, the cabin doors are closed. &quot;You know what, I'm good, but I'm having [if] my gut is saying get off or I'm just freaking out, and I'm trying crazy enough to get off the flight, (Laughter) And so, this--Yeah, I am SUPER blast to fly with. (Laughter) So then he said: &quot;Let me get you a drink.&quot; (Laughter) I said, &quot;You know, I don't drink.&quot; And he goes: &quot;Xanax?&quot; And I was like, ...which is a shame. (Laughter) But then what I realize is, Because we numb vulnerability. Now had he said: That would have been (Laughter) Evidence of the numbing: We are the most addicted; we are the most medicated; obese, and in-debt We're numbing. And this doesn't even include busyness. You know, when they start having you know, &quot;busy&quot; 12-step meetings, they'll Because we just stay so busy that the truth of our lives That's the plan. And so, what are the consequences What are the consequences of Here is the consequence As a vulnerability researcher studying shame, empathy, and courage; and the last 4 years studying joy, And one of the things that I learned and everyone I've ever met, is that you cannot When we numb the dark emotion, and the shame of not being We cannot selectively We have interesting research around this. We have research that shows us, in addiction studies, is as likely to trigger relapse Let me tell you: there may be nothing sharper than joy. To let yourself soften into caring about something passionately-- that's vulnerable. So the question becomes: And here's what I learned We practice gratitude. We stop and be thankful for what we have. I've interviewed a lot of people many horrific things, and when you ask them &quot;I don't need your pity, When you look at your children, I need to know So to practice gratitude, to honor because that is We can compete from the news, with our own images of gratitude The people we love; our kids; our family; play; our community; and nature. These are things that happen that we're so busy So that's, I think, the biggest thing, to honor what's ordinary. And last, I just want to say that--and I'm but I really believe we want more we're not going to get hurt and they are. But there is a guarantee if we don't allow ourselves we will definitely miss out on filling our reservoir with what we need And so, I'll end on the note and I'm grateful to be here, and I hope because I believe we'll find what really gives Thank you.