An elegant lady maintains her mystique, her discretions and her allure And ladies, I hope because then you would be I'm now going to present so that you don't do those mistakes. My dear elegant ladies, If you're new to my channel, make sure you hit that subscribe button about elegance, personal transformation, But now, let's start Elegant ladies never always move in silence. Never share what you're working towards or what you're up to, unless it has And I know that sometimes, it can be tempting to talk about your dopamine release every time with another person. But I want you to really hold back because there is a reason for this. You're going to have a higher chance of keep it to yourself. So spare toxic energy, and just generally speaking, toxic people by not sharing So instead of spending your time talking start doing what you should you're moving in silence and just Do you prefer, by the way, when Leave me a comment, elegant ladies never share do not share your income. Don't share your bank balance and don't account. And the reason for that is, You don't want to let anyone know of financial situation, because discretion is a So talking about all of these inappropriate. And the reason it may sound like you're it might look like you're Plus you also don't want to become a take advantage of your financial So think about this. There are some elegance do's and don'ts that I want to share with you 10 Brutal Mistakes That Show and how to fix these mistakes. I am going to give you those tools that surroundings and with people of any rank. So begin your elegance journey with www.10EleganceMistakes.com and sign up today for this workshop. Point number three, elegant ladies And this one is quite individual. This is all up to each I don't think it's wise to give a lot And there are several reasons the typical female activity usually gossip about their men, maybe even about their sex lives. discuss their relationship problems and But I actually stopped when I realized I think should be kept between Plus, it's also a matter of and to the other individual. can you really trust And then imagine sharing those secrets who is also the person that is Now doesn't that feel just Plus I also don't think it's of anyone's or what problems they have. Now, I don't mind sharing let's say about my relationship that because it's okay to be vulnerable. And it's okay to open up to the But I think when it comes really intimate information is And I wouldn't do that unless there for me to get a second opinion on I would ask my therapist that rather if we don't have a therapist you have to just trust at least this one good experience where you know really good guidance. So then, I guess occasionally that's fine. But again, this is just how I personally think. Number four, elegant ladies never share someone Now, we all know that And that's a rule I hope But there are two types of gossip. which is pretty harmless you are speaking of in the neutral or in a positive way. someone is asking how's Jane doing. blah and she's up to blah, blah, blah. But then there is the malicious gossip information, or let's say, intimate and you're now passing it on as a Or even the worst ladies, when you hear some nasty and even though you never saw any evidence presented together you just assume that, well, if it's And then you keep passing this rumor facts. Now, you see Malicious gossip, in general, is incredibly karma. Because what you send out to the So you need to make sure that but you also need to think about what about your behavior. Because if that's how you talk about then imagine how you're going to Number five, elegant ladies, they don't share their drama and Elegant ladies are not drama queens. But I also think that we might know drama to the table into her gathering all about this person's drama. Not a very refined activity Some people might feed on other people's popcorn and start digging they shift the focus from their own And it makes them feel temporarily good. But most people who are somehow stable And it's also quite a negative experience. I do know that life is not things are going to happen that will a social gathering can But when someone is having these of negativity, I'm not sure you want to be that person seriously. If you have drama, that's fine, but pick your battles and make sure and gathering, you're not bringing Handle things in private, And if you really have then make sure that it's just an a repeated cycle that you're in. Number six, elegant ladies never share Now, one mistake that I keep seeing ladies sharing the controversial opinions. And I'm talking about things or socially taboo topics specifically. Because elegant ladies these sensitive topics because they might offend the people around And the key of elegance is to So you need to understand that That is not the issue, but you have to again think about right. Don't voice your Think through things before you speak, or at least, read the room or read Would it be fine for me to say Number seven, elegant ladies I've spoken about how important to the community, to the world by helping others, or let's say, we don't do this because we're then We're doing this in private. We're doing it because It makes us feel that we're especially when we are privileged some people start boasting about it, my dear elegant ladies to do. then do so in private. Now there are more things I want you 10 Things Elegant Ladies Never Say. Go to that video because