The key to carbon neutrality is the massive This means powering not just our homes and with carbon-free electricity. But there's a problem. You see, not all sectors of our economy CAN need to burn fuel to produce thermal energy. This calls for clean, carbon-free fuel to For Japan, the answer is hydrogen. But not just any hydrogen... Red Hydrogen produced with nuclear energy. I'm Ricky, and this is Two Bit da Vinci. When you think of Japan and nuclear power, thing to pop into your head. Yet Japan is a world leader both in hydrogen and recently they tied both expertise together decades in the making. Japan has been one of the strongest proponents scene, working to create hydrogen supply chains vehicle industry. They house the world's largest green hydrogen Field (FH2R) [1]. However, clean hydrogen produced from renewable be a cost-effective alternative in the next regarding hydrogen seems somewhat like a gamble Even Elon Musk once joked that hydrogen-powered instead of fuel cells... get it? Regardless, "...establishing elemental technologies of Japan's core Green Growth Strategies the government confirmed just last year. Now... we've covered hydrogen before on I won't go too deep into the pros and cons After nuclear energy, hydrogen has the highest packing 33.3 kWh/kg, which is three times best fossil fuels. Additionally, we can burn hydrogen to generate in both cases releasing nothing more than On the flip side, being a gas, hydrogen has have to compress it at very high pressures This brings all sorts of problems that go issues, none of which are trivial, and which the key technology for the EV industry. But why does Japan seem so hell-bent on pursuing me? The main reason is that Japan is a very small for energy. This makes energy security a BIG DEAL in Japan, the 70s. So, they've been pushing hydrogen technology ever since. They also turned to nuclear energy, by the In fact, nuclear energy is at the core of today's topic, and what you're probably thinking. But we'll get back to that in a minute. [Ad Break] The second and equally important reason is transportation, the chemical industry, and on electricity alone and require burning some replacement for fossil fuels. This makes hydrogen imperative to reach our Take steel making, for example, which accounts gas emissions [3]. A Swedish company called H2GS, as in hydrogen coal to produce steel and is set to start tons of high-quality steel per year with 95% mills [4]. Additionally, if used in the heavy transportation as 13-14% of our total carbon emissions [5,6]. Image Source [6] Image Source [5] almost a quarter of the world's emissions, neutrality. But There's a catch. Notice how I said "clean" hydrogen and The problem is that, though hydrogen itself the energy and processes we use to make it. And the sad truth is that 90% of the world's uses is made by burning fossil fuels. As it turns out, even if we captured those this hydrogen's carbon footprint is actually with [7]. So, how can Japan use dirty hydrogen and then the aim to decarbonize by 2050? As you may have already guessed, there's In essence, Japan needs a stable hydrogen growing until they find an economically viable And that they did! Ok, so, the first thing that comes to mind is the nuclear disaster at Fukushima Daiichi The disaster caused the meltdown and explosion material into the atmosphere, displacing hundreds a worldwide anti-nuclear energy movement. The aftermath affected all of us. In the United States, nuclear has been declining nuclear reactors either scheduled to or already currently under construction. Japan closed down all its nuclear reactors to cover the energy gap. Image Source [8] in Ukraine caused oil and gas prices to skyrocket, is making a big comeback in Japan thanks to High-Temperature Gas-Cooled Reactor or HTGR We've been testing HTGRs since 1964, but or pilot plants. Image Source [9] Yet HTGRs are "almost" the holy grail They could prove to be the solution to cut and make hydrogen a real game-changer that But what exactly is a High-Temperature Gas-cooled all the others we have today? To answer that, let's put our engineering reactor... well, not literally, but... you know what Nuclear energy is pretty straightforward. All current reactors use fission energy from plutonium to generate heat. We use that heat directly or we use it to electricity. This reaction needs a neutron to start but to a sustained chain reaction that constantly It's crazy hard to maintain and control and blowing to smithereens. The big problem is heat, so we need to drain from melting. The vast majority of the 440 operational reactors liquid water as coolant. But in the case of the HTGR, the coolant isn't A gas? As in, air-cooled? Now that I think about it, the HTGR is the Anyway, using gas as the coolant has many conductivities (in the range of 0.01 to 0.03 magnitude lower than liquid water's (0.598 For example, air has a specific heat of only 4.186 J/g.K. This means that gases absorb heat at a slower the same temperature difference, making them But Japan's new HTGR reactor isn't cooled They chose helium, which has an unusually and a specific heat at room temperature that While still not as good as water at cooling advantages: We can heat helium to much higher temperatures gas, it won't corrode the piping. This allows us to operate the nuclear reactor to light water reactors that barely reach This temperature opens a world of opportunities generating electricity, including many heavy Image Source [11] use this heat directly to power heavy industrial and even the petrochemical industry. In comes hydrogen But what does this all have to do with hydrogen? The answer is EVERYTHING! Notice that several of the potential applications In the first place, HTGR heat is enough to make hydrogen from methane and other components This means we can use HTGR heat to produce However, because gas reforming still produces of the chemical reactions, hydrogen's carbon But there are two other hydrogen production but that don't generate any carbon emissions clean. Those are high-temperature steam electrolysis thermochemical water-splitting iodine-sulfur This is exactly where Japan's potentially They're the first in the world to attempt Engineering Test Reactor or HTTR, with a thermochemical The HTTR test reactor achieved its first criticality at its full 30 megawatts of thermal power It was then successfully run for 50 consecutive helium coolant temperature of 1,742 degF (950 Everything was shut down and put on hold after But ten years later, after passing all the on July 30th, 2021, and has been operating With the HTTR in full swing, things start for carbon neutrality by 2050. On February 8th this year, Mitsubishi Heavy nation's biggest bet on hydrogen to date: hydrogen production plant coupled to direct The plant will use a new way to produce hydrogen the iodine-sulfur or IS cycle. In essence, this runs two separate chemical and a third one that consumes water and regenerates So, the only input is water and the only outputs Fun fact, many mistakingly refer to hydrogen actually called red hydrogen, as it's a of water that uses nuclear heat as a source But why is this game-changing? The significance of Japan's test reactor It'll be the first time ever we manage to hydrogen in a constant, reliable, and economical This could seriously change the game in the it could be the answer heavy industries were something renewables just haven't been able Secondly, these reactors can be built right require vast amounts of nearby running water. So, we could see heavy industries moving further lowering operational costs and further cutting HTTR Safety Or, did you think that I was about to cut as important and meaningful for nuclear energy? Hydrogen and carbon emissions aside, I have benefit of Japan's HTTR reactor is how it flaws of nuclear energy: the risk of a nuclear These new reactors have a series of inherent almost impossible, and it starts with the HTTR uses Tri-structural isotropic fuel or This is made of tiny ceramic kernels with of highly resistant ceramics. Image Source [13] This encapsulation traps all the radioactive for this waste to be released into the atmosphere But the best part is that these ceramics are of several thousand degrees Fahrenheit to Additionally, its high thermal conductivity TRISO fuel lose heat passively to the surroundings unlikely case that there was no active cooling wouldn't melt down. You're probably going like... Yeah right! Prove it! I get it! I felt the same way! Most Japanese did, in fact. But you wanna know what Japan did? They proved it! As in, they simulated catastrophic failure an experiment while the reactor was opperating Spoiler alert! It didn't blow up! In fact, it never even got close to the safety The reactor fuel initially reached a scorching passively to 2,372 degF (1,300 degC). This would've been doomsday in any other unscathed and is still opperating today. The test's results suggest that we could we'd be fine. Jokes aside, though, we have a safety margin and without risk of meltdown or radioactive Not bad at all! If you're thinking, "that's in Japan! What does this have to do with me?" Well, a lot! This success is unprecedented and it could in all its glory, bringing clean hydrogen Not everything is perfect First of all, though HTGRs almost completely waste as all the old technologies do. So, we still have to ask ourselves how are next couple of thousand years. Furthermore, we don't know if this technology But, we have our fingers crossed! It's encouraging to think that most of the details and coupling technology [13] and we engineering as we always have, proving, once