- 80% of wildfire destruction that until recently was rare. Scientists just figured out what these destructive and it's not what you might guess to understand what's going on. We talked to Battalion who fought this type of fire - And our conventional and personnel were really ineffective. We had to get ahead of the fire - To understand why wildfire We focus on the most they're getting bigger, but that might be a distraction. According to her new study, - We've been focused on the wrong metric. - The number of homes burned The Rim fire in California 257,000 acres, but it only destroyed 11 When you compare that to which was a hundred times and buildings and was the history, it's obvious that In this episode, we're that could fundamentally change how we think about wildfire risk, what to expect in the future and With entire towns being wiped California, Jennifer and her team wanted to understand why. To figure out solutions, he knew that the first step problem, so rather than she approached fire from a new angle. What do the most destructive And until recently she to answer this question. - We've had really good but we're only getting to the point where the satellites to give us information on a hour by hour basis. - We have new high resolution data because NASA is doing a lot space these days. - NASA's done a lot over the We develop technology. We satellites, and we can see large scales that we ground-based or human perspective. - Jennifer looked at the time-based images of 60,000 fire events in the U.S. to analyze the way they spread - This is a new discovery by putting together all of and looking at fire from space. - Today, so many science field, but in simulations powered that perform quadrillions to model our climate. I got to visit one of these Earth's Extremes, where I where we are and where we're going in this moment of climate change. You can watch right now on The results of Jennifer's What almost all destructive between 2001 and 2020 is speed. And this finding fundamentally changes how we approach fire management. - Fires that move that fast. More than 4,000 acres of the fire related damages They are only 3% of the fires A very small number of fire - And fast fires themselves changed in a worrying way during the study window. We'll get to that in a bit, but first, why are fast And why are they so destructive in a place like Southern of the most experienced by impressive air support? - The Bridge Fire was a great example, the fire activity was so significant, our conventional methods with fire engines and personnel were really ineffective. - When fires are moving this fast, it's virtually impossible to put them out. When Mike's crew deployed to wind was blowing embers miles ahead of the flaming front. and grounded aircrafts. - Winds were significant at we realized that the fire on our side is not gonna happen and shift our priorities. - The fire was spreading of Wrightwood just three miles away. - There's a lot of similarities of Paradise and the We knew that going up there, we were gonna have a heck of a firefight. - The comparison to Paradise, In 2018, another fast fire burned over and killed almost 90 people. So the crew raced in an attempt to reach Wrightwood before the fire did. - We had, you know, upwards or there. We still had immediately threatened. If you were to ask me at 30 where was our structure loss gonna be? I would say probably in - So they fought from house to house and help residents evacuate. By the end of September 10th, the Bridge Fire had to over 34,000. This fire is part of a growing trend. During Jennifer's 20 year study period, fires got 249% faster across the West and 400% faster in California. But what's making them faster? Forest management is often of fire behavior. But according to Jennifer, it isn't a significant - The fastest fires are They're very flammable fuels. They're very thin, they're They host fires that move really fast. - In fact, 80% of fast fires in Jennifer's grass and shrublands, not forests. It turns out that there are three elements needed for fast fire. One: ignition, two: dry, receptive fuel, and three: wind. Wind and ignition are difficult but there's a piece of that's a key force in their rise: dry, receptive fuel. - We've had fuels that have and then we just throw in a And those are mixtures and that recipe for extreme fire behavior. - And firefighters even have In Canada, they call it crossover because it occurs when the and crosses over the and it's explosive. At that point, fire can and spread extremely fast. In the U.S. we use the more So what does that mean for - With increasing temperatures, we know that we're essentially pulling we're making them drier. of climate change on fire is and more available throughout the year. - We're seeing extreme and intensify across the globe. We're getting all sorts of situations in which driving extreme fire behavior. - Models predict that the number of extreme fire spread with two degrees Celsius plus a doubling of acres burned. And that's not far from our We can't have a fast But the type of wind that causes many destructive characteristic that makes We worked with NASA to create scientifically and fire progressions during a handful of fast, destructive fires to illustrate what's going on. - I'm hard pressed to think of an event that destroyed more than a hundred homes that didn't have wind involved. - And the common denominator to control wildfires is wind. - When strong winds meet or start a wildfire, they of the flaming front, starting new fires and spreading the wildfire outward. These conditions supercharged The fire was so fast, moving that it jumped The with very little fuel for fire. In the Marshall Fire, we that's particularly As wind drops in elevation, which dries and warms the air. as much as 5.5 degrees Fahrenheit for every 1000 feet of lost and eliminating the need for high temperatures with wildfire. The fire started on of Boulder, Colorado. Wind gusts of up to 115 miles per hour of the Rocky Mountains, sucking of the vegetation to create state history. Destroying over a thousand wind blew down the warming the air, and that ignited grasses, then houses, destroying much of the town. During the Labor Day fires, river canyons turned into wind tunnels with speeds reaching 100 miles per hour. Wind blew over power and around small communities, to create one of the most in state history. These aren't just regular with fire in them. - In those situations where basically the fire becomes uncontrollable. You know, fire suppression ineffective in that situation. 'cause basically, for safety reasons, the firefighters just have And so there's, there's - And that's probably about fast fires. Once they've started, until the wind dies down. Firefighters can only And as we face a hotter, drier, future fire prone places are going to become far more So how do we reduce the destruction? We prepare ahead of time. Let's go back to the Bridge Fire, where Mike expected hundreds - I feel like the Bridge is a success story. - The Wrightwood community to prepare their homes for fire. The result? Only about 10 homes that Mike expected. So how do we prepare our homes for fire? To answer this question, I ask - Understanding how to live with the fire that's inevitable is of the communities across the Nation. - The research shows that we can significantly that homes will ignite in fast fires by taking simple steps focused on our home and its immediate surroundings. - So it is incumbent on community who purchase the properties on to code. Codes that are based on science: fire resistant materials, proper windows, not having wood fences. These are key pieces of the puzzle here. If we're going to continue to of fire, then we must build and the codes to make people in their own communities. - If you wanna learn more your home for fire, tornadoes, or even hurricanes, check out our new series by downloading the PBS app today. And we'd love to hear Do you live in fire country? Have you survived a fire yourself? What are you doing to prepare your home? Let us know and we'll see