- Hi, I'm Dr. Tracey and I make mental health education videos. Today's video is part three of a series on learning ADHD skills to help you with your The first videos work on time management, and if you haven't seen them, I'll have a link in the Organization is one of several that are impaired in someone who has ADHD. I talk about executive You don't have to have ADHD though, to have problems with especially organization. Disorganization causes and wasted time looking for things and it can also frustrate So here are three steps to Place, retrieve, and return. The starting point for organization is making a place for everything. Even small things have a designated place, and this can be a drawer for pens, a container for your mail, When you have organizational problems, the tendency is to wanna So you may have a lot and you may even feel like because you wanna be able When you are assigning your places, you do wanna have the things in the most convenient But the placement of things really needs a little bit Once you decide where things should go, you have to commit to putting right after you use them. So when you need something you go retrieve it from its place, then you immediately Many people think that they put it back, but they don't because it's just for a moment so you But it doesn't happen that you put it back and now where you keep it that you have to find each and every time. And in the moment, you're to how you'll find that That consideration is Now you wanna give some thought to how you organize your space. Have you had the problem not finding it, then someone else says, &quot;It's right there in front of you. &quot;You just missed it&quot;? Or an irritated family member says, &quot;It's right there, you just didn't look.&quot; But you did look. But it's like you were just blind to it. Why? Because when you have attention problems too many things in your field that your brain just eliminates for you. It's like you don't even see it. For example, look at If you were sent there to find the natural thing to do and scan right. But there's so much stuff here, you don't have the patience to meticulously look at every item, much less look inside something. So even if you do turn your your eyes just wash over it and you don't really see anything. So you go back inside the house Then your partner comes out and looks specifically for the brown bag and her eyes go straight to it. It's sitting right there. How could you miss it? You say, &quot;I didn't know I She says, &quot;But you can see &quot;You didn't really look.&quot; Or, &quot;You didn't look very hard.&quot; You think, &quot;Then don't send me out here &quot;to look for something when With attention problems, things either have to be in or they have to stand out So a part of putting things in their place is to organize your space in a way that makes things easy to find and eliminates clutter and distractions. You don't wanna put You wanna sort and file and discard the things that And this while could be you have to decide what's It's easy to think that you that you may be able to use later, but think about it this way. Is the stress that holding worth the benefit of maybe Getting rid of items that makes room for updated items. Also, what good is it that you won't be able to find because it's lost somewhere in your house? Organizing your living so the best way to handle it You can work on it for an hour at a time. But if you break it up this Take a look at a task and make Say that you'll spend one hour working on the left part A nice motivator is to take so you can have some Last thing on this. When you're sorting through things, if you find something resist the urge to look through This only makes your task last longer and you get side tracked, and this is how you can end when you get bogged down So put the interesting items and then when you're or finished with your hour reward yourself by relaxing But make sure when you're you don't sit it down somewhere, you put it back in its place. You may tell yourself, &quot;I'm &quot;this one time so Susie can look at it &quot;and I don't have to go find it again.&quot; It will take time to break Susie may not wanna look at it right now, it may be another few days, and in that amount of time the book that you sat down So you have to get into the as needing to be retrieved and returned. Now if this seems very basic to you then you don't have this problem. But I guarantee that if you're like your wallet, your you aren't doing these basic things. These three steps of can make a huge difference in your ability to keep up with your stuff. If you keep up with your stuff, you'll reduce stress and Take a look at the other videos See you next time.