Imagine if we could find a way to visually represent the all the different and how they are related to each other. We could find which keys were similar, which keys were further away from each other and find out which sharps and flats were in We could even use this representation as a to find our route between different keys. Luckily for us, someone has already done just The Greek philosopher Pythagoras, in fact, he of the triangle fame. Maybe if Pythagoras was around today, rather than calling him a philosopher, we might call him a mathematician. You may ask what mathematics has got to do Well the answer is: Quite a lot actually! Sound is a very mathematical phenomenon. A violin string vibrates as it is bowed. As it vibrates, the string generates pressure which our ears pick up and interpret as sound. If the violinist were to play the note A above the string would vibrate at 440 times per If he were to play the A an octave above that, the string vibrates 880 times per second, precisely twice the number of vibrations per Another octave above that, and the string vibrates at 1760 vibrations again twice the number of vibrations per second Therefore it is not surprising that someone might think of turning his hand to music as Having had such success with triangles, when Pythagoras turned his attention to music, he decided that a circle might be the best This circle became known as the circle of If you count the number of semi-tones in an you'll find that there are 12 in all, semi-tones includes all the black notes on What Pythagoras did was to lay these twelve special order. Pythagoras didn't actually call them notes He worked with numbers. What we now call C he called 0 and divided Therefore, each of the 12 positions on his is 100 cents further round the circle from This division into semi-tones and the creation lies at the very foundation of western music Because the circle of fifths acts as a sort it is incredibly useful to refer to when trying what key you are in. If you are in a major key it helps you find It tells you what chords are available in It helps you to transpose your music into and move between keys within a song. The reason it is called the circle of fifths is because of the way it is laid out. As you move around the circle in a clockwise the next note you encounter will be a fifth So for example, starting at the 12 o' clock Move around to the one o' clock position and In the key of C, G is the 5th note of the Move round again to the 2 o' clock position Again D is the 5th note of the G major scale. A more in depth explanation of how the different and how to find the different degrees of each can be found in the Podcast Extra. If I play all 12 tones of the circle on the piano, you can hear the melodic progression. C, G, D, A, E, B, F#, Db, Ab, Eb, Bb, F and finally back to C. So how does the circle of fifths help us find The key of C, has no sharps or flats in it. Notice how it is at the 12 o' clock position or the zero position. The key of G has one sharp in it, notice how G is at the 1 o' clock position. The key of D has 2 sharps in it, notice how the key of D is at the two o' clock all the way around to the key of C# at the with 7 sharps in the key signature. I'm going to stop there just for the moment and now have a look at the keys with flats If we go back to C at our 0 position and now instead of going clockwise round the we go anticlockwise, the key of F has one flat in it's key signature, moving another step anticlockwise, the key of Bb has 2 flats in it, another step and Eb has 3 flats in it and so on. Just as when we were going clockwise round assigning key signatures with sharps in them, we stopped at 7 o' clock. If we do the mirror of this now with our flats continuing to move anticlockwise around the we find that we will stop at the 5 o' clock This means that the 3 keys at the bottom of can be written with 2 different key signatures either made out of flats or sharps but still sound the same. It all depends on what we want to call our C# and Db are actually the same note. However, to keep things simple, if we say that we are in the key of C# then we will tend to put sharps in the key and if we say we are in the key of Db, we will tend to put flats in our key signature. So the first thing that the Circle of Fifths is how many sharps or flats are in the key you want your song to be in. But that is only half the story. Say you wanted your song to be in the key we know from E's position on the circle at that there will be 4 sharps in the key signature. But which 4 notes are sharpened? To find out we simply start at the 11 o' clock and count round the circle in a clockwise writing down each note we encounter until we have the number of notes we know So the key of E major has 4 sharps and they F#, C#, G# and D#. That's all well and good for keys containing but what about flats. Well the circle is symmetrical so we just work backwards. Say you want to write your song in Ab major, if we start at C, to get to Ab we have to move anticlockwise by 4 steps so we know that Ab has 4 flats in its key signature. Which notes are flattened? Well this time we start not at the 11 o' clock but at the 5 o' clock position with B. So counting round 4 flats from B, we have Bb, Eb, Ab, and Db. However, for us as songwriters, the usefulness of the circle doesn't stop Remember, in this podcast, we're talking about This circle of Fifths tells us which chord So if we are composing a song in the key of we can easily see which chords we can include Here's how: Looking at C on the circle, well we know that in the key of C major, the Now we look at the 2 chords on either side these are F and G so F C and G, will be the major chords available in the Carrying on round the circle in a clockwise the next 3 chords, D, A and E will give us all the minor chords available The 7th and final available chord in the key is the diminished chord of B. So if we now lay those out in pitch order the chords available to us in the key of C C major, D minor, E minor, F major, G major, A minor and B diminished. The reason that these are the chords available is that they are all made up of notes which you will notice there are no sharps or flats as there are no sharps or flats in the scale If we look at another key, say the next key round circle, G major, we simply use the same method to find which Firstly the major chords which are found by taking the G major chord C major and D major, then carrying on around the circle we get A minor, E minor and B minor and finally the diminished chord of F#. Again all these chords are made up of notes which exist in the G major scale. You can use the same method to find the chords your song in. So the circle of Fifths helps you to work you have to work with in your song. But the circle's usefulness doesn't end there Remember, the circle of Fifths is laid out between different keys. This is especially useful if you want to transpose Say you've just finished writing your song Along come your vocal artists and you suddenly discover that C is too low They would have preferred it if you had written in the key of E. You hold your head in frustration! All that careful chord work and now you have to throw the whole lot away and start again in a new key. Well, don't worry, you'll not be burning the midnight oil on as the circle of Fifths gives you a time saving way of easily transposing C is at the 12 o' clock position on the circle and E is on the 4 o' clock position. That means to go from C to E we have moved Each chord in your transposed song therefore An F chord, for example would become A as A is 4 steps clockwise around the circle A G chord would become B and so on. Exactly the same is true if you move to a key that is anticlockwise from your original key. Simply count the distance between the keys and shift all the chords in the song by the Voila in 5 minutes you've transposed all the Talking of transposition, what about changing key in the middle of your To add interest and variety to your composition. Well there are two ways in which the circle in your song. Different keys are said to be closely related if their respective scales share many of the The more notes shared by each scale, the closer Each major key has what is known as a relative That is a minor key that shares all the same Therefore the closest key to any major key is its relative minor. For example the key A minor shares all the same notes in its scale as There are no sharps or flats in either key. Therefore A minor is C major's relative minor. On the circle of Fifths, each key's relative is written with a small letter on the inside in the same position as the major key. So C major is written with a capital C at the 12 o' clock position on the outside and A minor is written with a small A at the 12 o' clock position on the inside So why is this important for us as songwriters? Because it means that modulating between C and A minor is very easy to do in a song as each key contains the same chords so we can flit back and forth between the I can play my tune in the C major: And then repeat it easily in A minor: without having to do too much work to link the two parts of the melody together. But what about something a little more complicated. Could you start off your song in C major and at some point modulate to some other major such as G major? Well the answer is of course yes; with a little work. How much work it takes depends on how closely the two keys you are are related to each other and the circle of fifths tells us exactly C and G are adjacent to each other on the therefore they are said to be closely related. Their scales share many of the same notes. In fact because the key of G only has one and C has no sharps in it, they share all the same notes, apart from F# which exists in the key of G but not in the key of C. In order to modulate cleanly and musically at the moment of modulation you have to trick your audience's ear into We do this by using a chord known as a pivot chord. A pivot chord is a chord that exists in both By arriving at the pivot chord in your starting and then using it as a pivot to take yourself you can guide the audience's ear through the modulation into the new key. I go into how exactly to do this in that in but for now, I'm going to show you how to use the circle This is done by using the circle to find which as we described before, then finding which chords are available in and seeing which chords are identical in both It is easier to modulate between closely related as closely related keys will have more chords that exist in both keys i.e. you have more flexibility in choosing on which chord to pivot into your new key. So as we discovered before, in the key of C, the chords available to us are: C major, D minor, E minor, F major, G major, A minor and B diminished. In the key of G the chords available to us are: G major, A minor, B minor, C major, D major, E minor and F# diminished. Matching these chords together, we find that the following chords exist in C major, E minor, G major and A minor. Therefore any of these chords could be used In the following example, I'm going to use the A minor chords as my Again I go into this in more detail in the but just to give you a taster of the end result, here is my little tune with starts off in C major and modulates to G major. Here we are in the key of C, But is that where we really want to be, To add a touch of variety, Perhaps we could modulate to G. In order to do it musically, And to lead the ear into the new key, We pivot on A minor this is he, As he leads us through D7 into G. Now we need a little melody, To confirm that we're in the key of G, Then we return to the tune we played in C, Only now we're in the key of G. This video is part of a larger podcast about &quot;Striking a Chord&quot; The full podcast can be heard at www.themobilestudio.net/podcast and go to Podcast number 1. You can also gain free access to the podcast by going to this webpage and clicking on the subscribe on the right hand side of the page.