Which country is bigger? Alright, we've got Iraq and Venezuela. I should be good at this. I've looked at a lot So between Venezuela and Iraq, I think it's gotta be Venezuela. Let's take a look. Oh, nearly a million to 438,000 kilometres squared. That's a solid start, let's keep going. Zimbabwe and Venezuela. Zimbabwe, little kind of I think they're probably quite similar, but I'm gonna say Venezuela's got the edge And, oh, actually Zimbabwe Oh, India and Zimbabwe, India Look at that, three Okay, we are doing well so far. Angola and India. Angola's large, but I Yes, 1.2 mill there for Angola. I'm curious, how long That's another easy one. Ivory cost is not particularly large. 300,000 kilometres squared, okay, cool. Norway. See, this is where it gets tricky. I know I've said I have but maps lie. Because of the most common like this one, the bits at the top and are drawn much larger And the bits in the middle are drawn a bit smaller Norway's quite large on a map, but it's a little bit more I think I'm gonna still pick it though. Oh, just has the edge on Ivory Coast. Okay, right, Lebanon, very God, I got scared there for a We're gonna get to double figures. Guyana, yeah, go on. Guyana's not massive, only Thailand's coming up next. Thailand's a funny shape. It's got a bit here, and then it's got a bit more. Yeah, Thailand's got We are doing well so far, Barbados, no chance, Look at that, less than a Oh, we're back to Burundi. I don't remember what it was, but it was definitely tens of thousands. Yeah, there we go, 27K. Okay, next is San Marino, Burundi, San Marino, I believe, smallest country that we've had so far. France, is that even a Get out of here, France, see you later. Oh, no, France is staying. Okay, Mozambique, ooh. Mozambique's another tricky one it's a long fella. So that's gonna add up over time, whereas France is quite blobby. I think I'm gonna give it to Mozambique. Africa's just massive Let's see, oh yes, yes. (laughs) It's quite close though. Okay, Saint Kitts and Nevis. Nah, Mozambique easy, all day long. Thank you very much, get out of here. What's next, Turkey. Yeah, Turkey's fine, there we go. Don't even know why I was We're doing well, we're Vietnam and Turkey, oh, There's a large map right there, but I am not looking Editor Kai, make sure I don't cheat. If I cheat, you include God, I really wanna I'm gonna go with Vietnam, Oh no, no. Ah, now Donald Trump's But we did score in the top 10%. We have a score to beat, and it is a respectable score nonetheless. Mauritania, Monaco, easy, Look at that, two kilometres, What beats Monaco, is Monaco I think it is, with Vatican Yes, there we go. And then Naru is third, I Okay, so far we have not like Russia or USA or Canada. Dominican Republic, ah, that's tricky. They both on a map, to but I could be completely off Yes, just got 'em beat, not by too much. Okay, Botswana, that's an easier one. Botswana's, quite a chunky fella right in the middle of lower Africa. Myanmar, I think Botswana. (gasps) Oh no. Oh no, &quot;Do you not know Oh, now I'm being mocked. I'm okay at geography as well. I have a geography channel with one and a half million This is the worst, let's All right, Thailand, Papua New Guinea. Oh, nope, nevermind. Oh, oh, hello. (laughs) There we go, we've got one of the biggest Australia, so that's an easy one. 7 million kilometres. And look at the stars, how Sweden and Australia, It'd be nice to see some once again. Okay, it Uzbekistan and Sweden. I still picturing Uzbekistan into all those other landlocked So I think I'm gonna go with Sweden, but I might be about to lose. Oh my goodness, that was close. Okay, Belarus. So Belarus in Europe looks quite large, but Belarus as a whole, I don't I'm gonna go with Uzbekistan. Yes, that was the right decision, good. Come on, we need to keep it up. Right, Belarus, these little small Get out of town, don't Cameroon, yeah, go on, Cameroon. Cape Verde, African island nation I think we'll say Cameroon's safe. Yeah, that was a really easy Gambia, oh we are getting back The Gambia is tricky 'cause that's the one that follows the shape of a river, right? And it's just completely within Senegal, so that's not very large at all. But Cape Verde is so small, whereas rivers can go for So let's go with it. Yeah, we're good, we're good. But as you can see, two Burkina Faso, why are we getting just African That's like five in a row, right? Burkina Faso is actually if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, look at that. For a very obscure Tuvalu, Pacific Island country. Get out of here, Tuvalu. 26 kilometres, I'll walk Naru, okay, so we did Google and I know it is the third So Naru V Tuvalu would've if I hadn't just Googled the answer and kind of accidentally cheated. So Naru, you win. I've just clicked the wrong That's what I get for cheating, even though I didn't even mean to cheat. Ethiopia versus Rwanda. Ethiopia, easy, this is Look at that, over a million. Come on, Chile, ooh, forget Chile is famously the but it's also very narrow. Whereas Ethiopia is just quite a big chunk over on the horn of Africa. I think Chile has got this beat, but I could be totally Ah, I am, I'm totally wrong. That is just a score of After that performance, in my JackSucksAtGeography I'm not sure I deserve that. Somalia and Tonga, okay, Somalia, easy. Quite large Somalia, there we go. Next up is Thailand. Hmm, I'm going Thailand, And I am just screwing it up. Could this be the worst day of my life? Oh, there we go. USA! USA! Famously one of the largest Is it third? I think it's third. I think it's Russia, Canada, USA. Yes, Russia, Canada, USA. It's always good to fact check before I just spew absolute But USA, that is a very easy one. Look at that, nearly 10 Okay, what is next? Netherlands. That's a freebie, very Okay, USA's getting outta Netherlands and Jamaica. Netherlands, pretty small, Oh my God, Jamaica's really Why do I always have a really nice run to begin with and then it's just nonstop just disaster after that? Oh, look at the... Oh, I was about to point out that the tricolour but for some reason they just vanished. Japan and Belgium still Japan obviously quite a There we go. Europe is small, there is a lot in Europe Okay, Peru and Japan. Hmm, Japan? Oh my God, I kinda need I'm not gonna lie. I'll look after the video, Uganda, Lithuania, Uganda wins, easy. There it is, thank you very much. Next one, hurry up. Spain, yeah, Spain, there we have it. Just don't overthink it, Jack. Just click, go with your heart. Spain and Andorra, that's a very easy one. Actually neighbour each Slovakia, yeah, Andorra Oh my God, I got scared there. The zeroes messed with my head, I thought something terrible had happened. Slovenia and Qatar. Ah, that's tricky, 'cause I but maybe it's small for Asia. And compared to Europe, it would actually be a bit bigger. I'm gonna go with Slovakia, surely that's, yeah, it's teeny, it's tiny. Malaysia definitely wins Malaysia is smaller than I I'm not gonna lie. Right, there's a good streak of six. Mali is pretty massive. It's one of the biggest Saudi Arabia is quite large. That's tricky, I reckon Looking at them on a map, I but obviously that's just the which might be very I'm gonna go with Mali. (gasps) Ah, look at that, it's twice the size. Okay, quick interval. There is Mali, okay, But let me drag over Saudi Arabia, because, ah, yeah, look at that. It's this bit over here. If Mauritania wasn't hogging all the room, we'd have been okay there. UAE and Georgia, that's a tricky start. I don't know, I think they're I'm gonna go UAE, which is a bit crazy. Oh, and it was the right move. As I said, very, very similar there. China, another massive big dog. I think that's fourth Papua New Guinea is in but China still comfortably beats it. Ooh, maybe I'm wrong, I am wrong, it's the third but it is not in the top 10 overall, so that is me spewing Costa Rica, on the other Papua New Guinea is still pretty big. Okay, what's the next one? Saint Vincent and It's so tricky when I think I'm gonna go Costa Rica. Yeah, that was fine, that was a safe bet. A lot bigger, it turns out. East Timor, that's not a big so I think I'm gonna go for it. Ah, God, oh, I did it. (laughs) Whenever it's a three with a five digit one, for I think I may need help. Latvia, East Timor. Hmm, Latvia, yeah, Latvia. Good on, very nice, thank you, 64K. Come on, let's get to double figures. Germany, that's an easy one. Germany takes up a lot of room in Europe. Suriname, ah, Germany's quite big. I'm gonna go Germany, let's go Germany. Yes, we were safe, we were safe. Okay, double figures, this is it. Lithuania, Suriname, thank you. Yep, I can remember this Oh, Belgium. It's battle of the horizontal versus vertical tricolour flags. Who will win, I think Yes, Belgium half the size, it turns out. Okay, then we have Greece V Belgium. Hmm, Greece, I think. Added up all those little I think will comfortably Nice, come on, 12, let's Chad, easy, Chad is massive. There you go, 1.2 million, thank you. Zambia, Chad, gotta be Chad, right?Yeah. Zambia is no little cookie USA, yep, that's an easy one. And then we should have a Next, which is Romania, We are on 16, so if I get Romania, Dominican Republic. Romania, yeah? Yeah, easy, easy, Romania, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan's massive. There you go, 2.7 million. We've got a new high Kazakhstan again. Just keep it going, this Hungary, oh. Considering how kind of it's a lot of kilometres squared. I think it wins. Does it win? Yeah, it wins easily, look at that. Sorry, Hungary, get out of here. Tunisia, hmm, that's tricky. I think it's gonna be two so let's see. (gasps) I've completely screwed it up. I need to remember Africa is massive. That is what I want everyone Africa's just way bigger than you think. I've scored 20, which means I'm in the top 1%. Share with your friends. You're my friends and I have Thank you for watching, Please subscribe, and I'll see you later.