Chief Cheng! Let's not talk about the competition with the poisonous water pot, poison nail board and the Fire Knife Mountain. They are the three levels that all the brothers who join my Little Knife Cult must pass. Brother Seven, come here. Big brother, let the great hero Chief Cheng see how these three levels are. Fortunately , the eldest brother, Lao Qi, carried him down nicely, and then Chief Cheng It's up to you, get out of the way, get out of the way, don't go. If you can't do it, don't bet with them. It 's too scary. Don't go. Why don't you go? Commander Cheng doesn't dare to say that Chief Cheng wants to use lip service to seduce women. My brother will definitely not be able to compare . Life is real, but it doesn't matter I want Commander Cheng to tell me in public. Meng and the brothers present are not here to wipe out what we said before. If you do n't have any bones, you will talk nonsense and brag. Shut up. It was just an episode arranged by Brigadier Meng for Commander Cheng. Got it Now please take a seat, Chief Cheng. Yes, Chief Cheng's tender flesh and thin skin can't stand this. It's better to eat and drink to avoid getting hurt. Please, Chief Cheng, you 're just doing self-inflicted harm on this road. You still have the nerve to show up in front of me, Cheng Tang. Don't overpower me. Cheng Tang only needs to go through three levels The skin of the meat is broken a little. I will let everyone punish me. As long as any one of you here can learn from Cheng, do it again. I Cheng Tang, I will tolerate everyone's punishment. Stop talking nonsense and throw the ocean in your hand into the pot. Brigadier Meng sat back. Chief Cheng , please invite the masters from Xiaodao's teaching. Aren't we all good guys? Why do you want to run away ? What else can Brigadier Meng have to compare with? Without you, heroes and heroes, Commander Cheng is indeed very skilled. He deserves the title of Master of Assassination, right ? Brigadier Meng , he deserves it. He deserves it. Sir, please take a seat Well, today is really an unforgettable event. First, there were fake guerrillas, and then there was the Hongmen Banquet. Thank you all, Cheng. Thank you for your hospitality. Are you satisfied ? Who is this Chengtang? It 's terrible. I told you a long time ago that he is not easy to mess with, but you are. If you don't believe it, you're asking for it Kuchi, are you two okay? Do you know him? Who is he ? Stop pretending to be confused. He came to the boat just to see you. I hate people pointing guns at my head the most in my life , but someone always does it. Now I am pointing a gun at my head. What can you do with your head ? Do you believe I will let you? Can you see your own brain ? You are so awesome. If it were me in this situation, I wouldn't say such a thing. I'll ask again. He is the one who joined you on the ship, right? I'll say who again. You really can't see the coffin. I won't shed tears even when I see the coffin I'll cry because I don't need a coffin at all . Then come with us. Where are we going? When we get there, you will naturally know. Go quickly. If you see it, don't tell the truth. This is also your fate. It's so pitiful. Is he dead? Not yet, but soon. I You don't know him , do you? I don't I understand why you must say that we know each other. I don't know what grudge he has against you , or why you treat him like this. I have nothing to do with this matter, but I saw with my own eyes that he gave you a note . Your eyes are really good. Why didn't you expect us to see you? Yes, he did throw me a note in the restaurant, but I don't understand what it said. If you don't tell the truth until you die, I'll tell you again. Again, I don't know this person and I don't want to get involved between you. Secondly , don't poke me in the head with a gun again. I also tell you. Firstly, this person came to the ship to contact you. Secondly, if you don't tell the truth, then he will not poke you in the head with a gun but take your head. Blossom, I said you can see your own brain, right? Who wants to try it? Is there anyone who doesn't believe what I said? I believe I gave you a chance to live , but you don't need people like you. How can you change? I'm telling you again that I don't know this person lying on the ground. Do you believe it? I believe it. Do you believe it now? He won't kill anyone again. Answer, believe it . I'm curious. Who are you? Why are you going against me? Answer me. We have found the wrong person . Spare your life. We really have found the wrong person. Watch tonight. Is it here? Did you see it? Did you see it? Didn't you see it? Didn't you see it ? I said don't try again. I lost a few brothers in vain. Do I want to try? It's not all the boss's life. Cheng Tang is too cruel and is simply a madman. Now say it. What use are these for everyone to clean up the scene ? It's so suspenseful . If the agent in the jacket hadn't woken me up with one word, I would still be planning how to rescue the fake No. 5. What did No. 1 say that woke me up? That guy said he saw the fake No. 5. However, when Fake No. 5 gave me the note , the three of them didn't see me at all. The three agents seemed to have said something right outside the restaurant door. Think about it, the agents were fake. For number five I only poked my head in to take a look after I wrote the note. At this time, Fake No. 5 had already left me. How could they see him giving me the note ? Yes, and our party's underground work has strict discipline. As an underground worker, once you find yourself As an old underground worker, No. 5 couldn't possibly not know why he still wanted me to go to 207 after his identity was exposed. Secondly , when he found out that his identity was exposed and was surrounded by enemy agents, why didn't he ask for help from the staff on the ship and let the enemies capture him? All this can only prove that No. 5 is disguised as an enemy. We see Everything they saw was a trick they had planned in advance. The purpose was to induce us to reveal our true identities. This afternoon, the fake No. 5 lured me to contact him, but it failed. So they changed their strategy and let me witness my comrades falling into the hands of the enemy. They wanted to See what happens to me As a result, they lost his wife and his grandmother's army. These dog spies are so cunning. Didn't you notice that there is another strange thing here? Intelligence agent No. 5 is an undercover agent of the underground party who infiltrates the enemy. How do we know what you mean They say there is a traitor . No. 1 Zhao Yaqin is missing . I just passed by Zhao Yaqin's cabin and found that no one was in trouble. The door was wide open. Sihai asked everyone to search separately. Go quickly. No. 1. We searched every corner of the ship and couldn't find her. Will the traces be robbed? She's on this boat. We've looked for her in every possible place. You guys go back and rest. Go and rest. Zhao Yaqin has me. Go, instructor, rush . Don't wait any longer. Hey instructor, go in and have a look. If the battalion commander obeys the order, you must not do it. If you act rashly, if you go in now, you will not be able to help him, but you will also cause unnecessary sacrifices. But what if you forgot the nickname of Yan Shuangying? I am the best ghost gunner, I believe in his ability, your hiding skills are really You are so skilled that I have never seen anyone with such skill in my life. He will never be an ordinary soldier of the 142nd Division. Tell me who you are . I know you will appear behind me, but you believe that even so, I will kill you easily. If you don't believe it, we can give it a try. You are amazing. If it weren't for that shot just now, I really wouldn't have discovered your existence. I don't understand what you said. You asked me to put down the gun. Don't believe your eyes. Believe it. My words will deceive you, why don't you understand? I know you will definitely appear behind me, so I designed this for you. As soon as the rope pulls, you will be finished. Come on, come on, come on. I caught him, hey, hey, hey. Who are you? It's best not to let me ask you a third time. Who are you ? Hey, hey, you're awesome , really awesome , awesome. Who are you? You don't need to know so much to see that you are not ordinary people. All general soldiers are well-trained and skilled. I have never seen the rifles you use called sniper rifles . To be honest, it is unreasonable for you to appear here. Why do you want to come to this small county to see you? I don't think he 's a talkative person. I just hope you don't resist unnecessarily. Put down your weapons. We can talk about it. Have you decided whether to put down your weapons or continue to resist? It's very good. Looks like you finally understood. Raise your hands and turn around slowly. Hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey my daughter -in-law has shown off all her abilities. I really admire you for being like you. How can such a person change ? There is no other way but to die. Do n't move. You all, don't move. Do you want to shoot? I , I just want to leave . It's easy to shoot. It's not that easy to leave. Please, please, please let me go. I'm afraid now is not the time to shoot him. Sand, I'll take you away. You can't even speak. No ghost will believe it. Remember, none of you can leave. You can only get out alive if you put down your weapons. Hurry up and shoot. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh , don't come over here , I should be laughing. I bet you don't have bullets in your gun. How about giving it a try? If the gun goes off, I'll die. If not, I'll lose this throwing knife to you. Don't come here. But one thing needs to be made clear. I have a habit of killing people who shoot at me, even if there are no bullets in his gun. It's simple. You just need to pull the trigger. Don't worry, I won't lose because what you're holding is mine. Gun , ah , ah , ah, ah, the battalion commander's signal to withdraw, you win, you are a madman, crazy master, are you okay? I am okay, let everyone clean the battlefield , clean the battlefield, yes, Lieutenant Li, the boss has solved it , what a bunch of trash , he even let him run outside. Boss this and this This guy is very powerful. We were ordered to get rid of him, but he discovered him, killed and wounded six or seven of our brothers. Stop talking about it. From today on, Chongqing is already a communist world. You must not act as carelessly as before . Not dead to me You 're not dead , but you're going to die soon. What's wrong with you? He's not dead. Who's not dead? It's nothing. Did you see it? You see for yourself . Just now, I clearly saw him standing there. It was your hallucination. Of course it's not someone who's here. He's going to kick him out. Don't move . Oh! It turns out it's you. It scared me to death. It scared me to death. The battalion commander is the battalion commander. Oh, battalion commander. Hey , I didn't see it . Yeah, hey, battalion commander. Battalion commander, your clothes are so beautiful . Where did they come from? This is good. Come out. If I succeed, Tang , your life is already gone . Hahaha, go ahead. Yes , yes, yes. Ha Chengtang's clothes look like they were custom-made for me. Hahaha, you and your wife look alike. If I didn't look closely , I would think you were his Shuangying. You dressed up as Chengtang and asked me to find 10 soldiers to learn how to use a sniper rifle. It's not without intention, you know me? I didn't sleep all night last night, and I came up with a plan. What kind of plan was it to disguise myself and break into the enemy's interior ? I would lurk in Chongqing. Catch all the underground spies in one fell swoop. Let's not mention that we despise the Poisonous Water Wave Nail Board and the Fire Knife Mountain. These are the three levels that all the brothers from my Little Knife Sect have to pass. Old Seventh, come here, Auntie, and ask the Chief of the Great Hero City to see how to pass these three levels. It's a good ball, a good ball, a good ball , ah, ah, good, good , good, old seventh, good job. Come up, Commander Cheng, it's up to you. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Don't go. You can't do it. Don't bet with them. It's terrible. Don't go. Don't go. Why don't you go ? Hahaha. If you want to say that the city chief is just talking and hooking up with women , my brother will definitely not be able to compare. Hahaha. When it comes to risking one's life and taking action, haha. But it doesn't matter. As long as Cheng Cheng Sir Everyone, please apologize to me, Meng, and the brothers present. Let's write it all off. Hahahaha, we can't do it anymore. You are stupid if you are trying to talk. Hahahaha, shut up. It was just a little fun arranged by Brigadier Meng for Commander Cheng. The episode is ready Now, please take a seat, Chief Cheng . Yes, Chief Cheng has tender flesh and thin skin . Hehe, he can't stand this . Hahaha, he is eating and drinking to avoid getting hurt . Hahahahaha. Please, Chief Cheng, he has the nerve to show up in front of me, Cheng Tang, for his self-mutilation. Stop trying to be brave In case I can't go up the stairs, I, Cheng Tang, have gone through three levels. As long as the skin is broken, I will be punished by everyone. As long as any one of you here can imitate Cheng and do it again , I, Cheng Tang, will be punished by everyone . Haha, I heard you right ? Haha, stop talking nonsense and throw away the ocean in your hand Come to the pot, Brigadier Meng, and sit back. Chief Cheng, please invite me. Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, what are you doing , Brigadier Meng, what else can I compare to? Without you, Those heroes, Chief Cheng, are indeed very skilled . You deserve the title of Master Killer, right ? Brigadier Meng, you deserve it. Commander Cheng , please take a seat. Today is truly an unforgettable day. First, the fake guerrillas, and then the Hongmen Banquet . Thank you for your hospitality , Cheng. How are you satisfied with this, Cheng Tao? Who is he? It's so scary. He told you a long time ago that he is not easy to mess with, but you just don't believe it. You are really asking for trouble. Huh , what does this mean ? Doesn't it mean that I don't know the concept of smart growth? I don't have time to talk in circles with you. Tell me what are you kidding about? I think you are the one who is playing tricks, right? I ca n't understand what you are saying. Do you know him? Never seen him. His name is Zhang Baozhi. He was sent by the boss to Pengshui County to investigate you . Now you should understand, right? What does this mean? Another test . This time it 's your end Stay, don't move, don't move. I can ask why . Someone will answer you . I'm waiting for November 28. I received a message from Cheng Kang. It said that they had arrived in Pengshui County and were staying at the 142nd Division's headquarters. You are the boss , Xu, I am the boss you have always wanted to see but haven't seen. You finally showed up, but you haven't shown your true face yet . You are telling the truth . What do you mean by face ? If you are not Chengtang , then who am I ? An undercover agent of the Communist Party. These words are a bit sensational, aren't they? I admire you so much that you can still be so calm until now. That's because I am very calm in my heart. What you just said is right . The message was sent on the day I arrived in Pengshui. No, you are wrong. It was not you who sent it from Chengtang. I am Chengtang. If you are Chengtang, what happened next? I must remember that of course it started to rain lightly that night. At about 3 o'clock, I heard intensive gunfire. Later I found out that the Communist army had captured Pengshui County. I led my brothers to kill Zhao Youde, the commander of the 142nd Division , and all the officers in the division. Well, why do you want to kill them? Because they want to escape and Zhao Youde knows my identity. I can't let him live and be captured by the communist army . This is After that, I ordered my teacher Steven to command 9 snipers to control the commanding heights in the small building to prevent the Communist troops from entering the division headquarters and buy us time to evacuate. I heard that no one escaped alive from the small building of the division headquarters that day. If you go out, I can ask who you heard from me. Of course you were not there . How do you know that no one escaped from the small building alive? According to the information I got from Pengshui. On the day Xi Pengshui was occupied, a company of the Communist Army surrounded the headquarters of the 142nd Division. Later, the Communist Army's special agent battalion invaded Xiaolou. Chengtang and the entire special operations team he led were killed. You saw with your own eyes that the entire special operations team was killed. Did you see Chengtang's body with your own eyes? I didn't . Then why do you insist that the entire special operations team was killed? I ? Can you repeat it again ? It was the Communist soldiers who told you personally that Cheng Cang and the entire special operations team were killed, right? Of course it wasn't the Communist soldiers. How could they know Cheng Cang's name? Then what did you hear from the Communist soldiers? They just told me that Xiaorou was surrounded by them and later the secret service battalion attacked and the enemies inside were attacked. All the enemies inside have been wiped out. That's right. Could it be that the enemies inside the building are all the members of the special operations team ? Can't I lead the remaining subordinates to leave before the communist army surrounds the small building of the division headquarters? Take a good look at what this is. What is this? These are the personal identification documents of the 10 brothers who were killed in the small building in the early morning of November 28th. You don't understand what this means , so give it to me. Your boss, what does this mean? These 10 documents are Zhang Baozhi's so-called special operations team that all were killed. What you mean is that all Zhang Baozhi said were just the 10 people on this document. And you have already escaped from the small building and left Pengshui . I think Boss Yuxuan, well, I think what he said makes sense. Do you know my name? I don't know, but Ke Chengtang knew it before. You've always called me by my real name, but the way you called me changed after you escaped from Pengshui County. I never knew your name. Director Mao didn't tell me about it, and of course you didn't . I don't think anyone here knows your name. But Chengtang knows my real name. I want to say it again. I am Chengtang. Your excuse is very pale and unfavorable. I understand the Communist Party and I know very well that no one can start from something like that. Chengtang couldn't escape under heavy siege, so he died in Pengshui. Of course, you couldn't either, otherwise there wouldn't be so many senior generals of the national army who became prisoners of the communist army in battle after battle. So what you just said It's just a magical story I made up. Do you think it's okay? Let's talk about this topic tomorrow after the Black Hawk 1 plan is implemented. Such a plan to change troops is stupid . You can really execute the Black Hawk 1 plan. Even if you are not Chengtang, I will believe you , but you will not because you are a communist. I am very happy. If you were exposed one day later, we would die without a burial place. I can only tell you that you are guilty. It 's a big mistake. It seems that you have a dead end. The last question is, where are my men? You will see them soon. La- la-la- la-la. You have to stand here and watch me being raped by him. Kill them , I'm sorry, I can't help you, brothers. Although you are good to me , you are always a worry for me when you are alive. However, after today, I can finally rest assured. You are so ridiculous and pitiful. It would be pitiful to be shot to death randomly. If you think you can kill I was so wrong. Hahaha, you can still say something like this when you are about to die. I really admire you so much. &quot;Hum, do it . Give me a fuck . &quot; up come on come on ah ah singing look down brothers catch him and must kill him, chase him quickly , you be your Man, come on, come on , brothers, search carefully for me what is going on. Huh, he is not dead. Go in the direction of the bathhouse. Go, go, go, go, go , go , go ! Yes, go quickly, go quickly, go over there, look over there, go over there, look over there , hey Dasha, gunshots are coming upstairs, hurry up, chase him away, hit me , hurry up , his grandma is late again, Hai Haima , let me see, brothers. Stay here and continue the search . Let's evacuate. This guy is not easy to mess with. If I don't leave, I won't believe that so many people can't kill him. Okay, forgive me. I won't accompany you. Do whatever you want. Brothers, evacuate. You are a coward . Come with me , there is no place to hide. He won't come . What nonsense, just come with me. You fool, do you think I'm looking for him? Just the two of them are not enough. I feel like he's grinning. You need to be safe for the time being. You kid is full of tricks. Wait a minute. I'll go and take a look. Oh, ah, ah, ah, ah . Brother, listen and look for his direction. Hurry , hurry, hurry, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, brother, please retreat Everyone else is gone. Why should we work here? You are a bastard. If you don't kill him, I will arrest him and leave. You two stay here. The rest of you can follow me. Big brother, there is no one here. Are you a human or a ghost? Is it a man or a ghost ? Open all the doors and send them to me . Why is there a bomb here? There must be other people leaving . Why are they going? I don't know who it is. Is it Chen Cang? I don't know if you saw it. The boss is gone . If we stay, we will have to sacrifice our lives for him. You see, you don't have this idea today. But the king of hell, we only have one life. Why mess with him? Go quickly, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, let's go to the bathhouse, madam.