Translator: Li Chuanrong Have you ever had one of those buttons &quot;Software update available. Our computers use programs and programmers know we get faulty results, and this is why we have It turns out your subconscious In fact, our subconscious will process every single second. And in order to process our subconscious chooses programs. The thing is we've been choosing and now as an adult, we may still be running the same programs So who wants an upgrade button I have figured out how to access mine, I want you to play Everybody, fold your arms. Good, now look down OK, unfold them, now fold them back How does that feel? It's awkward, it's uncomfortable. This person over here (Laughter) But what you're feeling there, in science, they have a term Cognitive dissonance states onto two conflicting ideas Our brain can not hold onto two conflicting You can all unfold your arms now. I don't want you to fold but what you felt there So cognitive dissonance is an opportunity to upgrade And here's the other part: when it comes to communication, there are three main parts There's the words that we speak, and then there's the tone of those words. Have you ever gotten in trouble Yeah, it has messages with it. The third part is our gestures So when we don't know what messages we are sending and they don't match the words we speak, people will discount the words they hear because our subconscious understands But and how can our brains send out It's because your subconscious is what runs the majority and remember, our subconscious Our subconscious or our whole brain Our brain wants to conserve energy and knows that it's easier to maintain the current programs So, when we put these two ideas together, we now have access to this update Let me explain by telling you In fact, it was only about six years ago that I was at a place I tried to interact with people, and I found people to be to be unpredictable, It was just not fun, and I decided that everybody it's just the way it was. In fact, I got to where I would send and then I would hide inside the house, and I wouldn't answer the door, because no matter how hard I had tried, the results I was getting I was putting forth and I felt stuck. So this is where I was, but I couldn't seem So even though in my life, I had worked as an engineer this is the point in my life where I changed and started studying As I learned these two parts I started to recognize to change the way I interact with people. I began to put it into practice why some people could figure So let me teach you a little bit so you can understand When somebody feels weak, if I feel weak, I will use weak, closed body language - my shoulders will come down, I'll fold my arms, I'll look down, maybe even my weight goes on one leg, because I feel weak. But by contrast, their body language opens up. They might put their arms their shoulders go up, their weight goes on both legs. Now remember, in my life, at this time, I felt weak, but I wanted to be strong, and so I decided I looked around me at people I looked at celebrities, I looked at people around me who were having and I realized these successful people were not behaving exactly the same as me. So, here's how it looked for me. Since I felt weak, and I was afraid of I very often folded my arms. I kept my arms folded a lot, and if anybody had asked me why, I'd tell them, &quot;Because I have nowhere else to put I don't want them just hanging out here. But when I watched the majority of the time they'd put them down to their sides. So I decided I was going to try it. And if you could have been it would have been very entertaining I had this dissonance because my old program But I was choosing to send a message that I felt strong, comfortable, So I said, &quot;My hands will go here That doesn't mean that would be very weird - but it does mean I put them away here. But then my subconscious would say, and I'd say, &quot;No, I want my arms here.&quot; &quot;Fold them&quot;, &quot;Here&quot;, &quot;Fold them,&quot; that's what it felt like in my head. But after a little while, my subconscious It's going to be easier to just adopt the new program And I began to feel differently. People around me started to notice. You can feel this with me right now. Some of you may have heard of You heard of that one? It pulls down on us really well, and during the day, it likes to pull down on our shoulders So, everybody, let your shoulders How does that feel? People tell me it feels tired, But now, instead, pull your shoulders back up How does that feel? It feels empowered, You've just felt the difference In fact, in 2009, there was in the European Journal and in there, what they had done was they asked people and they did the self evaluation either in a slumped stance The people who had good posture rated themselves higher It turns out your grandma was right, she kept telling us to sit up straight. But that is an opportunity So that's one of the things I did May I share two more with you? What I noticed about me - actually, let's talk When it comes to body language - I watch body language everywhere I go, what I found is the majority of people They push away, and then they wonder or raises, or opportunities, But they're pushing things away. In fact, the fastest way to see somebody is give them a compliment. When you give somebody a compliment, &quot;Thank you.&quot; And they throw the compliment away, I love it, I do little tests all the time. I'll give people a compliment then I watch And often, people suddenly when they get a compliment, or they brush their shoulder. Or my favorite was: once I gave a lady (Laughter) And I'm like, &quot;So, that was you had to flick off your finger.&quot; When we have compliments coming to us, if we can't receive a compliment, how are we going to receive So I recognized this and decided I wanted to access whatever it was. And I realized the easiest way to do this would be to change So, now instead I decided when somebody I would scoop it up in front of me So I would just go like this while using the magic words, &quot;Thank you.&quot; Have you heard these words? They're good. So try it with me, &quot;Thank you.&quot; Oh, do it again, that's fun. &quot;Thank you.&quot; Notice how a lot of your mouths, went up when you did that because you felt the difference. You felt the difference. So when you use this body language, It's changing the program As I was doing this in my life, people started to notice One of the people to notice the difference Because at this point in my life, and we had been moving around quite a bit, so he had gone Anybody ever been the junior high? And he'd been to four of them. So he comes home one day after the first day Now I need a volunteer. Oh, awesome! Would you come up So he'd just gone his first day What I'm wanting from you is I need really great Can you do that for me? Oh, nice. There you go. Let's put that away for just a second, And just freeze, but turn this way Has anybody ever seen a teenager before? (Laughter) Yeap, exactly. So here's my teenager, &quot;Ugh! Mom, tell me And I'm like, &quot;Oh! Alright. And he's like, &quot;Is it body language?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yes, dear, that's what I do.&quot; And he goes, &quot;Ugh, fine. Tell me then.&quot; I knew that with that attitude, I had time to only share one piece And I wanted to share something but also send a different message And so I chose legs. I asked him, I said, &quot;At school, do you stand with your weight And he goes, &quot;Yeah, mom, we all do. Duh!&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Well, Mr. Attitude. Did you know when you stand it sends a weak message, that you could be easily So, I said, &quot; Instead, if you'll come when you're at your locker now this will send the message and people will treat you differently.&quot; He rolled his eyes, So thank you. (Applause) So I waited, and I thought, It wasn't maybe until two weeks later and he walks in the house, when he saw me, I could tell he had something so I just waited patiently. And he comes over, he stands and he ran out of the room. (Laughter) But he tried it. At the end of that school year, I gave him and he said, &quot;No, mom. I have more friends than in any of the schools I've been to.&quot; And the only thing I taught him was legs. But that teaching him of that helped him So it turns out that you have an update available The question is Change your body language, and change your results. (Applause)