- [Jared] The Soyuz is that can fit a crew of three on board. It has launched a board a massive rocket, which is called the Soyuz rocket. In this video, I'll show you how this rocket is launched into orbit around the Earth. We'll see the launch site in Kazakhstan, launch day preparations and then their nine At the end of this video, I'll show you how the Soyuz spacecraft, safely brings the crew back home. My name is Jared. I make 3D animations to show This video goes really well all about how the Soyuz spacecraft works and then how it docks to the Both of these videos and I even had some help Chris Cassidy and Scott Kelly. So, a big thanks to both of them. And of course, thanks to which is Curiosity Stream, with thousands of documentaries (gentle orchestral music) The Soyuz rocket is launched in Kazakhstan. On our globe, let's come over here to This is Russia, it's the largest country in the world. Mission control is in Moscow, Russia. The launch actually in the country of Kazakhstan. So, why does Russia launch When the Baikonur Cosmodrome these two countries were The launch site has been The other reason has to deal Let me explain, the best place to launch a rocket is right along the Equator. Anywhere along here, the Earth is spinning at about This means that a rocket launching to the east gets a free speed boost. You still get that speed boost when you are further it's just not as much. If you look at where Russia is, it's not very close to the Equator. This is part of the reason why they still launch out of Kazakhstan. The rocket gets a little The Soyuz rocket is about 50 meters tall. The Soyuz spacecraft is This covering is called the launch shroud. This whole rocket is assembled, just a few kilometers First, we start with the Soyuz spacecraft, inside Building 254. There are lots of tests to make sure it works Then the Soyuz spacecraft and loaded into the launch shroud. Remember, this is the part of This is all transported This is where the Soyuz in the horizontal position. The rocket is then transported to the launch site on small train. This process is called the rollout and it happens two or three The train moves slow enough that you could walk right next to it. It takes only a few hours There are red protective coverings, inside of each rocket engine. These will be removed The rocket and the train, will slowly pull up right Then the next step is to lift the Soyuz rocket Four support trusses to secure it in place. Then the two umbilical towers and then the service towers, which rotate right up next You can see how it has several levels to access different parts of the rocket, while on the launch pad. Just for comparison, NASA in the United States and then transports them to the launch pad on a large crawler transporter. Two different ways of doing things, but they both work. Let's talk more about the Soyuz rocket, it's powered by kerosene Here's a view of where the It takes up most of the space. This is a three stage rocket. The first stage is made and the central block. The second stage is made up And the third stage is the We'll see this in action Most of the rocket The larger engines are fixed in place. They don't move at all, but the smaller ones, these are called vernier engines that can rotate to steer the rocket. There's two on each side booster and then four on the central block. Okay, so we have the first stage, second stage, third stage, the launch shroud with the and at the very top is If anything goes wrong on the launchpad, it will lift part of the launch shroud and the top two models from the launch pad, the stabilizing grid fins deploy. And then there's also more rocket engines in the launch shroud Then the descent module will separate and the crew can parachute On most missions, the launch escape tower isn't needed. However, it has saved on more than one occasion. (upbeat music) About five hours before the launch, the tanks begin to fill The three crew members will arrive at the launchpad in a bus. They will be wearing Sokol Spacesuits. These protect the crew during the launch and other important parts of the mission. In their left hand, they are each holding a This will be used up until the moment they enter the Soyuz spacecraft. One last picture is usually An elevator then takes them up to the top where they can get into (upbeat music) There is a hatch in the This leads to the orbital module and then down into the descent module. Of course, being very careful not to damage anything, they're in their seats about In the center seat is the commander, this will always be a Russian cosmonaut. The other two seats are These may also be Russian cosmonauts or an astronaut from another country. The instrument panel is up here. Not all of the controls The commander in the center seat, will have a stick to be The crew will hang a zero-G indicator. That's usually a stuffed animal or a toy. This is a nice visual reminder. Once they are in space and the Everything done inside is in Russian, which means all crew members, must speak the language fluently. During the two hours before launch, there are many checks that need to happen to make sure that the rocket for the launch. For some of that time, they will play music to help relax the crew. 30 minutes before the launch, the service structure from the rocket. 15 minutes before the launch, all personnel are evacuated At 35 seconds before the launch, the first umbilical tower is released, then it 15 seconds the second (upbeat music) At the moment of liftoff, the four support trusses rotate away and the Soyuz begins to rise. (upbeat music) The Soyuz launch is automated, but the crew must be ready About 20 seconds after liftoff, it'll start pitching over to the side. (upbeat music) At two minutes after liftoff, the launch escape tower because it's no longer needed. The foreside boosters now which means the first rocket When the side boosters fall down, this is considered the Korolev Cross. You can usually still The central block of the rocket continues to fire on its own. As they continue to accelerate, the crew will feel as much or three and a half times as (upbeat music) The launch shroud through the atmosphere, but we're high enough up At two and a half minutes, it falls away exposing This is the first time to see outside their windows into space. (upbeat music) At five minutes, the second stage is almost done, before it finishes the while the second stage is still attached. This is so that the rocket which will press the fuel where it's needed. Then the second stage is jettisoned. The orange panels protecting (upbeat music) Just before nine minutes, the third stage cuts off. This is called main engine cutoff or MECO. Shortly after it separates The Soyuz spacecraft is now on its own. Inside the Soyuz, the zero-G indicator will begin to float and the crew members will feel weightless for the first time. Now, the antennas deploy This generates power for They are at a height and traveling at a speed of Nowadays all Soyuz spacecraft, are sent to the International The next step is rendezvous and docking. That means the Soyuz has to catch up with and then dock to the ISS. If you want to learn more about this, you can watch my previous animation, which I mentioned at the At the end of the Soyuz mission, the crew will have spent about It's time for the astronauts It only takes about three and a half hours to get back to the surface on Earth. The Soyuz crew will be to those that will be staying on the ISS. Then they will enter the Soyuz spacecraft and close all of the hatches Then they will release and then detach from the ISS. This is called undocking. The spacecraft will slowly float away. Once they get to a safe distance, the Soyuz thrusters can be used again. The target landing site half an orbit away on the they'll do what's called a deorbit burn. The main engine is fired for about four minutes and 30 seconds. Notice how the Soyuz is pointed backwards. This slows the Soyuz down. So, its path will now reenter This is like the Hohmann Transfer that they use to reach the ISS. But this time, instead now we're lowering the orbit. About 30 minutes after the deorbit burn, the Soyuz turns 90 degrees and all three modules are The reason they turn 90 degrees is to ensure that each module has a separate path down to Earth. That way there's no chance The service module and the orbital module, will go on to burn up in the atmosphere. In fact, for this reason, the orbital module is The descent module has a This will protect the crew As the atmosphere gets thicker, it will slow down the descent module. This part is called re-entry. (upbeat music) Small thrusters are used to help steer the module The crew goes from feeling to all of a sudden having several times the force of gravity pressing This can be very hard on their bodies. During this time they have where the fire and heat from coming through. The Soyuz decent module This is different from the splashdown that NASA has done here The Soyuz is also built, so that in the event of a water landing, it will still float. At a height of about 10 kilometers, it's time to eject the parachute cover. This is a series of four parachutes. There are two pilot and then the main parachute. (gentle orchestral music) The drogue parachute slows so that we can safely There's also a backup parachute in case the main one doesn't work. The heat shield is then jettisoned from the bottom of the descent module. This exposes several which will help cushion To also help with this, The seats will rise up on shock absorbers. These will help soften The soft landing thrusters are fired, about a meter above the ground. This is why you see all It's quite a jolt when the parachutes are then disconnected to avoid the wind from dragging the The astronauts and cosmonauts to get out of the descent module. The recovery crew is usually close by and ready to welcome them home. What an amazing journey to If you enjoyed this animation, you might also enjoy learning from one of the thousands of documentaries that are available on Curiosity Stream. This is a subscription streaming service that has nonfiction titles from some of the world's best filmmakers. If you like Space, there's a huge section on that. There's also nature, and even sports. They're also adding new shows every week. Some of these videos are for my upcoming animations Let me show you, under Browse I went to and I clicked on one called During the show, it actually shows me a detailed view of the inside of a windmill. It's giving me some great ideas. Curiosity Stream is available worldwide and on almost any platform, so that you can watch however you want. So, go to CuriosityStream.com/JaredOwen or use my promo code to receive 25% off for a yearly subscription. That comes out to only 1.25 a month. As always thanks for watching this video, I hope you learned a lot and I will see you next time. (upbeat music)