This video is automatically translated by YouTube. I apologize for any error in the translation. Welcome to a new day in my life. Every day we have a new opportunity in our lives. We can change, we can achieve. Today, God willing, I would like to change a little in the kitchen and accomplish and arrange a little of the storage because it is still in storage. I have not arranged it with you. I would like to share with you all the details of my home today. A real routine in the Emirates. The first thing I wanted to make breakfast and share with you is the recipe called the Yemeni Lahsha recipe. Do you know it or not? Write to me in the comments in the last video. Many of you like me. We loved and loved the routines that you make. If you like these routines, I hope you will give me likes from your hands. It is nice. We will deliver this video to You can appreciate 200 thousand likes, and if you do not have subscribers, subscribe and activate the bell button on your sleeve to receive my videos as soon as I post them . Today I was making the Yemeni Lahsa. It is made up of onions and tomatoes, as you saw. I chopped them with this grinder. It is very terrible. Anything I use in this video, you will find its links in a box. Description: If you would like to get from us, from Beshara to Fram, nothing, then I put the spices, and then there are people who also put green pepper in it, but I didn't have it, and we scrambled the eggs and added it on top, and in the end, we put cream cheese in it. All the ingredients, the recipe will appear on the screen so you can make it by mouth. I really advise you to try it and tell me what you think about it. I loved it very much. I don't like it with cream cheese. This is the first time I try it. The taste of cream cheese with this food is terrible. Glory be to God. Not a day goes by without us sweeping, mopping, cleaning, and tidying. It is impossible. I mean, even it is the day off when I decide whether or not to clean. I work for the second day, and I feel like the house has become upside down. Glory be to God. Except every day, we have to do these things. We arrange the sofa, we adjust it, we arrange the tidying. I mean, the constant tidying up. We are accustomed to this and this is our routine. Glory be to God. So today, after I finished breakfast, I tidied up, wiped and cleaned the things that needed to be cleaned. Now, I won't. I didn't isolate myself, but this is a daily cleaning I do. I mean, can you see that the house is tidy before filming? This is what I always do before I film, before I work. This is all done. I mean, it takes a lot of time. Can you say, &quot;Oh, I don't want anything.&quot; No, she doesn't need time. So tell me, how do you spend your days? Who are you, who am I? Peace be upon you. Peace be upon you. Peace be upon you. Welcome. Shatoura, Sham.. These are Omar's achievements. Omar Shatour, Omar Bravo, Omar, well done, you ate the entire lunch box in Sham.. Why don't I eat your food? You have to eat it now . She always comes home and tells me that she never caught a lunch box during break. Today, Omar won with us in the lunch box case. He takes a point. This point means one dirham. He collects the dirhams so that he has money to buy a new toy. I prayed the afternoon prayer and prayed for you. For everyone I prayed for, I will always remember you all, and you should also pray for me.. I put on comfortable clothes, and I am very comfortable in skirts, so we can start work after I rested, and so I took a break for an hour. I got up and finished my work. Here, guys, I started cleaning the tank above the gas, because that is the tank. There were legumes in it, and these are all the wonderful things that I want to put in the warehouse, God willing, soon. Maybe the next video will be arranging the warehouse, and I will show you because I was buying shelves to arrange the things in. Everything is legumes. A packet of rice, put it in the warehouse, I failed it and arranged it. I put the yogurt in their place. The yogurt is finished. They are far from that. The children's hands, because I don't need them, they are close to me , and here I brought these round plates, which means the one that turns easily, because I have a little storage on top, but I have a lot of storage on the bottom, so the cups above can no longer expand. Do you remember that I received a large set as a gift? I put it all on top, so I have nothing left except what I have left. A table of shelves, so I was forced to put all the cups underneath, but look at the result, how it was before and how after. I am arranging the kitchen cupboards. That's why I was buying two plates that are rotating. There are other things that I put on the side that are necessary for me. So I came out like this and said to myself, why don't I make use of these sweet plates, so I made use of them. I did it, meaning it was an accomplishment. I felt it meant a lot. To be honest, I told you before that it is the corner. I don't like the stand in it, so I was thinking for a long time that it was different, so I said to myself, God willing, in the coming days, I got this stand. I loved it very much, because I am introducing the wooden color to the kitchen, and even in the future, I would like it to include a white table. With a wooden color, it looks very nice. After I changed the angle, it all turned out very nice. I was happy, thank God, so I said to myself, "Come on, change it and set it aside." This is the angle that I honestly didn't like, so I tried to adjust it in this way with the work I have. Also, the implant is on top of the plug as well. I didn't like it, so I loved it, and it won my love because I brought it from Erbil. It's a very sweet memory for me, so I wanted to put a lot of these roses in it. It gave a beauty like this. This is impossible. This is here, guys. This branch was opening a new gum in Alzah in Sharjah, so I came here. Why should I warn you? I'm looking for a closet. I like shoes all over the Emirates, and I have not found a closet like the world of people, why, even though there are many, I swear, but what is the problem? All I like is the work on it. On the Internet, open the comments. She is the one who writes to you that you will regret it if you buy it and do not buy it and you will not come back later. So I said, "Finish, leave your head and my soul, buy with reality and with your eyes." When this difference was opened, this difference created a situation like IKEA. It has food, drinks, seating, and toys for children, but it is not like IKEA. It's better than IKEA, frankly, because it's a place for games. It shocked me. It shocked me, God willing. It felt like a playground in its own right. I mean, you go shopping and you're comfortable . It's really terrible. This place is treated in a very nice way. I wish all places were like this. Any place you go to shop from like this will be honest. There are things that were happening that I had never seen before. When I went to furnish my house, Glory be to God, there are two houses with much prettier models, I swear to God, when we started to furnish our house, all of the models were not there. Let's continue, continue, continue.. It is difficult to put the pasta in order to give them a lot of it. I loved her model. Look, how beautiful it is here. It comes from silicone. I am no longer convinced of silicone. I swear it is instead of parchment paper. Surely you are asking yourself, did you buy Tasneem shoe cabinet or not yet? Is there a unit that I like? I kept it in my mind, so I had an idea and said to myself, I will go back before I buy the last thing. It seems that I will buy it again, God willing. When I buy it, I will share it with you, God willing. I loved that after we returned home and the children went to sleep, I would prepare something to eat in the evening. I always love to do things like this, recipes, inventions, innovations, trends that are coming to the market. You knew that it was coming up. This is a trend that I have seen a lot. I said to myself, let's try it. They put corn and cheese. Cream, Turkish labneh, a little butter, salt, black pepper, and paprika together. I put them on the fire and they put the corn. Hello. I loved it, but my husband told me he didn't like it. My husband told me, by God, if you introduce it with butter, salt, and that's enough, everyone according to his taste, Glory be to God, here here too. Why did you like so much pomegranate? Because it is a lot of pomegranates, it is good for anemia , because I always have anemia, so I like it a lot in a lunch box and at the same time I make it because I put it in the refrigerator when I want to get out of it, I put it in a box. Pamper yourself, make something, eat it, and remember, and if you like it, try this recipe, and if you like it, pray for me, and also don't forget to follow me on Snapchat. I will see you in a new video and I will say hello to you