NARRATOR: The Knights Templar. A secret brotherhood born in the throes only to vanish after (Ominous music playing) Of these men remains the legends Their white overcoats The riches they amassed. Their discipline and ferocity These were the elite troops, the special forces NARRATOR: After 1,000 years, mysteries of these soldiers of Christ. FEMALE VOICE: Are they priests? Are they knights? What are they? An English chronicler called (Heroic music playing) NARRATOR: of the Order of the Temple? What was its mission? And how did the Templars so quickly? By the end of the 12th century the Templars had become NARRATOR: Thanks to experts along with an investigation where the only written evidence we discover the birth a unique paradox of men (Speaking French) that there's a military code within a religious rule. (Speaking French) who felt it was an abomination to try to bring together (Epic music playing) NARRATOR: to the royal courts discover the rise See how they rallied the Pope, all across Europe People began to offer large numbers of donations (Speaking French) The county Ile de France, saw the birth and commanderies It was completely unprecedented that powerful, that quickly. NARRATOR: This is the story of the Knights Templar, a handful of men who transformed into a religious order (Flames crackling) NARRATOR: Jerusalem. It was here, that the first Knights Templar At the time, Nearly destitute. But all are of great piety and have been trained in combat. Sworn to dedicate their lives protection of the Holy Land, and of the Christian pilgrims (Solemn music playing) To understand the origins we must go back to the end At the time, In the west, was under the authority of the Islam dominates North Africa, while the Turks threaten and its capital Constantinople, territory With Pope Urban II's the First Crusade witnessed marching across Europe After three years these crusaders reclaimed in particular where Jesus Christ was crucified They got to Jerusalem and camped outside the city laying siege to Jerusalem, and once they breached the city walls in July, It was said that blood This could be Medieval chronicles the scale of carnage, Muslims were slaughtered. NARRATOR: to the Crusader States: the county of Edessa, the county of Tripoli SEAN MARTIN: this three-year epic journey, with tens of thousands of people a lot of them just went back (Rumble of marching feet) NARRATOR: At the dawn the security threatened from all sides, rested on only a few knights who chose to settle there. (Chattering voices) The challenge facing in the east is to try and turn their into permanent territories From a military perspective, who can raise armies And in Aleppo, and also Fatimid, Egypt which can raise Given that the Crusader States, can't put together with a slightly larger that's a very serious challenge. (Dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: In Jerusalem, Christian pilgrimage and is organized by the The King of Jerusalem, the Latin Patriarch and the Canons which govern religious life MAN SPEAKING FRENCH: that is located at the site and the burial of Christ. It's a church that attracted and therefore which happens of Jerusalem. And therefore it's the Patriarch and the Canons, is really structured. NARRATOR: At their side of the Order of the Hospitallers to help welcome pilgrims But guaranteeing their safety is becoming MAN SPEAKING FRENCH: were under constant threat from ambushes, so all pilgrims arriving in the vicinity The outskirts of this holy land (Dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: At the time, the Knights Templar The soldiers charged were called The Knights (Speaking French) It's who organize themselves To protect men, throughout The milites sancti sepulcri are neither part of the Holy Sepulcher nor of the Hospitaller Order It could be said that who are committed to protecting to defending, if need be, those areas are in a kind They are dependent on the Canons and dependent of Saint John of Jerusalem who maintain and nourish them. NARRATOR: Among these one knight will claim His goal is to form A hybrid order, which no one had ever dared Soldiers of a new kind, This knight is the founder as the Order of the Temple. His identity and history in a 12th century chronicle patriarch of the Jacobite church MALE VOICE: At the beginning a Frenchman came from Rome He had made a vow not to return but to become a monk after having helped the King Along with the 30 knights he would spend the rest When the king and his barons saw that the Frenchman had achieved remarkable things they advised the man with his 30 knights and defend the place rather than become a monk in the hope of saving Now this man, whose name accepted this counsel, and the 30 knights joined and united with him. NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns. Born in the Champagne region in a small village located 12 kilometers He is a knight in the service With his suzerain, Hugues de Payns will spend at the beginning before returning to Europe. (Speaking French) Hugues He had a wife and children. And then in 1114, touched by a deep piety that must have inhabited him he went back to the Holy Land, and this time he left that he would never come back. (Inaudible) GHISLAIN BRUNEL: Hugues de Payns a defender of the Holy Land. He truly experienced and it must have been In Jerusalem, one could not be One could only be a knight turned towards God, so this idea when he arrived in Jerusalem. NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns And in 1119, one event (Epic music playing) On June 28th, 1119, Muslims of the city of Aleppo attack the Principality The intensity of the fighting that the event will be baptized as the Ager Sanguinis: the battle (Clatter of swords) It is Baldwin II, who will come in person This battle reinforced that the threat to the Crusader (Speaking French) realized that he needed than he had on the ground. He needed border guards, escorts on the roads He needed additional forces. NARRATOR: in the small city of Nablus north of Jerusalem, that a council was to take place that would change Assembled around Baldwin II, and the Patriarch the council brought together and nobles of the kingdom. On that day, the two men approved the project The formation both religious and military, dedicated entirely (Speaking French) by the King to gamble that these knights and the Patriarch which was not because these knights who had gathered in the shadow were empowered. They detached themselves they claimed to lead to no longer obey the directive but a master chosen without ceasing that is to say, (Dramatic music playing) NARRATOR: who will offer the members a place to settle. This place is mentioned written by William of Tyre, known for being the first MALE VOICE: Over the course some noble knights to the service of Christ, and professed to live forever obedience and poverty. As they had neither church the king granted them which was located PHILIPPE JOSSERAND: made a very strong gesture by offering his palace to them Baldwin's palace of the Esplanade of the Mosques, south of the Temple Mount. It extended the former palace And so Hugues de Payns somehow took on the name by calling themselves &quot;The Poor Fellow-Soldiers and of the Temple of Solomon.&quot; NARRATOR: The Poor and of the Temple of Solomon. Later, and the group will become one in all history: The Order of the Temple. (Dramatic music playing) Faced with the ongoing conflicts the members must now find a way to grow. The Templars in the 1120s, what they really needed high quality recruits, money, that would supply the resources NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns to embark on a vast recruitment GHISLAIN BRUNEL: France, Champagne, to try to recruit NICHOLAS MORTON: for the King of Jerusalem, he went into all the major People began to get curious what his order and when they found out, they were immensely impressed huge sums of money. Large numbers of donations So much so that it became very, (Epic music playing) NARRATOR: and the founders know that to bring more men they need to be recognized by the highest authorities In the beginning people were asking questions &quot;Are they priests? Are they monks? What are they?&quot; Because a priest, a monk, but they are fighters, GHISLAIN: who considered it prayer and combat In his desire to transform it into an order, Hugues de Payns of the Roman Church NARRATOR: Hugues de Payns in a region close His first wife, is a relative in which we also find in ascendancy and recognized Bernard de Fontaine, who later becomes and after he is canonized, Saint Bernard. GHISLAIN BRUNEL: Saint Bernard and in 1115 he founded the abbey of Clairvaux. He also came from chivalry, from the border of Burgundy So he had of a man of combat, with a great strength a very great orator a rigorous life which was the figurehead in the 12th century. Saint Bernard was already a considerable figure a sort of moral figure both for the clergy He saw in the Knights Templar to support the continued but he also wanted to reform For over 100 years, one of the biggest problems was to reform Knights were troublemakers. They fought vendettas they caused trouble, And so Bernard of Clairvaux saw the idea of using the Templars as a role model &quot;This is how you should be.&quot; Tried to steer them away and into what he perceived to be Convinced that this new Order represented an opportunity Bernard de Clairvaux which would go down in history, entitled, &quot;In Praise MALE VOICE: This is which fights a dual battle and against evil spirits. They live dwell under one roof, have no property of their own. They have no fear of sin because it is for the sake that they give or receive They are more gentle than lambs, and fiercer than lions, so much so, that we do not know whether to call them monks (Bell tower ringing) MARINA: What is stated in his was of course justification but it wasn't just that. What is most important is the opposition that he makes The profane chivalry, or seek after richness and love their beautiful horses, and another kind This new chivalry by the Templar Knights, that really don't care individual richness, And they put their lives in support of Jerusalem, and Christianity in the end. NARRATOR: the authorities under the direction organized the Council of Troyes, bringing together members of the clergy, nobles and representatives During this council, the very first rule and put down in writing. Today, only ten original copies Among them is this work, and kept in the National Library (In French) The manuscript the Rules of the Temple, which continues Then there's that the Templars received and then the bulk by the rules of the Temple. So, for all of This allows us to say to the Templars. It most probably even belonged to an important house because with a beautiful layout, with the watermarked letters So this is something important. (Pounding drum beat) NARRATOR: we find the names of those The first is perhaps Cardinal Matthew of Albano, The following gathered in the cathedral among them, The archbishops the bishops of Soissons, Paris, eight abbots, Bernard de Clairvaux, noblemen such as and William, At the end are named present among them, master of chivalry. (Orchestral music playing) On the 12 pages of manuscript, written on goatskin parchment, are all the recommendations for members The rhythm of prayers the care required or the food MALE VOICE: You are to eat meat NARRATOR: down to the last detail. Because unlike monks, the knights cannot fast They must maintain to be ready for battle. MALE VOICE: from the great services can avoid getting up with the permission It's a really incredible the fact that inside there is a military part... There's even a military code inside of a religious order. A little further, reads... that the participants will bring the Christian church MALE VOICE: We believe that was born in the holy land thanks to divine Providence. This means that this without committing a sin, kill the enemies of the cross. For this reason, the right to be called For the first time, that one can kill and that its armed branch The order of the temple. It was the Council of Troyes which marked the birth and transformed the community gathered around Hugues de Payns into a structure To some people was actually almost heretical. One of the English chroniclers by the name of called them, The Council of Troyes a new era And the fame immediately spreads After the council of Troyes because this new order to the western world. Especially of course of the western world that had found a way to invest their donations in something that was different from the traditional Donations began to grow, They grew constantly and quickly in very few years and in the 30's already they are powerful in the East. They are starting to build They became Europe's since the days Rome had collapsed so it's the first in about six or 700 years. This was a really radical shift. You had a permanent defending Christendom, defending Christian interests. Once the donations of land they were able A medieval knight of a modern-day A fully armed knight was an awesome You needed to run. These were the elite troops. The Special Forces It was at this time, the first symbols of recognition on which their legend would gradually be built. The initial knights weren't the Poor Fellow Soldiers and the Temple of Solomon. They were literally poor. Just the clothes they wore, their swords and a few horses. So after the Council of Troyes, you get massive donations and all of a sudden So the white surcoat We would call it but to a medieval person This long white mantle is precisely the mark of the since this Red Cross shed by Christ therefore the commitment in his turn to lay down his life and shed his blood and the kingdom of Jerusalem. The mission of is to defend the Holy Land. They must not only but also how to make new weapons organize their movements, and build strongholds Thanks to the donations, the Order of the Temple The Templar Order The most famous To be recruited as a brother someone would normally be they'd have been so they'd already have the functions of If you were not from but from a free background, or from a family of merchants you would generally as a Templar Sergeant. Templar Sergeants could fight, but it's from their ranks their ship builders, their estate managers, people The third type who have been and act as chaplains When the applicant he commits himself and the obligations take place The absolutely decisive moment is when the Templar's mantle is put around Here, he truly enters And then, immediately, he swears to respect poverty, obedience and he also swears to fight for the holy land. We sometimes refer to this it's something quite essential knight, sergeant, or chaplain, whether in the West ideally competes in the defense It's an entry into brotherhood, an entry into an Order, hence the importance the importance of the sword Gradually, Templar houses were created in Western Europe. The brothers live there the guidelines of the Temple To prepare to fight in the East and to grow the wealth to finance the Holy War. A commandery is a large building with common buildings, and above all, a chapel. The commandery is where and performs the canonical The county of Champagne, Burgundy, Provence, Auvergne, Ile de France saw the birth of networks and commanderies The network formed quite quickly The commanderies and to recruit locally. Their establishment, their daily relationship also served to feed In 1136, Hugues De Payns, dies after returning He is replaced by Robert de Craon who brilliantly organizes and management which continue to develop 10 years after events are accelerating. On March the 29th, 1139, Pope Innocent II which will go down in history. A document which bears &quot;Omne Datum Optimum,&quot; the 3 Latin words MALE VOICE: Every good grace descends from above, from the Father of Light, or shade of variation. We exhort you to fight the and as reward, we allow you all the spoils without anyone having a share of them. And we declare that with all its assets acquired the kings and the princes, and guardianship According to this text, not only can the Templars during battles against but they place themselves under The Pope himself. MALE VOICE: No one can force you but we confirm to you of the tithes given to you So that you may have and care for your souls, for the practice of and giving of the you may admit clerics We grant you the power in all the places so you and your relatives and be buried there, for it is bad for your morals on their way to church, should mingle and those who keep The order of the Temple will will have the right without going through train its own priests, build its own churches, and anyone who questions will be excommunicated. The Templars were not subject to the authority no Archbishops, no Bishops, except for the Pope himself. This gave the order a great deal at least within It also stirred up resentment among the Archbishops, and who felt the order had and wasn't responsive Over the following years, will further strengthen given to the Templars. In 1144, the faithful were expressly to the mission It was stipulated that the Pope to the benefactors MALE VOICE: He who has God has entrusted to them and who has established a bond and allowed them to make will receive a reduction on the penances he has incurred. Huge tracks of land were given But even small grants of land farms, water mills, If somebody wanted they would accept everything. No donation was too large because it was all of keeping the Christian It was very good for a Christian to donate to an order it was good for your soul it minimized and ensured you went when the time came. In 1145, a new papal bull the right to bury their brothers and to travel freely So from 1129 to 1146 we could compare them going from a small startup Even today It was completely unprecedented for a small group of people It had never happened before. But while the Templar enterprise in the East, the situation has deteriorated. Defeated in Damascus in 1129, in Ba'rin in 1137, in Tecua in 1139, and especially in Edessa in 1144 where it is said that 30,000 The failures of the Crusaders These weren't the setbacks but of the army which were starting perhaps a few dozen Templars, but these setbacks were bitter. The Templars still lacked and the qualities of Order and were not really imposed. In the face of these defeats and the threats to Christians Pope Eugene the Third With the papal bull he called for a new crusade. Bernard de Clairvaux himself is in charge of mobilizing On March the 31st, 1146, at Vezelay in Burgundy, he preached the journey by promising to those the absolution of all sins. Among the many sovereigns who joined the 2nd crusade, was Louis the Seventh, and his wife To help in their endeavor, they turned to those The Knights Templar! In 1147, Louis the Seventh from the order of the Temple for the first time They already have resources to help the king arming ships, etc. These are the Templars protectors, guides, and the crusade route They suffered very harsh and it was the Templars led by marshal Evrard des Bars who will become grand master, who saved the royal army. Louis VII is not the only one Conrad the Third, also made his way with nearly 20,000 men But from the first the armies of the two kings against the Muslims. Mount Cadmus... Dorylaeum... Inab. Defeats follow, And the deaths pile up. Financing these losing battles is beginning to cost So, to find the necessary money, Louis VII needs help. He will turn once again the Knights Templar. When the Crusade Louis turns to the master &quot;Can you help us?&quot; So the Grand Master and gets the money This is the first time effectively as bankers They're not just supporting the interests of the Church and fighting for Christ They are now, by the time also financially very powerful. And literally Despite financial assistance the troops of the King of France were unable to recover any After three years of fighting, the two sovereigns give up. A crusade for nothing. Which will nevertheless benefit the Order of the Temple. The second crusade It ended with nothing at all. Mostly because the presence of Conrad III revealed to be a problem. They disagreed They made all the possible like taking the siege which ended up badly with a lot of money spent. He had to ask in order to go back to France. The defeat of the second crusade probably helped the Templars. They had lent money to the King. They were the forces that surely ended well The Knights Templar had shown by loaning money and also reorganizing they had shown how This would not be forgotten The Second Crusade will be And Louis the Seventh greatly weakened financially, However, his ordeal contributes to the growth of the Knights Templar. He returned from the Holy Land with a lofty idea of what the For him, this order shines and it has no equivalent He gives them income he cedes to them that becomes the great This is a king who shows of the sovereigns for since it is less than 30 years and the King of France of the Knights of the Temple. During the Second Crusade, the Templars were able to supply their own contingents whilst continuing their work they were also able to afford massive loans to support the King of France's By the end of the 12th century the Templars had become a We don't know precisely but there were probably about in the crusader states. But with a much larger and other employees In Western Europe possibly an even larger brother Sergeants, all there to facilitate to the Holy Land. The Templars developed but I think they were just At the beginning of the the order of the Temple Supported by Popes and Kings, the Order accumulates building commanderies and castles in the East. Its ranks The reign of these was only beginning. Subtitling TITRAFILM