So this thing may look like an ordinary power but if we take a closer look at the label special. Because yes; this power bank can output 100W this super bright 100W High Power LED. Outputting so much power with such a small about it because in theory you could partly horse computer. Even laptops can be charged and solely powered And this is of course all possible because protocols like PD aka power delivery. With it you can can get 20V from the power of 5A equals our 100W. So far this all sounds fantastic but a small of this power bank which is 74Wh. If you divide that capacity by 100W then this which is not very long and it could only charge something times. So what we need is a bigger battery and luckily which according to its description could help more capacity and still a 100W Output. And that of course brings us to the age old a 100W power bank and at the end of this video Let's get started! This video is sponsored by Onshape which is design the enclosure for my DIY Power Bank. And the best news first this CAD software designed for businesses as well - and since and works like google drive, you can use this Of course it also comes with all the design software and after just a couple of minutes thus created my powerbank design within an So If you want to give it a try go to Onshape.Pro/GreatScott Now before starting anything with the PCB and I have to say that the quality is pretty Its main IC is the IP2368 which according as well as the product description of the but it also manages the power electronics. In our case those are mainly 4 N-Channel MOSFETs H-Bridge Synchronous Buck Boost Converter. Sounds complicated but in a nutshell such either steps it up or down to reach the 5V, for. For each voltage level the converter also I am honestly most curious about the 20V 5A So what the PCB can output is clear but what Well, according to the product description parameters by using different resistor values to the PCB. Those parameters include the battery chemistry, series, what capacity your pack comes with And if we for example calculate with the maximum 25Ah and a nominal voltage of 22.2V which capacity than the buy version, not bad. In my practical case though I ordered myself come with a capacity of 3.2Ah and can output I will be putting 2 of them in parallel to 6.4Ah and 4 of those pairs in series in order This way the final pack should be able to it will come with a capacity of 95Wh which And best of all the standard resistor values of my battery pack. The only thing missing was the charging current Only problem was that the product description and I had to investigate the Chinese datasheet that the board was in fact in the constant is set by this resistor that is 27kohm and for my pack. And with that out of the way all the input on to soldering a + and - wire to the board set to the battery voltage to do some initial And at first the board was not in the mood that I firstly had to hook up a power source gets initially charged and thus recognized. With that out of the way I was able to activate about and next I lowered the input voltage monitor LEDs would react but they apparently What I found out is that the IC utilizes a the initial battery charge through the start power is going in and out to light up more of that is in accordance with the set capacity I properly tested this later and this feature So next I did the 100W power test with my and as it turns out the output voltage does At 4.6A however the voltage is still acceptable for such a board that doesn't even get hot touch all the components without getting burnt And while I was already doing current tests, at different voltage levels while writing And as it turns out the max current at the and according to this efficiency graph you So last but not least I lowered the simulated cut off its output power to prevent an over Cell which fits just fine. OK, with all the output testing done it was pack for which I only needed an additional strips. I used them to firstly create the parallel correctly afterwards, I used them once again I only cover this topic briefly here because past video so definitely check them out if And with the bare battery pack complete and was missing was adding a BMS like this one and under-voltage protection and also balances All I had to do was mount it to the battery cells, plug in the connector and add power And after then connecting those power wires less complete. First of I of course tested the charging capabilities 4.5A into the batteries. I of course let the whole pack also charge PCB truly cuts of the charging at the correct And for the last tests I once again tried using the powerbank to charge up more traditional So all in all this DIY almost 100W Power Bank I got for it is that it only comes with one such a useful display the Buy version comes But aside from that it also got tons of good this chart here. And the winner for me in this episode are the Buy version here really offers a good Now to finish off my DIY version though I for it which I then 3D printed. And with all the electronics placed and screwed my project came to and end and I hope you such 100W Power banks. If so consider supporting me through Patreon Don't forget to like, share, subscribe and Stay creative and I will see you next time.