(sinister ambient music) - [Narrator] There's a weapon to get rid of leaders they don't like, leaders from other countries. It's called a coup. It's a French word that because it kind of means coming in and forcibly punching out No elections, no process, just someone being pushed Coups happen in so many different ways, but I wanna show you how by the United States of America as a tool to get what they So let me walk you through some of the major US-led to show you that, while we live in a world full the reality is that the will often get their way by Okay, so here's how I'm defining the US-led coups that I'm Number one, they were successful. There's a lot of failed coup attempts. We're leaving those out. Number two, there must be at least one US government And number three, we need the US was actually involved, While the US has been involved in tons of regime change we landed on a much shorter list. These are the coups that I think best exemplify how this tool has been used for international power over the years. Let's start here, (distorted, cheesy Hawaiian music) in the independent country of Hawaii. it's 1893 and the US is feeling a threat to American control over sugar. It's sugar that's being grown by the descendants of white who had settled in Hawaii over the years. So the US sends a military to show up to Honolulu, and they overthrow the queen, installing one of those descendants of Sanford B. Dole as the new president. Notice his last name? Yeah, this coup was one of the US's first, and it set the stage not only for the new to grow their powerful which was based in Hawaii, but also for Hawaii to be annexed, to become a part of the United States. I made a whole video on this and there's so much going on here. And it was really a turning point in showing how the US could in far away places, something that they start We're gonna move on to the next coup, but I need to thank today's sponsor who makes these videos possible. Thank you Nord VPN for I've started using Nord VPN When I'm traveling, I connect to the internet so that all of my accounts I'm someone from another country Oh, and by the way, that from different countries as but it's more than that. It is a password manager, It blocks annoying ads, it It provides all these which more and more is And the best part is you don't have to be a It's one click away and you or you can have it just and you just have it And not just for one computer. When you sign up for Nord, you can get up to six devices by Nord's many different And at the end of the day, you don't have to take my word for it. You can go try it out, and you get all your money back. For 30 days, so it's like a trial period. Oh, and Nord VPN just turned 11 years old, and so if you click the for a limited time, you will Not totally sure what it is, but who doesn't like a free mystery gift? Thank you Nord VPN for Let's get back into the map. I gotta get outta here because We got a lot more to cover on these coups. The next coup has to do with Spain. Well, actually more like Spain's colonies. (percussive ambient music) Spain's glory days have come and gone. They are a declining empire and there is major especially in Cuba, Puerto Meanwhile, the US is a rising empire and they already are Spain having colonies like a But at the same time, they true independence for places These are strategic islands And like Hawaii, American particularly in Cuba. Independence might mean So the US delves into this fight between Spain and their colonies. They use the explosion as their excuse, even though it was likely But sometimes stories So the US sends in troops fighting against their Spanish colonizers, promising them independence, not only in Cuba and Puerto Rico, but later, over here in These local uprisings eventually and in all of these cases, the to give independence to these locals. And they figure out ways to indirectly themselves. The US has just piggybacked off several independence movements to enact several coups at once, allowing them to install and a Navy base in Cuba, and eventually annexing which they still control, and the Philippines, which Again, I made a whole if you wanna go deeper. Anyway, we gotta move because we're not gonna get Let's move on. Okay, so we're over here (bright, quaint piano music) There's a bunch of powerful but a new president comes to The US is not gonna let this happen. So the Secretary of State to smear this guy, this president, saying that he's building a canal that would compete with the Panama Canal. But really they're just upset because Nicaragua was taking loans from Europe. The US keeps painting and someone worthy of being thrown out. So, push comes to shove and the US sends ships to They assemble a bunch basically just flexing on Nicaragua and telling the president to step down. And the benefit of being a it worked, he has no And soon a leader that the The coup is complete. And really, this is the the US meddling in Nicaragua. A few years later, the for another coup in next door Honduras. This one was plotted by a band and it follows a similar pattern. A new president comes to town, in this case directly inspired and he wants to take back from American businesses. In this case we're talking about bananas. The banana companies were And it was mostly this guy, a banana businessman He's not gonna let this pesky So he assembles his own militia, he literally buys a surplus Navy ship, loads it up with weapons, and starts his campaign He sails from New Orleans and he literally invades the country with, like, a private army. Wait, what? Where's the They also didn't like the political direction So they just sort of stood back, let this private invasion happen. And then at the critical moment, the US steps in to order a ceasefire, basically bullying the He had no way forward, no (urgent synth music) And the Banana Man's leader of giving the banana businessman to import anything he needs tax free and, wait for it, he refunds him for all of the coup expenses This Banana Man literally and made Honduras pay for it. Wow. Okay, so let's move the coup becomes a more useful There's this new US agency dedicated to collecting from all over the world, They call it the Central And it completely revolutionizes Oh, and at this point, the US is now a full-blown No longer just looking in but rather at the whole world map, investing huge resources into fighting their global rival So this gets us to Iran 1953, a new star politician, Mohammed Mosaddegh. He rises the power believing that Iran must take back control of its most valuable natural resource, oil, which at the time was a British company called the We know it today as BP. Mosaddegh is done with this. &quot;Let's kick the British But like the US, Britain is not happy with Iranians trying to take So they warn that if they do this, there will be consequences. So the British catch a quick meeting with the CIA's Middle East guy, who was passing through London, and they pitch him on this idea. &quot;Let's throw out Mosaddegh.&quot; The CIA's like, &quot;Okay.&quot; And they kind of sniff with this big desire to Or at least they tell themselves they do. So the CIA agrees, and they He's the Middle East Bureau he's like in his thirties. Oh, and yes, he is the grandson of another big coup guy, Teddy Roosevelt, who I have gone into in other videos. Roosevelt sneaks into Iran and is given a million &quot;in any way that would bring So now there's American CIA agents in Iran secretly trying to And it's a rocky start at But they start using their bribing politicians, religious to say divisive and controversial They hire locals to stage attacks making it look like they had been ordered but really, they were getting And with enough time and money, they create an atmosphere and distrust among the public. Oh, and there's weapons. The CIA stashes enough weapons a, quote, &quot;10,000 man guerilla Like, just in case they need The result of all of this is more violence and chaos Shops are being destroyed, people are beaten, and thousands of paid The city falls into anarchy, all of it orchestrated by CIA money. And in the end, this all results in a bloody shootout at Mosaddegh's house. He eventually gives up He's put through a sham trial and sentenced to three years and then house arrest, where The previous ruler of Iran, Mohammed Reza Shah, had fled the country. But now, with the democratically and with the backing of the US and UK, he could charter a flight back - [TV Reporter] The Shah crowns himself in a tradition which His title is King of Kings, and he becomes emperor of his nation. (suspenseful string music) - [Narrator] The US really They got what they wanted. They now have an in a powerful country in the Middle East who is now welcoming to get in on one of the Under the Shaw, Iran becomes He executed military anyone associated with Mosaddegh. He set up a secret police So brutal that in 1979, burst forth in mass protests that ran the Shaw out of office and replaced him with who would turn Iran built in part off a for the US having The Islamic Republic has and has morphed into the though maybe not for long. Before we go on, a quick these plans to overthrow did not require American or approval of Congress. It was usually just a few key men in government buildings in Washington DC making this happen. These people would go on and shape so many covert many of which we'll never know about. Okay, let's keep going. The next year in Guatemala, the CIA tried to pull the same playbook that they used in Iran, once again targeting a leader but who wanted to take back for the people, to break up these American monopolies that controlled the country's The president even starts to seize land from one massive banana company. It was often unused land that to the locals who could farm and hopefully climb out of the system of endemic Once again, I made a whole video on this, the geopolitics of bananas But the fact is that the US decided that they had to defend the banana companies or else more communist So the US president and secretary of state ordered an overthrow, and the CIA got right to work. The CIA hand selects a leader and then they start giving a bunch of Guatemalan They set up a secret operation base on the outskirts of Miami. They start delivering But like the other coups, it can't just all be about weapons. They gotta own the information space. So they create a radio station that sounds like it's a local but really it's being operated out of a small town in Florida. And they start publishing fake news about an uprising, unrest, a rebellion. And then at the same time, the fighters that the invades Guatemala. Pilots start dropping bombs on fuel tanks and military But they weren't starting a full-on war. They weren't trying to cause real damage. They wanted it to feel like a war was on the horizon, to freak people out, and They thought that this was a real uprising and had no idea that the But the president knew what was up. He had messed with the USA Military leaders in his circle from the big bully from the north and they turn on him and On his way out, the president makes it very clear that, quote, &quot;The United Fruit Company, in collaboration with the United States, is responsible for what And just like that, one president is out and the handpicked CIA option is in. This new regime is brutal and detaining people they killing prisoners, and in the process restoring and ensuring that they maintained their hold on this economy. This kicks off an era in Guatemala of more political something that still And yet to this day, the Soviets were ever slightly Communism was once again the excuse, but really this was about securing American business interests, tearing a country apart for bananas. Bananas taste the best All right, let's go to Africa. So, it's 1960 here in a country called Congo. They just gained and they have an election, and this guy Patrice Lumumbau wins, becomes the prime minister. But immediately, over in Washington, the communist alarm bells because we're in the and Congo is a place full of including loads of uranium, the main ingredient for nuclear bombs. This is at a time when Americans are keeping gas and have hordes of canned And officials in Washington can't risk Congo falling into the So they start focusing The CIA director called him, quote, &quot;An urgent and prime quote, &quot;be a high priority So they pull a more political They start allying with and Congo's former colonizer, Belgium. They bribe politicians, they fund protests and labor movements, and they circulate propaganda, similar ingredients to the previous coups. And when the moment is right, all these bribed politicians They'd remove Lumumba from giving money and intelligence and advice to the new government. This political solution was The CIA had tried to assassinate but all of those attempts failed, which is why they turned to hijacking and manipulating a brand new democracy, supporting the people who put Lumumba in front of a Congolese and Belgian firing squad, making this effectively supported from an ocean away. And yet there's so much In this case, it's really tough to prove that the CIA's support was the key factor in It's debated to this day. An effective foreign-sponsored operating in the shadows, appealing to the worst demons through money, through influence. All right, let's move on to (urgent synth music) There's a brutal dictator here I mean, this guy's really bad. He's rumored to feed But anyway, what the there's fear that a communist revolution could happen at any moment. So the CIA sends weapons who go assassinate this guy. It ends up being an They're successful in taking him out, ending his 31-year rule. And eventually the US sends to make sure that a leftist They restore order, and eventually a US-friendly Okay, so now we have to head (suspenseful string music) And boy, this is a way bigger but we're trying to focus Vietnam was divided in two, between communist and The US needs the South but Washington starts to the South's leader, he's and the US fears that communism will take over the whole country of Vietnam. So the CIA rolls up its sleeves, This time they focus on a who also doesn't love the president, and he agrees to do the CIA's bidding. And when given the signal, the to seize the airport and radio stations, and they block off highways. They march to the presidential palace, a bloody shootout goes down, and this president, He happens to be with his brother, but it's not going well for he needs to set up a meeting to surrender. They're gonna meet at a Catholic church. This was probably gonna but when the generals arrive, they just kill him on &quot;To kill the weed, you Meaning in order to solve Exile was not enough. Now the US actually didn't They didn't want to kill this guy. It was not an official But they made this coup happen. JFK is said to be really The first American Catholic that killed the first And incidentally, JFK was And one national security journalist argues that Diem's a greater impact on American because it locked the US into a decade of conflict in Vietnam, which ballooned into a long war ending in an embarrassing defeat and a political crisis at home. One of the few coups where the US actually had to Okay, let's blast through a I'm gonna skirt over some details here. It's 1964, and Brazil is potentially veering off into communism, with the rise of a new leftist leader. Lucky for the CIA, there's already a coup So the US military just off the coast of Brazil. They airlift in a bunch of They didn't end up having Instead, they just stood and watched the Brazilian coup go down. The leftist leader goes down In 1973, there's a coup in Chile that is a very complicated and we went down a super deep rabbit hole and we've decided that because the evidence is not rock solid, we're going to cut it for time, but definitely some crazy shit went down, I'm not saying it didn't. (urgent jazz drum music) Okay, we're back in Africa And over here in Libya, the was making lots of trouble in the region, funding terrorist groups and working to expand his Then he gets a call from his neighbor Chad asking for help against a rebellion. Gaddafi eagerly sends 4,000 troops to occupy a huge part of the country and makes friends with the new president by helping him exile his rival. And soon Gaddafi is getting greedy and threatening to merge Chad into Libya. The US is not into this. So Ronald Reagan fires up launching a covert war, sending weapons and and supporting that political helping him fight back, and it works. The president of Chad has to flee and the US backed and and now there's a conflict, and the CIA continues arming the war even after this guy is in office. The new US-backed leader until he's eventually overthrown And in 2013, he was charged torture and war crimes. Okay, now let's go to this (percussive jazz music) It's communism again, and to invade this small remote island and remove their communist leader. They didn't really know much and they literally had to use tourism maps to plan their invasion. Anyway. American forces move in, who happen to be joined the government collapses and the US-friendly leader comes to power. Okay, back down to Central America. It's 1989 and we're here in Panama where the US has control And luckily the Panamanian very friendly to American interests. But the US starts losing wondering if he's really the best choice, ensuring the US maintain easy Oh, and it didn't help that on drug trafficking and We gotta get him out. But the straw that broke the when Panamanian troops killed an unarmed American The US is done with this guy, so they invade Panama with 27,000 troops. Panama's military is crushed and the dictator is eventually arrested and sentenced to 40 years in prison, and the US ensures access Okay, so now it's the end of the 1980s and the Soviets are invading Afghanistan (urgent string music) and are meeting resistance from all over the world who to fight back against many of them with fundamentalist But the US doesn't care They just care that that against the Soviets and the Soviets' puppet, And it totally works. With the help of the US, these fighters push the Soviets back and successfully run the And as he's being run out of office, he forebodingly warns the Americans that if they leave Afghanistan in that it would, quote, &quot;Be turned into a center for terrorism.&quot; And his prophecy was completely fulfilled. Those US-funded fighters were people whose names we know Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi, the that would eventually become ISIS. Those same weapons that the and to effect regime change in Afghanistan would go on to be used against when the US was back orchestrating yet another against the very groups they once enabled. The US would eventually leave the country immediately We're almost to the end of our list and we're now in modern day, it's 2003, and 150,000 American troops invade Iraq. They say that they are weapons of mass destruction, but their main focus is taking which they do in a matter of weeks. Saddam fleeing into hiding and President Bush declaring establishing an American-friendly creating once again a negative byproduct by alienating huge swaths who form a bunch of that go on to fight against some morphing into groups like ISIS who wreak all kinds of havoc Once again, I made a whole Go check it out. Iraq remains a place of Trust in government is extremely low. And the question of expensive, horrific, destructive coup is still something that there Again, you can go watch (pensive piano music) And this gets us to the It's 2011, during a wave of protests spreading throughout this region, trying to take down all one of which was this guy Muammar Gaddafi. The same Gaddafi we were who was like taking over Chad? He's still here and he's And there's worry that massacre all of these So the US feels like it must get involved to save these protestors. They rally their NATO allies to help them, but at some point the mission switches to total regime change. We don't know exactly how this happened, only the people in the room do. But is it surprising? We've seen this long arc as a force for getting their way in an international conflict. It's a tried and true tool in the American foreign policy toolkit. So it's not surprising that during these difficult So anyway, the target becomes Gaddafi, and now NATO drones are and he eventually gets captured Libya has been in chaos ever since, but it's not like it was a And once again, we're in a gray area where we don't know the history or how things could have if the US didn't get involved. That debate lives on. Okay, so that's our list. These are our coups that we decided to go over in this video. And there are so many more My purpose in doing this of American led coups was so that we can see How a rising superpower became really good at removing leaders that didn't align with their or, in a lot of cases, who were not friendly to But let's be clear, the This is something that powerful countries and What characterizes US-led coups, especially during the Cold War, was how the overthrow of these governments often stamped out new democracies, budding democratic movements, replacing them with authoritarian leaders who would go on to oppress the people with the support and backing and in the process, redirecting Lately, Russia has been meddling in the election process of the United States, and I've been reflecting on The violation of having an external power sowing doubt and polarization and fear in my own democracy, in my own society. It feels like such a violation, and it is. This is giving me just a tiny to have an outside power pulling this strings in your country, tearing it apart for their own purposes, and in the process, creating and for the United States itself, undermining any semblance all in the name of keeping the US on top and dominant over the globe. (wistful ambient music)