Tires no longer have MT features and their tread has decreased. Yes don't go Buy it and wear it, you never know what will happen to it It's raining and it's falling Yes The visibility of our landscape is zero right now But I think we're in a good place Me too Let his tires be mud too Do you need anything? Wait, let me get the bag. You will only need a hammer Let's take off our raincoats We wear it if it rains hold this place Check like this suddenly the sun shined It was very nice but It warmed the air a little, but we were not in the clear yet. clouds are moving pretty fast Is the sky thundering? Yes my feet felt relieved It was obvious from that thunder that it was going to rain well overspeeded Is he coming in? very bad It's raining a lot, let's close it let me give you this Is the battery finished? Yes it's done That's right, we haven't charged for two or three camps. take this and use it but it rained It's completely stopped now, right? It has stopped completely now, but the weather is cloudy and it is not clear what will happen when. This is also filled with some water watch out for it ahh! My God, look at the beauty in front of you Green has wonderful color tones It rained, how does it create steam on the hot soil? I guess it started to rain again started here you go one in one out like ohh miss If it rains in two minutes, go back inside. I also want Thank you my dear good luck to you too It didn't dry very well it's raining again I was just going to sit outside and drink tea. shall we get up? It's starting to get cool inside, let's set up the stove a bit. Okay, let me put something on too. Clouds came from here again This prevents flames from coming out of the chimney and ensures that it burns longer. When you open the top cover, these appear: There is glass on one side, but this one is compatible with here too. For example, if you want to have glass here in the tent, you can attach it here. very good Should our glass be here? no, let it be on the other side okay ahh it endures like that If you want, you can fold it and put other things in the box. Are you going to wear it now? Now I'm going to set this up and pass it through with the chimney. let me adjust the size awesome it was nice How to put this on top It would make more sense to attach S irons to this let's keep it like this Aren't these good? Beautiful my dear kubra Sir Can you give me the stool from there? let me give let's light the stove happens I'm going to pour some tea for myself. Would you like to drink it too? Okay, I'll drink a glass and accompany you. If you want, let's take our chairs and drink with the view. happens okay then i fill it You fill it, I'm coming okay Let the paint smell of the stove hold on for a while and let the tent air out properly. Yes Let's go to one of the most beautiful views you will ever see. here you go Really great isn't it great? really amazing very cute color tones that view! camping there? Or camping here? Here We hear the bells of the sheep across the street very nice it resonates so much Should we get up? We have a lot of work to do. meal time because I'm going to get hungry until aww how nice it sang Is there anything to do here? no The weather is sunny again it is never clear it's cold but it's chilling It's warm inside the tent, it's very nice When will you throw away the coal? let the wood burn a little longer When it collapses, I will throw the wood on it thoroughly. We wear it when using the curtain we wear it together can you give me the black light tabi ki, al I'm taking it to the plates now hmmm fluffy everywhere is fog Covered everything very well I'll take these to the photo trap before it gets dark. Where will you go? I'll walk towards the back for five or ten minutes and tie it to a tree and come back. Come on then, get it done before it gets dark. I will collect these I'm taking it with a plate, dear al al see you later Welcome I need some warmth come in now Can you give me the towel? or so al took off okay good i think okay exactly Is there another one floating around? wow great How is this so? Beautiful beautiful, beautiful, it happened Movie Name: Around the World in 80 Days I didn't watch this It's over, it was a good movie eh it was nice I'm surprised you haven't watched it yet. Me too Goodnight Sweetheart Good night aya bak Oh how the cool weather came Can you put this on already? It will be sunny today that's mine, that's yours take it, let it be yours Let me use it as a bandana and see. okay let's see I think it will be windy today Ahh the water is cold as ice Shall I take the chairs? Okay, let's start the day by sitting for a while in the view. look at the beauty of the water yes there is fog on the water very good The shadow is a little cold, shall we go to the sun? let's go come on If you want, let's go to the photo booth before going to the tent. happens let them stay like this let's put it here not a single bone left Really yes he was here it was right in this area I wonder if you would look? Jackal Do you have a video? Yes there is Look, he's wandering around. looking around what! what is that marten tiny look around oh he ran away we have a guest Yes ayy ayy so excited keep calm keep calm Bismillahirrahmanirrahim Are you hungry? here you go finished If it's over, I'm done with you too, he says and leaves. but you are big Look at the paw, it's huge! I think it's okay Then I'm leaving, let me take the chairs. You can bring these to the table and come back. Yes, the star of breakfast has arrived here you go If the wind blows while I'm eating, I'll see you The wind and cold are starting to freeze now Isn't this the most beautiful place? Yes is it nice? I can't explain it, you have to live it, come on Very good Do we know how the pain will go away? I haven't been stung by a bee for a long time it will pass by But I can't bend my leg It was always because you ate the bottom of that tail. bee veteran Those stuck in the stone have a hard time getting out We have completed another camp, my dear Kubra. as a veteran My leg hurts so much, let's get together Maybe it affects it a little in the heat Easier to assemble than install