Somewhere over Colombia, near the borders with Brazil, is caught in a violent tropical storm. Captain Rahul is trying San Jose, come in. We're entering your airspace. No visibility and no reply on the radio. No question, Flight 3037 is in trouble. To stabilize the twin-engine aircraft, the worst of the storm. However, amidst the turbulence he seems unable to get back His co-pilot, Maria, In the rear, the passengers but Colombians are fatalistic Flying is risky, and it does scare me, and the man who's flying this aircraft. Fortunately, the ancient DC-3 He checks every suspect noise, the mechanical problems are frequent On flights like these, the greatest danger It's the jungle 2000 meters below, the Amazon jungle, a green hell, twice the size of Texas Below, there is no space Any breakdown will mean and then its curtains. Several dozen planes have disappeared Swallowed up by the vegetation, It's one of the most perilous air routes Jumping off point is Villavicencio. The destination is any one of the numbers scattered throughout the jungle Divine intervention means the plane has succeeded The passengers will arrive a small Indian village. The runway, Here, there is no control tower. Everything is done the old-fashioned way Intuition, judgment, and experience. The landing zone is slippery It's also way too short. Pilots need to be able to land virtually I reduced the speed as much as I could. I landed right at the start of the runway so the wheels' friction It slid a bit, About 100 people live in Ak Clara. The plane's arrival that stops here once Without the DC-3, and getting enough food If the plane didn't come here, There are alternatives like the river, How long would it take At least three or four days. The village is a two-week walk to Mito, on the border with Brazil. It's not much of a place, There's a church and a boarding school which takes in the Indian children [Spanish spoken audio] Alfredo Camargo is the headmaster He's depressed today. Over the years, his attempts have all ended in failure. Last year, this tractor It took us 45 days for us to get it here. You see, the idea was to construct a road and transport their goods, for more than a year. The Indians have the same lifestyle hunting, fishing, This is where we keep There are plantains and yuccas, that have been flown in on the plane, There's enough to last a while, with the Indians in return for their We give them soap, salt, Out here, it's a total barter system. Captain Rahul never spends more just long enough to unload. He wants to steer clear of the crowds of children but mostly, You see, They run around playing like it was their playground. I have to take great care in front of the plane like this. The return flight to Villavicencio. The two hours, The passengers aren't comfortable. If they were to crash, Even if they did survive the wild animals they would face another danger. The FARC. The guerrillas of the Revolutionary It's believed their forces number making a living Ingrid Betancourt was held here However, since the election the army has succeeded such as this man who was kept [Spanish spoken audio] After the two-hour flight, The town is in the foothills DC-3s, like the one flown are the stuff of legend. There are still about 100 They were first built more and have survived war That's where flight hours are recorded. We're up to 20,450 hours. During the war, It only began when we started When civil aviation began, really. How old is this aircraft? I think it was updated in 1962, In truth, and as surprising as it may sound. Captain Raul doesn't know Thirty are operational here, of this ancient DC-3s, capable of dealing with the conditions However, accidents do occur. A monument to the high cost In 20 years, over 200 pilots A price that's paid dirt landing strips, The aircraft is due Half the aircraft are always such as Flight 1149, It should have taken off this morning, It's not a problem, according to Jose, There's a slight oil leak. We'll seal it off and then everything should be fine. Jose seems confident, eighteen months ago in this paddy field The DC-3 is the only one The left engine It spluttered, and then it just stopped. We had cargo and 15 passengers on board. We opened the emergency exit Then the other engine shut down, and land it here in the paddy field. We landed okay, and the undercarriage ripped off Today, the same left engine The fault is located after a short period. It appears to be the pump. In the US to fix the pump, Here in Columbia, we're quicker. We fix it right there and then. There doesn't seem to be concern Flight 1149's pilot is Captain Fajardo. Does it seem like the flight is late? Does that happen often? No, it's just a bit Just a slight adjustment in the engine. Nothing serious. The repairs are taking longer and the passengers appear uneasy. They say the planes are very safe, it's scary. Five hours later, and after hesitation, There's always a problem. There's always something wrong. Two weeks ago, on a Sadelca plane, there was an accident, People were stranded We wanted to charter, What was wrong with it again? The propeller wasn't powerful to take off Today, we've been here It's midday, and we won't fly. Sedelca isn't smiling, either. The engine has a serious problem. It needs to be dismounted It's not just the pump It might take a day to fix it, it could take one or two weeks. The storm won't help matters either. There's a power cut, In Colombia, the light from mobile [Spanish spoken audio] The storm means Raul If we don't fly, we don't get any wages, We don't get a penny Captain Rahul is paid far less yet he still has heavy responsibilities. He has to organize the flights Flights are ad hoc. There's no real flight schedule As such, on a given day, and when it's full, off, we go. It's only at the last moment or where we're flying to. We get what hours match the most. To load the plane, Pablo is a shipping agent, who brokers all the air transport There are about 120 kilos for Mito, That's going to Miraflores. That's 120 kilos plus passengers. Despite the unpredictable weather, The rain may have penetrated something that could cause the engines We check by taking a sample so as to get the rainwater out. The petrol is clean, though, After that, the plane is loaded. This is when the shipping agent's To make more money, but Raul is keeping an eye on him. The plane can carry no more Any more, and the Captain It's dangerous. The slightest problem and the plane That's why we have to watch because if something breaks down, and to be able to jettison so we can complete the flight. Vegetables, beds, In Colombia, Anything is transported. Even cocaine. The police check With fuel kept to a minimum, Too much fuel Not enough, One hundred and forty. No, no, no, no. Well, just about. There's enough to get there. Judging the exact amount of fuel How much more do we need, Captain? We've put 20 in here and 20 at the back. That's 150 plus 20. That's 170. [Spanish spoken audio] [Spanish spoken audio] It's a small town the landing strip, the main thoroughfare. Until recently, however, for being a drug capital under the control Please don't get off the plane and if you do get off, The Captain doesn't want us to film Miraflores is under control of the army, The military is everywhere. Once upon a time here, and maybe even 14 flights every day. Now there are only two flights a week One reason there are so few flights its inhabitants We filmed the Miraflores back It had become an El Dorado The plane landed every 50 minutes, loaded down with supplies Watch out. Watch the runway for horses, You've to take care The runway is not being cleared, Four thousand people lived in this town, There was a huge amount People from all over Colombia flocked here It was Colombia's wild West, into brothels and other dives. Here in Miraflores, a bit of drug trafficking. There are a guerrilla war. There's police, murder, and prostitution. There are huge fields of coca plants It's the local specialty. This is an illicit cocaine lab. There are still hundreds more scattered The farmers use them known as pasta, which they then sell The substance is then shipped to more sophisticated laboratories and then smuggled Hey, Luis, have these leaves been mashed? No, we're about to do that next. We collect the leaves, Then they marinate This is water mixed with kerosene, Later, we add ammonia Otherwise, you could filter it What's left is the base, Here in Miraflores, This is about 150 grams, so it's worth 300 euros. We get about a kilo a hectare, but my expenses are about 600 euros. I don't have that much of a profit. It's the people that send it abroad We don't really earn much from it, and maybe buy some Christmas presents. The military was sent in, It's a bit like Vietnam here sometimes. In Miraflores, openly challenging the authority The state also wanted to weaken the FARC, who had made cocaine The army intervened in a ruthless, including commando raids right among the civilians. The war ended with the destruction Tones of cocaine went up in smoke. Traffickers were killed or arrested, and the FARC guerrillas were driven back Few DC-3 fly in or out any longer, especially when At the repair hangar in Villavicencio, to repair the engine There's still the job and making sure it runs smoothly. You have to wonder It works, though, thank God. Yes, gave me quite a headache, though. Captain Fajardo will take the plane up He's been flying DC-3s He's the one who crash-landed and a half earlier. He meticulously checks everything [Spanish spoken audio] The mechanic keeps an eye on the engine, On board, everything seems fine, Everyone's been concentrating When suddenly, and then restarts. Inside the plane, there's a slight panic even with just one engine. The Captain decides to land, [Spanish spoken audio] What's up, John? What's happening? -And? It's low, but we can fix that. [Spanish spoken audio] The DC-3 is soon airborne again. Despite the imminent risk the comforting drone of the engines Even the pilot. In Villavicencio, Captain Raul and his crew and the Captain is uneasy. He'll have to land in Colombia, Everything has to be worked out. The approach speed and the precise place What if you get it wrong? We'll crash or spin off the runway, which is right next to a ravine. Is it big? The ravine at the end about 80 meters. The icing on the cake he will be transporting 1800 liters The fuel attendant isn't pleased fearing a spark from our equipment Okay, go ahead and film, Anything could start a fire, We'd all get barbecued along [Spanish spoken audio] [Spanish spoken audio] [Spanish spoken audio] It's always nerve-racking, When I see we're running out of airstrip and we start to slide left and right, it just keeps going, though, As a precaution, Tito, has removed the rear door. One short circuit, one spark, We'll leave the door open We're carrying fuel, so the plane must be well-vented to avoid a build-up After an uneventful flight, Fortunately, visibility is excellent. In Colombia, they're not the only pilots Aguazul is a three-hour drive This is the Llanos with huge herds of cattle and cowboys. Rice and cereals are also grown here. The area is the country's breadbasket. Shortly after 5:00 in the morning, a 46-year-old pilot, is about to take off. We have to check the brakes and make sure and there are no cracks It's a matter of life and death, then. We dice with death every day. Jose is a special kind of pilot, He sometimes spots a car and like a fighter ace, A highly dangerous maneuver I think I have Well, even more than in a DC-3? Yes, in the DC-3, because of the cargo's weight but once the pilot if there's a problem, We, however, if the engine stops, to find somewhere to land, Jose is a crop duster. His job is to spray fertilizer His Cessna is filled Each farmer concocts his own mixture. There are no controls, Today, his task is to spray pesticides on these fields, and before that, I go from here to, what's that then? Yes, that's where we'll be planting today. What's there on this other side? Therefore to make it worth his while, There's so much. The plane The pilot has to steer to spray the right fields. To prevent the wind Jose flies as low as possible. On average, 12 takeoffs, and landings. We have to keep on our toes Danger can come from anywhere. We're flying a meter above the ground, so we have no time to react We have to focus on the flags and the farmers and, at the same time, I've to remain aware and outside the aircraft. You've to ensure there're like someone walking or trees that might be in the field. To do all of that, Every time he stops to resupply Like a Formula One pit stop, You can't stop for more than 2 minutes. Time is of the essence. Each minute costs me 20,000 pesos. Right now, I'm off. At those prices, he doesn't hang around. There's no routine in the skies, especially when power lines That's really scary. He often has little choice At sunrise, You need to be crazy to do this job, Not a bit, completely. The list of crop duster pilots killed Jose has had some close calls. Thirteen serious accidents. I had two breakdowns in flight, and the rest while I've been working. Once, when I was landing, a wheel broke, I wasn't wearing my belt. When it was rolling, the fuselage cracked, I had hit my head Did they drag you out? It was like being drunk. They dragged me out and held my head, That accident, Jose's worst, He was young, Things have changed now, He and his wife, Julia, are parents and a newborn. He's only 20 days old. I'd like to be around It'll be a while, though, Julia's happiness would be complete When we were going out I realized what I was dealing with. Before that, I hadn't. I'm always wired to tell me the plane has crashed Have you never asked him to change jobs? Yes, all the time To earn a living, but not be a pilot. I'm always asking him to stop flying. Raising kids is much harder Airplanes don't control pilots, Here, partying is a tradition. Each Sunday, Jose and his family The music is the Cantor Llanero songs to the cowboys of this region of Colombia. The Llaneros provide us with everything. They give me work in agriculture The music relaxes me. It's so wonderful. The words are about us and make me feel Every time I take my plane up, I usually have one of the tunes In the Llaneros, and his aerial antics for the foreseeable future. The DC-3s, too, are likely to keep flying