Welcome to MARSEILLE, let's go! So I'm going to do the Fold, bag the butter in the dough and give the fold. Depending on the products you want, we will do 1 double fold and 1 single fold or 2 single fold or 2 double fold. So I spread my dough twice the size of my butter. I moisten it slightly so that the butter adheres to the dough and we will proceed with the turning. I make them 3 by 3 like this afterwards, when I take them again it follows. How many millimeters are you there? 6.5mm So you do a double turn and a single turn and you freeze in the freezer, right? Yes so that they recover well from the cold, not frozen but very hard. How long ? Depending on the season but at the moment a good half hour. And then you switch to positive cold so that the dough comes back nicely. Even if it freezes a little it will return to the ideal temperature for working. Do you roll the brioche in the rolling mill? Yes to do a manual division, without weighing I know that I have 24 brioches, I roll it out in the rolling mill then I will spread the dough over the entire surface of the dough And then all I have to do is cut and divide in 24. This saves me from having to do a manual division and it allows me to divide square brioches. No shaping, no balling and no weighing in the end. Triangle 12cm wide by 60cm long, thickness 6mm weight between 400 and 420g A little relaxation on a board before shaping them We will look for a height of 30 cm To divide by 2 to make strips of 15 cm Thickness 15 mm And then we details, there is more than just following the line. We're going to divide them in 2 And there, we're going to roll in the sugar, then put them in the molds. So I wrap them so that they don't crust at all, otherwise the brown sugar won't stick anymore. so there it is STRAW and KNOT we collect them And we will coat them with brown sugar to rediscover the taste of palm tree. Without having the constraint of Touring with sugar. Same principle as the straws, we coat them in brown sugar. It's just the shaping that will change. And we're going to pinch with circles between each one. We're looking for the middle, and after cooking, this will give me a pinch in the center And the lamination which will open on the sides to have this bow tie effect. Is this a shape that you created for the MOF? No, it was a straw that was botched, and that gave me the idea of the bow tie. I had a straw that had developed differently, and it made the shape of a bow tie. And I said good...It's perfect. Did YOU invent it? Yes yes, this one yes it's a fairly simple bow tie to make That's the Paton for the chocolate Swiss We're going to look for strips 30 cm high by 1.5 cm wide and a thickness of 6mm So here I put 30 cm, and the bar is 1.5 cm wide So it's the same, I trace and I just have to follow We come and prepare the weld by pinching the ends We start with the assembly des Suisses, Vanilla chocolate pastry cream. Coated with the Croissant dough So there are the croissants, 4 kg of dough and 1 kg of butter 1 Double turn and a single turn We are looking to have a triangle 24 cm high and 8 cm wide Thickness 4mm We relax for 30 minutes in the cold. To roll them, it will be easier, the dough will be a little less stressed. Is the dough stressed in Marseille? Sometimes she gets upset, so we calm her down a little After 30 minutes of relaxation in the cold shaping the croissants We pull them a little to have enough turn and also enough force for the OVEN development, for the volume. So, for the pain au chocolat, 4 kg of pasta, 1 kg of butter. A double turn a single turn And we will try to have rectangles 15 cm high by 7 cm wide. End of the day. The pastries are plated and will be stabilized at 3degC until the next day. And then, it will be necessary to heat it up for between 2 hours and 3 hours at 27degC for cooking. so it's brioche, chocolate hazelnuts Brioche, lemon, with a crumble Brioche, pistachio, pumpkin seeds and crushed pistachios Brioche, dark chocolate with cocoa nibs So it's croissant dough, work like a caramelized palm tree in its sugar With a soft caramel, salted butter Go CIAO MARSEILLE!