- Do you ever wonder how much Watch this guy as he reveals everything from starting with less than $500 to building it all on the side. - This year, we're six and we're already at a quarter mill. - Wow. In this episode, we dive of a successful honey farm. - You know, if you're not careful, you'll be working two jobs - Uncover the free money almost every new entrepreneur overlooks. - [James] And that's a $40,000 forklift. I had to pay a service charge of $500. The F-350 there was a thousand bucks. - And at last, discover the unconventional marketing strategy to boost your sales. - This is where the money's made. - And quick thanks to Tailor Brands for making this video possible. Alright, Jim, it is in this hot, humid environment. Let's talk about a little and what ultimately got - So this is Secret Garden I got into this as a way that I picked up during my - Oh wow. - I had some medication I was and it made me feel funny, you know, didn't like the way that worked. So a friend of mine who's also a beekeeper and has similar pieces as a veteran, he said, &quot;Jim, try some bees.&quot; I started doing a little research and I found the Veterans on how it calms people with So I said, &quot;Alright, I'll give it a go.&quot; I was working full time and I needed something. So I got into beekeeping Got two hives with the sole It went really, really well for me. - What about the bees Just curious, if you can That's very unique, very interesting. - Yeah. People say there's You have to stop, focus, calm yourself, move slowly, move deliberately, be in that moment while - So is this where it all started? Give us a little background Secret Garden, what is that from? - So when I started this, I She was really not on board. And so what we did was I and I put 'em on the very It was kind of hidden away. It was a little secret garden of bees. - And how many hives do you have? - [James] 62 hives today. - So four years ago, what What was your initial investment? - About $500. - That's it? A suit, some gloves, you and the two hives themselves, plus the bees that I had to buy. Now you can also order - What? - Yeah, they come in the post office - Like in a box. Just buzzing in there. - Yeah. Yeah. - Three pounds of live bees and a queen. - Give us a quick rundown So 2020 and through 2024. And then what are the margins that you're shooting for in this industry? - Year one we made but that was enough to hit our goal, for getting some tax benefits for being a qualified Year two we made $10,000, which helped solidify some of those goals and set us up for real growth. Year three, $100,000. - Whoa. Quite a leap. - Is it because of the growth - Yeah, and the marketing that branding, marketing, labeling, figuring out how everything was gonna work and figuring out our production models. Year three we're $150,000 and this year, we're and we're already at a quarter mill. - Wow. Good for you. - Incredible. What about the margins? - In the beginning it was about 20% because I didn't have scale. Now that I've reached scale, we're upwards around 40 to 50% margin. - Not bad. - We spent those first two getting the bottling right, Understanding our backend to be able to go out and market That was always the goal. The large grocery stores are where you're gonna make That was the year that I was able to get into the Fresh Market grocery store and be able to begin - What is your advice for to go full-time or not? - You know, if you're not careful, you'll be working two jobs and you'll won't do either one of them as well as you would like. And understand that when you you're gonna struggle that first year because you lost that - Well said. - But on the other side of that, it's amazing how much when you can commit - Master one thing. Yep. - Master one thing, get after it. You've hit your goal, your - Okay, awesome. What do you guys think? Is there ever a quote unquote or is it always a leap of faith? Comment below, we'd love to hear from you. Let's go check out the hives up close. I think you guys are gonna love it. What is your monthly overhead - We run about $7,000 a month. Yeah. That pays for two - Okay, that makes sense. Labor expense. - And then our overall sustainment cost of maintenance and labor. - Gotcha. So this is kind What's this level? - This is where the bees live. These are called the brood chambers. - So this is their home. - Yeah. This is a really good frame. So what we can see here is, - [Paul] Yeah. - [James] Those are capped there's larvae in there that So that means the queen has laid an egg and they're becoming larvae. And then all this around which they will use to - Let's talk about How many different types are there? How do we source them? - There are no native They're all imports. So the ones that are used most commonly here in America are Italians, they're calm, they're gentle, you can see 'em here and - What does it cost to buy a bulk of bees? - It's about $150. Or you can buy what's What I've got here are These are baby packages of bees and what that'll come with with a queen and some honey and some larva and everything ready to go. And you put it in your new hive and that starts the - Gotcha. Alright, well now that let's go and check out and show our audience that you need to operate a So I'll follow you. - Great. (upbeat music) I mean it's a pretty simple setup here, But what does this all cost, Jim? - We're running about $10,000 for the equipment that One of these here, you know, you can pick You know, with one of these, a five gallon bucket and a simple filter, you can begin pulling - Can you give us a flow Unfortunately we can't do it today 'cause we're out of that season. Right. But what does that look like? You put those frames in here. - Yeah, so what happens is we over here with those small honey supers. - Then we'll take each individual one, pull those frames you saw out, come in here and we And then we'll take those frames. We put 'em in the extractor. And then it spins the honey out. - And does it fall at the bottom and then ooze out somewhere, - Falls and runs out over here and goes into this What this is, is a honey sump. - [Paul] What's the purpose? So you're filtering anything - Yeah. You wanna get rid of You want to get rid of that happened to be in there Well, and then there's to the back that hooks that into this thousand And from there we use that tank for long-term storage. - How often are you - Twice a year. We harvest once in the and then again in the fall depending on how the seasons are. - So what do we call this officially, Jim? - Well this is a hive. This is what you need to back. You know, we've got the big we call it their deeps. This is where the bees live. And then these small They're, we use these as honey supers. That's what it's called. This is where the money's You know, each one of these withdrawn, honeycomb in 'em and the bees will fill and the normal honey flow. These are the real heart of the operation. - How much does a box - [James] We're around roughly 50 bucks. - 50 bucks. Okay. With the frames. We buy pallets of these That's what we use the forklift for. Because when you start 1,000 of these at a to get 'em off the truck - Quite heavy. Yeah. 1,000 of those a year. - So if you were to build one hive, Jim, in terms of output, what Do you measure per honey jar? Pounds. So one of these honey supers, will do anywhere from 30 to - Per year or per harvest? - Per year. - Gotcha. per super, you know, a hive in a good year will produce 100 pounds, in a bad year is 60, 65 pounds per hive. So if we're selling at and you do that out, I mean that's what? A thousand bucks a hive. - Wow. - That is a good day. I'm sure any of the entrepreneurs and founders would agree that launching isn't just about the big ideas. It's about having the right to turn those ideas into reality. So if you're looking to give life to a business idea of your own, listen up, because we're about to make so much easier with the help of our friends at Tailor Brands. Tailor Brands is a business builder which gives you the tools and manage your business venture. No more tangled webs of paperwork, legal fees and bureaucratic roadblocks. With Tailor Brands all in one simply follow the guided prompts and check off all the before launching, all From creating an LLC and EIN registration, setting up a business bank account, a suite of financial Getting your business off the Thanks to Tailor Brands. Don't let your big idea gather dust. Click the link below and on all LLC plans and turn your entrepreneurial dreams Alright, rocking, literally Let's do Blitz. Thank you guys for Jim, first one, what's you've learned about bees - Each hive has a personality. You can go from one hive to the next hive and they will be completely different in how they react to you and how they produce - That is cool. Okay. What's the best thing about - The ability to make my own decisions and make my own money versus - Well said. What's the worst thing - Not having any money when - The irony, huh? - And there's always more work to do versus, &quot;Hey, the day is - Good point. When was the - Twice this morning while - (chuckles) So it's almost a daily thing? - Yeah, it's a daily thing. - Is it? - Okay, what's the best piece of advice you received about running - The best piece of advice for is in general to any business, and I keep coming back to If you're not doing a for your business and you're setting yourself up - What's the biggest misconception people have about beekeeping? - That you're gonna make a with not a lot of hives. You gotta hit scale. - If you could collaborate who would it be and why? - Savannah Bee Company. The saying is you can sell or a little honey for a lot, unless you're Savannah Bee Company, and then you get to sell a lot for a lot. And no one can understand - Really? - Last one. What's your In my coffee and oatmeal in the morning. - Nice. If you could go back and what would you do different? - The major, major was I am a sole proprietor. Because I didn't plan on scaling this to be a large business That was a simple way to do it. I should have started from the beginning. If I knew then what I know And now- - Liability. Tax advantages. The ability to do certain It would've made things so much simpler. Now that I'm so far down the and I've gotten a lot of grants, I'm all registered as a sole proprietor and it's extremely and change it over to an LLC or an S corp. - Okay. So the tip is don't whether you're making zero or a 100,000. - Yeah, that would've the smartest thing I could have done - Good advice. What are some of the biggest mistakes you made when you first started out? When it comes to like maybe extrusion? - I would say the biggest and I don't know why is that when I start taking the honey, when I started extracting the honey, I tried to do it in my And I did it during the day 'cause it seemed like a good idea. So I started pulling their honey - [Paul] Uh oh. - Not just one first, And then went and got all their buddies. Within about an hour I was because I was surrounded who were very upset. - I just had to stop. - I just had to walk away and let 'em have what I had already taken - Wow. - So with this trailer, we We start about nine o'clock while the bees are asleep and when they start waking up - Let's go check out the kind and that is where you I'd love to do that and help you out. - Great. (upbeat music) - So welcome to the Secret - [Paul] So this is not a lot of space, but this is really - Yeah, this is the heart This is where we package to go out to customers for sale. This facility is nowhere near adequate for what our requirements are, but we operate debt free - Maybe walk us through the machine first. Like what are we looking at there? The fill master. So all these come in, and then we set 'em out for filling. What we've got here is the most important equipment on the entire farm. This is the tanks and These two tanks hold 25 that's 600 pounds. And they keep the honey so that it'll move for packaging. Otherwise the honey gets like concrete. - Yeah, makes sense. - And then it comes into this All of this here are about pieces of equipment. - Huge, huge expense for us. But one of the first things to that mentor who runs a large facility and told him what I was doing, equipment and I wanna to He said, &quot;Jim, this is what you buy. Number one, you buy this machine.&quot; he packages 2 million pounds a And it's one of the very because that was a lot of money. So I applied for a small farmer grant and yeah, there were that just wanna help - So this is here without - About $2,000 out of pocket - It's 20 grand. Yeah. - Now you said labor intensive before. What were you doing before? - So what we did before that you see right here. This is the bucket. You would fill it with honey. So you had to pour from into a five gallon bucket. - And then you take this little bottle and I'm guessing something - Yeah. And you would open the honey gate. - (laughs) Are you serious? - And let the honey pour and then get it absolutely and then wipe up your mess. - Wow. And how long did that That's must be 60, 80 hours a week. - Yeah, it was about 80 - Wow. - Versus we can do 1,000 now with this machine. - Incredible. So the difference the right equipment makes in the business, right? - Yeah, That is the only is with, you know, these here. These have made us so much money. We took that initial $20,000 investment and that's the year we made a $100,000. And it was just with - Wow. return on investment in the first year, just from that piece of machinery. - Do you need a massive machine like this? - [James] When you take a full of bottles, you to unload it and move it around. - Well let's go check out the other piece of equipment there. And I most importantly wanna talk about how you acquired them. - You know, all of this all these containers, that the truck, this trailer were all acquired as government surplus. There was a law passed in to get government surplus That's been the key. A good example there of how this builds a business fast to doing that. And that's a $40,000 forklift. I had to pay a service charge of $500 for the paperwork to go get it. - That's what it cost you. The F-350, there was a thousand bucks. This trailer here, which we're using for our extraction trailer. You could see NASA right on the I had to drive down to Cape Canaveral to get this thing from the launch area. You know, we picked it up and that gives us a, you climate-controlled trailer that So, you know, as a business and grow quickly, it's the equipment. That's where the expense comes in. Well if you can cut that cost out and get stuff from the - Alright, so we're gonna demo one. - Yeah, so we pre preset this machine to exactly eight ounces 'cause that's what we're filling today. And all we gotta do is click a pedal and then it auto fills up exactly the same amount every single time. Quick, fast and it's precise and clean. - And then I do this right? Then it comes over here, then we cork it. We cork everything. These are cork directly from - Wow. - So we ordered them from there - That's awesome. Since we have these two samples here, what do you sell retail this What do you think? - These little small ones to $14 depending on the store. The large ones will go anywhere from $20 to some stores sell 'em at $40. - Wow. So you have a a - We do. It goes all the way back to you can sell a lot of honey for a little or a little for a lot. What does it cost to And like your costs, remember - Yeah. So, you know, these to around $6 a bottle. And I've got this down - So what role does packaging Right? Especially for a premium product. This package versus something else. You have a pretty Talk to us about kind of your setup here and why it looks the way it does. - So I intentionally targeted selling to upscale customers and upscale markets. And so to do that you have to have a premium well placed Now we use a glass bottle that's corked and then shrink wrapped on top. That's labor intensive And then the glass bottle itself is so much more expensive - And then this design here, who helped you come up with that? And did it evolve over time? Or you kind of just hit Walk us through a little - We took a little over 18 My wife worked with a graphics designer trying it out on the bottles, to see which ones they liked better. We settled on this right here. (upbeat music) - It's great to see that your product is in many local markets, How much percentage of sales is retail versus direct to consumer so far? - [James] You know, about tops, run those things. - How do the margins differ - We'll make about 30% more selling retail versus wholesale. - Well, let's check out this I know my wife would love it. (upbeat music) How important is it to have a stand where people can show and be on their way, - Surprisingly, more than I thought. - Talk us about that. Why, - I just didn't think that people would come But it got to the point where I had more and more people coming to the farm and I had to stop what I - Right. to do what I was doing, it cost me money. - Yep. &quot;All right, let's build this out.&quot; And the response has been - So it's a no brainer. - Yeah. Build it as fast as you can. - Oh, I built this for under $1,000. - Yeah. And it's generating So we're talking two grand a month. - Right. Pays itself within- - Very quickly. Like Jim, if you're looking active business owners out there, you need to check out the UpFlip Academy. It's an incredible resource and scale any business. Check it out for yourself (light music) Thanks for bringing us over here, Jim. Everything honey is here. Are you the only honey product here? - We are. Proud to be partnered with them. They were one of our first - What was your biggest - Yeah, my biggest wholesale That came from when the decided to expand me from - Wow. - Can you give us the into the store to begin with? - Yeah. So persistence. I kind of figured out the and then I went and who then gave me some And then I just kept calling, until one of 'em returned my voicemail. You know, I find that they want to do business They just can't find - That's a good point. - What the Fresh Market did and what Harris Teeter's gonna do for me, is they gave me six stores and they said, &quot;Here's your six stores. You deliver, you invoice, what sells you send us a bill for.&quot; And what they were trying to do there, is one, see if it sold, to see if I was a real business. And then they came back and you're really doing this, - Wow. - [Paul] Why do you think Not only selling here at the gift shop, but the other retailer stores as well? - When we look at some I targeted the produce Honey can be in the grocery section or it can be in the produce section. It can count either way. And I find that in grocery stores, people who go into the produce to spend more money 'cause - That's an interesting fact. - And so our honey is and it's just a natural fit - Yeah, as opposed to in the middle of the store. So you've trained a lot of What kind of qualities do - I'm looking for someone can learn quickly, and then and they'll go out and One of the things we've is this year I hired a as a veteran, disabled veteran. And by using that program, some compensation back from the state to offset their first year salary. - Oh wow. What amount is that? - Yeah, so, and this is in the entire country called the Workforce If you hire an apprentice, you for on-the-job training funds. And they're paying me 75% And then because- - And then because I and I encourage everyone I am then able to take the which is a federal tax credit, tax credit on their salary - Wow. that's like $29,000 I'm - Geez. I mean there's so many programs out there that I just wish it was that it's available to them. - So now I just wanna show people and tell people, hey, They always qualify for Hire a disabled veteran, for the work opportunity tax credit and you can save your of dollars on that first year salary. - Wow. Is that federal or state paid? - Those are federal payments. Did you guys learn something new or simply enjoy the episode? Do us a huge quick because it lets us know and helps us bring more amazing guests. What are some of the you've learned so far from - Failure is absolutely when you're running a small business. If you have identified all the risks that you can possibly think of and then thought about when that failure happens. 'cause it's just going to, If you don't do that, it's gonna and you won't get anything Last winter we had that arctic for about a week and a half here. But that's a real problem for us, because what happened is I lost 14 hives that froze to death. - Oh wow. - And so over winter losses is one of the things that's And so I had that insured and so I just filed an insurance claim and they helped me offset - So what's your general who are, you know, facing some challenges and having a hard time overcoming them? - Sometimes you have to understand that when these things Sometimes that reason is to slow down a little bit more in order to build resiliency into my business plan. Maybe you were pushing in what you could do from a risk management standpoint. So maybe slow down a little bit. In the military we say slow - Thanks to Tailor Brands Make sure to check them out below. Enjoy this episode and Well make sure to check out episode 194 where we do a deep dive that started in a garage. Like and subscribe.