- Hey, friends, it's nighttime. Is it supper time or bedtime, Eddie? I don't know. Anyway, it's getting late, but I can't quit thinking about trying to help my friends out there with recipes for Thanksgiving. So I just got my broccoli You know, this is what we serve at Paula Deen's Family Kitchen and the Lady and Sons. And it's so easy. You know, prep, prep, to make your cooking so easy. So there's one thing if you go down and go to the I have one cup of onions, chopped onions that's been sauteed in a little butter. And to me this is, I do this every time with my squash casseroles, anything like that, that's been cooked in that butter is, it's just much needed to me. So just know to add that, even though you don't All right, so I've got Now if you are a canned soup snob, you can always make your I love my homemade mushroom soup, but you know, for a casserole, this just makes it so easy. So I'm just gonna mix So I have cracker crumbs, cheese, cream of mushroom soup, Now let's talk about the mayonnaise. If you're not a real mayonnaise person, substitute that with sour cream. Or you could do half So that is strictly up to you. And this recipe calls of frozen broccoli that you Well, I really like using fresh broccoli. So that's what I did. I flowered the amount of broccoli that I thought would equal and I drained it real good, and I squeezed the juice out of it with my, what do you call that, Eddie? Is it a pestle or is it just a? - [Eddie] A masher. - A masher, that sounds good to me. That's my kind of language. All right, now I'm gonna add I'm gonna add my mayonnaise, and like I said, you can't go wrong. Sour cream would just make than the mayonnaise, so choose either one. It's not gonna hurt your recipe. It'll still be delicious. Okay, now our cheese, and that was, I'm gonna It calls for a cup of cheese in with your wet sauce, but I'm probably gonna save All right, I didn't get out a Hold on one second. All right, I'm gonna just in case it wants to stick. And this looks like a So we may have enough that we can actually get So I'm gonna get another bowl, and I'm gonna put my broccoli in. I pounded it in there (metal clanging) Okay, I mean, I got the moisture So I'm going to slowly mix this together. Yeah, I think I can get two don't you think? Because I don't want it to be all. - [Eddie] Yeah - Mushy mush. I think this is perfect. So I'll cook out, I'll of broccoli, and I'll make So these are judgment calls All right. So in this goes, You know, formulating a cookbook hardest part of writing cookbooks because I'm not exactly a recipe follower. So you know, I do it by looks, touch, feel, taste, and sometimes you just have All right, so I'm gonna We do want it nice and cheesy. And now I'm gonna take with my masher, and I A lot of recipes will tell with the crushed crackers and drizzle it evenly That's impossible. That's impossible. So this is how I make sure that all my crackers are buttered. So I crush them, melt me a little butter, and toss those crumbs all in there. And that was probably for that many crackers. So there we go. It's so much easier doing it that way. And this will be ready And don't you think our broccoli casserole is really one of the favorites - [Eddie] Oh yeah, definitely. Okie-doke, so there we go. Perfect. So I've got the oven preheated, Look at that broccoli casserole. It looks delicious. Now I may have wished and added all of the wet but I don't know, we'll just have to see, depending on how wet you like yours. And that looks very, very good. Can you see in there, Eddie? But if you want more cream in yours, then I would say absolutely add all of your wet ingredients to it. Look at me. Looks good. I do think that the broccoli casserole at Paula Deen's Family Kitchen and the Lady and Son's, I has more of your wet ingredients in it, don't you think, Eddie? - [Eddie] Yeah, and I, you know, and I think they may use a - It's so good. It is so good, and for my broccoli, I strictly cut just the floret part off. I didn't use any stalk or anything. That's very good, y'all. Put all the creamy stuff in it. Let's have a party. Still delicious. I think you're definitely on the Thanksgiving table. But in the next video I have I am sharing a recipe with that has been around a hundred times. And I think all of you your mama making this and putting it on your Thanksgiving table. So we'll see you in the next video. Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.