- Well, I wanna talk who might have lost a little In fact, I'm guessing of this covid season, that in one point in your life, you found yourself really, You could sense His voice leading you. You could feel His presence with you. When you would read His Word, it was like God was speaking somehow, along the way, of your spiritual passion. You lost some enthusiasm. Maybe you lost a little bit of spiritual intimacy If you find yourself a about the things of God this is a message for you. And I wanna tell you, I also I'll give you a little piece of my story. Like some of you, I was Did any of you have a Yeah, I see there're hands. You could say, I was That's kinda what I was doing. And along the way, my and I started searching, and seeking, and through a little Bible and indescribably transformed I went from wild, party guy, to bold evangelistic Jesus guy, overnight. Completely changed. I wanted everybody to know, and so, high on spiritual enthusiasm, I just put Jesus all I wore Jesus hats, I had cheesy I was a college tennis player, and so I painted a cross on So you could see my faith. I even had, believe it or Yes, some of you didn't know that a Jesus watch actually existed. I couldn't find the exact one online, but I found one that's pretty close to it. This is the Jesus watch. Not exactly, but it's pretty close. Now I know some of you, you don't know whether you should clap, whether you should laugh, or whether you should and I understand, I'm But I just wanted everybody who changed my life. I was a business major, when but then I just immediately I never thought to change my major. So I graduated with a business degree, and I wanted to be a pastor, and nobody was hiring business majors. So I just got plugged in my church. Served anywhere, and everywhere. Any time something was My pastor heard about me, and invited me to do the most amazing, most special thing you could ever imagine. You see, on Sunday mornings at First United Methodist there were three distinct slots that the pastors on the platform would do. One, was to recite and lead the church in the Apostle's Creed. A slight step up from that, And the grand master of them My pastor invited me, not but sure enough to play To help lead the church My dreams had come true. I could do something pastoral. My parents drove two hours I was engaged to Amy, her parents came. My fraternity brothers I was doing something I believe in God the Father, and I did it with passion and with style. My pastor ended up Three years later, and passion for my God, had waned. I was married to Amy, and and she said, &quot;What are you doing today?&quot; And I said, &quot;Ahhh, all I'm And she laughed, and she said, &quot;Do you realize, that you're complaining &quot;about the very same thing And I don't know how it happened, but somewhere along the way, I lost some spiritual enthusiasm. If you've lost some of your passion for the One who saved you, I call it, &quot;Get Your Passion Back&quot;, and I'd love to pray today. Father we ask, that for on YouTube, Church Online, even listening to a message post date. And God, for everyone gathered we ask that your word, by would help us get our passion back. For the One who gave it all for us. We pray this in Jesus name. And everybody said... - [Congregation] Amen. Amen, and amen. Go ahead and type that in if you're with us today, We're in a message series It's a great time to When there's so much as followers of Christ, Today I wanna talk to you Have you noticed that there of people in the world. Two different types. The first, there are those, who let circumstances And the second, there are to influence their circumstances. There's two types of Those who let what's going on around them determine their mood, their posture, their perspective. Or those who let what's influence the climate around them. The theme enthusiasm is one of I wanna talk to you about it today. It comes from two words. Enthusiasm comes from en theos. En means in, if you've theos means God. The word enthusiasm, it or it means to be filled with God. True spiritual enthusiasm, it's not a product of your environment, it's a posture of your heart, It's born in the presence In fact, I love what in 1 Corinthians 15:57 Paul said, &quot;But thank God!&quot; Somebody say thank God. - [Congregation] Thank God! - Type it in the chat, he said, &quot;But thank God that He gives I'm gonna say that again, because I kinda feel there're some people, a little more enthusiastic, that haven't yet expressed He said, &quot;But thank God, He &quot;and death, through (congregation yelling) Because of what our God &quot;My dear brother's and sisters, &quot;Always work,&quot; and I love &quot;always work enthusiastically &quot;for you know that nothing you do &quot;for the Lord is ever useless.&quot; Work enthusiastically for the Lord, and whatever you do, is Here's what I love about this thought. It's not what you do it's who you do it for. It's not the thing that but it's the intent of the It's not what you do but it's who you do it for. For example, many of you around your house, before you go to bed. If you don't do that, helpful little tip, you can save money by around your house before I never really liked doing she loves when I do it. So when I turn the lights I do it with enthusiasm, Flip, switch, slide, I and it's not what I'm but who I'm doing it for. And when I walk back into &quot;Guess what your husband &quot;I've bravely been attacking the elements, &quot;and turning off the lights, &quot;The lights are out.&quot; Do you feel the enthusiasm in the room? It's not what you do, but When you're doing whatever for the Lord, it can into something meaningful. The best example of this, if I could show you a clip of this lady. But I saw the most amazing that perhaps I've seen in my life, working at a kiosk in an airport. Now, on the top of my you would not find working She's selling cigarettes, drinks, and gum and such. This lady, when people would and not just singing, but angelic singing, like an angel took over her body, and she was singing at people walking by. And there was a buzz, they weren't even laughing, And I walked by and she sang at me. And I can't sing like her, but she sang something like, Hey young man there in the black shirt And in a very appropriate way she told me, You looking good today And I like, black shirt, And everybody walked by, say Have a wonderful day She was just amazing. And so, I just stood there &quot;Can I hire her, can I interview her?&quot; And the place was electrically she didn't let the boring dictate her mood, but she let what was in her dictate the environment around her. And so, I just had to ask her, I said, &quot;Can I ask you a question?&quot; and she said, Ask me anything &quot;No, no, no, just, can you She said, I'm not sure. And I said, &quot;Tell me And she said, Oh, people are so bored, I wanna bring joy into their lives I said, &quot;No, no, no, I &quot;but give me the deeper why.&quot; And she said, &quot;You wanna know why?&quot; I said, &quot;I wanna know why.&quot; She said, &quot;You wanna know why?&quot; I said, &quot;Tell me why!&quot; She said, &quot;I think you know why.&quot; I said, &quot;I think I know why too, &quot;but I wanna hear you say it, why?&quot; She said, &quot;Well, He has a name.&quot; And together we just sang it, His name is Jesus. And then we hugged right total strangers. (congregation applauding) Who does that? Someone who's been transformed, The thanks be to God, who Whatever you do, do it And whatever you do will En theos. In God. You can have spiritual enthusiasm. And you can loose it. - [Woman] Oh, so true. - I wanna show you a person If you've been around the David was a shepherd he was a kid who became a king. As a king, he was filled with en theos. As a king, somewhere If you know the story The Philistine army was at and they would often pick to do battle, and declare the And the Philistines had this Israelites had nobody, that And this little kid, little shepherd boy, who was bringing snacks to his brother, looked on with enthusiasm. And I want you to watch and confidence in God, when to the Philistine, &quot;You come against me with &quot;but I come against you in &quot;the God of the armies of &quot;This day the Lord will and I will strike down &quot;This very day I will give the carcasses &quot;of the Philistine army to the &quot;and the whole world will know, En theos. This is not, there's no this is raw, unparalleled out of time with God. The question is, where did he get that? Where did his spiritual when there was a whole who didn't have what he had. Where did he get that, ongoing, inner dwelling, spiritual enthusiasm? Where do you get it if you're or a kid walking into Three thoughts about where First of all, he trusted God, daily. He walked with God, daily. And he worshiped God, daily. And the key word is... - [Congregation] Daily. Daily. He trusted God, daily. He walked with God, daily. He worshiped God, daily. He trusted Him. How could he fight a giant? Because in previous days, he trusted God when he was taking care of the sheep, and a bear would attack. And God gave him the And since he trusted God the he could trust God in this He trusted Him daily. He enjoyed His presence, He was the one who said this, &quot;I shall not want.&quot; I lack nothing at all. &quot;He makes me lie down in green pastures. &quot;He restores my soul. &quot;He leads me, He guides &quot;He's always with me. &quot;He guides me along the right &quot;Even though I walk through &quot;of death, I will fear no &quot;Your rod, and your &quot;You prepare a table before me. &quot;In the presence of my enemies, &quot;will follow me, all the days of my life.&quot; He trusted God daily, he he worshiped God daily. When the Ark of the Covenant where the presence of not fully, completely dressed. And went into a massive worship party, so much so that his wife was embarrassed and made fun of him. But he just couldn't contain himself. It wasn't a click on a computer screen, once a week to watch a sermon. It wasn't even a drive across town to sit in a church service, and sing some songs, and listen once a week. It was a daily, abiding, that gave him this enthusiasm. He was in God. There're two seasons in his life. One, he had it, and when he lost it. If you fast forward to a there was another famous it says, &quot;In a time when In springtime when he David actually stayed at home. And when he wasn't where he climbed up onto a roof, and he saw something he a woman taking a shower. And when he wasn't where wasn't doing what he was supposed to do, he saw something he he did something he and it cost a lot of people something they And it all started when with God daily. I wanna show you the contrast, and I've put into bullet I wanna show you the difference. As a kid, with enthusiasm, David ran into the The later as a king, with apathy, David walked on the roof How did a man, who had so as a kid, lose it as a king? The answer is, he took and he put it on his comfort. My question to you today is this, which one best represents you? Which one best represents you? Are you full of en theos? Enthusiasm, for the things it's not meaningless, because it's all about the who. Or do you find yourself more More complacent. Which one best represents you? Are you charging into spiritual battle? Knowing that the Lord He'll never leave you, you've got a divine calling daily, every day. Or have you drifted into My observation, is that most people in my opinion, have likely fallen into during the covid season. There's one very positive extreme of those who are continuing and trust God daily, and and feed on His Word daily. And they're growing in intimacy, and they're directed by His presence, and there is a very real, very powerful, very present en theos. The enthusiasm of the Lord, Tragically though, there And just based on human nature, is we don't drift toward discipline, we don't drift toward health, we don't drift toward good decisions, we drift toward complacency, we drift toward self-centered attitudes. And unfortunately when people are now, sometimes disengaged from of worship in the corporate They may start out at Church but then wane and the weather gets nicer, and people start going outside, and suddenly bad habits set in, and the good disciplines go away, and rather than being filled they're filled with fear. And doubt, and a loss of joy, And what am I supposed to do? And what once was a vibrant has been replaced by comfort. Which best represents you? En theos, calling, purpose, passion, spiritual enthusiasm, or David had it, and then he lost it. Nathan the prophet, confronted and after the confrontation, how he had fallen away. He cried out to God in the and he said, God, &quot;Create &quot;and renew a steadfast spirit within me.&quot; God, &quot;Restore to me the &quot;and grant me a willing Restore to me, what do you do You refill, you rejoice, you go back to doing what you did before. Just like Jesus told the in Revelation, 2:4 and 5, He said, here's your problem essentially this is what I hold against you, He said, &quot;You are forsaken the You've walked away, you've &quot;You have forsaken the in other words, you didn't &quot;You've forsaken the And then Jesus said, &quot;Consider For just a moment, you might do that. Consider how you've drifted, consider the intimacy you once had. That you walked away from. Consider the power of His presence that never left you. Consider how far you've fallen. And then Jesus said, change directions, and do the things you did at first. Do them again. What do you do? You walk with His presence, daily. You trust His goodness daily. You worship Him, daily. Not out of duty, but out of delight. The thanks be to God, who Restore to me the joy of my salvation. There are two types of people. There are those who let their panic, anxiety, influence their own spiritual temperature. And there are those that born out of the very real presence of God, influence their environment, dictate the mood of those around them, build the faith of There's two types of that walk with God, and grow And He empowers them with And there are those, but they leave it. Which type are you? If you feel like, you've lost it. I understand. Sometimes people ask me, &quot;How do you keep your And my answer is, &quot;I don't.&quot; Like it's not like natural, ahh, and you never have a bad I feel like I'm under attack even more. My faith gets under attack. My mindset gets under attack. I mean, even my mood gets &quot;Amen.&quot; In a very feminine voice. So what do I do? I go back to that moment in college, and I think about where I was, and I think about what He did. But thanks be to God, who through Jesus Christ, our Lord. And then, I just go back I spend time with Him. I let His Word strengthen my soul. Correct my sin, and encourage and build my faith, And I worship Him. Not for just what I And then whatever I do, even I try to work at it Not doing it for just some And that transforms something mundane, into something meaningful. So whether you're doing or the pastoral prayer. Whether you're serving, or worshiping and everybody knows it. Do it for God, but more Because there's two types Those who let all the determine what happens on their insides. Or those who let the work impact the world around them. I don't know about you, is so bright there's no (congregation applauding) I hope that we have a ready to let the presence of So Father, today I thank you to gather in a physical building. That the joy of the Lord And God, for every at Church Online, YouTube, may you infuse their home to build their faith. As you're praying, wherever those who say, yeah, maybe of the enthusiasm, I've of my passion and my faith, If that's you today, wherever you are, will you just lift up You can type it in the chit-chat, I want my passion back, And God, I ask right now, in living rooms, and kitchens, all over the world. That your presence would stir in us, God. Help us to do what we did at first. Not out of duty God, but out of the light. Thank you God, for setting Because of who you are May we work enthusiastically to serve you, in all that we do. As you keep praying today, of you that you recognize, you know, wow, I kinda wish I had spiritual and maybe I've like tried I tried to get excited about God, or maybe you don't even believe in God, but there something drawing you right now, and no matter where you are, if you say, I don't have that, but I want it. Where does it come from? Let me tell you where It does not come from you, make it, earn it. It comes from the grace of God. When you recognize and understand. You ever have that feeling, like you've done something wrong, you know why you have that? Because you've done Scripture calls it sin, and that we've all sinned, against a Holy God. That's why you feel that That's not an accident, it's of God's standard. And this is what's amazing news. You can never get back to His it's impossible, you can never or perfect enough. And this is why the Our God loves you so much, in the person of His son Jesus. Jesus the son of God, who never sinned. Died on a cross in our God raised Him from the and this includes you, it doesn't matter what part of the world you're in. It doesn't matter what you did last night, doesn't matter what you're doesn't matter how guilty you feel, doesn't matter how far from God you feel, or how far away God seems. Anyone who calls on the name that name of Jesus, Jesus, when you call on Him, and forgives your sins, On the other side of phones, or in a physical building, those you say, &quot;I want that, I want His He will infuse you with His completely forgiven, as You're not a better The old is gone, the new is common. All of our churches, those who On the other side of today I give you my life, Lift your hands high, now, I'm giving my life to Jesus, As we have hands going Could we have somebody here for people saying, &quot;Yes, Jesus, I need you, (congregation applauding) Wherever you are, at home, from work, or in a church building, would you just pray this Heavenly Father, - [Congregation] Heavenly Father, - Forgive me, - [Congregation] Forgive me - for all of my sins. - [Congregation] for all of my sins. - Jesus save me. - [Congregation] Jesus save me. - Change me, - [Congregation] Change me, - and make me new. - [Congregation] and make me new. - Fill me with your spirit. - [Congregation] Fill me with your spirit. - So I can walk with you. - [Congregation] So I can walk with you. - And trust you. - [Congregation] And trust you. - And worship you. - [Congregation] And worship you. - Daily. - [Congregation] Daily. - My life is not my own. - [Congregation] My life is not my own. - I give it all to you. - [Congregation] I give it all to you. - Help me God, - [Congregation] Help me God, - to do whatever I do, - [Congregation] to do whatever I do, - Enthusiastically for you. - [Congregation] Enthusiastically for you. - Because you saved me, - [Congregation] Because you saved me, - and my life belongs to you. - [Congregation] and - In Jesus name I pray. - [Congregation] In Jesus name I pray. - Could somebody to our good God today? (congregation clapping)