Brothers, we are little Japanese devils, shoot quickly, shoot quickly. Hong San sends a message to the people in the West Courtyard to evacuate. Brothers, fight with the little Japanese devils, little Japanese bastard, you old thing. Come with me, brothers. It seems something has happened. It seems to be a count. Are you back? He's not back. We don't know what happened to Yashu . Shuangying is not back yet. He's out. Yes, brothers, brothers , brothers, evacuate quickly. What's the Japanese agent No. 76? What's coming ? Everyone, hurry up. It's too late, everyone, evacuate immediately , evacuate , call me, call me, get in the car, get in the car , get up, catch me, get up, tell me where the stolen gold is, hum , I'll ask again, where is the stolen gold, the treasure map? Where is the Seal of the King of Loyalty? What are you laughing at? Where is the gold? I know the treasure map and the Seal of the King of Loyalty. I also know. Tell me, tell me and you can live. Do n't even think about it . If you want to get what you want from my mouth, don't even think about humming. Hit me . Hit me hard. If you don't tell me , I won't believe that you can't pry open his mouth. Grandma's Yan Shuangying is really a bastard. Five or six of the evil sticks were broken, and two or three of the old iron were fused. He just refused to speak. I have never seen such a person. If the gold hadn't been found yet, I really wanted to kill him with one shot. Yan Shuangying is like steel forging iron. The person who cast it has to give me an extra sentence tonight and use all the instruments of torture. I just want to make a break. How can I put it ? In the past few days, I have re-examined the relationship between you and me. I think maybe there was something wrong with the way I handled it before. It's blunt and a bit childish. What Miss Zhang means is that most of China is now occupied. I'm afraid this situation will last for a long time. Miss , why? Therefore, marrying a Japanese husband may not be a bad idea. If I heard you correctly, you want to reconsider. Is the relationship between me real? Shijun, why don't you write it? I'm sorry, my writing is too bad. You know my relationship with Yan Shuangying. In fact, it's nothing. They just have a good impression of each other. Yes, yes. I am a very emotional person. If I want to start over, I have to end my past relationships. Otherwise, I will feel uneasy. This is the only reason why I want to see Yan Shuangying. And I can also help you persuade him to tell you what you want to know. Why is everything a little uneasy? To be precise, nervous. Are you okay? Wang Hanhao, why are you here ? I'm here to see you. Xiao Jin, please tell me something useful. You don't have much time . Do you know that if you don't cooperate with them, you will die? This is it. What do you want to say to me? Think carefully . Why are you so stubborn? What's the use of the remaining gold and heavenly treasures after you die ? I talked to them. As long as you tell the whereabouts of the gold and treasures, you can live. Do you understand? At present, the Japanese have occupied most of China's territory. The Chongqing government cannot save China, so cooperation with the Japanese is a good way out. Now do you understand ? If there is anything you don't understand, I can explain it to you. Boyu, I understand everything . Just like I am saving your life, please be sure to think about it. I will do it. From today on, there will be no relationship between you and me. I'm leaving. Hello, I am the world king. Let's go. Miss, please go out first. I'll be here soon. Okay. Go back. This kiss just ended. The past also started. Now I hope you can keep your promise and reconsider the relationship between you and me. Can you? I will be fine. Go back. Mr. Yan, I heard that you want to meet with me about the candidates for the Imperial Army and Heavenly Treasures. The same thing you said, either you will be robbed of gold or you will get the treasure of heaven. You choose. Mr. Yan, you got the wrong position. It is you who have to choose , not us . You have no right to bargain. Hey, wait a minute, you can go out. It's just the three of us here to talk. Let's talk about your conditions. If you want gold, the treasure of heaven will be mine. If you want treasure , gold will be mine. Can you explain it in more detail ? No matter what you want, the premise must be to ensure my personal safety. This is not a problem. Do you think I am? I will be stupid enough to believe your promise. What does it mean? I will not tell you the location of the treasure. Whether you are looking for the treasure or getting the gold, I will personally lead you there to retrieve the gold and the treasure. I will tell you what to do next. Are we going to be led by your Yan Shuangying? This is the condition I made. It's up to you whether I agree or not. How long can this face of yours last ? Can you still afford to wait? What do you say, what's in your heart? I know best, Mr. Hideyoshi Hong Kong, I know you came here for the treasure of heaven and you are not really working for the Empire of Japan, right? How do you know this? You don't need to know. You just need to know that I know more than you know. That's enough, okay . Just as you said, I choose Heavenly Treasure. This is Longhu Mountain. Yes, I'm back after more than 20 years . I hope I can succeed immediately this time. Yan Shuangying's life is in our hands. I don't think he has it yet. As for daring to play tricks, how far is the war ? I can only walk up the mountain. I have been waiting for 3 days and there is no movement. Could it be that they haven't come? It shouldn't happen. The Japanese are eager for the treasure of heaven and will never give up such a great opportunity. Yeah, what Yue Xin said makes sense. As the saying goes, Kansai is in chaos . Everyone, please stay calm and wait patiently. Well, how are you doing? Is there any movement? Sister, is the information wrong? The information has been confirmed by the face. It should be accurate. Everyone, wait patiently. They will definitely come. Someone said that everyone is ready to come. Finally Wait, get ready. My name, you and me. Uncle Jiang Ya, are you ready ? Get ready for the prison. Throw your dignity in quickly. Don't reach out and shoot. Sister Su of the Shaoying Organization. Thank you. Thank you, You Ji, for saving comrades. It's okay. It's okay for you to suffer . Now the Japanese are being beaten. If we don't regain our composure, we may not be able to escape. Let comrades retreat quickly . The purpose of retreat has been achieved. Don't start a fight. Retreat. Special Envoy , what is going on? Special Envoy, it seems that the guerrillas of the Communist Party cannot have heavy machine guns. There must be a Falcon Assassination Team. Falcon Assassination Team . How did they know that we were in Longhu Mountain and ambush here in advance ? It was your good daughter Zhang Yuexin who set a trap to lure us into the trap . What does this have to do with the monthly salary? Special envoy. How could it be Miss Zhang ? Baga still doesn't understand? Zhang Yuexin secretly informed Yan Shuang in the gendarmerie. Yan sent us to Longhu Mountain again , and he led the Communist guerrillas and hunter assassination team to set up an ambush here to rescue Yan Shuang. Ying Ke Devoured Your Excellency , did you use the water in the cup to draw a picture on the table and pass the news to Ye Shaoying? You were deceived by him, this bad woman. I want to kill him with my own hands. Sir, Sir, it was not caused by you and his traditional instruments. Come on, Sir, this is really an injustice. I have been with Miss Yingzhi these days. He knows best what I am doing. Sir, you have wronged me . Xiaotian, he has not seen Zhang Yixing in the past few days . What should I do now, Sir ? You should know each other when you go to the hall. Yes, it is right at Longhu Peak, which is more than 30 miles away from here. Hurry there immediately. Everyone, follow me. Let 's go. Come on, why are Shuangying and the others not here yet? Will they get rid of Japan again? The people are being tracked by Sister Zhu and the guerrillas. Nothing will happen to them . Why are you crying? I'm not very good. Yunyao, don't cry. They're all just skin wounds. No matter how hard the Japanese sticks are, they can't beat me to death. They can't kill me. Feed me. Don't tell me that you're sick again, Comrade Shang Ying, you've suffered a lot. Ge Ge, an undercover intelligence agent inside the enemy, witnessed with his own eyes the inhuman beating you received. It was simply too horrible to watch. He also sincerely admires your spirit of preferring death to surrender. He asked me to convey my gratitude to you. My respect to Pigeon Sister Zhu, thank you for your all-out rescue efforts. Otherwise , I wouldn't have known what to say. The fact that the Kuomintang harmed me and the Communist Party saved me has made me see everything clearly. I won't say anything else. From today on, I, Yan Shuangying, will follow me wholeheartedly. The Communist Party asked the organization to test me, Comrade Shuangying , and Pigeon and I reported to the organization on your outstanding performance in prison. Before then, the party organization decided to approve you to join the party. However, you have to submit a supplementary application for party membership. Thank you, thank you for the trust of the organization. Well, then I It's been more than a year since I submitted my application for joining the party. It's really great that you were approved to join the party at the same time as Comrade Yan Shuangying. Sister, that's great. I'm also a member of the Communist Party. Look, I'll make you happy. Haha, follow the instructions on the drawing . There is a mechanism on the first pillar on the right side of the Yitang. My love my love. Don't move. Don't underestimate this small rooftop. There are various landscapes on it. What is this? This is called a replica . If you fall, you will die. Follow me. This one is safe . The one in front is also safe. Step over and cross over. 123 These three blocks are all traps. These two blocks should be safe. Come with me. This must be the gateway to the underground treasure house. Be careful . Look at what is shown on the drawing. After entering the secret door, there is this chess endgame. What does this mean? The situation here has nothing to do with it. Could it be that the person who made the drawing made a mistake ? There must be a mystery in this. Let 's go there. Take a look at it, Yunyao, look at this, you are spinning yourself. Dark Horse. The chess game on the treasure map. This is the endgame on the treasure map. Come out quickly. There is a mechanism inside. Get down . Why is the white smoke coming out of the black horse's nose? The explosion is not white smoke , but white powdery white clouds or yellow explosives. White phosphorus has a very low ignition point and will spontaneously ignite and detonate when heated. An explosion occurs in the powder magazine. Prepare for an explosion. Everyone, hide quickly. What is going on? This is what is on the treasure map. I finally understood the endgame of chess. Only by cracking the endgame can we move on to the next step. It turns out that the traps here are very sharp. Anyone who breaks into the chess game without breaking the chess game will be immediately killed. The dark horse just now is a trap with a hand as sharp as a knife. Everyone, lie down on the ground and don't move. It looks like the mechanism will not stop after killing us all. Master, please think of a way . Give me the drawing. The endgame in the picture is black's two rooks, one horse , and all red's double. The rook is driving alone with one shot. The red side must fall continuously , otherwise the red side will definitely lose. Ma Tu taught Yin Xiaojiang and Zheng Yashu is holding the rook tighter. Tian Zihu, God Master, is in front of everyone. Everyone can clearly see that it is a chessboard. The deep groove on the ground is on the chessboard. The longitude and latitude horizontal lines are from 1 to 9 from left to right, and the vertical lines are from 1 to 10 from front to back. The iron wrench next to each chess piece is to control the direction of the chess pieces. Pushing horizontally is to push forward horizontally, to advance, and everyone plays red chess. Did you hear everything clearly? Listen clearly. Listen clearly. Everyone, listen to my command. Go to the red car on the left and hold the iron wrench next to it. It's Zheng Yashu. Go to the red car on the right. Paopao is a taxi. The red car on the rear right is next to Li Xiaojiang. Red car 3 enters 2. It's General Zheng Ya Shu Pao Seven Seven Three General Zheng Ya Shu Pao Seven Retreat One Li Xiaojiang Retreat Three Level Five General Ya Shu Come out Why don't you hide from me Come out quickly Everyone sit down Uncle Ya hide in Yours Leave me alone Tiger Pao General Qi Jingye 's voice It doesn't matter to you You're injured . It doesn't matter. I'm fine . Look, look . Yunyao brings the Seal of Loyalty and the Seal of Eternal King . The treasure is with the Kingdom of Heaven . Through the Marshall Gate, we embark on the sacred road. Another riddle. I thought this was the last one. Who knew it was another riddle? People who buy treasures don't know how to do anything else. They just make riddles left and right. Don't be discouraged. Anyway, we are getting closer and closer to the truth. There are overlapping treasures. Revealing one's true form , being loyal and brave to enemies, revealing one's treasure. What does this mean ? There is a layer inside, a few pieces of rice paper, and a box of ink pads. What do these things have to do with the treasure? Oh my, this thing is getting more and more bizarre. The riddle engraved on the lid has something to do with my master's deathbed. It 's exactly the same as what he said. The treasure and the kingdom of heaven are together. I walked on the sacred road through Marshall 's door. What you, you, do you remember? I am with Tian Guo. I walked on the sacred road through Marshall's door. I went to the Qinglong Ridge to find the holy stele. In the holy tablet, he mentioned this riddle and also mentioned the Holy Grail. What is the Holy Grail? I have never heard of it, Lao Mu. Have you heard of it? No, eventually there will be overlapping treasures . Eventually there will be overlapping treasures . Give me the Zhuwang Seal and the Yongwang Seal. What's the use of these two seals stacked together ? Yurou is still the same as before. Give me those glasses. Oh, what did you see? I saw a church on the street. The church is really It's really a church. It's a church. But what does that mean? Look, this is the Marshall Road Church. The Marshall Road Church is the current Kainalu Library. A few decades ago, Kainaru was not called Kainaru. It's called Marshall Road Kainalu Picture. The library's predecessor was a church. Back then, my father, John Mu, was left in this church by King Yong to pretend to be a priest and wait for the successor of King Zhong to arrive. You can be sure that the picture on this picture is from Kainalu Library. I am absolutely sure that I have lived here for most of my life, and I also went to the Marshall Church when I converted the church into a library. Old Mu said this, it really looks like a double eagle. I understand what the riddle is. Tell me about the riddle. It is said that the treasure is with the kingdom of heaven. This so-called heaven does not refer to the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom. It refers to the kingdom of heaven where God lives in the Bible, which also refers to the church. If we explain the treasure and the kingdom of heaven in this way, it means that the treasure is hidden in the church. Then step through the Marshall Gate. Going to the Holy Road means that behind a certain door of the Marshall Church , which is now the Kainar Road Library, is the road to the treasure. It is perfect and flawless. Oh, you mean that the treasure is hidden in the Kainar Road Library. Yes. This is the real key to unlocking the treasure house. What do these two patterns mean? Why do these two patterns look so familiar to me ? The Holy Grail. This is what my master calls the Holy Grail. The Holy Grail refers to the jade pendant around my neck. This jade pendant is you. Who knew that the piece your father put around your neck when you were just born was the key to unlocking the treasure of heaven . The other piece was put on Yunyao's sister Xiaoyu. It's a pity that Xiaoyu died together with the prince and princess 20 years ago in Qinglongji . I have a jade pendant , Yue Xin, what are you talking about ? I have a jade pendant that is exactly the same as mine. I am rarely surprised , but this is a good exception . This is the other jade pendant that is worn on Xiaoyu. You , you , she is Zhang Xiaotian's daughter. What, you? She is Zhang Xiaotian's daughter . Yes, where did you get this jade pendant? He has worn it around my neck since I was a child. There is a red birthmark on your collarbone, right? How do you know ? If this is true, it means you are not Zhang Xiaotian. My daughter is Yunyao's biological sister, Xiaoyu. Xiaoyu, you are really Xiaoyu. I finally understand why my father never mentioned mother to me. It turns out that I am not his biological daughter. Of course you are not his biological daughter. Zhang Xiaotian, this beast with a human face and an animal heart, was killed by his own hands.Liao Ni Men De Fu Mu in you Ta Jiu Shi Ni De Qin Mei Mei Xiao Yu Jie Jie Mei Mei Jie Jie Jie Jie Jie Jie Jie Jie Hao A Xun Bao Cang Ju Ran Xun Chu Liao Yi Dui Shi San Duo Nian De Qin Jie Mei Zhe Ke Zhen Shi You Xin Chong Hua Hua Bu Kai Wu Xin Cha Liu Liu Cheng Yin A Xian Zai Yi Qie Du It's clear that the treasure is hidden in the Kainaru Library. Well, we will return to Shanghai immediately. Fortunately, it 's the bell tower. I've been here many times. Only here, the space is very small. Only one person can go in. I go in and the others are guarding outside. Good intentions . Men, Yueyang, Yuexi, don't move, don't move, don't move , how about Yanjun, you fell into my hands again, you must feel very strange. How did I know that you were coming to Kainarluo Library? Because there is a traitor among us, he will us The action report I gave you is absolutely correct. Can you tell me who the rapist is, as a dying person ? Me , your mother, you, you betrayed us, yes, Yunyao, don't blame mother, I had no choice , sister, I once doubted Mr. Mu, Captain Wu, and He Zhong , but I never doubted your aunt, thank you for your trust in me , it's a pity that you My trust was wrongly given to the enemy, and this is why the current situation has arisen. Mom, why on earth is it to get these heavenly treasures that I go through all the troubles to raise you? Otherwise , maybe I would have thrown you into a ravine more than 20 years ago . Wolf, let's talk about it. Back then, Yu Xiuqing and I formed a secret alliance in order to obtain the Heavenly Treasure. I used my advantageous position to find out the secrets about the Heavenly Treasure for him. He promised to give me a share of the treasure when it was done. Finally, one day I got it. I found out the exact news that the treasure was buried under the Juyi Hall. The key to unlocking the treasure , the Seal of the Brave King, was in the hands of your father Hong Yingchun. So I told the news to Yu Xiuqing. He left Qinglongji overnight and joined Sun Dianying's army. Months later, he led Sun Dianying's troops to break through Qinglongji and killed the first guard of the Heavenly King Guards and your parents. However, we searched around Qinglongji and Juyi Hall, but we couldn't even find the trace of the treasure. Sister Yuxia was right at that time. I said that he had heard from Mr. and Mrs. Yong that the old King Yong had left a man named Mu John in Shanghai . This man might have some clues about the treasure. So after some discussion, we decided to let Sister Yuxia come with the princess. In Shanghai, they went to find Mr. Mu. Sure enough, Mr. Mu believed in them and tried his best to help them . However, he was tight-lipped about the treasure and did not reveal any clues . Sister Yuxia asked many questions and only found out that there was a secret room under the Kainalu Library and that Mr. Mu was waiting for Prince Zhong. Only when the descendant of the treasure arrived did I know that the guardians of the treasure turned out to be the two lineages of King Yong and King Zhong. At this time, I finally understood that I couldn't be too hasty , so I asked Sister Yuxia to lurk and wait patiently for the successor of King Zhong to arrive. Unexpectedly, this wait would last more than 20 years. Zhang Xiaotian and I rarely met. Finally, the appearance of Yan Shuangying broke the 20-year peace. Yan Yunyao found the riddle of the underground secret room, which made us feel that the opportunity had come. That night, Yu Xiuqing came to the house. You were waiting for me outside. I have a few words to say. What did Mrs. Yan say that you are here ? Wait a minute. If we see Li Yunyao rescuing people , now the opportunity has come. I will use Yan Yunyao to lure Mr. Mu, Wu Yongzhong and the King of Heavenly Guards to come and capture the Japanese and the leader of No. 76. Its elimination finally used the relationship between Yan Yueyao and Yan Shuangying to dig out the treasure . This is what the poem sounds like. As for what happened next, you all know. All the treasures fell into our hands. Mom, believe me, you won't have a good ending , right? Dad and sister's words are exactly what I want to tell you. At least you can't see what kind of fate we will have. You don't hesitate to carry it for money. Lord, I beseech you for the glory of surrendering to the enemy and betraying the country. How can people like you change? They will not change. They can only die. Shouldn't I be the one to say this? You are too happy too early. When people think they are in heaven, they are already in heaven. Hell, there are dozens of guns pointing at you. I really admire you for how you can still say something like this. Okay, don't waste any more time. Take us to find those treasures immediately . Otherwise, I will kill Yan Yuyao and Zhang Yuexian . Don't agree. Let them shoot. How about shooting these robbers and scoundrels if they have the guts? You have to think carefully and don't make too big a deal. I have a condition . If they want to come with me, of course they can leave . Swallow Your Excellency, let them go. You people in front are walking in front, hurry up , get up, get up, get up, get down , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, this is the elevator, hurry up, stop and shoot, you jump first, no, you jump first, hurry up , hurry up, hurry up, save me, Xiaoji, you have to save me. Save me Xiao Ji, jump out quickly, ah , one, two, go , go, go , go, go, go, jump , jump , wake up , where is Wang Jue? He fell, get out of here , go, go quickly , your Excellency , ah, I can't believe that the special envoy fell short. Your Excellency, you have left a green hill. Don't be afraid of running out of firewood . You must leave immediately . Lisa, please protect the special envoy. Your Excellency , please leave here immediately. What about you? I want to kill Ye Shuoying and then leave . Are you looking for me? He is such an amazing person. It's time to settle the accounts. When push it up push the push stop push the what ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah what else can be done let me kill you like this . Be a good person in the next life. What are you driving here ? All of this was arranged by him in advance. Yes. Moody just wanted to catch the traitor hidden among us and kill Jinjin Takeo and others. In fact, we already found this man two days ago. The snake did not tell you that Shuangying carefully planned this operation. First, he saved you. He reinforced the small platform and the elevator where the corpse was, and then placed the explosives at the predetermined location. Then he asked Uncle Ya and I to hide in the cave in advance. We set the Huang Sanxia flashlight as a signal for action. When those people from Jinjing Wufu arrived at the scheduled explosion location, they immediately detonated the explosives. Sure enough , today they killed Zhang Xiaotian, the Japanese devils and traitors from Jinjing Wufu , but he paid the price with his life. The price was too high in comparison. The current result is that the price is not too high . What's going on with you? After a few days of exploration, it has been basically determined that this is the door to the treasure house. Let's do it. We are all ready. Why is it so dark? I found it , haha, sister Tiexin. Hahaha I got rich hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Lao Feng is so good I finally found it