I wanted to be the Carrie Bradshaw of Korea. (That Sex and the City main character...) And my dream was to be the Oprah Winfrey of Korea. I don't think so either. What is... I define "Worker's High" as... That I disappear. Ask author Kwak Jeong-eun about the fuel of my life Hello I once dreamed of being the Korean Carrie Bradshaw, At one point, I decided to be a cool broadcaster and dreamed of being the Oprah Winfrey of Korea Now I want to create a value and a genre that people will remember forever, and I want to be the Marcus Aurelius of Korea I'm Kwak Jeong-eun, a writer. What about my early years in society? For me, as an adult who had to earn a living, I naturally started my career. I worked at a monthly magazine for 13 years, So after a month of working and earning a month's worth of money, I was always on edge. I was always on edge. What if I get laid off from my job next month... I worked hard, got paid, and... It was a scary time, but it allowed me to grow. My humanity and My capabilities as a worker, These things keep stacking up. Fast forward about 10 years, and I'm a completely different type of person than I was as a college graduate. When you're on a TV show, what's your status? When I started broadcasting, I was scared. Because on the show, I had to sound like I was more attractive and knew more than I did. And the public has given me the ridiculous title of "relationship expert," when in reality, I'm an idiot whenever I meet someone I like... But I'm an expert in the field? I went from being an office worker to suddenly being a broadcaster... I was very worried, "Is this going to set me back?" Even though my life changed, or my income, or my confidence, or my attitude, or any of those things, I think my fuel as a worker was still fear. Were you afraid of the sudden fame? I was scared too, but I think I was fine the whole time. Even before that, I was already a journalist, a writer, and a radio broadcaster... Speaking my thoughts was already my history. The ripple effect was suddenly huge. The next day, I was listed a lot on the real-time search list. Actually, I felt good It's good to live quietly, but in this life, I'm trying to express myself diligently and make that expression meaningful to someone. "Isn't it hard when you're famous?", a lot of people ask me. No regrets, no retreat "If I could go back in time, I'd take the path I'm on now." I can tell you this for sure. Suddenly your specialty has changed? You'd be surprised if you only saw the results. The last thing the public remembers of me is me giving relationship advice, and suddenly I'm emphasizing meditation. When I first learned to meditate, it was already eight years ago. When I was really struggling, someone recommended meditation to me, and I ended up going to India. When I first started studying the mind there, it was like a light was turned on inside of me. I realized I needed to study this. As soon as I got back, I started studying counseling psychology as a master's degree. I thought I had already reached a certain peak. When I was in broadcasting, "I'm a journalist and author, traveling the country giving talks, and it seems like it's only a matter of time before I retire." But it was just a statue. I wasn't done making this, there was one more rock I hadn't even touched yet. This statue is just for me, I worked so hard to make it. But when I got to the top, that was all there was. But that one tree, that one stone, that one rock, that one tree that hasn't been touched yet, that was the best gift I could give myself and others through my work. Why study? I think usually we study to grab more. More money, a bigger house, time to retire early and play and eat. time to retire early and play and eat. I think we are studying because of all these sensory desires. I had already fulfilled this sensual desire and started studying. If there is a deeper level of happiness, what does it look like? The kind of study that can impact other beings beyond myself. &quot;Give what you've learned to others.&quot; If you keep climbing the same mountain, you'll eventually fall off the top. I think we need to move horizontally to another dimension. A fish cannot know the lifetime of a frog. If a frog says to a fish, "Hey, there's this thing called land!", the fish will respond, "What's air?". In the world we live in, this definition of success is like the water in which fish live. Isn't it a little sad to realize too late that you could have tried more? How do you stay focused when studying? When I get sleepy while writing a paper, I sometimes watch YouTube shorts. I sit down for 14 hours a day to write my dissertation and wonder, "How can I sit for so long?" Distracted vs Not distracted? That's not what I meant, I'm not trying to develop a concentration. If you knew the direction of your life completely... "What else would you do?" "This is all I know how to do" "I love doing this" This will keep you focused and moving forward. Once you become internally solid, shallow distractions become enjoyable. &quot;Should I watch 'shorts'?&quot; I was thinking &quot;I woke up&quot; I'm writing again What your Worker's High is? Really really, really, this is really 10 years ago 10 years ago when I was taking the whole country by storm with my love lectures I was filled with thoughts about myself, and it was really painful. Even if 500 people came and sat down, two people in front of me could fall asleep. but the two people dozing off are too much for my eyes. "Why are they sleeping?" It was hard because I couldn't stop thinking about it. I always have a lot of regrets after finishing the stage, and what if I don't get any work next month? What should I do? What should I do? But now, when I give lectures, I often feel like I've disappeared. In that moment, I'm not saying what I want to say, I'm saying what the audience wants to hear. I'm not obsessed with myself, so I'm not afraid. The book I'm reading these days is Meditations by Marcus Aurelius, It contains a lot of his thoughts on death. If you think about the fact that I actually didn't exist, doesn't that give you some hints about what mode of work you should be in? I never existed and will disappear anyway, so why should I care about that when I'm working? There are moments when I completely put myself down and focus on my work, which I define as "Workers' High". It's a very ecstatic state To me, &quot;Workers' High&quot; The disappearance of me from my mind. What drives you to work these days? In the past, 95% of my fuel was fear, but now 95% of my fuel is other people. Everything I learn helps someone else who doesn't know me. My studies save time for those who want to listen to me. I've already failed, made mistakes, and experienced it. I hope others can avoid the landmines in life that I stepped on. I wish people could save time and take the shortcut to shine by listening to the woeful hours I went through. the woeful hours I went through. Studying, thinking and speaking are my talents. Now I have the conditions to study. So I have to study for others first. Because that makes my life so happy. You know that feeling of goosebumps running up and down your back? When communicating with the public, When reading comments on my book, When I see the look on people's faces when they discover my intentions or empathize with me, What is this feeling? What is this ecstasy that is spreading through my body? It's a true "Worker's High" that you get when you've fulfilled your minimum human responsibilities. I think of it like this. But it's not until you've been there...