It's time to crack open the forbidden brutal even for war. Affecting anyone these are the most insane weapons #15. Incendiary Weapons Fire. There is no more powerful force in nature. blaze that can wipe out hundreds of years of stark - homes burned, people suffering from that can poison the air for miles around and it often takes hundreds of people to put them it no surprise that some people would try to This tactic has a long history. Incendiary weapons use ignition rather than burn slower and longer. Thermal weapons have using substances like oil, animal Then came gunpowder, allowing bigger be built - and eventually dropped on enemy with World War II being largely defined that set cities afire. And this would continue So how did these weapons wind up banned? The Vietnam War shocked people with its and Napalm attacks were responsible for many weapons can be hard to control, and the blazes sides. That led the 1980 Convention on Certain limits. They can still be used in a targeted areas. And the use of tools like flamethrowers One of the most likely types of weapons to be banned? Those that are only #14. Cluster Munitions Nothing is more common in a warzone than the sight to survive these bombardments. They seek cover shock, and head out to explore once the initial didn't just drop a standard bomb - it dropped meaning that every step someone takes in the will kill or maim someone who survived the first This is the horror of a cluster bomb. So why would anyone create these horrible creating terror and driving people underground effectively in war. Scattering mini-bombs vehicles when they roll into the battlefield, and If the first hit doesn't knock out the enemy's maybe all the little follow-up hits will. Maybe too successful, and too brutal. These weapons have been used since the Vietnam since. They've left a trail of maimed and while some countries continue to use conflicts in Syria, Yemen, and Ethiopia The Convention on Cluster Munitions was first the world's countries have signed on and ensured One of the banned weapons left a #13. Land Mines Some of the deadliest weapons around A unit is walking through a jungle, they hear they're blown sky-high. Not only are they maimed but it's likely that anyone around Any enemy soldiers in the territory and can descend on the injured unit and finish It's not surprising that this Early land mines were used as far back as but it wasn't until the First World War that their use of more powerful explosives and more sensitive heavily lined with them - and those that didn't places dangerous even years after the war. But it conflict since, with millions of land mines And it wasn't the deaths in wars Cambodia, Sudan, and Iraq were just three of the and the civilians in those countries soon found mean the threat was. Countless people lost and the world responded. In 1997, a convention and most of the world's nations have signed on - in the world, Russia, China, and the United getting rid of the millions already And weapons don't always need #12. Blinding Lasers One of the newest weapons in the military's expire and they don't explode. They're and their only limit is how much energy the into many uses for lasers, from cutting through one use is particularly controversial - using them them. And this is a common-enough topic that So what are the rules relating to lasers? For one thing, armies can still use them. as they're meant to cause only temporary allowing them to regain their vision. Lasers can the potential to cause blindness - so if it's the army has deniability. The effect is the sun - except the sun is concentrated in a This raises the question - are Unlike other banned weapons like land mines, which blinding lasers are rare. Some were used in Iraq, and many reports indicate China is developing its current Iron Dome missile system with It looks increasingly like that lasers Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons to This next ban dated back longer than any others. #11. Poisoned Bullets The Geneva Convention? Forget about it. Let's between France and the Holy Roman Empire, one of of weapons. And the man behind the weapons that who had created some of the first-ever enhanced and sulfur that could be used to target the bullets had been poisoned - that goes back armies would use animal dung or dead bodies to It wouldn't be the last time this idea was used. The deal between France and the Holy Roman Empire bullets spread far and wide. After all, wouldn't even if you only winged them? While poisoning and this was one of the only reasons this it was an ongoing threat through it wouldn't be the last time But it's a long road to actually In 1874, another conference advised the banning later the Hague Declaration banned the use of the use of poisoned bullets largely slipped under until after the First World War. Today, the use and it's rarely a threat - but that may be the enemy with modern weaponry - and there But it's not the only bullet 10. Expanding Ordnance It sounds like a funny name - dum-dum bullets. out of a neon-colored gun - they're one of the When someone gets shot in the battlefield, the unit is under fire, and the choice is either bleed out, or try a risky battlefield surgery go from slim to none when the bullet is designed Because these bullets aren't designed When hollow-point or soft-point bullets enter the body. This slows their impact and causes more the body. While standard bullets might go in and are more likely to cause a fatal injury. They're a good shot more quickly than an angry deer But if you're trying to save a gunshot Because the bullet expands behind the wound, entry wound - which makes it tricky to remove for use by hunters and by police departments they've been illegal according to the there is no mention of these weapons in the this long-standing international taboo - with the Other weapons leave behind even trickier remnants. #9. Non-Detectable Fragments There's been a terrible explosion, They're rushed to a field hospital, and the something's wrong - the soldier is still bleeding shrapnel. The surgeon has only two choices causing additional injuries and prolonging nature take its course. But what dark secret It's one of the darkest secrets of warfare. Bombs and landmines are often equipped of fragments not made of metal, but of While large pieces might show up on X-rays, to hide in the body and continue causing damage this could cause chronic pain and become a major they can cause uncontrolled bleeding that And the world decided it was time to act. The Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons other than to cause additional pain and death, were among them. It's considered to be a war found in tactics used by guerilla armies, similar fragments expanded to something else - land mines. the ban on plastic land mines that can't Surprisingly, some weapons are #8. Tear Gas and Pepper Spray It doesn't seem like the same level as tear gas is frequently used by police in domestic it easier to arrest them. It's painful, but rarely used in some places as a personal weapon. But it's that means it's covered under the Hague Convention Why are non-lethal weapons It's not just because it's a chemical weapon - by incapacitating soldiers in the middle of tear gas is assumed to be a non-lethal for lethal force, there's no such thing Soldiers are prepared to shoot and kill their to gun them down while they can't even see or But just because it's illegal, In World War I, Tear Gas was actually the most Convention was largely ignored. It continues and international law agencies usually have that when soldiers go through military training, to show them how their protective gear works would there be anything scarier than a soldier But it's far from the most #7. Poison Gas It might sound like something you'd spray on but mustard gas has nothing to do with the notorious chemical weapons of all time and takes on when it's released and its scent that a nice long whiff. Based on sulfur, it can inhale it - starting with painful blisters on But that's nothing compared to It causes devastating chemical burns, which impossible to breathe. It can also cause damage heavily carcinogenic. That means it can have effects have passed - but no one really knew that Poison gases had been in development since it kicked off an arms race - and soon the It was bad enough that it horrified the world. The aftermath of the war made people question since it lingered in the air and could followed - including phosgene gas, which and nerve gas, a neurotoxin that affected organ in the few survivors - only made the case poison gases were banned in the 1925 Geneva the Axis Powers largely refraining from the use they haven't gone away completely - Nerve gas was and these lethal gases continue to show Now, let's take a look at some of the #6. Animals This doesn't mean that animals can't PETA might disagree. For thousands of years, warriors and equipment into battle. Man's best other uses of animals as weapons of war are far to spread disease - and would be considered a form more creative methods of using animals as weapons to deliver weapons during World War II, while the tanks. While whether these strange uses of animals use animals to spread pathogens or distribute on those weapons in combat - after all, animals Recycling isn't always a great idea. #5. Unexploded Bombs Land mines, cluster mines, and other remnants wandering around, they can be a low-cost This became especially clear in the long-term deployed a lot of bombs in the infamous "graveyard next generation of radicals in the country, the them to line the roads - causing an explosion IEDs were no less deadly than modern bombs, banned them in Protocol V of the Convention doesn't fall entirely on the people using the involved in hostility to clear any explosive #4. Spike Pits It seems like something out of carefully covered to make it look like just soldier steps on the ground - it gives way and The traps were usually laden with sharpened sticks high-energy way to fill the battlefield with booby mines, and they were a problem for armies going as World War II in the Pacific Theater and the by the 1979 Convention on Certain Conventional many armies would up the danger factor on these droppings - making them likely to give the victim of favor with modern armies, it's impossible to Death comes from below - but #3. Balloon Bombs While they fall under the general ban on own twisted creation - creating free-floating and unleash unpredictable, deadly fire on the back as 1792 and were unleashed upon Italy by the skies were full of fire. The British launched over half of them carrying incendiary payloads. mainland was the Japanese Fu-Go Balloon attack - the balloons didn't have a high success rate, they free-floating and impossible to control, there was burn. It was a relief to all when they were banned showing up in the recent conflict between But some weapons can leave a much longer legacy. #2. Nuclear Weapons Wait, what? But the nuclear arms race is ongoing thousands. But despite these massive weapons technically illegal. In 1968, a treaty banning was ratified and countries that violate it could reason - it recognizes the states who currently give them up. The only states who have refused to nuclear weapons; Israel, which is believed to which withdrew from the treaty to begin developing weapons - now much more powerful than the ones not surprising many people want them banned future production went into effect... without the But there is one type of weapon #1. Biological Weapons A virus unleashed on the world can kill millions, Death alone killed up to a third of Europe in the pandora's box, because when a novel disease is it can be unstoppable. But that hasn't stopped plagues and unleash them on the enemy - no matter back centuries, starting with contaminating But when combined with modern Some of the deadliest diseases around including Anthrax, Cholera, Dysentery, Experiments were also done on a fast-acting and on engineering mosquitos and fleas to these weapons could deliver a blow to any conventional weapon. But there was Diseases don't stop where you want them to. Not only can you not control how diseases spread, That meant that the very same virus one army a much deadlier form. That fear was enough for the production, or stockpiling of biological weapons the treaty, largely consigning these weapons still have these deadly weaponized Want to learn more about science gone wrong? Check out "Scary Experiments That or watch "Disturbing Experiments on US Soldiers"