could include the loss of environmental news, Wisconsin is most of them are very old and at communities across the state in future before the dams burst and downstream, "Here&amp; Now" reporter communities in western Wisconsin do with their old dams. Wisconsin's Driftless Area was storms. were really dandy. of the dam, which is about 39ft boots would have been in water. months. Kickapoo watersheds near structures in the United States, event in 2018 that never &gt;&gt; Bob Macheel is the Monroe director, which is in charge of Somehow, no human lives were washed away and debris spread &gt;&gt; If you have a structure that bulldozer racing down the valley its path. between the two watersheds, and look like big dirt hills. expected lifespan and climate The dams were never designed to &gt;&gt; We have 11 more structures potential of happening again is &gt;&gt; The county commissioned a federal officials, to figure out might look like. The study including rebuilding or solution. If they are taken out, removal project in U.S. History. that there would even be a these dams out. They've saved from flash flooding now for &gt;&gt; Dave Eggen is a retired Vernon County Board, who has mile of at least six of the residents still say that they flood events. They worry that multiple floods a year, hurting &gt;&gt; There is no protection from high earthen dam. &gt;&gt; I have a concern over what operation. have to react when the dam is what the benefit really is. his grandfather who had farmed built. out here on these fields, he make a living farming in this flash flooding. Estimated at about $61 million. about 4 million. operate, maintain and repair County resource conservationist that's already in the process of &gt;&gt; But where that clay meets hillsides, that's proven to be &gt;&gt; All of the old dams in this underneath hillsides, but over &gt;&gt; We've seen one structure. they breached the same way. burst of water would be released power. Monroe, La Crosse and approved a plan to remove the additional studies, consultation any Earth is actually moved. Eggen and his allies to stress provide viable alternatives to towards these dams being taken options. contractor repairing the dams initially thought. general contractor in the county down and put in new age $250,000. deeper than the ballpark figures ratios were calculated to would be justified to repair the not enough people and structures to be released. million on a missile, and day over in in the middle East. handful of millions of dollars like we're standing on. for federal funding to be because it holds back a standing contaminated multiple times by forward and the dams are will have to change to survive a reckoning about how we live on &gt;&gt; Biggest concern really is &gt;&gt; Sidney Widell and Nancy Community Watershed Council. and Widell is watershed out that there are indeed many people or as landowners, to water, to make running water stranger to first of its kind federal government used this effectiveness of sustainable we going to do next? many of the practices building the terraces, returning whatever we can to infiltrate farms are higher on ridges and crops to slow water. She also planting perennials, oats, or Anything to build the quality of &gt;&gt; There's some levers that we others, and it's a matter of effectively as possible. not think that, yes, by we're going to solve problems. not. We can slow water and we &gt;&gt; A healthy ecosystem, they danger of smaller floods. five, ten, 25 year storm events, that. But when we get these 100 those are the ones we have to way. from the valley floor, there are sediment from recently the famous trout streams around impacted? There aren't easy questions, but these communities over the coming months. For the those buildings, that's their work I've ever done or will