- Oh, wow. I can buy this SSD that's Sold. This is a bad idea, isn't it? Sponsored by Linode. (air whooshing) Hey guys, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken and fake flash drive in SSD scams have plagued and it's finally time for We'll take a look at an and then I'll show you some in the wild so you don't get tricked. And then I'll show you so you can see if these So let's take a look at Londoncomfy. (air whooshing) I heard about this company from one of my viewers, Marianne, Londoncomfy's website claims business specializing in retail products. They have a lot of many with broken thumbnails. And overall, the giant unfocused list of products just has a And something that threw of their founder, Margot. When was the last time you saw a real CEO of a serious company posing with a logo of his own business on That just seems like a stock photo to me. A quick reverse search proved that. We can see many other for their shirt and mug renders. So we can reasonably conclude And if a brand is lying about I can only imagine what other Oh, and that phone number in It doesn't go anywhere. We're off to a great start the product yet. The SSD product page gives ranging from 500 gigabytes And it claims this SSD is fast file transfer speeds. Is that possible in the real world? Absolutely. Solid-state drives typically are faster than mechanical hard disc drives and they can store in a really small space. Instead of using a platter and an actuator arm, SSD store data in a chip using electrons, and more architecture of this episode. This allows the drive to store a lot of data in a compact and quiet space and it lets the computer but are we truly gonna get fast speeds and high capacity with this product? Let's keep digging. The Londoncomfy website also for the 25% sale. And this is just a to give you some urgency to make you want to buy immediately. Now, I do wanna make a because I've talked about this a lot. Not all countdown timers are bad. A countdown timer on a mean a product is a scam. There are legitimate uses for them, but when a website uses them over and over and don't actually lead to anything that truly Here's a way you can test that. (air whooshing) Take the webpage you're looking at, copy the link and paste or private browser window and load it up. If the timer changes, it's So that's the gist of And that brings us to with this product, the price. (air whooshing) The first big red flag for an eight terabyte 520 megabyte That sounds way too good to be true. Now, consumers that aren't may not realize that, but in reality that doesn't make any business sense. In 2022, if you were to buy form factor solid-state at least $1,000 on the cheaper end. If we look at a 2.5 inch form and similar speeds to what you're still looking at So there is no way Londoncomfy cramming it into an of a $99 sale. It's impossible. So always cross check prices. If you see a cheap gadget, to see what equivalent products And if you need help, feel free that is more versed in the tech space because they will have a So with this crazy and ludicrous pricing, you from a product like this, but of course, I went ahead and bought one. (air whooshing) I purchased the eight the purchase process and less spam-filled than many So I'll give them a gold star there. And it arrived. It took a couple weeks I think, but it didn't arrive in that the website shows. What a shame. Anyway, it's here now. So let's take a look at it. (air whooshing) The box has no brand names or any mention of Londoncomfy which is is likely just a generic Oh, made in China. Look at that. And the box advertises USB 3.1 speeds, which in theory would offer but we'll test that out soon. And inside the box, we get and two adapters. USB-A to C and USB-A to Micro B. And these instructions. When using desktop to be connected to the the main cabinet, like a filing cabinet. The power supply on is generally unstable. Butter fingers, who am I, Linus Tech Tips? Don't shake the body when accessing data with a mobile hard disc, or just like your body in general. Don't do this when using a hard Number four, don't fall. Like in general? I mean, yeah, that's So physically, the device looks okay. It's got a metal finish. It's small and compact, and test it for real. (duck quacking) Oh, they spelt flash wrong. It's gonna be a long day. (air whooshing) Anyway, I tried formatting The process took about two minutes when it usually takes a few seconds. Ultimately, the formatting finished and I ran Blackmagic's Disk And the speeds were atrocious. One megabyte per second wouldn't even execute. I reformatted the drive and funny enough, it got Better but still total crap. Side note, if you're on Windows, you can use CrystalDiskMark So the speed claims are false. And in the real world if you were trying to do serious work with it would be practically but I didn't stop there. I opened this device up in application and the speed registered as 480 megabits per second, of the older USB 2.0 standard, what's advertised, USB 3.1. If this was truly a USB 3.1 Gen 1 device, that speed would register about 10 times faster theoretically. So we have doubled claims are false. Certainly this product Let's test the capacity. (air whooshing) I'm using a Windows This test writes thousands of and then it verifies them to of the device. For a control, I tested a and the test showed no errors. Great, moving on. For this eight terabyte drive, to run because the drive speed is so slow and it has a lot of And of course, Windows in the middle of the test so I had to restart from the halfway point. Thanks Windows, it's not to do with my life. Actually I don't, so I pressed that pause updates button so now we should be fine. The test ran for 39 more hours and then it got interrupted again. I think because I bumped the USB cable. It fits really loose but that doesn't surprise me. This thing is a cheap piece of crap. Either way I had the data I needed and I couldn't justify because it takes days to run. The final results shows 58.2 and 3.1 terabytes of data was lost. And 164 gigabytes of of a total 3.37 terabytes verified. So only 58.2 gigabytes of on here which is actually was gonna be. I was giving this product too much credit, but I wanted to go beyond Now, I wanna try this out something I do all the (air whooshing) I reformatted the drive and I'm copying an over video editing library onto the drive. The transfer was incredibly it looks like it finished with no errors, but of course the data The final cut library size in the Quick Look window And the library would not open either. I dug into the library bundle A movie file that was within actually opens successfully the test results, but all other So despite showing up in the it can actually only is less than 1% of the So how is this thing tricking the OS? Here's how that works. (air whooshing) The flash storage chips on to communicate with the This brain is a controller which is generally a separate on the board. The controller uses a and communicate properly. And firmware is a type of software that is programmed directly However, this firmware can be programmed in a misleading way so the OS the incorrect capacity. And as I have shown, this the advertised speed or capacity. It's not even close. So let's bust this thing open to see if we can find out what parts it's using and maybe that will as to why this thing sucks so much. And first, I have to give a special thanks to Noah-n Cares, Lane Wallen, You guys helped me research this episode and I appreciate that very much. All right, now let's bust this thing open. (upbeat music) Okay, so this thing is It really looks like they or that was just their lazy So the glue was a problem and about using alcohol to dissolve the glue, but I have heard that heat works okay. Unfortunately, I didn't realize that until after I busted out my caveman skills and kind of just cut and So unfortunately we just have some remains in this baggy here, but still This thing is literally that adapts to USB-C. Here's the card smashed in the process, but you can see by the contacts, not an M.2 SSD. And that surprised me because be a cheap storage medium like you'd find in a USB 2.0 pen drive it's literally just a micro SD card. And I'm going to guess that has the fakey firmware on it. And what's amusing is the to make it look like an but clearly this board I should also mention Atomic an episode about this topic. So feel free to check that out too. Coincidentally, he dropped that episode while I was working on my own. Almost as if he's spying on me. Relax Ken, no one is spying on you. I know that, I'm not paranoid. Anyway, yeah, it's a piece of crap, but if you use Linode, they and capacity that you actually pay for. They do it right. If you have an application to scale or deploy, Linode and the 24/7 support you Linode is much more (air whooshing) Linode offers out of box apps CS:GO, and even Minecraft. You can run your own virtual build an online application management system or build with a multitude of app choices. There's so much you can do Linux virtual machines. And to boot, they offer award-winning 24/7 technical support. To put it simply, if it runs Visit linode.com/computerclan and click the create free account button. And when you do that, I'll just for watching this And you're also supporting So thank you very much. So be wary of those fake And the biggest red flag Check those prices 'cause after all, if it looks too good to Well, that was a lot to go through. Now I have to store all of Well, I hope I used a reliable SSD Ha ha ha ha (upbeat music)