Today I want to talk about the online encyclopedia of integer sequences. This is a website which has- it's a database full of sequences. In fact the the encyclopedia has been going for nearly 50 years. It started in book form and it's now grown into a big website. So it started off by a guy called Neil Sloane and he- for his research he needed to- just needed to tell some sequences apart and he wrote them down. And he just started to collect his sequences together, they were on to punch cards - this is going back quite a while now. And when the internet came along that was a nice opportunity to put it online and there are now two hundred thousand and more examples of integer sequences. So there might be things like the prime numbers, the square numbers; just sequences with special properties. The classic example, right: 1729 is a important number in mathematics, it's part of mathematics folklore. 1729 was the number that Ramanujan talked about when Hardy asked him, you know, this is a boring number can you think of anything interesting about this number? And he said 1729 is the smallest number that can be written as the sum of two cubes in two different ways. plus 12 cubed and it's equal to 9 cubed plus 10 cubed, so that's an interesting, that's interesting isn't it? other interesting things about 1729, that's not the only interesting thing about it. And so it actually turns up in other sequences - I'm just going to pull out- this is the paper that I'm going to refer to, in here it gives 1729 as an example. So let's have a look, 1729 is also the third Carmichael number, that means 1729 divides x to the power 1729 minus X for all X. So whatever value X is it will divide that perfectly - it's the third Carmichael number. It's also the sixth pseudo-prime number in base 2; which means 1729 divides 2 to the power 1729 minus 1, minus 1. So there you called a pseudo-prime. It's the thirteenth number that is one more than a cube. And here the last example they've got here I quite like this one: 1729 is the total number of ways to express 33 as the sum of six integers. Again all these different properties for 1729. The point is, the more properties it has the more sequences it appears in and I guess the more interesting the number is. So the more often it appears in the encyclopedia of integers the more interesting the numbers should be. So what the guys who wrote this paper have done is they counted how often each number appeared in the encyclopedia of integers. And they looked at what pattern that made. Now, try and think of what pattern you think that might make, but this is what they got. And you can see it's quite clearly a curve, it decreases, it's a curve. They found a little formula just to describe that curve: this curve - I'll write it on the paper - is 253 million divided by N to the power 1.33. So that's the equation of that curve. So these numbers are appearing far more often in the encyclopedia of integers, these turn up really often and then the ones that are lower down here appear less often. But here's the interesting thing; you can quite clearly see in this curve a gap appearing. There is a And yet the numbers are actually forming two bands. So there's a top band which is filled with the popular numbers, they're turning up the most often, then this is huge gap and then underneath there's a bottom band there which are your less popular numbers, they're the ordinary numbers that aren't turning up so often. And that's quite surprising. They could generate this sort of curve if they had a machine generating sequences and integers, this is exactly the sort of curve you would expect, so that wasn't a surprise. The surprising thing was they have this gap separating popular numbers from the less popular numbers. Now the ones in the top band are actually numbers like the primes. All the primes are there, in fact almost all the primes are in the top band. About 95% of square numbers are in the top band, in the popular band. There are numbers like numbers that are just perhaps 1 or- plus 1 or minus 1 off a power of 2; so that'd be 2 to the power n plus 1 or 2 to the power n minus 1. Or there might be number such that have lots of factors; numbers that factorise into lots of little factors, those tend to appear in the top band. Other numbers that appear in the top band are ones that have special properties in base 10; so numbers like 1111 are in the top band, 2222, 3333 all appear in the popular band of numbers. So what they think is happening here is obviously this is cultural - that the popular numbers are the ones that the mathematicians like. These are the primes, or numbers that are related to primes, and they are they are elevated above the ordinary numbers and so they have a special place all by themselves. And they're elevated by such an amount that you can see a quite clear space between them. We'd like to thank audible.com for their support of this video; and if you go to audible.com/numberphile you can actually download a free audiobook. Now there are loads of mathematics based books we could recommend, but today I thought I'd recommend something a bit different: The Fault in Our Stars which is an excellent book. I think it's probably targeted at a slightly younger audience than me but it's a book I really loved. And John's also a really great member of the YouTube community and makes awesome videos. The book's also just been made into a film so you might want to get ahead of the game before the film comes out. So again, thanks to Audible for their support of our films and if you want to check them out and maybe download that free book: audible.com/numberphile. So in 2012 the smallest number that didn't appear was 13,794 - doesn't appear in the encyclopedia at all. Now I went and checked if that was still true and I'm afraid that it is no longer still true, I think it's about four sequences that that now appears in.