Hi guys, welcome to another episode of Ultimate And on today's show I'm going to be showing And unlike some of the other YouTube fraudsters around the inside. No really! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the residence Buckingham Palace is the most famous royal With over 775 rooms. at least 200 bedrooms and 92 offices. it's the largest of the Royal Palaces. But even though millions of people visit it gates and take pictures from the outside. Very few people actually step foot inside Well today I'm one of the lucky ones! So what's it like to go around the most famous Follow me your trusty tour guide and let's The main road that leads to Buckingham Palace You've probably seen this on TV many times It's where the royal processions take place, guard ceremony, which happens at 11 o'clock Check out my future video right here. Right outside you'll find the Victorian memorial, It's cool to check it out before the tour and videos of the Palace. What you're seeing right now is known as the Contrary to popular belief the Queen isn't The only time she does venture here to the to the public. Speaking of which, look up at the flagpole If the royal standard is flying high, it means If the union jack is up there, it means that So you can instantly tell if she's at the Most people just hang around the gates and going inside. So you'll need to go to the left here and here at Buckingham Gate. Not the front bit full of tourists and posers. If you don't have tickets you'll need to buy Good luck with that! Buckingham Palace is incredibly popular and If you have pre-booked tickets your entrance long queue to actually get in. Before they let you any further, they'll security you into the Palace itself. Pick up your complimentary audio guide right few corridors where you'll enter the first This is the Quadrangle. This is basically the courtyard of Buckingham As you can see from the videos here, quite moment, so it's nothing really to write home But then you'll head into what's known as is! This is the place where you will officially guest. Full of crimson, red and gold and white everywhere. You'll then get led up the Grand Staircase, Many of the world's most important people surreal to actually follow in the footsteps Right at the top of the stairs is this foyer, And the ceiling detail here is pretty amazing From the foyer you'll be led into the Green It's called that because the walls are green. But the things you'll probably notice more the incredibly decorative antiques and the Contrary to popular belief, the Green Drawing before you meet the monarch. Because then room next door is where you'll This is the Throne Room. Any function that requires the Queen to wear Traditionally, this is the place where you But that now happens in a separate room that But check out the chandeliers, the ceiling gold. And the thrones themselves - they've got the RIP Prince Philip. A really really spectacular room! You'll then enter this peach-coloured walkway. This is none other than the famous picture of art. You'll notice some of the most famous paintings Rembrandts, Vermeer's and paintings of other If you're not really into art, it's kind But if you know roughly anything to do with in itself. Even though you're not in an art gallery! Keep walking further until the walls turn Again it's a small collection of royal artwork. I'm particularly fond of the antiques on which I like very very much. You'll then be led into what's known as the the Queen will dine intimately with other currently an exhibition of the Queen's personal You'll get to see many things such as the But the most famous piece that you'll probably This is the Queen's personal crown that she where her official portrait is required such It's a nice exhibition of the Queen's personal But once you exit the Ball Supper Room, you'll Buckingham Palace. This is the Grand Ballroom. Traditionally built as a ballroom for dancing dignitaries from around the world. So if a royal banquet is happening it will As you can imagine it takes a whole army of banquet. But there's one other important thing that Right at the end of the room, you'll notice Because this is the place where investitures Queen or a member of her royal family. And this happens literally right here, so thus: and face the Queen. You'll need to bow (or curtsy if you're a on the stool here. She will tap you with a sword on the right you to arise, announcing your name and she She will then make small talk with you for hand. You retreat back three steps bow (or curtsy) And there you have it. From commoner to knight in less than a minute. Not that any of these board looking tourists You'll then come across what's known as the Also known as the 1844 Room, the biggest thing and gold everywhere and the fact that this to dine in herself. The ceiling detail is very unique and spend in here. It's an amazing room. The next up is the Blue Drawing Room which of the amount of crystal and gold and white It doesn't look very blue at all, but if you entertain groups of dignitaries. At the end of the Blue Drawing Room you'll Even though it's called the Music Room, and the middle, it's actually more used for the So in theory this should be called "the But if you're meeting the Queen one on one right here. At the White Drawing Room. This famous room decked out in white and gold meet with very important people, such as the of other countries. Complete with Queen Victoria's Gold Piano But behind this unassuming bureau lies the From her apartments, she can actually access But it's not so secret anymore, because everybody left it open means that it's not really a Still pretty nice though! You'll then meander through the Ante Room. Not much to see in here. Before going down the Minister's Steps and You'll then enter the Marble Hall. And as the name suggests it's full of marble It's a very nice hall indeed. That leads to the final room that you'll see Traditionally this is used as an indoor meeting Buckingham Palace, particularly the garden For you this is pretty much the end of the because there's plenty more to see here at Right guys you're halfway through the video you the chance to win this free bag of memorabilia, Palace shop. Stick around to the end of the video to find video ... As an ordinary member of the public, you don't Palace. But what you can do, is have afternoon tea So if you feel like partaking in the great Palace, you can do! The caterers here are the same ones that supply And even though the food looks lovely, and spending forever in the queue. It took me 25 minutes just to grab a latte, I'm probably going to be here once in my I can. You can actually pay for a separate tour of point is literally right here where you exited The Palace Gardens is where the Queen officially At select times throughout the year, ordinary be invited to meet the Queen and members of If you're lucky enough to be invited to a to be an exceptional shindig. This lawn also acts as the de facto helipad So if the President of the United States wants here. You'll notice that most of the walkways are above. After walking past the Queen's swimming pool apartments (which you can't go into), you'll This is the part of the gardens that she frequents Apparently she's incredibly fastidious in She wants the garden to be more accessible Which kind of makes sense?! Apparently she's an expert in all things flora here a run for his money. When you walk through it yourself, admittedly If you didn't know that this is the Queen's at your local park at home. There's nothing really special about it. I mean yes, the flower beds are really nice, for sure. There's a few things that the Queen has been garden, but overall, it's a pretty average tour at best. Case in point: this is the Queen's personal That you can see on Google Maps but you can't So if you've only got a short amount of time, You won't be missing all that much. Before you leave Buckingham Palace for good Two beautiful girls huh, great! Where was I? Oh yeah .... before you leave Buckingham Palace shop. You can buy royal themed gifts like Buckingham Portugal. Kitchenware, jewellery and all the typical You'll actually walk through the Palace Gardens I just paid for a tour of it. And you'll be let out on the street around This is the Royal family's personal collection every few months. As you can tell from these clips it's currently that the royal family have received from the Once you go in you'll be security checked where you can pick up your free audio guide. And don't get me wrong, I do like Japanese Especially as it pertains to weaponry such of. It's all very nice ... but it's got nothing fact that they own this stuff. If you've come all the way to London to experience with the Queen's Gallery. Hopefully next month, they'll have something When you go down the stairs, you'll probably Where you can, once again, buy lots of royal And oh my goodness, how much is it for a teapot? Yikes! But your day at Buckingham Palace isn't finished Gate lies the Royal Mews. This is where all the Queen's horses and all And most tourists generally avoid going in You'll get to meet some of the Queen's horses. This is Castle Jordan, and that over there Shut up Meg! You'll see where they get trained, and you'll Now you can guide yourself around the Royal free of charge audio guide. But if you've got a bit of time, hang around that happen during the day. This tour guide right here, his name was Phil. He was excellent and if you do come here look The tour guide will show you around the Royal the semi-state landau, which is used to transport The Irish state coach, the personal coach The Scottish State Coach, which is the one The Queen Alexandra's State Coach, which The glass coach, it's a bit of a misnomer specifically to transport the bride. And in a room all by itself is the Queen's This is the preferred coach of Queen Elizabeth This coach looks like a relic but it has modern Hydraulic suspension. Air conditioning. CCTV cameras so that the Queen can spy on And all of the other things that a typical Gold leafing, crystal lanterns, diamond encrusted They'll also show you a selection of the vehicles or is driven around in. She generally favours Bentley's and Rolls have number plates. Because she's the Queen and doesn't need them! You'll get a short talk about the inner workings still a working stable today. Speaking of which, you'll actually get to Currently most of the horses are actually I'm honestly not joking about that! Which means that all the stalls are pretty horse poop. But that's actually a good thing because they've to be the Queen for photos and videos, and In here is also where you'll learn how the of the specific people who perform specific It's all very very interesting. But here at the Royal Mews they've saved the Because right at the end of the room here, all. It's none other than the one, the only, Her Almost nine meters long and four meters high. Four tons of gold encrusted steel, requiring This is the most priceless vehicle in the of every monarch since the 1700s. The detail on this thing is exquisite! Queen Elizabeth herself has described the " ... horrible! It's not meant for traveling in at all. I mean it's just not, it's only sprung on Yeah apparently she hates riding in this thing. But when you're the head of the commonwealth up with doing some very uncomfortable things. And that's pretty much the end of the Royal There's a gift shop! But it's not a very big one, and you're better Palace itself. So guys I've just finished my day here at definitely was worth the money. It was pretty amazing to see all the things personal. And if you are visiting central London, I thing that you book, when you're planning If you need any additional help of course, guide right here. Okay Ninh I'm sold what do I need to do? Well you need to come here to Buckingham Palace. It's centrally located here in London, within and Big Ben. If you're arriving via the tube system, the station, and St. James's Park tube station. Both of which are about a five minute walk If you want to arrive by the bus, that's okay, there. And every taxi driver in the city knows where The one thing I definitely don't recommend Not just because the traffic is terrible, around here. To buy tickets you'll need to go on the RCT there. Please note that the State Rooms and Palace not in residence, and that's mostly during July and September, and select days throughout So you really have to check the website in open. If the State Rooms aren't open whilst you're the Royal Mews and the Queen's Gallery all via the website. The cost? well if you want to do absolutely everything I did all four things here at Buckingham Palace I'll leave the separate ticket prices on If you're running short on time I highly recommend the Royal Mews. You can leave out the other two bits and you The best value ticket is the Royal Day out, Mews and the Queen's Gallery, so that's highly Is there anything else I need to know? Yes, if you're coming to Buckingham Palace summer is always busier than the end of summer. So if you've got flexible dates that you can towards the end of the summer when it's not better. Also photography and videography is strictly and the Palace Gardens, but you're free to at the Royal Mews and the Queen's Gallery. You'll be waiting around a lot! You'll be waiting to get in you'll be waiting for a simple cup of coffee, so bear in mind you might be queuing and hanging around for If you're planning to visit Buckingham Palace stamped at the exit, because it allows you And finally whilst there's no official dress to not dress like a complete slob. So wear what you want, but bear in mind you So guys that was my complete video guide to I hope you've enjoyed this video. And if you have, please be sure to like share Comment on the comment section below, if you've And if you've got any other suggestions for Tweet them at me! If I get enough suggestions I'll go ahead But otherwise from here at Buckingham Palace, Right it's competition time guys, and I'm Palace goodie bag, which consists of the official yearbook, with matching keyring, this rather (RARR!), all encased in this royal red bag. To enter just follow the link in the description I'll pick out a winner at random in a couple in the world. Help me out by sharing this video and win luck! Ninh Ly - www.ninh.co.uk - @NinhLyUK