Growing up, I would have never thought I would be in this position. I'm aware a lot of people my age would probably get a studio apartment or would like to live on their own, but personally, I love living with other people, whether it be a roommate or family. My name is Sharon Kim and when I was 23 years old, I was able to purchase my first home in the suburbs of New York City for $750,000. I decided to switch careers into tech because I wanted to focus more on high income skills, so I'd have more confidence to support myself to pay off any student loans post-college. Purchasing a home was always a long term goal, but I didn't really think it was possible with all the student loans that I had and still figuring out my career. My brother suggested that maybe we can live together post college with him and his wife, and during that time save on rent to combine finances and buy one together. Growing up, finances were definitely a challenge within my family. My parents immigrated from South Korea before I was born, and I think trying to build a better life for themselves as well as my siblings, there was definitely a lot of financial challenges. My parents taught me that we should be really intentional with how we spend our money. Intentionality of if I need this purchase has stuck with me till this day. So in regards to my monthly budget, the biggest expense would probably be my mortgage. I currently pay 2500 a month and afterwards, although I try to eat the most at home, I like to try out new cocktail bars or new restaurants. There's currently a spreadsheet that we keep track of and any expenses, say, at BJ's or Costco, that we go to. It would be tracked in a spreadsheet with the receipt and the amount split in three. Identifying as Christian. My religion is very important to me, and I think dedicating a portion of my income towards my faith is is a major factor in a way to give thanks for all the blessings and definitely even the house I was able to purchase. So when it came to purchasing a home, it was definitely very overwhelming as it would be our first one. I think the most important factor is knowing around what budget that we were wanting to purchase our home within. So first, getting an idea of the amount of savings or how much we wanted to put down, and then from that kind of working backwards of the location of where we wanted to live in the beginning, when it came to the budget, I think it was really about what we were both comfortable with. We didn't want to approach it as we're going to do everything 50% you versus 50% him if, say, one was making more income than the other because this is going to be a family house. We were both willing to pull out of all of our investments, which is what happened. I started my YouTube channel in 2018 and I'm very passionate about education. The first video I made was about getting into Parsons. I really want to knowledge share, since I wasn't able to attend private art school classes back then. And I think that motivation to wanting to be transparent in terms of education has followed me and translated itself when I started transitioning into UX design, and I wanted to share that with others as well. So I wasn't able to start monetizing until 2021. Being a content creator, income definitely fluctuates, but I'm super thankful to have been able to leverage best I can what I had at the time, and my best year in social media. I made close to $120,000 in 2022. When we bought the home, it was valued around $750,000. And the way we split it is as I'm single and my brother is married, he is covering for him and his wife's portion. So I own about 30% and he owns 70% of the home as of now. Something we didn't expect when trying to purchase our home is just how steep the competition was. I remember there was one home we were looking at that had over 100 visitors in the span of two hours for an open house, and when we tried to put in our first offer at the time, it's 3.5% down. That's what we were hearing. We found out the next day that it was sold for over asking price by another buyer, fully in cash, so we did not expect how expensive or how steep the competition would be. We purchased this home in early 2024, and from the date of signing and officially making the house ours to the time we wanted to move in, we had ten weeks or so, and during that time we had to get everything done in terms of ordering the floors, knowing what paint colors, the samples for flooring. We did about 80% of the renovations on our own. The only things we outsource were the things we absolutely did not know how to do on our own. Putting in the countertops, installing the cabinets. That was something we did hire out for contractor. But in terms of sanding the walls, painting the flooring, doing the baseboards, the staircases, that was mostly done between me and my brother and sister in law. I think in terms of, say, splitting the home or the living arrangements, we ultimately kept each other in mind of what we thought was fair. For example, they understand that because I have social media, I may need a more private space. They decided to give me two bedrooms, on top of which one I converted into my office. But in terms of disagreements, I think it was more learning how to communicate and live with each other. Although we had a bit of a rough patch in terms of what we'd expect from the other person. We really did work through that, through a couple conversations, and now we just learn to be a lot more understanding of each other. I primarily spend a lot of time in the kitchen or living room here, or if not, in my office, and they would take the family room downstairs. But when I'm finished with work, we would all have dinner together. And I think it's a good dynamic of being able to do our own work, but then coming together at the end of the day to say, watch a movie or do chores together. Adjusting my social life to be more in the suburbs has definitely been a bit more of a challenge. It takes a lot more time or a bit more intention to try to plan out ahead. I can't spontaneously go into the city as easily as I want to in the past. However, I think for the friends I really love spending time with and I'm very close to, I will always make time for them, although it just takes a bit more planning ahead to have that expectation. The first time we showed our parents a house, it definitely felt like a surreal experience. This was something we've been planning or felt like a dream for multiple years since first moving to America. I would love to purchase another home with my family again. There are talks with our other brother who's currently not living with us, and there's conversations of us all potentially teaming up together to purchase a sibling home for more investment reasons. I did not ever imagine that I would be living with my brother, with his wife purchasing a home post-college. I'm just thankful that I happen to be living with family and people that I trust.