Summer 1940. The United Kingdom is gripped has been defeated, and a German air and looks imminent. As both Britain and Germany for control of the skies over Britain. amphibious landing -- but even if they do win, By June 1940, Britain is in a deep have decisively defeated France, resulting Norway surrenders following a German amphibious Channel Islands - British sovereign territory. country faced with German-occupied territory from Home Forces number 15 infantry divisions and one undertrained. More troops arrive via evacuations, but there's not enough equipment to go around. mortar emplacements, and fortified houses Coastal Crust and interior General Headquarters such as the Flame Fougasse - barrels of napalm guerilla units are expected to hit flimsy There is also a mass recruitment drive for the new formation in May, 250,000 men outside conscription arm them, they'll use anything to fight: supplemented by a packet of pepper persistent unwelcome visitor." (Fleming 201) power, especially in terms of tanks, Paratroopers in particular seem to defensive barrier. A June 1940 pamphlet warns: not be feeling at all brave... They will want maps... Do not give any German anything. and your bicycles. Hide your maps. See that the To British leaders, the German plan and they're next on the list: is a plan - perhaps built up over years - all has the honour to be [Germany's] But Adolf Hitler has no plan for defeating envisioned an invasion in East Anglia but early July, Hitler tells his generals "[Hitler] astonished us by speaking with that all he wanted from Britain was that she Continent... He concluded by saying that his that she would regard as compatible But on July 16, with RAF bombers now Hitler orders preparations for Operation "Since England, in spite of her hopeless military to an understanding, I have decided to prepare if necessary, to carry it out." (Trevor-Roper) to develop a plan, but all three have The army favours a surprise invasion across a A tactical analysis expects the operation in which aggressive spirit prevails: in the manner of an "attack across a river", but jumping-off shore... "Alle Fuhrer gehoren nach to be in front. Their example decides." (OKH) They don't have the transport to move 40 to focus resources and evade the more powerful "I utterly reject the Navy's proposal. I regard the proposal as complete suicide. I might the sausage machine!" (Grinnell-Milne 61) force is scaled down to 13 divisions locations isolated from the Royal Navy German forces would secure a line from another force would land in Dorset and push to 260,000 German troops, they would push to a new Planners expect that threatening the capital The plan has many flaws. Surprise is impossible which means invading forces will land at different waves means defenders and the Royal Navy could Germany has no marine infantry, little experience equipment - especially landing craft. development, but the Kriegsmarine requisitions to make up a deficit of 1.35 million tons in to make it across the Channel, while many Aside from a weak plan and lack of shipping, another obstacle is the Royal Air Force. So to achieve air superiority over southern England The RAF is battered after the Battle of France. and 950 aircraft over France. The Luftwaffe with 1,400 aircraft lost. Most Luftwaffe while most RAF losses were fighters vital for the Dowding resisted calls to send more RAF Fighter but average experience level is low. To set the stage for any invasion, the Luftwaffe During the ensuring battle, both sides quickly dive bombers (Ju-87), biplanes (Gloster Gladiator) the highest RAF crew losses during the battle was Yet, the battle for air superiority would the Spitfires, the Hurricanes and the Bf-109s. Spitfire vs Bf-109 -- which was superior? Well, with almost equal performance -- they had short and were technologically sophisticated a better initial dive and direct fuel injection was better in sustained turns but it did lack Then there was of course pilot skill and tactics. France, the Luftwaffe pilots on the whole attacking from above and operated in pairs or And as such, they actually used the same see in use today with modern air forces. 'vic' formation, the standard of the time. and following the leader. This made the formation respond to sudden threats . At first Fighter changes and tactical reforms as retraining takes some squadrons started to modify Yet three important elements First, we of course have geography. German combat time over Britain. By contrast, British an hour later after being refueled and rearmed. over friendly territory and could thus take up the German pilots who were captured. Now radar or the Chain Home Radar system could crossed the channel, giving the RAF ample of the first sophisticated integrated air defense ground observers and the filter rooms, that information to the anti-aircraft batteries as well the Luftwaffe could not attack in surprise. it was not designed for. While it certainly airpower -- this was very much entrenched in had been created mainly for continental operations it was fighting a battle that probably In July 1940, the Battle of France makes way approximately 2,200 immediately serviceable in Luftflotten 2 and 3 across the Channel, against roughly 640 combat-ready aircraft, mostly Fighter Command Groups. The brunt of the attack is New Zealander Air vice-marshal Keith Park, with From mid July to August 12, the Luftwaffe Fighting over the English Channel, they aim to dangerous dogfights over water. These early on aerial combat , like the idea aircraft equipped British Boulton Paul Defiants, German Stukas, and Luftwaffe losses outnumber RAF losses, Luftwaffe raids plane-for-plane without British convoys stop using the Channel and It appears Goring has won the opening phase. pilots every week, including from the and the RAF Volunteer Reserve. But pilot have as little as nine hours flight time in an In phase two of the battle, the Luftwaffe and aircraft factories . The Luftwaffe does knock confirm damage and they don't target the stations As fighting moves over southern England, challenge Luftwaffe bombers and disrupt raids. on its last legs, and Goring plans a knockout blow From August 13-19, the Luftwaffe launch mass peaking on August 15 with 1,800 sorties. The daily dogfights as casualties mount on combat is often short and sharp: curving downwards and giving the impression looked for another target and... a Hun passed raised the nose... and at about seventy-five seconds the steady rhythm of the Hurricane's series of feeble clicks [...] A quick glance in the flicked the Hurricane on its side... skidding and The Luftwaffe damages several airbases and damage, and the Germans rarely launch follow-up 210, has success using Bf-110s in a ground change. Most Bf-110s remain as vulnerable heavy "Had all the [Bf-110] crews been retrained in the way that Erprobungs[gruppe] 210 weapon in his hands." (Wehner 224) failings. The Luftwaffe loses around bases , and they mistakenly assume all On August 15, a poorly-escorted force of Heinkel England, anticipating few defensive fighters . it, and destroy almost 20% of the raiders. 363 aircraft, mostly bombers, destroyed or The British are downing German planes, but almost first time, losses are higher than replacements. The Luftwaffe, though, is also exhausted. Pilot "Although most of us were still not outwardly becoming more frequent, tempers frayed flying was beginning to show." (Holland) tactics. They use feints to confuse British better understands the RAF sector system, daily . Squadron Leader Deacon Elliot recalls: than the Germans bombed the airfield - this place was a terrible shambles. Twenty-nine killed The RAF still has more pilots than planes, but 1000 by end of August . Czechoslovakian and Polish Dowding's concerns about language problems. and tension between commanders. No. 12 with the support of fighter ace Douglas Bader, effective at countering bombers than Dowding preserve strength. But Park argues such especially in No. 11 Group which often only has by No. 12 Group are mostly unsuccessful, but a point of contention between RAF commanders Meanwhile, in German-occupied ports, the British commanders announce 'Cromwell' - the decision is informed by other events. The same bases to hitting London. Some claim the an RAF raid on Berlin - which was retaliation London . Others think Goring hopes to provoke British morale before an amphibious landing. RAF. Attacks on RAF bases slow down, and the infrastructure to replace them recovers. "On the late evening of 7 September I flew the East End of London and the Thames though I felt very angry, I said "Thank God", had at last switched their attacks from my The battle peaks again on September 15, with bombers and more than 300 Bf-109s clashing in closer escort roles, robbing them of their raids cost the Luftwaffe 80 planes, including 23 postpones the invasion of Britain indefinitely. but German bombers transition to safer, less Dowding considers the Battle of Britain over. 1,500 aircraft damaged or destroyed. Luftwaffe with almost 2,800 aircraft destroyed or whose larger crews account for the higher casualty The Luftwaffe's defeat has multiple causes, and tactical disadvantages for Luftwaffe pilots fighting a battle for which it was not designed. on strategic bombardment, but financial in the German military, resulted in an ground operations with light and dive the offensive punch to operate unilaterally. similar to naval combat prioritised more expensive therefore lacked the capacity to produce enough aerial combat . Historian Jens Wehner concludes: like bombers or Zerstorer into battle. The remained almost inconsequential. Luftwaffe leadership would have to abandon their because the German victories of 1939/40 obscured On a strategic level, Luftwaffe commanders task at hand . Whereas in combined air-ground target close to the frontline once, during needed to be hit regularly and deliberately . the damage caused was often temporary. had been developed to counter the threat of Neville Chamberlain deserves some credit single-seat fighters like the Spitfire - partly Churchill - favoured bombers or heavy fighters. the sophisticated system which underpinned John Ray reminds us of the RAF's readiness: the former was better prepared and the latter less It's often said that victory in the battle likely defeat, but this is disputed. Well, it's impossible to say exactly what Battle of Britain. Some historians argue that they could have likely achieved their unclear if Britain would have surrendered. September would not have guaranteed a landing. months where tides were adequate, meaning the maintaining air superiority over England until the beyond Luftwaffe range, that would be difficult. significant threat. With few torpedo bombers, it's the air. With the Kriegsmarine still recovering it was unprepared for battle with the Royal Navy swept mine barriers within days, allowing the sea routes. They would have lost ships in a Sealion would have far outweighed losses. hoped to transport around 100,000 men in the first Operation Overlord, though the Allies needed 4,000 By 1944, the allies had the benefit of experience France, the Mediterranean, and Pacific. In German inter-service cooperation - vital by rivalries, and Hitler's preference It's also likely some commanders doubted to criticise Hitler's Directive, as "When the time came for the final decision, despite his knowledge of the weighty matters at All, however, were inwardly relieved to be able to which would openly justify them in abandoning Also, even if Germany could invade, would they guaranteed to be short or easy - would be a Hitler was shifting his attention east . From a necessary prerequisite for invading the Soviet Hitler is already making plans against the Directive No. 16, Directive No. 21 is direct: crush Soviet Russia in a quick campaign conclusion of the war against England. employ all available units..." (Trevor-Roper) and with Hitler's obsession with the Soviet Union Germany will soon find itself fighting the The Battle, especially in Britain, Few' - a handful of fighter pilots against leaves out the roles of bomber crews, coastal plotters, ground and repair crew, anti-aircraft If you want to learn more about these people on their strategic interception system, you should by Real Engineering. Using state of the art 3d series is deep dive into often overlooked aspects the massive logistical effort behind the Second why it succeeded where Operation Sea Lion never Engineering's Logistics of D-Day series. And where of D-Day? On Nebula, a streaming service and where we don't have to worry about YouTube's Nebula you can watch exclusive content like or our WW2 documentary series 16 Days in available in 4k resolution and also can be sign up at nebula.tv/realtimehistory you can get we and other creators also upload our than on YouTube, so you could dive into the Spitfire on Nebula too. Again, that's nebula.tv/realtimehistory for just As usual you can find all our sources in the out our video on the Battle of France if you Battle of Britain. If you are watching this for the support. I am Jesse Alexander and the only history channel that's stockpiling