15 minutes of chaos that shook the world's biggest markets. What the heck is going on down here? I don't know. There is fear. This is capitulation really. On May 6th 2010, without warning, the U.S. stock market and It can't be there. That is not a real price. The flash crash, which wiped a trillion of American companies in five minutes. To look at a price chart, it looked like a kind of runaway elevator. It took authorities five years guys to track allegedly involved in a 2010 flash crash. Navinder Singh Sarao, dubbed the hound of Hounslow has been accused of U.S. regulators claim he So Navinder Sarao he seems to be for all like a sort of arch criminal mastermind. What they find is very different. We're in a working class neighborhood about 11 miles from the city center and the financial district. It was hard to believe somebody trading this size But that's where we were. I think it's ridiculous in this house in the Took down the market? It's ridiculous. If he really did, as the make 40 million bucks, three people have now said to me, &quot;Well, then why the heck is he On the one hand, he was a kind of common cheat. He purposefully manipulated the markets. On the other hand, he's this kind of genius kid from the wrong side of the tracks, who just decided to almost at the man and the establishment. And I think everyone could kind of relate to wanting to do that. I'm Liam Vaughan. I'm an investigative journalist and I'm the author of a which tells the story And Navinder Singh Sarao the British day trader who was accused by the U.S. government of causing it from his bedroom. So Navinder Sarao was in a lot of ways quite an ordinary kid from underneath the Heathrow flight path. Had a bit of a gob on him was always very kind of but also a little bit He had this gift for multiplication and for rapid thinking and for arithmetic. After university, he opens a newspaper and and there's an advert in there which says &quot;Wanted, Futures Traders. &quot;Must work well under pressure.&quot; Which, as you can imagine is not how they typically But this was a job at entities that were known as arcades at that point in time. All the learning takes among some of the best traders in Europe. Essentially you eat what you kill. And that's something really powerful when you're seeking a career where you make your decisions and profit on those on So Futex is above Waitrose Supermarket. It's about 45 minutes outside miles away from the and Canary Wharf. And at first it's a fairly shabby office, which has got connections to the world's commodities exchanges. Now Nav had this kind of He was incredibly focused and gifted at games like Halo and FIFA. And he was able to, he found sit for hours and hours at a time just focusing on one task Fast forward a couple is almost like a kind of He has decided that he of his colleagues chatting getting very excited with market moves. So he moves himself to a desk, completely isolated, where he can work on his own. He buys himself a pair of ear defenders. They're not headphones, they're literally ear defenders of the type that road workers use. So to the other traders there, lots of them wannabe traders he was almost like a god-like figure. Because they would see how the size of the trades And it was just a how he was able to do it. So Nav traded a financial which essentially tracks the S&amp;P 500, which is a barometer essentially And he's able to build a sense, based on his and he's almost kind of preternatural ability to determine whether he thinks the market based on what's happening and the orders that are Nav leaves Feutex in 2008 in the midst of the The banking sector bore with shares in Europe's major banks tanking by as much as 9%. By that stage, he's in his late 20s and he's already accumulated Lehman Brothers has just collapsed. I don't think anyone really expected a bank as big as Lehman to be in a position that it's in now. The entire global financial We're in the midst of a and the Federal Government is responding with decisive action. There's governments around the world stepping into save financial institutions. And this is Nav's, I guess, first very big and successful trade, almost career-defining trade. He decides that with market eventually the government and rescue them. So he places all of his money, which at that stage is a on this bet that the and prices will rise again. And he times it absolutely perfectly. He places a trade on a Friday. The following Monday, the U.S. government Under our proposal, the Federal Government taxpayer dollars on the line to purchase troubled assets that are clogging the financial system. And over the course of that week U.S. prices increased by 19%. Nav had ridden the wave, the entire wave, and he goes from a position of $2 million to suddenly being worth $15 million. And really that's when One of the striking things about Navinder, is that he really doesn't spend any of the money he makes at all. He kinda makes a decision early on that he doesn't wanna tell about the money. He doesn't want to be seen as a show off, and he doesn't want them So rather than actually spending the money or telling other people about it he just keeps it to himself. And he lets the dollars grow You would have thought at the money that he's made and his position and how successful he is but there's something that's And that is the arrival in the markets of this kind of new breed of participant that are known as high frequency traders. So what is high frequency trading? Well, high frequency trading is where the markets have evolved to. So people have written rules in a human being's And they trade at very high because the computers and allow them to. They buy just before other people do and then resell them at a small increase pocketing the tiny profit. So what's happening is a kind of skim. People are getting Well, for Nav he wasn't so interested in the kind of equality of the markets. He was more frustrated that his profits and his ability to kind of make money was getting squashed by these robots. We have executed 21 Wow and we are not even three minutes in. So in 2009, 2010, he makes this kind of fateful decision that he's gonna build his own robot that's gonna fight back and what he was planning to do was to essentially manipulate the market. And after a few, I it starts to work incredibly well. From his bedroom, he's able to routinely nudge the world's second largest Futures market. He could quite easily make half In the week before the flash crash, on one day he made $400,000. The next day he made $800,000. And if you can imagine his parent's house is worth $300,000 and he's making three times Welcome to Street Signs on a big afternoon as stocks accelerate their slide. May 6, 2010 is an extremely volatile day. There is a feeling that and bankers have lost There's this index known as the 'fear index' in financial markets, which kind of monitors volatility. And that morning it was up 30% and Navinder starts to use his machines to pump sell orders and a very, very volatile market. For Nav, you know, if you can imagine a big wave surfer and he looks out at the swell and there's just huge waves. It's like the dream. It's like a once in a year long condition. He switches his computer on at half past nine in the morning, and he starts pumping these sell orders using his algorithm into the market. In the afternoon he gets to a point where he's placing $200 million of orders, and he's having this huge success. At 1:40 PM, exactly, it's not clear exactly why, maybe his mom had called it's seven o'clock in London, Nav decides to switch the computer off. Great day's work. He's made $950,000. Completely wiped out. Now exactly one minute after that is when the market starts that it never has before. Traders say this is the craziest day they have ever seen. Nav is essentially a bystander as the bottom falls out of the market. And we have this, you which comes to be known The flash crash, which wiped a trillion dollars off the value of American The biggest sudden fall on record before markets bounced right back. Officials are meeting this week with executives from the New to see if the issue of having different rules played a role in Over the next couple of months there is a very deep dive into exactly what was going on that day, who was trading, and trying to get to the bottom of this really what was a mystery The U.S. regulators a few months later produced this very detailed report in which they discuss what happened. No where to be seen in was any reference to manipulation and certainly no reference to a guy in his bedroom in Hounslow. So Navinder, as you can imagine, is completely oblivious to and you know, he only becomes after the flash crash. At this point in time, you start to have the exchange and the regulators almost noticing that he's canceling a lot of orders, and famously at one point in time he gets a letter from the exchange asking him to essentially and he tells them &quot;To kiss my ass&quot;. Ultimately, it wouldn't be the regulators that would catch Nav. It will be someone more like him, another day trader who was operating, not out of his bedroom, but in a small firm in Chicago, who was back testing his own software and happened to notice that there were all these that were entering and And he blows the whistle and the information arrives at the CFTC. The CFTC at that point in time has spent years really being a regulator for agricultural markets. To understand and to be able to analyze what's going on in financial markets at a kind of granular level And at that point in time, there's only a few people at the CFTC who've got that expertise, one of them is Jessica Harris. Can I get like an No? The data sets that we showed he would place and modify those orders several, sometimes thousands of times, or hundreds of times before then canceling them and not getting hit. So effectively, U.S. prosecutors was engaged in illegal trading. They say that he was doing something called spoof and layering. Basically, traders will flood the market with the intention of then - with orders of a certain security, with the intention of then And what that does is it artificially drives the price of that So after a year or so, the CFTC starts to become comfortable that they've identified and massive scale manipulation. And so what they do at that point is they decide to get involved They're the ones that They're the ones that can subpoena you. They're the ones that knocking on your door. So in February of 2015, a judge signs an arrest warrant for Nav. And at that point essentially he just doesn't know it yet. So it's the morning of the arrest and half a dozen police officers, two prosecutors from the and two agents from the FBI rendezvous at a McDonald's which is about a mile from his house. And they discuss how they're gonna arrest this criminal mastermind. As the sun rises that morning, they creeped through and arrive at this address, where sleeping upstairs They knock on the door He shouts upstairs and down the stairs, kind of pads, this guy in tracksuit his hair askew, looking utterly confused. As he's led out of the house in handcuffs, he turns to one of the officers and says, &quot;Can I run there's a football match on And the officer says, &quot;I don't think you're gonna get a chance to watch that for a while son.&quot; You know, as it turned out, he wouldn't set foot in the Pretty hard for people to get their heads around. This is a real working class neighborhood. Excuse me sir, is the family making any comments today? I'm very surprised. You know what I mean? I've lived here all my life, and I know a lot of the Everyone gets on, you know. Very, very nice His dad is probably not feeling well from quite a long time, so. So a lot of people in the markets and particularly people like him that were on the outskirts, that were day traders, they almost idolized this guy who had made a fortune from nothing and had found a way to fight back against a system in which, you know, the most well-funded are the most successful. And for guys like, you it was almost impossible to be profitable. Ryan Chilcote sat down with a former boss of the alleged flash crash It can go one of two ways. If he's found innocence then he will be the The British trader accused of helping cause the May 2010 flash crash spent last night in jail. They threw the book at him. There was 22 criminal counts against him, which had a cumulative total And the judge looks at and sets bail at 5 million pounds. And, you know, for Nav, who's worth tens of millions of pounds, that should be fairly easy to get hold of. What's unclear to me is And such a great trader, I'm assuming he probably just lying around. Yeah. So everybody's asking that question because he was granted but he has failed to post the seven and a half million dollars. So now he's still in the clink. His lawyers start getting in touch with his various investment advisors who taken Nav's money over the years and suddenly they don't answer his calls and it becomes clear, disturbingly over time, that all the money that Nav's put aside, all the profits that he's made over his successful trading career, may not be safe after all. Has he been scammed out of $50 million? It looks that way Mark, yes. I mean, it's one of those stories that it's almost a too crazy to believe. Any anyone that offered Some of the places that he put his money offered him risk-free returns. And he seems to have you know, very kind of Nav on the one hand is this kind of brilliant, on the other he's a kind of naive kid who's never worked at a bank, has no commercial experience. And, you know, for want of a better word has been duped by these guys. The bulk of his money was with this entrepreneurial called Jesus who turned around and said, &quot;Mea culpa, I lost it all. You know, I'll give it And in the end, the judge So his parents have to put and he gets let out. The British trader accused of helping cause the May 2010 flash crash is free on seven and a The judge in the U.K. decided that he should be extradited to the U.S. to stand trial. And what happens next is that his lawyer, who used to work at the as a prosecutor, flies to Washington and And he speaks to the prosecutors and he says, &quot;Yes, you could go to trial, but there's a risk that you could lose. And Navinder is a very vulnerable guy. Maybe the jury would feel sorry for him. Why don't we strike a deal?&quot; You know, we saw this guy who, you know, initially, we believed to based on his tradings activity and the size and the to somebody who evolved into just, you know, a lone trader or an individual trading out of his house who didn't spend any money. And it was, I think, difficult to see what I'd say the DOJ, you know, weighs it up and And then he pleads guilty. By the time it came to you have the U.S. authorities having a very different perception of him. On the one hand, he He opened their eyes to He helped them build a number of cases. You know, he was about as useful a witness as you can imagine. But beyond that, he was also so far removed from the archetypal By this stage, he'd been diagnosed with which kind of provided a useful reason for a lot of his actions. You know, he's, kind of the way that he's treated the authorities. So by that stage, the U.S. authorities wrote where essentially they said, listen, he's had enough punishment. He's been incredibly helpful to us. We recommend that we let with time served. And that's quite a remarkable thing for the U.S.. government to say. And I think if you take you know, the fact that all of his money, you know, I believe that the government made the right decision. So the judge in the end sentences Nav to a year of house arrest. You know, there was a great because that's where he got And obviously, as ever, because within a couple of months, because of the pandemic, we were all in lock down anymore. I traced Nav's finances very closely. And over the course of his trading career he made in the region of $70 million. I would like to say that the is that Nav squirreled away a few million, and that, you know, when he'll go to a desert island somewhere but sadly, you know, having I don't believe that's true. Nav is penniless. And to be honest with you I don't think its made much He still cycles around He still plays football He still gets a Filet-O-Fish So for Nav, because the hasn't changed his life too much.