are you living out here now? You're. Oh, I'm living nowhere. Living? I'm a nomad, Dave. You know what's funny I don't have an actual residence. My sole living. I didn't spend enough time in it. I don't need it. Is there anything they didn't didn't Oh, for the sake of, you know, like, for me, Like, back in the day. Oh, they stole everything. All my clothes, And then my friends, we were all. Then we're like, The house got up. We're going to everyone's room And then my friend was like, Well, And I was like, yeah. Insult to injury. Ouch. And this is what now with Trevor Noah. Welcome to the podcast. I'm thank you, Gabriel Iglesias. Every time I, I'm going to have I know personally and intimately. I have to think about how I would I think you just did it. Yeah, I think there's two things that I. That I honed in on in this conversation, particularly, obviously the comedy and the life And just, you know, you know, how But but that there's two big things that I haven't heard One is mentorship. And the other one is business acumen. And I mean raw business acumen. But maybe I'll give a bit of and you're going to have to fill for how we met. First of all, you know, so what the hell is acumen? Acumen is good. Give me. Give me haven away. It's almost sounds like Spanish. I have an idea of what it means. Como se dice? Acumen. You. I commend you, man. You have. You have a knack. Come on, man. I like how did we meet? I actually don't know How did we. Well, I remember vividly Yeah. And at the end of the night, and I'm flipping through, And I came across the Tonight And I saw Jay, that funny comedian You know, when you came out there, who is this person? They are freaking amazing. You so talented. You're you're charisma, your energy, I'm like, this dude is hysterical. Thank you. I'm like, clearly he is way too comfortable, I'm like, no, this dude is like, Yeah. Yeah. It caught my attention right away. How, the level And so I went online to see where and I saw that you were going to be And I'm like, oh, my God. You know, I was, you know, I lived And so I said, And so then I went out there with all these South Africans these white girls And they're like, And I'm like, Of course he's famous. I knew it. He showed up there And so I saw your show the full hour, And so afterwards, that's And you had your you had your little, South African posse And I just walked up and you're like, And I said, so Okay. So, so from my perspective, By the way, your whole story is the exact same story as many of my It's amazing how they intentionally And then we waited. I saw you on, And I was like, And then I researched you online and I was like, And I came. Then I was, oh my God. I waited for And there you were. There you were. but I so from my perspective, first of all, I was on stage. Irvine, where I was able to get people to buy enough tickets Nobody knew me in America. Nobody. And. And so I do the show. And at the end, they go, hey, wants to chat to you. I'm like, it's not the singer. they're like, I'm like, I'm like, Who's Gabriel? Because I'm terrible with names. And as soon as I see you, I'm like, And you must remember for me, it's so weird because I obviously We don't bump into people you've seen on like any competition I knew you, I was like, So I come over to you and it's funny, because you were with like, It was sort of like a little Mexican Because you give off, like, I'm like, I don't know if you've ever You have like, a You have like a kind vibe. No no no no no no no But it's because there's an It's an understanding. It's like, yo, you know, You've got like this you has like a really peaceful And so, you waited for me afterwards and you're like, And I remember how kind you were. And I was just like, I can't believe, you know, I think is deeply grateful and feel seen when another comedian I remember I was shocked, like, And you're like, I came to the show you didn't, like, ask me for tickets, And then you said the sweetest thing You said, hey, man, I know that But I wanted to. I wanted to offer you an opportunity. I want you to And you said. And you said, I'm not saying you should be I'm not saying any of that. I know you big in South Africa, but I really think it would be good to come out on the road with me, to audiences who you would have and who I think will love you, I think a lot of people in my And I remember thinking to myself, Do you know, I mean, I said yes to you. I didn't I came on the road with you and I was like, But when I say fans, I don't mean. I don't mean I don't mean I mean fans. And that's maybe, you know, my first question about, what do you think you did right to build an environment you don't just have people who like, You have people who by your face, the little dolls that have the bobble you have people and you have people But I want to know if you intended And then also, how did you even begin Because there was some point But now when you're filling up what what happened in between? Where did this where did this begin? I think it was, you know, to say that I had a plan to design sounds like maniacal and evil, No, I it was one of those things that people would come to the shows. Yeah. And I would always thank them. And I would always say, tell somebody about it, you know, that's You guys, if you enjoy what I wear, please share, please talk about it. And then after the shows And if anybody wants to come by so that people knew that Yeah, yeah. I wasn't putting this divide no, my show's over now. You go home, I take a check By not making people ever feel like I was above them I'm this lucky kid from the same area I'm like, hey, You know, I'm the guy where I'm like, hey, if you see me in a line and you like my show, let me cut. And they're like, I'm somebody And I get people always asking, And I'm like, yeah, So to say it was a plan It was just it was just me, welcoming the audience And it wasn't until years later where you had to start putting things in place Because I came really close I now to save the jokes. but yeah, people would just I know there's People are like, But, Yeah, well, it wasn't a plan. It was just, you know, let me just the way I feel like Like when I go to a concert, I look to see how the artist There's some, like, singers Yeah, and they want to go. Yeah. Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for being here. Yeah. It's great. I got so-and-so on drums. We were talking about being here Little things like that goes so far, that wall. They're afraid of engaging and I think that's a mistake. I think a lot of artists would go so Then all it takes is looking at someone smiling, I do it too. smiley. Recognize smiley. but you. I think it is excellent. You know, it's a fear. And not not necessarily a bad fear. I. I don't take for granted that I think there are performers who are trying to get into themselves, who are trying Do you know what I mean? I've seen this So there are some performers for them to hit the marks they can't be themselves. They can't be Gabriel, and they don't So they've got to transform Like, who can't go on stage Yeah, yeah, Yeah. You know, but I think it's. I think it's a protection thing If you don't laugh then Gabriel has failed. But if it's like El Matador and then the joke doesn't land well, Do you know what I mean? It's the protection. And you, that that that really is unique, Like where Like what were your first experiences that allowed you I think the fact and I've been used to not it's just been one of those like, the kid that didn't have I was always overweight, I always I had really bad teeth, who was not accepted, I was always, you know, anytime I wouldn't even get picked for group. So it's like, really, I can't you this has nothing to do with know And I can't even get picked or get picked for this or that. So it's like but I was drawn to comedy. I loved watching Eddie Murphy. I loved watching Saturday Night Live. I loved hearing the laughter because to me Yeah. The one thing I, I've realized I was I was like awkward And I don't know, like, You are very affable now, as well? I feel like I was very much when you've seen me off stage, not the loudest person in the room, Nor am I trying to be So as a kid, I think that I just to connect with people, okay? I'm not someone who goes out of their I would rather just see that to join a conversation but I'm not trying So if that was awkward, Yeah, I wasn't outspoken. But, as far as socially, talking to me, it's like, You know what I mean? And so I still have that remember me from back then, and I value and I cherish them man, that's my only, like, grounding, Yeah, you know what I mean. And so any time I have a question am I act in a certain way or is my view on this messed up and they're not afraid to tell me And I think it's important to have Okay, but then what do you You know, I think it's Sharing a bathroom. And. Fuck that. but you know what I mean. There are some things we hold from the past that, People will say you just the way And I always go, what? What is the way I've always been What is the change that you wish Some things are good to hold on to. And some things are good to change. Are there things that you don't do when you were younger I don't think that I've changed I definitely would want to let go the small like, oh, it's it's the you know, thinking globally. Right. So I was very much and I didn't have the ability to see Whereas now it's like it's endless, you know, or keep it as small as you want. But the problem is, the bigger the more difficult it is to manage. And having control over yourself and It is really hard Yeah, and unfortunately for me, at one point where I did start and the wheels were turning and Right. And so it's kind of like, all right, you know, Well, You really made There who have the footprint with your comedy, with your, with the way you've made people feel, So I've been lucky enough to travel all over the world And I am always, at how many places I go to where they What's interesting is what they feel It's I want to know when you decide to take many of the things that ostracize you at a young age that made you bring people to you You know, like so many people grew up their weight, their vibe, Very few people have taken into a diamond and shared it Was there like a conscious moment and how did you ensure was laughing with you and not at you? I want to say about four years into it, beginning, when I first started doing I was just doing characters a situation with cartoons or, So it's like it was like, he's entertaining. He can do all these characters effects and he's You don't really know anything Yeah. And I remember I did a Comedy and I did a bit and how I only wanted to dance because if I'm dancing with a big girl, then we would get tired And I remember it was the first bit where it's like, wow, Yeah. You know, and for some reason, like it just and then it just started expanding But you know, of course there's, there's, and then there's just like, And either or you're not cool with it, Yeah. You know, and so, I don't know, I don't care, You know, I've already gone You can't faze me now. So it's like, And then the more the more shows And afterwards it's like, okay, well, if I'm this big joke and people why would you want to talk to me Why would you want to get in line I'm wearing freaking New Balance I got a hoodie that I'm wearing. It's not fashionable, It fits, you know, by and not letting the business that I think I did have to work on, really quick. I wish I could make everybody happy, but I just think it's and they relate to Someone who's not trying to We're right after this short break. And what of the business I want Oh, dude, man. Well, All right, everybody who goes from having a certain amount the money quadruples and you're like, So of course, for me, out I went from living and I was still Yeah, I had two Hummers while coming Different colors. But I was living in an apartment. Oh, man. Yeah. So I just started doing stuff putting TVs and PlayStations in the car, and I'm like, But at the time I'm like, Yeah, I was just so excited. I'd never seen money like that And so, yeah, I did a lot of a lot of stuff. But you know what So there are two things that I found Is that like one just about rolling with you on your tour The like the I mean, I would be having fights about Republican politics, I remember I realized that this was even like Because where I come from, there It isn't your Republican, We don't have that. And I always say to people, I always say to people, I think one of the worst things is that it's become Democrat, because it makes it that people where before they engage Whereas in South Africa we just fight about each topic and you find like people agree and people disagree but you find coalition And I love that. On your bus, for instance, You would just sit in the corner Yeah, and you were just like asked like a but you'd ask a question, you'd be Or you'd be like, but Rick, And it would spark But I do love that your environment And what I found you, as Gabriel have said, but you not once, Hey, Trevor, don't talk about certain And I mean, there's not even one time I said, hey, That thing No, you gave me the full leeway And maybe that goes into Anybody who asks me and thousands of people anywhere they go And I go, guys, I couldn't have gotten So I'm like, none of that would have Oh come on. No, no, no, I'm telling you, Because you genuinely was you put me in front of audiences otherwise And the still comedians today who don't go to the markets. You took me to places but I learned thanks to you, Do you know what I'm saying? Nobody comes and does a show. Nobody even considers them because they don't really shift They just like these forgotten places And you, you put me there. So let's talk a little bit You were mentoring me. You were teaching me You were teaching me about comedy, here's a story. The only time man, man, food. We're going to talk about food. Oh my God. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The the the only time you you told me something instructive where you said, I was doing a set and, we, You're on. You're going from And I have a whole host of men. You have a bunch of material, but I've been doing the same set And so at some point I was like, man, I've been doing the same jokes. Let me let me switch this thing up. And I had a great set. And I walk off stage and fluffy not angry, father or uncle, you know, hey, you're like, yo, And I'm like, what do you like? And I had this joke, you know, now mean and was, on Leno and I was a great joke yeah, I was like, And you're like, no, I was like, yeah, but it's fine. You're like, no, you need to let And I was like, no, I was like, And you looked at me. It was like a coach And you looked at me. You like Denzel was somebody And you looked at me and you were These people weren't with us the night before, You might be getting but they're not sick of them. You go out there and you do it like Those people deserve. I mean, you got there And I was like, I'm gonna look like an idiot. I've just got off stage. I'll do it tomorrow. They're like, yo, man, So he's going to come back on stage What is going on right now? And you were like, you go out there You give them their show. And then I came back on stage like, this is the most awkward experience No opening act has ever had an uncle. I'm willing to bet money, no opening act. And I went out and I did the joke, And I came back and you were like, So, like, talk me through this. Why do you have comedians who don't perform even, like, compliment your style of comedy surprise your audience? I thought you were funny. I thought you were very funny. And and the show. You added more to the show. You were so different. Whenever I put on shows, I don't just look at my performance, Are people going to enjoy it or are they just sitting there You know, so I did have a lot of I mean, at the time, Rick Gutierrez, Yeah, yeah. And then, of course, and then there Yeah. So I was already. Most comics only have one guy. Yeah. You know, maybe two. The only other person that I know that had more people on their show And I know this because I went to There's a lot there's a lot of people on the show, but, And, you know, it's funny that you brought up the not mean, but joke so much that your nickname, Yeah. So, Martin, when he told me today because I was going to bring him he goes, man, give, So even years later, that's Yeah. And all that. Yeah. So maybe the reason I'm asking is because I feel like where people are less likely and other human beings who aren't And here you have really well building an audience But then every time with another human being that you've built for that human Like what? Like why? Why are you doing I don't I don't Don't get me wrong, when I would get emails and they're like, hey, listen, but we didn't like what That's what I mean. Said yeah. And it's like, okay, I can see that. but for some reason, It's just And when I did, And I still haven't fully, And that was with Martin Martinez. Been on the road with me But I do remember that getting a lot of complaints just go out there, be you. Yeah. I had gotten a few emails and, talking to all the people around me, hey, man, look, And, you know, I had in the tour, and Martin went off and I missed him. I missed him, but I'm like, But if the way it just it didn't sit well with me. And, I felt I felt terrible for it. And I'm like, I should have just had a conversation with him just letting all the powers But, it was one of those things that everybody around me And if if they have a different idea you know, I don't want everybody That's boring. You know, and shake the room up a little bit, I can make a call back on it, you know, I like that I had Rick Gutierrez and, I, I just saw your set. What? You didn't do this. I'll call people out when they don't Clearly. And he goes, oh, man. I was just, you know, I don't want the fact that this and this and this, If I can't follow you, Oh, you go out there tomorrow all right? And let me worry about following you. You putting on a kickass show I don't want to be lazy You going out there and killing Because now I have to perform better than I'm, Because it just. It makes you better. It's a it inspired me. I mean, it's the reason I do my tours You know, I was thinking about how some of whenever people ask me about America what are your favorite memories I want to say eight out of ten of those memories I like, like and I've told jokes But like the woman in Lexington, Kentucky, and she was so sweet, she's like, I just want to let the funniest and handsomest nigger And I remember ever. But I had never experienced You know, you see America on TV, She was. And I know it's a strange thing who is not trying to be racist, thing, that she was just like, what? And what the best. You know what I do to tell the joke? It was delivered to me. It was my favorite was when Alfred yo, you can't say that. And then she's like, what? I didn't mean to offend y'all. And we were like, no, that's that's not the part of the sentence But I think of the memories I've had on the road with So this was in El Paso, Texas. Okay. You were the person who took me to I'm new in America. I'm on the tour bus with fluffy, and we get to this town was this really interesting place But it really felt like you were Do you know what I mean? It had like a had an interesting It is a border town. Yes, it is neighboring I remember I was trying to look This was this was years ago. We are talking the 2012. Yes. Yes, this is 2012. So I remember I'm using Google Maps. Google So I'm using Google Maps I'm like that's where people I'm like, all right, Foot Locker without even thinking. I leave the tour bus to a sleeping on and I just follow Google Maps, follow The more I'm walking, I'm like, wow, the people are getting more People are getting more And I'm like, all right, people And then Google tells me woke up on some like embankment but now there's this, this weird part where I'm essentially I'm going into a mall, But very quickly there's like a cage, So you you couldn't, like, Does this make sense? Okay, okay, so I'm walking coming towards us and a lot of people So now you, it's the inertia Then you're on a bridge and I'm walking, I'm walking, And I'm like, is that a river? What is happening right now? What? Like where is the small And then as I walk down the bridge, I see a sign Now my in my ignorant brain, walked across a border in my life. To me, borders happen and I'm just like, I'm Mexico. I'm like, what? So now I'm walking. I'm like, oh shit, no no no no no This is clearly wrong. So I turn around. I'm causing so much commotion a lot like there now He's like, So I'm like, no, no, no, I'm sorry. I'm going to I'm sorry I'm drunk. But yeah, I'm like, oh, And now they're pushing me Everyone's pissed off at me. I'm like trying to get to the And finally I like get down And he's like, I'm on the other end. I don't speak Spanish. Hey, man, I'm, I'm, And he's like, what? He's like, So I'm like, no, no, no, keep going. I'm like, I can't go to Mexico. I'm Gabriel Iglesias, And then he's like, what? Come on then. Then he's like, Then I was like, I don't, Then he's like, what? Then I'm like, no, not like that, I just don't have my passport I didn't think he's like, Then I'm like, When I go to footlocker. There's not a thing that I do, yo. We stood it for 15 minutes. I sat there begging this man Because it's one thing Something to be deported to. I'm not your country. And and then I. I'd never done this before, I pulled out my phone and I said, And now I'm typing my name into You better man, you better not mess I'm like Trevor Noah, I like hit it. And then my face comes up and then The Tonight Show And I was like, see, you see? And he looks at me, he's like, He's like, oh, he's like, Oh my God. He's like, Oh you didn't get I'm do What do you know fluffy? He's like, Then he's like, He's like, Oh my god. Oh fluffy. And this guy I will never forget. Yo I walked that. He's like, yeah. You like you shouldn't walk So I was going to Foot Locker. I did not know that And he let me come back to you. And I remember I was telling day and, you know, Alfred, classic, And he's like, I told you, man, I told you, man, they can see it. You might not see it, Man. You're Dominican bro. I was like, yo, that was the day And thank God for fluffy. Don't go anywhere What now? After this. And easily, easily you and I shared for me You would talk and if you made the mistake your fans would start to bring it You know, and one of the things you And so at all your shows, Gabe, it was like, and I can pictured backstage you can imagine would be waiting And I remember I joined the tour, I felt like the African whereas like, I was like because I'm not even lying. When I grew up, cake was a thing I think it still is. Cake is not. You don't just bump into cakes every day we were on tour, there's We had like we had a cake table would constantly bring my cousin's cake Do you remember the cake? I've gotten a lot of penis cakes. I'm sorry. Yo, that penis cake was one of the best cakes I remember nobody wanted a cake I was like, oh, Come on, get your head out There's dick cake. Here we go. No, Come on. That doesn't. That doesn't hold the eggs. Don't blend with it. Well, No. Someone bought a cake Giant giant penis. Right. And I remember And I had become the de Nine out of ten cakes And then that that dick cake came up and it was weird, And no matter what angle which which You're getting the balls on one side. You're you're getting the head on the other. And I remember, and you know, the show. is it cake? Yeah. This was the opposite. It was almost like, is a dick because it's like they didn't I was I guess it's a cake. They're like, I don't know, man. We can eat it. It doesn't matter what it looks like. They're like, I don't know, man. I was like, you're not eating dick, You can't eat dick with a spoon. And they were like, I don't know if I can. And so I was like, well, I'm going in and they're like, I mean, I was like, I'm eating like, you're not eating The damn, he didn't have a dick. You guys? And I ate it I was like, yo, you guys And everyone You just want to, you want to. And I'll never forget. There's a moment where we were all gathered around and we were just all like, man, This is some good ass. This is the best. Easily some of my favorite memories. But what it what everybody wants to know Did you start with the head, I don't even know where I. I just went in. I'm. I still trying to find that I'm trying to find it. But but this triggered that I've always wondered about. Sort of what you said I always wanted to know, and how you moved through this. There was a time when, you know, you went to the doctors and you can't be eating You know, You know, your heart, the audience these stories you like. Yeah, And you started boxing. You started losing weight. And I'll never forget this threw me off as a human being There was some fans of yours who were Yeah, they were like, Yeah, yeah. It's like, hey, Maybe, I don't know. Yeah, but I did have some people that were getting upset the fluffy thing, you know, It's like, That is, you had to celebrate me. The fact that I'm trying But yeah, some people But I think it's a it's a valuable We take for granted how much the way we are makes people comfortable. And if we did to change that, how they feel in relation to us. Do you know what I mean? I always felt like that, that illuminated that we're still dealing with today And it's like, Because you have you actual you have which is why I ask you, is like, what did and then how you have to balance that while still maintaining relationships I value people's opinions, especially to come out and support I listen to people. I value their opinions. It's it's not a matter of opinion. I'm no longer young. I'm no longer a 20 year old kid. That can be 440 pounds. I'm almost 50. And if if I want to continue that, what's going to happen. Yeah. So in that situation that voice their opinion, well, you're not going to be fluffy I can't support you. Those are the people who is not something that's going to work Yeah, yeah. And again, if fans aren't and understand that I'm trying to do something not let me do something that's like, Now I'm doing something where my quality of life If they don't agree with that, I don't want them. I don't need them, and I have to be one all right, I'm sorry. The hard for you it is because you But I'm literally trying to make So if me killing myself then maybe I don't want to make And maybe And that is hard. But I know for the greater good You know, I'm not going to be fluffy. Maybe I'll be Buffy. I'll be something with a Y But, I need to. I need to be around. I mean, that's why I say you continuously like you I think this is something I go to, like, I'm sure people But when you're performance and unable to articulate it and don't deal with it publicly. But there's there's an idea, I'll deal with it If I do a show where I don't say sometimes you like, what? What the hell are you doing with everything You're just going to come out And I go, yeah, I sometimes I'm just making jokes. Do you see what happened on the news I'm like, no, I don't watch the news And they go like, oh, why not now? Because for my mental health I don't think for your mental health I don't think you should be It's not good for you. I don't know, I just feel like, Yeah. Yeah, It's not what we signed up for. And I'm constantly how you find a balance in life how people have seen you You know how, What do you make of the conversations like with Ozempic and everything? Like now and ozempic and all these things, You have an opinion on it as somebody who's, used Ozempic. And by the way, Ozempic approached me years ago Oh, wow. And they wanted me to be They wanted me to be the the oh, oh, in all the commercials, the know, me and my diabetes. I beat him So they they approached me But, you know, the, the powers from you, your time commitment Yeah, And I was like, okay. But in hindsight, And that's that stuff goes I probably could have came up, I used, ozempic for a while even with me out the gate I didn't change anything. And so I can see why Because it you do it'll Now I'm taking, Oh, yeah? Yeah. Yeah, it's the other one. Yeah, you got so much. It does it. It's not like No, no, no, you plateau. But it does regulate my sugar. So, for example, I wear a monitor. But there's one of those on the arm. What do you have? Like a A next is the one that does Continuous glucose monitoring. Oh yeah. Yeah I like every two weeks And of course you scan it at the supermarket and get it All right, that's And you know, you know, Yeah. I don't do the boxing thing you know, I'm Yeah, man, conversations about food it gives us and the support and the the reason I love food the way I do it reminds me of moments in my life Do you know what I mean? Man, there was never a moment and we had good food. And so food has to my brain that makes me feel safe. It makes me feel welcome. And I wondered, like, because we haven't spoken about it But if over the years that connection with food, and I would literally talk about it whatever, it would just be like, oh, And no. And I just wondered if you like if you've worked on that, or whatever, just like have you delved more into that space, Food for me has always been If I'm dealing with something you have that moment Like everything makes sense. Like for example, my favorite, is just a plain cheese And people go really? You could eat anywhere you want, but Few things that go, quesadilla makes me My mom would make me an idea, And that was just it. That's all I needed. I just needed a piece of cheese Fold it up. My mom would, And I was I was a happy camper. And so anytime I have a quesadilla, It feels safe. It feels it takes me back to a time and you were close to your mom. Hey, man, I'm that. As I say, Like. Like, figuratively and literally I don't know, how much value you gave to overweight where you didn't allow them as being slobs, just like a feeling of being seen. You know, I remember when you said to me I was making t shirts and I didn't even know And and then you said, like, and, and I was like, all right, I'm And then you were like, you know, where's And I was like, you're joking, right? And you're like, no, I'm not joking. You got to think about everybody. And I was like, well, But for X I wasn't even joke. But but to see the people's faces and it's where I think in society we like to impose a singular idea. So you want to go, well, if you But you taught me that humanity You made those people feel seen. You taught me to always try and see Just see them, and then hopefully by holding their hand, that takes you And so I guess that takes me everybody at the end of every episode Now, you know, Gabriel Iglesias has at the there are few, maybe none, who are going to sell out stadiums Like, you know what I mean? I'm still fighting with selling. Like as soon as an arena gets to like 15,000, it's like, Here we go. Oh, and you've done it now You've toured the world. And so I, I would love to know, like, Like what now? What do you, what do you hope to see yourself And don't limit it to Korea, like as a human being, Honestly, I think that it's it's time that I take care I've managed to be able to, achieve every goal I have ever set I've done everything I've wanted to I have failed myself by not, working better on maintaining, I've allowed myself to, you know, and I think that now it's it's okay for a little while. It's okay to take a little break You know, during Covid, I was because I couldn't get on stage But during that time, I actually a diabetes specialist because I was actually able and I lost And then as soon as I went And I'm like, wow, if I would have just kept this up I could have, you know, and I was and I, and by saying this to make myself accountable And if I think that if people know they'll be supportive of it. And again, if some people don't making myself better I don't need in my life anymore, I think they'll be with you. I think through Covid everyone has appreciated life I think they'll be with you, you they'll be with you as puffy, Scruffy. Yeah. And I hope, no matter what you do or don't do, Thank you. love. Always. Great game. Thanks for coming on, man. What now with Trevor in partnership with Day The show is executive Shahnaz Yamin and Jody AV. Again, Marina Hankie is our producer. Music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday