Five Nights at Freddy's: Security Breach in the popular Five Nights at Freddy's franchise, Fans eagerly waited for its release ever since in 2020, and rightfully so. Each and every game in the point-and-click what the fans love about the franchise in They're more than just scary, atmospheric They're well-designed and fascinating power The more you play the immersive FNaF games, challenging nights expect repeated plays and learn and master the game's systems that Even then, FNaF games present extra nights players know to expect a diluted horror experience and mastery. In addition, FNaF games typically introduce keep them fresh and to partly renew the horror In contrast to previous entries in the series, less challenging experience, abandoning key tense and atmospheric horror games. Security Breach never demands mastery or skill, From the overabundant, constant patrolling to the poorly designed save system and AI, an exercise in frustration. The AI is underdeveloped and an insubstantial The game relies on other gameplay systems and competence in the game. The bandages only amount to additional broken security bots and the teleporting animatronics. The broken and cheating AI, coupled with areas surpass, diminish whatever horror value the devolves into a glorified running simulator The most prominent fear in the game is the Security Breach holds an antagonistic expectation as much as possible because of the poorly Players experience frustration and diminished through the now predictable gameplay and already Security Breach desensitizes the player to shallow story and character development, the the decline of player vulnerability. Halfway through the game, Security Breach They negate threats as another bandage to and the number of threats overpacked into In the process, the blaster and camera trivialize and eliminate player vulnerability. This is detrimental for Security Breach because in horror games and Security Breach mostly Overall, Security Breach is filled with fundamental in a frustrating experience and a desentization Security Breach not only fails as a Five Nights game. Hi, this is Shawn Kays with Design Frame, And today, we're dissecting Security Breach's Security Breach was developed not by FNaF by Steel Wool Studios. Steel Wool is the studio behind the love letter FNaF game redesigned and developed for Virtual The studio's love for the franchise carried impressive attention to detail. Unfortunately, the clear love the studio holds of creators. Whether they invested too much time in creating was due to a lack of experience, Steel Wool Everything from gameplay systems to atmospheric content, and bugs. Most of Security Breach's problems stem game's bugs and glitches. It's one of the most buggy and broken games The game contains so many bugs that you can online, all containing mostly different bugs do not complete properly." This and many of the game's other bugs require the beginning. The overwhelming number of bugs and the unfinished feat. To help demonstrate the state of the game, of the compilations. In the beginning of the game, for your first door for him. For some reason it's entirely possible for to restart the game. The animatronics frequently break, and they will clip through doors. It's possible to reinitiate certain already compensate so it soft locks. The game's central open HUB area lends itself like this that can ruin a playthrough. This security bot either spawned in out of range. [Ryan] Okay. Get that. That's two out of three. Now we just got-- whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa Why'd he spawn in like that? You see the way he popped in? [Shawn] They'll cause the animatronics to the basic AI. Speaking of elevators, it's possible to The AI completely loses track of you when do this. Or Roxy will clip through the wall entirely. [Jack] She's barely even moving. Did she go through the wall? She went through the wall. [Shawn] And finally.... Not all of these bugs are game breaking, but The rest severely break the game's immersion. And this is only scratching the surface. Now to mention a couple more bugs that I guarantee When you slide the Voice Volume down to 0, completely break or are skipped over. [AstralSpiff] Freddy no longer chats with tells you his plan to escape, explains what the exception of movie-type cutscenes, which But that's not all. Any sequence that involves chat prior to an For example, after the Medbay, you'd normally die so he'd eject you. But with voice volume muted, the game jumps after you get inside of him. So for the whole walk you just have "low effect. [Shawn] I'm honestly just impressed that Volume to anything except the volume of voices. If you ever jump then enter Freddy, which entire game unloads. No walls, no enemies, nothing. You can walk to pretty much any part of the Security Breach is so broken that there exists where he beats the game backwards, completing As shocking and horrible as some of the bugs only unfinished. Most of the game's problems stem from fundamental bug patches. Regardless, it's important to understand accountable because the damage has already suffered through common immersion and game [Jack] Umm... excuse me...? [Shawn] Steel Wool Studios attempted but failed of FNaF's legacy or utilize them to their and camera surveillance. In past FNaF games, you survive from midnight for five nights. Each night, your chance of survival depends power level. Every action requires power, including closing surveying cameras through your Camera Monitor. You must constantly gather as much information cameras to minimize both risk and power usage. While gathering information, you have to constantly usage around time remaining. This creates suspense because you don't know Since the clock rounds down and doesn't show when you'll complete the challenge but tension The time and power management combined work mastery through power efficiency and a tightly moments, especially during close calls when are left to wait for the end in darkness; surviving at any given point so you can infer in. Security Breach maintains the same midnight goal, but contrary to the franchise's name, The clock still serves as general motivation progress bar showing how far you are in the At best, the clock occasionally pops up in to a percent completion statistic often found It's inoffensive but could amount to so Security Breach adapts to the new open-world limit system from a per-night basis to a per-hour After specific story events, the clock closes briefly falls to darkness, requiring you to to stay safe from Moondrop. The new hourly transitions are scripted sequences time tension from the previous games. Both the moments of darkness and Moondrop Moondrop is a lurking threat in the hourly net of Freddy and preys on our vulnerability. We can't ignore him by hopping in Freddy game. However, the hourly darkness and Moondrop Two main factors produce horror: the unknown The hourly sequences rely too much on the them over time and the horror of the unknown The open world allows a more unpredictable, absent from the game. The darkness should come about sporadically yet looming threat that players would be hard-pressed It would encourage players to always know areas and where recharge stations are. Moondrop's implementation breaks immersion He stands still for a moment, then crawls In a surprisingly common theme throughout [Jack] I'm pressing E. *Muffled, annoyed laughter* [Shawn] If he crawls into you however, game Deaths caused by Moondrop feel silly and contrived crush Moondrop's shrimpy little body in. [Mark] *Startled* Oo! Whoa! What? Uhh... Do I... Wha.. What do... WHOA WHOA! Wha.. what... what... But no but I... *Annoyed and frustrated* This was even before Why would you do that to me?! I have to put the eyes back in again! [Shawn] Security Breach's biggest source As long as he has power, you can climb in Moondrop). Freddy's power lasts long enough and recharge both dull and abusable when threats are a He's a free ticket to escape whenever a ride across a section densely populated with And even if you don't use Freddy, and because hide from animatronics for an indefinite amount a threat. Camera surveillance returns in Security Breach at any time. Despite the cameras being a crucial gameplay never use them in Security Breach except in There are two primary reasons for this. Firstly, accessing the cameras takes the player Every time you access the cameras, your positioning changed; therefore each time you pull the which cameras are both available and relevant Reorienting yourself never becomes easier and sets of cameras. The constant player reorientation results and doesn't encourage pursuing the already Secondly, the information the cameras provide your surroundings as Gregory. There are very few instances where you can that you couldn't gain in-person and then There are generally two exceptions. [AstralSpiff] If you ever get sick of hearing and decide to lower your Voice Volume all [Shawn] The first is for a specific security Although, of course, it's not only possible but you can run out of power and still succeed or crouch in a corner and disconnect your succeed. [Backseat Streams] Let's just try to stay He can't see me. My controller has literally just disconnected [Shawn] The second exception is when you view is nearby and you're hiding in a photo booth However, even if you're careful, hiding animatronics can spot you in the open from they're facing you, and even if you're hiding, sometimes they [Jack] Come on! I'm in there!!! Are you just stuck? *Sigh* That's so stupid. [Shawn] Despite the studio's failure to Breach, they still opened new storytelling a single night instead of five. Unfortunately it misses this opportunity. Security Breach doesn't develop its story, abused Scott Cawthon's careful consideration shallow mind control plot and degraded fan Security Breach begins with the security guard child named Gregory. The main threats of the game -- the animatronics strangely and helping Vanessa catch Gregory. Gregory's only ticket out of here is Freddy mind control took over the others. The game very deliberately establishes mysteries: why is Vanessa looking for him, and what's normally? Security Breach not only never follows up game in one of the endings, but it hardly [Roxy] Why are you hiding from me? [Mark] Honestly I have no idea. [Shawn] Perhaps the biggest offender is Vanessa/Vanny. Security Breach tells a simple story of a is trying to return to his parents. From the start, Gregory is suspicious of Vanessa, to the player. However, the mystery is artificial; it has The player isn't given any information on There's no logical reason for it, and later Gregory was genuine at the time because her So why should I care that Gregory is hiding Why should I not think Gregory just holds Because Vanessa is actually Vanny -- a silly Not only does the introduction of Vanny come are given no reason why Gregory is in danger Until the game finally revealed why or how place, we had no reason to feel empathy toward to engage in an artificial mystery. By the time we can justify why we're in already been compromised. Even a simple comment from Gregory to Freddy trying to take me to my parents because they're would've established some amount of credibility motivation. We then fear what Vanessa's motives truly mystery. If Gregory provided justification or motivation child," it wouldn't feel so weird that claim. Freddy determines Gregory wasn't a guest and a cause for concern, but he then forsakes by bypassing the security staff. Freddy then pursues other means of escorting a means to an end, but establishes Freddy a child's alleged claim. Overall from the beginning, Gregory's interaction in the engaging mystery and characters it's Unfortunately, Vanessa doesn't ever get appears in the game. Even once her Vanny persona comes out as what come across as the main villain until the absent. By the end we realize she's just a puppet Because of Vanny's lack of character presence unironically and shallowly exemplifies a red hare. Security Breach fails to cultivate a satisfying Much of the mystery dissolves due to Vanny's What's left of the mystery is underwhelming. When Vanessa locks Gregory in Lost and Found, introduced bunny called Vanny, during which to help us. While Vanessa's sudden absence could have and leave the player pondering Vanny's potential Vanny is soon becomes too obvious. We notice that the new bunny's name is Vanny that sounds like a nickname. Freddy then slaps us by saying explicitly and bunny. The blatant lack of subtlety is outright comical. Even for how little the mystery of Vanny's Security Breach distrusts the player's intelligence The lack of subtlety also results in the absence is, and consequently reduces the horror factor Vanny is Vanessa in a silly, skin-tight bunny It's not even the uncanny and creepy that and the reason Scott Cawthon developed FNaF Wearable animatronic suits exist in the FNaF try experimenting with that instead. Because Vanessa/Vanny are inconsequential, of the animatronics suddenly becoming hostile. Unfortunately the mystery falls back on ol' main antagonist of the franchise who has so He's back from the grave with newfound remote of the animatronics, security robots, and malfunctioned. First of all, the game never actually explains I presume it's because he was put in Safe flat. Once he comes out of Safe Mode, why is he It feels like another contrivance. Afton can take control of Freddy in the final controlling Freddy before now? And why didn't Security Breach use William's against us mid- or late-game after we install It's never explained. Secondly, mind control in media more often or an excuse to not develop characters. Mind control removes all agency, motive, and that's surprisingly present in Security swept under the rug by their lack of agency, mind control. Mind control in Security Breach isn't nearly established. Throughout the series, children's souls They embodied an animalistic nature and had In some cases, their agency was limited, yet were driven by their past events. These motives kept their souls bound to their While for the most part the animatronics' because the FNaF games were simple and streamlined. The simplicity of it allowed FNaF creator For example, in the very first FNaF game, every night to provide context and a legitimate you. Every night Phone Guy throws out theories, tries to interpret the animatronics' motives. While often helpful, his information can also These details are enough to drive FNaF 1's they serve as somewhat of a tutorial, explaining and a witty personality. For as simple as FNaF 1 is, it still gave killing you and the rest was competently left It never felt underdeveloped or arbitrary FNaF 5: Sister Location took a different approach Instead of remaining simple and relying on lifting, it developed an actual fleshed-out remaining faithful to the series but in a Both were effective approaches. Security Breach took on a bigger scope and similar to the approach FNaF: Sister Location took. Yet, Vanessa's motives fluctuate. Her actions don't always align with her motives This is a huge problem because if motives seems random. If the narrative seems random, one, I'm pulled danger seem up to the contrary whim of the game where fear is the result of consequences. Take for example, Vanessa's attempt to apprehend If Vanessa caught me, her character motivations me to security and keep me safe there. She tries to do just that when she captures the pretense that she's keeping him there She comes across as genuine because of what this narrative even after she captures him Additionally, why wouldn't she kill him intent? However, the game desperately wants you to beginning. The plot revolves around Gregory's oddly is "out to get" him. She alerts the hostile animatronics to search together. The game also tries to frame Vanessa as hostile plot insinuates, no matter how poorly, that Except despite these hostile actions, she arbitrarily captures you in a scripted fail This sort of duplicity in intentions might because, despite Vanessa's good intentions hostile or conveyed as hostile throughout or not to do her job. Her motives contradict her actions: if she If she wants to kill me, then why try to help? Her contradictory motives are ultimately a development, and, when all else fails, it plot. The game employs mind control when it suits Vanessa is sometimes hostile and sometimes She's sometimes Vanny but other times Vanessa. Chica, Roxy, and Monty are all susceptible it, except at the very end when he isn't. The story and characters almost never develop development is there is contrived and convenient. Which begs the question, what else is there? Whatever mysteries exist for the animatronics on with them" then those mysteries are forgotten There's no legitimately interesting or engaging the desperately needed atmosphere Security generally offer. The animatronics become mindless husks not character implications but because they needed What we discover for both the story and animatronics Afton) and an underdeveloped, shallow mind despite him being the only antagonist in the we only learn his motives through one of the in the series. He's a surprise guest that shows up out never develop any other antagonist. He exists as a fan service callback and nothing Cawthon's intentions, Afton should be dead. You can only say an antagonist "died but it becomes silly. In FNaF 3's mini-game sequences, we discover suit from spring lock failures sometime between and his name became Springtrap. Then at the end of FNaF 3, we burn down the surviving. At the end of FNaF 6: Pizzeria Simulator, living plot-relevant human and animatronic In Security Breach, almost like a parody, of Pizzeria Simulator where Springtrap emerges Burntrap. (Laughs) Burntrap... Additionally, everything else that burned molten amalgamation. Some genius built the Pizzaplex on top of still somehow intact. Honestly I'd justify it as part of a Big anything but reused story beats and characters FNaF 6: Pizzeria Simulator very explicitly [Henry] I am remaining as well. I am nearby. This place will not be remembered. And the memory of everything that started agony of every tragedy should. And to you monsters trapped in the corridors: They don't belong to you. [Shawn] The game's entire goal was to tie character together entrapped in an enclosed and finally release their souls. No matter how I look at it, nothing justifies (and strangely enough the reanimated molten in that fire). [GTLive] ... can like branch away from the story I thought that was a good closing point for that story. Yeah, I'm 100% on board with that. I don't know if people picked up on this in our theories, &quot;And that's the end of Cassidy's story, so that spirit is off the table!&quot; And &quot;oh, well isn't this a nice ending for the three Afton children. Whelp, that's probably the end we'll hear of them!&quot; *Wink wink, nudge nudge* I think that is what we've been trying to convey to everyone I don't think I'm alone in saying that a lot &quot;Cool, we know these guys, we're familiar with &quot;We want more in this franchise.&quot; [MatPat] Remember what we told Steel Wool Why is Burntrap here? ... Why...? Please get rid of him." Basically everyone was like "Not him again!" Why? Please get rid of him. Security Breach had the chance to start a instead chose not to respect the source material. Security Breach contradicts Scott Cawthon's a finale for its respective storyline and Even if the now retired FNaF creator Scott it's a very uninspired continuation of the However, I doubt Scott Cawthon was much involved, hard to uphold FNaF's legacy throughout [Scott] Even though I may have in series alone at 3. People were not happy with the jumpscare. And it's kind jumpscare of Springtrap and that really bothered me. And so then, that... in my mind I wouldn't I wanted to make another entry that was really really And I think I accomplished that I really enjoyed making that game. I have nothing that, and I really enjoyed working on the trailer. ones that I made and I love seeing the reactions. creates the memories for me, is just seeing how things is received really well then I know I did my job right, you know? So I think my favorite moment all the excitement from it and I knew that I was That was not a very fun, not a fun year. I mean I needed to bring a conclusion to several time I just knew that if I went through another year lot of fatigue. Like that would fatigue people. That would wear You know I can't explain why I felt that way, but I needed to resolve a lot of issues with the story. that I handled it the way that I did. I worked on a whole- while the fanbase was, you know, getting pretty agitated, working on anything, but I knew that was the way that it just a lot of hype behind it, 'cause that wasn't the purpose. The purpose of it was not to build a lot of hype. to see, and so the result of that was me going into And there you have it. And, you know, even on the Steam store, It's using all the really simple screenshots. That resolution to some of the story [Dawko] Are you satisfied with this possibly being the last [Scott] Yeah, I am. I really am. Starting with FNaF 3 there and that would become a core principle of the next game. worked on 4, but on 4 I wasn't completely happy with the storyline, little too sci fi and left a few plot points that were bothering even though I was really happy with the game... Um... I dunno, I just felt some experience. And Ultimate Custom Night brought in all of the so far it's been the best reviewed of the games which, you know, just seemed to really enjoy it. Security Breach also contains hidden lore series is known for, but that's a deeper warrants. [MatPat] Well let's talk about the game And I think one of the things that everyone is the frustration around putting together What is this game about? You know... and figuring out what is actually of all these lore hints and clues? There are so many pieces that kind of work together into a cohesive whole that you're trying to say." What is this game about? What is this game about? What is this game about? Frustration. [Shawn] Horror is extremely volatile. Even one fault in any number of different of the experience -- lack of atmosphere and elements, and predictability, to name a few. All of these problems can be found in Security While our main goal in Security Breach is missions lead us to destroy Chica, Roxy, and Freddy. To my surprise and delight, destroying them later in the game as a new "Shattered" However, Security Breach hardly leverages at all. For example, Shattered Roxy, now without her to locate you. She's also now unaffected by the Fazer Blaster and robots who have eyes. Blind Roxy could offer brand new suspenseful disable her and have to be quiet. Unfortunately these moments are virtually When we break Monty to steal his claws, he As much as a crawling threat would feel different, in a different game, we never see Shattered There's one strange exception however: we in Fazcade. He comes across as an Easter Egg rather than all intents and purposes. The Shattered animatronics also disappoint Once you destroy an animatronic and walk away, mind you wonder whether they're down for Unfortunately, the game never lets this relief sense of security. Instead, the destroyed animatronics almost For example, when you crush and destroy Chica and begin to navigate the dark underbelly During this time, the game should root the threats. Instead, after less than two minutes, Shattered her goofy run with the same unfair and dishonest [Mark] Oh! Hey! Where'd you come from? That doesn't make any sense! [Shawn] The game's pacing and flow to cultivate absent. Shattered Chica's new voice could've been reintroduction into the game. Before Chica's reintroduction, there's Chica, so the combined effect of an unpredictable, broken Chica would create a perfect recipe The longer the game can keep you guessing you to it, the more effective at building Horror demands at least some amount of imagination Breach fails to deliver. Shattered Roxy has a similar problem, but She instantly stands back up 20 seconds later teleporting to doors, and the ability to see she can't hear us when we're not running After we destroy and steal parts from all appearance in the Burntrap boss sequence. Unfortunately, throughout the sequence, Burntrap, and tensionless threats to overcome. Whenever Burntrap attempts to mind control Burntrap is, then press the corresponding In between shocks, Freddy periodically warns Monty, and Roxy. Freddy tells us to close the door on Chica to close the vent on Monty so he can't crawl Instead of Freddy's verbal checklist, the cues to indicate threats and sound design tension. Even then, Chica isn't a threat because never waltz in, you can bait her back into away. Overall, Burntrap, Chica, and Monty are great You sit around staring at an idle Burntrap you play a quick game of "Freddy says" [Ryan] If I push that button... Oh we set him on fire! We torched him up to stop him. We stopped him. We have to watch. I think that's what's happening here. Freddy's there. He's got control for a second then, so... I don't get it. He's just standing there. He wants us to stop him. How? Torch him again? He's like right there! He's just chilling. He's not even doing anything. I have no idea what's going on guys. I don't know. I really don't know what's happening right [Shawn] Freddy also warns us about Roxy when Roxy is an absolute design blunder who ruins Freddy tells us to specifically hide from Roxy is blind and relies entirely on hearing, a corner nice and quiet. Normally Roxy doesn't see you if you remain see you if you're close enough, and despite leave as Freddy suggested, she never actually That's incredibly inconsistent, confusing, [Mark] Hey hey hey, easy now. Listen, you lost, you lost. That's just the way it is. I don't know what's happening. I don't know what's going on. I legitimately have no idea. Why is Freddy stuck in that tube? Why is this not doing nothing? Why is Roxy being this way? Roxy literally will not let go no matter what. [Shawn] Naturally, the next idea the player However, Freddy kicks you out whenever Burntrap you out randomly because the game is incredibly [Mark] I don't know. Something seems off. Still doesn't seem quite right. Oh, well see that's the issue there. Right there that's the issue. Can I get in there with you? Can I hop in? Please? [Shawn] and Roxy is always still in the room You can also try to hide by messing with Freddy that does is lead to more bugs. [Mark] Suddenly he's low power... why? I don't know. And now this opens for him. What? Well now I'm stuck in here. What? What? Oh... oh... okay... what? I... I don't know. Oh wow. Freddy you alright there pal? So I made it in. Oh no... oh no... he got too much juice. [Shawn] So if you can't hide from Roxy in from her? Simple... You don't. You're supposed to climb into Freddy while Chica's voice box in Freddy to send Roxy The game's expectation to utilize the voice 1) Chica's voice box normally stuns animatronics, think to use it on Roxy? 2) Up until this point, we've only ever opening doors, so it's mostly an unused had to use it against an animatronic. And 3) We've never had a reason to use the ignore us while we're in Freddy. Even if I was a moron and hopped out of Freddy them with the Fazer Blaster or Faz Camera So even in the worst case scenario, Freddy's useless otherwise, and yet it's the only and only in the Burntrap boss sequence. Overall, Roxy's inconsistent, frustrating You've already learned that Roxy is blind sound. Freddy tells you to hide from her so naturally But actually she can see you and she won't And actually you're not supposed to hide ability that's been virtually useless the out before you can use it. And if you do use it, it doesn't stun Roxy away. Obviously. However, if you thought that was a doozy... enough times, you'll beat the boss even half of the boss sequence. [Mark] I don't know why I'm even bothering Oh low power. Well if only there was a way to fix that huh? If only there was a way to fix that. And I'm... where am I going? I don't know what... he's now just moving... and he's stuck. I don't know. Well, this is unfortunate for me. And now I'm out. Okay, where am I? Uhh... Oh! [Shawn] Not that it matters, since most of absolutely nothing until you get to listen noises. Don't celebrate too soon however, you're and credits. [Backseat Streams] Oh no I got inside. Oh no... okay we're on a timer now. Honestly I don't know how I managed to break [NilaGaming] Yeeeesss. Oh no! *Laughs* I died! Alright here we go. Come on. Yeeeesss. Noooooo! Oh *laughs* I just d- no way! [Dawko] Did we get out? Did we escape? Oh my gosh guys we did it! My voice is gone. My voice is gone. *Death noise* [Shawn] Rather than the Burntrap confrontation, Throughout the game we gather parts from other By the end, we upgrade him with Monty's him sound creepier, and Roxy's eyes that you to see collectables through walls. Although somewhat predictable, by the end us in a final boss type of moment. Instead, his upgrades basically amount to with negligible gameplay implications. In fact, Chica's voice box upgrade only back in both the in-person and Fazwatch conversations, effect. While Freddy would argue to Vanessa that the a walkie-talkie with recorded message functionality emotion to be anything but. It's like Steel Wool forgot about Freddy's just like how the player forgets about the Steel Wool also forgot to make Freddy functional. [Mark] Freddy where are you? Freddy? Freddy... Freddy. HURRY UP FREDDYYYY. NO, HEEERE. WHERE ARE YOU GOING? FREDDY ARE YOU SERIOUS? FREDDY NOT THERE. Oh my gosh. Oh, oh my gosh. Are you kidding me? [Backseat Streams] Where's Freddy? He's trying to get to me still. I can hear his feet. I can still hear him running. *Bunch of buggy Freddy teleporting* [Backseat Streams] *Laughter* (Freddy's footsteps and voice teleports there during the elevator ride until the end [Mark] Freddy Freddy please Freddy Freddy Freddy... Freddy! FREDDYYYYY. Freddy please OH NO! NOT LIKE THIS. Not like this, please. Get me in get me in FREEEEDDDDYYYYYYYYYY [Backseat Streams] Freddy come here. Where you... where you going? Freddy? Freddy where are you? This is like a horror movie. Freddy? Oh, you're up there! Oh, there he goes. [Shawn] To install Freddy's upgrades in unhelpful on-screen instruction prompts that These prompts stop the game dead in its tracks Even more, examples of tutorial prompts repeating They break immersion in an obsessive display Each upgrade scene already contains immersive prompts are jarring and unnecessary. Additionally, if you follow the narrator's pops up, then you die and lose a potentially If you wait until after the prompt, then you no reason. [Ryan] Okay. Oh! Why is he saying good job now remove the chest Why am I dead? Let's try this again. Oh wow, I was about .1 ms away from the instructions. Click on the bowtie to take it off? But that's what I did... [Shawn] Not to mention pretty much every instruction multitude of times. It's one of the worst tutorial features as well. These Parts and Service gameplay sequences It doesn't make sense for safe and friendly mode for Parts and Service maintenance that on them. I'm guessing Steel Wool Studios tried to Location but in Sister Location the animatronics motivations. In Security Breach, the friendly, unpossessed maintenance mode in their programming that Security Breach's Parts and Service sequences justification, and overall presentation as In the beginning of the game, there's a strange -- the introduction of Chica. Firstly, we're introduced to Noise Makers, This is the only moment in the game where is useful. The only exception is the Daycare: you must Moondrop distracted by knocking over objects. However, the Daycare is a completely enclosed knocking over objects to distract him, and prompt. Chica's Noise Maker tutorial is extremely case that you come across a Noise Maker in purpose because the animatronics have to be by that point they've already spotted you. The Noise Makers do nothing once you're Since the Noise Makers don't complement it's a remnant from a proof of concept. Within the same room, another tutorial pops system. A blue outline means "you are not visible." Not being visible means you're not capable A yellow outline means something saw you and The blue and yellow outline descriptions are for me, why am I not afforded the information safe and not visible. If the game intended for the blue outline yet, then this Stealth tutorial contains false Regardless, I never referenced my colored Wool had a bigger plan for stealth in their Threats in games should find themselves in fair and justifiable actions. The player should never feel like the AI cheats means of and reason for doing so. Security Breach fails on both accounts because next to you, and it's not shy about it. [Ryan] Where did he come from?! Are you serious man... We just did all that for nothing. That's 20 minutes gone, just like that guys... [Shawn] The animatronics unfairly teleport thousand security bots in the game, then they'll There's nothing more to the AI and the game The mechanics and rules behind the AI should Once we witness how the simple AI operates is: the immersion immediately breaks, and to frustration. When you start to see the threats as nothing AI, the horror has been exhausted, the player's and the small amount of atmosphere Security vanishes. In previous FNaF games, Scott Cawthon designed the appearance of the animatronics teleporting. Steel Wool Studios did not carry over this Instead of avoiding the appearance of teleporting, The animatronics' teleporting is a feature otherwise become lost in the open areas. Funnily enough, most bug compilations wrongly It's not a bug, but actually a feature -- which and is a consistent presence in the game. Instead of teleporting, the animatronics would from dark environments, competent AI, and and breathing. Sound can make or break a horror experience; Breach mostly devolves into repetitious voice whether an animatronic is in the area or not. [Mark] Oh Monty, you're here. I didn't know that. [Shawn] Security Breach not only makes it but often where they're located in that voice lines. But if the animatronics just teleport next roaming security bots, knowing where they they'll pop up out of nowhere in the most [Mark] I'm trying to skip, it's not letting I... can't... I can't... oh my gosh I want to skip, you said skip and it's not skipping... I guess just another thing that doesn't I'm trying to be so careful, and Chica spawns That's what does it? Like... that's so unfair! I'm fine if my skill is bad and I intentionally AND I STILL CAN'T SKIP THIS. WHY-- I'm fine... Why... would you have a situation where you Like, I was right there... I wasn't careless. That's the other thing, I wasn't careless. I was looking around like "oh, where is I know that Chica's there." And just GOOOOOOOOOD D**********IT!!!!!!!!! [Shawn] Unfair player deaths as a result of another problem: a poorly designed save system. Far too often, lost progress in Security Breach player was at, past the already completed continue playing the game. The game's save system, especially in the stretches of lost progress, ultimately rooting stressful fear of losing progress above all Horror games in particular lose all sense effectiveness from poorly managed lost progress. Security Breach's save system is lackluster For one, it's possible for the current autosave player, where as soon as they load in, the dying. Secondly, the save stations' UI doesn't to a new slot doesn't provide proper player save slots you have or are using. There's also no indication of when the last Thirdly, what makes dealing with lost progress Station exists in the room you're in but to disable all save functionality. [Mark] *Startled* Oo! Whoa! What? Uhh... Do I... Wha.. What do... WHOA WHOA! Wha.. what... what... But no but I... *Annoyed and frustrated* This was even before Why would you do that to me?! I have to put the eyes back in again! What?! AAAAAAHHHHH. Okay I'll be back... Okay actually NOW I'm going to save before That's a good idea. Then I don't have to do THAT again. *Sigh* oh my gosh... Can I save now? No... okay... [Shawn] For example, you can save behind the Pass first, which is likely, then you can if you die in the Daycare, which is also likely. That's equivalent to a game's checkpoints you die, spawn at the very beginning of the second time. Finally, Security Breach's save system is system. While autosaves exist in some capacity, it Security Breach desperately needs a reliable idea of save stations has restrictions that The first restriction is the game leaves the is volatile and unreliable. The most competent games with manual save power to account for human fallibility and Save stations' second restriction is that in a believable way, both aesthetically and time at an appropriate spot in the gameplay Autosaves or checkpoints can help overcome as well. For example, Resident Evil 7 offers a manual checkpoints as a single autosave file that The manual save system serves as a safe room It's a break from the chaos, allows players over them, provides object association with the manual save station itself, and forces there to their benefit, allowing them to relax The safe room fulfills a purpose that autosaves However, the checkpoints are just as important. They maintain the game's pacing that manual compromising the level design and progression for save management. Resident Evil 7 took the time to understand game to cultivate a challenge without compromising They overall nail the game's flow and pacing. [Mark] Wow... alright, welcome back to this That was an ordeal for me. Very cool sequence... Didn't want to play it 10 times but very I did like it... the first time. Even the second time... wasn't too bad. [Shawn] In one of the most shockingly anti-player seen, whether intentional or not: once you facility, Security Breach shuts off any and This is not the end of the game and it doesn't Security Breach actively encourages you to but without the ability to save a single time. The rest of the game after this point contains rest of the main story -- collecting the boss and finally reveal any semblance of story. We're talking potentially hours of content, side story endings. You should complete as much of the collectable the point that removes save functionality and even if you do, the rest of the main story saving a single time. Not to mention, every time you reach one of last save point. You lose not only every collectable you've and all of the main story progress that's -- each one resetting all progress since It's an absolutely abysmal waste of time. Therefore players feel relieved by the end of accomplishment, challenge, or horror tension, from the lack of any save system. Not only is the horror experience and tension experience has been ripped to shreds by repetition [Dan] There were also various bugs. There were some times when... especially after And for some of the endings you have to do You have to find an item in the bottom right go to the top left without getting caught. It was hard, basically. And there was a lot riding on not getting So one of the ways to avoid getting caught But then... There was... at least twice when I got stuck My recording... I lost an hour recording because I couldn't I got stuck in Freddy and he jumpscared me. I couldn't use the charging points -- that [Shawn] Even if Security Breach keeps the collectables should never reset from reloading into a reliable autosave or checkpoint system. If players spend the time scouring and exploring collect, then the player dies -- until the same optional collectables become a new game engaging with anything. Security Breach doesn't respect the player's nor the time and effort spent collecting it Additionally, optional and mandatory collectables For optional collectables not associated with maintain their collection no matter what, to recollect them. For mandatory collectables or meaningful content, that vary depending on the sequence of current For example, reaching the end of a labyrinth same rooms with threats chasing you. If the threats kill you, you shouldn't still rooms. The key should reset because the challenge Once the challenge is completed, however, Or... you can skip the entire segment by hopping Optional and mandatory collectables should in some way. For example, Birthday presents can contain and useful upgrades. It's difficult to distinguish what's an so the player ends up having to open up every In the end, much of the game bases its horror The fear of losing progress is the lowest disguised as "challenge." It results in an extremely frustrating, punishing, already completed content trying to even reach and conquer. I should at least be able to trust the save if the save system doesn't exist in the From the February Patch Preview notes from feedback to add in a single, new save station active save station, instead of just enabling Every area that's left in the game at that wouldn't even need to slap in additional needed to not spend extra time screwing players Again, depending on the remaining content pursue, there's at least an hour of time game without saves. The fact that Steel Wool is still not enabling separate save station means they're listening understanding what the problem is and what's Another area in which Security Breach fails is through its overwhelming number of constant The open-world in particular is filled with they catch you, trigger an alarm that teleports The constant threat of patrolling bots and poor pacing and tedious obstacles. The presence of a constant, predictable threat and tension over time, and never gives the Players need time to breathe so they can reflect can instill a false sense of security in them. More often than not, the security bots transform areas into annoyingly slow and predictable The security bots follow simple and predictable -- and because they essentially form the reliance on them, Security Breach fails as Even worse, the security bots solely exist AI. So many of the areas emphasize the security the ones who cause the animatronics to spawn The game relies on the bots' patrolling to compensate for both the animatronics' The animatronics and their AI weren't developed own. Therefore the security bots exist to enforce to essentially cover up the AI problem with There's further evidence in that the security who have simple but effective AI. The endoskeletons walk toward you whenever purpose very well, so for them, security bots AI. If the security bots had to exist and the contribute to the game's horror by alerting you from some unknown direction. Then, potential sound design and unpredictability suspenseful moments. Unfortunately, in reality, the animatronics always know where they are, either from the over and over, or from them teleporting on Additionally, the game's sound design is frequent voice lines. And any time effective sound design would they insert a [alert] sound to let the player they were spotted by something far away. The sound is heavily abused. The way to cultivate fear is through restraint The open areas should be dark, or at least by Vanny so she has a purpose in the game. Then, the open areas can be a sort of playground They can emit creepy noises but are still on your toes against unknown threats. The game's threats shouldn't all have The game should use the player's imagination keep the game unpredictable. Once players can predict patterns in the game's Previous FNaF games know this, so that's and not part of the core five nights. You play the extra nights not for the horror If the security bots and animatronics had Fazer Blaster and Faz Camera would absolutely The blaster and camera are an abusable gimmick vulnerability. You obtain either the Fazer Blaster or Faz you can completely disable bots and animatronics The blaster and camera are an all-in-one ticket in the game. If the player can just BLAM an animatronic grow complacent. Threats are no longer relevant. The game becomes a running simulator from Horror games must utilize player vulnerability tension-filled game. The blaster and camera are clearly abusable of vulnerability. However, they provide the perfect opportunity where the blaster or camera breaks and thus from them and sends them into a state of vulnerability In fact, Mark demonstrates the perfect dichotomy and the great potential of subverting expectations At first, he's complacent and cocky, but left vulnerable and he panics. The Monty and the potential to make the player However, Vanny only appears a couple times time Monty subverts the blaster and camera, blaster and camera still affect the other The situation changes once the animatronics If you destroy Roxy, then she becomes blind She supposedly can't see you anyway so she's but it's still better than the alternative If you destroy Monty, then he actually loses Although, his loss of immunity doesn't mean in the middle of Fazcade doing absolutely In the end, the Fazer Blaster and Faz Camera of its self-inflicted problems. Are security bots not moving out of your way Fazer Blaster! Is an animatronic in your way from teleporting Fazer Blaster! Does an animatronic spot you from across the Fazer Blaster! The blaster and camera are additional mechanics creates further problems. And, you know what, I'm honestly glad that Fundamentally Security Breach covers up problems because Security Breach is such a broken frustrating circumvent them than deal with them. Just like every entry in the FNaF franchise, previous FNaF game, including some amazing most capacities. Bugs aside, Security Breach is poorly designed. Security Breach attempted to implement similar mechanics found in most FNaF titles, but either forced in with little consequence, or a detriment Security Breach bandages underdeveloped AI broken and mismanaged systems. The main animatronic threats in the game are frustration and the quick diminishment of The animatronics rely on an army of security gameplay loop and, again, quickly desensitizes The bots ultimately result in rudimentary implications and an unfair fail state from The story and characters are shallow and practically and a cheap rehashing of the same ol' William Security Breach is not only much more story-oriented the antagonist and every other character related Scott Cawthon himself. Security Breach very deliberately establishes Despite Vanessa and Vanny's prominence as mysteries, they rarely appear if at all. The game touts Vanny as a red herring and I'm not kidding when I say you could remove virtually nothing would change. There's a very harsh disconnect between that cannot achieve a suspension of disbelief, in whatever story events that exist. Both the destroyed animatronics and Freddy's potential. The destroyed animatronics were reintroduced -- Monty was broken and no longer a threat, Roxy was supposedly blind but sometimes not. The Burntrap boss sequence is an absolute around doing nothing. It's simultaneously boring, confusing, and The game not only lacks a sufficient autosave entirely for a significant portion of the Fairly early on, Security Breach provides or Faz Camera. Players grow complacent; threats are no longer The blaster and camera take away all sense in any horror game. Overall, Security Breach not only failed as with its numerous frustrating and broken design Security Breach desensitizes its threats and stealth mechanics over atmosphere and tension. The game is driven by the fear of losing progress states. Security Breach failed to uphold and continue Please stick around for a quick rapid-fire discuss in this video. But first, Scott Cawthon really did care about And even though we'll all miss the FNaF his games, we all wish him a happy retirement And at least he's still supporting worthy [Scott] If I had the mindset that &quot;oh hey it's FNaF, people will love it&quot; and they would all be terrible. And Ultimate Custom important lesson for me that, you should never take- it taught me to never to play what you make. Whenever I made the, you know -- I'll use The Desolate of that on the internet. I found it on Google, And that was the most special thing to me in the world, I can't even tell you how important seeing that one drawing was. a fanbase and have kids that are drawing these I got a letter the other day addressed to Foxy. And God bless the post office in my town I kid you not, it was addressed to Foxy. ONLY to Foxy, and I think but the post office made sure to pass it along to me. And the letter was written to Foxy! (laugh) [Dawko] That's so awesome. [Scott] You know, that, that's so... there's nothing more priceless than that. these characters in the games... that is the ONLY thing that matters. if something is commercial and who cares if something just have to make sure that you- that whenever those people lifts them up and makes them happy and it's something that- That's all that matters, you know? And I need to write that plush toys and I'm gonna write a letter as Foxy. I've never done that in the paper and say that it was my hook that did it. [Dawko] Yeah that's awesome, that's really awesome. [Scott] But yeah so, yeah... that's a long story, but FNaF World I think I would just like to make sure everybody out there knows all of the support. Back whenever- before all this FNaF stuff I was online and I found one piece of fanart that Just randomly, I have no idea who it was, I have no idea that was so special to me, seeing that someone out there had that was just incredible to me, it made me feel so good -- And so now to be able to, you know... go online and just see this have ten times the artistic talent that I do. With all this out there, and I don't wanna... I'm scared to mention Seeing these... insane games that Nikson comes up with, of- in POPGOES. And then you know, the artistic direction of where they just flourish in the stuff that they make. all these really cool ones. I picked out a few experienced members of the community but game designers who decide to make fangames as their What an incredible honor that is for someone to want to be a a FNaF fangame, you know? It's such an honor. And like I and any time I go on Reddit to see illustrations that people are couple of those artists to do official artwork for me, umm... but, you know... and the memes are great too. I've been many people get to say that. And to see my characters But yeah, and just the YouTube community just... you know, amazing. Cory Kenshin, Fusion... this whole community of I'm just blessed. I'm just really blessed. This isn't so much surrounded by just such an incredibly talented community. Well I'm gonna try not to let you guys down, but I hope- I hope everybody in the community believes at least that- you know, it doesn't mean it's gonna be- it doesn't mean the movie is gonna perfect, but I hope everybody at least believes that I'm- that my there down, you know? I know that a lot of people enjoy this, enjoy these I'm just gonna try to not let anybody down, that's always that I do right by everybody. [Dawko] So yeah! Thank you so much. Thank you so much Scott I really do- [Shawn] And I didn't even cover the nightmare that buttons that you don't have your cursor And once you trial &amp; error your way through, Some presents contain rare stamina upgrades, It upgrades something related to sprinting, game doesn't tell you, and that's not There are other types of upgrades in the game Security bots have some seriously messed up Comedy staff bot doesn't say anything when lucky then you get to read his script once Whenever you hop in a Recharge Station to looks like the game is broken and not doing This delayed charge occurs with every single to deal with. Eventually you have to learn that you can and walk away and Freddy will fully charge A surprising number of security bots walk and impossible to react to if you're unlucky. If you take the stadium platform elevator have reset back to the top, so you have to DJ despawns in front of us when he activates, He's also almost never a factor or presence to be the main threat, but I'm not When you return to Fazcade, Shattered Chica her yet. If you destroy Chica last, she just won't You can place the Monty's Mystery Mix, turn button to destroy her without any interference. Towards the end of the game, once you destroy go back to Parts and Service through the usual hidden route. The segment where DJ chases you down a hallway you're slightly slower then a bunch of obstacles guaranteeing your death. Obviously the trial &amp; error obstacles are mechanics of the sequence changes based on It feels unintentional. "Get to the Recharge Station," it says. "Don't go to any Recharge Station,"