- Welcome one and all to Dimension 20. Our cast of players will assume the role of heroic adventurers Our story takes place Spyre mostly conforms to your expectations for a world of swords and sorcery with one notable exception, Elmville is a little town Solace may be home to elves, but it resembles more of a There are several schools in Elmville, but our story begins at the the world's premiere training Our story begins with six freshmen on their first day of school, and the first bell's just about to ring. Without any further ado, Fantasy High! My name is Brennan Lee Mulligan. I'm the dungeon master We're gonna be playing a little bit of a tabletop RPG here with Say hi, guys. (all cheering) This is Miss Emily Axford. - Not today, but yeah. (laughing) - [Brennan] Zac Oyama. - Also not today. - [Brennan] Siobhan Thompson. - I refuse it, take it back. - [Brennan] Lou Wilson? - I'll take it. - Ally Beardsley. - And Brian Murphy. (players laughing) - [Lou] There it is. - We're gonna be playing for you guys, thanks for This season marks the into the world of Fantasy High, where we ask the question What would happen if of a tabletop RPG, and Swords, high school, puberty, magic, it's all coming together. We're going to descend to somebody's home, why don't we have this That feels fine to me. - Oh yes. (dice clatters) Sweaty palms. - Hell yeah, we're gonna go downtown. - Yep. (Lou chuckling) - As the clouds part, over the Marigold River heading down to an area of wealth and expansive taste. It's downtown Elmville, and we see that amongst the manors gilded man o'war, a pirate ship, great and mighty that has been dry docked and dragged out of the onto land and turned into a mansion. We see vast hedgerows and various bankers and also pirates dragging chests of gold up through hedge mazes and we see, out on a Lou, would you describe - Oh, of course, hello, I'm I'm a half elf, I'm, of course, the son of the famous William who sailed the Celestine and raising up nations. I'm a fencer by trade, I and I'm quite good at calligraphy. (laughing) And I am absolutely thrilled to be here at the Aguefort Adventuring Academy. Very excited to kind of of becoming an adventurer that I may too, one of the Seacaster name and - You're out on a lovely day, you wake up early in the morning, you had a great green protein shake made by your halfling maid Cathilda, and you're out on the patio Herzon, practicing. - There's the sound of of each other, Fabian, look like so that we know? - I'm six one, white hair, a relative, like a thinner, like a - Lean, athletic? Lean muscle, that's - Whoo. (laughing) - Very lean muscle, very dexterous, but also incredibly strong. - Like a soccer player or a swimmer? - So like a swimmer's body? A real Michael Phelps type. - Oh okay, shoulders, hello. - For those of you at home, but yeah. - [Zac] Picture Michael (all laughing) - And white hair in comparison to the size of his body. - As Herzon and you fence, your mother, Hilariel Seacaster, a high elf with beautiful long kind of like a fusion kimono, some kind of silk garment-- I love her. As an elf, she's immortal, so she looks about as, you just like early 20s, even though she's about 200 years old. She has just a huge goblet of wine, it's about 9:30 a.m. in the morning. - Oh mama. &quot;Darling, you look wonderful, &quot;'cause I don't--&quot; - Oh mama, Herzon is really but don't worry, I'll best him yet. - Herzon, let my boy win. Let him win, my sweet boy, sweet boy. - Herzon, don't you dare take I need to be strong. (laughing) - Of course, I would You are a champion, you have - Yes. &quot;Did someone mention - Oh, Papa! of a gold archway is the you ever seen in your eye patch, saber at his side, a long coat. In this, weird 1950s suburb, he sticks out like a fuckin' sore thumb. Your father made his wealth by means that some call heroic and but those are, anyone's gonna talk about someone who's achieved greatness. He swaggers out onto the patio and says, &quot;My dear &quot;the apple of my eye, my pride and joy.&quot; - Oh, Papa. - As he grabs your head and and goes, &quot;Now, today is &quot;all right, now, I never &quot;of book learnin', never &quot;of any kind, so here's what &quot;all right, now I've asked around. &quot;You find the biggest - Yes, Papa. - Go up to him, and you drive your fist hard and strong right into his stomach and send him to his knee. That's what I'll do, just if you ever went to school. - That's right, my sweet boy. Now, I have a little present for you, if you're so inclined. (players gasp) - You see he reaches a red and white Aguefort letter jacket for the bloodrush team, - Oh, Papa! (players laughing) - He hands it to you and says, &quot;Oh my boy, my sweet &quot;you're not on the team yet. &quot;They're going to have some &quot;mainly for people that are comin' back &quot;and have played earlier season. &quot;Now, you're a freshman, but I've had &quot;a little bit of a conversation &quot;who is the coach of &quot;and I understand he'll &quot;in terms of a tryout today.&quot; - Oh, fantastic, Papa. Thank you so much, I mean, the tryout's just a simple formality, that I have the skills to be a champion. (Emily laughs) - Of course, aye of course. You're my son, you're a - Yes. is the same as my glory. - That's how we relate to each other. (players laughing) - That's how it goes. Now, and your talent and your raw I've also paid a handsome sum of money to Coach Daybreak, a bribe. - An illegal bribe. - Of course. if you hadn't. is the relationship - 500 gold pieces. - My sweet boy, I love you. - I love you. - I love you. and kisses you on the forehead and he looks over, you see that your mom is just, literally, winking at Herzon and waving over at him, &quot;My darling wife, I'll &quot;and she'll still be alive.&quot; - I know that, Papa. before you, long before. - The elven blood in you. - Time ticks away, grain - Yes, Papa, yes, of - We cannot live forever. So what must we do to live forever? Write our name on the face of the world with our heroic deeds. Write my name on the face of yeah, I will. that's all it is. - Now get yourself to school. (all laughing) - We are going to cut now to another one of our brave adventurers. - Oh boy, oh boy! We're gonna cut over of Elm Valley. (all laughing) Oh Lord, save us, we are where we're going to go and it's her first day of school at Aguefort, it's Kristen Applebees. Kristen Applebees, you're you've got an emblem of a cob of corn in praise to Helio, the god of corn, and his father, Sol, the god of the sun. You have been touched you have been sent to this world to share the healing - It's true. - You see, describe your character, and what they look like, what's kind of going on. is always wearing a tie-dye that she went to, like She has red hair, freckles, she's like, was made for camp. She walks around with her leather Bible that has her name engraved on the cover, she's always holding it, and yeah, she's big into the corn god. - You hear a bunch of noise. You have a one story, a little, that kind of like, Elm Valley is a super conservative neighborhood. Out in the living room there's like a sofa like a playpen for your little brothers. You hear your little brothers, are all out, just rolling Their school starts a little And you hear your dad, yelling out there, &quot;Bricker, if you don't give &quot;you're not gonna be able &quot;all right, now say your &quot;and get ready to get to school.&quot; You hear a knock on the door. And you hear the voice of your mom say, &quot;Kristen, you up in there? &quot;You almost ready to go - Sure am, I just finished praying. - You see the door opens, leans her head in, your mom's She's got those little mom shirt and the shorts, Your mom and dad are human paladins. They work for the border patrol, going and making sure that people from the Mountains of Chaos and monsters don't get in, you see your mom says &quot;All right, say your &quot;Helio, praise be.&quot; Just another hour. we're gonna be pretty late if you, if you were gonna do a whole hour. - I, okay, I guess I can, so I guess I'll just go, let's go. - See your mom gets a little &quot;Oh, sweetheart, I am so &quot;and Pastor Amelia is so proud of you, &quot;listen, it's not too &quot;to Sun Peak to go train with the monk.&quot; - No, mom, I wanna rub I wanna go to parties and dump my beer down the sink and refill so no one feels weird around me. - Gotcha. Look, as you can see, she &quot;Look, Helio asks us to &quot;I just, you're gonna be goin' to a school &quot;with elves and--&quot; I think your and dad's stance is racist. - I, (scoffs) okay. who look like you, have you mom, do any of 'em look different? - How can I be racist against an elf? I never met one, I never met, - Exactly, you've never met one. - Okay, okay, so this is-- If Helio was here right of a corn husk, he would pop into a million and he would spread those pieces around to all parts of the city. He wouldn't just be hangin' out here. - I, I, I, I, I, okay. You know, I'm not smart with you Kristen. - I'm a simple woman, and you as close, I'm not chosen, so-- - You're really smart, Mom, okay? I love you and I think and I think you're relying and I wanna hear you never say that again. - You see that your Dad &quot;Everything all right in here? &quot;We're about to head out, or--&quot; - [Ally] Yeah, we're all my elf friends. You got elf friends already? What the hell? I hope I don't even have one human friend. - All right, well you know everything, you can talk to Helio, so You get piled into a station wagon, you can see your little in the backseat, you hear your dad turn the elemental rune key and you guys start heading off. You see your brother, Cork, and he goes, &quot;You go to 'Venture School? - Mmmhmm. - I hope so. - Mmmhmm. - Do you wanna tissue? Do you wanna wet nap? Do you wanna tissue? (snorts) I'm okay. - I've got crayon up there. - What? - You have a whole crayon in your nose? Here, oh god. - You see that a small bit Ahhhhh! - What, you heal your brother back there? - Yes. I got no worries about you. You guys take off. Ooh baby, here's the next one. (foreboding music) It's really feeling... (plaintive music) So, it's pretty early. It's a misty gray kinda Little Branch is the area of There's a lot of miniature and we see over in a little sort of far away, there's a tree, and it's a tree with a little door in it and there's little and kites and all kinds clever little contraptions and there, in the middle of the tree, standing up from a bed that at almost, sort of a slant, even, the face sort of pressed is Gorgug Thistlespring, sort of what you look like and - Uh, yeah, I'm Gorgug, I'm 14. I'm six feet, four inches tall. I'm a lot bigger than (Emily laughs) I kinda don't have a lot of friends. I'm not good, really, I like keeping to myself or something or listening to music. I'm adopted, by the way, my and I'm a lot bigger than them. Last night I broke my bed in my sleep. (all laughing) - Aww. I just like to keep to myself. - Well, Gorgug is there he's got his headphones on, - Ahhh. - Evanescence, no doubt. - And you see that it's pretty early and you see that coming your adoptive mom and dad, are tinkerers, and you see they come in. Your dad's kinda got this muttonchops and he's bald, he's got Your mom's kinda like the little, sort of, workshop bandana around her head, they both have aprons on pointed shoes, you see your and your mom goes, &quot;Well, &quot;you're already up.&quot; I broke my bed again. that's no problem, aww, on You see that your dad and starts doing some gnomish spell, takes up a hammer and starts mending it with magic, &quot;Hey, you know what? &quot;Sometimes a thing gets broken, &quot;and when you rebuild it, it's &quot;A lotta things are like that. &quot;You put a sword in a steel forge, &quot;you gotta beat the hell outta that thing &quot;to get it nice and hard &quot;Breaking things isn't bad.&quot; - I mean, you keep saying that, (all chuckle) - It's always good, it's always good that you're break, you know-- where I got really mad, and then I woke up and my bed was broken. - So you guys have dreams - You see that Digby and Wilma &quot;Well, sure, sure.&quot; I was just thinking about, - Well, you didn't see me dropped a screwdriver on my dang thumb. I was fit to, you know, &quot;watch it, buster!&quot; He really got it. and you said, &quot;Hey, watch it, buster!&quot;? (all laughing) - I feel like my insides are boiling. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm not mad right now. - Okay, that's, hey, you know what? Everybody gets mad one thing you can think about is hey, things aren't going my way, I'm getting pretty PO'd. You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna sing a song. - Your mom grabs a little harp and your dad grabs a little ukelele and they start sort of When you feel a little mad It's probably because Just remember your mom and dad And then you'll start - I'm glad. That's right, bud, so just sing that song around the other high schoolers (Emily laughs) - Okay, I gotta go. - See, Gorgug, you walk by the door, hands you And you see, she says, &quot;that back at Oakshield you had, you know, &quot;it was a little bit of a hurdle &quot;trying to, it was a &quot;of a hard time trying &quot;But making pals is just &quot;you know, you think--&quot; - It's just like making a flower? - Sure, everything's - Oh-- - Please don't sing another song. (all laughing) You see your dad softly puts his ukelele (players laughing) you see your mom goes, &quot;you think, hey, what &quot;And how would I make &quot;and you're thoughtful, and then, and then &quot;you're real careful with &quot;and you put the elbow grease in &quot;and you do it with love the whole time. &quot;And if you just go be yourself, &quot;be your great good self &quot;I just know you'll - Okay, thank you, Mom, I'll go to school and I'll try to make a friend today. - Maybe give him the flower! - I don't-- You know? - That could make a friend. - [Zac] I'm gonna buy - Well, it's not buy a gift a gift isn't buying something, you know, and you give someone a compliment, is that buying something something? Or give you someone a smile? - No, okay. You ever do that? Wow, yeah them tusks, them - They're so big. - We're going to cut now, We will now go little bit (bright classical music) - Here in the neighborhood of Clearbrook, we now venture through the lofty woods and the shaded streets to where we find ourselves with Mr. Angwyn Abernant, Miss Aelwyn Abernant, at a small breakfast nook small spinning elven pylon small unseen servants, whisk eggs and tea and to the table back and forth. You see that your father, from Falinel reads the Your mother, a professor at Hudol looks down at her tea and goes over her curriculum for the day, and your older sister, in her Hudol uniform, sits next to you. Describe your character to I'm Adaine Abernant, I'm the daughter of the elvish ambassador. I was at Hudol, but the entrance exam to get because I had a little but Aguefort's good too, Aguefort's, I'm happy to be at Aguefort, that's good. It's like actually, I'm better of magic anyway, and I'm good I, I, I, it's good, I'm excited to go. (laughing) - So at the table, you sort of ruffles the &quot;Hoo, ghastly business, that. &quot;I'm sure this will come &quot;at the council, it's dreadful, (Brennan clears throat) - I hate it when you do that. - You say a thing is dreadful - Do you want to know? - Adaine, an inquiring mind the opportunity for knowledge Your sister, Aelwyn, for example, I trust that when she wants to That's the mind of a the responsive, more visceral attitude of a practical caster, you understand. - If you really wanted us to know things, you'd get us papers and you say, &quot;Oh gosh, terrible, oh drat, &quot;what a thing,&quot; and instead of you saying, &quot;Oh &quot;practical information that - You see, your sister &quot;on my crystal, do you not, - I'm not allowed a the entrance exam. You're not allowed a crystal. Well, I'm sure if you kill a hobgoblin maybe you'll, what are the sort of things they do at Aguefort, I'm not sure. It's an honest question, do - I cast Ray of Sickness (all laughing) - You see your sister goes (retches) (vomit splashing) (Emily laughs) I mean, I think that maybe to go to school today. No offensive spell casting at the nook. That's going to take a to clean up, Arianwen, Very well, father. Your mother swirls her &quot;I don't understand &quot;can't simply get along?&quot; Why do you always ask me? - Well, I don't know, I I'm rather busy, I'm trying - Yes, of course, you're - You see that she looks immediately ignoring that that you just made, and says, &quot;Dear, &quot;do tell me what you see in the news.&quot; He says, &quot;Well, the elven &quot;Very dreadful business, &quot;to Bastion City, looks &quot;just went down, dreadful affair. &quot;Ought to be dealing with &quot;will have no end of talking &quot;Terrible.&quot; that good an oracle if she - Adaine! - You see, Aelwyn goes (smearing) &quot;Now, really, Adaine, - I'm just saying. Your sort of breakfast gives you a very chaste kiss on the head and your sister, so your mother gets up and says, &quot;I trust that you She says, &quot;Aelwyn, if &quot;you can do that, and Adaine, I understand &quot;that there's a bus - I mean, other people's found that out for them. this is a very wonderful some of your divination casting, perhaps gaze into a crystal ball, see if the bus is coming That's sort of the thing - Very well, I shall find - That's my good girl, so You get your stuff and You've got kind of this Your father walks over to you and says, &quot;Oh, Adaine, before you go, I'd You see he takes this big crystal orb out from a satchel, you see he says, &quot;This is an arcane focus &quot;a warcaster from the military in Falanel &quot;employed for his spellcasting. &quot;I've had no use for an arcane focus, &quot;but I understand you'll be spellcasting &quot;under adverse conditions, so perhaps &quot;it would be of some use to you.&quot; - Thank you, father. Here you are. - What's that? - Why would it be impractical to fight with a two foot diameter orb? Wouldn't a large orb, it helps I'm trying, Adaine, I (Lou laughing) I don't know what to tell you, Adaine, this is a touching gift You don't like it, you can - No, I, thank you, thank you, father. (Emily chuckles) I guess. but try your best. in my hands to school on I'm sure it will make a great impression with these new people. ducks away, you and Aelwyn start walking, and you see that she looks over at you, and she says, &quot;That was a &quot;and all that, I don't - Yes you do, all the time. - Well, mine are always funnier, you know, they have a ironic sort of twist. - I cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter. (witch cackles) - Make a saving throw, if you'd be so kind for Tasha's Hideous Laughter. - Oh. - A four, do I have points - Did she reverse it at her? - That she does. Sorry your sister's a fucking badass - Trying to look like I'm not panicking, just still laughing like a crazy person. - Your sister is so cool. - I love your sister. her uniform is just - Make a wisdom roll for your wisdom save. - Four plus wisdom, (laughs) - Great. - You start cackling like a lunatic. Also gonna need to have you for your panic attack condition. (Siobhan sighs) - 20, 18 plus two. Cool, so you don't go into a panic attack but you do start laughing like a lunatic. You see, she says, &quot;See, for example, &quot;I just said that my spells were funny, &quot;and I've turned your laughter spell &quot;back on you, which is &quot;which are the two things that &quot;And I didn't even have &quot;isn't that something--&quot; so many spells and screw in going to this school, to destroy your fucking life. - You see she says, &quot;I'm sure you will, &quot;you're going to join one &quot;secret societies, go oooh--&quot; - I punch her in the face. - Go ahead and make an attack roll. - Did you use up all your (Emily laughs) in your opening. - Three, you, boy, your skinny elven fist whiffs right past her face, and she says, she says, &quot;That sort of pure &quot;I'm sure that'll earn you all sorts &quot;of credit at this school &quot;Well done,&quot; you see she says, &quot;Can I, &quot;before you injure yourself &quot;can I just be very clear about something? &quot;Look,&quot; she says, &quot;I, &quot;it's awful that you &quot;It's awful, it doesn't &quot;but that's not even the reason.&quot; - I punch her in the face again. (all laughing) - Eight, she says, &quot;Really, stop, &quot;what's to gain at this (all laughing) in the face. &quot;I'm trying to help.&quot; - No, you're trying to help yourself. - [Brennan] You know, look, all right, and just let me do, I'm trying to do a nice older sister thing for once. Can I do it, can I do that? - Can you? - Good grief, all right. Look, Aguefort doesn't so all the things about grades and tests and practicals and exams and all that, that's all out, it's a nonsense place. It's all topsy turvy there, all right? They look differently that they value there, so the for that academy are, sort of, things that would be I heard that one of the best ways to get into an arcane from the restricted that that's something that they look at as, I don't know, some kind or it shows, I don't know, gumption? - I don't want to take 'cause you probably couldn't Just because you're good - I couldn't get into Aguefort? - [Siobhan] That you'd - I could get into Aguefort. - You'd be terrible at Aguefort. - I'd turn that whole school I'd lift it up in the air-- You're too scared to try. and well mannered. - So I don't care to - Meh, meh, meh, meh, meh. - All right, fine, go on your first day, get partnered up with go out into the wilds and get killed on your first adventure, see what I care? - Good, I shall. and walks away. - Whoa. (Brennan laughs) - Hell yeah, ba-bum, we now go over to, (smooth jazz music) - Oh yeah. - We go now to Ballaster, which more seedy kinda place, You see Strongtower Luxury Apartments, with the luxury kind of (neon light buzzes) Strongtower Apartments, we see and basically, a kind of retrofitted, its like a one bedroom apartment bed in the living room with Very small apartment, sun's just coming up, there's some smoke coming from some burning and there's a little A very sparse, spartan kinda place, and we see Riz Gukgak. Brian, go ahead and describe Riz for me, if you'd be so kind. - Yeah, so I'm Riz Gukgak. My nickname in middle I'm a goblin, and I don't even though I'm pretty (all laughing) My only real friend is this who, technically my babysitter, I had a babysitter until I was 13, but she recently went missing, and my mom is a detective and I'm a (coughs) licensed private investigator, so I am gonna find Penny myself. - So it's early morning, I working your case. it just has the missing girls all just pointed at the school. - Oh, eww. to have in a little boy's room. - I just have a board of missing girls. - He's trying to find them. - Whatever, creep. - You're not here, you're not - You know you take (players laughing) - Oh, Penny, babysit me. - Riz is there not kissing a pillow. (players laughing) Just being a private investigator. - You see that it's early in the morning, you're kind of looking at the board. It's a lot of, it's a really nice board, you got the yarn and everything, it's kind of sparse clues-wise, it's sort of just the where they went missing - Tryin' to move it around but it's, I only have five clues. (all laughing) and your mom, Sklonda Gukgak walks in. Now Sklonda is a classic goblin, she's got sort of green skin, yellow eyes, the big ears that come out to each side, but has got that classic mom Kinda like the bangs Dressed with the sort of white shirt, she's got an underarm holster dress shoes, she's always got the badge hangin' off of the belt there. You see that she opens the door, walks in. She's been gone all night working. And you see, she walks in and she goes, &quot;Oh, Riz, sweetie, are you, you're up? &quot;What are you doin'?&quot; I slept for four hours, we said - Four hours is the minimum. - Okay. to work on the board, four hours of sleep. that it's not great that - Well, they're missing, mom. - Why does it say licensed - Well, it says un, it's - Looks like a smudge, oh, sweetie, that's, that's-- - Really skirting the line with a lie. - But, overall, okay. You gotta lotta gumption, that are working, actually working this case, but-- on the inside. - Yeah, that Ague, at the school, right? That's where, the girls - Yes, they all went to Aguefort. - And that's the clue that I have. - She looks at your one clue, she says, &quot;Okay, you could &quot;on there, that's a probable thing, &quot;we could, you know--&quot; - Yeah, we'll just read a newspaper, the dates, right, what last seen, last person seen. - That's why it's good - Why am I encouraging this? Don't do this. Oh god, okay, you've eaten? Are you hungry, want something to eat? - I had coffee. - I haven't eaten, okay, - Okay, I'm gonna go get You see she opens the fridge, it's empty. She goes, &quot;Oh yeah, I gotta go shopping.&quot; You see that she opens the, the thing and there's some cereal. She takes a little thing of cereal out, (spoons clatter) pours two bowls, pours some milk in. You see that there's not so then she pours the milk out of her bowl into yours. - Puts water from the sink in her-- (players groan) it in front of you, and (all laughing) Don't cry. Don't cry. She's trying her best. I love her. - You see she says &quot;All right, - Shout out moms. &quot;well, eat up, okay?&quot; - Okay thank you. - Ah, all right, well I'll go, I'll find a time to go (sighs) Hey, today, first - Yep. it's the five year anniversary, to the cemetery, we can go visit Dad and sorta see how things are going. - Yeah, yeah, we can do that. - Does that work for you? - We can go in the morning, 'Cause I know you probably try - Yeah, I'm probably gonna so I figured a lotta kids their phone numbers on their phone, but I made business cards. - So I'll probably be busy Saturday. - Okay. - Why dont we do it in the morning. - Ah, sweetheart, formality is great when you're tryin' to be a professional, and I know that you seen me work a lot, and so that's kind of a, But there's something to be said, you know, when I go out with the guys, I'll knock back a beer, - I'll kick back a little bit. It's okay to relax. - Get who? Get them relaxed? to tell us-- - Tell us the secrets so that we can solve the mystery. - Friends are for more Friends are for, there's a lot Right, so let's look at - Start with the friends, - Okay. (claps) Well, I'm gonna, you - Yeah. I'm gonna catch a little bit of sleep. Sweetheart, you're gonna do great. - Thanks, Mom. I love you, have a great day at school. Tell me all about it - Okay, thanks, Mom. - Gives you a kiss on the to her bedroom, and we will now cut over to our final-- - Nice. - Ah, hell yeah, we cut way over by the highway, live out here, it's kind of a little, has a chain link fence, it's up there. - You're in the attic. - Fuck yeah, upstairs is a room that last year was filled with pastels and little unicorns, other shit like that, and now tour lists for who's gonna There's a sick red guitar in the corner. There's some horn cream, for your horns that are coming in. You see, Emily, go ahead if you would. You probably knew me last year as, like, that really bubbly girl who was, like, invited to every party, my horns started growing in, but it turns out, my dad isn't my real dad and I have a demon for a who he is, so pretty much I'm kinda like, fuck everyone and I'm just like, I'm just like, I've got a bass guitar, I've got some drumsticks, a bass driven band, and, just like, yeah, just fuck everything, Thats me, also, my name is but that is the name have anything to do with so I'm just Fig now, just Fig. - You see that, so Fig is upstairs, you see that there's a knock at the door. You're in bed, see that your mom leans in, your mom is a, she's got the mom jeans on, but is like a, sort of wood elf. You see that she's got and a quiver of arrows, that goes and explores You see she goes, &quot;Sweetheart, &quot;up a storm, what's goin' on? &quot;You're gonna be late, - Oh yeah, um, about that, I'm not going. - God damn it, you're going to school. - Yeah, try and tell me even one good bard who learned how to bard in school. They're gonna teach me how No, if I want, I need - The school is real life experience. Sweetie, you're 15. - Goddamn it, I'm not-- - I can't tell you who your, your dad is Gilear, who (Ally laughs) - That tool. aren't great between your doesn't mean that he - Really, because the look on his face when my horns started growing in didn't look a lot like love. - Sweetie, this attitude You gotta get it together, - You know, you're right, I like maybe from a dad. I-- Just give me a name, - There are reasons I can't tell you. - Is he the Nightmare King? - It's not the Nightmare King, - I think it's the Nightmare King. - It's not the Nightmare King. It's the Nightmare King, - I think that-- the Nightmare King if - Say, you want me to say what? - If it's not the Nightmare King, you could let me know by being like, it's not the Nightmare King. - The Nightmare King lives from here, maybe. - I did, the Nightmare-- in our nightmares, maybe - Sweetie, this is sensitive, and adults-- - I light up a cigarette. - Where the fuck did you get a cig? She snatches it out of your hand. I don't, where did you get that? - I light up another. Wow, where did this come from? You were so well behaved a year ago. You see she sort of Look, okay, well, and and goes, &quot;Well, there (bus engine roars) - Bye, anyways, so I think I'm just gonna sorta stay home and work on some music. I've got a song called &quot;My Dad is a Demon But He's Also a Deadbeat&quot;, - You're goin' to the school. - You see that she walks and she calls someone, you can hear her speak in elven downstairs. (speaks in foreign language) (Zac laughs) that I really thought I was an elf. Elves are so lame. (speaks in foreign language) Oh my god, just so many -th soundings. (Brennan speaks in foreign language) Ugh, I know you're talking about me! I can hear you saying Fig. - It got nothin' to do - You see your mom-- - Comes back upstairs and &quot;all right, your father is coming here &quot;to pick you up and take you to school, &quot;all right, because he--&quot; I'm finally gonna meet him, what a luxury! I can't wait, I'll put - Get dressed for school, all right, and we will talk about this. (sighs) I love you, and I know but we're gonna get, you gotta put the cigarette out while I'm in the room, while I'm in the room you can't smoke. - I put it out in her coffee. (coffee sizzles) - God damn it! You see that she walks outta the room. - Just tell me who my real dad is and I'll call this war off. - She walks outta the room, she leaves. You see that she walks and a humongous griffin flies up (wings flapping) lands in the front yard and flies off. - That's pretty dope. - You see that a moment and Gilear, who you, not but the man who raised He's not lookin' great, You've never seen an elf He's got a little bit of a paunch. He's got a little, sort of he's working at a different job now, 'cause he quit his old one, and he's got what look like beans or (players laughing) and knocks on the door, tock tock tock. - I go answer it, Gilear, out of cans again? My daughter, yes, ehm, I have been... eating legumes as it were for I have found over at Strongtower Luxury Apartments-- - Wow, you really emphasized luxury. - They're not the worst in the world. They're all right, but I've found that it's, you know, yeah, Eating beans. I, so I'm guessing you were sent here to try and get me to go to school, right? - Well, I'm gonna give you a ride. - Okay, let me just go use the bathroom and then I'll come. - I go into the bathroom to make myself look like my mom. And then I come back out. and you see he goes, &quot;I thought you needed to go to work?&quot; - I know, I've changed, I don't think she should go to school. She made some really compelling arguments about how bards, how bards so thank you so much, and also, thank you for keeping it a secret - Well, all right. we can say the name out loud. - You see he says, &quot;Well, he's actually, &quot;if you wanna go talk to him &quot;he's free today.&quot; Can we do it in the next hour? - Sure, that's fine. - Yeah, that's no problem. Thank you so much, she's upstairs so we can just go, no need - Really, no need to say goodbye to her? - No, I think she's working on a song. - Okay, that's all right, You see he goes and gets in - Okay, I'm coming. on your Disguise Self spell? (Brennan clapping) - Foolproof. - Foolproof. - [Brennan] Cool. - [Brian] Everyone else goes (all laughing) The sun rises in the sky over stone brick walls, ivy of the Aguefort Adventuring Academy. All of you arrive by bus, by Out in the front of the building you see a bunch of students, each other are clapping and everyone's kind of gathering. You're a few minutes early. You see that your father of the school. - You got tricked. &quot;All right, Sandra Lynn, here you are. &quot;Your former lover's in there. &quot;Oh, you think I'm a fool?&quot; - Oh! And don't call me Gilear, all right? I know that I said-- - What, what else am I Stranger, stranger with I'm willing to make, that's I address you. - You see a little tear forms in his eye and you see he says, &quot;I know &quot;when I first found out.&quot; you said, &quot;You're no longer a Faeth,&quot; and guess what, I'm not, I'm just Fig now. - Fig, I'm sitting here - I know, I saw you ate (all laughing) I've put on some weight. You ever heard of a fat elf? You ever heard of it? I've never seen a fat elf with a bad comb over - Okay fine. - I'm sorry, Gilear, I'm You're just some random man, - Oh ho ho ho ho! get outta my fucking car, you demon! (Emily gasps) it's not, no no, 'cause you're - You know what, I am a demon! And then I put some horn wax (Brennan laughs) I just hope I don't also get a tail. The horns are enough, okay, bye. - You guys all arrive at What are you guys all doing here together? - I look around for the or student in the, kind - You look around, you see Zac, Gorgug. He's the tallest person here. - I'm holding a metal flower. I was looking for a friend. - I walk straight up to Gorgug. I say, hey, how you doin' buddy? - I'm, I'm good, it's my first day. I guess it's everyone's first day. - Oh, oh, it's your first day. - Do you want this metal flower? - I swing at you, it's fucking hard. (all laughing) (all laughing) just as I'm walking into I'm like, oh my, this - Go ahead and roll an attack roll. - Great. 15. - My AC's 13. What's your strength modifier? - You take three points of damage. - [Lou] And then I turn and I say, I'm Fabian Seacaster, and I'm here to be great. (Zac groans) - I'm trying to sing that song. (players laughing) When you're mad - I run up. If you're mad. - Hey, are you okay? What happened? - That sucks, you seem really non-violent and I think that's really cool. Violence is never the answer. - I go into a rage. - Awesome, what do you-- and I attack, I go to punch. - [Brennan] Go for it, - Oh. - What's your AC? - [Brennan] And you're in a rage, right? - Yes. three plus two plus one You fucking, Gorgug whips - Wait, no, violence isn't the answer. - I-- like, a commotion? There's a bunch of, you guys see-- - Are there people, are - Oh, you see there's this one kid who looks like a gnome with that long, kinda like stoner hair, who's like &quot;Oh, fuck, fight, fight, (all laughing) - [Brennan] Fight, fight, fight! - I'm gonna sneak into while there's a commotion and (all laughing) You guys see that wading is this hulking dragonborn, right? For those who don't humanoid dragons with long tail, no wings, these big claws, like a gray suit and a blue tie, big horns sweeping off of this, he's red scaled, You see he's holding just in his hands, and he walks up and goes &quot;All right, all right that's enough! &quot;And on day one, the bell Effortlessly hoists you sheathing his cricket and goes, &quot;Now look here, what &quot;How, why did this even start?&quot; - Well-- He hit me. this one know that I wasn't - It looks like he's holding a flower. - Hey, the greatest attackers that they might sneak their way. I don't need to explain myself - You 100% need to explain yourself to me. I am Vice Principal Goldenhoard. - I'm sorry I got mad at you. You can still have the flower if you want. - Don't, kid, don't give him the flower. (all laughing) - Im in the background praying - He has absolutely not from you at all. so we're even. That's immediate First day, after school. - All right, you see he gives then says, &quot;Good grief, is there any &quot;other nonsense happening here? &quot;Good, behave yourselves. &quot;I'll see you at detention after school. - I'm so sorry. And give me a stealth check? - Oh, I don't know if that's (players laughing) (die clatters) (all laughing) - You're all just instantly (all laughing) the teacher's lounge, what do you steal as you go in there? You just see those little, like-- - I'm just going through the fridge, seeing what kind of food there is. Elf food, elf food-- a, you see that there is a with a transparent steak in it. You can just like, partially see through, or ethereal, and you see it says &quot;Ghost steak, please do not eat. &quot;For ghost professor.&quot; - Um yeah, I'm gonna eat that. I take the ghost steak and - You have a very fuckin' - Fuck, fuck. And this Vice Principal guy walks in and goes, &quot;Okay, immediate detention. &quot;We are three for three, and it's, &quot;I mean, I'm about to - The crazy thing is, you're Welcome to my game, and what I wanted you to do. - I, I, I, I don't know - I know, that's why I was - Describe your two step to me. How have you bamboozled me in this moment? Walk me through how you've bamboozled me. - All right, my plan all so I would get kicked out, and you are just scooting me along. I put my combat boots up on the table. What's the deal with that steak? I can't pick it up. - Right, it's for ghosts, Now, I'm gonna be very honest with you. I don't think you fully You're not suspended. - See, he looks at you and says, &quot;Uh, no?&quot; - 'Cause last year I I was one of the girls into the sky 'cause I was - I shouldn't be having a in the teacher's lounge, Get outta here, get out of here! - Okay, I'll leave. - What's your name again? - I'm Vice Principal Goldenhoard. - Okay, he's kinda cute. Don't say that, shh, don't say that. Get out, he shoos you. - Well, maybe that's part of my plan too. - Shuts the door. The rest of you guys walk through and you hear the PA kinda the first bell rings, kids start running off to class. You guys hear a little voice saying, &quot;Students, one and all, welcome &quot;at the Aguefort Adventuring Academy. &quot;I am Vice Principal Goldenhoard, &quot;here with some announcements &quot;Everyone should have received &quot;in the mail, make sure to &quot;for your first busy class day. &quot;Bells are five minutes between classes, &quot;and hall passes are in &quot;I've been told that lunch lady Doreen &quot;has made fine creamed &quot;Surprising indeed, what (Emily laughs) &quot;any matters of curriculum can &quot;Mr. Arthur Aguefort, &quot;will be brought to me, &quot;and Ole Hawthorne, my paddle &quot;don't worry, we use &quot;here at Aguefort, ha ha ha ha. &quot;Welcome, welcome, new class of heroes!&quot; (feedback shrieks) Ring, everyone files to the classrooms. - Whoo! - Oh, Riz is clapping, he decides clapping is gonna make him seem cool, Okay. a little bit too, 'cause - Just working so hard to and hide the stupid fucking (all laughing) - As you go to walking up the steps, those of you who are from, that happened out here, you guys see that there are two seniors, one of them is a blonde haired giant whose wearing his letter jacket, and the other one is a beautiful half elf. They're both seniors, and you see that they're handing out little fliers that have ballots attached to them, and you see that the young woman, who's sort of half elf, again, has got sort of the long, a little flower tied into it, is going, &quot;Hi, we're voting today to &quot;Hi, we're voting today, &quot;Hi, can I interest you in a flier?&quot; - Yes, actually, hi, Riz Gukgak. Nice to meet you. - Hi, yes-- - I actually have some literature for you. So I am, I open my briefcase, I am kind of in the business This has my phone number on it if you, platonic hangout. - Sure. - Yeah, for sure. in getting in with the seniors - You see that this big comes over and goes, - Hi, Riz Gukgak, so great to meet you. How are you? - Would you like a card as well? - Wassup? and I give him a card, that - Oh, okay, do I throw this out right now? - No, we can start a group text, perhaps? We can send each other funny memes. - Sure, okay, you see he puts it away. You see that the girl says, &quot;Oh my god. &quot;You are so friggin - It's Riz, Riz Gukgak. but you are fucking amazing. - I'm Penelope Everpetal. - And I kinda run a lot of the clubs, and yearbook and stuff any help, like, learning of ropes or learning about the school and all, - Yeah. and this is my boyfriend Dayne Blayde, who's the captain of the bloodrush team. - Dayne Blayde. - Dayne, you are freaking cool, man. - Wassup. - Fuck, what's that? - Oh, sure dude, hell yeah. - Do you, do you play bloodrush? - Mmm-hmm, go Owlbears, - You see a huge beefy looking half orc, either a junior or a comes over and slaps Dayne &quot;Yeah, he fuckin' plays bloodrush, &quot;he's the ball, dude, he's &quot;he's the fuckin' ball, dude!&quot; - I'm actually not the ball. - You're the ball, that's You're the ball. it's actually Riz Gukgak, if and I open my briefcase and hand-- - He, make an opposed athletics (Brian laughs) A four! - You see that this half orc grabs you and then stuffs you, as a into a trashcan. Boom, that's what's up, dude. You're the ball now, everybody, If I hear you call this it's your fuckin' ass! - I suppose I'm technically but not always! - You see, Penelope goes And you see him go, &quot;Huh, oh sure. &quot;Hey, Ragh, dude, it's chill.&quot; And you see Ragh goes, &quot;Grr, yeah, okay. &quot;Sorry dude, just, like, &quot;and it makes me wanna &quot;I just fuckin' can't take it, man. &quot;Fuckin' love this team, go Owlbears!&quot; You see that they walk away. You see that Penelope looks over at Adaine as you sorta walk up the steps. You see she goes, &quot;I &quot;That thing is huge.&quot; My dad gave it to me, I Do I want it? - No, I'm good, but thank you. You can keep your orb. Listen, I don't know if to carry this with that but this is, it's a little ballot, we're basically having a it's like never, Aguefort at prom, and me and my boyfriend Dayne are trying to run part and we're basically bring that tradition back. - What does that mean? What does being prom king and queen mean? - Well, there's a vote, right, that has if enough students say they want it, we'll do a like a vote and people can vote for prom king and queen, and they'll like have a special dance - They just get a special Is that, yeah, okay, I'll vote. Yeah, I don't really understand. - If you vote for it, and it's gonna be a lot easier 'cause I can tell you're a freshman. It's gonna be a lot easier 'cause like, probably the more time you spend. - That's actually fewer questions. - Sorry? Dayne looks at the other guy and says, &quot;Babe, it's fewer questions, &quot;less questions is wrong, grammatically.&quot; You see she's like, &quot;Fine, Dayne,&quot; she says, &quot;Okay, so why don't - Yeah, I'll take it, - And you can vote-- Where do I, where do I, where do I vote? - There's little boxes out which we're going to now. - Welcome. - Cute outfit, it's like you go to a different school than here. (laughs) Fun! Let me know if you (Siobhan pants) You guys walk along, you see that at that main and he's this big human got a little baseball cap and a giant glowing spear with holy light. You see that he claps You see that, he, Ragh is and the guy goes like, &quot;there are my bruisers, there's You see he looks around and he looks over at you, from church, from the Cathedral of Sol. And you see he goes, &quot;Ah, &quot;What are you doing here?&quot; - Oh, I go here now, it's my first day. Good to see you. kiddo, that's great, I love that. I'm gonna need you to make - Great. (chuckles) Uhhhh, what is, where's athletics? Oh, two, seven. - We're all just getting our asses kicked. - Yeah, yeah. to the ground and your and your Bible sort of No! and you see that there is a tall, looks like an elf, but he has black hair hanging, and he's got a mesh shirt with a belt, kind of diagonal across it, like, used for that and you see he's got And he's got spiderweb designs And you see he goes, &quot;What's up, cleric? &quot;How's it goin'? - I don't know, did God - Ooh, let's see, let's start Any curse you may feel because we were all made - Oh, I know I was made off, - Okay, look. helps you up and hands your Bible to you and goes like, &quot;Hey, Zayn, do &quot;huh, why don't you beat it?&quot; You see that Zayn says, &quot;I don't know, &quot;why don't we all just beat it?&quot; (bats fluttering) - I'll pray for you, Zayn. - You see that the coach shakes his head and he goes, &quot;That kid is a piece of work. &quot;He got kicked out of &quot;and he's taking it hard.&quot; - Who gets kicked out of That's where you go when you're - Yeah, exactly, he's having a hard time. But hey, it's really You know, if you ever need anything, come talk to me, man, I am happy - Yeah, thanks, it's good to see you. - Good to see you too, and wait, you can't say it too loud, of people of all kinds here, Go corn god! Praise be to Helio. this place and end up It's a big auditorium, you Riz, I assume you get out and-- - I'm covered in trash. (all laughing) - You guys gather, and in a purple corduroy suit, Very dark dark skin, and a monocle, and this long white beard He's got a little watch fob and a monocle on a little chain, and to the podium, you see he produces, as if from air, a little and steps to the podium, being introduced, of course, first by, from off stage, &quot;Ladies and gentlemen, your principal, &quot;Mr. Arthur Aguefort!&quot; You see that the, sort steps out and says, &quot;Welcome, one and all &quot;to another exciting year here &quot;at the Aguefort Adventuring Academy, &quot;where we train the next &quot;And what is an adventurer? &quot;One who goes on adventures. &quot;I say that an adventurer is (inspiring music) &quot;A hero is someone with &quot;courage of spirit, and the might of will &quot;to go to strange lands and &quot;We go to places where there are things &quot;that must be destroyed, &quot;Wandering from town to &quot;meeting in drophouses and taverns &quot;and getting into scrapes with the law &quot;and otherwise finding ourselves &quot;engaged in all matters of &quot;sometimes violent, sometimes fatal. &quot;Yes, fatal, and a hero &quot;who enacts their will bloodily &quot;and with strange magicks upon the world. &quot;But does a hero truly stand alone? &quot;Ha ha ha, no, the strength of the hero &quot;is the strength of the &quot;A gathering of friends, perhaps &quot;with some alcoholic beverages, &quot;some fun music, ha ha ha, a jape! &quot;For all of you, a party is a group &quot;that comes together to &quot;and eradicate each other's weaknesses. &quot;A party is composed of those &quot;to each other, to make themselves greater &quot;than the sum of their parts. &quot;Perhaps we have flaws within us, &quot;perhaps we don't cast magic and we need &quot;someone who can cast magic &quot;Perhaps we're very &quot;a lot of injuries, but we need somebody &quot;who is very good at hurting &quot;Perhaps we need a sneaky person to sneak, &quot;not always, sometimes &quot;but occasionally, in circumstances &quot;you really need one, right? With traps &quot;and other things like that. &quot;That is the meaning of party, &quot;of hero, and never forget, all of you, &quot;ugh, it's bad. Never forget that the greatest magic &quot;of all is chronomancy, the magic of time. &quot;Welcome to your first year, freshmen, &quot;at the Aguefort Adventuring Academy!&quot; (vocalizes) (magic tinkles) (clapping) was on the fire drill the whole time, to pull it, but I was so moved by that that I actually took it off. (all laughing) - I was looking for a (all laughing) - After that, a bunch of You see that Goldenhoard sort of says, &quot;We have some orientation events today &quot;for those that are interested &quot;in matters of the arcane, &quot;happening in room 212, &quot;tryouts and battle orientations &quot;Please file out, obviously &quot;into a class without your own choosing, &quot;so be wise and find the best fit for you. &quot;Very well, enjoy, students.&quot; You see that students the freshmen, at least, sort of filing off towards the different - I wanna find lunch lady Doreen. - Cool, yeah, you can go you go over to the lunch and if you're looking on that hangin' out of her lip, and as you walk into the cafeteria and goes, &quot;Oh, lunch is not - No, I came to talk to you have the only honest profession here and, also, you're allowed to smoke at work which I think is really cool. - I'm not allowed to smoke at work. - Oh, well, but you do it anyways, which shows that you have a So I was wondering, maybe I with you. - Maybe. - I just respect what you're doing. Everyone else is trying to and you're just being you. You're just so true - Okay. - Okay, you wanna do - Mmmm. - You see she tosses a - I don't, I just let it drop. (all laughing) we gotta buncha drums of of a truck-- - Yeah, for like a drum? I'll go work with that. it must have fallen or something, 'cause the corn was all dinged up so I had a fucking hard but you're welcome to go try. - Wait, so that you're havin' a hard time opening the drum, there's There's a bunch of drums? - She points to a bunch in the back, like big metal canisters. - Cool yeah, I just go there - She looks over and she goes, &quot;What the fuck are you doin'?&quot; What the fuck are you doin'? - Music isn't, music isn't at The Black Pit, you know, it's anywhere. (vocalizes drum fanfare) - Make a performance check. Oh come on, hook me up, 17. - It gets really &quot;Stomp&quot; in here, (Brennan beatboxes) and you see that she &quot;that is a little funky, &quot;You know, I wasn't always a lunch lady, &quot;I used to get around when I was young.&quot; - Whoo! &quot;sometime. &quot;Listen, you got a gift for - Thank you, I know any of that here, I'll learn stupid stuff. Well, actually, I kinda liked everything the guy was saying. &quot;You know, you might be right, &quot;there might not be much &quot;but you know what, &quot;to go see what the bullshit &quot;Why not go check in on the enemy, &quot;see what all the squares - Oh, shit, there's so I'm gonna take you up on that. - Hey, you're a real sweet - I will, I bet I'll come back once a day. - All right, oh, because - Yeah. - Yeah. sweetie. - You can call me Doreen. - Okay, bye Doreen. - Adaine, you are as you are walking past it, (die clatters) - You notice very old, human librarian, who and closes it over a and you see that there is a book lying on a little table of the restricted section. Is it light enough that - You can make an investigation check to try to clock the weight of the object at this distance. - 16? - Great, I cast Mage Hand and I take the book. - The book zips from the The book that now rests in your hand is titled Wards and Watches, It's a very very powerful abjuration book. - Great, I very quickly and then I panic, 'cause I'm like, why am I doing this, My stupid sister just told me to do this and I don't know why I'm doing it, and now I have a book that and I can't tell them that I've stolen it. - Please make a panic (die clatters) - You go into a full blown panic attack. - Shit, oh god, oh my god. - I come up. Yeah. - No. (exhales) and I thought it was pretty awesome. - Oh god, no, the goth - That was so cool. Here, let me make it glow. I cast Light on her giant orb. - You are now glowing in the Vice Principal Goldenhoard &quot;Very nice use of the Light cantrip. &quot;What is your name, young student?&quot; - Oh, I'm Kristen Applebees. - Kristen Applebees, I'm Vice Principal Goldenhoard. - [Ally] Oh, hi. - Young lady, are you all right? - I found this book. (Ally laughs) with disadvantage. - You roll two d20 and - Okay, great. - Oh my god, a 20 and a two. (all shouting) - It's just a two I'm afraid. - You see that Vice Principal says, &quot;Sorry, you found a book?&quot; - She's covering for me, I stole it and she caught me stealing it. - No, I didn't, I I stole it, I'm so sorry, I was, I was, I'm sorry I'm new, I - We all fall short of the grace of God. - Mm, you know I wouldn't, for this, I would say, This is not appropriate, Kristen, would you mind taking the book to Principal Aguefort's office for me? - Yeah, sure. You see that he looks at you and says, &quot;Now, young lady, what was your name?&quot; - Adaine Abernant. Oh yes, you come to us from Hudol. I'm afraid I'm going to So you'll be staying Do you understand? All right, this is not fun for me. You're clearly having a bad time. (Ally giggles) what I'm doing, even as I'm doing it, wondering if there's some that I don't know about, because I've already talked out loud and other students can hear this. - Yeah, I can hear it all, hi. - Hey, for real, we're not gonna do this. You think we have a thing, We don't have a thing. You have a thing. - Good grief, all right, here's your slip, hands you the slip. - Bloodrush trials? Let's do it, we are Everyone's out there, Ragh Barkrock is out there, and you see that Coach Daybreak is out there as well. You see that, what you do - Well, uh, hello comrades! - Gru looks at you (all laughing) - Dayne, good to see you, deal with that little goblin earlier. Oh hohoho, good stuff. That was miraculous, ball, that's, I like that. I'll call him Ball when I see him. - Oh, okay, what's your, Dayne speaks up and says, &quot;Okay, I'm super confused, &quot; 'cause you're talking to &quot;but I don't know you.&quot; It's my first day, you probably, I'm Fabian Seacaster, the great adventurer, Bill Seacaster? I'm his son Fabian, and I'm going to be on the bloodrush team, so it's exciting to meet you and get to know you and-- - Make an insight check for me. (die clatters) 15. - You notice that these players look to Coach Daybreak, as you mention your Dayne looks up at you, looks at the coach and sort of, all of these their coach's expression, basically. You see that Dayne turns to you and says, &quot;Oh, that's right, yeah, your dad's &quot;the richest guy in town, right?&quot; - Yes, that's him. - Yes, what, I'm sorry, Privateer, my father's a privateer. - You see Ragh says, &quot;I don't - It means where you would, in conjunction with different enterprises and things, he wasn't just running around like pirates do, that's not my father. My father worked, he was charged with tasks and adventures, ah. - For real, dude, I've that plays bloodrush talk like you. You're using all kinda sphew, shwee, sphh. - Well, I mean, yeah, I'm one of a kind. - You see Ragh says, &quot;Yeah, &quot;One of a kind of a bad person.&quot; - Ah, what a witty barb. That's good stuff. leans in, says, &quot;All right, guys, &quot;we're gonna have some tryouts now. &quot;Let's everyone lay off of Fabian here. &quot;Fabian's father made his money outside &quot;of the nation of Solace. &quot;Part of the laws of Solace &quot;in the outside world can be forgiven &quot;under the national amnesty &quot;right, we got people &quot;of the Nightmare King &quot;They wanna come here and make &quot;The council forgives &quot;not have to live down there past, &quot;even if they did all kinds of things, &quot;that they're still benefiting from.&quot; - Yeah, well, it doesn't - That's right, kid. Well, let's get this tryout started, huh? - Yes, let's get this tryout started. - You see he says, &quot;Well, &quot;with some running drills, huh?&quot; - Fantastic. and give me some athletics checks. - Great. - Oh, and a nat 20. - Oh, you run the fucking You're 16 and you are You take Ragh Barkrock, second in command guy, fling He looked up at you and says, &quot;This guy fuckin' cheated, dude, &quot;fuckin' cheated, man.&quot; - Oh, Ragh, another one of I did not cheat. (Brennan roars) into a full rage and And jumps on him and his Coach Daybreak comes over and he says, &quot;All right, well there, fancy boy, &quot;you got some moves on - Fancy boy, that's a fun nickname. Is that gonna be my nickname, like Ball? I'm Fancy Boy? I like it. you got real chops, let's You see Dayne looks up and goes, &quot;What?&quot; You see he says, &quot;Yeah, let's &quot;I wanna see it.&quot; The coach sets up a play with people running around you, so there's the other side big stone, you're not on This is actually it, right there. The coach sets up a scrimmage the idea is for you to pass you're sort of As you get started, go ahead and make me a perception check, real quick. (players groaning) - Critical failure. - You're havin' a day. - 20 to one, okay, now an athletics check. That's what I prefer, 22. - Fuck yeah, he gets you the ball and he's like, &quot;We You, roll a little opposed check, mmkay. He sets you up, you survey the field, and you see a bunch of people but all the people that you could pass to are kind of like losers either clotheslined or rope - Of course. each other, you see a little opening that you could break through. (all laughing) - You charge forward, what the fuck is going on? You effortlessly dodge and weave through all of the other athletes and fucking get to, what do you do when you get to the end zone? - I place the ball down gently. Say good game, I liked that, those plays went real nice, Dayne? Dayne, good stuff, my man. - The hell you didn't - Well, it worked out best, - Yeah, you know what? You didn't throw the ball about what to do. Does he, do we all, does This is fun. and says, &quot;You can hit the showers, bud.&quot; - Oh great, great, does anybody, I'll see all you boys on the hill. - Nobody else starts to - I'll meet you all there. - He says, &quot;You're not on the team.&quot; - I'm sorry, what? I'm sorry, what? - You're not on the team. (Lou stammers) - I ran faster and I, my father paid you. My father paid you money. - What the hell did you just say? See all the other students look around and he says, &quot;Buddy, you got a big mouth &quot;and no heart, you will You see that he goes, &quot;That's detention, pal.&quot; - You know what, you 'Cause clearly, clearly and bloodrush, right, you know what? I don't need this, I and you know what, Ragh, I didn't like any of them. - What the hell, that's not what you said! And Ragh bursts into tears, and the other, Dayne goes like, &quot;That's fucked up dude. &quot;It's fucked up to tell a You see that coach says, &quot;Good luck. &quot;You got all the moves in the world, &quot;but it means nothing if you &quot;You'll learn that the hard way.&quot; - Oh, I'm sure I will. - Fabian heads off. We'll move over to Riz real quick. Riz, you are walking one of your other classes, to find the rogue teacher anywhere, and then it, sort of, word that that's the deal on the first day, is you have to find the rogue teacher. - All right, so I'm just, - Do an investigation check. Lookin' around the halls, (die clatters) What'd I get, 11. 11, you are out near and you see that one of the students is talking to, he looks like a very beautiful, and she's who's like, got a black leather jacket and a white t-shirt, and tight jeans, who's next to a big motorcycle and he's this Tiefling, big horns, he looks like-- (laughter) - [Brennan] He looks to be a student, he's kinda got an arm on her waist, and he's leaning They're out in the And you just see this, sort of, couple and she's kind of talking to him, and he's sort of like A big long horns swept back, and he's sort of smiling and you see that Penelope Everpetal who was sort of the popular girl who was handing out fliers, walks up and says, &quot;Hi, Sam, can &quot;I don't mean to interrupt &quot;who hangs out around the What are you gonna do as you see this? - I guess I'll try to and listen to their conversation. (die clatters) - So that is a 23 for stealth. - Awesome, 23? - Oh, fuck yeah, you see that, as you get closer, you see that Sam, her hair is flowing slightly, and she's a water genasi, right, so she's like a water You see she says, &quot;Penelope, &quot;Johnny is just stopping by real quick &quot;and I can talk to you after school.&quot; And she goes, &quot;Um, now, You see that the guy, the Tiefling, sorta looks over and with that face of a at a high school, just I'm dating and I have no facial expression as I'm watching you, just like. You see that-- and I'll sneak up behind him - His arms are engulfed with green flame and he turns around and says, &quot;Watch the jacket, kid.&quot; - &quot;You have any idea - Johnny? - Do you go here? he puts on sunglasses, - No? You see that Sam waves and says, &quot;Hi, can I help you?&quot; and I point to the cheerleader girl. - See, Penelope says, &quot;Oh my god, &quot;are you the ball from earlier?&quot; - &quot;Yeah&quot;, I turn to Johnny - Why do they call you Ball? - 'Cause I ball, dude. - Ball. - I got shoved in a - Tough, I know what - So you, where you from man? I live at the Strongtower just me and my mom. is the same place I'm (laughter) - Could I get a perception actually rules or-- 'Cause right now, I think he rules. (die clatters) - This dude fuckin' rules. - Cool. &quot;Johnny, I gotta go deal with Penelope. &quot;Are you okay if we meet up later?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Yeah babe, &quot;I might be busy,&quot; &quot;I'll see you around kid.&quot; He fucking takes off on his motorcycle. - Johnny Spells! - You think Johnny Spells rules. (all laughing) - You see that Sam looks &quot;He totally rules.&quot; - Johnny Spells. - He hangs around the high school. - Whooo. No, he seems awesome, how old is he? - I don't know, I think and I think he gave a so, I think 21, maybe? Do you know, has he dated - You see that Penelope and make an insight check. - Cool (die clatters) - 18 plus, 22 total. - Penelope didn't like that. - She didn't like that She grabs Sam and runs into the school. - Not so sure about Johnny Spells. Cool, so I guess I will follow them in. - Cool, you follow them duck into the girl's changing room and you hear Sam say, And you see she says, &quot;but now we need to talk And the door closes. - Are any of these guys around? - Nope, not that you can see. I guess I, oh boy. Riz runs to try to find - Make an investigation check. (die clatters) 18. make a persuasion check. (die clatters) - Awesome, ah cool. You see that there's this she's got little sideburns that go down to these little wispy She's hanging out with some as you approach her. You've got a lot of jewels, and I can tell that you like stuff, I will give you my, I will give you my frickin' briefcase if you'll go into that changing room and tell me what those girls are saying. I think one of them has a - You see, she says, &quot;Your briefcase?&quot; - Okay, well, what do you - You see that she says, &quot;I don't know, &quot;give me 20 gold pieces.&quot; I know, what if I, I, is you want, I'll take something for you. - She says, &quot;Okay, yeah, steal me a teabag &quot;of that gross tea that Principal Aguefort &quot;is always drinking.&quot; Okay, will you go in there now? - Go give me the teabag. - I run off to go find a teabag. - Cool, you go, you find Go ahead and tell me The door is locked. I guess I'll try to, try to unlock it? - Cool. what skill would that be, - Yeah, make a perception - Okay. is a tool proficiency - Ah, okay. So I did bad on whatever that - Cool, four is bad. - And then roll again. (die clatters) Oh boy, sleight of hand, seven. - You mess with the door, (door clicks) - Sweet, I look for his tea. - You walk in and see Vice Immediate detention! - All right, look at that, wild. We are up to five on day during the day, that's good, all right. I run and try to grab his tea. - He looks at you, yeah. Go ahead and make an You can do acrobatics. (die clatters) - You grab it and bounce. I'll go to detention later, I promise. - You have to go to detention! You see he's just barreling You run, find the dwarven girl. She says, &quot;Oh my god, - Yeah, I got it. Riz Gukgak! She goes, all right, I'll And she heads off, you see Goldenhoard, you see there's sort of fire (burning fire) Makin' me run, that's for you to do. Oh, here we go, detention. Well deserved. of the day, when you're all and Principal Aguefort &quot;our first day today, at the &quot;we will now begin the wonderful process &quot;of the day of fellowship, &quot;of the afternoon to meet with the friends &quot;you've made and form your &quot;This, most critical afternoon &quot;will be you banding together &quot;here at Aguefort, I hope &quot;that you have the most in common with &quot;and that you feel the most excited about &quot;becoming heroes and solving &quot;through violence and strange arcana.&quot; You see that Vice Principal Goldenhoard grabs the mic and says, &quot;Except for those with detention, &quot;you will be expected in detention.&quot; You see Coach Daybreak &quot;Hey, Kristen, I wanted &quot;A lot of the adventuring &quot;this afternoon, do you have any idea &quot;about who you'd wanna maybe &quot;form an adventuring party with?&quot; - Anyone who isn't already religious. - Sorry? I really like the community but I really wanted to come to this school and meet people who are not non-believers, just not believers yet, pre-believers. - Okay, well, I was thinking about maybe getting you with some other kids that really love Helio - Agh, no. - No, no, no, no, that's I mean we've all heard of that, right? I wanna get out there, meet new people, I wanna, that's the sound of chimes, baby, bouncing off each other, - Kristen, you see these by Goldenhoard about how and then after, the afternoon classes there's gonna be-- with the bad kids. Kristen, you don't You're a good kid, you - Yes, exactly, you know to make an entire loaf rise? Just a little pinch and I - I don't think you're yeast. I feel like you have more-- I think so. - Please, please, give me detention, if they're all going to detention just give me detention - I can't give you detention, for what? - The other day I went what looked like a bottle I keep putting water in - You want me to give you - I want not just to give me detention, I want you to yell right now and make it seem like I - I, all right, everybody listen up. Kristen Applebees, bore false witness. - That's like, a cardinal sin. - Yeah, well, you lied because and you should always, I can't say this. - At least you coulda said I stole some, you coulda gone way, coulda - Well, you know what? - You bore false witness! You see that Vice Principal and says, &quot;Coach, that's &quot;that's got almost nothing to do.&quot; - Well, you heard the man, - You see he hands the red card to you. All right, kiddo. - Where do I even go with this? Hey guys. - I bore false witness. - I wanna do that. - Yeah, I-- To anyone, you just talk about that? - To, before a higher power. Yeah, it's kind of compli- - We punched each other. - I'm too good at sports. - I couldn't eat the steak I couldn't pick it up. - I stole a stupid book told me it was a good idea. - I tried to get you out of that. - It was really cool how honest - I stole some tea. God I'm just like Jesus. (all laughing) - You guys get in line for lunch and you start going and you see the lunch lady, Doreen, starts puttin' creamed corn - I've never eaten a surprise before. - Well, it's tuna Okay, here's your tray, here you go. (food splats) and you see that there are - Ooh, it's sour somehow. - Excuse me, Miss, I can't eat this. Do you have something, I'd like to eat another option. - Another option? I mean, I'm assuming there's a menu that I can order from, or assuming there's - There's no way that I I could get you ketchup, I could do-- - Miss, ketchup is not a meal. - For, as a meal, is ketchup - Put vinegar on it, I don't know! - All right, Jesus. - I down my whole tray as well. - I'm gonna need Kristen to make another, athl- sorry, an opposed acrobatics check, so this is a dexterity roll. - Good, I have negative three off the bat. 12. You see that Ragh, the half orc jock grabs your Bible out of your hand and tosses it into the kitchen. And you see, it goes and spins and lands in a big vat (creamed corn bubbles and splats) of the creamed corn and sinks into it. And you see he goes, &quot;That's what you get &quot;for boring what you, what you did, &quot;that's what you did, that's - Good thing I already know - I cast Mage Hand and pull the book out of the creamed corn. You see that as you go out of the creamed corn, (sucking) the book pops out, it's And there's a ton of goop all over it. You see the lunch lady says, &quot;All right, &quot;all right, everybody you all gotta go. &quot;Everybody go sit down.&quot; Ragh says &quot;Think about it next time.&quot; - Who the fuck is that guy? - Don't even bother, he's a fucking oaf. - A freaking idiot. and after lunch you guys are in detention, you see the lawn outside, filled with students all like &quot;and we're gonna be adventurers, yeah, &quot;let's make an adventuring party.&quot; (soft music) And you see that Vice and a sort of young gnome and he's got sort of See they step in and Vice &quot;Well, well, well, &quot;Troublemaking bothers me at a deep level. &quot;This school can be a dangerous place. &quot;Students put a lot on the line here. &quot;And you, with your &quot;and your shenanigans are a liability &quot;that cannot be allowed. &quot;Mr. Gibbons will handle your disciplinary &quot;action while I'm gone.&quot; So he turns and walks out, hoists himself up so he's and he goes, &quot;Okay, so how &quot;Yeah, right here.&quot; - I technically have diplomatic immunity and, do I have to be here? - I feel bad. I didn't mean to punch you. I got so mad. I did punch you, but it wasn't worth it, but I shouldn't be here, for the bloodrush team. - Okay. - Yeah, you punched him. - You're not objective. (coughs) I also admitted that I punched him, I said that. - Wow, okay, so that's How's everything at home, guys? Everything good? - Everything good at home? Okay, now he, now-- - Why am I crying? - Because I guess you that, you know, maybe home's not great. - Okay. - Okay, now those are and I'm here to talk about anything, okay? If you have any problems, yes, right here? - Can't we just do lines - Yes, Jesus Christ. all the way around, now there's something that I wanna talk to all of you about. You guys hear a scream. A bloodcurdling scream Mr. Gibbons whips his What do you guys do? - I follow him. - Same. - I mean, I guess if everybody's going, we should go? don't rush into anything. - I just see them running a jailbreak. - You guys sprint, you The scream comes from the cafeteria. (all gasping) - [Brennan] You burst you look ahead of you and flitting around (gremlins flitting) little shapes with long wings. You see corn gremlins, cobs of corn with malevolent eyes and wide mouths. (Brennan gnashing) Tearing at the walls and ripping banners, and far into the cafeteria, you see Doreen, the lunch lady, with her back turned to you, slowly gazing behind her shoulder, deep sunken eyes, malevolent yellow as spell energy pulsing with arcane power &quot;Hey kids, it's lunch time again, &quot;because we had lunch earlier, - If you explain the joke, - It was bad last time. It's a bad lunch. - A monstrous pulsating (Brennan roars) a colossal ooze begins to And I'm gonna need all (ooze gurgles) (dice clatter) And that's where we'll leave off this week on Fantasy High, get ready for combat, ladies and gentlemen. Our intrepid heroes are now facing the lunch lady Doreen - I'm gonna double fist my rapier into one of the buttholes. (Brennan roars) (furniture crashes) - How big is this thing's - Yes. (bombs exploding) - Did you go down? - Bye bitches. - What did you just do?