Most of Srinivasa Ramanujan's knowledge He spent all of his time thinking It's no wonder he flunked out of college - twice... Yet somehow, he found his way where he performed ground-breaking Ramanujan was born on December 22, 1887, in the town of Erode, south of Madras Ramanujan was born on December 22, what's now called Chennai in South India. He was considered a miracle mother's first four children to survive infancy. He also survived an outbreak of smallpox. Poor health would afflict him his whole life Math equations danced in his head He believed his gifts came from He used to go to the nearby Sarangapani &quot;Temple as a boy to sketch complex mathematical As a teen, he got his hands on a copy British mathematician George Carr which was However, many students found it answers without showing the steps to get there. But for Ramanujan, this book Carr's book was "like a crossword puzzle, as Robert Kanigel describes He had a natural intuition for math which Imagine you're on a street with 50 to 500 where the sum of all house numbers to Can you find it? This actually happened on a street with 288 with both sides totaling 20,706. When the Indian statistician, P. C. this problem that he read in a magazine, formula that works for any number of On a street with just 8 houses, house 6 Ramanujan said he knew the showing his unique ability to see He received a scholarship to study at in his hometown. However, his obsession with math got in the way. He flunked his English composition paper, lost family couldn't afford the 32 rupee tuition per His father worked as a clerk in a sari shop Ramanujan felt humiliated and ran away from home. He gave university another shot, but failed the entrance exams administered He scored less than 10% on the physiology exam. A former student whom he tutored in "...he used to bemoan his wretched conditions like Galileo died in inquisition and I continued to encourage him that God, His failures turned out to be a blessing in disguise because now he could He educated himself with that outdated his notebooks with new formulas of his He started to build a reputation after journal dedicated to mathematics in But it wasn't long before he had to find a job. At the age of 21, Ramanujan's parents arranged his marriage to nine-year-old Janaki a distant He began working as an accounting a big shipping hub known As luck would have it, his direct and the head of the port was a British engineer. They encouraged him to write to English But two esteemed Cambridge However, a third was intrigued. In January 1913, G.H. Hardy, a University of Cambridge, received Dear Sir, I beg to introduce myself to you as a clerk in at Madras on a salary of only PS20 per annum. University education...After leaving school disposal to work at Mathematics. I have made in general and the results I get are termed The 'startling' claim is that adding 4, and so on, to infinity added up to -1/12. Bear in mind, this isn't your typical addition. Divergent series emerge from a Ramanujan's letter was ten pages long, consisting mostly of technical results He claimed to have a technique for counting prime numbers - numbers greater than 1 that Prime numbers are notoriously unpredictable. It's like trying to understand if there's know exactly when your favorite Although Ramanujan failed to find a his work provided fresh insights He also included theorems Integral calculus can be likened reassembling it, making it whole or "integral". It's a mathematical tool like determining the drag on a plane's wing. As a plane flies, the air hits the wing in to drag. Integral calculus adds up these Ramanjuan's letter to Hardy ended this way: "Being poor, if you are convinced that there is published. Being inexperienced I would very to be excused for the trouble I give you. I Hardy didn't know what to make of this unusual Was this a practical joke? Or, had he Hardy showed the letter to his colleague, Some of the formulas were familiar, others Hardy He concluded that the letter "...was certainly Hardy responded to Ramanujan: "I was exceedingly interested by your letter however understand that, before I can judge it is essential that I should see Such proof was required if others Ramanujan didn't bother explaining he just lept from insight to insight. Perhaps he took a page out of In his response to Hardy's request to see proof, writing: "If I tell you this you will at once Ramanujan wanted someone of stature like Hardy to get a scholarship, since, "I am already a half Hardy wanted to arrange a scholarship But crossing the ocean was considered a orthodox Hindu faith that could Hardy's colleague E.H. Neville who task of convincing Ramanujan to go to Cambridge. He assured him his strict vegetarian Any concerns Ramanujan had disappeared the Hindu goddess Namagiri instructed On March 17, 1914, Ramanujan set He prepared for European life by learning to eat with a knife and fork and After a three-day journey, he Cambridge, to start an He and Hardy couldn't have Ramanujan was a self-taught savant who believed Hardy was a Cambridge professor and an avowed atheist who refused to Yet their partnership flourished. Ramanujan and Hardy contributed substantially deals with the fascinating properties and One of their most notable works 4 can be partitioned (or While this may sound straightforward, figuring becomes increasingly complex with larger numbers. The number of partitions of 50 is 204,226. This has practical implications Partitions can help computers operate data into smaller parts, devices Ramanujan pressed on with his work despite being in poor health for much of The colder weather didn't help. He was one found shivering in his Cambridge room, sleeping atop the blankets, Maintaining a nutritious vegetarian the rationing imposed during World War One. He also skipped meals and ate at random hours of Ramanujan was eventually diagnosed with Being ill and far away from his family In 1918, he threw himself onto the tracks of the London Underground in Luckily, a guard spotted him and pulled a switch, bringing the train to a stop His spirits improved considerably later that the Royal Society, named him a Fellow, the He was elected partly for his which are used to explain Elliptic functions can accurately describe which is neither a perfect It's like having a super-detailed Becoming a fellow of the Royal Society is believed to have stimulated the discovery of which he continued to develop upon returning His life inspired the movie reflecting his profound insights An example is Pi, which starts with 3.14 and can never write down every single digit Ramanujan got us closer and closer to Back home in India, Ramanujan kept and, in a letter that turned out to be his Dear Hardy, I am extremely sorry for not writing you very interesting functions recently Mock theta functions are like a secret code mathematicians In 2012, mathematician Ken Ono relied to devise a new math formula to This approach helps calculate a measure of how information gets Ramanujan's cryptic work still conceals many As Ono put it: "It's like he was writing down us glimpses of what the future would Ramanujan left behind three notebooks packed with his formulas and loose pages He was still scribbling away four Ramanujan was only 32 years old. Most of his orthodox relatives stayed away tainted for having crossed the waters make it to the purification ceremonies When Hardy was invited to receive an honorary that the most significant achievement "I did not invent him -- like other great first really competent person who had the chance with satisfaction that I could recognize at "...my association with him is the We are left to wonder how many Ramanujans are in India or elsewhere today, This isn't just a story about It's a story about how educational Sometimes, the traditional classroom That's why I trust Brilliant - a website data science, and computer science interactively. Brilliant's &quot;Mathematical Thinking&quot; course tackle real-world problems involving No matter where you're at in your learning fit your needs and you can solve at I like to take a few minutes out of my day to sharpen my analytical thinking So why not try out Brilliant for FREE for 30 days by heading to the custom link in my And the first 200 people to sign up a 20% discount on Brilliant's Premium annual Thanks for watching. I'm Cindy Pom.