- I am here to tell you that we have never seen before. - [Reporter 1] Living off of stolen money and their victims can be left ruined. - And I didn't have other That was my million dollars. (R&amp;B music) - What's up, guys? It's @0 here. - [Narrator] Joel Ortiz is a kid that, from the outside, had He had just graduated as valedictorian from a college preparatory school and was given a full ride at UMass Boston to study computer science. He was expected to do great things, but I don't think anyone imagined that he would turn his prowess to stealing and extorting millions of dollars through a cyber attack that Yet, during his first year of university, that's exactly what he did. Overnight, Joel went from to the life of a billionaire son. Luxury cars, private jets, bottle service, he was seemingly invincible. While his victims were left in ruins, he was bragging about it on social media with no fears of being caught. But people don't break into There is a series of events that seem to have led Joel down this path, and it all started when he (tense music) - Joel grew up in Boston, Massachusetts. His mother was an She's also a 100% disabled Father was never in the picture. Joel grew up very poor, had no friends, made all his friends on the internet, including probably the folks that got him involved - [Narrator] What we're just the fumblings of a young teenager learning to cheat and exploit video games, but it helps us understand how he arrived at committing his later From the beginning, he was He's just shy of 13 when this video gets posted by a friend. - [Friend] And as you but my friend Joel, he is the host. - [Narrator] It's an advertisement for a Call of Duty cheat and they're charging people to access it. - [Friend] $20 PSN card or PayPal. - [Narrator] This friend to post his own video since one day later that's exactly what this kickstarted Joel documenting himself falling deeper and deeper into over the next six years. Taking a peek at his early videos, up until late 2013 he's posting more about modding, bug abuse, and hacking At one point, he even and it's much of the same. Here's the thing. A ton of kids were into but they didn't all go on to There's something deeper here. - [Joel] What's going This is WTF360Hitmarkah. - [Narrator] Joel is showing people how to upload gameplay footage via this workaround - [Joel] But basically, is basically save the video. - [Narrator] And pause. See those folders? There's one called Hacking stuff. Ooh, proof he's a lead hacker man. No. See, with respect to the Call of Duty mods he would often feature on his channel, like Joel was just a young teenager. He wasn't programming them. He was downloading them and then following tutorials But from where did these in the first place? Well, in multiple videos, and there's always this called NextGenUpdate. Many of his videos even have This form has been closed but it was one of the biggest communities for sharing cheats, exploits, But alongside that, there For some reason, much is linked with actual hacking communities. And on this form, there was sections for actual computer hacking. Just taking a peek at the people are posting remote which are used to secretly take control of someone else's computer, teaching about SQL phishing, encrypting malware, I mean, all of the foundations But then at the same time, you've got this more innocent side where kids are posting tips and tricks to get around security that run video games. And while Joel is getting - Before they were ever criminals, before they had any criminal they were just playing games together. It's on as early as 12-years-old. - [Narrator] By 2013, Joel is well into his freshman year of high school. By all accounts, he's a quiet kid, yet by night, he has this - [Joel] Grezwal, you're a (beeps) noob! How you know I was cursing? Hazard! Hazard! Hey, watch it! (Joel cheers) - [Narrator] It turns out is NextGenUpdate. By this time, he's among having made over 4,000 posts and was even trusted that eventually turned into Joel was like a god on this website. But his interest in hacking is starting to break partly because he's idolizing hackers by the most (R&amp;B music) - Yo, it's geohot. And for those that don't know, I'm getting sued by Sony. - George Hotz, aka geohot, from New Jersey, and he was the first person - We'll be releasing the method in a week. Hopefully, it'll be a - And last month, he was the first one to fully hack the PS3 console. (rap upbeat music) Those that can't do bring suits Cry to your Uncle Sam He released his code online - [Narrator] And Joel is condemning what he had been &quot;Exploiters are not hackers, modders are not hackers. Hackers cracked their way with no program.&quot; Out of business is jail for me You're suing me civilly Exhibit this in the courtroom Go on, do it I dare you Joel wanted to be that guy because right now he was a skid, someone who downloads programs, without any of the knowledge or capability to create their own. To be called a skid is an insult. And well, Joel was so it's at this point, 16-years-old, that he starts teaching himself And it's like the more he learns, the worse stuff he seems It started out super innocent, dudes bypassing some user permissions to run COD4 on a school computer, but then, he starts learning how to code, creates a little website, and there's one thing I He has this email It's a fake FBI domain. Dude was impersonating the FBI. But more importantly, it's a nod to the fact by this childish hacker culture where certain things were And while with his skills advancing, that can quickly become And this kinda comes into He's bragging about an allowing him to gain unauthorized access to people's accounts. Most people wouldn't post on Twitter that they're stealing email accounts, but maybe it's because to a young teen whose entire social life well, it's an echo chamber. Cybercrime was glorified, And well, things were about - I was really sad to have been kinda walking alongside Joel for a couple of years and to really see how hard he had been working. I can't live in his mind I'm not a young Latino boy So why he did it? I'm not sure. Does he regret it? I absolutely know he's very aware that his a positive influence in the world. - [Narrator] It's 2016 and Joel is in his last year of high school, really excelling academically, head of the robotics team, teaching other students how to program, and waiting to hear back from UMass Boston about his application to But at the same time, his night time hobby of posting video game Something else was grabbing his attention. And that's because just a couple months before he was set to graduate, liked it so much he even and it was about to change the - &quot;Tell us how you get the OG name.&quot; Ah, yeah, okay. So there's this guy by the name of, here let me link you. No, but he charges over a thousand. Like, if you want an OG @ name, it is like a thousand or 2,000, but he just sold me but his is like really expensive. So clearly have @Rice, right? I clearly have it. Like, to get these exclusive @ names, you have to pull a lot of strings. Here, I can show you (keyboards clanking) Yo, he told me not to show, damn. &quot;The @ will get banned if you show them.&quot; Okay, okay, I won't. Relax, relax, relax. Yo, my bad again, homie. The guy that sells @s, my bad. I don't like, am I supposed I don't know, but sorry for You feel me? I didn't know. I didn't know, man. Damn, he would've hacked (brooding music) - [Narrator] I think it was at this point that Joel realized there was in stealing and selling cool usernames. And he was about to graduate, about to have an entire summer to make a little change Joel gets to work. Just like the video, he's he's going after Instagram, trying to figure out how to get his hands on any username that he wants. This was not a new concept to him. I mean, he had made numerous references to OG usernames over the years because they were a huge part of Xbox and PlayStation culture, especially on sites like NextGenUpdate. Short usernames like are like status symbols Usually, it's people Twitch streamers, YouTubers, pro gamers, you get the idea. To have one, to some people, of wearing a Rolex and that's And so at first, he goes There's this method on NextGenUpdate called turboing. It was originally made popular It's a less nefarious hijacking method that uses a program to issue over and over again, many times a second until the name becomes available. Now, chances are the name will never become available because the owner will never change it. So instead, they look for then enter those into so when that person makes the sale and attempts to swap the name while the person running manages the claim at first, Now, here's the thing. NextGenUpdate didn't have a market for buying and selling Instagram handles. Sure, Joel tried to sell a few on there, but to really get customers, he had to join a new site: hackforums.net. Joel got so far down this rabbit hole, he himself went from just to eventually getting Check it out. In this video, he's showcasing how software one of his friends made is faster at claiming Instagram handles than a competing software, and they're selling it for $90 a pop. And all of this is kind He's making a few dollars, and for the first time in his life he's buying himself nice You can imagine how good this felt now to the kid who had previously how he had to run to because he had no money to fix it. Joel was clearly very motivated as a kid to escape his situation. He lived just south of Harvard University. He was surrounded by wealth, Maybe that's what motivated But this new money was coming in fast. Sometimes, in this community, people refer to it as printing. Meaning, money is so easy that it's like printing cash. But this wasn't good enough for Joel. Maybe driven by his he wanted more. To him, turboing was There was a golden carrot because the cooler the but these coveted names let alone for sale outside of hack forums. Which was a real problem being sold by other Hack Forum members because they had a rule against that. He would've got banned for scamming and made the pickings even smaller. He knew if he could just solve the puzzle of hacking into an Instagram account, he could steal any name he wanted and make thousands of dollars for potentially minutes of work. And since getting into this market, he was also making friends with (line swooshing) - [Speaker 1] It's almost cult-like how they go from being little DDoSers to slowly growing into SIM swappers where their moral compass just disappears. Like, once they hit a big target and get thousands of dollars, their egos just explode - [Narrator] Joel is that he wants to hack, and it's like a puzzle. Maybe he could try sending them a message, trick them into clicking a phishing attack. But no, most of these They're never gonna see that message, let alone fall for it. Maybe he could phish someone use their admin account but he's not even sure to that sort of thing. There's many ideas, but Joel is smart. Top of the class. On his way to top of the he lands on an approach. Maybe he could try just Click Forgot Password. It sends out recovery even reveals a few letters If he could fill in the blanks, figure out what the entire address was, maybe he could just hack their email, reset the Instagram account I mean, he already has experience taking over mail.com accounts, right? This is exactly what he sets out to do, but figuring out that email It's about making connections. Is there anything on their profile that will fill in the blanks? Maybe a real life name? Does their Instagram lead that will give it away? He's becoming an online but it's for nefarious purposes. He's growing more daring. Once he's found a likely email, it's a credential stuffing attack. Joel was a big fan of a now He was searching these emails on there and if the person ever in a data breach, which is quite common, it would show him their password. Then he could try to log Do you reuse the same If so, you are vulnerable and it's probably time to But by early 2017, this is He's getting into people's emails, taking full control of them, stealing all these really ones he would never get from turboing, and he's trying to sell them on Twitter. Joel had hit a little jackpot. These were worth thousands of dollars, but it was a lot of work. Finding accounts that is like finding a needle in a haystack. At one point, Joel even to help him automate this, promising OG names as payment, but one of the other &quot;You're trying to get a tool and it's not going to happen.&quot; The thing is, for Joel based taking these accounts was likely a rush. To keep getting that high, he was going to have to keep victimizing bigger and bigger targets, which was going to demand a new hack, one that could truly gain But Joel didn't know to pull this off on his own. But that didn't matter into a group of much more (soft music) - [Reporter 2] A group of SIM swappers called The Community. - [Doc] One second, you Then within 10 seconds, you instantly have $2 million, $3 million. It's like an insane natural (serious music) - [Narrator] Joel had built from selling a ton of So when other people in this market decided to create their own one specifically to trade rare usernames, well, he gets invited day one, member number 68, to register. It's called OG Users and it's Over 40,000 members would And immediately after joining, Joel makes his first post He has all these crazy handles for sale, charging thousands of dollars, and the comments are praising this. Saying things like, &quot;It's and questioning how it was even possible. He is immediately respected. This put him among a who had found ways to and to everyone else, they Many kids wanted to be like them. They thought they were rich. And so, naturally, a lot become friends with each other. There was this semi-public Discord server where they all hung out. They're playing Minecraft, but everyone has a cool username. They pick up Fortnite and Joel because he's about to But at the same time, they're all into stealing online accounts, so they're scheming new ways to hit bigger and better target. - 2017, we all know what happened then, and that's when all the that's when Bitcoin starts running. We're in the news, we're everywhere. People are hearing about it. - [Narrator] They had that allowed them to hack any and their first target was celebrities. Late August 2017, Selena Gomez has her With over 125 million followers, she's the most influential literally the biggest target. And the hackers, looking for attention, post uncloud photos of Justin Bieber, ridicule his small shrimp, and leave their @s as a claim for the millions of people of this stunt as media picked up the story. This was a big deal. Instagram immediately took action. Almost as quickly as they had found the bug responsible. In a press statement, they wrote: &quot;One or more individuals to a number of high contact information, specifically email by exploiting a bug in the Instagram API. No account passwords were exposed. We fixed the bug swiftly and are running a thorough investigation.&quot; But this bug was a lot more serious than this sanitized PR messaging led on. In the week prior to Selena, it had been used for The hackers coded scripts of exposing and logging to over 6 million accounts, which were now being sold on a newly created Fresh with an easy to use interface, charging $10 per search. Where do they advertise this? OG users, and of course, the Joel makes a post title, &quot;You can no longer hack with Phone or Email.&quot; He tried to himself and He goes on to tag the OG user &quot;Shoutout to @IslahGod and his crew for finally making And then, kind of surprisingly, Joel post a new video on his channel. It's showing the bug in And in the description, just seven days before the big incident. Joel clearly had some intimate relations with the people behind this attack to have this sort of insider information. But just having the phone of Selena's account wasn't Remember, Instagram said no passwords were exposed in the breach. This group was relying on another tactic, one that would have much (theatrical music) - [Reporter 3] West says started out hacking Instagram like Jennifer Lawrence and Selena Gomez. But West says the hackers soon realized they could make real money to steal cryptocurrency. - [Narrator] While Joel had of leak databases looking for passwords, his new friends were up to SIM swapping. - SIM swapping is a new way for crooks to essentially take over while they're sleeping. - [Narrator] By getting they're getting all of They could just reset the damn password to whatever they wanted. - [Gregg] And think If somebody takes over your phone, all these folks have to do to try to log onto to these accounts and then say forgot password. So then the password reset which is now controlled by another phone that you don't have. And they reset the passwords and now they have complete control over getting into all of your accounts. - [Narrator] Whoa, this is scary stuff. But surely it wasn't so easy, right? - [Doc] Back then, SIM - [Narrator] That's Joseph Harris. In 2015, he was raided by police after hijacking an Instagram car page that had over 3 million followers. He received a misdemeanor charge and was released on a $500 bail. Undeterred, he had into online fraud. Fast forward to now, he had become one of Joel's close friends. - [Doc] I have a burner Android phone that cost me 20, 30 bucks or some site or got off Craigslist. I have a SIM card that I from eBay or some reseller. I'm calling up AT&amp;T. &quot;Hey, I just got a new cell phone. I have a new SIM card. I'm trying to activate my And they'd say, &quot;Okay, You'd say it. Then they'd ask for your last You'd give it to them and you can buy it basically almost anyone's off the dark web for like three bucks, and they'll just activate And now I have the phone in my hand. And I'm going on gmail.com and I'm typing in the person's email, and then I see a phone option. I'm typing in that phone number and I'm getting a text directly Reading off that code, resetting that person's email password. - [Narrator] So this was it, the hack that could get into But you don't make millions of dollars SIM swapping high value Something else had been (light music) - When 2017 started, Bitcoin was trading just below a thousand dollars, up from the usual six to 700 range. - [Reporter 4] The value of a Bitcoin jumping to almost, very - Bitcoin's value had grown 10 times from the start of the year. And then less than two weeks later, it almost doubled again! - [Narrator] Almost of newly minted crypto millionaires. And being unreversible, it had long been the currency of choice when selling usernames because unlike PayPal, there to claw the money back. Super important when you're dealing with a bunch of online fraudsters. So, when Bitcoin was making Joel and friends realized they can apply all the same techniques to take over Instagram accounts to stealing from large crypto holders. (serious music) - [Reporter 5] For 35 years, Ann Marie Michaels, worked in crimping and saving to provide a future for their two children. - I looked down at my phone and I saw it suddenly go dead. - [Reporter 5] Within the information contained including access to nearly which had been stored - Probably the worst moment of my life. I just kinda sat there knowing that everything we had was gone. - [Narrator] Late 2017, early 2018, all these attacks are happening nonstop, but no one knows who's behind it. - I was at home at my desk and I noticed a notification and I thought, &quot;That's weird. I didn't make a withdrawal request.&quot; And then I look back at my phone and I saw that I had no service. - [Reporter 5] $1 Million, an overwhelming majority and the money for his daughter's education was all gone in less than one hour. - [Narrator] They're targeting speakers at crypto events, people sharing a little They were like modern day pirates, but instead of Adams, ones and zeros flowing across wires worth millions of dollars. But those ones and zeros belong to dozens and dozens of real people, real victims that Yet, despite this having no one had been caught. - I've run to the house at the same time. How could this be? I'm using authenticator. Everything should be safe, right? Notifications of password bypasses and successful SMS workarounds started popping up on my phone. And then another, and was compromised and yet They had my phone. - [Narrator] Maybe they This group had successfully into becoming multimillionaires, and they were about to live like it. (morose music) - [Reporter 6] They're dumping over $50,000 watches. - [Reporter 2] Group of SIM - [Reporter 7] They are flagrant. They're obnoxious. They have common things and they flaunt them. - What's up, guys? It's @0 here. - [Narrator] Having come from nothing, Joel was celebrating his He wasn't the poor kid anymore. And now, he wanted to be like a big shot Instagram motivational influencer, showing off his lavish lifestyle on his two newly acquired accounts, @0 on Instagram and @0 on Twitter. He apparently paid $40,000 for them, and his friends are all This was kind of their They're flashing huge wads of cash, showing off designer watches, buying whatever they thought Probably, the most bold one of Joel's close friends Dude was a year younger than Joel, just 19 at this point, and he had purchased We're talking a $300,000 car that he bought with stolen Bitcoin, and he's showing all of this on his Instagram account, @gameroom. This was becoming part - People between the ages of 13 and 25 who are living in their mom's basement, existing off Uber Eats, and all of a sudden they're It's the Bitcoin Bandit I've been in the kitchen Wrist twisting like a trick shot Most you rappers got - [Narrator] Songs written even started to come out. I just spent your whole rent check On a wristwatch 1080 Ti in my system I make your T-Mobile go missin' Out here respecting these women She tell me her problems, I listen I just pulled up in that foreign Made 50K off extortion My Twitter, you couldn't afford it - [Narrator] That would've on a new pair of Raycons, the sponsor of this video. And you don't need to steal millions of dollars to afford them. I am a big earbud guy, and I've gotta say, I'm impressed. Chiefly, I've always found other brands are uncomfortable to lay on, but because Raycons are designed to sit completely flush in your ear, I can't even feel them, can fall asleep in them. They're that comfortable. And that's just one benefit of their really well thought out design. I mean, I've never had them fall out even during a run when things tend to get sweaty and slippery. And the touch controls to change songs or answer a call or whatever are super convenient when down a treadmill. The sound is crystal clear too, like a mini concert in your head. I'm actually kind of sad on other earbuds in the past because these are my new daily drivers and they start at half the price of other premium audio brands. They've got headphones too, even a speaker with a battery So if you're ready to buy click the link in the description box or go to buyraycon.com/crumb to get 15% off your Raycon purchase. Thank you, Raycon. So, back to Joel. Having stolen millions of dollars, he was now making his He always wanted to go to this And now, early 2018, he's enrolled in his second year of university, studying computer science at UMass Boston on a full ride scholarship, and he's posting on OG users to see if anyone wants to come with him to Ultra during his spring break. And apparently when he even planned to go back next year. It really seemed that he had no idea any of this would ever come back to him. And with summer break fast approaching, he was planning his biggest trip yet: an entire month in LA to But that was going to cost a ton of money, and at this time, crypto was from its 2017 high. Every day, Joel will be drop by tens of thousands of dollars, and I think this drove him in pursuit of SIM swapping more money to keep up with this Because it's at this point, Joel and his group targets another high profile crypto investor. Except this time, after and cryptocurrency accounts, they get a little more daring. They call the investor's wife. Of course, she picks up, The call's coming from but it's these fraudsters, demanding she gets her husband And when that doesn't work, they started texting his daughter. You can mess with a man's money, but his daughter and wife? Well, it got real personal. Instead of going to a local police station where they'd have no idea let alone how to trace an unknown hacker, he went to a specialized that focuses exclusively on cyber crime. But it was going to take a little while for them to run an investigation. And in the meantime, a few more mistakes. (electric music) Late May heading into June, Joel, Xzavyer, and a had made it to LA. They're renting a $150,000 a month Airbnb in the Hollywood Hills. Throwing parties, going to a ton of concerts. (party goers chanting) It's like every 20-year-old's after seeing &quot;Wolf of Wall Street&quot;. And in the midst of to hedonistic activities, this is when they get the are soon to come crashing down. Joel makes a post on OG Users titled, &quot;FBI is doing investigations.&quot; He writes, &quot;I don't know why I'm just assuming Instagram or I don't know.&quot; But I think he did know. This subpoena request was made by the FBI asking Apple to give up all information relating to his account. And the date of the request shows it was made just weeks It seems they had been onto him for months before this most recent report to REACT. And the news just kept getting worse. Two weeks later, there's that Xzavyer is going to be arrested. It seems he crossed the wrong person who knew who he was, and got people to tweet this. Some of them literally tagging the FBI. It's hard to say how they Maybe Joel thought since he they hadn't found anything incriminating. Or maybe he knew it was coming while he still could. Either way, the entire was for Xzayver's birthday, and that was just six days away. They pull up to the Hyde and they're posting all these They've paid the club for a They're holding up signs standing around in circles pouring out $200 bottles of Dom Perignon champagne. Like, even @Vitaly is there But all of this boasting was and this is when the tables get turned. That night, they were held up and the next morning, Joel - What's up, guys? It's @0 here. I'm gonna be making a little livestream about what happened yesterday. Two guys came to the house with guns and pointed it at me and my friends. It's crazy. I was so scared. It was literally they're supposed I'm lucky I'm alive. They saw like over $40,000 worth of. I had like $8,000 cash and They saw a bunch of iPhones. The jewelry I lost, I That fact someone was It was just like. It really like screwed my mind a little. I'm just trying to like go back to Boston. - [Narrator] So now, having become the victim of theft himself, what does he do? He reports it to the Hollywood Division of the Los Angeles Police Department, even though everything stolen from him was boded with ill-gotten gains. Talk about being brazen. But that wasn't the mistake he made that would ultimately Ironically, while Joel were scouring the internet on crypto investors, law enforcement was doing the - These bad guys were but making rookie mistakes. - [Narrator] Joel obviously wasn't being super secretive online. And I don't just mean the If caught, he had basically He was posting videos of all they were finding that helped Exploits that let them break data leaks on big like T-Mobile that they abused to get private customer information. Heck, on multiple occasions he's complaining the website they used to buy social security numbers was down. At one point he was even asking about how to reduce his &quot;It's my first time Maybe a stark reminder that Joel was just a young adult after all. But this would be his fatal mistake. He writes, &quot;I did Bitcoin to so obviously IRS will see this.&quot; Except it wasn't the It would be Samy Tarazi, sergeant and an investigator So, you remember that guy who Joel harassed the wife and daughter of just two months before flying to LA? Turns out he only made off one of his least successful heist. Yet, just days after that they knew exactly who he was. - We just started looking of who took over the phone and we see that the victim's cell phone was in San Jose area. Then when it switches, it goes right to Boston We figured out it was and we sent off warrants to Google to ask for whatever data they had that correlates to that that the bad guy was using. We get a guy named Joel We got his whole account he's ever sent and received. And within those emails holding up his driver's license. - [Narrator] To sell on Coinbase, Joel had to verify his identity, and this was how. They also found emails from YouTube confirmations of all those In addition, they asked AT&amp;T linked to Joel's phone. At any point between they found approximately 40 numbers, all potential victims. So what did they do? They start ringing them up, and it's the same story every time. Their phone went dead, crypto So now they've got a ton of statements, but these guys don't They love to sit watching, waiting, collecting evidence to ensure they get a strong conviction. So there will be no doubt once they finally do make the arrest that the bad guy will be found guilty, will go to jail. Except, that was about to be cut short because after the robbery, He posted in Instagram heading back to Boston to go to a concert. But they were worried he would never come back. The race was on to catch with millions in stolen crypto. - We were working with the and we figured out which and which terminal he was Then we decided it'd probably be best to get him after he walks You know, puts all his luggage down and puts all the stuff in the bucket. And me and Caleb just walked up as he was walking through and we have our badges out. We arrested him at the airport on his way back to Boston. - [Reporter 8] Just as he was decked out in Gucci gear - [Narrator] Joel was the first person ever arrested for SIM swapping. He was charged with 41 identity theft, and But now, they had to figure - We were sentencing a hacker but who had committed a and that had caused so much damage. - By any standard, this The amount stolen was greater of the Great Train Robbery. - [Speaker 2] I think all SIM swap victims who have lost money are and certainly the SIM to see how much time he - We lost everything. I'm 50-years-old with two small children, and I'm facing no retirement because Joel Ortiz in one Everything we spent decades building. - [Narrator] Joel pleaded In effect, it was a guilty plea. At 21-years-old he was for stealing $7 million. But prosecutors have the location of Bitcoin - [Erin] Joel is arrested at LAX and what he has with him that's is he has a Ledger, and a Ledger is almost like a thumb drive that holds cryptocurrency. He gave 'em the password I had conversations with Joel and told him that we could be more lenient if he were to tell us where We know that he didn't get all He split it with his partners, but there was a significant - [Narrator] Today, Joel is If they're right, he will at 30-years-old to millions of dollars. - [Doc] Me personally, I Last talked to him, he said Crypto obviously tanked so it makes sense for it to be about three times less than what it had been when I talked with him last. - It shouldn't have been 10 years, and not even close. - [Reporter 5] Dennis Dawson Dawson says his client got a harsh deal for a non-violent offense, because Dawson says the court system wants to make an example of Ortiz. - Joel was a kid. He was 19 to 20. They do things to impress their friends. - [Reporter 5] But Seth Shapiro 10 years is not enough. Authorities only recovered about $75,000 of their stolen money. - Mr. Ortiz, I'm so sorry you'll be sitting in prison instead of using your incredible talents for something productive your growing years, your 20s. But you know what? I hope you grow from this and rejoin society and benefit the world. Find your soul in this time and God bless you in your new journey. Sincerely, you're Jeremiah Nichol. - [Narrator] As for his friends, five others were captured and charged in connection with the scheme. Kalvin Ung stole $1.5 to 10 years in prison. Nicholas Truglia stole $22 million and was sentenced to 18 months in prison. Ricky was ordered to pay and sentenced to 48 months in prison. Xzavyer is suspected of He was previously granted but the actual outcome of either due to his age or some deal he made with the prosecutors. And finally, Joseph Harris, charged with stealing $14 million from the San Jose-based He returned all the money, was sentenced to 16 months in prison, and got out early 2020. He has since turned his reporting exploits for pay to companies through instead of abusing them. - [Doc] I mean, Joel had a rough but he was kind to us as friends and I feel he got mixed Like a lot of us did. But at the same time, the The high from gaining millions of dollars in minutes is insane. So imagine how the low of So while we were young and made mistakes, stealing millions from people still is a horrendous thing to do. I needed jail and time away from the world to truly realize how bad it was. - [Narrator] But these arrests were just the tip of the iceberg. While SIM swapping isn't it's a bigger problem today than ever. - [Erin] It seems like every that hackers are convincing to change SIMs. - Ultimately, it's always gonna come down to human failures at large corporations. If you can trick, bribe, to do something bad, that's where the liability lies and they should be held accountable. - There's not much we can from the SIM swap happening. What we can do is protect ourselves from the damage that these crooks can do once they have control of our accounts. Every account that you have is going to ask you for and what you don't wanna - [Narrator] These guys have influencing countless fraudsters to come, but those are stories for another day. - [Joel] Anyways, guys. Thanks for watching this. This is Joel, and I'm out. Peace.