- It's Martin, we're making Everyday French Loaf. This is a beautiful new bread the &quot;Big Book of Bread.&quot; Come along for the recipe. (knife rasping) The way this is gonna work is that we're going to which is this flour, and then it's going to like 12 to 16 hours, overnight. You could do that in a bowl. On day two, you're gonna continue the So you can either do a bowl or if you want, and I will use a six-quart Cambro A very handy tool. I use a lot of Cambros in my own baking. We start with water in the bowl. And the water today is cool, and that's because this for a long time, right? If I use warm water, it's gonna rise quickly, and then it's gonna sort of be gassed out. And just a tiny amount of yeast. It's just enough to sort of initiate and continue fermentation There's no need with instant yeast to let it bloom or do anything. You can go straight in with your flour. I guess I should tell you a little bit about what a poolish is. It's equal parts flour There are a couple of mainly flavor, but also some So, everything in the bowl, stir to combine, and always scrape down your sides, do your best to clean the bowl. Clean your implements, make sure everything is tidy, and then you're just gonna cover it, and place it in an ambient for 12 to 16 hours. And what I mean by &quot;good&quot; in the hottest spot in your house, and you also don't wanna in your house. Put it someplace that's room temperature, 68 to 72 degrees, something like that. So, see you in 12 to 16 hours. I'm just making sure you can follow me. Look at you! You're so fancy. So good. All right, so I put my poolish and when you come back to it, it's right, it looks beautiful, it's exactly where it should be. The surface is covered with and it's got some sort It looks beautiful. If you smell it, it smells like bread. It smells cheesy, smells like fermentation. And that's kind of the You set something, let it rise overnight, it develops flavor, and then it goes into the final mix like some sort of bouillon The ease of mixing that is demonstrated here because the next step is literally just to pour the final mix water So, you can stir that up. You can use your hand if you want; you could use a spoon too. But what I advocate for is almost like a frothy sort of agitation. I get my hand in here and make sure everything is homogenous. Water is in there, pre-ferment's in there. I'm gonna get some yeast in. Also, my salt. And also the flour. You know, we're making bread today, and I'm using all-purpose flour, and maybe that's a little bit confusing, because people sometimes think, &quot;Well, bread flour for bread only.&quot; Not necessarily. Sometimes we want the It gives you a little bit softer crumb. All right, so everything in the bowl. This isn't a bread that you are going to dump out onto the counter and knead. A lotta breads in the don't get mixed in a machine, and they don't really And the reason for that into the flavor of And what that means is that I'm just looking to make sure and then I'm gonna switch for just a second. I'm gonna scrape down And I might just do a little bit of a sorta pressing motion. I'm just looking here to make sure I don't have any dry spots and that the dough is homogenous before it goes into the when I'll fold and sort of Okay, so that's the mix. Afterwards, you're gonna cover it, and you're gonna set a 20-minute timer, and then we'll come back and fold. You behave yourself, I'll come see you in a minute. The dough has had 20 minutes. It's been 20 minutes and we're at the point its first fold. The point of the fold is to and further strengthen it. As I mentioned, with a lotta hearth breads, we're using time and folds So, this is a bowl fold: With a wet hand, starting on the outside of the dough, I'm gonna work my way around the mass, stretching up and pressing to the center. I'm gonna do that until about eight to 12 times. You can see already that this dough, which started out as sort as I stretch it, you can see how it thins out beautifully. Look at that. People talk about the windowpane. We didn't have to mix we just had to use two things: one, time, and two, really good flour. And once it's there, I'm done, we're gonna set it aside covered, and then we'll Okay, done. Okay, we're back for the second fold. And this is another bowl fold, the same as the first one. The only difference is like eight to 12 times, I'm doing it about six to eight times. It's developing strength, and it doesn't need that Same motion as before: stretching from the outside, pressing to the middle. Cover it, give it another 20 minutes, and then we're gonna come Third and final fold, and this is a coil fold. This is the gentlest of folds that we'll do. With wet hands, I'm gonna go underneath the dough, just lifting it and It's not that stretchy. It seems like it's got a lot of strength. I'm just gonna set it down, coiling it over on itself. That's it. You can see how gentle that is. In some ways, this fold is almost like a check-in. I'm just sorta seeing what This dough is in very good Okay, so it's time for the divide. And I wanna talk for just a second about one of the things that In bakeries, we often have It's a bread with a pre-ferment, often a poolish, and we use it for a variety of things. We might make batards, we might shape some pan loaves out it, we might make hamburger buns, we might make pizza, or even focaccia, or even baguettes. It's a very versatile dough, and so even though the are for two batards or two boules, you could divide any shapes you want and make a variety of things. So, a little flour on top. And just looking at this dough, you can see, super happy, right? A little marshmallowy, ready for divide. And then what I'll do At this juncture, I wanna be tender with this dough, no aggressive handling right now. And then I'll just dump it out gently. And you can already see the A little bit of flour on top. And I'm gonna divide this batch in half. It's about 650 grams, somewhere right around there. See how I did? 650. 645. Okay. I'm gonna give these a So I'm working on a It's not a surface that's like that, right? I don't want that much flour, I just want a dusting, a light dusting of flour. A round preshape in many of a bowl fold, right? So I'm going from the outside, stretching the dough upwards, and then pressing in the center to seal. So gently stretching upwards, pressing to the center to seal, making my way around the mass of dough. The dough's a little sticky on top, so don't touch the sticky part. Where it's meeting your work surface, it's dry, right? And so that's where I'm gonna Making my way around, lifting up, stretching gently, pressing to seal, lifting up, just making my way around until it feels like it's tensioned, like I have a little bundle. After we preshape, these are gonna rest 15 to 20 minutes, somewhere around there. Put 'em on a floured spot and cover 'em. Today, I'm gonna shape these as batards, and then I'm gonna let them or a couche cloth. So for shaping, I like to work on a very So this dough has been proofing, or resting, seam side down, and I wanna have that seam on the interior of the final loaf, and so I invert it so that I'm working with the dough seam side up. I'm gonna pat gently to and then I'm ready to start shaping. I'm gonna stretch it gently I'm gonna fold it into Fold the other side into creating a little bit of tension. I just double check to make It feels good. And then, starting at I'm gonna roll it down, pressing with the weight of my hand and sorta sealing it in. So I come down, press to seal. Like that. I'm almost there. Now I'm just gonna give just a little bit. Just a little bit of a point to it. And then I'm gonna set it onto my linen. I'll make a little bit And let's do it again. Might need to reload your Just a little bit. Pat gently. That might sound rough, but I'm actually being pretty gentle. I'm just looking for any big bubbles. Fold it toward the middle a little bit. Pat again to remove any bubbles. Make sure that I'm not stuck to the bench. And then I just come down. Creating a little bit of tension. If you find yourself sticking, go grab a little bit of flour, and then come back. Just tension it. And then we'll cover 45 minutes, 60 minutes, keep an eye on 'em. Preheat your oven, get everything ready to go, it's almost time to bake. So these loaves have had 45, 60 minutes, somethin' like that. They are proofed, but they're not as well proofed as I might take something If you think about a pan loaf, you wanna proof it until of the way to its full Whereas, with a hearth loaf like this, I'm gonna catch it a little bit younger. If I press it with my finger, there's a little bit of bounce left. I want some bounce when I load it so that the loaf can spring and get some steam and does that allows it to have a nice ear, right? So don't wait until, you know, when you press it with a finger, it doesn't bounce back at all. That might be a little bit far. Good for ciabatta, good for a pan loaf, not so good for a loaf that Got my transfer peel here. I've got a piece of parchment. Now just as a reminder here, these loaves are proofing So I've gotta turn 'em over and then put 'em onto the parchment, right side up, meaning seam side down, if that makes sense, right? Lemme show you what I mean. These are big. This is about as big as I think, two loaves like this at a time. There's one. And there's the other one. Beautifully yellow dough. The yellow is from beta-carotene. It's a vitamin that's in wheat. And if we treat our doughs well, and if we start with a really the dough should have I always think of it as, like, sunshine. It's sunshine that that great and now it's giving it back to us with beautiful color and There's a lot to be said about scoring. My best advice, though, is just don't let that or your concern at this moment. Just be confident, jump in there, go quickly, get it wrong a bunch of times. I promise you that you'll never catch up to the number of mistakes So I'm gonna give this loaf three cuts. There are lots of options. There are even some diagrams in the book for different choices that you can make. So I'm gonna cut it three times. One, two, three. You can actually see of the dough where I cut it. It looks beautiful. (steam hissing) (gentle elegant music) (Martin chuckles) (loaf crunching) (chuckles) I'll never get tired Super light for the size too, which for me is a sign Like, if I look at it and if I pick it up and it doesn't feel dense or sort of heavy for a hearth bread, that tells me that the while having good overall volume. I'm excited about that. I'm also lovin' the crust. We added steam during the bake, and as the loaf cooled, it sort of cracks. And it's a hallmark of is to have that sort of cracking, that like shattering crust, which tells me that And now they're cool enough There's a nose to it that's The only thing missing is Thin crust because of the steam, because of the good Beautiful. (gentle elegant music) So, y'all, this is the It's one of over 125 recipes We're hopin' that you're gonna come along, we got a lot more videos This is Martin and Tucker Get out there and bake some bread.