- Google's newest office is It was built inside and on but step inside this and you'll see Google's latest which is flexible and changeable. No one's gonna get mad at me. I can have the desk however I want? - That's right. - It should be about solving for tomorrow. Things that we can't even anticipate. - Google's St. John's Terminal was designed for, well, working mostly. That means, unlike it's there aren't any tables for this. No ping-pong in this? I mean, I brought my own paddles. We took a tour with the project's leads to get a closer look. (upbeat music) St. John's Terminal is part of Google's growing campus on the West Side of Manhattan. The company paid $2.1 which was built in 1934 as a freight train terminal. - Trains used to come from upstate and bring food, provisions. It would come into the building in the railbeds. - [Reporter] Railbeds where the Google logo now sits. The tracks stretched up to a public park on the - This is the one place in all of New York where I really wanted to The St. John's Terminal spanned and made this dark tunnel. So the very first thought was to cut through the building, expose West Houston to the sky, and connect our neighborhood - [Reporter] Then to transform CookFox added nine floors on top of the existing rail terminal. - In a city of skyscrapers, we wanted to develop a ground-scrapper. - So this building is even at 12 stories? is way longer than it is tall. Yes. - [Reporter] When St. it had some of the largest At more than 100,000 the terminal could hold - This space that we're standing in is actually larger than the hall inside Grand Central Terminal, to give you some perspective. - This space? yes. - What is it about the building that makes it suitable for Google? - The large floor plates allow for a very flexible workplace. The heavy floor loading, the tall ceilings, the big windows, bringing natural light in. All of those things lend towards an excellent workplace of the future. - [Reporter] One of the biggest and Google's other US locations is who works here. - The building was built around the needs of our global business organization. These are business professionals. - Not engineers. - Okay. So what do these teams need? Lots of places to meet their clients. Ice cream matcha. - The way that the furniture was selected was to encourage a more comfortable and relaxed posture. And then surrounding it, all of the components that you see, they're all just reinforcing this notion that everything is lightweight enough for you to take it in your - I think it just lowers the temperature and the sense of intensity that often comes with You can immediately grab a coffee and have your meeting. - For meetings that Google built Share, a full-service restaurant for Is it as hard to get a reservation here as it is in Soho? (laughing) - It's a little easier here. Of course, there are and meeting rooms for Googlers. Here, those spaces are and each team has one of their own. - And that team decides how they wanna configure the neighborhood, the mix of fixed desks versus more informal workspaces, communal tables, those sorts of things. - [Reporter] So it would be - Do you wanna move a desk? a desk. - Let's move a desk. - That corner. And then we can-- we're coming this way. that way, yeah. All right. I can have the desk however I want? - That's right. - [Reporter] Each neighborhood has its own dedicated meeting rooms. So Googlers don't have to fight for the rest of the building to book a space for a team meeting. And that's where the - They could say, &quot;Our team we're closer to units of four versus a unit of eight. So we'd like to have two - So this space could be two - Absolutely. - [Reporter] Google's R&amp;D team, Gensler, and the modular interior developed a custom So teams working on the can adjust their room From an eight-person meeting room, to a pair of four-person team rooms, to a pair of two-person shared offices. (upbeat music) Why is it important to create a space that is completely changeable? - Because business keeps changing. In order for us to keep the workplace desirable and essential, it needs to be moving with and enabling innovation, not holding it back. - [Reporter] At St. John's Terminal, neighborhoods are only Here, roughly equal floor space was given to shared workspaces, which include expansive cafes, terraces, micro kitchens, and more. Even though these workspaces lack desks, they're still built for work. Why is it important to make - Why not? In today's world, people are on the move and they have so many for how they wanna work best throughout not only their work day, but their work week. And what we felt was that if we enabled the opportunity for somebody to find a space to work effectively, we should take it. - A lot of these spaces are designed to feel like libraries or coffee shops. As we've walked through this space and seen the kind of amenities that are offered here, it's hard not to notice that it feels maybe a bit more grown up. - When we were building this building, we wanted it to feel like New York, but we also wanted the sense of nature and connectivity and calm that often isn't associated with New York, because we know as human beings, that's what we need to be productive. - [Reporter] To fulfill the team put in about 1.5 acres of native plants on terraces here. When we were there, we saw a garage door kind of open up and welcome employees to the outdoor space on the top levels. - So sometimes this and connection to nature is very nuanced and subtle, and sometimes we like to be quite literal. So the garage doors on the north and south that could literally open up and connect you indoors and outdoors with nothing separating you, that was part of the design from day one. - [Reporter] Of course, more than just plants. Even though St. John's the open space around it allows clear views in all directions. It's hard not to notice - There are so many options for office buildings in the city, and we looked at so many before zeroing in on It's incredibly special in of the overall city. (upbeat music) - One of the most important things is how this building is of New York. And many people have a bias thinking about tech having an introverted quality to them. And I believe St. John's Terminal is fundamentally different in that it's absolutely integrated and part of a neighborhood. - The addition of St. John's Terminal has made Google's New the second largest after its home base in Silicon Valley. Is Google just trying to - (laughing) No, not quite. I think we're done for a while. - What Google has tested may be replicated in any but by then, St. John's Terminal could look quite different. So if you come back here in 10 years and things look different inside, but you're just here for lunch, that's success. - That's success. - Got it. - This space should patina in a way that none of us can predict, but is going to be the because the Googlers did it.