- Wow. The feedback is crazy. Wow. I just want to keep playing it. Can you see the smile on my face? (Grunts) (Slams) Here I have some fantastic This is the CSL DD a direct that promises to deliver the performance of a $1000, $2000 or $3000 - $500.(Chuckle) That's insane. Let's check it out. Every driver has their limit. Yeah, that's definitely My limit is further than others. Oh, this is like a flex thing here. - (Guest Speaking) - Go away, Riley. Okay. We got the manual in the box. Oh, it's a quick, quick guide. Presumably to Mount the We don't need that. We get some stickers. Oh, this is so cute. Look at this, Andy, do you want a sticker here give me your forehead. Thanks, Andy. Woah, look at this. This is actually really, really smart. They put holes in the cardboard. Pretty Cool - (Guest Speaking) Yeah. It's probably Stuff in the box, I reckon. I think these are for, if you you would slide these into housing and then thread So we won't Need those. We have, oh, look at that type C. - [Guest] Yaay. Wow. Throw the box Away. (Chuckle) This thing is chunky. Oh. (Grunts) Wow. It's really heavy. (Grunts) It's really heavy. Ohh, Oh My Gosh, Wow. Oh, they didn't put That's it? That's all. That's all that's in the box. This Is impressive. Oh. (Grunts) This This, Totally makes sense. I mean, what you have is a giant and then inside the motor in just a ton of copper. So the fact that this is Oh we got a Wow, that scale is terrible. Why would anybody want that? Ohh. 11 pounds, Wow. It is. Like I said before, a really nice machine to aluminum housing. It looks like it sort of You could probably take this apart. Should we take this apart? - No, really? Oh, they're just hacks. Oh, we're totally taking this apart, John. Oh, John oh we must, There's not really any moving parts. Like this shaft should magnetically and the rest electronic and crap. So yeah. We're totally taking this apart. It's got some torque. Oh, this is plastic. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Okay. So the, the ends are plastic, but the main housing is Oh my God. You ready Brandon? (suspenseful music) Oh, no. He can't see anything. Damnit. It's all hidden. Oh. - [Guest] You can't go farther than that - No. I can't, But look at that machining. Oh, so nice. Is this the type of aluminum extrusion? Somebody in the comments? Let me know. Anyways. So if we could we're going to show you some You would see the star of this show, which is the custom They made specifically for this unit. Now, if you don't know there's a couple of different types. You can either get a direct drive. You can get a belt driven or And now typically for budget wheels, which I mean can be anywhere which is sort of your budget You're going to see a lot of And basically what those have which will then use gearing or a belts ratio to increase the torque. But on a direct drive, you And none of that gear, that means there's going and you're gonna get way And in the case of this unit, we're also gonna get a lot Now, the wheel I usually use at home Is a thrust master T-300 I'm not like a crazy Umm, and that guy, I think outputs around 3.9 Whereas this unit with will do eight Newton meters. Which is, which is double. That's uhh. That's a lot of torque. Okay. So a bit of a correction here. Uhh. It turns out this is just the It's a 90 watt unit. And then We don't have that one, unfortunately, but we will at least get to experience it in 5 newton meter mode Okay, Let's put this thing - (Guest speaks) I don't know if you can read this as part of our standard QC process. This wheelbase has which causes slight marks this product, whereas this Oh, that's cute. Before connecting the please install the latest Fanatec driver, then update the wheelbase firmware. Okay. We can do that. Let's try mounting it to the desk first. Oh, the sticker is terrible. Oh No, Fanatec why? The goo is coming off. It's just a lot of paper. You got a knife? I'll use this plug. See how this Goes. Cool that worked. All right. This worked I'm good. So I think I need to affix this but maybe not. I mean, does this have a quick I think I'll read the manual. It's probably a safe bet. Cool. This is useless. Says nothing about the You Know, it's always weird You're like, this should be in a car. (Funny Noise) - [Brandon] It has plastic handles. - It Does have flappy paddles. but this guy goes on here I'm pretty sure. Ooh. (Sratching Noise) Remove with care. Oh, Oh yeah. This one's plastic. Like it's, it's a, it's that like doesn't rip. How do I, oops. Oh, oh. Oh, I see. Cool, that's like the, uh for like the buttons and stuff Its backwards, there we go, oh nice. Wow. This is a lot of, there's I like that they use All right, I'm done. Cool. All right. So we've got our quick Oh There we go. Wow. Nice. (sigh) Now just one more thing to do. It is a substantial amount of stuff to do. (Guest Speaks) Like, I am not denying in any way, shape, Or form that this is a (Chuckle) Well it depends how much because I, it is so much better when you So I think that has to go in there. This guy definitely goes under the table? And then I think we get this guy to go on there for extra torque. It's like the it's the boost kit, but for this handle, and then, no... there we go. (Grunts) Oh it's so heavy LTT store.com (Chuckles) That is janked. I mean, I I'm worried this Ikea table or break some of this plastic. Okay. Yeah. That's, that's totally fine. Yes. There's pedals. Oh we haven't even done that yet. (Honking Noise) Please tell me the pedals Whoa. That's got a little Spongy. See that little sponge in there. I get it. The reason is so you can customize it. If I put it like this, Like maybe I just have to move that we have a clutch pedal. I actually, I have experienced the reason that you're not supposed and I go to press the brake as I'm going around the corner, like and my foot slipped off. And then my flip- flop got so I couldn't press it. And I ended up like scraping Okay. We got gas. We have brake, squishy brake. I guess it's time to go set but not before I tell Private Internet Access private internet access is a services and websites as if you Not only that, but Pia traffic and uses a safe, protected IP. And you can connect up to 10 for windows, Mac, OS, Whew. So check it out at the link get a one-year plan for only 39.95. I got the wheel and the pedals And we actually had to The steering wheel itself and the motor and we've which is usually my It's got presets, but So we kind of have to set this up manually there's our steering axis, brake, brake. Press that. That needs to be inverted Specifically. I wanted to import the car that I own right now, which is an E60 M5 And we're going to do and see how that goes. (Chuckles) Oh yeah. Oh wow. The force feedback is, oh, this almost feels like a real car. Oh that, oh, oh. Oh man. The pedals are too close together. The force feedback is incredible. And this is not even with the boost kit. That's incred..this..that's crazy. What is that number? Oh, I'm going to go on the dirt. I'm going in the dirt. Wow. The feedback is crazy. Oh boy, I'm going way too Oh, Oh man. - Whoa, the steering is not. I think I have some There's so much feedback in this wheel. It's shaking the whole desk. Uhh these pedals. Look at this. There we go. That's proper. Now I have no excuses for sucking. Oh boy, (laughter) I should have picked an easier Oh, oh, (laughter) come on. Oh man. I definitely started to get the there, but wow. That's (chuckle), I've never actually played on the sharpness and the is unlike anything I've played before. Like this is so much better. And when you consider the high-end belt-driven wheel, uh high-end a good belt driven wheel. Like a thrust master T-300. And we don't even have the boost pack. Holy Crap. Wow. I just want to keep playing it. Can you see the smile on my face? Oh my God. The pedals feel good. It's just. They're not So, they're kind of I'm impressed. Good job. Fanatec. I am I'm genuinely impressed. Should we get somebody else to try it? (chuckle) Andy's a drift guy. - Oh Wow - Forgot. It's 500 horsepower. - Oh My God. This is - (Laughter) Ohhhh, (Laughter) - And there's deer. This car sucks. (Laughter) - Do you want a different I'll give you a Porsche or something. You are, you are just Whoa, this car's fast. Does it feel like it handles better? - Oh yeah, - Definitely a little. Oh, oh you're going a little fast. But it recovers so easily. Wow. - Yeah So compared to like the Logitech wheel you were using before, What do you think? - This is like a hundred This feels like driving a real car. - I want your you're out of 10. Have you, have you tried - No, no, no. I give you like 9.5 but the 0.5 is because it - Well, we can add a clutch - But yeah. So this setup 9.5 - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. All right. Well there you have it. Clearly, this is a fantastic product. I mean, I still have and I'm not even driving. I don't think that speaks for it enough. So maybe check out my short circuit that I did on the flight SIM I think Andy, did you fly in that? - Yeah, yeah, yeah I did. - Yeah he flew in that. We didn't get. - Off camera We didn't get to the office, - I did. - Oh you did Like off camera though. - It wasn't in the video. It Get subscribed and uhh, maybe uhh, leave a