Such a man He became a vegetable It's really a waste of natural resources Have to try it out Could it be Really a vegetable Let me try Aren't you tired of pretending for so long? There are only two of us here now You can get up now Although I am pretending to be a vegetable But this body is really toxic. If this continues Live 5 years at most So I have to pretend to be a vegetable to protect myself A smart guy. Your poison I can help you solve but We have to cooperate If you reinstall I'll do it. You are quite courageous. Who sent you? In this world No one can send me yet. Visitors Please get in the car, Miss. Just so few people Missy You go back The Yun Family needs you You are the ones who forced me to come here Now I am asked to go back and marry Or you You guys are so shameless Your mother's death Aren't you investigating secretly? The Yun Group, founded by your mother Are you willing to give others such a cheap I will definitely find out the truth. My mom's I want to take it all back I'll leave for a while matter You continue to investigate Yunxi You are finally back Your aunt left you in the countryside. There is really no way The situation at home is not good Now you are back We are a family. Finally we can reunite Ouch Should I call you aunt? Or should I call you stepmother? My mother got hurt as soon as I came back. Poisonous Woman A country boy indeed. You and the plant They are truly a perfect match. You and the speechless vegetable It's more suitable. You're getting married now But the top wealthy Qin family That Young Master Qin o. Although I am a vegetable now Marry You are such a lowly bastard. Then you marry yourself. Isn't it just a perfect match? So much nonsense. Anyway She will get married sooner or later. If that's the case, You can let your daughter Marry into a wealthy family Cheap for me Is there any mother like you? You little bitch Let me go Shufen Look at your beautiful daughter. I said two words to her She also took action Yunxi I am your father I let you marry You have to marry You can marry me. Give me back my mother's company. Yun Group is my mother's hard work. I will never let it Fall into your hands Yunxi company It's also your mom and me. A lot of hard work certainly You are our daughter Do you want to come back and run the business together? That's OK After you married into the Qin family You can come back to study at any time I don't want to go back to the company to learn management What I want is The Yun Group founded by my mother I want to take back everything that belongs to my mother To get my mother's company back We must use the Qin family as a springboard Qin Qiongyi I want to see What kind of person is my husband? Such a man He became a vegetable It's really a waste of natural resources Have to try it out Could it be Really a vegetable Let me try Aren't you tired of pretending for so long? There are only two of us here now You can get up now Although I am pretending to be a vegetable But this body is really toxic. If this continues Live 5 years at most So I have to pretend to be a vegetable to protect myself A smart guy. Your poison I can help you solve but We have to cooperate If you reinstall I'll do it. Reinstall I'm about to start You are quite courageous. Who sent you? In this world No one can send me yet. What did you do to me? But I just stabbed it Why is Mr. Qin so nervous? Speak What do you want? I can help you detox. but I have a condition You will detoxify Why should I believe you? This is simple You can try It seems Bringing joy is still useful today It's their wedding night. Stay here well No one is allowed in. yes Forgot what grandpa said just now Today is our wedding night Just like you Still thinking about that matter It seems We need to investigate this woman. Xixi What you returned today Everything is ready for you. grandfather Actually, it is not necessary The doctor has just come. Talk about abnormal conditions Almost recovered. It won't be long He'll wake up. Yunxi, this wild girl I haven't settled the matter with her yet. If she dares to come back today I will teach her a lesson. Qin Shao dressed like this What to do I accompany my wife back to her parents' home What are the questions? You'd better be quiet. We don't interfere with each other's business If you make me angry Your illness won't be cured. He has a bad temper I tell you What about me But in fulfilling my husband's duties You better be careful Don't let them recognize you. Ruined my business rest assured A small family like the Yun family You are not qualified to see me. Madam What's the matter? If you have something to say, just say it Missy I'm here Miss Yunxi is back What else am I supposed to do? I'm back, right? Do you want me to pick it up myself? Need not I have legs You can walk in by yourself Don't think that marrying into the Qin family That's amazing. You're just a wild girl Do less of those The Dream of a Sparrow Transforming into a Phoenix This slap is to tell you I am Mrs. Qin now housekeeper Where is Yunzhenxing? Call him out housekeeper yes Yo Xiaoxi is back dad Look at her attitude Uneducated Shut up You know something Don't make her angry all the time. I'm here to take it back My stuff No rush Come Tell Dad How are you doing over there? Are they nice to you? Don't change the subject Let's clarify the company transfer first. Let's chat about family matters You don't understand the company's affairs Dad runs the company very well. You don't do anything Can you be the boss? Why give her the company? She's already married. So you guys want to go back on your word. Your father is also afraid that you will be cheated So I help you run the company. Could it be Don't you still trust your dad? I just don't believe you I tell you Yunxi We from beginning to end I didn't want to give you the company. Visitors You thought you were back Can I take Yun away? I'm looking at you You're stupid. Visitors Throw her out for me. You dare I even dare to take your mother's company I'm still afraid of you I wonder who dares to touch me. Do you really think Mr. Qin Will he break up with the Yun family because of you? Visitors you What are you going to do? You have to dare to move Your father won't forgive you. Rebellious Girl Try moving her. Yunxi You little bitch Bitch Who are you talking about? You're looking for death You little bastard How dare you go against me? dad Don't let her go Are you all just eating dry food? Let's go together Go up This this A bunch of trash I clean the house Dare to attack the young lady Earthquake Yunxi You're taking it too far Even your dad beats you. Our master said Dare to attack the young lady That means you are making things difficult for the Qin family. Yunxi What if you marry into the Qin family? You're just a replacement. I'll tell Master Qin when I get back. Yunxi is just a village girl It will only bring shame to your Qin family. Our master said again As long as the young lady is willing What if I give Yun to her? Give you a second Sign or not sign I sign I sign Let's go, Madam. You're asking me to plan ahead Treat you like your mother You keep staring at me Blind your eyes interesting If you don't want to die Stop talking nonsense You want me to heal you. You have to cooperate with me I am in the Qin family. Looking for a free place to stay What about this card? 1 billion It was the betrothal gift that grandpa promised to give you. In this case In exchange I'll treat you. treat I don't do needles. No acupuncture No acupuncture No needles, no piercing Boss You finally answered the phone. Just received a message Yun Zhenxing uses Yun You to get close to the Gao family I think he wants to use the Gao family to suppress you. I see I will pay attention You guys have been paying more attention recently. OK That boss Are you okay? You have something to say Don't get so close to me You are afraid of me Why should I be afraid of you? Don't forget that your life is in my hands. Xixi What are you doing Your eyes are so pretty Qin Qiong, let me go If you don't let me go I'm not being rude to you. Xixi And you Otherwise, call me husband. Otherwise, just call me dear. I think his name is Qin Qiongju. you Murdering your husband, right? Qin Shao Your physical condition It's almost recovered. but We still haven't found out The Young Madam's Medical Skills Where are you from? Let me continue checking Isn't that Yunxi? I'd like to see what you're going to do. Ling Er How's the matter I asked you to investigate going? We have already reported to Qin Group Send out the bait President Qin really followed the clues. Found us And proposed cooperation Qin Rong Zheng After Qin Shao fell into a coma Qin Rong Zheng Zhan Ju Liao Qin Shi De Hua Yu Quan So to speak I saved Qin Qiong but Que Yi Wai Pi Liao Qin Rong Zheng De Hao Shi Did you see it, Mr. Gao? Not bad, not bad As long as you bring her to me The project you ran I signed immediately good A promise is a promise A promise is a promise I'm going to the bathroom. good My sister is so anxious What are you doing? Yo I haven't been scared yet. elder sister Why are you here alone? Yes or no Your dying husband Makes you too lonely Come out and find a man You can't spit out ivory from a dog's mouth Yun Zhenxing is really shameless For business Let you come out to accompany the man how Learned your mother's housekeeping skills What nonsense are you talking about? Miss Yun Why don't you give me a drink? What are you? Yunxi What do you think you are? Mr. Gao But he is the CEO of a listed company. Inviting you to drink is a sign of respect for you Don't be so ignorant. What if I don't know what's good for me? I did the marriage for you. Now you still want to step on me to climb up Shut up how I got it right and I became angry. Yunyou If you see me next time, take a detour Yo yo yo Not bad Hot temper but The hotter you are, the more I like you. Visitors Hold her down for me. Pour to death Weren't you quite arrogant just now? How about this? As long as you drink this glass of wine Tonight, I Let you have a good time you you What are you going to do? Mr. Gao See you later, take a detour Otherwise it wouldn't be like this. Sister Xi Are you okay? We have to leave something behind. Only then can we be worthy of her painstaking performance. cock Are you recovering well? Did he invite some miracle doctor? Or your bride? Is there really any magic? My wife It's quite special. I can't believe it You got married so early. If you wake up Announce the marriage news I don't know what it will be like outside. You'll know tomorrow. Gone So fast Why don't you go back? My wife is going to worry cock You have changed The Master has woken up. At present No big deal good well Really The ancestors appeared Grandpa thought you Can't wake up Come She is your daughter-in-law Our lucky star After marrying in You wake up grandfather Ah Yi, he just woke up Still need time to rest I think Let's sleep in separate rooms first. No, no, no Just married How can we divide the room? grandfather My wife and I Let's talk You take a rest first Good good good Communicate more Take rest Wife It's a bit excessive We just got married Not very good Qin Qiongyi I've been sleeping on the sofa all this time. That really wronged my wife. Start Today We two sleep in one bed Don't worry What about me I won't worry about it. You take advantage of me Let me go I won't let go What to do Qin Qiongju I can save you Can also kill you Master Madam is asleep I asked you to check the things Any clues? not yet Yun Shijiu's whereabouts are too difficult to track She deliberately erased her tracks Unable to track Yunxi's treatment method Heyun 19 How come they look so similar? She and the strange doctor Yun Shijiu What does it matter? You go to the country where the lady lived. I want to know everything about her yes Xixi Yun's capital shortage Xixi How have you been at the Qin family recently? Stop pretending Speak What do you want from me? Xixi Mr. Qin said Bring him joy to his grandson Give us Yun Invest 1 billion Ask him See when to vote Grandpa said that the money was given to me He didn't say To invest in Yun Group You heard it wrong. The money You probably embezzled it, didn't you? Embezzlement That was the betrothal money I got when I married into the Qin family. how Have questions? you Xixi Now Yun's capital shortage See if you can Take out the 1 billion first. Wait until Yun's funds are circulated Return it to you Is it ok? Yun Group is in trouble What does it have to do with me? That's right Forgot to tell you Because you don't want to give up Chairman's position So I put Yun Group Export goods are detained So you think I will invest money in the company Help you through the hard times? Rebellious Girl Are you trying to piss me off to death? Rebellious girl My wife's skills are getting better and better After a few days of acupuncture Feeling much better Qin Qiongju I made it very clear I'll give you acupuncture We don't interfere with each other But now you call me wife It really makes me uncomfortable to be called accurate Unhappy that is It's my husband's fault. roll Let me go If you don't let me go I'm not going to be polite. Look I am so obedient But my wife Please don't be polite to me. What about me I like you to be rude to me. I asked you to be polite to me Don't understand? Next time if you do this again Then he has to be careful. if If you don't like this Then let's change our posture Hurrah If you want to become Really vegetative words master You are back Aju You woke up Dad is so happy that How does it feel? Do you want to find some more experts? Let me show you That's not necessary, Dad. But I can wake up this time You should be surprised. dad You are back Sit down and have breakfast I have eaten Go up and take a shower You guys eat first. etc. Hehe This is Aju's father. Xixi Your wedding gift I'll make it up to you later. Thank you, Dad. Qin Qiongyi Why aren't you dead yet? You want to completely disrupt my plans. Who let you in? Wife I am just Let's see if I need acupuncture tonight. Don't be so sensitive. I'll say it one last time Don't call me wife. Don't blame me for being rude. You won't let me call you my wife. So what do I call you? Call you Xixi Xiaoxi Baby Baby You pick one how Don't like it It's okay. I like it after listening to it I think you are not used to my needles. Xixi I like you the way you are now Did You Know What do I want to do now? Do you know my needle? Where do you want to be most? Xixi Keep going Grandpa is fine. Keep going. Then we Qin Ruanyi, you are going too far What score I don't do this to other women. I do this to my wife. What's too much? Do you believe I will send you to hell? My life was given by you. If you want to take it You can take it anytime So I'm a normal man, too. Then do what needs to be done What's wrong rogue grandfather It's over so quickly. Not grandpa's. This thing, Aju He's still a man. It's useless. housekeeper housekeeper Be more prepared Ten-ingredient tonic soup Put more Aphrodisiac Wife If you need anything, you can tell me. This kind of thing is not good to report. Shut up Wife Otherwise tonight I'll let you see me Real strength So that grandpa won't doubt me. Yes or no If you keep talking nonsense I'll make you dumb If you are in love I can help you Wife Is this fulfilling the obligations of a couple? I must need your help. Are we a couple? Yes or no you Aju You take it easy. That's not right Aju Seems to have recovered. Aju The aphrodisiac drug Do you still want it? What kind of yang I'm aphrodisiac Grandpa Pooh One section is better than six sections Aju Grandpa will hug me soon Great-grandson I'm planning to host a party Make me happy too dad Aju woke up It is indeed worth celebrating It's better than this Let me handle it. good He is about to have a great-grandson. ah Qin Qi woke up Heard The Qin family is going to hold a banquet Say yes Birthday to Mr. Qin mom It's all your fault I was not allowed to marry. If I marry What's up with Yunxi now? Earthquake You said that Mr. Qin suddenly woke up. Will it be a disability? mom Why don't you understand? Is Mr. Qin disabled? That bitch They are all his legal wives. You can inherit property. Earthquake We have to find a way Can't let that little bitch Compare us to Don't you forget That little bitch But I am Xiaoyou. Married That's the time. We'll put all this Blame it all on that little bitch Just say Xiaoyou was not feeling well at the time Let her There is an opportunity Bitch, what qualifications do you have to compete with me? Poor guy Yo Lying on the ground pretending to be dead Aren't you very arrogant? This skirt costs 50,000 yuan I think you can't afford it. You are just pretending to be dead here. Too much Is it a big deal to have a few bucks? Why do you humiliate others like this? I think the little girl looks unhappy. Call 110 Can't you see she's pretending? To stand up for her Pay her the money first. Where is the store manager? Call 120 immediately She had a heart attack Who am I? Pretend to be a good person here Why call 120? In my opinion You should call 110. Store Manager She's out of breath. What Xiao Xiao Ran Xiaoran, what's wrong with you? Don't scare me Send her to the hospital immediately She has a history of coronary heart disease good Xiao Ran Zhao Shufen is usually like this Did you teach me? Bullying Unreasonable If it hadn't been for the timely rescue You are the murderer Why did you hit your sister? Don't make random connections I'm not like that. The rude sister Yunxi I tell you It's okay if you bully your sister normally. You beat her today. Don't think you are the young lady of the Qin family You can do whatever you want I tell you I'm not afraid of you Miss You have seriously affected us. Doing business security guard Drive her away This is your service attitude Master The young lady is at Baiyi Shopping Center Argued with someone Walk Let's go see the excitement What are you still standing there for? How dare you touch me? Your general manager Chen Chao You have to serve me tea and water You guys deserve it Just you You are also worthy of knowing our general manager Sorry, we will deal with it immediately Just you You are such a lowly person. Not even worthy of carrying my shoes You dare to do it? Our Yun family's face You've lost everything. She's a wild girl from the countryside. very good Dare to challenge my bottom line I'd like to see Can Yun Zhenxing protect you this time? Don't worry Everyone has a share You bitch I'm going to sue you for intentional injury. Sue You think I'm afraid of you Hello Chen Chao Get off me right now. I was bullied in your mall. This woman actually knows Mr. Chen Just because of her Do you know Mr. Chen? In my opinion She's just showing off. Mr. Chen But the president of our 10 billion group How could a small person like her see such a Drag her away now. Chen Chao This is the employee you trained. One by one, dogs rely on their power I think you don't need to open this mall anymore. Yes, yes, yes You are saying I will definitely strengthen the training in this area Guarantee next time The same thing won't happen again Mr. Chen Our Cloud Family But you are a big customer of the mall What do you mean? Protecting her and ignoring me Yunxi I thought What are you relying on to be so tough? That's right She was a mistress to someone else. how The Qin family can't satisfy you. Now I have climbed up to Mr. Chen Residence Who gave you the courage? Slandering Miss Yunxi Miss Yunxi is my savior Slandering Miss Yunxi It's slandering me Remember this for me Later, this mother and daughter No entry to our mall in addition Damaged items must be compensated 10 times Zhao Shufen The accounts are settled one by one What do you think your chances are? There are some things I don't say or do. But you keep testing my patience In this case I won't be soft on you. mom Mom, what's wrong with you? Don't scare me, mom. I'm going to take you to the hospital. Miss Yun Please give us the money you owe us. Lose and leave Why should I compensate you? I wasn't the only one who ruined the clothes. Thinking of you always taking care of our store We don't want to make things too ugly. But if you have this attitude I can only call Mr. Yun in person. The lawyer's letter will also be sent at that time. Boss You see, I did pretty well today. The place where I had surgery last time Already recovered Do you want to see the recovery effect? Not interested Go away Okay Then I'll go away Xiaoxi Tomorrow noon Let's have a meal together Cloud star How long are you going to use me? Um go out Why should I go out? Husband enters wife's room Isn't it a matter of course? And logically speaking We should sleep together. I'll say it again go out Why are you angry? Who messed with my wife? My husband will help you deal with him. What can I say to you? Even if someone makes me angry What does it have to do with you? Now immediately Leave my room And you said you weren't angry You're obviously angry. how Your husband has spent less time with you these past two days. So I'm not happy. you alright Look at me I know You don't want me to die So don't talk harshly to me. I said Stay away from me Otherwise I will send you to hell. Be smart Don't mess with me It was you who provoked me first, okay? If you hadn't saved me I'm in hell now. So you saved my life. You have to be responsible for me Yunxi I will protect you as my life I won't let you suffer any injustice So your heart Learn to accept me first Okay? I don't care whether you like it or not I will make the whole world my enemy for you I've identified you This life is you No matter who It's impossible Take you away from me What about me I want to be a permanent resident in your heart Neuropathy Don't worry, let me try it first. Xixi I heard you saved Mr. Chen from Baiyi. Do you know such a big boss? Why didn't you say so earlier? Ask him out Our products You can enter Baiyi Shopping Mall Then I should say no. you Yunxi Normally, you don't respect me at all. That's fine. I don't argue with you. But your dad It's also for the company's business. This company But your mother founded it. Now the company is in crisis. You don't help Are you worthy of your mother? You still dare to mention my mother? I came here today with one word What did you get from my mother? I will make you pay back the money with interest besides Since you sent me to the country I don't have a father anymore. So don't use your father's identity to pressure me You, the chairman of Yun Group, Sitting for a while Just because you are a little girl dream Do you really think this company belongs to you? Just take it A wild girl from the countryside How dare you make such a big statement? Then you see if I can take it away Don't think my mother's death Only you know Things you have done I will make you regret it. Mr. Yun and Mrs. Yun Unknown Are you interested in cooperation? Hehe In a few days Our home We are going to hold a birthday party for Ah Ju. By then I want to hire a professional stylist Dress you up nicely Dress you up beautifully I want the whole world to know You two are a perfect match. grandfather Wife What do you talk about with my wife? Wife Aju dad Aju Weekend birthday party How are you preparing? Don't worry, Dad. My son's birthday party I will definitely do it well. Um Don't blame me for being cruel Who told you to take away the original Everything that belongs to me Ling Er Please help me get the gift box from the studio Bring it to me tomorrow My husband's birthday I have to give a gift. no problem That's right Sister Xi Yun Group's affairs When will you start? After the birthday What's up Wife, where are you? I miss you roll Wife Don't treat people like this. People will be sad Where are you? I'll go find you, okay? I've prepared a surprise for you. Qin Qiongju Don't make me kill you. You want to try How can I find you? Honey Are you sure you want to come in person? Send me the address I went there by myself I have something else to do I'm leaving first good I go I really can't tell You actually talk like this I really love your wife now. Curious The joy of having a wife Of course you won't understand Listen to what you're saying. I'm getting more and more curious. Who is your wife? I can actually fascinate you like this You're not that kind of person. A man easily tempted by beauty Tan Juening Shut up cock You really have changed Wo Hao Dai Bang Ni Pian Liao Qin Rong Zheng San Nian You are now killing me for a woman Tell the truth Are you really in love with her? My wife Of course I like it Just feed me dog food every day Go to the restroom Beauty Where are you going in such a hurry? Let's have a meal together roll Wife I made it for you Not bad What's wrong with you Why don't you treat him? If I say This is what I did Should Don't you deserve it? Don't treat him nice Xixi I know You are still defensive and hostile to me. But it doesn't matter I will wait for you Wait for you to slowly put me in your heart I am Qin Qiuju. I won't make promises easily But once I promised It's a lifetime so Don't think about running away I will always wait for you I will always be there Your past I didn't have a chance to participate But the future I must be there Xixi Remember what I just told you My husband hopes Whatever you want to do next I'm always the first Know May I tonight We all need to be vigilant Miss Yu said As long as we cooperate well Tonight I can make the little bitch Drive out of Qin's family See her when How can you still be so proud? We must not leave any room for that little bitch. If that little bitch comes to take revenge on us We didn't even have a chance to fight back. Give her some room When she loses the support of the Qin family I want her to give up her shares Spit it out for me Sister Meng sister in law tonight I will make one for you myself. The most beautiful shape Who is this person? Sister Meng actually came out in person Big stars in the entertainment industry Sister Meng may not come in person This lady is very young. Can actually make Sister Meng move It's really amazing But relying on the Qin family It's the treatment you get. So what? you Little Dream Don't let this person into the store anymore. Ugly yes You all heard it Heard you Yunxi Are you trying to embarrass me on purpose? Yunyou If you don't want to be embarrassed I advise you to shut up. Get her out Take the clothes off this ugly woman Wear on her waste What are you going to do? stop Don't move This is what I bought Be careful, I will sue you for molestation I offended my sister-in-law I don't do your business. I advise you to be more interesting. otherwise It will be uglier Yunyou You haven't learned yet. Wait for me tonight Okay, okay, let's go. tonight What Something happened dad Ayi hasn't arrived yet He is the protagonist tonight Not necessarily You don't know your limits. Grandpa Qin Uncle Qin I am Yunyou She is Xi's sister. dad or You go back and rest first Ayi is back I'll send someone to inform you Uncle Qin Some things I didn't want to say it. But I can't hide my feelings What's the matter? Uncle Qin is like this. actually I shouldn't call you uncle. I shouldn't call you uncle. In fact, I am Xiaoyou It's been so long since that happened. Why mention it? Lest you Your sister is at Qin's house. Embarrassment Mommy She treated you like that. You're still hiding it for her. Speak your mind actually I should have been your daughter-in-law. My sister I heard that I'm going to marry into the Qin family She's desperate Not marrying me Why wait till now? It was my sister who deceived Grandpa Qin explain We forced her to marry us. I am also forced to do so Yeah This is the substitute bride. Qin Qiuju's Wife She's so pretty. elder sister Don't be angry I'm doing this for your own good. If this gets exposed That would be embarrassing. Good for me You hit me again You stole my marriage. You still hit me OK So many people are watching Yunxi You are not right After the banquet Give us the Qin family an explanation Yo While her husband is away So you start bullying people, right? Where did this wild girl come from? Visitors Drag her out of here. You dare to touch my people? presumptuous You are openly going against me. Yunxi Don't think that Aju pampers you. You can be lawless. Stop talking nonsense Come on up Yunxi You don't take me seriously how You didn't know until today you Yunxi How do you talk? He's your dad. Then how can you teach me? Zheng Look at him Yunxi Don't think you married into the Qin family You are the Qin family. You deceived us This is a fact After the truth was revealed You spoke ill of me Now I'll ask you to divorce immediately. After the truth was revealed You spoke ill of me Now I'll ask you to divorce immediately. Hurrah Then you call Aju over. You can't call me, right? Don't think I don't know What did you do to Ayi? What nonsense are you talking about? Isn't Aju with you? Okay, Xixi. Stop it. What's your business? How to speak? I am your aunt Aunt The aunt who climbed onto my dad's bed? You are slandering people Get out of here now You are not yet qualified Tell me to leave Mr. Qin Don't think some things are well hidden. No one knows If I were you I won't show off here. You fart You fart Did I fart? You should know better than me. You hurt Aju's mother. besides The matter of giving Ah Ju drugs You said that if these things were exposed Are you ruined? I am a petty person who holds grudges. If someone makes me unhappy Someone might be guilty. Mr. Qin Do you want to try it? Yunxi Yunxi How do you talk to Mr. Qin? Ouch Where is Mr. Qin? Unknown I thought Mr. Qin was your father Such a dog licker Who bullied my wife? What's going on? How can he still come? Wife Are you okay? Don't worry Leave the rest to me Bullied you I won't let any of them go. dad You see me coming Are you disappointed? How could this happen? dad Where are you going? dad Where are you going? Xixi You see, you usually act like a spoiled brat. That's all. Today is such an important occasion You like this Let others think Our Yun family has no tutors Do you know what this occasion is? Unknown I thought you were going to let your daughter Being my husband's mistress? Such a mistress I don't want any. Who said I want to be a mistress? Do you dare to say no? you Just now you were Where is Mr. Qin's daughter-in-law? What are you going to do? waiter Go get me two more bottles of wine. Enough Go get it Need not Today is your birthday husband This is the gift I prepared for you. Happy birthday My wife gave it to me Whatever it is, I'll like it Qin Shao This is me Birthday gifts specially selected for you There was some misunderstanding Don't mind Yes, Mr. Qin We are all one family Why bother with such a small matter? Hurt feelings? This is Xiaoyou A gift specially made for you You will definitely like it Yes, yes. now that My brother-in-law likes the gift from my sister so much Why don't we open it and take a look? My wife gave it to me Why should I open it for you to see? Qin Shao After all, we are relatives. There's no need to be so harsh. Or is it a gift from Yun Xi? It's not even on the stage If she wants to see it, let her see it. but I have a condition Do you dare to bet with me? What are you afraid of? Then we'll gamble. Whose gift is more valuable? Can Whoever loses will bark like a dog good Open your presents This is the only jade pendant in the world. Works by the famous designer Lan Still a pinnacle 6 years ago, the price was over 1 billion Unexpectedly Today I am lucky enough to See this jade pendant This is impossible She is a little girl How can there be such an expensive gift? impossible This can't be true It's terrible to be uneducated What do you think of Lan's works? Can anyone imitate it? Don't gamble if you can't afford to lose Do you think everyone present is blind? It should be true. Besides Lan's works cannot be imitated by ordinary people That's good. This face slap is loud enough Wait till she learns to bark like a dog Get started What to start Is what you say true really true? Fake So how do you want to prove it? now that Everyone says This is Lan's capstone work. Then let's ask the experts to check it out. Hurrah Then please Enter have no idea Am I qualified enough? Oh my god It's Mr. Qiu Authoritative experts in the field of treasure appraisal Autumn Sensei Autumn Sensei Autumn Sensei I heard that you are a master in the field of treasure appraisal. Could you please Look at this thing What are you doing? Something my wife gave me Just one look is enough. Let Mr. Qiu identify it. If this jade pendant is real Then let Yunyou and Zhao Shufen Kneel down and crawl out Learning to bark like a dog Good stuff The surface material All polished with diamond drills Every layer and every line All are carefully crafted Can't be fake 6 years ago At the auction house in Country M After a mysterious person took away Never appeared again today I actually got a glimpse of his true appearance It's simply a work of God. Thank you, wife. The gift you gave me I really like it Just as you like Wow So envious I also want to talk about this kind of sweet love I believe in love again I also want to fall in love You lose Start your show. Yunxi We are a family after all. Tonight Your sister's words are a bit harsh But that's her personality. You hate me I understand But what did Xiaoyou do wrong? Yes, yes, Xixi You are my sister Don't be too picky. Have you ever considered me as a family member? If this jade pendant today is fake Will you let me go? If you don't leave here today Climb out Then I'll let you go out lying down Yunxi Your sister was just playing a joke on you Are you so serious? As for Ling Er Teach them to do things Teach them to do things good Don't mess around. Don't mess around. My sister said As long as you fulfill your bet You can be free from guilt. OK Yunxi Things have come to this point Almost there Don't look at the monk's face Look at Buddhism Proteomic How long are you going to let her mess around? My wife No matter what you say or do I support both Even if something happens, I, Qin Qiu Can afford it how Let me do it myself? Everything started because of me Let go of my mom Yo You are really a fighter among green tea You asked for this. If it weren't for you Who will be implicated Forget it, Xiaoyou Don't tell them. We are willing to accept the loss Isn't it just learning to bark like a dog? Wang Wang Wang mom Mother Qin Shao Give what your wife gave you Let me see it again. No Lan Designer My favorite designer Please be kind Rebellious Girl Stop here. You guys are the ones who messed with me from the beginning to the end You are wrong Bu Gai Gen Qin Rong Zheng Gou Jie The day you've been waiting for Been waiting for a long time? Since you married into the Qin family I'm thinking about how to take revenge on us. Yeah yes So you're ready I will give you everything you have now Get them all back This is you and your biological father. Attitude of speaking ah You can have today You have to thank me I thank you all you If your mother knew you became like this That would make me so angry that I would die. Don't mention her to me. You don't deserve it It doesn't matter whether you admit it or not I am the one who gave you life This fact It will never change Father Are you worthy too? Have you ever cared about my life or death over these years? If it wasn't for me marrying in his place Do you remember that you have a daughter like me? Aren't you living well? Too People like you have no heart. Wait I will make you lose everything Rebellious Girl A rebellious girl That's not right. How long has it been since it started? How come it's over so soon? Miss Who? Can you look at it while walking? Click Miss Miss Are you okay? Should I take you to the hospital? I'm fine No need to go to the hospital But next time you walk Can you watch it a little? Not who They are all as talkative as me. I'm in a hurry This is my business card You can contact me anytime if you have anything What are you doing? Sister Xi Is everything settled? Yunxi Brother-in-law I asked him to take you back. Juen Lemon Send my wife's sister home When is my sister going to come home? Sister Xi, I'm leaving first. The young lady is planning to take back the Yun family. And the identity behind her More mysterious than we thought very good This is the only way to match me That's right You continue to check Everything about her I want everyone to know That Qin Rong Zheng Na Bian Zen Yao Chu Li Since he chose to attack me Then let's not be polite. But Master Do you want me to see a doctor first? After all, you are hurt Need not My injury Only my wife can cure it I'm done with the call. I'm tired after a day. Let's go back and rest What's wrong So unhappy I'm not unhappy Wife What's up? You have to tell me Let me go You were in the banquet hall. Isn't that amazing? how What do you want me to do? I want you to kiss me All right But no matter what you do I won't interfere with you. You just need to remember I've always stood by you Qin Qiongju How much do you know about me? I am learning But It doesn't matter Important You are my woman Next Steps I want to deal with the Yun family I can help you You have to remember You are my woman I am your husband What's up? We should carry it together I can give you a sense of security Okay? What happened last night I know everything You've been wronged grandfather Don't you blame me? I ruined Ayi's birthday party And it brought shame to your Qin family. These are the little things Last night They really went too far. You have been wronged In the beginning I really want Ayi to wake up Let you marry me for good fortune Because I'm too selfish Don't worry Who dares to bully you from now on? Grandpa will decide for you Yunxi's people are outside Acquisition of scattered shares of Yun Family Go help her yes Sister Xi This is what I collected All of Yun's scattered shares Total 15% Earthquake Is the supplier issue still not resolved? How to solve it Insufficient funds Recently, many people Selling shares at a low price If this continues Yun's game is over. Shufen or How about we sell Yun's? The company has too many problems I can't hold on any longer. At least now I can sell it and still have money. Otherwise, by then Nothing left No, Star Trek We worked so hard at the beginning Only then did he take down Yun's How could I let go so easily? What is the company like now? You don't know If this continues We really have nothing left. But You're half a lifetime's blood It's all on this. We'll think of a way. In conclusion We can't hand over the Yun family to a bitch. I see Maybe it's her Who is causing trouble in the middle? This rebellious woman you're right There's no way she'll succeed. Yunxi There is a problem with Yun Group You are a shareholder You should work with everyone to find a solution Solve the problem You return Yun to me. perhaps I will consider letting you stay in the company Or leave gracefully If you still insist At your own risk Hooked? Boss It's just as you thought. Yun Zhenxing sold Zhao Shufen and Yunyou each hold 5% of the shares If he knows how to run a business Yun Shi wouldn't be unable to get up. alright The fish is hooked Prepare to close the Internet cafe Good show It's coming soon What's wrong with you? You sell my and Xiaoyou's shares Don't tell us a word I gave you the shares. I want to sell. If you are reluctant Can you inject some capital into the company? So many years You only know how to spend money Have you ever spent a penny on the company? Where do I have money? Last time you said the company had an emergency Asked for 5 million I rarely go to the beauty salon now. Okay, okay. Stop talking Go do your thing. I'm annoyed when I see you Hello, Lawyer Chen I want to ask When will this new shareholder arrive? How long shall we wait? This is the first time I'm late for a meeting. He simply doesn't take us seriously. that is Too presumptuous What are we waiting for? Just hold a meeting and vote Yun is right. Too arrogant. There are so many of us Wait for her Everyone Quiet down or I suggest What do you suggest What are you doing go out We are in a meeting now If you have anything to say, we'll talk after the meeting. I'm the one you're waiting for. Don't you know clearly? Don't you want to give up your seat? Yunxi How dare you plot against me? Don't forget I'm your father. When did you ever treat me as your daughter? You only have 30% of the shares. Not a major shareholder. I want to take back Yun's You are dreaming Take a good look Who is the largest shareholder of Yunshi? How do you There will be so many shares This world is the law of the jungle Cloud star Do you really think you can be in this position? Sit for a lifetime? How did you cheat my mom out of her shares? I believe you haven't forgotten Yunxi What nonsense are you talking about? Your mother gave me the shares. You think I have no evidence? If I had evidence Cloud star Your life There will be no more day to come out Enough, Xixi He's your dad. You do this Isn't this just a joke to everyone? We are all family How could your father not love you? otherwise Not after you get married. I'll give you 30% of the shares. Did he really give it to me? you Don't spit blood. I don't know what you're talking about I know I sent you to the countryside. You hate us But What does this have to do with your dad? You want to hate Just hate me evidence What I have here is star I really can't wait As long as my sister is still here I can't justify it. With you Oh, it's almost there. Her current illness It's not easy After a while Wait till she dies The company belongs to me. We can Can you rest easy? Very good Oh, you damn ghost Don't mess with people here. Rebellious Girl Rebellious girl Didn't you say no one knew? Now what is this Yunxi You are so vicious. Compared with you Still a long way off I want my sister to die so badly. You stole the company's funds. It should be at least 500 million. Don't think that what you did No one knows The evidence Is that enough for you to admit your mistake? impossible You are setting me up. I see you don't know anything at all Where is my fault? Didn't anyone teach you? Be honest Are you brave enough to admit your mistakes? Since you dare not admit it Then let's verify it. You said you didn't steal the company's money. Then use your ID card. Let's verify this card. Telephone In front of all of us If this account Prove it's yours you Get out of Yun's family immediately With your damn daughter Get out of Yun's house Quick Hit right No wonder I recently discovered The company has so many bad debts Call now Otherwise we'll call the police. Hello We are Swiss Bank How can I help you? What do you want? No matter how much you hate me I am also your father's legal wife now I am your mother Didn't you say I couldn't produce evidence? I have the evidence now. how You're angry. My mom is your sister. She's your sister. From today I Yunxi Will become the new director of Yun Group Will lead Yun Group Reaching a new peak A welcome gift for everyone HT Group Will become our partner Hope we Happy cooperation Definitely happy What HT is Qin Qiong OMG HT is a large international company Ranked among the top 500 in the world I didn't expect the boss behind the scenes It turned out to be Qin Ruanju Now we send Yunxi Mr. Yun Our Yun Group I'll depend on you from now on. Let's follow Yun Zong Have meat to eat You and your mother really look alike. Our Yun Your mother, so to speak. Made by hand But after she left Yun's has been going downhill Don't worry I will definitely not let you down well Mr. Qin Looking forward to our future cooperation Yunxi What are you doing? Yunxi You're mother is ill Why did you throw my clothes? Throw my bag Are you crazy? Do I look crazy to you? Now that I'm back at the Yun family Everything here is mine. Yunxi Don't go too far. What are you still standing there for? Look, she treated us two How angry are you? Okay, okay, Yunxi What are you doing back here? Your goal has been achieved We are all family Why do you have to make it so embarrassing? Family You don't deserve it I came here today just to Notify you Start Today This is my Yunxi Visitors Drag them out you Rebellious Girl Rebellious girl Don't make it difficult for us What do you think you are? You dare to stop me? Don't think you have Qin Qiong's support It's amazing Bastard But it's my dad A dog under my control Miss Yun is so impressive Dare to come to my company Putting hands on my people You bitch You dare to hit me I'll hit you. Do we have to pick a date? How can you be like this? No conscience You sent your dad to the hospital. Did you know Doctors say Dad almost died Isn't he still alive? Why are you here to show off your presence? Or do you think I took everything from you You want to take it back The company originally belonged to my father. his He also deserves Why doesn't he deserve it? Did You Know How much effort did Dad put into Yun's? Why do you come back? Just for us I just think you're not qualified. Enjoy the kingdom my mother conquered Yunyou Don't take yourself too seriously. If Yun wasn't my mother's hard work I don't even bother to care about you Now the Yun family is in such a serious deficit If I hadn't taken over The Yun family couldn't last more than a month. Talk about You don't rely on men. No more Qin family What qualifications do you have to stand here? My wife is not eligible. So what are your qualifications? How come you are here? I'll pick you up Don't let this kind of person go next time. Entering the Yun Family's Gate What right do you have to do this? The company belongs to my father Not yours And dad isn't dead. Even if I die Yun can only leave it to me. Are you really stupid or ignorant? Yun Zhenxing's current shares Not even 1/10 of what I have Leave it to you I'm afraid you haven't woken up yet. Throw her out You only have eyes for this bitch Yes or no I'm gonna fire you all. This work is good High-end It is indeed quite popular now. But the work is useless. Our Yun family's current reputation Not as good as before Launch this new work Not necessarily popular yes Yun's jewelry Too much loss I think Or use our conservative design style otherwise Once promoted The result is hard to predict Everyone If I say My first love is the reclusive Meilinka Designed by myself What Mr. Yun Are you kidding us? Meilinka has been in seclusion for a long time. There haven't been any new products for a long time. How could she give us this design? Do you think I'm lying to you? Instead of doubting me Better believe me After all, I came to Yunshi It's to save you. hateful This was all your daughter's idea. The current shareholders of the company Everyone listens to her You want to take back Yun's impossible You Just stay here Pity me I've done so much for you What I got First Love pre-sale conference is in progress Next we will interview two ladies Who is this person? Sister Meng actually came out in person Right, right, right I didn't expect Yun's products It can be done so beautifully This time, Yun It really gave us a lot of confidence. Boss Our orders have exploded. Yun's stock also rose sharply Looking at the rising data The shareholders are so happy. Speak Found some things explain We have always believed The man who is Yu Mengru's younger brother It's Mr. Qin The illegitimate child with Yu Mengru Yuan Lai Qin Rong Zheng Yao Hai Wo Do you want to give his illegitimate son a position? Ajay Since he is committing suicide Then we'll give him a ride. good In addition, we found After the young lady was sent back to the countryside An old man who lives next door It turned out to be the famous doctor Mr. Eighteen The young lady learned medical skills from him. so The young lady is not Yun Shijiu's direct disciple Rather Yun Shijiu is the young lady What Do you miss me? Do you miss me? Ask you Do you miss me? That's right we Do you want to go out and play tomorrow? Where to go You don't have to worry about it. I'll arrange it. We've been together for so long Haven't played together yet Sister Xi How to get there Someone disturbed me and my wife. This is not Is Yun Xiyun the boss? how Know that I'm an internet celebrity Come over here and take advantage of my light Ever since this Yunyou After you kicked me out of the company last time I started my own business. What about the Ouyang family? What kind of internet celebrity did you become? unlucky Let's go Take my light Just want to go Don't you know We're filming here. Rented a venue Are you here to take advantage of my popularity? This is a resort Our rental is limited So I only rented this one. Others It doesn't necessarily depend on us. The purpose is so obvious. Why don't you drive them away? Ouyang Lu will be here soon See how long she can hold on. This is the one who is engaged to that young master Qin. Ouyang Lu Isn't it her? Ouyang Lu is beautiful Good family background Still strong If it weren't for Qin Shao being ill Ouyang Lu has already become Mrs. Qin How can it be her turn? Whose turn is it? It's not your turn either. how Ever since I was kicked out of the house by Sister Xi last time Start being something A small internet celebrity who is not popular anymore Get her out of here right away. you Dare to push me Can you push me whenever you want? I don't know whose power he is relying on. Yo I thought who this was This is not famous Madam Qin? What happened? how Is this resort yours? Don't let anyone come. elder sister What are you doing? Putting hands on my people If my people offend you Can't I apologize to you? I don't accept your apology. As a public figure I am also for my personal safety Think about it No matter what you do You can't hit people either. I've hit you more than once or twice. how Now I have an opinion You bitch What are you doing Do you know that if you hit someone in public I can tell you Sue me She is Ouyang Lu Just you You just hit someone. I've photographed them all. Organize the evidence Already called the police I am Miss Yun's Attorney The follow-up to this incident I will follow up throughout the process Manager Li That's him Beating someone at a resort You are not welcome here. Please leave the villa immediately Are you qualified to kick me out? Brother-in-law You are finally here Someone is chasing Sister Xi away? Who is so bold? Some people Thick skinned enough She won't leave even if you chase her away But it's okay Let's check the injury. Just sue her for intentional injury OK It just so happens that I have time. Play with you Wife They bullied you, didn't they? You actually called her your wife? How can you She doesn't call me wife. Do you call me wife? Here Who doesn't know that I am his wife? Qin Qiongyi Do you love this woman so much? She is my wife Of course I love her. Any more Only my wife can call me by my name Please don't call me anymore. No matter what my wife did I have your back. Have you forgotten how much we loved each other? Love Love to the point that you and Yu Mengru are in cahoots Go to my company Dao Qu Ji Mi Gei Qin Rong Zheng Shi Ma Don't think you No one knows what I did No treatment Because I want you to live a few more days. But this matter make life difficult for Ms. Ouyang Now we have mastered You buy the witness Evidence of perjury and illegally inducing public opinion Obstruction of justice Please come with us Ms. Yunyou We have a case with you Live streaming selling of counterfeit products Take a trip with us HD It is truly a global The strongest entertainment company Cruel enough Fast enough That wife is here Praise me That wife is here Praise me OK I won't disturb your date. I will meet you when you are dating. Try to disappear, ok? What about next? Stay away from my wife. You're a lover. Go follow your Tan Juening Brother-in-law Me and Tan Juening It doesn't matter half a dime. Because it doesn't matter He can also be related Do you understand? I think Tan Juening is a pretty good person He's not my cup of tea I don't like tea either. With your figure Flat like an airport Who likes you? Sister, even if it's an airport She's the woman you can't have. Tired? Take a break Where is Ling'er? She She ran out to play with Tan Juening I just saw They hugged each other. What so fast? If Ling'er was with him I will definitely not be treated unfairly You still have the mood to worry about other people's affairs How come it's someone else? Ling'er at least calls me brother-in-law. Of course not an outsider. I don't believe Tan Juening But I believe you It's fine if you say so That's right That being the case Let's play our Give people some space How about letting people have a good relationship? Are you telling the truth? Do you think I'll take this? Are you kidding? If she is really Melinka Then our Qin Group will In the jewelry How can I raise my head? The company's jewelry products There is no market There's no way this thing could be wrong I saw the manuscript myself You look for opportunities Sound her out good How does Miss Yu have time? Buy me coffee You have been married into the Qin family for so long. I didn't formally invite you to dinner. Not as good as Let's have dinner together tonight I booked a hotel If you just want to treat me to a meal No need I want to go home and eat with my husband Wait a moment I'm here today I do have something to tell you. Hehe I heard that your Yunshi has launched a new product called First Love Designed by Melinka Is it true? Qin's Jewelry's performance has declined recently so I want you to recommend me We also want Meilinka designs a piece of jewelry I don't know her You don't know You don't know How come there is a design by Meilinka? If it's really inconvenient You can tell me her address. I'll go find it myself If you look for me Just for this matter I don't know I have something else to do Gone first Stop for me Don't you care about the Qin family's life or death? Stop making trouble Aren't you going to work today? I go to work every day I want to find a chance to spend time with my wife. Besides Comparing work to wife My wife is definitely first. Stop making trouble Oops, Mr. Yun Always with Yun Good cooperation with suppliers Suddenly we need the materials Temporary shortage No way to supply normally Have you found a new supplier? Still looking but This time It seems that someone deliberately We are against Yun There are suppliers in the morning Accidentally revealed the shortage of materials Someone secretly made a move Purpose To deal with Yun Find a new supplier first I'll handle the rest The person behind this may be Yu Mengru What does she want to do? I'll handle it She is no match for me. You have been in the company recently I also encountered many difficult things. Qin Rong Zheng Zai Gong Si It will definitely trip you up. This little thing Of course I can handle your husband. but My wife is so awesome Who can defeat you? But if someone dares to touch you A penny worth a penny I let her trade her life Yu Mengru This time I was completely embarrassed. She definitely won't let it go so easily. I will definitely find a chance to take revenge Remember Even if the sky falls I'll support you It's time to give Yu Mengru A little color Make it beautiful yes I'll issue a ban immediately. Want to use me as a stepping stone Let you that The useless illegitimate child is in power, right? Then I'll see if you can handle it. From today All your notifications have stopped. Go home for a while Let's talk about it after the storm has passed. Yo Isn't this Sister Mengru? How come it was blocked so quickly? You care Bitch Yunxi It must be you I won't let you go Let Yunxi get out of here Sorry to meet our president. Please make an appointment in advance A big shelf President The position he took from his father Sitting I'm not afraid of hurting my waist. Miss Yu, please don't worry about this. How is our president? They all sit firmly A little assistant How dare you talk to me like this? I'm hers In the company we only talk about business If it's a family affair Please go home and communicate directly with the president Excuse me I want to work Please leave Who do you think you are? Dare to drive me away Don't think here It's a place where you can let loose Bitch Can you tell me too? I don't care how much I weigh. You dare to hit me? Ms. Yu, what are you doing? You dare to touch my people? Miss Yu may have forgotten Yesterday's lesson? Come here now to show your presence She's just your dog. What can't I hit? If you hit someone, you should consider who they are. very good You succeeded in getting me Stop pretending here. I said How could you be so fearless yesterday? It turned out that reinforcements were called in. Don't be too self-righteous. No wonder you've been here for so many years Haven't entered the Qin family yet With your IQ It will be hard to straighten it out in another 10 years. so And you Call me aunt Maybe I can give you a tip. I'm not Are you worthy? I advise you to apologize to me. otherwise You will regret it I heard There's a problem with your supply chain. Miss Yu really has a solution Whose bed did you climb into this time? Yunxi What are you crazy about? My Chair You don't deserve to sit I've already given you a chance. But you don't deserve it Throw her out Whoever lets such a dog in next time Just pick up your bag and leave you Yunxi, I won't let you go. Yunxi Sister Xi Please sign this document Preheat first Get the message out Yunshi Group next quarter Will launch the Love Series Jewelry Will cooperate with famous jade carving master Yun Yi Wow really This series It will definitely be more sensational than first love Sister Xi, look Our Yun family is on the hot search again Wow, is this the Yun Yi I know? Is he going to leave? This Yun Group is too powerful! There is first love and deep affection This is too good. Is this Yun's director so powerful now? Can we invite such an awesome person? According to this data Affectionate launch It will definitely make our Yun family Take it to the next level That's right How's the situation on Yunzhenxing? The garbage in those companies Is everything cleaned up? Sister Xi, don't worry. I've dealt with all this. very good Don't spend too much time on it On top of the Yun family's garbage Yo What a big brand! See you now You need to make an appointment? It seems Is this security guard a vegetarian? This will let you in. I have to change again. Do you think he can stop me? I'm here today I have something important to tell you. Aren't you looking for a spokesperson? I can represent you for free condition You met Melinka for me. Why do you think I will agree to you? Just relying on my connections And my current popularity Lots of people outside I can't invite you even if I want to. What else are you picky about? A lot of people invite you Your current popularity It should be not as good as before. Your company's project Probably gave it to someone else. Don't think Qin Qiong is backing you up behind the scenes He is a man who has been sleeping for several years What abilities can I advise you Better to face reality You can't say bad things about my husband. You are a mistress. You dare to jump in front of me Have you forgotten your identity? Want to be Yun's spokesperson You don't deserve it I want to see Meilinka so much Why don't you ask your lover to help you find it? What do you mean now? Are you trying to offend me completely? Do you think I dare not offend you? Or you take yourself too seriously. I tell you My People Even if he is no longer It's not your turn to say anything. It's impossible to see Meilinka Want to be our Yun's spokesperson You're not worthy Don't be ignorant Do you think Yun's business is improving now? Is that remarkable? That's right Yun's current performance I brought it out. I dare to say this It proves that I have this ability. Now? Let's settle the score between us In this world No one can say anything bad about my husband yet Just based on this I can get you out of here Climb out And I will never get a job again. Stop threatening me here. How much patience do you have? Isn't it because of Qin Qiuju? You think I'm really afraid of you I will let you know What is fear? Call the security guard up What do you want to do? how Now I know I'm scared What am I afraid of? I'm afraid you'll eat me. I can't eat you. I'm afraid of nausea What did I say last time Don't let this woman Another step into the Yun family Even the dog can watch Can't keep an eye on a woman? Who do you call a dog? Take her out you You guys let me go Let me go release Release me Yunxi I won't let you go You bitch I will definitely get everything I have. You wait for me Latest News Yu Mengru's mistress Killed the original wife His 18-year-old illegitimate son was exposed After a while, the limelight will pass. No, it's okay. Who can still remember this? Besides Now there is a lot of entertainment news Why do you have to keep harping on my affairs? Don't you understand yet? You don't know who you have offended. This matter is obviously directed at you And last time People didn't kill you. You should be grateful. You are good Now I'm directly offending people. Current affairs There's nothing I can do. The company also decided to put you on ice Don't call me anymore. no Hello Zheng Zheng Shi Yao Zheng Are you still willing to call me? What a mess you made for me. Don't you have a brain? You immediately put the things on the Internet Please handle it for me I don't want to be at this time Cause any trouble I didn't expect it either She has such great ability I just I want her to recommend Meilinka. Zheng I'm really at a dead end now. You must help me How can I care about you? I can't even protect myself, okay? That what? Who did you just call? Yunxi Didn't you tell me before? Do you suspect she is Melinka? So I went to find her She also said wildly Not afraid of you at all You haven't slept yet. Waiting for you Are you busy these two days? You come back very late. No matter how busy I am As long as I go home I can see you I'll be revived immediately. That's right Did you do what happened to Yu Mengru? Um I let her go last time. She still comes to harass me without knowing whether to live or die good Let's ignore her. Oh, my wife. I'm asking you Should I call you Yun Nineteen? Melinka is better still You got it Um My grandpa It's a great thing. Found one for me Wife in a vest I really like it That's right we I haven't had a proper wedding yet. Wait until the work at hand is finished Let's make another one. alright Too tired Rest first I'm going to take a shower Qin Qiongju Telephone You come to pick up Hello Hello, is this Madam? Please inform the master My father's heart disease Relapse What's going on? Jin Tian Zheng Da Shao Gen Yu Xiao Jie Hui Lao Zhai You have to force the old man The shares in hand Transfer to him The master was furious Gen Zheng Shao Ye Chao Liao Qi Lai After that I see Wife Qin Ruanyi's grandfather had a heart attack Rescue in hospital Let's go there quickly Walk The patient is in danger of surgery now. You need to sign a consent form for surgery What does it mean? The patient had previously undergone heart bypass surgery There are certain risks So you need to sign I won't sign The situation is so serious now What if I fall on the operating table? Who bears this responsibility? Unless Yun 19 comes I don't believe in others Since you refuse to sign I had to transfer the patient to the intensive care unit. Why are you looking at me like that? None of my business brute Even I dare to hit You are simply rebellious I hit you lightly If something happened to my grandpa today I can't forgive you You really think you did Those dirty things Don't I have evidence? Aju Go check on Grandpa first. Bitch I It seems that you are really not afraid of death You know who I hate the most? If the old man There are three long and two short I will definitely make you regret it you Yunxi It's not your turn to speak for the Qin family. Dare to hit my woman Do you know the hierarchy of seniority? What is she? Interfering in other people's marriages The third party takes the lead It's not even grass in my place. Qin Rong Zheng I think you are still a thief. Do you think you can force grandpa Is the Qin family yours? Aju I am your father Can you allow her Talk to me like this? I just saw that you disrespected her first I'll only say this once She Yunxi My wife You want to rebel? you Have you fulfilled your responsibilities as a father? People say that even a tiger won't eat its own cubs. Think about it yourself What these years have done to me you You deliberately married into our Qin family You want us to fight among ourselves? I didn't agree with you marrying Ah Sheng at the beginning. An uneducated woman like you You have to rely on Aju Protect you forever You see Ayi wake up now. Ruined your plan The cornered dog will jump over the wall. What Aju You let such a woman To humiliate me? I am your father All those years you were lying in bed I carefully found someone to take care of you I don't want you to thank me but You can't allow an outsider. Come attack me Do you dare to swear His illness has nothing to do with you. What do you mean I told you a long time ago Keep your tail hidden when doing things But you don't listen This makes me very unhappy. If this lady is unhappy You have to pay a price What do you want to do? You should know It's very difficult for you to do this. Aju Your father is doing this for your own good. No matter what Yun Xi shouldn't Talk to your dad like this Guai Bu De Qin Rong Zheng Zhao Ni Dang Qing Fu Not good looking The ability to pass the pot is first-class Since you said I am not a member of the Qin family Then let's make it clear Don't think you are Those hands and feet behind the scenes I have no idea To make trouble for Yun Did You Know I can put you in jail for life. Aju You listen to what she said. This uneducated woman You are not worthy of entering the Qin family. I don't want to say the same thing a second time Aju You really want this woman Did you completely break up with your father? Isn't that what you want? Kill me So the illegitimate child of the two of you You can inherit everything from the Qin family. Right Let's make a bet today. Within 5 minutes Qin Rong Zheng Shou Shang LJi Tuan De Gu Jie Start to fall you Qin Shaoqi's group is in turmoil Our previous plan Do you want to continue? Of course I continued Since it's my wife who wants to play Then let her have fun. All shares of L Group All short yes Mr. Qin Our company's stock price plummeted If it continues to fall The company is going bankrupt What Yunxi Who are you? How can you manipulate stock prices? Do you know how to do this? Playing with fire and getting burned If you ask me now I might consider letting you go. otherwise You will go bankrupt you It was originally your business I don't want to get involved But you two Self-righteous attitude Makes me very upset I do this Will you feel bad? Won't You are responsible for L Group I'm responsible for bottoming out Qin Rongzheng You didn't even spare your own son. Are you still human? Stop spitting blood on me. There is no evidence Stop talking nonsense here. I am his father How could I do this to my own son? It's you Arrived at our Qin family How much did you find for us? Now Are you trying to sow discord between us father and son again? You're covered in blood I still need to spray You caused Ah Ju's mother to jump off the building. Now I'm hurting Ah Ju again What's the difference between you and a beast? Qin Rongzheng You're now out of money All these years of hard work have gone to waste. Let you calculate you you levy What's wrong with you doctor Qin Rongzheng It is no longer suitable to be a director of Qin Corporation. or You take charge of the situation. The company It's grandpa's hard work. Bu Neng Rang Ta Hui Zai Qin Rong Zheng Shou Li I listen to you grandfather Just take a good rest Company affairs Leave it to me Now I declare All the shares under his name All transferred to Qin Rong Zheng De Ming Xia after All company affairs He is fully responsible No I don't agree The decision I made Don't you agree? Lawyer Song Sorry for bothering you Good old man The young lady is not well Mr. Qin went to the hospital to make trouble The old man couldn't bear it anymore and fainted again What Ling Er You ask Ouyang to bring the team here immediately The old man's health can't be delayed any longer. If you delay any further The surgery will become increasingly difficult How sure are you? Now only 40% But if Yun 19 If you come for surgery The success rate of the operation will reach 70% So You should contact Yun Shijiu as soon as possible. Unless he comes otherwise I don't agree to the surgery. But Qin alright So you are planning Refusing to perform surgery on grandpa The old man's physical condition Can't stand the toss In case of surgery failure You just accept Did Yun Shijiu perform the surgery himself? That's right I just have faith in him. tomorrow Yun Shijiu will be there in person Check up grandpa I fell asleep How did you fall asleep on the sofa? You know it's easy to catch a cold this way? You just came back Um There's a problem with the company Internal affairs It's more serious than I thought Very tricky That How can I help? fine This little thing I can handle it That You go to bed I'm going to take a shower I'm going to answer a call Sister Xi Ouyang seemed to have returned home yesterday He is at 11 o'clock I'll go to the hospital to see you. good Young Lady Not good Notice from the hospital The old man suddenly fell ill Already in the operating room What How long will it take you? About half an hour Okay, I'll wait for you in the hospital. Mr. Qin It's not that we don't do it for him. It's Yun 19 that hasn't been found yet. How do you do things? Until now, Yun 19 has not been found. If anything happens to my father Please close your hospital. Qin Rong Zheng Xian Sheng I heard your voice from far away Are you really anxious? I'm still worried about them operating on grandpa. What are you doing here? What's your business? When did I say I won't perform surgery on the old man. That's my dad lying there. His body can't stand the torture I'll find him someone capable. Doing surgery Let him suffer less What's wrong Don't worry Yun 19 will definitely Perform surgery on grandpa personally Who do you think you are? You can find it if you say so Go prepare The people from Cloud 19 will be here soon. Why are you still standing there? Go We are not eligible Perform surgery on him Who said no Isn't this the dean? Go in now Have someone prepare what is needed for surgery Now we are going to operate on the patient good Miss Yun You can go in and prepare first. I said Yun Shijiu will personally perform surgery on Grandpa How about it The slap in the face was fast enough. Account I'll calculate with you slowly Dean How can Yunxi enter the operating room? What does she know? If anything happens to my father Can you bear this responsibility? Mr. Qin, don't you know yet? Miss Yun is Yun Nineteen this time She personally operated on Mr. Qin The operation will be successful so Don't worry Wife how's it going Don't worry Grandpa is fine. The operation was successful Just take a good rest. Thanks for your hard work Let's go home Hehe Can you marry into our Qin family? It's A-Yu's blessing. I originally thought Aju can wake up Because of the joy Unexpectedly It's all your fault grandfather Your body is strong You should take a good rest during this time. It's the old man You are a bad parent. grandfather Some words Not suitable for me to say But I don't like to keep things to myself. I hope you won't be angry when I tell you Qin Rong Zheng Zhe Ci He really went too far. I have taught him a lesson grandfather During this period Just take care of yourself. Wo Yi Ding Hui Rang Qin Rong Zheng No place to stand 77 The funds you guaranteed cannot be loaned out Our company is in financial crisis Now I can't even pay my salary. Many employees They all went to the Labor Bureau to sue us. OK Give me an appointment Three days later Location: Yihezhai I'd like to see Who is so capable? Over and over again Attack me again and again Mr. Qin You are suspected of large-scale tax evasion Corruption and Bribery Illegal fundraising property Please follow us back to the investigation now We have evidence to prove you Suspected of attempted murder Please come back with us to assist in the investigation you Who Do you know who I am? I don't care who you are As long as the law is violated should be punished accordingly dad Isn't this what you asked for? What do you want to do? What do you think? Yunxi What you think is not the truth Everything I do All for the Qin family All for Aju so The father drugged his son My father took over my son's company Stop giving me a fake show. I plan for myself What's wrong You gave me a life. What else have you given me? To get the upper hand You can even kill your own son. Things without evidence Stop talking nonsense here. Do you think I don't have evidence? Will I stand here and testify against you? Bastard I think you are really No tears until the coffin Aren't you curious whether I have evidence? Then I'll prove it to you. But don't regret it Qin Rong Zheng Open your eyes and take a good look This is you before Records of banned drugs being purchased in batches You thought you destroyed these things. No one knows? The evidence you want Don't worry I will protect you from now on No one will bully you anymore. good Since my wife is protecting me? I'll just be your gigolo.