Transcriber: Theresa Ranft We know that the Earth is round. Everything we understand about this planet is grounded in the fundamental assumption But there was a time, when we knew that the Earth was flat. That's called a paradigm shift. Our basic assumptions because we had evidence showing Just like the shape of the Earth, there are assumptions about autism too. Most people understand autism They understand autism a disorder, even as a tragedy. In the medical paradigm, that there's a correct way that there's a right way for our brains and that any other way and needs to be treated and fixed. In 2011, when I was 25 years old, I was diagnosed with autism, and it wasn't a tragedy. It was the best thing Finding out that I'm autistic brought me My whole life, up to that point, My paradigm about myself shifted. I wasn't a failed neurotypical person. I was a perfectly good autistic person. After my diagnosis, I did what most of us would probably do, I went to Dr. Google, (Laughter) and I started researching autism. Eventually, I upgraded from Dr. Google. I did my Ph.D. in autism, became a doctor myself, and today, I'm proud to be one of a growing number working in autism research. But, in those early days, I wasn't running I was just trying And learn about myself, I did. I was bombarded with information. I was bombarded with information Autism causes deficits deficits in communication, restricted and repetitive behaviors, sensory processing deficits. For me, that information Finding out that I'm autistic had completely changed How could something be such a bad thing? So, I went back to Dr. Google, but this time I dug deeper. I started to find information about autism that was written, not by researchers but by actual autistic people. I discovered a thing called The neurodiversity paradigm is an alternative way It describes autism as a part in human neurological development. At its very simplest, Just like biodiversity helps to create a healthy and sustainable neurodiversity can help to create a healthy and sustainable According to the neurodiversity paradigm, there are no right or wrong brains. All forms of neurological development are equally valid and equally valuable. And regardless of what type all people are entitled to full and to be treated Now, that sounds a bit Treating people it just makes sense. You might be surprised, then, to learn that a pretty common way is ... &quot;I don't know, I mean, it's alright for you, but it doesn't apply to everybody. What about this person? They're really autistic. They're not just different; they're disabled.&quot; Well, maybe you can't tell but I'm disabled too. I'm not disabled by my autism, though; I'm disabled by my environment. This is another paradigm shift. The way that we're used is based on a model called The medical model assumes It places disability within me. For example, I really struggle They're loud, they're brightly lit, they're unpredictable, The medical model would say because there's a problem with the way because I'm autistic. But there's another way It's called the &quot;social model In the social model, disability happens when a person's environment doesn't cater In the social model, we don't refer to people Disability isn't something Instead, we use the word Disability is something I'm actively being &quot;dis-abled&quot; by the society around me. When I go to a shopping mall, I don't struggle because I struggle because the shopping mall is designed in a way If we started designing shopping malls predictable, and sparsely populated, well, I'd still be autistic, but I might not be disabled Almost everything we know about autism stems from research that's based and the medical paradigm. We spend hundreds of millions on autism research. And the vast majority of that research Recently, I conducted a study examining how autism research funding over the past 10 years. Here's what I found. More than 40% of funding trying to find out why and if there's a way to prevent it. Another 20% of funding went to research most of which are trying to find new ways to make autistic people Only 7% of funding went to research investigating services Why does this matter? Well, around 1 in 50 people are autistic. About 60% of autistic adults 87% of us have mental illness. Autistic people are nine times more likely to die by suicide. We have an average And we deserve better. In 2012, an autistic researcher proposed a new theory. He called it the &quot;double empathy problem.&quot; And what he suggested was this: maybe autistic people Maybe we just get along better Maybe autistic people socialize better and non-autistic people socialize better Maybe the difficulties and non-autistic people try to socialize aren't because the autistic person but because autistic are both bad at communicating Now, to the autistic community, this made perfect sense. But a lot of autism researchers I guess maybe they didn't like the idea that the whole history of autism research Luckily, in the last couple of years, a handful of autism researchers with the double empathy problem, and they've decided In one brand-new study from the University of Edinburgh, they did this using a task which, in Australia, we know of Chinese Whispers. Now, I'm sure you're all familiar with it. You whisper a piece of information and you try to keep it And if you've played, you know The first person will whisper &quot;Today I need to pay my rent But by the last person: &quot;Donald Trump is President, (Laughter) Well, in Edinburgh, they played that game The first group was all autistic people. The second group was all non-autistic, And the third group was a combination The researchers found that the all autistic were equally accurate but the combined autistic was significantly in their information sharing. That suggests that autistic communicate equally well. It's the mismatch between that causes the problems, exactly as the double empathy We need a paradigm shift in the way We need to recognize is not the best outcome We need services and supports that will help us to live long, while respecting our right And we need the kind of work that I do: research led by autistic people that answers the questions Because the Earth is not flat, and I am not a tragedy. Thank you. (Applause)