- I was challenged to create electricity to support this beast. It's Volkswagen's carbon than a Formula One electric infamous 12 and a half mile of a really high mountain in Colorado. (electric engine whining) And they gave me no they wanted it done. So I thought, how cool would of those science fair lemon batteries? And since I'm pretty isn't going to cut it. My plan is to build the world's largest lemon battery. And when it comes to no one is better at that William P. Osman. - Oh. - The first video I saw of yours was when you bio-hacked your dog. How did that work? - Not well. We tried to dangle a hot dog in front of a dog's face And then you can steer the hot dog to try to get the dog to change directions. And what he ended up doing was - So we've estimated this for us to build. And yet I've only allotted two minutes for this in the video. So you know what that means? - You plan on your videos working? - Montage! - We didn't want our battery set up to just be a mangled mess of wires so William had the brilliant idea to water jet out a bunch which we could then assemble into racks. We wired the first half of and that was in series with which were also all in parallel. And then at that point, all we had to do was impale some lemons. Speaking of which, in from my own backyard, I visited some local farms which means they couldn't because they were either over And when one finds oneself in turns out you can't not do this. What's my safe word? Yeah! - So here we have the and now is the moment much power this could But in order to understand the results let's first review how a in the first place. The trick is picking the into the lemon. In this case, zinc really and then copper really but they can't do that unless they're connected by And that's the lemon juice. Once that happens, an at the base and the And moving electrons is the It's sort of like how the water up high in the full cup naturally wants to flow to the empty cup, lower until you connect the two with the straw which allows the water to flow. So in this case, obviously the lower cup is the copper, And so then the flowing water or power. And so with that - We are measuring just under five volts. And the short circuit - Basically our lemon battery is awful. - Yeah, like it's impressive. - No. - The fact that it works but as well as it works is not well. Does that make any sense? - It makes no sense. - It's like- - Whatever you just said, just stop. It sucks. And to quantify the suckiness better you can listen to a motor running off our 1200 lemons versus So it wasn't looking good for the car but we weren't about to let three days of work go down the drain. - So because the battery we use a tiny, tiny high gear ratio motor 1500 to one to charge up our potential energy, So it should take about 15 and then we can release that all at once to activate our lemon juicing mechanism. - Basically like all of these to like drain the lifeblood - Maybe this was too dark. - Yeah. - Here we go. Okay, William, moment of truth. - I'm so excited. - Gimme some of that. - Cheers. - Cheers. - Oh, it's delicious. - Wow. - Refreshing, organic - Not worth 10 hours. - Amazing. - 12 hours. - Totally worth it. This is the most expensive glass of lemonade you will ever have. - Yes, that actually is a fact. - It's a win in my book. - I'm gonna finish this. - I'm not. So we let the lemons trickle and after that, the for the Volkswagen racing of a single AA battery. And I should mention that since the race team is for the race in Colorado, monstrous 48 kilowatt hour So the plan is I will add in California to this to them in time for the race in Colorado. So the measly lemon power is now inside but clearly I need to think of a plan B. Luckily I had an idea, which was to take some and a brush less motor and some custom machined aluminum plates and a steel cable to make a zip line with regenerative braking And it seemed to actually be working. All he needed now was a party and their kids. This is how much energy is in the battery. We need to get it from empty That's where I need you as you go down on this zip The worst part about a zip line and then drag it back up the hill. But I've got a little remote control here. Watch this. - [Child 1] Whoa. - Is that cool? - Yeah. - You guys wanna ride that? - Yeah. - You ready? (gentle electronic music) (kids screaming playfully) The mechanical advantage disguises it well, but the to our zip-line system here by running up the hill just one time for the world record deadlift. And to provide power to their leg muscles, we repurposed our lemon battery and everyone had to take a drink before running up the hill because as they say when make lemonade then force kids to drink it to power your regenerative zip line. So the zip-line was awesome, one of these portable drill Now for those of you here's how I'm doing so far. The lemons have enough about this far on a soccer field. And then with the lemonade in the kid's muscles and the zip line it can now travel an The problem is the race which means if we were we'd be 198 soccer fields short. So clearly that kind of power will not be breaking any records. So I'm got to come up with I'm gonna harness the power of the sun. And in hindsight, I probably because if you think sources we use are actually solar powered. Oil and coal and natural gas and swamps that originally got their power from the sun using their Even things like wind turbines because the wind blows the atmosphere unevenly. In the case of hydroelectric on the high side because And clouds are result of water you guessed it, the sun. As humans, we are even solar powered because we get our energy from plants or animals that ate plants, which again get their power from the sun. So if I'm looking for some instead of indirectly through a bunch of and losing a bunch at it makes way more sense to And so with that in mind, I and put 24 100 watt solar But there was a problem with this. When NASA sent the solar in 2004, it didn't take long until the solar panels were which effectively crippled the rover because they couldn't get And this was a huge issue. But then we got lucky and and cleaned them off, restoring the power. It turns out these mini pretty common on Mars, which around today nearly more This is also in part why on we just killed the issue altogether and slapped a nuclear reactor on the back. And while California isn't Mars, it does get pretty dusty here. So to ensure that wouldn't happen to me, I invited over some really scientists and creators, and and demonstrating how severely from the panels, I challenged and build a solution. And because our brains use up 20% of all the energy our drink more lemonade to ensure And so after pitching they settled on one and got to work. Personally, I thought it was brilliant and it's worked extremely well. And after they left I hooked it up to my So they go off for a few And so after a few days of being bombarded by photons from space we finally had the battery all So in the end I learned a lot and we And now if you'll excuse me I have an urgent delivery - I like lemonade. - [Mike] Okay, you like it Eliza? Okay.