On this episode of &quot;The Haul&quot;, we give budget-minded you can do for under 500 bucks. If you just got your hands on a 2015 or newer out there you're probably looking to do that However, the problem is, if you spend a bunch all that much to spend on your round of mods. Well, if that's the case, this video is gonna We're gonna show you our first five mods for and even performance. If you like what we're doing here at AT, be But in the meantime, let's get to our first First up, let's talk suspension. And honestly, in the world of suspension, However, there's one mod that tends to peg a strut spacer leveling kit. Now the kit we went with for this video is kit. And I like this because it's made from 100% USA, and they even throw in a bottle opener Now, leveling kit has its pros, right? It's gonna give the truck a more leveled appearance, So it's gonna make for a little bit more ground underneath your truck if you wanted to upgrade. Unfortunately, a new wheel entire combo doesn't are sticking with the factory setup here, And honestly guys, a 2.5-inch level is the It's just enough to perfectly level up the those CV angles tend to get a little bit gnarly. That's not the case if you're only stick to So getting that strut spacer design is gonna to change the altitude of that 2015 indoor the process. Our next modification might not be a necessity it, most factory trucks do offer a factory However, it's a very popular area to upgrade. So as such, I went with my personal favorite Barricade HD steel running board. Now, these things, besides being functional, I think they take the popular, and let's face boards and just kind of kicks it up a notch truck, even though, it's a pretty subtle modification. You're getting a very burly carbon steel construction. Throughout guys, traction service is here addition to a textured black powder coat. So besides just adding a nice wide step for look sharp and they fit the bill at right All right, guys, we've talked suspension, boards, let's move into performance. And for that, I select the Roush cold air Now, cold air intakes, in general, are basically It's a place where a lot of enthusiasts start importantly, they're super easy to install. And on top of that, you can be picking up sound under the hood. The Roush in particular here, I'm a big fan. Why? Well, I'm a &quot;Less is more&quot; guy. And this is a very factory looking cold air, of an aftermarket system. For one, 31% less restriction when compared Less restriction typically means more power Secondly, this is a no tune required piece, use of a tune and be good to go and make some It's a dry filter and best of all, it doesn't miles. So a lot of you guys out there might not be and that's fine, there's nothing wrong with However, something like this, you gonna basically Sure you'll wanna check it from time to time, clean this thing for up to 100,000 miles unless And for right around $370, it falls right We've got two more to go. We're moving into the back for this next one, Next up, we have a must have modification opinion. And that is some sort of tonneau cover. Now, to keep in line with this particular rolling cover here, which lends you right Now, for covers like these, guys, let's face so to have something for south of $500 is And listen, it's gonna do the job and it's one of those snap cover, which you can grab but they're not as user-friendly. Truxedo does a great job of keeping things quality materials. There's this thick leather-like green material They throw in some horizontal supports here, even if they get some snow or water on this And it does have manual adjusters for the So guys like us here in the northeast, you loosen up a little bit, you can tighten things Or in the winter time, when the material tends make it a lot easier to operate. And listen, if you're a family man like myself, got the stroller on the back, luggage, whatever, elements off of your stuff, in addition to is in the back of your bed. Sure, they're not gonna offer the level of better than having nothing at all. And honestly, guys, very simple operation One finger, you can roll this puppy up and your entire bed at a moment's notice, roll it's not gonna block the vision coming out So all together guys, again, a must-have in one of the first things truck owners should if you haul a family around all the time. We have one more modification to show you, It's underneath the trucks so we're gonna thing out. And final modification might be more appealing engine choice, of course, but it's still a I'm talking about an aftermarket exhaust system. Now, for the purposes of this video and keeping Installer Series system, and here's what it [00:07:00] [00:07:17] Now, if you have a 5-liter truck like our could probably be the very first thing you on this 5-liter power plant. However, that being said, Ecoboost, guys still a little bit. And honestly, the MBRP is a great choice for, The problem in the exhaust world is that things into those very fancy materials like stainless Now, the Installer Series, it's goal is to So you're gonna be getting aluminized steel Not a bad material, it just doesn't carry option would. And as such you're not getting a long-term But with that said, you are getting 3-inch through muffler aluminized steel tubing, but And honestly, that's the important thing, Because this is the part you're gonna be seeing a little surface corrosion over the years, good. So if you're looking to upgrade your exhaust Installer Series stuff from MBRP. It's a great bang for your buck option here Well, guys, we hope you enjoyed our first Again, this is just a great starting point massive budget to blow on fancy new parts. But as always, guys, these are just merely So if you're not in love with any of our picks rest of our selection here at AT. In the meantime, I'm Justin. Thanks for watching and for all things F-150,