Castlevania started off as a pretty straightforward These were side-scrolling action games where levels, filled with Halloween monsters. Sure, the series experimented in exploration, the level select screen in Belmont's Revenge, But, mostly, the series was completely linear. That is, until Koji Igarashi joined the team He wanted to try something different, something longer for their players. And so, inspired by The Legend of Zelda - not a Castlevania game that took place in a single, A game where you find new powers to unlock hidden loot, and grow in power over the course Which all makes 1997's Castlevania: Symphony my video series about open-ended level design: At the start of this game, though, you perhaps is a non-linear experience. We begin with a playable flashback: the ending The game wants to start on an action packed And this is a trope that lots of games will at the very beginning of Assassin's Creed And then we get to take control of our actual And again, the game wants to start on a high in the game and can murder pretty much everything Until, Death shows up and steals your stuff. This is another well worn trope: the abilitease, in the game before it's cruelly taken away This lets the game preview just how complex players the motivation to keep playing so But even after this, Symphony still plays The first part of the adventure is this linear There's a few branching paths and dead ends a magic door - but mostly you're just making Where Super Metroid immediately constrains to backtrack to show you that the path forward gives you a good hour or so of just marching Eventually, you'll get to the outer castle see that you have walked the entire width In this opening trek, the game has shown you you've only explored on one axis. This is also a good navigational trick: in a big central hub that forks off into different Think of high streets that spill off into walkways that connect up to shops. In Symphony of the Night, almost all of its that runs horizontally through the castle: at the beginning of the game. Anyway. This is where we finally hit a dead end: the feet and we simply can't move on with our If we explore in here, though, we'll find And his cheapest two items will prove useful: blue doors. And a castle map. At this point, Symphony of the Night is finally We've got a new power, but we'll need Handily, the unfinished map we just bought shows on the left, and this area down below. So we can either walk back down here, or use explore the staircase. However, only one route is correct: we really But you can also end up going completely the the castle. This is something that happens a few times the wrong way and explore areas way before And that has both advantages and disadvantages. It's cool because it lets you explore the locked into doing exactly what the designers need and organically stumbling upon interesting It also lets you add to your mental map, and And most importantly, while this lower area not entirely a waste. There are items to find that boost your health There's an unlockable relic that lets you And all sorts of items and swords and shields But this diversion can be a touch confusing, missing something or should cut their losses Anyway, the actual correct path is the royal And this area really shows how Symphony is This massive staircase and these giant bell all very eye-catching. And it's completely different to every other This really helps with your mental organisation is similar to Dark Souls in its variety. At the top of the Royal Chapel is the Leap And the game opens up a fair bit, again. Here's how much of the castle we could explore explore now we have the leap stone. Again, though, the game gives us a bunch of being dead ends. We can pop into the catacombs, but we can't We can now jump across these areas in the And we can explore more of the long library, This time, however, it's way more painful tricky to find. It's actually here: in this clock-room at Only, the path only opens up once every other miss that there even is a path when you first I certainly did. And there's no strong association between It's not like Super Metroid where you know you just can't leap high enough yet. Okay, so if you actually do find your way unlock the mist power-up. Unlike before, there's only two places where room with a couple items. The other immediately gives us the next power-up: If you forgot about those areas, though, or to be hard to find them. Symphony of the Night has a large world map It's kind of like Metroid 1, in that after the player is presented with so many places At this point of the game, I personally found bits of the map. You know, I'd spot doors that I haven't checked off, and just went over there to see I also started to notice how a lot of the The wolf power-up, and its upgrades, certainly And the fast travel points that are dotted Once you get the bat power-up, the game opens This is only the fourth critical power-up, castle and go off and explore loads of new In fact, while you can get five relics at the Jewel of Open, two after getting the Leap you can now go get a whopping 10 different castle. It might have been nice to spread them out One other place we can go with the bat is And fight Richter. And end the game. Wait, what? Oh yes! The classic "bad ending" fake out! Hopefully at this point you'll realise that And that there's loads more of the castle And Richter probably isn't a bad guy. And so you should probably load up your save I really like this idea. It makes the game feel mysterious and surprising. And it encourages some proper exploration Like, maybe you'll fly down here and find It's relatively easy to find, and it's "Wear.... Clock". Hm... A clue in an item's description? That certainly reminds me of something... The other ring is a lot harder to find. You need to go here and get the echo of bat. Then go down into the catacombs and fly through This gives you the spike breaker so you can Put the two item descriptions together and So you do just that, a new area opens up, you see that Richter is being controlled by Kill him, and something absolutely bonkers The game isn't over yet. Not by a long shot. Because there's an entirely new castle to Well, it's just like the old one, only it's Personally, I found this section to be totally Traversal is really annoying unless you just There's no longer any real surprises about And pacing wise, I just kind of wanted the It felt like this annoying extra epilogue What I do like, however, is that the only down five items: the ring, eye, tooth, rib, And you can do them in any order! Where the beginning part of the game is strictly then the Mist, then the Bat - the latter half you can get the gold and silver rings in either in any order you like. This is what I wanted in Super Metroid, where last three bosses in any order. And it's similar to the four Lord Souls If you get all of those pieces of Vlad you can the game, and see the proper ending. So, Symphony of the Night is a thrilling game. Its gothic castle spills out in all directions, tonnes of tiny surprises. But I think it makes a pretty fundamental opening up the castle very quickly as you And I admire that - I like how it's so open. But because the first half of the game sticks you can be wandering around a huge castle for while you're looking for the one single location you can go to next to make any meaningful progress. Of course, there's lots of other things relics and items and health potions. But a lot of that stuff is pretty pointless of the swords, shields, and armour will be already carrying. So ultimately, it's a game that is at once can lead to some frustration. I hope that didn't come off too harsh. There's loads to love about Symphony of It just makes a few stumbles in its world And games have definitely been taking inspiration. New indie releases like Chasm and Timespinner swear there's a little of this in Dark Souls, Plus, the entire Castlevania series pretty of level design, in games like Aria of Sorrow Players just needed a way to differentiate linear ones of the past. One player suggested, a little snarkily, to And it stuck, giving us a name for all sorts And speaking of Metroid, that's where we're season: the Gamecube's wonderful Metroid See you then.