- [Host] This is the Nielsen (bright music) - I am Tim Neusesser, and I'm not Therese Fessenden, who's usually the host of this podcast and the person you might have expected. Therese is on maternity leave right now. And during this time, Samhita will be your hosts of the NN/g UX Podcast. Therese, if you're listening, and eagerly await your return. In today's episode, we dive into a subject that's capturing the attention of many: artificial intelligence. We'll explore how AI is and professional lives, the evolving impact it and how we can stay Additionally, we'll discuss and the journey towards making To explore this topic, I spoke First, we have Henry Modisett, the head of design at Perplexity AI. Henry brings a wealth of knowledge in AI and he'll share valuable the challenges, and Our second guest is Kate Moran, the vice president of research and content here at Nielsen Norman Group. She will offer a unique So without further ado, (bright music) I think it's gonna be really interesting to have, like, two different perspectives. Kate, she's here at NN/g, right? We're more the researchers, maybe have a little and try to kind of educate the whole UX industry about UI. And then you, Henry, really and really designing an AI tool. So way more hands-on, and I think it's gonna be really - Yeah. two perspectives meeting here today and discussing it. So maybe Henry, you could kick us off and tell us a little the tool that you're working on, and maybe what's your core mission there? - Sure. Yeah, so Perplexity is, we've kind of tried to describe what it is a lot of times but like, the core purpose that answered any question And so when we got this first version of Perplexity working, and I was like, &quot;Oh, this is what I, this is this thing I've And so we've been building just, like, functionality that we wanted to use, that we thought might be useful and kind of built a mission around that, if that makes sense. So, you know, by all accounts, but Perplexity is supposed to get information. And what it's become is, I think something even bigger than that, which is if you have all the information that's available in the and you wanna learn something, well, Perplexity has become this bridge between you and that information and not just like, you know, there's a basic version of it finds summary, it finds moments, like, where things need or pulled apart. Like, maybe there's two viewpoints and it will represent It does all that, but as like a translator, sometimes to another or sometimes from like, &quot;Hey, I have a PhD in math. Tell me about nuclear fission. Like, I understand a lot.&quot; Or &quot;I'm in middle school. Tell me about nuclear fission. I don't know anything.&quot; And it becomes this, like, like, you know, all that's been compressed So, sorry, it's a very long-winded answer, but we really kind of did start by just building something and then we shared it and and then we built a company. - That's awesome. You know, tools like Perplexity kind of remind me of the early days of Google. So I was a '90s kid and a nerdy kid, like, kind of a techie kid. And I remember when Google first came out, it was so much better And I remember this feeling of like, &quot;Oh God, like, I can learn anything. Like, anything I'm curious But of course, with search, there's a lot of manual work involved with that information seeking process, like, formulating your queries, scanning for the information. And it's really exciting. Again, like, I kind of get with tools like Perplexity that information seeking process. It's really exciting. - Yeah, Kate kind of, let's say an updated or upgraded It's a better tool to find information. Henry, like you said, not but sometimes also, like, processing it and translating it into something that it's maybe more What do you think makes and maybe sets you up to be the that everybody is using? Because there's so many How do you try to distinguish - Yeah, absolutely. Well, there's like a, I could write, like, to that, I guess, but I think to compete with Google And I think if we had, that would've probably We started by just trying to build things that would be useful for and then learned what would and then kind of, like, until people were like, &quot;Oh, of other tools.&quot; And that's kind of like, I think the only way, but the cool thing is that we, what I have conviction about is that what is the best thing as fast as possible. And that's been, like, a flag that we planted really early on in terms of the product design and the engineering principles, right? Like, that is the most literally in how the technology works, but also in the user experience. And that kind of has, just being obsessed with that and being obsessed with like, in a way that would to process, that just has And also, like, there's a lot of ways in where it just immediately feels like a lot of work, like you said earlier. And so the product kind that because of our, it feels funny to say, like, our niche, even though it's, like, one So it's, like, a very universal niche of just wanting information but that's, like, oh yeah, go ahead. - I was just gonna say, but that is a niche though if you compare it to - Yeah, it is. what is ChatGPT a tool for? Kind of whatever you can think of. - Yeah. when tools are, you know, broader use like that, when it's often harder to design - Absolutely. - So Henry, like, what even if it's a big niche, like, having even a has kind of played in Perplexity success? - Well, it makes the design a lot easier, but the hardest part was and having the conviction to not, like, I mean, it's a trap to fall into when you're building a startup and going zero to one to, and then, like, make minor tweaks to it. It just never works. Or maybe it can if your business is Your operations work different But when design, when product in which your business is differentiated, you kind of have to just, like, ignore But it's all the details that change and yeah, you said it, right? Like, OpenAI, they're but they're building a different thing and they're building a platform for all kinds of use cases And I don't know, platforms most complex design problems because you have to build to work in ways you don't even know, and you don't even know how And therefore, it's really hard for any individual experience, any individual, like, So then for us, just being very confident in as fast as possible and want Well then, it's, like, actually quite a simple design problem. And that's why the product kind of, in some sense, feels quite simple. There's the sources and and it's not a conversation. It just told you what you And delivering on that and providing multi-modalities We'll show you texts, we'll show you images, just trying to, like, give you instantly what you wanted and in a variety of forms. And then it should feel kind of, you know, like, it just works. - And it seems like you were with the design on making this Someone is seeking information and you wanna make it super easy that they can access... - Yeah. And it seems like you've I know you just got your series B funding with 73 million. We have Nvidia involved, So it seems like it's recognized then you're moving somewhere. What do you think is maybe the What does it set you up for? Where do you see Perplexity How can you make it maybe even easier to find that information? - Yeah, yeah. I mean, so my strategy for making it easy at the beginning was, okay, what's happening here is There's a search engine, multiple uses of it at different stages. But when you just try it, it works. And if you can just think you can see how the product is unique. And so my goal is to just on this new magical thing. And also just, like, I've worked on consumer products my whole career and I kind of know how hard it is to get people to kind of do anything. And so I think, like, the it has sort of, like, You look at it, you squint, you kind of, like, hit the and just if hopefully that aligns with what the product's supposed to do, and then people can just kind I think that's the best you Like, people just have no, and especially a free product, you've got, like, 300 milliseconds before they decide that they don't get it or that it sucks or whatever. So anyways, that has been, I don't know, like, mindset, I think, and just being humble about that. But yeah, we've found a lot of traction, which is, obviously, very amazing. And I think it's been cool because we just had all this conviction about what the product, how the product should be, and then using it ourselves, and then it's just really, like, a, how do we tell more people which is a fun place to be in because... - [Kate] That's great. depth to the experience. And yeah. - Whenever I'm talking to of interfaces for these AI tools, I'm often pointing to specific things that y'all have done at And I think that focus on - Yeah. - And thinking about this being for, like, the general public has been a really big you know, these tools are, they're trying to get better. I mean, we have, like, you know, that looks like it'll have maybe a... - Yeah. but, like, these were clearly tools that were made for nerds. - Yeah. who can figure it out. Not made for, you know, - Yeah. - To understand. Yeah, no, well, I mean, you have to essentially, like, a Like, it was never meant And what's amazing is it became the most successful of all time, right? And that just speaks to how, you know, the novelty of this technology and of LLMs and these models, right? So yeah, nobody was really trying to make a consumer product, And the people, you know, thank God for all these amazing engineers who are just, like, and share it and not worry about the UI because, you know, if you you probably wouldn't have built any, no one would've built And I really believe in, especially with new stuff. I love beautiful interfaces but it can hold you back. And we're in this, like, really and sharing and not everyone's even trying to build a business, right? There's all this open source stuff. I think there's just an energy and exploring and enjoying - Yeah, that's super interesting. You said you're kind of at where you have to get more then they start using it, right? So now you kind of figured of course, not fully, and now you kind of have - Yeah. of the biggest challenges and that you see in the future as well... - Yeah. for, like, everybody, right? Just like Google, almost but how do we get AI where everybody all around and, like, figure out how - Yeah. like you said earlier, or maybe how to generate - Why it's hard is we still We still have people and they maybe use ChatGPT and us, or maybe they're like, even there's some even and they're like, &quot;Man, I up the temperature on or even switch the model or maybe show two outputs simultaneously.&quot; And it's really hard to be like, &quot;Sorry, we're not really building that.&quot; But then at the same time, I've done user research or talked to users and there are buttons on the screen. There's not that many and that they don't even see, right? So it's like this is the major challenge of balancing at a basic user spectrum, we have that, which is like, I mean, a blessing to have the spectrum available - [Kate] Really hard. - Yeah. And what's so cool, I guess, is, so the dream product, the that I've always wanted, right, that anyone probably wants as a designer, is to be able to show for them, right? Like, if you're a new user, you kind of, like, get easy mode, and then when you're a power user, you somehow get power user however that manifests. And the closest I've ever seen to this is maybe in video games, but what's cool is I feel like of that pretty soon with how, even with our product, we have some generative like, as the designer, you have like, Dear AI, you have the choice between text input, radio button, things like that. And you pick the right interface to show. Like, we're giving it the choice to then present the right interface. I can totally imagine that of a reality where, we could kind of, like, let and the capabilities unravel and it can be a truly - [Kate] So exciting. it sounds like, yeah, on one hand, exciting, kind of terrifying to, like... - Design for... - But I really believe that's gonna be the best Okay, as a counterpoint, I was in the middle of nowhere from a major city wearing And a group of four people that are like my parents' and they said, &quot;Hey, are you And I was like, &quot;What?&quot; And I say, &quot;Well, yeah, I worked there.&quot; And they're like, they were shocked to see And I was shocked that they're but they're like, &quot;We use it. We like that it's fast and simple&quot;. And I was like, &quot;Okay, well, I'm done. I did it.&quot; - You can retire. Yeah. - I can't believe it. So anyways, somebody's figuring it out. - I wanna talk a little bit more about this idea of generative interfaces, because I've been... - Yeah. to see this appearing more in our field. And it's really exciting to hear that you guys are already Is that happening in the Copilot feature? - Yes. Yeah, that's where it lives. for listeners who aren't as one of the things I really that I think they're doing well is they have this Copilot feature, which you can enable that if you submit an information request and it has clarification it will ask those questions And I think that's a because we're seeing you know, general side, we're seeing a lot of to know how to use these things, how to write their questions. So you get a little window you know, you asked about and are you talking you know, and so you can So can you tell us a So like, how that generative - Yeah, I mean, this is one of our, I think, most interesting features and it's a very nascent concept, but yeah, the idea is and then it tries to figure out if maybe you would benefit and it'll ask you questions back. But what's cool is, like, you can ask anything it feels like it learns the and becomes an expert in, like, you know, seconds and then produce, you're like, &quot;Hey, I'm And it's like, &quot;Okay, well Do you want an infrared And I am always kind of surprised when I ask, like, something But the other part of it is, so like I said, I mean, a core product principle and typing sucks, Like, why should people And it's also not, like, the best way, it's not necessary and it's to capture information all the time. It's not the most efficient interface. So like, for example, let's or buy a plane ticket and it's, like, trying when, a date picker is a great interface. Why would I type something? You know what I mean? So there are plenty of that we don't need to throw away. And so what Copilot does is it, it tries to figure out what you want and maybe down a little bit more and to use different interfaces to more efficiently extract So sometimes it'll radio inputs. So yeah. - That is so cool. And it's just, like, a small But like... - I'm really excited to see where as, you know, a UX and design and like, where that ends up, like, as you said, on the fly, design interfaces to the individual. And I'm thinking about Henry, that Perplexity can on your experience and your knowledge. Which is not something... - I had thought of or tested or ever So that's awesome. And that's another thing for the future of information seeking. - Yeah. been a challenge we've seen in research where, you who has a PhD in oceanography. - Right. for something. He's seeing a lot of stuff that's meant for middle schoolers. - Yeah, yeah. - And I'm also thinking about, like, these are some that UX and design has faced for as long as I have been in this field. - Yeah. on 15 years. And it's exciting to think about a future where we can actually tailor - Yeah. you said earlier there, Henry. You're kind of taking small And Henry, you said, we see we take something from there. We know radio buttons, so we know other... - UI elements and you and mix it together in a novel way on a new playing field, right? - [Henry] Yeah. - But I think that's probably the best way to make new tools usable because then people are and already figured out, have so they already know how to use it. And then it's just the of your tool... - They have to understand that, but they don't have to or they already know most of it so they don't have to - Absolutely. - Yeah. it can further help people to actually understand, like, how to even get better Because I've always... - Seen these, like, long lists of how to write a prompt, how to write... - Yeah. I don't know, how to build a sauna, right? Or something else. And you said the first step is maybe having your AI like, can you give me... - Yeah. but what's maybe the next step after that? - Yeah, well, I think I kind of treat it as a normal consumer cold I mean, with prompting, like, the worst software experience ever. I mean, if you've ever it's awful as an experience, but the payoff's amazing, right? So people do it, but we're in a small blip where this is even gonna be a thing. There's no way it survives. Like, well, actually we on our product, but it's just a button that's, like, you want it to look like an illustration and you click that button and then there's a lot of prompting. I spent hours of my life but I don't want users to have to do that. So, yeah, I think to make it intuitive, like I said, I take a which is people need to feel somehow bought into, first you need to understand Again, you've got, And then ideally, you can look away to build that mental model and start to be modeled, like, So, you know, when you boot you've never seen it, heard of it, it's pretty easy to figure out what it is. And you don't learn how to make a TikTok by jumping right into the creation flow. You learn how to make TikTok And maybe, like, when you get in there, there's a little bit of I've never done it, but I'm sure there's, like, But I don't think any 'cause when you watch people use software, they just click on stuff really fast. Nobody's reading anything. They're just trying stuff, And so for us, like, I mean, if you go to our homepage or making a new account, there's just, like, a couple and you can type in and it You can just type something, maybe how you would use Google or ChatGPT. But then there's a couple that are examples and it's, and just questions. Maybe one of those, you're like, &quot;Okay, I guess I'll see what and then hopefully you get it. Because there's a lot of things we could have put on the homepage that we didn't. It's all, in the end, I think my goal is just And I'm gonna just keep And I think another consumer strategy is around, like, making it feel like you've got some skin in the game or some kind of connection to it. So maybe when you're signing up, you tell us about yourself or something or you fill out some kind of profile. That does work as well. So you feel like, &quot;All right, I've invested in this a little bit. I'm gonna give it a couple extra minutes in my evaluation time.&quot; Because people balance if they don't get it That's just the nature of consumer. - I love it. I love what you said. Sorry, Kate. I have it right behind me here, right? - Yeah. - You said I have so but we really want to keep it to its core because it should be Kate, your turn. - So I love this conversation 'cause we're talking We've used this term a couple times. I just wanna define it who's not familiar with... - Sure, yeah, sorry. - Jargon. Yeah, I mean, our field is which makes it so hard to get in here. So when we're talking about mental models, we're thinking about the way that the user understands and what it can do for them and how they're supposed to use it. So it's very much connected to, like, a lot of times what people are doing when they're forming new mental models is they're leveraging prior experience with similar things. - So, you know, Henry, you've already talked to leverage things from consumer apps that people have experiences with. So they kind of have a sense for how they're supposed to use it, which is best practice for UX. We are really interested and we're doing a lot of especially people who are not us, who're not, like, techie, how they're experiencing and how they're figuring... - Out what they are. So I think a big advantage over something like ChatGPT kind of of related to the narrowness, so that Perplexity can because it does provide, you know, this is an understatement, but it does provide So we've seen in, like, the when people are new to ChatGPT, they'll try to type in, like, keywords 'cause that's what... - They're used to. - That does not work with ChatGPT. - It has no idea what you're asking for. But with Perplexity... - It can probably guess. And then with that Copilot feature, there's even that handholding to say, - Right. about what you mean. Yeah, we make this big assumption that you're trying to get information and that just, like... - It's huge. over the hump of, like, to understanding what it is, and then, you know, people, but people try to use it like It's not really there to chat with you. And that's okay. It's about... - Information. - How do you think these AI tools, they're changing everybody's life, right? What do you think is maybe a How we live and how we work through these, your AI tools? - Yeah. Well, I kind of just think, like, everybody is going be empowered by whatever they do. There'll be something that, whether it's if they're doing research, I mean, for us, it's really all And I'd like to think that And also maybe there's new things, new behaviors that might open up that, like, you didn't Like, the one that we've I'm still trying to wrap on our app, you can take a photo and have that be your question. So I can take a photo of, like, I don't know, like, I've seen but like, I'll, you know, or something and I'll be like, &quot;What's a good name for him?&quot; And like, something like that. And it, like, figures out that it's a dog and it figures out that And it's like, &quot;What about Coco?&quot; You know? And it's like, &quot;Oh my god.&quot; You know, there's stuff that, like... - Is that what you named your dog? - No, I didn't. I named him Rupert, but... - Also a great name. - Yeah. But you know, and I've they'll whiteboard an interface and then they'll take a photo and they'll be like, &quot;Write some code that makes this.&quot; So there's a lot of things we are definitely doing a lot of let's just build it and see Less about, like, some vision It's just more, like, I don't know, this could be useful maybe. I don't know. There's a combination &quot;This is definitely useful.&quot; And then another set where I'm like, &quot;I have no idea what to do with this.&quot; But somebody will come up with some ways. And that's the coolest You don't have to think - Which is like the polar opposite of how UX used to work. - Right. Yeah. - Yeah, that is really exciting. And, you know, I'm thinking back to something you said at Henry, where you're like, &quot;Well, we started with this purpose and then that kind of And we just keep, you know, And you know, talking about how you're I think this technology, the pace of it, this development is just so beyond anything we've seen before. - Yeah. as an AI company, you probably are gonna have as, you know, things change. - For sure. place to work and, like, - Yeah, I mean, I've been through this and I mean, to be clear, we've only really been and we built a lot. And if we have a strength as a team, it's our agility and you know, kind of our open-mindedness to, okay, well, let's try And, you know, I care a lot about craft and so I'm gonna execute on it to the best of my abilities. But yeah, like, the image thing, you know, we find out and we're like, &quot;What How is it gonna work in our product? Does it make sense in our product?&quot; Because there's some stuff that doesn't and we have to have some kind of, you know, idea of who we are But yeah, I mean, I expect the market, there's the technology, there's the market, they're all nuts. You know, there's a massive, massive competition happening and we're just kind of, to make a useful product, which is, I don't know, it's a nice kind of And you know, on our product, if you pay for our pro version, you can use OpenAI's models, you can use Anthropic's. So we are really more focused that's like a product and a brand and something that people wanna use and building just like the way you would build a normal So I think if we were, if we were trying to compete head on with, you know, these massive AI research teams, like, it would be much more stressful. - I think that's your in a lot of ways, because like we saw after ChatGPT exploded in a way that nobody predicted, we saw all these companies &quot;Ah, we've gotta get AI.&quot; And there's a lot of, between the competitors. And so people aren't really that's innovative or different. And I think that's part of - Yeah. - It's actually why the in the last, I don't know, - Yeah. - Kate, what do you as NN/g in there, right? Because we've never seen it change so fast in these tools and the world is changing really fast for all these designers, but also for all the consumers as well. So what's our role in this? To be honest, it's been kind of chaotic. You know, usually, like, NN/g, we kind of pride ourselves like a bridge between kind and practical style research. - And we try to be a voice And kind of anytime there's we try to be measured with our approach and, you know... - Not make kind of, like, And I think we're still and we are playing that role and we're trying to help people. You know, something that Caleb Sponheim, one of our coworkers at NN/g who's actually creating our - [Henry] Cool. to me is, you know, there's a lot of noise about what AI is gonna mean for UX and there's not a lot of signal. - [Henry] Right, yeah. prompt guides. There's all these, like, like, you know, just that, oh, this is gonna change you know, getting overexcited at times about that kind of stuff. But we're really trying to but also make sure that we're that's actually based on reason - [Henry] Right. in front of us. - I think the thing I feel confident in is that not everything - Yes, same. most products should not be a chat. And most products, I think that most products don't benefit from having, like, an Like, this technology, there's a lot of, there's actually this tech, AI, right, there's a lot of things happening. There's the generative there's that, there's the LMs, it's just gonna be available in everything and in everywhere. It'll be kind of just, like, a way to enable some - It's automation. Yeah. And it'll make some new and it'll make some old software and just, like, accelerate it and, yeah. - I agree with that. Yeah, definitely not We're seeing, like, a lot of, you know, these poor executives at these like, &quot;You have to put So they're, like, a chat 'cause that's kind of, like, the example that's held up before them. - Yeah. Henry, that, like, the anthropomorphizing is not necessary in every context. And I actually have an example, kind of a LinkedIn debate that I've been in this week is around the There's actually a company with that name, but there's this debate, you know, do we need to have user research if we can have AI pretending to be people giving us And what I'm kind of stuck on is, first of all, no, I And second of all, why do they Why can't it be, you know, why can't you train a model on how experts evaluate systems based on heuristics and and then present it that way? Why do you have to pretend - Yeah. giving, you know, her feedback. - Yeah, 'cause there's an uncanny valley no matter what, right? Yeah, and the danger and I also think, like, this is kind of causing some collective, but there's some moral panic happening in society as a whole. - Yeah. of fear that, like, these things are gonna And I think the fact that on a lot of these things... - Yeah. to that. maybe to wrap it up here, what you just said, Kate, there's a lot of hype around it, right? And a lot of people are afraid, and I think part of it Henry, we make people, or especially you, and all the AI tools There's a lot of automation, right? So the world is changing in itself, and the way we work is also changing. What is maybe something to not be left behind, right? Because I think that's - [Henry] Yeah. everything is changing. Like, what's gonna happen in five years, or in 10 years, right? For Kate and Henry, what is something that people like, work against this fear? - That's an interesting question. 'Cause I guess I kind of feel like the, I kind of feel like, 'cause I'm on the other side, right? I feel maybe more like if we don't make software that's useful, all this technology goes to waste. And 'cause I feel like on us, on anybody. And so it's not, I kind of don't see it as, like, I see it more as, like, to make some stuff that's useful and fit it into people's lives. It's, like, on us to And like, I don't think people There's always people that There's always, like, an appetite. There's always a long tail of people that eventually catch up. But I mean, obviously, I mean, this is, like, just be open to trying stuff. But I don't know, like, as we've got the whole world about our thing that we've made and we're never gonna be successful if we ask anybody to change who they are and how they feel about software. So it's more like, how do we tell the story - I love that, Henry, you know, just try it. Don't freak out. Don't be afraid of it. Just try it. I think that's really important because we see that, over time, individuals who are afraid of new products and don't at least try them and kind of form these those are the people that get left behind and they're afraid of using technology. They don't understand it. So for example, my grandmother... - Yeah. - She retired kind of later in life and she worked in she had to learn how to design things... - Yeah. and use the internet. And eventually, she started coding HTML 'cause she was just curious about it. And now she... - Runs her garden club website, which is amazing. Yeah. - So, I think that's a good example of, like, you don't have to at which things are changing unless it's your job or it's something that you're interested in, in which case, it's really fun to follow, I find, but you should use this, you know, to keep up kind of, but also just because they're good tools that make your life easier. - [Henry] For sure. - So I have a great example of this. I was just visiting a friend in San Diego who is a biologist. She's a researcher and And she was telling me one of my, the things I have to do as part of my job is keep up to date on recent research on measles, but it's really hard to find the time to find these research And I was like... - Why aren't you using Perplexity? I pulled it up. I was, like, summarize the and like... - Showed it to her. And I was like, &quot;This could be, like, saving you so much time, making you better...&quot; - [Henry] Yeah. making your life less stressful.&quot; - Well, Henry, Kate, thank you so much for being on the show. I really enjoyed the conversation. I think I'm even more more excited for the intersection of AI and user experience and - Thank you for having me. Thanks, Tim. - That was Henry Modisett and Kate Moran. Check the show notes for links so far, but also remember that we have thousands and reports on our research, strategy, and even UX careers. That website is www.nngroup.com. That is N-N-G-R-O-U-P.com. And if you enjoyed this episode, please follow or subscribe on your podcast platform of choice and share your thoughts This episode was hosted and produced by me, Tim Neusesser. All video editing and post-production is by the Larry Moore Production Company. That's it for today's show. Until next time. And remember, keep it simple. (bright music)