Well, today is something I have Rick Renner, one of my We've been friends He attended the church I his ministry grow to it's just such an honor And so, Rick, thank you Well, I want to say It's always a privilege Yeah. Well, you and. Denise, thank you. And I, I think we've known I know, I know, and we're And I'll tell you. It makes it more special. And we've come a Hey, thank you, pastor Bob. I know before we get started, I book, and I just want to tell this book yet, you And it's theology. Simplified volume two. It is wonderful. Please be sure to Yes. So Joyce Meyer read the first one day and said I said, well, I'm coming Would you write a foreword? And she said, yes. So I'm just honored She doesn't write So that was that was And it's like it's like a page and a half long So I was really honored. So I want to thank. You for writing that book. It's it's exactly It is theology simplified. Anybody can understand it. Well that's good. That's what I've always You can take something really that anybody can get it. And I've been feeding Yeah, well, my example Whenever I'm sure while he was his crowd that People started to snooze and her head. And so he would suddenly throwing yeast into So all the women would Then he says, like throwing And all the farmers would And then he'd say, it's like All the fishermen would He always looked for ways for the doctrines of Amen. Amen. Help us. Help us do that Amen. Well, I just want to talk on in the world, because you're on the other side of the planet. I'm on this side of the planet. And just to take a look around I wanted to bring this up, our South Korea. It hasn't been It was started by Billy Graham, get together without any agenda We're not going to do this feel important enough, And so he said, there were so from around the world that came. And the thing that got interesting, was we often sit problems and we try to But what he found out was the every nation. I mean, education, we're children being taught All the problems we're facing And he understood something here worldwide to pull us So anyway, he came back and And so it really it really got that every nation is evangelism, not with trying to trying to internally Although if they can, they handled by winning There is massive numbers being that he pointed out to was a print Bibles in every language. And they were there were so had not received a There are only 1000 nations getting that from Bible And they're doing it so fast. And right now we're seeing this world needs is Jesus Christ Everybody is open. And evangelism is a very easy because even the sinners This planet isn't wasn't So I just want to talk to you what's going on in the world. You have probably a better sitting here in this communication with others. And I just wanted to ask you world today and what Well, I think the world has And, you know, the Bible tells two, the end of the age that And that's really a good living in. And pastor Bob, I was thinking this week about the Well, the word transgression barrier or a boundary. And I'm thinking about in our such a big word. Trans gender. transhumanism, and it's a day kinds of boundaries that no one and people are throwing But, you know, people And I personally believe one of is because the church has Yes, we have to teach the Bible. And in so many places today, book among other resources. The verse by verse teaching of almost been lost. Yes, so even the church is they're not hearing the verse Of course I know I'm preaching verse by verse teacher. Yeah, but we have a whole word of God. Now, inspirational preaching that topical preaching. That's great. There's a place for that. But when you teach verse by verse, you hit Mhm. And in the process, what God says on so And when the verse by verse disappears from the church, the church becomes And I believe that's a major And we have to return to the by verse and word by word. But, you know, I was I was You know, I write books. So I was in the lounge and I Bible open, and a man just over at me and he said, sir, Can you please come talk to me? I said, well, sure. So I went over and pulled He was a Jewish individual, multi, multi, multi-millionaire He began to cry. He said, now I know you're a need help. He said, what has He said my kids were Where in New York City they change their gender. So I put them in parochial would be safe. He said they're getting the same message in Wow. He said, please tell me need to do to save my family? Talk about an open door. And this is really a time People are wondering what is I know people are confused I know people are wondering what does the And I'm glad that we know That's right. Well, you're And I think it's interesting, word that Jesus marked the last the coming of Jesus. For the church is number one, nations and things about just being thrown at us. But the other thing is, Jesus coming a time you'll be hated of all nations for To me, that's one of the the rapture. The only way that's going removed from around the world, that keeps bringing the issue trying to. I look at the decisions being today, and I look back at 1948, the United Nations Now, the United Nations had everything they can But Jesus prophesied And in the meantime, again, Because what's going to happen begins, there's going The first thing that happens start taking it to the world. So even in that moment when the when Antichrist can step in. He can't even step That's the power of the So once he steps into that to start again. It's always the answer to the And then get into a good church teaching because it comes It's the source of salvation, and it's the source And we see we're seeing But what we see right now is there's not a whole lot And I say that because, I mean, it used to be in There were some great ones, liberalism, this, this So anyway, what do I know you visit it quite often. Well, it's, you know, 30 years the stance that politicians today are taking against Israel. Pastor Bob, I remember the day about Golda Meir year in everybody was hip, hip. Hooray for Israel. And today the tide And I was just listening to believer who said, in many ways, right now we We're standing alone. But you know what? God is standing with them. And this is also a We're seeing it all unfold It is amazing. And this is a time for You know, when I grew up and used to sing the song Care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save. Uh huh. Well, you know what? There's never been a time rescuing the perishing We got to preach And people try all kinds of Well, we're going to elect this change everything. All right. Let's talk about that. So let's say the United States the president of the United presidential decrees Then the next guy comes in, all those decrees, which means It was just a bandage. And we're never going to change culture and society We've got to do it through When you change men's hearts, that's when you change That's right. And I think that if we would much energy into preaching and we have all this passion about politics, we would I have not seen such a dramatic today, that they suddenly fighting is going on between them turning against Israel. This is so strange. They go to school with Jewish, in college. They know them, but yet This has to be demonic because friends the United Our relationship with them. I mean, some of the most has come through Israel. And I'm talking about, I'm talking about medicine. Everything that you can think their ability to, you know, exploration, all that stuff has and other nations, too. And they're just so And to look at that I can't think of a nicer nation but yet the world hates them. It has to be demonic. It has to be satanic. And of course, we know But I'm so glad I've In fact, the thing you're talking about is This whole thing is when Jesus never have to vote on Thank God we won't. We won't have to have a The Supreme Court will be the They'll make the decision. That's it. We'll have that. I do too. And so all the other things won't we won't have We'll just have we'll And the good news is, it's all for everybody. Not just for a few businessmen government in one We're going to see honesty come we've got to wait for that time. In the meantime, God's given us world and preach the gospel. And even through the going to be preached until So. As you said, there's going to harvest during the tribulation. There is massive. Pastor. Pastor Bob, until the We're to preach and we're That's that's really who we are. We are the a great restrainer. Just imagine if suddenly suddenly there was no presence Darkness would just rush in and it's waiting for that right now. I know, and it's it's amazing church, we see our defects, we have them all. But yet with our defects and is so strong that we're We are holding it back. And as long as we preach, as is supposed to do, we will Yes, but boy, I am looking rapture takes place. And you know, some people these pre-trib rapture. You know that they even They say, oh, you're Well, let me tell I'm ready to get out But until that moment, I don't live with an escapism mentality. We are to do a lot. We've got to preach the gospel. We've got to help people. We've got to reach out to We've got to bring There's a lot to do, and I believe in the rapture are just thumbs, waiting for No, we've got a lot to do to But even after the rapture, the rapture is for a specific thing. It's to take us out and give his absolute best. And then Jesus comes But we're in. We're in heaven for seven We're fashioned into the bride. We are not the bride, yet But we can't become the Go to the judgment seat of wrinkle is removed. At the end of that time when ever done wrong that we didn't is taken care of in heaven. It's called wood, hay and straw after the fire descends on precious stones. Then we will be adorned as Then he will bring us back So we're not going to heaven to sit there and escape We're going to go through some to fashion us into the bride. I don't know what all is going to go to heaven as the church and come The bride has not yet We're the bride right now, but to come back with him. He's going to present So I'm glad that you I'm glad clarity needs to be brought church, because a lot of people moment when suddenly we're we're perfect. And that's when the Yeah, well, as long as we're in going to attain that status. No. But when we go to heaven wrinkles are going And I'm so glad you said that? Well, yeah, I tell people, I don't believe that Mr. Spot and heaven and you're going to But the first way you get rid this body. This is where our problem is. And that's going to dissolve. We'll go to heaven in Then he can deal with the down here, because even the new birth doesn't It removes every sin. It removes my, you Now it's changed into But he still has a lot And that's why he leaves us church, get filled with the care of those problems yourself you're raptured up here, we'll you're going to come back as a and he'll present I say that in the resurrection, be the ultimate facelift. All the wrinkles are Everything's going I mean, we're going to And then at the end of that come the parousia. And when he comes, The Greek word parousia was a describe the arrival of a king right and authority to And when Jesus comes, he's setting everything right. And we are going And what a glorious Yeah, but until the rapture of best to take as When the rapture takes place. That's right. The thing I see, too, it's brought out in the book of Joel. God's compassion for people to be saved goes up God knows exactly and is posted exactly how long the So many days for the first numbers for the second half. When we come to the end of before that time period ends. And on that last day, in fact, the book of Joel. In one day, Anti-christ's army Jerusalem, and they're going to to get up a demon So precision that even They run in precision. They don't break their ranks. This is the type of army that's going to be there So as that battle is going on, night, get up the next day, one and Antichrist thinks Satan thinks they're And they wake up the next The earth is black for 24 hours. I mean, you can't see your It's a supernatural darkness. Just like when Jesus was on darkness appeared and you of your face. This is not a light. You can't turn a It is so pitch black. Nothing can be seen. It's going to last for 24 the Valley of Jehoshaphat. And Jehoshaphat means He's going to give people 24 to see anything, or for 24 think they can't do anything. That's why it's called They're going to have 24 hours to accept Jesus as At the end of that 24 hours, from the east to the west, will penetrate supernatural They're there. They're searchlights can't And they're just sitting The whole world does, too, for more person to accept Because when Jesus comes back And that's how much God Why can't we just grab that simple concept, Jesus came to this earth That's why he came and he wants So those watching this you and watching me, I just Just when a soul leave the there, do get involved. We're supposed to pray for authority over. We're supposed to do our part, but our major part Angels don't rejoice over Angels rejoice over one person that accepts Jesus Of course we need to vote and we need to fulfill But that doesn't that doesn't which is preaching the gospel. But, pastor Bob, what you hours, I have never heard That's going to end Do I have your permission? Go ahead. Go ahead. That was just powerful. Look at the mercy of God. I know, and you know, when three, Peter says, hey, the his promise that the Greek word really means he's not retarded. There's nothing wrong He's really going to come, willing that any should perish. And look at that. I know at the end of the Great to be holding out, giving the world a 24 hour That is amazing. I know that is the heart of God that needs to be our Thank you for saying that. Oh you're welcome. Well, right now, the church is the forces of Satan and will be taken again. Thessalonians tells us that back Antichrist from You in your latest book. I go ahead. No. I was going. To say a lot of people are Nobody's going to No, he will not be revealed And second Thessalonians The Greek says, then at that we have been removed. Then the man of lawlessness He's not going to be revealed Which also means people that is this the mark of the beast, or is that the You know what? We may see things that are leading up to the The mark of the beast is going That's right. It's going to happen So you can put People are always trying to figure out who I want to ask you a question. In your last book that was fallen angels and and children and, uh, anyway, all the things thing I want to bring out was, fact, if you know Some people are going to not this, but the Bible indicates fallen angels Had sex with It's argument on both sides, That's exactly what it says. And that's why God had to and put him into Tartarus. And they've been And some will be released they've been there And because they did that and when the people on the earth that were the So we get back to all that I you've ever thought about this, this is, I believe, that Satan and a woman. He's the only fallen angel on Rosemary's Baby and The Omen, you know that the that offspring of Satan and a woman. And do you have you Do you agree with that? Well, when Rosemary's Baby first came out, Probably you were. You were a teenager. I remember, I remember You know what? I think the spirit That the the Antichrist, maybe You know, sometimes I know he might have been That might have been a spirit realm, and I do. I believe that just like Jesus was conceived of It seems to me the Antichrist and he's probably going to come or already has. Right. And that's interesting if the Antichrist will be a that would make him a Nephilim. He would he would He would be a hybrid He might look like That would be a would And maybe that explains. Yeah. Why? Paul said that he'll be able to all kinds of deceiving things. Right. Antichrist is called the of perdition. And if that's the case, then, going to have his being be Redeemer coming, he And Jesus was the offspring of woman that came. And I think that Satan And, you know, I used to think tribe or whatever, but I've He has to come from the tribe going to get scriptural, that's in a Jewish woman and Satan. This is what it's So I might be sounding I think he's you think he's going to come from Uh huh. Very interesting. Thank you for saying that. Well, anyway, I thought before that he came from another tribe. There was another tribe. I thought he probably And that was the tribe of Dan. And because of Dan was the one tribes later on But if you remember, when the Jerusalem, they came. And so the scribes suddenly to find out where he's going to where to go. And they said, well, this this the tribe of Judah. So that's why I think even if what the first thing And I think Satan knows understand that. So that's just my And we'll get to heaven. And people can point at me That's quite all right with me. But just a thought I had. And because your book was points like that. So. Well, thank you very much. That's, you know, we're talking In the days before the flood. It was a bizarre time. It was it was really, And Jesus said to Matthew 2437, so it will be in Days of the coming So whatever happened then is means, pastor Bob, between means nutty has only begun. We're going to see some really the end. And you know, as I said the day of trans transgression. It's amazing. People violating so many in laboratories around the doing things that ethically mingle all kinds of And we're living in a day of And people are alarmed. People are really alarmed. I was just in the United In 36 days, pastor Bob, That's a lot. But in every place I went, what's going on in society. Where is this thing headed? And you know what? It's going to go somewhere says it's going to get dark, dark, dark at the But God, God has a remnant, That's right. And our job is to reach out to by verse, preach the gospel, that are confused. And by the way, pastor Bob, may mention it. Yeah. People, people kind I know we're not just trying to a better way of life. People are going to hell. Hell is a reality. It didn't go away just because I was at a church in. Go ahead. Our loved ones, our friends, You know, that's the new phrase. When we were kids, everybody Now everybody says such. And such past. Nobody wants to confront death. We don't just pass. We die and we go somewhere. One of two places is a reality. Yes. Yes, sir. What were you going to say? I was going to say I was at pastor's son, very Anyway, was talking about the head of the Satanist Florida that he goes to. And he says he just confronted about the Lord. And this guy laughed at him, heaven and believing in And he said, I serve Satan. He's the true ruler. I mean, they they. And he said, I just stayed coffee with him. He said, I just decided And anyway, he said the guy had attack and died. He died in the ambulance on the revived him. By the time he got to the about it and they called me and I came to meet him They said when he rolled him I went to hell. I saw it. Tell me about Jesus. He's talked about how he see it and one vision of hell. And he wanted to receive And he said, I led him Talk about, you know, they Even sinners don't understand Christians don't understand. No. No. That's why that's why when in somebody's family dies, People usually say, well, I has mercy. Nobody wants to believe But people go to hell. Yeah. And I think that we need we will never have That's right. We have to understand there is how we live and what Well, it comes Yeah, they come back to nice guy and I'm good. My whole point is you can Why did Jesus have Shed his blood. Give his life if your It doesn't happen that way. Yeah. I like it when two Tulsa Two ends of town, east and west. Got together right here. Yeah. So good to be It is. It's great to be with you, too. So. Hallelujah. Glad for you. Glad for your ministry. And glad for your a teacher, Pastors or teachers. The Bible even says so in Ephesians that Not just, you know, which inspiration is wonderful. But thank God you're a Well, thank you that when I got were my you were You were. You can do it. You just were so precious to me. And you still are Yeah. Well, not only can you do. It, Loretta. Not only can you do Well. Thank you. Yeah, you've got a Thanks for being with us. Here today. Thanks for sharing your heart. Anything else you want to add? Just want to say I love Let's. Let's pray for people. Father. In Jesus name. Since we're talking about Lord, we pray for people. And Lord, help us to wake up to the reality that Lord, people need to be saved. They don't just need to be made And father, help us to do our change culture. Not just by voting, But help us to remember that that really brings change. In Jesus name. Let me remind all of you Not only is God ask you and given you help. You shall receive power after you to be my witnesses. I want you to Quit trying to figure out what get out there and Depend on the Holy Spirit. Witnessing is supernatural. Pray in the spirit. Talk to God through the And get that fellowship, that accuracy with the Word of God. And you'll think of things you two people are the same, and you're going to face. So I just telling you, depend you do on witnessing programs Just get out there and put the find out he wants to empower It works worldwide. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Rick. Tell Denise hi. Alright. And Loretta. Okay. Thank you. You can order resources. Become a partner, or browse You can also join our mailing devotions and the Visit bobyandian.com. To contact us by mail, use