(ambient music) - [Stefan] In 2015, with indigenous tribes They were trying to use genetics to understand when and how modern humans entered the Americas when they made a really (playful music) - And we found this different ancestry, - [Stefan] Part of the ancestry was more closely related Papuans, Andamanese Islanders. - Very surprised. I was very surprised. I didn't imagine something like that. - They called this ancestry Population Y after Ypykuera, which means ancestor in that these people spoke. How could it be that people had this ancestral relationship to people on the other side of the world? Where did that ancestry come from? I got to speak to two geneticists Tabita Hunemeier and Marcos Today, we're gonna discuss about Population Y. Why it hasn't been found in North America. Where did this ancestry come from? Just don't expect any easy answers. This is not the kind of to a nice, neat conclusion. This is definitely still - I'm happy if you understand something because we are really - Well, it's complicated. It's complicated. Yeah. (playful music) - This video is sponsored by MyHeritage. One of the reasons I love is I just wanna figure out my place in this enormous tapestry of humanity. This is where MyHeritage comes in. You can send in a sample of your DNA so you can participate in these big population genetic studies. It's interesting that Tipperary because as I would learn, my he was from Tipperary and I didn't know that before This is where MyHeritage really excels. It helps you understand your past in a much more intimate and human way. Check out this church. This is the church that my got married in in 1867. This is his real signature, who wasn't my great-grandma, and his father, Joseph, my whose occupation is listed as cork maker. If you've got a hole in a bottle, just give my He'll put you right. I found all of this through MyHeritage. It's home to 19 billion historical records from all over the world. I literally love searching these for clues to my family's origins. MyHeritage also searches these records too to make discoveries. All you need to know is your and it can start piecing together Let me just add Big Joe Look at that. Great-great-grandfather. I'm literally here just going doing the family tree, fire on the TV. I found two generations beyond I'm deep in the 18th century now. That's kind of crazy. It's kind of exciting. It just adds such a warm personal depth to the study of history, I think you'll love it. I just think you'll absolutely love it. If all of this interests you, you can sign up for a free link in the description. But if you do find it enjoyable, then you'll get 50% off It's a win-win, win-win-win. Go check it out. Go see if you descend from Big shout out to MyHeritage. Back to Population Y. When humans arrived in America is one of the most debated 25,000 years ago, a huge ice sheet covered This ice lowered the sea level so much that America was attached to Asia in a now sunken landmass called Beringia. It was a cold time, the There was mammoths and stuff. Cold, cold, cold, cold. Even though America was connected to Asia, this ice certainly It didn't melt enough for until around 13,800 years ago. For a long time, that humans didn't enter America until this gap in the ice formed. However, now we know before this point. So the current thinking is that from Beringia and hugged the coastline. Problem is when all that ice so if we're right, the are almost certainly underwater, deep under the North Pacific 35 miles out to sea. (upbeat music) That's how much the sea Most archeologists would be happy with saying humans arrived in the Americas around 16,000 years ago. This year I went to a really cool archeological site in Idaho Check it out for sure. However, there are some sites which could be much, much older. (dramatic music) There are footprints in which seemingly date to Some archeologists argue that the site of dates to around 30,000 years ago. Other archeologists in Brazil argue some sites date back and don't even get me started The further you go back in time, the more archeologists disagree. but what we can say is of humans waiting until it doesn't fit with what we now know. We now know it's much more complicated. from a genetics standpoint there was also a Groups of North and East They were kind of isolated here from between four to 10,000 years and left it as Native Americans. The genetic dating of also lines up well with the more recent, more widely accepted archeological sites. - What we usually agree - Between 15 and 18, okay. But just like our has gotten more complex, it's fair to say that the complicates this simple genetic model too. - We have to start to think and the people of Asia and the Beringia Standstill that took thousands of years and is much more complex - All right, what can we say with some confidence about Population Y? I don't wanna say for sure because this is an area but what can we say with some confidence, a little bit of confidence? First thing we have to mention No skeletons. No skeletons. That's a really important detail. We have no remains from this This is what geneticists We see this contribution of ancestry, but we have no remains from Population Y. That's a big limiting factor in how much information we have. Until we find those remains, as kind of a hypothetical population. It's a model that geneticists how two groups of people are related. If we find more ancient remains closely related to Population Y, then our understanding Second thing we can say for sure is that the signal is real. It really was detected. Since 2015, geneticists into this population Y, confirmed that ancestral connection. You can see it here in this last study on Population Y. They also found coastal like the Chotuna, the Kichwa. Groups like that that they found it in more Amazonian groups. This ancestral connection is real and there are many Native who have this Y ancestry. - And we found some population showing that the signal than we thought before since and now we had detected and in other populations from Brazil, from Southern Brazil and - Third thing super important to say is that these people are Native Americans. They're most closely related This Population Y ancestry forms about one to 3% of their genome. Don't think of these people as Australians in the middle of the Amazon. They're Native Americans and to other Native Americans. Fourth thing we can say is that Pop Y ancestry is old. It's very old. This wasn't a recent And we know that for sure because of this archeological site here. This is a Lapa do Santo in Lagoa Santa region of Brazil. Between sort of 12,000 and this region was home to a group of people who were living classic They ate deer and fish and armadillo. They carved images into Very dramatic-looking cave there. Look at that incredible stuff. Here's kind of a little that these people made. Some sort of human figure, Interesting stuff, interesting stuff. And they engaged in really Here you can see a burial. The skull is decapitated, the Pretty grizzly stuff. Not going to lie, it seems like they were Here you can see another for other bones. Sometimes it went down What can you do? There had long been a because some anthropologists resemble the skulls of groups like that more than So obviously, when geneticists these burials were a - When we were able to sequence these Lagoa Santa specimens, they were not related They are a hundred percent and one of them was about 2% of Australasian ancestry. So 2% 10,000 years ago and 2% nowadays. It's odd, the distributions of the genome. - This almost reminds me about the initial look at the skeleton. People thought, &quot;Oh, it's Genetics confirmed Same with the people at Lagoa These people don't look or not like modern Native Americans, but tests confirmed they're It just gets to show you on just the appearance of bones, right? People's appearances can change over the course of thousands but they did also find that Y ancestry in these 10,000 year old specimens, 10KYA. This Y ancestry was The final thing we can say for sure about Population is that it hasn't been found in the north, hasn't been found in northern And that's really interesting. I really wanted to ask Marcos and Tabita why they think that is the case. (ambient music) One possibility is that did have this ancestry, but it has been obscured - The lack of evidence could be due to the population collapse and the contact era. Because as 90% of the maybe it was there and we just - Yeah, if only some of the and you exterminate most of them, you could have basically erased the presence of this ancestry because you don't have the They don't exist anymore. - Another explanation could many samples, genetic in the north of America. We just don't have many samples. Now, this is a topic full of nuance. Definitely not one that I'm an expert in. There are 574 recognized 634 First Nations in Canada. So there definitely isn't one explanation behind this lack of samples. But my understanding is for it's not that they are anti-science, but there is not a lot of and in academic institutions. They don't feel respected There are still well over a held by American institutions taken, stolen from descendant communities without their input or consent. These museums and universities to return them, and yet Hundreds of thousands of remains still sitting in boxes in So considering that, why Why help these places with If they do participate in that they want to maintain over these genetic samples. There's a case where a agreed to participate in a diabetes study to help the health of their population. Diabetes study never took place to participate in population genetics. So not a lot of trust. Not a lot of trust. Hopefully, as I said, these Many Native Americans and tribes do participate in genetic studies. There are organizations like who are working hard to So in the future, who knows, but as it stands right now, there's just not loads of samples. Finally, people with Y ancestry could have just left little in the twists and turns of history. (ambient music) As I said at the start, the current hypothesis for is that these ancestral Native Americans traveled down the coast Maybe it's possible that the just continued on the coast, continued down into South America and left a small impact in North America, or maybe no impact in North or that contribution has been obscured by later population movements in the following 16, 17, 18, 20,000 years. There is some evidence in South America. People on the Pacific Coast seemingly do have a higher percentage of this Population Y ancestry. - What we see is that the Pacific Coast have a higher, a slightly of this Australasian-like ancestry. And this indicates that was introduced in these Native Americans before the Pacific Coast populations in the Amazonian word - So yeah, maybe this skipped North America. It's possible. It's a possible explanation. Who knows what the future will hold if there are more samples Now that we have things like getting DNA from the plaque of teeth that doesn't destroy ancient remains, less invasive ways of getting human DNA, maybe we will find this Population But what can we say about where this contribution came from, what was going on in Asia? (ambient music) The Asian population alive today that is the closest relative of this small percentage are the Onge. They live on little Andaman Island, a very isolated region Contact with the British, and has really threatened their society. They once occupied the entire that there's just about and they live on a reservation on a small percentage of the It's a sad state of affairs. There's no two ways around it. It is sad. It's important to say that doesn't descend directly from the Onge. No one from Andaman Island set sail and went all the way to Beringia - Because probably it's the Onge population, but some that share some ancestor with that enter in Beringia and there there is some kind of structure or something like that when migrate southwards, spread this ancestry in South America. (wistful music) - Homo sapiens left and 100,000 years ago. This was probably a process that took thousands so it's difficult to come but that's the range that we're Imagine just the vastness of Asia and these small groups of hunter gatherers just slowly living their lives, making their way across the land. Some headed south and their and Andaman Islands and Papua Some headed north into and eventually, of course, America. When we draw maps like this, it all looks so neat and tidy, doesn't it? One line goes this way, They separate and never But that, of course, is not the reality. Groups continue to mix, continue to stay in sleep with their neighbors. You know, who doesn't do that? Me, me, I don't do that. It's not these neat lines left and right. Groups continue to have sometimes for thousands One of these groups of these was probably Population Y. They contributed ancestry to They contributed ancestry who would eventually get to Beringia and become Native Americans. Absolutely everyone alive today is a mix of different people. Whether that migration or contact happened thousands of years ago or everyone is a mix of Let me show you a great example of what I'm talking about here. (playful music) This is Hoa Binh, a mountainous province home to the most incredible landscape, 40 different ethnic groups, and the occasional water It also lends its name to called the Hoabinhian. I think the exact timing of is still up for debate, but between 17 and 4,000 Some put this culture way 40,000 years ago. Geneticists were able to get samples from two burials associated - These Hoabinhian individuals, they are most closely Among all south, present they're mostly closely related to Onge. - Despite the fact that they and China in that region, again, their closest Further north, the Jomon culture of Japan, creators of some of the you ever did see. Shout out to the Dogu. Look at these chaps or Genetic studies of the Jomon show that they're also They're also this mix of Southern Asian and East Asian ancestry. - And they also find in this paper that individuals from the might also be explained East Asian ancestry and or hunter gatherer from - So in modern times, the and other Australasian are very far South, But deep in prehistory in ancient times from China to Vietnam to Japan, different people had ancestry They were much more in our modern time. Any one of these hunter-gatherer groups could have contributed who would eventually get to Beringia, who would eventually get to America. Any one of them could have done it. By the time you're in Japan, you're getting pretty close to Beringia. And if you saw my video about the archeological site in Idaho, there's interesting similarities between the material culture of Japan and the material culture of America in this sort of There's probably a lot of connections between all these different regions. You don't need an Onge person to travel all the way to Beringia to explain this Population Y ancestry. According to Tabita and Marcos, this is the simplest explanation for Population Y ancestry - No, it's the main idea that they arrived in America admixed. - This, it's just another and other relationship that was much more common in prehistory, much more widespread, even though we might think as very distant now. However, however, as I said at the start, Population Y is still unsampled. We don't have a genetic just from its two descendants. And because of that, we to a couple more (ambient music) As I mentioned at the start, many archeologists and many geneticists are mostly in agreement. The modern humans reached the Americas between 15 and 18,000 years ago. A lot of people will except for the fact that we that are older. Looking at you, White Sands, Is it possible that Population Y were the people behind these that they were already in America when these other groups Is that possible? - What I would say again is but the evidence doesn't - Yes, it is possible. With the limited evidence that it's possible. As Marcos said though, is the evidence going in It is not. The 10,000 year old remains already had such a small percentage of Population Y ancestry. It just doesn't seem like this. Population Y was the founding It's hard to imagine a scenario where this group was widespread across two continents from the Andes to the Amazon to Patagonia, huge varied landscape, and yet every single trace No bones, nothing. Not any sizable contribution of ancestry to groups that came later. It's just so hard to believe. In all the different throughout history, we still and Papua New Guineans, evidence of Hoabinhians and So why would every trace of these people be lost in the Americas? Not even in the deepest or the remotest corner of Patagonia did any of these people survive. It just seems unlikely, about how widespread this ancestry was in Asia in pre-history. It's much more likely that the arrived in America with this That it was just one of the groups, one of these small hunter just creating this tapestry of humanity. But our evidence can change. Our evidence can change. Now, there is one more you archeology nerds are gonna love. I can see into your soul because I am you. You're gonna love this. You're gonna love this last hypothesis. So we know that this unsampled contributed ancestry to the Onge. It contributed ancestry to That's what we know, but it is unsampled. We don't have any remains The distribution of this it sort of reminds you of somebody. It sort of reminds you of these people, Neanderthals, Denisovans. It sort of resembles that - One thing that we didn't touch, and I think it's important, but it's more complicated than all things that with discuss here is that this Y ancestry or Denisova or something like that. - It sounds crazy to might be a currently unknown of ancient humans. But you have to remember, we had no idea that Neanderthals as they left Africa, but they did. And even going back further we know that they were into We had no idea that Denisovans existed until we tested their genetic remains. And once we had done that, we could see, &quot;Oh yes, look, they also to modern humans, particularly Asia, Papua New Guinea, Population Y could be similar situation. We have this clue that these two groups share but who contributed that DNA is not known. And when and if we find it could be that they were living in Asia, something like that. I mean, the more we learn the more complex it gets. They are always finding interesting things. Human evolution in Asia is Humans of one form or another were living there for 2 million years. It's such a big continent, That evolution just got And it's totally possible was an archaic human. And now our first clue to of affinity between the Onge Could be, could very well be. It's just so hard to say. We just have to find a Until then, we won't know. That's the piece of the - It's difficult to discuss Yes, makes sense. But we don't have enough (contemplative nice jingly music) - I've come for a walk in the woods to process all that information. It's chilly. It's chilly today. I suppose the big takeaway is that just as the archeological record has gotten more complicated, the genetic story of the has gotten so much more complicated too modern Native Americans and their ancestors, your ancestors if you're Native American watching this, I hope you find it interesting. We're not one homogenous group either. Their ancestry reflects of human dispersal, not but across Asia too, connecting far-flung regions to Vietnam, to Japan, to and potentially even to long archaic humans. It's crazy, man. Humanity is a rich tapestry. I love learning about ancient genetics. God, it's just the best. Thanks for watching. Thanks to Marcos, Tabita, and everyone who participated Shout out to all of you. (lighthearted music) Thank you so much for It's a major goal of mine this year to make a video about Population Y, and I couldn't have done it Shout out to them. I couldn't have done it without you guys watching and supporting the videos. And of course, none of it could be done without the participation of Native groups across South America. So in honor of that, I've of the MyHeritage just to try and share the in the best way I can. Thank you so much for watching. It's so interesting. Lot more great stuff to come.