In 1922, a twenty-three year old boy was standing in front of He wanted to work But due to his appearance, the hotel guard didn't even allow him to enter. At that time, nobody not only becoming the owner but building one of the most This is the story of The Oberoi Hotels. In the year 1898, in the was born Mohan Singh Oberoi. He was just six months old when In spite of that, Mohan's mother At the age of sixteen, he went and joined DAV college. And there, two important things First, he learned to communicate he got a part-time job in a shoe factory. With time, he developed of design and production process. First, he became a supervisor and then rose to a full-time Rising from poverty, Mohan felt But then, the story takes a twist. Protests started in entire India implemented by the Britishers, which negatively impacted many businesses. After struggling for a few years, the and Mohan became unemployed overnight. Coincidentally, during these times, and was the father of a newborn girl. Hence, Mohan was desperately At that time, he decided which was to transform his whole life. And that city was Shimla. Shimla used to be the capital of due to which, high-ranking officials Hence, it was a perfect city But unfortunately, Mohan got rejected in He was walking in disappointment when he found himself He had arrived at the Cecil hotel, He saw the high-profile guests after which he was determined till he got a job in Cecil. He took a deep breath and but the guard of Cecil ddn't let him But Mohan was not He waited outside the hotel As soon as the manager came out, and said, &quot;I am looking for a job, sir. The manger was deeply The very next day, he as a clerk with fifty rupees Mohan's main responsibility in Cecil was to manage coal supply and stock. Soon, an idea occured to him that by using coal dust balls. Not only these balls are cheap, but whole night due to their And water can be heated just by adding some normal coal. He implemented this idea and Besides this, Mohan also knew Soon, he started assisting the manager Seeing all this, the manager and increased his salary too. In Cecil hotel, usually only Mohan used to observe the behaviour Along with this, he had taken such as the responsibility of a cashier. This gave him a chance to Due to all this, by 1925, an expert in dealing with the VIP guests, but he had also developed of all the operations of a hotel. Meanwhile, Cecil's manager He bought Carlton Hotel in Shimla itself, having fifty rooms. Since the manager's name was Clarks, he renamed the hotel as Clarks Hotel. He knew that Mohan had developed of the hotel industry. Hence he offered Mohan but not as a clerk, but as a partner. Mohan was now to receive a small portion of Clarks Hotel's profits. On becoming the partner, of the hotel had fallen on Mohan. As soon as this happened, he He immediately renovated the hotel, attracting young government employees. He personally connected with the British and offering personalised services. Finally, his wife Ishran Devi ensured that he personally brings all the so that there's no compromise in Due to all this, the occupancy reaching upto eighty percent. Then, something happened to get snatched out of his hands in a go. Clarks' wife fell seriously ill and Clarks decided to return to England after selling the hotel Mohan was very disappointed. The future of the hotel was uncertain And he didn't have money Seeing the situation, Ishran Devi but they still couldn't collect To arrange the remaining amount, Mohan from a moneylender in his village. The risk was very high, but he was by earning profits. At the age of thirty-four, the owner of Clarks Hotel. But along with this, So Mohan and Ishran Devi and reinvested all the by living very frugally personally. Ultimately, within two years itself by running the hotel successfully. One of the main causes of Mohan's He had acquired a strong command due to which, he was not only but was also able to deal successfully And today, the importance has increased even more. That's why I use Duolingo App which is totally free. Let me show you. Now, in this exercise, I have to This is my office. Is this your office, Neha? Is this your office, Neha? So you saw how simple it is, right? I took an intermediate English course to brush-up my English through this app and I saw a lot of imrovement What I liked best about this app is that it makes the whole learning If you also need to go abroad, or simply want to feel more then this app is for you. The app's link is in description So download it quickly. But now, Mohan didn't want to be in his life. Now, he wanted to build a whole During this, he came to know that a hotel and this hotel was The Grand Hotel. With five hundred rooms, and most prestigious hotel not only This was one of Calcutta's with a hydraulic lift and had hosted royal families, for many years. But recently, due to contaminated water, there had been a typhoid outbreak here that claimed the lives of six people. After this incident, the hotel's That's why in 1937, this hotel and its owners wanted to give it on lease. Now, Mohan had two options Either keep running his small or try his luck by taking a hotel on lease that is ten-times bigger Mohan chose the second option at the rate of But when he inspected he started to doubt his decision. Every wall inside the building was The paint had peeled off and The hotel needed a magical So Mohan took a loan once again and executed a massive in which the hotel's each and Interiors such as tuppers trees, and chandeliers were restored. Finally, he personally reached-out housekeeping staff and porters et cetera and made them join the hotel again because these were the people But one thing was still to be restored, which was the hotel's reputation which was damaged due to typhoid outbreak. Mohan decided to totally He removed each and every pipe and and installed a new, Also, he established a new practice in which he himself inspected the early in the morning, such as Eventually, a word spread among people that not only Grand Hotel is offering but it also is hundred percent safe. And thus, the occupancy in Grand Hotel But as the situation another setback presented itself, With the beginning of the war, for thousands of soldiers of the army. And British needed a lot of space So, in addition to many other buildings, to take Grand Hotel in their Had Mohan lost this hotel after he could have become bankrupt So, he took courage and that if army managed the accomodation the army would have to spend But Mohan could manage everything which could save the army a lot of money. Luckily, the general finalized the deal. But now Mohan had to anyhow while charging a very low price. Mohan used his brain and safely all the luxurious interiors of the hotel and replaced them with He even replaced In addition to this, all the and replaced with basic services. In order to maximize the occupancy, Even corridors and courtyards Ultimately, Grand Hotel with started accomodating 4000 soldiers. Which meant, a revenue of Going by all these strategies, by earned crores of rupees. And now, Grand Hotel had opened After the grand success of Grand Hotel, Mohan had a new goal Entire India. He wanted to own a hotel chain in India. So, he determined himself on acquiring AHI owned eight most including Cecil Hotel of Shimla. The management of AHI and many of their hotels were in loss. Mohan started buying the from time to time using his profits and eventually, he Mohan had now become owner of the eight most luxurious hotels The same Cecil Hotel, There was only one aim in Mohan's mind. To make his ten hotels even better than And to achieve this, he had In 1952, he planned a world tour, in which his aim was to go to world's In this tour, he stayed in top hotels like Dorchester Hotel of London, and Hilton Hotel of Puerto Rico. He used to carry a notebook and and took detailed notes on each After studying twenty-five hotels he had collected notes On returing to India, he made such as kitchen layout, room design, and room service of his hotels and achieved In 1955, Mohan observed that there are many such where kings and emperors once resided, but nobody resides there today. He saw a great opportunity here. So, he decided to take by negotiating with the royal families. First of all, he converted the which belonged to the And thus, India got its Looking at his continued success, by 1970, the Oberoi Group started to feel that they have become undisputed But then, a group enters the story that emerged as the biggest And this group was the Taj Hotel Group. Till 1971, Taj had only one hotel, their Taj Palace Hotel in Mumbai. But then, they opened their first hotel They converted Lake Palace Then, they started In 1976, they entered Delhi In this way, by 1980s, Taj Group in almost every prominent city of India. Oberoi knew that if they have to they will have to open where Taj had its flagship hotel which means India's In 1970s, Mohan decided that he at Nariman Point in Mumbai. This hotel was to have five hundred it was to be one of the tallest The total budget of the but with time, the cost of the Oberoi Group had taken and there came a time when the had reached upto one lakh twenty thousand. Due to such a huge financial pressure, the finances of entire Oberoi Group and it seemed that the construction But then, at the age of camped in Mumbai for six months and ensured that the hotel The hotel got operational in 1973 and things started to get But then, Oberoi sustained another blow. Indira Gandhi announced which caused an economic and there was a drop in This impacted hotel industry the most. The debt of Oberoi Group that they faced a pressure to even But Mohan did not let that happen. During this time, he noticed that due to which many high networth who used to visit Lebanon began to come to Mumbai instead. Mohan recognized this opportunity and prepared a master plan. He made two hundred of by giving them a crash course so that they could communicate He printed hotel documents menu cards et cetera into Arabic scripts. He modified the whole food menu Due to these strategies, Oberoi Hotel for the Arab guests and in a few years Oberoi but also generated With this success, Oberoi Group as India's most prominent and Mohan Singh Oberoi with the biggest challege of his life. He said that we should that is second-best. And with the same philosophy, Today, with its thirty-two luxury hotels, Oberoi is not only one of India's And the most important thing is that behind building this business is a man who himself used If you liked this video then I