Over the last hundred years or so, scientists into some extreme conditions, for example very high speeds and the under the frigid While each of us have developed an intuition to remember that this intuition only applies For instance, there's absolutely no reason the center of the sun as it does here on Earth However, that last statement is hard for some inbox, the extreme realm that causes people are going super-fast. In 1905, Albert Einstein published his theory It predicts all sorts of mind-blowing things, down. I made another video about how clocks act It turns out that all of those seemingly crazy or maybe two if we take it slow. So, first, let me tell you what this video It doesn't tell you about the postulates and it certainly doesn't derive his equations. Instead, this video tries to tell you the a relativistic intuition. I hope to teach you why it is impossible to If you're not a physics groupie, hearing might surprise you, but it's true. And, if you are a groupie, you've probably faster than light is due to the fact that It turns out that the explanation of mass I know that statement is going to confuse understandings of relativity, but it's true. However, that then leaves an open question. Just why is it that you can't go faster It turns out to be due to a combination of and fairly simple geometry. So, let me explain how that all works. The first of the two crucial insights is that not separate entities, but rather they are I'll give you a helpful visual way to think trust me on this. Then we need to combine that insight with of light to be the same, no matter how fast Let's start with an analogy and then come To understand the analogy, you need to imagine Further, you need to imagine that the car hour. Or, so the comments don't fill up with metric-snobbery Now let's put a couple arrows on the screen While we know the overall speed the car is the east direction and how much of it is in So let's take a closer look at that. The car can move entirely in the eastward in the northward direction. Or, the car can move entirely northward and Or we can live dangerously and move towards In this case, we see that the car is moving neither direction getting all of the motion. So that's the core analogy and hopefully Now, let's bring in relativity. In relativity, we don't have the east and Instead, we have spacetime. Let's imagine that the horizontal direction So suppose that there is a single and fixed This happens to be true, so it's not a ridiculous We can therefore mix these ideas with our An object can move vertically. In that case, they are not moving through time. That's probably what you're doing right You're sitting and watching this video, However, you are experiencing time. You aren't moving through space, but you're On the other hand, what happens as you start That's a fancy way to say that you gain Well we see here that what starts to happen you move less through time. And eventually, when you move only through And this is basically what relativity says. As you move faster and faster, your clocks And, as you get very close to the speed of We've scientifically proven that this is on time dilation so you can see one way that So, this brings us to our fundamental realization The reason that we can't move through space we are constantly moving through spacetime If we aren't moving through space, we experience through space, we experience time slower and Finally, since we're moving through spacetime moving only through space, there is no more We move through space at the speed of light This observation wasn't made by Einstein. It was made by his mentor, Herman Minkowski. Minkowski was one of Einstein's mentors Two years after Einstein's seminal 1905 underpinnings of special relativity and had why we can't travel faster than light through There are two final important points. First, while Minkowski showed why light speed didn't explain was why we move only at one To this day, nobody really knows. It seems to be a fundamental property of spacetime. Maybe it will take another person as smart conundrum. The second point is more technical and I mention In my analogy, I connected space and time is a lot of merit in that. Morphing from motion through time to motion moving north to moving east. However, this analogy is also technically From a mathematical point of view, it uses geometry is that of hyperbolas. I only bring this up because I want you to push it too far. Otherwise you might come to a numerically made a new discovery. If you want to dig into this more deeply, mathematics. Still, even with the limitations I've mentioned, The reason that you can't move faster through every object moves through spacetime at one Once you've embraced that central idea and two directions of spacetime, then all of those just click into place and special relativity So I don't know about you, but I think this coolest thing ever. If you liked this video, be sure to like, up. And let me know what you think in the comments. I'll see you next time, and keep on physics-ing.