The Moon may seem like a barren, uninteresting and you'll find many interesting puzzles solved. The LRO, or the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, since 2009, taking super high-resolution shots us a view of the entire moon like never before. In the last episode of this series we looked will look at some of the most interesting I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching of the moon, and give you a view and understanding never had before. Because of the many surveying missions to been mapped out, and you can view all the which I will post a link to in the description Zooming out as far as we can go, on the far impact craters in the solar system, the Aitken where the Chang'e 4 Chinese mission landed The LRO was even able to image the rover from But without the rover as a size guide, what lunar surface is the complete inability to you are looking at. This is due to the lack of an atmosphere, on Earth, and things we are used to like trees I will always try and include some visuals video. As you can see, the surface of the moon is It doesn't matter where you are on the moon, This implies that the surface is old and hasn't anytime recently, the most recent eruption ago. There are an estimated 300,000 impact craters us, and millions more smaller than that, like The moon can have such small craters because heading for the moon will hit its surface. On Earth, most meteors burn up in the atmosphere. Just imagine how many shooting stars there atmosphere, every one of them would impact What's interesting about each crater you how old a crater is by how eroded it is. Craters which appear very smooth are much them, with sharp and defined edges. The bright patches haven't had so long to But weathering on the moon? How can that be? Well, this weathering is not caused by water and intense radiation from the Sun which dull If we speed along to the end of this image, a few hundred meters across. Using LRO's narrow angle camera, we can an impact on the lunar surface. These linear patterns are the effects of the Finer dust would have been blown across the quite making it as far, although leaving a impact. The crater itself isn't super clear in this was taken, the Sun close to the horizon casting you can still see fresh exposed material along Comparing this to an old crater, here you crater, although still brighter than the heavily What I like about this image though is that from another impact off the image. Here's a boulder that landed on the crater The only thing with these top down perspectives depth in the image. How shallow or deep can craters get? Luckily the LRO doesn't just scan the surface, too, which can definitely help us appreciate Look at this fantastic image. This crater is around 21km across, and it Again, we can see the trails left by huge bright walls implying it is a young crater, The contrasts are really quite vivid, and been liquid at some point. The impact would have initially melted the collecting in pools which have since solidified. The impactor was likely 2km in diameter, and of a bullet. That would have been some collision indeed! Another great image I have to show you is What's special about this one is its interestingly This is another example of rock melting from beyond the rim and flowing down, before solidifying If we look closely around the crater, you disturbing the ground and leaving brighter See? Once you know what you are looking at, even But these have been very pristine craters. What if a meteor lands somewhere a little Here is a crater within a crater. The impactor hit the wall of the larger crater, from a top down perspective, it still looks Just as a side note, this image is a true Most other images of the moon are taken in prefer resolution over colour, although the of colour, and this is an example of it. But certain craters can be unconventional There's a little understood phenomena on to explain, and that is cold patches found So far, we have really only focused on the host of other instruments onboard, including has mapped the Moon's surface temperatures. There are two thousand points on the moon when the Sun goes down. When the Sun rises on the spots again, they in with the background. The only thing these spots seem to have in They are always found around young craters But the spots themselves are much larger than Here's a heat map of the crater I was just White is the hottest parts of the image, blue As you can see, a large cool region surrounds There is an ongoing investigation to find What do you think it could be? There really were so many more images I could them for next time. I just wanted to leave you with one final This crater, found near the South Pole of The Sun never rises high above the horizon stick out enough to be enveloped in light. What you are left with is a stunning contrast, This is certainly my new desktop background But this region isn't just an eerily beautiful for the future Artemis mission to the moon. The lunar South Pole is of particular importance to be millions of tonnes of water ice found this, forever protected from the Sun's rays. If there is to be a future colony on the Moon, So, there you have it! A sample of some of the most interesting craters Enjoyed learning about our Moon today? As you can see, learning about science - or be dull, as long as it's done in a thought-provoking That's why I'm a big fan of Brilliant. They have ton of interactive and engaging who want to excel at problem solving and understanding the world. They have courses that will ease you into scenarios to help to conceptualise and realise So give it a go! You can sign up for free today, and by using 20% off their annual Premium subscription interactive math, science and computer science Thanks for watching! If you liked this video, be sure to check and Earth! And a big thank you to my Patreons and Members If you would like to support Astrum in making All the best and see you next time.