(Commentator speaking Farsi) (intense orchestral music) It's April, 1951. The World Wrestling Championships are being held in Helsinki, Finland. And this is a year that one of won Iran's first international medal, the silver in wrestling. His name was Gholamreza Takhti, and he was just getting started. One year later, he went to the where he finally Takhti's career in wrestling winning metal after metal. This guy was a national icon, one of the most beloved I mean, they made a But he was loved, not just but also because of He was honorable and fair He once found out an opponent so he intentionally avoided it When he beat the reigning he noticed his opponent's so he pulled her aside And when an earthquake Takhti walked the streets especially other to provide help He was in many ways a But why does all of A few months ago, I was in And I first learned when I visited his grave His unexpected and caused a stir in the nation, and thousands showed up It was clear that the was different from the others. It looked like a tomb for a king, or a Shah, as they're And back in the sixties, Iran was ruled by the Shah. But unlike Takhti, the shah and his regime was not as beloved or Across a backdrop of economic strife, and people had very little They lived in fear and distress, but they couldn't complain arrested, or even killed by The contrast between a leader couldn't be clearer. While we were at Takhti's grave, told me story after story of the hardships and of living under the Shah. But it's what he said at that stood out to me the most. Living under the Shah was terrible, but life today under is a hundred times worse. My name is Steven Morales. I'm part of the team with us in a series we call I want to take you on a of one of the oldest on the planet, tracing back thousands of years to understand the complexities of the nation and how that has led to cultural and religious challenges that make Iran such a that is bursting with opportunity The truth is, if you're a and watching this, you've through the limited lens of or Hollywood movies. It's possible that, like me, you've never actually or supporting indigenous that just seems But if God's heart is then we have to how did some of these become so hard to reach? And is it possible that to cities in Iran like just like he did This is &quot;Hard To Reach: Iran.&quot; (emotional string music) (soft marimba music) So, let's go back Iran is being ruled by Since the time of the Medes, yeah, like the ones you read Iran has been ruled by Shahs. And Pahlavi was the last of and he was allegedly trying to He came to power after World War II with promises of freedom for Iran like And while things seemed to Pahlavi was not the ruler His life was throwing lavish parties while his people starved through a national This was nothing new or even for the dynasties like the Qajar dynasty, which started all the Iran has had a long history and changing of powers. And in order to understand for us today we need to to before Iran was (intense music) That's right, Persia. It's not every day you can back to the Bible, but flip and you'll find a lot We hear about Persian rulers Ezra, and Ezekiel, but from this story. Oh no What we gonna do? The king likes Daniel Surely your God is above all men Now I understand For even at the bottom You were in his hands Daniel and the Lions all of this is happening the Achaemenid dynasty, the world has and it all happened The story literally ends saying, &quot;so this Daniel prospered and the reign of who's also known as Cyrus was the leader that in Isaiah 45 saying he would Cyrus was the founder of the that extended over the and into parts of India. His grandson, Xerxes, was also You might remember him &quot;Now, in the days of Ahasuerus, from India to Ethiopia, for all his officials The army of Persia and Media of the provinces were This is the beginning and it's also happening So 2,500 years ago, Persia that ruled over almost And it seemed like for a Persia was poised to And then history took a turn that no man could have foreseen. A group of tribes that had and at odds with each other united under one man and one creed, and began expanding into Iran. Arab forces made their unto Iranian soil right in 633 AD. At this point, had worn itself out while defending its and now found itself They pressed on and for almost two decades, would ultimately prove the And so Islam entered Iran. (folk vocal music) Now, we can't cover a whole but for the sake of this story there's some things Islam is an Arabic word that Muslim means one You may have heard &quot;There is no God, but God Their holy book is which should only be read There are two major Sunni and Shia. Across the world, Sunni's but the most well-known The split between happened in the first in the seventh century, was about who should be Today, there are a and practical differences but they do share Islam has a high considering him a prophet However, it denies as a son of God Muslims may be devout and but just like everyone else, they're in desperate I talk a little bit (energetic music) So back to the story, the changed the game in Iran, transforming its political but many Iranians today are still resisting Yeah, so I mean, Persian I mean we see it in the Bible too. When Islam actually and Islamic way slowly and slowly we adapt the culture, but when you go we are Persians. That's how Iranians We say we are Persians, It's not that, you no, but we have So Islam was not We had our own culture. Now, Iranians actually wanted So they're opposing to the because we think, okay, - This is my friend, Nima Alizadeh. Before he became a believer, he was also a star athlete but playing for the When he converted he was forced to leave of playing But the Lord took him on a different path, training Iranian church and translating a whole bunch He knows firsthand what under the heavy weight - When you go to school, for example, you have to learn Arabic to and then pray five times in Arabic. So still, you have no idea but you're just, you know, You have no idea what And then we say, okay, we had this in Farsi. Why can't we just Why can't we and have the freedom and worshiping, you know, that we want to, you know, - When your country is so and historically influential, for outsiders to only it's a bit insulting. While there are many Persians, in particular, have before anybody who spoke All of this is crucial to and even to understand with Christians today. Islam may be Iran's but it wasn't always It's not even what most (energetic accordion music) Quick break from the We're currently in Tehran, really close to the Grand and it's incredible, the kindness we have A lot of people and maybe don't have but really when you how much the media probably So I'm guessing the majority haven't been to on going to Iran And if that's the case, I just wanna let you in There's something just about the people of Iran. They're truth seekers. They're really not afraid even hard questions. But at the same time, they're Culturally, you just until you've experienced I mean, I was walking when a woman approached than seeing that invited me to sit drink tea, and I mean, I think every about hospitality from our It doesn't matter a place may seem to us, the image of God is everywhere, And it's why this (softer music) Alright, back to the story. It's December 1979, and after and public demonstrations, was overthrown and forced You see, Pahlavi was no He was after all a huge And if you watch in the sixties you'll notice it all that different in Europe and even the US. And while initially insatisfaction grew, who felt that that Western Not to mention that the left many wondering how he while the people were going hungry. All of this led to the The Shah was deposed the Islamic Republic's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Things were about to for the people of Iran, a new Islamic constitution of every citizen meaning no more Islam is the rule of law. And most of all a new name, Now, I want to talk about for believers in Iran. And I know that talking may not be be the but it is really relevant And so let me take one what it means to live As a republic and as Iran technically has a There's an elected a parliament of These officials represent all And there are even for leaders of traditionally There's a chief justice, Everything a typical But let's go back to Being an Islamic republic is subject to the former. Yes, Iran has the president, there is a supreme leader, which means a sign from God. And the Ayatollah can any president at any time. He sits at the top of which approves or removes He supervises the special that handles religious He appoints the chief the police and armed forces Iran is one of only three And when you get down it doesn't actually function But here's why this matters. For the last 40 years, in Iran have been - It's the Islamic Republic of Iran, so the main religion is Islam. So you cannot have any other So when you are born in Iran, You have to practice Islam, since that's your - Islam is not a choice. It's what you're And in people's minds, and the rule of Islam There is no separation And while that has elevated against Christians and it's also had one huge And I'll say it like came to power in a were looking for And they came on a that things would but that didn't happen. - For example, the promise in Iranian never And it causes that people for example, truths in You know, because before that, Iranian was so strong in Islam, but after they started they found out there - [Steven] They were disappointed by it. - Yes. - This is Ramtin Sudman. Ramtin is an Iranian pastor who recently had to flee his He's also the son of the who was officially killed after the Islamic So what happened after - The excitement caused of the First Republic of Islamic Sharia and the so quickly faded in the because, not only all despite the initial promise of the Iranian revolution, discrimination, corruption, but also all problem were in Iran's society And this caused unanswered - The Islamic regime on its promises to And the disillusionment people felt after wasn't but with Islam itself. And for people whose culture this led many on a search particularly in Christianity. It was in many ways the - Perhaps the corrupt had left a bitter but it never tired them of The positive evidence of the life of Armenian and during the years to Christianity among Iranians. (soft piano music) - There's this quote by CS He says, &quot;Every good chess player takes what is precisely the strong point in his opponent's plan of his own plan.&quot; He takes his opponent's best move and makes it work He makes unpredictable moves. This is kind of the that we see across the world God's enemies will do to crush the gospel, but and makes it work in his own life for Christians and that's a huge understatement. But we also need to acknowledge that life is not easy living under the There is a long list of urgent and yet God is doing something incredible and unpredictable Are you sure you want I got this question Like anyone who has traveled to places I got some looks when I told others where I was going, What was surprising, I heard when I arrived in Iran He asked, almost in disbelief, why are you here? If you're a Christian, the answer to that question will shape you look at money, the things you spend you look at the person It might take you to places you'd go to, Not all mosques but they're all fascinating and they're the center of religious life For devout Muslims, daily life They pray five And mosques are built Before they pray, they perform a ritual Then men and women separate behind the Imam, or the leader who stands on the Minbar, This all involves standing, all an act of submission to Allah. So when Muslims pray, Mecca, the city where it's believed And we see this in the architecture or a niche in the wall There's even a tower called a minaret Plus, you've probably also noticed and that's because it represents the vault building has representative elements So you won't see the same type that you'd see in a Catholic You know, I've been to a lot of mosques Many of them are huge, beautiful buildings As soon as I got to Iran, mosque of different But there were no tourists here. Just hundreds and even thousands There are places on this earth of spiritual warfare You can feel the enemy. And we realize the danger Just getting these shots required us And yet this is just a small taste There are no church buildings. There's no freedom to worship To follow So if you ask me why I went to Iran, of my brothers and sisters and what life Ultimately, I came to find the What does the church look In spite of travel in Iran is a growing economy, and it's In 2019, right before the pandemic, Iran was visited by 9.1 million tourists, about 2 million That makes Iran the fourth only behind Saudi Arabia, And there's a lot to see. For any Bible you can visit Esther and Mordechai's tombs or Persepolis stories of leaders and empires Or you could visit Tehran's Grand Bazaar, with everything, Or you could race down There is so much to see in Iran, one thing you can't escape Islam is everywhere. There are pictures of the Ayatollah Our hotel They had Qurans and prayer mats pointing you to Mecca. As we were exploring throughout the day at different mosques It all got me wondering. In a country how would anyone even Tell me a little bit How did you come to and just what was I was born in a This is Iman. He spent almost a decade as a refugee because of his faith. Unfortunately, Muslims do believe that the Jew and Christian It means that you because if you touch these people, But my father, in the way he taught us, he said: "No, you shouldn't I remember it was Yom Kippur, All the Jews are fasting That night I remember my very good friend Iman if we are and we are doing all of the in the Sharia and in the but we are not believing to the mashiach you are not even Jew. And then, it was in my mind, there was a church, And they said Jesus is the Christ And I heard that, all of my attention came, and was listening to them, They said, if you want a New Testament, And then I sent an email to them, Iman received a copy of the New Testament, Because of both his Muslim background he was already a little familiar but this New Testament gave him the true And after that I went to my friend, And I said, I heard that Jesus and He is the Messiah And my friend and he said many, I was shocked because I really trusted him. -- Your Jewish friend? One night I was And I kept reading I knew I was a sinner. I knew I have no way I knew that. You know? But then I was my heart was full of It was the first time if you are really the Please help me. The minute I prayed that and I finished, in the atmosphere in And I felt like the presence of God, and I heard the voice. It said, Iman, follow me, I want to change And I was just looking and I saw a light and He showed his hand to me, Follow me, I want to I started to cry. -- Government numbers will identify 99% of the population as Muslim. Not really surprising when everyone is automatically assigned But the reality is Some reports even but in the Islamic government that imposes Islam on its people And when that government continues and even oppress its own people, would be dissatisfied But what's most encouraging but rather Because even though many Iranians were it didn't mean -- In my country, Iran, when I grew up, all the things you can do belong So if you wanna play ping-pong We know the real football. Yes, the real football. Exactly. So you should go to mosque. So I was in the mosque almost every day doing the Islamic namaz and everything, so I always had questions. -- This is Milad. He left Iran years ago He told me about how he would often of his community, -- I always had questions. So once I asked one of them, what do these words mean in Quran? And that man told me, And I was like, He said, this is a secret So I was like, I'm hearing that this book is So why do we need to have some secrets and God in the book, which its role is to, you know, guide us in life -- Imagine seeking the truth What a disappointment. But in God's good grace, that just drives them And in that search, -- When I read the Quran in Farsi, a series of questions came to me because we always and I saw that it was written the only one who had the The only person who is going to and as I was reading, questions came to me and when I asked my father, he said only scholars do, and I was so scared because I knew if I would lose my Muslim identity, -- For security reasons, But her story is one of searching for answers. One day I came to little by little God showed me Something happened to me, I realized who came and died, but Islam says that Jesus is alive, Then the question for me was, if Jesus then why does God send a prophet who dies When I opened the Bible to read it at once which means savior, and it was there and I said, Jesus, I put -- Remember Nima? He came out in the first episode He knows a thing or two about reaching -- In the west, you can just or just do, you know, public ministry. you have to work strategies like we go for shopping, again, but we go pretending to be shoppers because again, meeting so many peoples But again, -- One year after, some of the other people, They came to faith and they The one you got you would share with Yeah, sometimes we'd print them and give them to them And we go somewhere, like a mountain, And then, we walk into a street and And if we have some opportunity, At one instance, I remember and then he said "ok", and we realized he's So still is dangerous. Out here some people It's a bit risky, but when they are and say, "Jesus is the Savior", they just take off. And God, after three years, we, one time, we came together just thinking, just And then, we came to recognized, that Wow. Just from one on one, through conversation. -- I was walking through of the Ibn Babvieh cemetery, and I came across a funeral service This is a historic site where technically you're But many still do. Funerals can mark some of the most somber And as most Christians have experienced, where we're especially thankful We're supposed to come alongside Weep with those who weep. And it's a time when your pastor join you to pray or share words But all of that got me thinking. What happens when a or someone in your house Or what about other significant moments Baptisms, weddings. Even just regular -- About 25 years ago, we I think about about five or six years ago, So we had house group churches. Everything is underground. Everything is So Iranian churches now in Iran, So they meet in groups, the houses, They have to be really careful They cannot be direct. They cannot call each other They have to be really, really careful singing songs, preaching. Everywhere they have to be mindful, in closed gatherings, like family they have to be careful when they talk because you never know. Maybe your brother members will turn you in. Well, I went to both a church building It was very good to have close But, well, we could never And if I were to say a little bit the fellowship we had together, and the fact that the house on teaching and spiritual nourishment, which was very useful for us. We got more spiritual nourishment. I mean, the service opportunities I never experienced What makes me sad nowadays they make it so complicated But where I grew up, mostly young people, who became Christian, and the family denied They come and join us. We were like a family. We had food and we talk, I play the little guitar We eat food, we read the Bible, We ask the churches in Tehran the more mature Christian to help us to and we grow up. So it was very raw, and it was a very close Although we did we did not have so many people But what is the purpose of the church? to know Christ. And I think we -- Was that something Yes. with other Christians? Like how do you share the gospel? How do you do that -- Secret. Yes, all in secret. We were all 007 agents. We know how to, took off the sim-cards from the phone, safe, and always someone by the window, and not singing with a loud voice, But we know we were risking our life, that's the life that God is giving us That's the point. One time, when I was the government arrested me. and one night I have been in jail, and they bring me out. Because you were evangelizing. And it was Christmas, It's was a small book, named The Way of the salvation. We printed it, and put some chocolates. We put it in the bag and we passed it After I arrived home at 3 a.m. and I see that someone knocked and it was two big guys I opened the door and the other one came to sit in chairs. And then they came and they took everything, like my books And they brought me to jail. I spent 29 days in one room I didn't know if it was morning They put you in a room They brought me to the You are blamed as a spy for Israel. A spy for Israel? against the government. And because in Iran It's like they put you in the category of The realities of modern society and should technically move Iran with a certain level of dignity particularly to minorities -- I was studying software and I was on my last semester when they And then the school authority This is your last semester finish it or not, And I think that's the many, one of the many few things and they actually They did not give So challenges from everywhere. We, my wife and I, a computer shop. They came and closed and shut it down We would go to our office, It was like official paper on the door come and pay a and that office. And we went and and by the end of the day oh, we're sorry, It was not you. It was just something else. And then tomorrow it was another Seems like the always want to put you in jail, but -- So the story that I'm hearing over from just different people you lose your education, your access your job, business, and you lose access to just because of fear, because you don't Or maybe people don't They're afraid that they'll also They were monitoring us I went to pay a visit to my uncle's and he still isn't After like, about an hour and said, I do really love you, Immediately after you left, and asked me these questions: "What was he doing there?" "Was he talking about Christ?" "Was he trying to make you a christian?" and he was like, and, you know, he was just here, but I don't want this. I don't want them to call me." There's a lot and I can't help but try to put myself Imagine this for your own life. You're born into a culture and searching for truth, into a religion that you are forced could mean losing your job, Following Jesus comes at There's no cultural or It doesn't make life easier. Following Jesus does make life, with all of its There's something we need to talk about. When it comes to the unreached to reach or any place we need to recognize these places and the people who live While they all may face there are multitude of factors that play Take North Korea, for instance. It constantly ranks as a country If you're identified as a Christian, Just having a Bible Jesus could send you and your family But that's not the only way persecution there's the island of Cuba. For generations, Cuba's communist regime viewing it as a dissenting voice. The government has banned all churches or meeting in the open. They don't allow people and doing any sort of religious work is pretty complex, forcing believers and even set up their own You'll find both of these countries, watch lists. Becoming a Christian in these places But here's the thing, and I know this might be obvious, In order to better understand we need to be a little more nuanced Living in a place that's hard to reach to the gospel. As we've explored in Iran, historical, political, religious, or indirectly affect And sometimes, you don't have to go to see how these challenges Mahsa Amini. Mahsa Amini. Six months woman Mahsa Amini, Arrested after improperly. Unprecedented Crowds of young men An unprecedented display of unity. The Iranian government's This sparked an outrage People took to the streets the Islamic regime's injustices. So how do you think they responded? At least 522 people have been killed, More than 20,000 arrests have been made. 100 of those on charges that can lead to a death sentence. At least four have been executed so far. The Islamic Regime does not tolerate and they will do everything in their power They hold their people in a chokehold, whenever they feel threatened, not even I was in Tehran shortly after Mahsa Amini was killed, Many streets were closed down. Police and armed forces were posted shut down the internet For my entire time in Iran, I was It's a surreal feeling, if this is how believers in hard Like, does anybody on the outside Does anyone care? So when almost 90 million people what hope can there be for a future of gospel growth? So you would think that shuts down the internet, Well, not quite. So I'm walking outside because they got football jerseys, I mean, he doesn't speak English. I don't speak Farsi, And I see him pull out his phone and immediately I'm like, &quot;Wait, what?&quot; Now I'm not addicted to Instagram, And everywhere So I asked the guy, and he explains to me surveillance in Iran is a very real thing. Another guy in the shop even said Iran which is how bad things were getting. But many people have found ways SIM cards, VPN connections, And all of this made me realize Iranians today are actually more connected Iran is the second country and in spite of government that 90% of Internet traffic So what I'm saying is, you can find a way to access And talking with Iranian believers, for getting the gospel in Iran but about what gospel they have access to. The biggest need for Iran is teaching. God is doing a lot for that, the theology and the people are coming It's a lot in Iran. I mean, it's earlier but there's not much leadership. There's not much training, and so people make mistakes. Exactly. Many Iranians have become They are now taking to the internet, TV, And incredibly, this has led to thousands, But like in so many other places, Iran but also, teaching And it makes things messy and confusing. It's kind of like what Jesus taught He tells us that whenever God plants seeds the devil's in the wave of confusion in the form of weeds The number one challenge, which I myself am trying to talk about, Can you imagine you are teaching or talking to a group of people and you just you tell them, &quot;Come to Christ So who said no to that gospel? If people don't have money, or if people are tired, and as the sons of daughter of the King, Or you know, Or tell people if you need a car, tell God what color So it's more like they turn God who sounds like a genie's alive thing. So just tell them what you need. Yeah. That's not the God that Bible teaches. I heard several stories and just happening to come across For many, it was a turning point, popular megachurch pastors we see in and broadcast all over I was also surprised in museums Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that seeing a picture of but I am saying that for Iranians, Jesus is not this inaccessible, So problem solved, right? Iran has been reached. What else do they need? Well, let's not be too hasty. From what we can gather, there are two big issues at play for a healthier First, They need more resources. Sure, but the right ones. We have the satellite. We can actually air everything in Iran. So we should be actually careful what we are giving them. They are There are serious seekers. We have to listen to them because We should actually okay, we said these are our ministry around that We do things, we Say this is the Western culture. We want to feed you with You know what I mean? Yeah. You want to contextualize something or you can't reinforce another culture Christianity is very young in Iran, But some people will see that yeah, Christianity to Iranian Christianity. Iranians inside Iran, they cannot really take that into heart. You know, there's so many good things the Western culture, But we have to be really mindful of not having the 100% of, the, you know, the, for example, That doesn't work. Nima had to leave Iran he's been working tirelessly on providing I mean, I don't know And a lot of what he does some of the best Christian content so that it can work for the Farsi We need resources. We need opportunities job like this, in great churches in the West, to sit with them and see, okay, softball illustration and still have that point. So the Iranian church needs more resources and gospel centered, even if they're just translations. And advances in technology have resulted podcasts that are all about the gospel but the fundamental basics But what about the most important What about the Bible? Having Bibles to give people was the really big challenge. That's why, right now my number one pray for the day for Iran is having Bibles. And thank God I know many, So they are online. So it's everywhere. Owning or distributing the Bible to Muslim but online access has made it The Bible has been translated into Farsi, that while having a Bible is huge it's also vital to have other believers, Christians who can gather together in their relationship through him, through the reading, And this brings us to another really urgent need In other words, It needs more gospel presence. Our Iranian brothers and sisters need but a faithful gospel presence They need churches. And perhaps, we need to consider if we lack Maybe not physically, present on our minds and hearts? Or do we just consider them lost causes? I talked to another Iranian pastor who said after the Iranian Revolution in '79, and said, And some people look at that work and say, &quot;It's impossible. Pretty much, How do you respond to that? When we look at, you know, the Bible, look at Acts. I mean, the Roman Empire, and then when we get to Nero, but we see godly people standing for And we see the same thing in Iran. So we should actually, in places like Iran, we should invest more Iranians are coming out of Islam now because now they know that that Islam So they're coming out of Islam. It's a great opportunity actually, the alternatives, saying, This is the way of life. This is, this And then, there's a thirst for that in Iran but they are misled. So I think it looks impossible, but underneath And we have lots of lots of godly They are willing to sacrifice of just getting the word out And we should actually help them because some people, I cannot go back anymore. So what I can do is I can support them. I can encourage them. In the Great Commission, Jesus commanded us to go to all nations and teach them to observe And what we're finding in Iran right turning from Islam who are now in desperate to see the gospel apply So how we equip and empower the church for them to first realize Yeah. Second, to learn more how they can disciple people, I don't think God is looking for a converted seeking, and looking for disciples, Milad here is asking the right question. How will Iranian disciples be made? And then, How can Iran go from a place to one that sends Christians As with most things worth doing, And there's no microwave discipleship But there are ways we can be present The primary way is through our prayer. Iran is already experiencing one brought on in part because of the under an Islamic regime. We can ask God to turn the tables in Iran. We can also be present with them through the opportunities This varies on where you live. There very well may be Iranian immigrants I mean California has a largest and many Iranian pastors Whatever it is we do, we can find hope The gospel is moving forward. And yeah, there are challenges but what God is doing in Iran nations is nothing short of a miracle. When my father died 32 years ago, the number of Iranian evangelists among Farsi-speakers was less than 20 or 25. But nowadays, we have thousands and thousands of evangelists, pastors, teachers, theologians. In the church years ago, all of this fruit was not predictable. Our pastor, those days, was pastoring But none of us were aware of those house Okay. For for the safety? For the safety, yes. So it was really hard to know but after we left Iran those days, we found that house churches I believe that Iran is a country to the whole Middle East is not only for the American It's good, We are more near to Arab people. And this is our job to go to There's a part of me that didn't really know what to expect I mean, I still don't really understand and rials, and I don't really I know maybe like two words, like would I have any kinship here? Would But I didn't really have to worry Yeah, I'm entering territory hostile Christians for a few days. But the experience here and the stories not that different than the ordinary life I'm just more aware of it, that's taking place around me. But it doesn't just take place here. It takes place everywhere, And sitting down with my new friends and Milad made me realize Just being with them for a few days I missing out any opportunities Could we pray more? Read more? Consider more? Send more? Even now, what the future holds But the one thing I don't have to wonder about is what will happen to the Iranian Church. Because I'm no prophet, and I know that in those last days, on the throne, there will be a multitude of Iranians too large for me to count. Until then, all we can do is press on. For my brothers and sisters in Iran, I really pray that they they go strong. They keep their hope, Jesus is close to his Church as Jesus is building his church. even though they right now, they feel the persecution. But when we read Revelation, God is pushing us to be faithful, okay, this is the persecution, but be faithful We know that Jesus is King. We know that the Kingdom is coming. This is not the Kingdom. Jesus is not gonna build So the Kingdom is coming, We're gonna keep preaching the gospel. And that's my hope that every single the gospel and put his or her Amen.