Translator: Angelica Teal It is this moment, isn't it? I'm looking at you, There's been such great energy. I was sitting here for five minutes, You look really friendly enough, You are looking a bit unsure Don't worry, it's going to be fine. And I can see a couple of There's going to be a few ideas, too. But it's this moment, when eyes, You are looking at me, and it hits my brain accelerating molecules, you might say. Different people deal with Some of us go, &quot;Hey!&quot;, you know? There are people who are confident, they cope with this moment Then there are other people and it stops them It makes them feel anxious, That is not the case. Actually, all of us What I want to talk about today is the idea that we can find if we know where to look. Where do we look? We go within. We look under the bonnet. That's where we are going next. And the reason I want to talk I stood in front of an audience which is by the Houses of Parliament, I was super excited about that moment because I knew that it was my big moment and I was going to be able to speak. I stepped up in front of that audience, and what happened was everything I went too fast, I lost my words. It felt like such a horrible experience. And just as I thought the microphone broke. I looked out across the room, - there wasn't so much wind (Laughter) I said in my big voice coach voice, And someone said, &quot;Speak up!&quot; I felt this feeling of absolute shame. That feeling of an audience and a feeling of judgment I left that venue, and I thought Clearly that didn't work I also thought I am going to do it I will make sure that next time Where I had to go was within. We live in a really visual culture. We spend a lot of time we spend a lot of time Maybe especially for women. Actually, confidence doesn't exist It exists within, in the visceral stuff, in the bits within you that we don't see. We are going to go to those bits. When I was thinking about when I was asked to do it, I started to feel nervous I started to think about a quote the director Peter Brook had said which is that we open I started to think Then I came across this really cool maker called George McCallum, I said to George, &quot;Can you make me And he did. You might be wondering And what this object is here But when you ask a maker they don't always do Do you want to see what he did? (Laughter) Yeah! Thanks George. Upstaged by the furniture. (Laughter) Within this little chest of drawers, this rather big, are three secrets Three lessons I had to learn on the way. There is a big lesson in here. The last lesson is the big one. We are going to get there, It's a lesson that might surprise you. But first, would you like (Audience) Yes! CG: It's a bit delicate this; George. So what we have in here is an instrument. Because you just been hearing the voice It's magnificent. How often do you think Because like this little guitar, Where is the string of your voice? Can you put a hand on it? Here, give it a shake; it's your larynx. Ahhhhh... Can everyone Ahhhhh! The hitter is the air. When you know what does that tell you? People come to me and say, &quot;I've a bad voice,&quot; &quot;I get worried about this kind of moment.&quot; &quot;I hate meetings,&quot; &quot;I hate The voice is an instrument. There is not such thing Because when we hear a great saxophonist, and he is probably somewhere down here, what we know that not only did they have talent and worked, and worked If you ever doubt the sound of your voice, let me tell you When I was worrying about that moment I am going to call my central hall what I remembered was the story called Demosthenes. There's a big old name, so we're going to call him which actually is also so we might just call him Dave, I think. (Laughter) Dave was speaking We have Simon in the room. It's like the Brixton Academy He was feeling pretty nervous. Orators were the rock stars of their day. So he geared himself up and you know what? He bombed. They said he was uncouth in his speaking, So the audience jeered at him, Please don't do that today! (Laughter) He left that stage feeling so downcast when he got a bit of advice from an actor. I'm sure Greek actors were I am sure the actor was a bit like this, &quot;You need more expression in your voice. You are not giving You also need to believe in yourself Demosthenes takes himself This is his rocky moment. He builds himself an underground cellar. He shaves his head - half of his head - so that he can't leave and then he practices in front of a big shield When he is ready, when he is up there, he goes out. He goes to the sea, His voice has to boom out over the waves. Then, he goes back. He speaks again, and he becomes known What does that tell you? It tells you about practice. The power of practice. You may not want you may not want to build because the council may have words, but what you can do is practice. And the simplest way You don't have to do a voice coach warm-up but what I really recommend sing in the shower, sing in the car, (Laughter) I was at St Thomas' Hospital and there were two women where the blood test So I recommend it. Singing is the way to a great voice. Practice is the way to a great instrument. That's lesson one. We have another drawer but before we get there, I've a question. Say you walk into a room, OK? You don't know anybody. Some of you may have had How do you know who the most The person with the most confidence, that inner confidence How could you tell? How they carry themselves. You are in the same space, aren't you? Because you are a singer. It is that how they carry themselves. Actually, what an actor will tell you The most powerful person in the room There is a well-known scientist called and he said because it seems that maybe isn't to science - that he couldn't understand and his research has explored it, until he started to understand You know I can't control my spleen. It is just doing its own thing. But I can control my breathing. And if I get into my breathing, I calm myself down. So what's within you is the key Actors know this because when actors are playing King, Everybody moves around the king, and that's how you know The next time you fell nervous about Within your body is something It's what the Greeks called I bet that 50% of this room Would you like to see what it is? Thank you, my still handsome friend. We've our lungs, don't we? We have this, which is probably not but it is nice. (Laughter) But what's down here? What's this? (Audience) The diaphragm? CG: Thank you very much! Diaphragm. Put your hands up if you have thought Put your hands up if you thought Thank you, singers in the room; good. Put your hands up if you haven't yet Yeah, that is quite a large percentage. So we don't think about But the diaphragm is the key It is how you calm yourself down in that moment when you stand It will make you feel confident when you most need it, I didn't know anything I'd learned about it. I knew but I didn't know how it felt. Then one day, I was feeling really stressed, I had that kind of squeaky high-voiced Not good. I walked into a yoga class, &quot;You look really stressed.&quot; Which is never a good start. He said, &quot;Lie down on the floor.&quot; And he laid me down, I closed my eyes, expecting some and suddenly, he put And he said, &quot;Breathe, lift that.&quot; I did. I breathed in, and as I breathed in, I had to lift that gym weight and my diaphragm shuddered into action. Suddenly, I got it. I got that I didn't need to that I could breathe down. I'd like to suggest that the diaphragm Should we find yours? We take a thumb-- Take your thumb and just put it Yeah, that's right, sir. You got it. (Laughter) That's it. With your thumb Lawrence Olivier, Lawrence Olivier - you know, the actor? was taught to breathe I certainly don't have London houses don't fit them But we can all practice if we breathe in Now breathe out and push back. You are filling up an air balloon Now, breathe in, Now breathe out, push it back. Welcome to your diaphragm. If you put your hand on your ribs, your diaphragm goes all the way around. You can also fill the rib cages You feel the ribs open as you breathe, and close as you breathe out. If you are ever nervous about Your diaphragm is the key So we've two lessons: we've the power of practice. There's a third lesson It's the one I started to think about this lesson because someone I'd worked with She wrote me an email, and she said she'd been through that you could imagine She had just got married, when her husband She had to go back to the church and speak a eulogy for this man. In fact, she also read a poem She said, &quot;On the worst day I had to find the energy of celebration and the only way to do it The skills of breathing low and slow; getting the control, It was the greatest gift There are moments in our lives not because we have but because we want a wedding, a eulogy. I would suggest that in those moments, What you need to know It's breath. It's air. Why does air matter? It's because we breathe our thoughts. All speech is our breath. And all in breath is thought. Just put a hand back on that diaphragm Then feel the breath in, and as you breathe in, If we were all to speak it would be full of love. Now breathe in again, and breathe in a feeling of excitement because it's going to be so good. If we were to breathe in then we have excitement in our voices. So you can control your voice with the idea of breath is thought. And it's in Latin, The Romans understood this: inspiration and respiration The Romans understood Because we speak on the out-breath, all you have to think about You know, the simplest way close your mouth. So who would have thought was that if you want all you have to do is to know (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)