The Making of the World's Finest Leather Shoes The Man Obsessed with Leather Shoes Main story June In the mountains of Yamanashi Prefecture Founded in 2021 Sneaking into the workshop The world's greatest leather shoe craftsman is here Appears while being pulled by a dog Leather shoe craftsman May 2024 "WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS SHOEMAKING 2024" Changing shoes and starting work Making the new leather shoes for autumn 2024 by the world's best shoemaker Designing the leather shoes Marking the heel Draw the base line with magic marker Draw the rough sketch with pencil Trace over the top with magic marker Finished image model Just as imagined Inserting the cutter as per the draft The stencil is complete He ponders which leather to use... Mr. Hishinuma's selection Brown fabric Checking the condition of the leather Marking the leather with white ink Make holes for the sewing needle on the pattern paper Make a pattern for the other parts in the same way Cut out the leather for each part Different types of leather We'll take a mold in the same way. The material is the leather from a horse's buttocks. The cutting of the parts is finished. The lining part on the toe side Pig skin This is a reinforcement for the vamp It's the inside of the shoe, rather than the sole. The parts are carefully cut one by one. The cut is applied to the smallest details. The thin parts are shaved off with a knife. The part that has been cut is complete. Leather planer The leather is thinned using a leather thinning machine. Preparations for operation Draw a white line when sewing the two pieces together so that they don't become thick The leather is made to fit when it is sewn together. The cross-section of the leather is dyed. The parts that are of concern are smoothed out using the hands. The cream is applied. The order in which the cream is applied changes depending on the leather. Making the holes for the needles Hole making is finished Sewing holes are also made on the top of the foot Spray glue on the areas where the stitches will be. Sew the fabric together. Apply glue Sewing of heel area complete Tape on the seam Shave the edges of the other parts glue sew together Attach the other parts in the same way. Sew them together. Apply glue to the stitched area Finished The theme of these shoes is This (shoe) model is called Chestnut. It's the most popular pattern in the Khish the Work order system. I was thinking of making a different version. This is what I'm doing this time. I'm trying to give it a more classic, Italian feel. Sewing the next part Hammering the seam to make it more flexible No.017 Sewing the tongue together Stitching the seam Stitching together Finishing with paste Sewing complete Mr. Hishinuma goes for a walk Making the insole The material is cow hide. The surface is scraped with a piece of glass. Soak in water After a few minutes Fitting the shoe to the last Processing the insole Nailing in the nails Leaving it for a while in this state Processing the top part again Gluing Processing the string hole Processing from the other side Shave off the edges The next day... Cutting out the core Outside Soak in water Rub with hands to loosen Processing the sole again Sharpening the blade Shave the sides Shave the arch of the foot Shaping the heel core Working on glass Deciding the shape of the sole Measuring with a tape measure Tracing a line with a blade Shaping it sandpaper scraping with a piece of glass Draw the plan again on the bottom part Carve it to match the plan Pull out the nails Make a deep groove shoe sole preparing for the blind stitch Making a hole Applying hardener to the heel Hardener "Katamail" After a few hours The leather is placed over the mold and struck. The leather at the heel is cut. Glue Nail on the top as well Hammer the fabric to make it pliable Hammer the nails in while stretching out the wrinkles Nail down Process the toe Similarly, the fabric is pulled and the nails are hammered in. The shape of the toes is sharp Sandpaper Cut off the excess parts scrape off pull out the nail Sand the back side too. Hardener knock down the nails originally Italian-like It's more like a classic Roman shoe. The key point is the shape of the toe. It's a square with a lot of volume, and it feels solid. I think it looks good. Continue to Part 2