- What's the best way to It's insanely complicated. Everything connects to everything; a gazillion little sub-regions. Amid all that complexity, there's a broadly sort of simplifying way to sort of think about when it comes to behavior. And this was an idea put forth a grand poobah on the field. Conceptually, of thinking in the brain of the brain is coming in the 'Triune brain.' And again, this is highly schematic- the brain really doesn't But one can think of the first most, the bottom most, the most ancient, is being what's often termed Where basically the parts in there, we've got the same wiring as in a lizard, as in any ancient creature. It's been there forever. Ancient, ancient wiring most inside, and what does that region do? All the regulatory stuff. Your body temperature changes, it senses it and causes It's monitoring your blood glucose levels. It's like releasing hormones that are essential to sort It's just, you know, keeping Sitting on top of that is, conceptually, what could be termed the 'limbic system,' the emotional part of the brain. This is very much a mammalian specialty. Lizards are not well known Part of the brain having to do sexual longings, all Very mammalian. You're off there in the grasslands butting heads with and it's your limbic system Then sitting on the top is The cortex, spanking new, most recently evolved part of the brain. Everybody's got a little bit of cortex, but it's not until you get to primates that you got tons, and So, functionally, it's very easy to think of the simplistic flow of commands. Layer two, the limbic system, can make layer one, the When is that? Your heart speeds faster, not because of a &quot;Ooh, you've been cut,&quot; something painful, but &quot;Oh, an emotional state.&quot; You're a wildebeest and there's some scary, threatening you in your territory, and that emotional state to activate the reptilian brain You have a stress response, not because a regulatory but for an emotional reason. Then, it's very easy to this cortical area, your limbic system, to Rather than something emotional, here's a threatening beast Something emotional- you see a movie that's See a movie, these are they're pixels, and it's that abstract cognitive state Likewise, your cortex, layer three, could influence events down in layer one. You see something upsetting. You think about something, &quot;One of these days my heart and your heart's going to beat faster. You're not bleeding and hypotensive, you're not in some hypoglycemic- nothing in the reptilian A purely cognitive state. &quot;Ooh, on the other side of the planet there are people undergoing and I feel upset about it,&quot; and your reptilian brain responds. So it's very easy, given that, to think of a three talks to two talks Just as readily though, one What would be a case of that? What's your reptilian brain Remarkable finding. When we're hungry, we make about people's transgressions. We're less charitable, we Our cortex, assessing the anti-sociality, and And part of what it's doing about somebody else's plight if you're hungry, if you're in pain, that affects very cortical Layer one, this ancient reptilian brain that should have nothing to having tons to do with it. Or layer two influencing layer your emotional state, influencing your abstract What's the most obvious example of it? When we're under stress, when we're in an we make stupid, impulsive decisions that seemed brilliant at the time. Affective, emotional limbic layer two, influencing how your cortical cortex goes about its abstractions. It's not that abstract. It's embedded in the This interaction between these layers seems this very mechanical process, potentially even an unconscious one. How do we consciously have, say, our cortex regulate an Simple. Think about the most that ever happened to and your cortex is evoking a memory that's got your limbic in some excited state. Or think about, think cortically, or pull out the memories and your limbic system is responding. How about reptilian level? Easy to make it get Sit there and think about, think about something Think about some memory Think about mortality, and your heart speeds up. Layer three, in a very conscious way, has mobilized layer one. Lot harder is the inverse. You're sitting there and you and either they can marinate for the rest of your life, a biofeedback approach is sit there and think about the Think about being in an Think about your favorite vacation. Think about, think about, and if it's the right thinking about, suddenly your heart slows down suddenly your blood pressure goes down. Ah, the core of what sort of conscious that will affect your reptilian brain in a direction that's And all you do then is learn in some stressed, &quot;What conscious active at this point that will cause changes in how my big toe's In a case like that, that of more autonomic, more