Ahhh! Ooh! She's easy. She's foolproof. She's still reliably flaky. She is pate, pate brisee! [giggles] [upbeat music] Hello and welcome In this episode, I'm going to teach you how to make my absolute My pate brisee recipe. This dough is not only super simple, it's pastry doughs there is. And best of all, it's super buttery, and reliably flaky. This dough is great for beginners, with pie dough, or even experienced This is one crust that can really make So let's get baking. Let's talk about the different ways I typically make this dough which really adds to the quick and easy But luckily, if you don't have one or you don't feel like lugging it out, The food processor or humid environments A pastry cutter can do the same job. It just takes a little more muscle. Pastry cutters are great because you don't have to actually And you won't risk warming up the butter You can even refrigerate or freeze a pastry cutter While you're working with the dough. It's also possible to mix pate brisee by hand. But it does take a little more time because the butter is worked if you need help keeping everything cool you can actually chill your bowl before you start mixing, just to make sure No matter which mixing method you choose. The visual cues included in The goal here is to mix so it doesn't even look visible, All right. Let's mix this dough In this method, the fat The goal here is to no longer The flour will start sort of white It'll almost look like cornmeal. Part of the reason this happens to hydrate during the mixing process, due in the butter. You'll notice that even though this ratio dough, the amount of water I call for in And this is why we've already started before we even begin to add It typically takes less water Because the fat is so fully incorporated. So now you can see why using the food especially easy, uniform, and even. Okay. Real talk. This is my favorite food processor And I know it's not the prettiest. It's got, like, you know, some, like, I don't care. Sometimes I try to use but the reality is, if I was making this this is the one I'd be using. This is my channel. So I'm just going to use it I got it at a garage sale from someone who accidentally got So they gave it to me for pretty cheap And I love it. It's just like a nice little size. My favorite. It's perfect for one batch of pie dough. In my opinion. So let us commence making the pate brisee Flour into the food processor. And the fine sea salt too. And I'll just pulse that a few times just to combine those dry ingredients. Then I'll break up the butter cubes and add them into the food Now I'm going to give this a pulse until Now the food processor makes super quick work of that first part, Here's why. I really don't like adding water because it's too easy for that moisture in the edges or corners of the bowl For this reason, I find it really hard in the food processor, take it too far, adding too much moisture So instead, I like to transfer the mixture Then I'll make a and start adding the water. Gradually. Start by adding the initial quantity and then add a little more at a time first, I'll use a tossing motion to distribute that water Remember, this is one of those dreaded plus more as needed times. Okay. pie dough will always hydrate differently you're using, and even the initial quantity of water in this You may need to add more. As the dough starts You can use more of a stirring bring the dough together. The dough should be uniformly combined and come together easily, Dough that's too dry or look like it has visible It may not hold together don't. It's too wet, and it's often smoother Don't forget to check out the full episode All about hydration in your pie dough. It is super helpful Once the dough is properly hydrated, form it into a disc Chill the dough for at least one hour in the refrigerator. Or if you want to store the dough longer, for up to three months. Just remember to thaw the dough [upbeat music] I'm going to use my chilled pate brisee to make my pumpkin sugar pie, And for that, I need to par-bake the crust. So let's do it! I'm Erin McDowell, creator of Pie Beans. Let me tell you why you need pie beans Pie beans are the only pie weight And, you know, bakers There's enough beans in the single set fill a standard pie even a springform pan Best of all, these get floury or greasy. You put them in the dishwasher bag, you throw them in the dishwasher, Look how easy that was. They're absolutely sparkling. for the beans in the crust Look how lightning fast that was. You following the camera guy. This is for your pumpkin pie, Life is hard as it is. You don't need crummy pie weights weighing No more buying multiple sets, that don't even do what Have you tried dried beans? Dried I mean, they work, Metal chains aren't heavy enough, and What even are these? They're worthless. Ceramic pie weights are heavy. They roll all around your kitchen. Want to see if your house is leveled? That's the only time to use them. What are you going to do? Shell out the money to buy five sets No, you're a baker, not a dummy. You're going to get pie beans. And if you order today, free of charge, for a total of 655 beans. They're going to think I've gone crazy, pie beans. Stop making ***** pie. Stop having a ***** life. Here's To get your bag of pie Don't delay. Visit today. Preheat the oven to 425degF 205degC, with an oven rack in the lower Place a chilled, docked pie Grab a piece of parchment paper and. Scrunch it up. And place it inside your pie crust. Fill the pie crust with pie. Like my new pie beans Transfer to the oven Until the outer edge After this initial bake time, and transfer them to a heat safe bowl. If desired, you can use a fork to add This is especially great all buttah pie dough. Then return the crust to the oven and bake matte on the inner surface Okay. This is my pumpkin sugar pie. It is a really delicious kind of custard It's actually thickened with flour. And it's a little bit different But I have to admit, I don't actually But I really like this pie. [upbeat music] Okay. I've got my custard. It's I'm just going to pour it I've got my oven preheated to 375degF, 190degC, with an oven rack I'll bake the pie for 35 to 40 minutes and the interior Thank you so much for joining me I hope you love my method as much as I do, As always, the recipe for this dough below, along with the recipe And don't forget, recipes like these on my website if this episode gets you excited to bake in the comments or use hashtag I love to see what you're making And until next Sturdy. Once more. One more time for the pie fans in the back. She's sturdy! [crowd yells yay!]