Wow, this is curious. They brought me a mole with chopsticks. Look how funny. I guess it makes sense. You have to tropicalize, you have to adapt. Welcome to another edition of Luisillo, El Gordillo. We are once again in Japan, a beautiful country that has already seen us getting morbidly fat on more than one occasion. But in this video we will leave aside the ramen, the sushi, we will take the yaki out of taco-yaki to concentrate on taco places and Mexican food in general. Today, more than ever, the Japanese are curious to know more about the Latin culture, and this is very noticeable with the enormous gastronomic offer that there is, product of chefs from our side of the world are venturing to make interesting mixtures with which they have gradually managed to win the hearts and appetites of Japanese consumers. Will we find exquisite places that go beyond the stereotype of the classic burrito and nacho? That's what we are about to find out. Normally, I'd say let's hit it, but we're in Japan, so I'll say Iki Macho. This little taco place is really good, it's called the booth, it's characterized by preparing them in a taco cart, just like in the very Latin American America. Inside they have more tables, they serve different types of chelas and so on. And this place has been very successful, to the point that they have already opened a second branch and I am told that they are very tasty, very authentic. We have been here for five years now with the Chibuya booth. We are growing little by little thanks to your support. Do you have more foreign or Japanese customers? A little bit of both. Chibuya is a tourist area, so there will always be a lot of visitors from abroad and they all come to visit us. It's always a stop to come here to this taqueria, but we also have a lot of local customers. They have accepted our food very well. In fact, they recommend it among the locals as well. So I could say it's about fifty-fifty. And it's great, because here you can interact with the taquero, who by the way, are Japanese taqueros. Yes, right now our team, most of them are Japanese. What's the best taco? Which one do I order? I recommend the pastor and the carnitas. Takasan, pastor or hitotsu, to... Carnitas to hitotsu, kudasai. Look, there he is, asking for taquitos al pastor in Japanese, from chef Takasan in Japan. And in this place it also strikes me that they use blue corn. This is something that many people do not know. There is blue corn, it's not like they paint it afterwards. And the tortilla they make with it, honestly, is my favorite. Provechito. Oh, wow, that's delicious. You know the best compliment I'm going to give you? I can't tell the difference. I could be eating at the little market on the corner of my house and you will find out what the seasoning is, what the proportion is. Applause to the chef. The seasoning of Don Lupillo, of the taqueria down the street and of Takasan, the same. I don't expect it, it's a very surreal scenario. It's like: What was there, le dona Pelos, very tasty, Ohio dona Pelos, Yamaguchi san. A cultural mix, delicious. Tasty experience. To wash it all down, a little aguita de jamaica (hibiscus juice). Wow, that's delicious. And look, despite the difficulty in obtaining certain ingredients, it's not really expensive. You pay for something like that about one thousand, five hundred Y=, about ten dollars. More than acceptable. Now let's try some gourmet tacos. This place, which is called Los Tacos Azules, is extremely successful and is characterized by making asa tacos, that is, Mananeros tacos. In fact, the place is so successful that they have the luxury of simply opening from nine:zero a.m. to three:zero p.m. and they are packed. They tell me that they get to see lines here. It's a tiny little place, like a very popular place. They have very interesting mixtures of Mexican and Japanese ingredients and promise to offer a very good gastronomic experience. We are five years old. It's going to be six, because little by little it has become a point. This is a breakfast place. We call it asa tacos, which means morning tacos or morning tacos. We were, I think, the first place in Japan of that style. And we make freshly made blue corn tortillas, if we import the corn from Mexico. And we have stew tacos, we have carnitas tacos, barbacoa, chilaquiles, we even have placoyos, quesadillas. What is peculiar about this place is that we use Japanese ingredients as well. So, for example, you can find tamales with sakura, for example, with Japanese red beans. We have wagyu, Japanese beef. I mean, all the ingredients we use are Japanese, it's part of the concept. And I wanted to bring the best of Mexico, which according to me are the tortillas, so we make our tortillas from scratch, we have a mill in the tamale and we use native corn and by hand, yes. And we have received very good response. To start to open the stomach, two drinks. We have a chilate from the area of Guerrero, Mexico, but made with rice milk very Japanese style. This chilate is delicious. No, no. And an amasake, this is full Japanese, which is basically like sake before it is fully fermented and becomes a full alcoholic beverage. It's very high proof. It's not for everyone, but I will say it's funny that the texture even resembles pulque. So, that's why, in fact, it was included in the menu, because it's like pulque, like Mexican, but the Japanese recipe. This one, more or less. The truth is that the prices are a little high, but I feel that people on the Internet were exaggerating. There are tacos, for example, the Wagyu tongue taco, which costs about twenty dollars for a single taco, but from there the others are the equivalent of about four dollars, which considering that it is Japan, it is not so expensive and the recipes are very interesting. This recipe is crazy, it is the Chire Poblano Relleno. They tell me that the poblano peppers are made in a special farm that alters them so that they come out this small and fit in this tortilla. By the way, as the name of the place says, tacos Azules, here all the tacos are made of blue tortilla. And chef Yuna, I am told, is one of the cracks of tortilla making in all of Japan. She knows it hard, she has taken courses. Let's add a little bit of sauce here. Let's see how about the chile poblano? Stuffed with goat cheese. Wow! What a curious recipe. Wow! Ten out of ten. Excellent combination. They make Oaxaca cheese quesadillas from quesillo, but made in Japan. They make it in the Jokaido region, which is famous for having the best dairy products. And they do have a supplier who brings them the cheeses in a ball. This quesadilla is very tasty. The chilaquiles here are served with egg and chicharron, but the egg is a poached egg, for example, like the kind of egg they put in ramen. So, it is an interesting mixture. Just like that, the egg with the yemita guadita. Delicious. Let's see how they are. They are delicious, but honestly I am Tim. Chilaquiles are the latest trend, you know? They are crunchy and greasy, although these... And now, the daddy of chicks, the $twenty wagyu tongue taco. They tell me that this one is expensive because they only get this type of wagyu tongue two a month. And the preparation so that it is not as tough as the tongue is usually is the barbecue preparation, which softens the meat. All these factors combined make it a taco, yes, expensive, to be honest. See what a taquitito it is. What a curious taquito. Let's see, come on. Let's see, first of all, for people who are not from Mexico. In Mexico it is very, very common to be seen with tacos de lengua, tacos de sesos, Mexicans like it, they tolerate it. Personally, I have never liked this type of tacos. I don't know what it is about the preparation of this tongue that I'm even giving it a double bite. It has this beardy, extremely mild taste. How is it prepared? It is prepared using the famous &quot;lengua al hoyo&quot; technique. Right now, we're giving the chef a very hard blowjob. I said: &quot;So, do you like the tongue in the hole? And the chef: Yes, it's delicious. So many years out of Mexico, look, you don't see it coming. They catch you by surprise. Personally, I'm a big fan of lengua al hoyo. How tasty it is. For dessert they serve a sweet tamale, rosita like the authentic Mexican tamale, but made with sakura and Asuki beans. It is served with this sauce that is made with sakura and white chocolate, what a funny mix. What a funny mix. You know what you should do, Marco? Buy a bicycle, put your tamalera on and go. Tamales de sakura, sugar tamales, hot, delicious. Ideota, write it down. Actually, it does exist here, but with the kamotes. Really? I mean, does anyone ride by on their bicycle screaming? There is the Japanese equivalent of screaming: Imo. Yes, and tasty? Oops, delicious. Tasty. He loves kamote here. Well, what can I tell you, honestly, this place has fascinated me. I love the cultural mix that is happening. That's what cooking is all about, mixing cultures, mixing stories. What a way to exalt Mexican gastronomy on the other side of the world. Wow, I didn't expect this one. We are in the region of Nagasaki, which honestly does not have so much tourism, not so many migrants live here. And we stumbled upon this Mexican restaurant called El Dorado, located right in the booze drinking area of the girls' bars. Here you can come and enjoy a good taquito, a good guacamole and they even prepare it as sole. Interestingly, you can find many authentic products such as tequila, mezcal, chilito, tajin, mole, achiote, etcetera. We started a year ago, we started because we wanted to bring Mexican culture to the city of Nagasaki. People know a lot about wrestling and tacos, but they haven't tried them. So, my wife and I decided to start a taqueria that grew in terms of dishes and in terms of bringing more tequilas, bringing more food. And here we are. Hey, I love that you have very authentic products. Look, Mark even has his own tortilla maker here. The tortilla is handmade, right? That's right, it's handmade. No, it really feels very Mexican. And you can tell when, in fact, it is run by a Mexican and a Japanese woman. In other words, he fell in love with Mexico, not that he lived there for a while. Is this tequila what we have here? Yes, it is tequila. Let's see, shall we have one or what? Sure, sure. Mark, here's to you and to the success of your business and of Mexicans in Japan. Of course, to the Mexicans in Japan. Salucita. Come on, say hello. This one. Yes. No, man, now the inspiration is going to flow. Of course it will. What is your specialty here? What regions of Mexico do you prepare food from? We have food from various regions of Mexico. The best is, I think, Pozole or Cochinita de Yucatan. Cochinita? Yes, Cochinita is delicious. And in fact, it is one of the tacos that the Japanese prefer the most. It really is. It's the best seller. And what do you have more customers? Japanese, foreigners? Where do they come from more? Right now, half Japanese and half from other countries. And other countries, for example, Latinos, also the United States and Europe, something like that. Wow, this is really curious. They brought me a mole with chopsticks. Look how curious. I guess it makes sense, you have to tropicalize, you have to adapt and you respect yourself. Also, check this out. The tortillero. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, super authentic and keeps the handmade tortilla warm. Look at the smoke coming out of it. A delight. So come on, let's have a Japanese mole taquito with Mexican rice and chopsticks. A beautiful sample of cultural mix. Come on, let's have some. No, man, it's delicious. I feel like I'm at my cousin Lupita's fifteenth birthday. No, this mole is very authentic. Hey, Marco, do the Japanese like mole? Sure, in fact it's a dish that they are very familiar with because it's similar to Japanese curry. Sure, it is very similar. Just as they adopted the Indian curry and call it Kare, they are going to adopt the Mexican mole and call it more. And so with chopsticks, look at that, honestly, it has great charm. ten out of ten. Now the cochinita pibil tacos have arrived. And I noticed that they have a lot of different kinds of sauces here, even habanero chili and everything. So as not to disrespect my Yucatan carnals, I have to add a little habanero chile. Oh, wait, it got good. Thank you, Mica, thank you. Carnitas and everything. Yum, yum, yum. Thank you, thank you. Wow, what? So, also carnitas and the whole thing. I don't know which one to start with. Let's go with the cochinita. Consistency the tortilla good. Appearance, I would say not red enough, but the flavor might surprise me. No, yes, the flavor is very authentic. Oh, the habanero does sting. No, it does sting severely, it stings severely. And now for the carnitas. Carnita de maciza, this is pure maciza. Provechin. Very good, very tasty. Honestly, I was fascinated, look. When I decided to come to Nagasaki a few days ago, I would not have believed it if they had told me: You are going to be in Nagasaki living with a Mexican band, eating a mole, some carnitas cochinita taquitos. It is delicious. To wash it down, they brought me a very interesting mezcalito that comes with a little scorpion, with a mini scorpion. Well, come on, that's all there is to it. Alacrancito with mezcalito, it goes inside. That's where the scorpion tastes like mezcal. There, man, it tastes really strong. I'm going to roll back to the hotel, rolling. Well, I loved it, I was fascinated. Great tacos, great mezcal, great everything. It's brutal. ten out of ten for everything. I think it goes without saying. We have found the most authentic and delicious places. Japan has seen us get morbidly fat once again, but now Mexican style. Thank you for joining me. See you, as always, as you know, in a few days with a new video. Bye.