Translator: Tanya Cushman It's October 2010. I'm freaking out. Sirens are blaring above me. I'm laying on a stretcher My doctor just told me I'm trembling, my arms are tingling, and this pain in my chest Tracey and the kids I might never get to hold them again. This can't be happening. My life cannot be over! And yet here I am, probably dying. But it doesn't happen. Instead, I get extracted and thrust into a reality I've got tubes jammed in my veins, sensors covering my chest, and a cold, silver bedpan I also get to wear while they administer every possible test they can charge my insurance company for. (Laughter) On the third day of this drama, &quot;Well, good news, Jim. You're healthy as a horse. No heart attack, And then he asks me, &quot;Now, what's a healthy man like you What's your life like?&quot; Well, then I got to confess about the morning routine I've developed When I wake up in the morning, so that I can wake up enough (Laughter) Then I drink several more cans I also fess up about like four bowls of Lucky Charms and that for some reason, I have trouble sleeping. Even though I am chronically exhausted, I usually get about four hours The doctor's face turned somber. He looks at me and he says, &quot;Jim, this is a get-out-of-jail-free card. I want you to know, there was a man a year younger than you, with a similar condition, and who died this morning. Today you have a chance to make changes Four hours of sleep per night and there is no quicker way to die early especially with all the crap You need at least seven hours Seven hours. I haven't gotten and now my body's breaking down. I know I've got to do something, Soon I would discover something the key to falling asleep is rhythm. This discovery came from my need Ever since I was a kid, at bedtime, I can never Sometimes it will be a worry, other times a song and just loop around and around. When I got home from the hospital, and so I researched sleep which I learned include heart attack, and just as my doctor had told me, premature death. I also read a Harvard Business study that shows the impairment that happens is similar to the impairment that happens when a guy my size Then I came across In the US alone, 35% of adults - that's 86 million of us - are sleep deprived. What's worse, 87% of teenagers. That's 36 million kids are chronically sleep deprived. Worldwide, scientists are calling sleep deprivation with low-income people and women I know I've got to do something, and so I let go of the energy drinks, I cut way back on coffee, and I even give up And it helps. A little bit. But at bedtime, I still cannot On my way home from work that week, an idea hit me. I don't know why Since 1999, I've been leading At the beginning of these programs, I lead an exercise where the group and I drum together boomp, boomp, boomp, boomp, boomp. We do this for a few minutes. At the end, without fail, people tell me that the exercise It had never occurred to me that I could do the exercise And so that night, I did an experiment. At bedtime, I sat at the edge of my bed, and I began doing my drumming exercise Upon seeing my strange behavior, my wife, Tracey, looked over at me, rolled her eyes But I kept at it. I wanted to find out And at first, nothing happened. But then, after about four I noticed my eyelids I was yawning, and I decided just to lay down When I opened them again, it was morning. I slept a solid seven-and-a-half hours And most nights, since 2010, I've been getting I do it using an exercise that I call &quot;brain tapping.&quot; Now, this exercise uses a phenomenon it's called the This is a very fancy way of saying that your brain loves to follow Essentially, your brain, first, it connects with it, and it begins to follow it. Whenever you listen that's the frequency-following What we're going to do is we're going to help that we're going to activate it, and then we're going to help to slow by slowing down the rhythm. Now, there might be that are thinking to yourself, &quot;Does this hippie that I can use rhythm Really?&quot; And what I'd say back to you What if I could show you in less time than it takes you Would you try it? Now, here's the great news. You do not need to be good only willing to try. Here's what happens. The exercise, it's 30 seconds. What we're going to do We're going to be tapping so right left, right left, right left - very lightly. As we do this, we're going At the end, we're going So, if you're willing, I'm going to invite you just to settle in. Take a big breath in. Begin very lightly tapping on your legs right left, right left, right left. If you're comfortable, I want to invite you so you can get the full experience. Next, we're going to do Your job is just to do your best So eyes are closed, we're tapping lightly, and let's start the breathing. Breathing in slowly, two, three - it's very slow - four, and slowly out, two, three, four. Breathing in - doing great - two, three, four, and slowly out, two, three, four. Breathing in - almost there - two, three, four. And slowly out, two - very good - three, four. And now, slow the tapping down, and slow it down again. Four, three, two, one. And relax. Take a moment to notice Let's take a big breath in, and let it go. You can open your eyes. And I saw a couple of you yawning. I take that as a compliment, so thank you. (Laughter) If you got the exercise congratulations. You've got a new friend to help you get to sleep. If the exercise didn't work don't worry, you're not broken. Sometimes it takes a few tries Please don't give up. Now, imagine getting Imagine how much better you'll feel, and then imagine people all over the world doing this exercise Imagine how that might I've got a challenge for you: for the next five nights, I want to invite you just to run Remember, tap like a ticking stopwatch, breathe slowly, and at the end, slow the rhythm down. Once you're comfortable with it, I want you to feel free to teach it especially kids. Good luck and sweet dreams. Thank you. (Applause)