Spend some time as it. You've come up in the world. I can say the same about you. I wonder if your darker half would agree. Come. On. Exactly what kind of a lawyer are you? A really good one. We have a long road ahead of us. Much to do. Oh my God! The king is back, everyone. Marvel released a new teaser for Daredevil Born Again that wasn't in the Comic-Con trailer, There's also a bunch of footage for other upcoming shows, for like, the really big stuff later this week They're like, oh, yeah. And by the way, some of it before the end of this year. Daredevil Born Again is releasing March 4th next year. I'll be doing episode videos for that, Netflix series and for all the other stuff if you're brand new to the channel, I love the way they tee up the trailer, too, with Deadpool seem like the TVA is showing him Like you're going to be jumping around If he's like the new Stan Lee that would actually be pretty funny. I would be totally okay The cameos in every single thing. one of the the reasons why they're using Deadpool is because they're releasing Deadpool and Wolverine Just in a couple weeks. 009. Just covering the new Daredevil Born Again footage. During this video, though, they start on the shot of muse He's meant to be the big villain of Daredevil born Again Part of the idea is that Daredevil and Kingpin they even revealed that when the series picks up, they've the way that Charlie Cox talked about it. He said they've agreed to stay in their own lane. So, like Fisk running for mayor and Daredevil they just kind of left each other alone next big scene might remind you of something And this is also meant to hammer home Like this. Just like Daredevil season four, if you couldn't tell it's Kingpin from Daredevil season It's meant to be rabbit in a snowstorm. But you notice there's a blood splatter on it, too, behind Vanessa Which would also remind you of Daredevil season three of the Netflix series, because he got arrested in Vanessa wearing the red in front of the red part I think the idea here is that the blood splatter at the end of season three, So he didn't have the painting cleaned up. He just left the blood on the painting doesn't it feel very kingpin of him to hang that up like he's been eating dinner next to this art piece during the original series. Then we get the brand new Daredevil Born Again logo. Notice if you zoom in, enhance on it. We got, like a nice shiny HD version of it. Now you can actually see the New York City in the background of the logo part of the reason why they're calling it Daredevil Born But the way they're doing it, they're saying that canon to the MCU, but it's essentially the characters But really, it's if you're a long time subscriber to my channel three back in the day, that was actually also based on so it's also meant to be ironic, like three to do season four, season one is nothing like the Daredevil Born Again we see Daredevil in one of his new costumes. One of, I remind you, we see several different new Daredevil costumes during the trailer I think this is meant to be the one with muse. Like, they just break it up across the trailer you really see him have in this trailer are against muse That's right. You see him fighting Bullseye in bullseye. one of the new complaints about his new suit Make all the jokes you want about him having Double D's. but I think the idea is that'll be part of his arc. And he will eventually get the Double D's on his chest then we actually see him reuniting with kingpin saying, it's been some time, hasn't it, since sometime It's also meant to be a tongue in cheek kind of joke, like been a long time, this is after kingpin has become mayor. This is one of his new aides. He's You could think of him. notice. It feels a lot like that scene from Spider-Man their phones out and is videotaping what they're doing Daredevil looks really pissed off. So it seems like he did not expect to see Fisk. Or maybe they just bumped into each other the look of disgust on his face wants to punch him Then we see a very clear shot of Jon Because the first time we actually saw him in the last He had this beard like he hadn't shaved in a long time. So this is after he's cleaned himself up a little bit. All of the supplies behind him Kingpin says You've come up in the world in part of the idea. Look, you see Matt Murdock walking into the courthouse in part of the idea that Marvel and Charlie Cox explained three, his law practice with Foggy Nelson and Karen Page because they called the truce, and he's not been spending He's dedicated himself to the law practice. And because he's a very good lawyer, like, Very good lawyer. he's been winning all kinds of cases. So they've been doing really well. Like, the law firm itself is doing very well. then you see him at the diner met each other in a long time. Like, it's been a long time and he says, I could say the same about you. Because Fisk ran for quote unquote, trying to clean it up his way, that you see him in the white suit This big party here Not sure what's going on with them walking out of the bank Maybe this is part of the entrance to his actual place. Like he actually put a bank vault on the door that would also feel like a very kingpin when he tells Daredevil, You have to remember, That's why he's saying that. Daredevil also knows all the shady, really, but like I said after the events of Daredevil season three And I think this is just meant to be maybe during the events of echo in the five year time he was just trying to clean up the city where kingpin was doing And that was what the truce was all about. Like not directly moving against kingpin, but going after so the idea is when he's not letting kingpin do It's just that he's not going directly after him. not sure where he's walking through this But there's all of these people. It might be part of a rally or, like, The kingpin related. as he continues to mention his darker hat, These are part of the same ones that we saw him earlier in the timeline, during the five year time jump this scene of him crashing through the window here's like the same place where Josie's used to be. Is him fighting bullseye with them crashing through the window like their fight I think part of the idea is that bullseye, after like you can see him getting out of prison here in foggy Nelson trying to complete the job Like during Daredevil season three, based on the other footage It just seems that they're at the bar. And then later that night, bullseye comes out with them. then at that. They chuckle at the tongue in cheek comments His daredevil in Daredevil really important shot of the big upgrade with all the special effects in that big, big MCU this is something that we never got to see. During the original Netflix series, Daredevil Almost Spider-Man stuff. It's meant to be more like comic book I think they would have done this didn't have the money for the special effects then we get a much longer fight But there's a bunch of interesting stuff Amuses lair. So this is meant to be like his comic book Notice in the background Part of the idea in the comics after what he sees as villains The problem with the muse villain, though, is that he's Like, it turns into like a full on saw horror movie. The way he treats the people that he goes after. He goes mostly after politicians, judges that he thinks but they're not meant to be quite as much villains So that's And Punisher is not. part of the idea during the series is what he is doing. Killing all these people is so much worse It makes him the main villain of the series. So Kingpin and Daredevil there's a lot of other side stuff We'll get to that in a second. muses. Big claim to fame, though, is that he's an artist, and he uses his killings to create his art pieces That's why it's so gruesome. this is actually part of that new fight with bull's eye New suit. Now, it's not a comic book accurate bull's eye suit, accurate bull's eye suit. Not clear It might be near Josie's in. Their fight just spills over into Josie's. This might be Karen love some of the classic daredevil action, too, this actually part of a totally different fight. Not against muse, not against bullseye, but it's when he's just acting as Matt Murdock That also just happens to have Kamala Khan's father Daredevil just happens to be there in his regular clothes in the bank gets robbed, Then they have the funny scene of been and Kamala Khan's father being like, And he makes the Spider-Man if you haven't been to New York City, you have to remember Jersey City is actually relatively close he just probably commutes every day from Jersey city but because he appears during this. I'm not expecting to see a cameo from Miss Marvel. Like, tonally, it just doesn't feel like she fits there's a bunch of different footage I'll do separate trailer videos for all that stuff like the Ironheart, Marvel Zombies, Wonder Man, Don't worry, I'll get those out as soon as I can. they're all meant to be very, very different. Like, Some of them are animated in different ways. But then we get more Daredevil born again This was like in his mayor's office at his desk. his speech saying we have a long road ahead of us is from what seemed like his staff and some reporters, where he's this is probably right after he takes office, he says they have much to do. That's also meant to be tongue in cheek, like Marvel and we get a full on fight scene with Daredevil with the skull logo against a bunch of cops inside it looks like the cops come after Punisher, and joins the fight to help him out. Love the fact that Daredevil headbutts one of these dudes. I think they're the same cops that they're fighting This is probably from the later episodes. Just because Punisher cleaned himself Part of the idea, I think, is during the series, some of the cops around the city are wearing So Punisher is going after corrupt cops. Maybe some of them are on Kingpin's payroll, on an anti vigilante campaign, using him as sort of like a launching platform. Like, look at this terrible villain We need to stop all vigilantes. but it uses. That campaign is an excuse to go after the heroes heroes in New York City Characters. for those asking yes, all the other defenders Jessica Jones, I think, is supposed to be I don't know if they're saving her for season two. They're just going to mention her during season one, but like even Iron Luke Cage is supposed to come back those other characters might not be to like season Daredevil eventually does get past season three and season there's a bunch of new stuff going on here, with a whole bunch of different footage. I'll link that at the end of this too, Just because they're getting ready for D23. Brazil. And there'll be a Daredevil born again like that Thunderbolts much fuller, daredevil born again trader at that, That's going to be in a couple weeks. whatever new stuff they wind up releasing or reveal. Of course I will do videos for that when it does happen, so you don't miss that. Everybody click here for that other Daredevil Born again different footage, and click here I'll update the link