Hey, everyone! So let me know what you think in TV needs an unboxing. We've definitely played but in the end, I feel like a TV needs to be Maybe it's got something unique about how you that we haven't seen before. Kind of want to about it is that it's just over the top and the TCL 115-inch TVs. I think those With that in mind, why are we unboxing Welcome back, everyone! I'm Caleb Denison, and not a great look. So anyway, I wanted to do an Panasonic's back (and that's kind of notable--we why that's notable). But this one, Panasonic has were leaves on this thing--Panasonic has gone out And that's part of the reason why I because it has a pretty top-notch audio system Panasonic goes a different direction than But I wanted to take a second to kind of dive but also how Panasonic went about it. With OLED even if there is a little bit of a bump out at the entirely in service of having an audio system. I So let's go ahead and dive into this thing. I about this TV. I don't know how many there Therapy--shout-out, Brian--has looked at this surprised by whatever is waiting for to give sort of an honest, organic reaction What I'm learning right now is that there the foam has not held up so great. This TV definitely a byproduct of how the shippers to be stuff stowed up here that's not here, to open the top of the box. I don't know. I'm Off comes the lid, and off to the side you All right, wow. I am glad that I kind of interesting. Zeke, let's get a profile, top-down, the profile view made it seem like the bump out a really interesting center column. The bump but you do still get some of that impossibly is recessed on the sides, I can see how this might But to me, it definitely seems like Panasonic I'm not sure how much of this is, you know, in the least bit certain where the remote them here eventually, but normally and it was not in this particular stand--interesting design choice, definitely Okay, I definitely got one of the models demonstration because this has got all kinds the box is not in great shape--it's been a remote, and a manual. At this do is lay her down and get this base on, You know what, guys? Sometimes I'm reluctant to my thoughts and feelings on stuff because, you that you will get if you buy this TV. You're going to be fine. The foam's probably not going blown out--and it is blown out. This thing is not We are going to make it work. Feel like in a lot of my unboxings lately. Hit to hear me sing more often. I feel like I Okay, boy, this is just not going textbook here. hanging out in the bottom of the box--$64 per year, just ventilation or part of the audio system, but As expected, two 4K 144Hz ports. Um, one of them is the eARC port. That is not a As I'm picking up this base, I realize it's got computer monitor vibes going how useful that might actually be. So, I will say unboxing and setup, I super easy, and I do like that--well, at least the we'll find out. I did not have the best Which reminds me, somebody really got on how status bars are a complete farce them not implementing a status bar. Look, fine. They still have a psychological impact, and So yeah, I mean, call me a sheep--I don't care. I'm talking about, what I mean is when a TV some kind of indication that it's making progress important because even though smart TVs have of brick themselves sometimes. And so, I want That is a pretty generous amount of pivot. And this in a moment, but you can now see some of You can see some of that speaker built-in down going to build a premium sound system onto a coming out the sides. We saw Sony try and do side speakers, and yeah, man. I feel like you just want What do you think, though? Do you a design standpoint? Let us Hey, check it out--right angle on the should do this. I feel like LG but I don't see it often enough. This situations where your wall outlet is directly Thanks to the help from Zeke--shoutout, or at least up. It's about to be running. And, I will point out that the is pretty solid--looks pretty good. A hue to it. Every anti-glare has its side Understand, this is an LG MLA panel go--four minutes and counting. I am so impatient. To be fair, it does say, "Which Down at the bottom--yeah, I noticed that too. I wonder if the red light is to indicate that it's currently disabled--and then the other one is a red light being on when the TV was turned off, Six and a half minutes in--we're still I did want to mention that after we reviewed the that ATSC 3.0 tuner functionality is going that's happened yet, and I suppose we'll find But I did want to just update everybody who may be 3.0 tuning capability is apparently addressable See? Status update lost. And I'm sure that anytime you get seven and a half minutes deep that's because there isn't a single TV I've Roku. Roku OS--there have been moments, you know, cutesy messages as it's doing It's definitely beyond dusk out there. Beyond dusk--I was going to say, a men's fragrance Nit Nerds. Calebrated. Oh man, yes, yeah, oh man, that's it. Look, we're going Ten minutes! I mean, that's real turning off. Uh, it would be smart to mic you up. Oh, that OLED cleanliness! I know from experience that it should Oh, the remote is updating now software updates that might take buttons on the remote--which I totally I am... okay, cool, and we should but I'm going to double-check it's checking for updates. So it made me Also, considering the fact that it literally might--you know--maybe that should go a little This is worth exploring. So, there's a full you know, all the apps and Alexa skills, Amazon account, which can be free. just five streaming apps. Alexa and That's, um, an interesting selection of apps. have Netflix and Prime Video and Hulu there. Sling this is interesting because it's like it's not a going to pick that, but I'll go ahead and sign in. And stop. 15 minutes, 26 seconds, give or take. 15 minutes total setup So for now, we'll just do picture settings it is in normal mode, which I actually I think what we're going to need to do Ambient sensor is on by default, so we're white-balance off just because I need to to bump the luminance just a little bit to is at low. I'm definitely going to put that settings--we're going to leave those at their We're in filmmaker mode, so motion stuff Sound settings for apps and video. All right, stadium, user. Guaranteed, I am going to has stadium ever sounded good on anything? So the sound focus mode has a and I do not know what that means yet. The last thing I want to do for this unboxing I usually pull up this one music video that probably super tired of seeing. But I'm because I know exactly how it should for how good the audio system is on a and how much bass it has--whether it's harsh, I'll dig into how well it pulls of thing for the full review. Right now, is this soundbar kind of built into the So, fun fact: I just recorded the I say there are four top-tier OLEDs, A is among them, right next to the LG G4, Sony A95 L--which technically is not a 2024 TV, Yep. Good start. Hard to tell how deep the bass is going, but some punch and depth to it. Man, the picture is Okay, the answer is yes. Was it worth putting TV? That's probably not the right term absolutely yes. If you're going to in a way where the screen itself is not the best way to do it. At least, I think In the Z95 A, the fidelity of the audio which I'm super, super, super happy any sound coming out of the back Oh yeah, absolutely. Yeah, there are know how effective they're going both sides. Okay, yeah, and top center here is backfill. So I think that And then that lower vent that we showed the subwoofer. So we definitely have to what's here on the front array. speakers at the top to kind of enhance, And like I said, for absolutely worth it. heard, and I would say that it's going to probably that, my friends, is going to be part of the full Because I have done a lot to make it possible of this week so that we don't have an extended review for this TV not too awfully long and I can't wait to have you back against the other top three OLEDs that Definitely charging a premium price point, so But I think it will. Everything I'm seeing so Thanks so much for joining us for this you want to know about this television? Now comments section. I'll be sure to check Don't forget to like and subscribe, and share this be interested in this particular television. I'll here are two other videos I think you