- This single equation spawned four multi-trillion dollar industries and transformed Do you think that most people utility of derivatives? - No. No idea. - But at its core, this from discovering atoms, understanding how heat is transferred, and how to beat the casino at blackjack. So maybe it shouldn't be surprising that some of the best were not veteran traders, but physicists, scientists, In 1988, a mathematics set up the Medallion Investment Fund, and every year for the next 30 years, the Medallion fund delivered than the market average, and not just by a little bit, it returned 66% per year. At that rate of growth, $100 invested in 1988 would be worth $8.4 billion today. This made Jim Simons easily the richest mathematician of all time. But being good at math doesn't guarantee success Just ask Isaac Newton. In 1720 Newton was 77 years old, and he was rich. He had made a lot of money working as a professor at Cambridge for decades, and he had a side hustle as His net worth was PS30,000 the equivalent of $6 million today. Now, to grow his fortune, One of his big bets was Their business was shipping enslaved Africans across the Atlantic. Business was booming and the share price grew rapidly. By April of 1720, the value of So he sold his stock. But the stock price kept going up and by June, Newton bought back in and he kept buying shares When the price started to He bought more shares thinking But there was no rebound, and ultimately he lost When asked why he didn't see &quot;I can calculate the motions but not the madness of people.&quot; So what did Simons get Well, for one thing, Simons was able to stand on the shoulders of giants. The pioneer of using math was Louis Bachelier, born in 1870. Both of his parents died when he was 18 and he had to take over He sold the business a few years later and moved to Paris to study physics, but he needed a job to and he found one at the Bourse, The Paris Stock Exchange. And inside was Newton's in its rawest form. Hundreds of traders screaming and doing deals. The thing that captured were contracts known as options. The earliest known options by the Greek philosopher He believed that the coming a bumper crop of olives. To make money off this idea, he could have purchased olive presses, which if you were right, but he didn't have enough So instead he went to all the and paid them a little bit to rent their presses in the When the harvest came, there were so many olives that the price of renting Thales paid the press owners and then he rented out the and pocketed the difference. Thales had executed the A call option gives you the right, but not the obligation to buy something at a later date for a set price known as the strike price. You can also buy a put option, but not the obligation to sell something at a later date for the strike price. Put options are useful if you expect the price to go down. Call options are useful if For example, let's say the current price of Apple stock is a hundred dollars, but you expect it to go up. You could buy a call option for $10 that gives you the right, to buy Apple stock in one That is the strike price. Just a little side note, American options can be exercised on any date up to the expiry, whereas European options the expiry date. To keep things simple, we'll So if in a year the price of Apple stock has gone up to $130, you can use the option to buy shares for a hundred dollars and for $130. After you take into for the option, you've made a $20 profit. Alternatively, if in a year the stock prices dropped to $70, you just wouldn't use the option and you've lost the $10 you paid for it. So the profit and loss If the stock price ends up you lose what you paid for the option. But if the stock price is then you earn that difference There are at least three One is that it limits your downside. If you had bought the and it went down to $70, you would've lost $30. And in theory, you could stock went to zero. The second benefit is If you had bought the stock and it went up to $130, then your investment grew by 30%. But if you had bought to put up $10. So your profit of $20 is actually a 200% return on investment. On the downside, if you your investment would've whereas with the option you lose all 100%. So with options trading, there's a chance to make much larger profits, but also much bigger losses. The third benefit is you - I think the original was to figure out a way to reduce risk. And then of course, once people decided they wanted to buy insurance, that meant that there are that wanted to sell it or a profit, and that's - So options can be an incredibly useful investing tool, but what Bachelier saw on the especially when it came to Even though they had been no one had found a good way to price them. Traders would just bargain about what the price should be. - Given the option to buy or it seems like a very And so coming up with prices for these rather strange that's plagued a number of economists and business people for centuries. - Now, Bachelier, already thought there had to be to this problem, and he to his advisor Henri Poincare. Looking into the math of finance wasn't really something but to Bachelier's To accurately price an option, first you need to know what happens to stock prices over time. The price of a stock is between buyers and sellers. When more people wanna buy When more people wanna sell But the number of buyers and sellers can be influenced by almost anything, like the weather, politics, new competitors, innovation and so on. So Bachelier realized that to predict all these factors accurately. So the best you can do is assume that at any point in time the stock price is just as likely to go up as down and therefore over the long term, stock prices follow a moving up and down as if their by the flip of a coin. - Randomness is a hallmark By efficient economists typically mean that you can't make money by trading. - The idea that you shouldn't and sell it immediately as the Efficient Market Hypothesis. - The more people try to make money by predicting the stock market and then trading on those predictions, the less predictable those prices are. If you and I could predict the stock market tomorrow, then we would do it. We would start trading today on stocks that we thought were gonna go up tomorrow. Well, if we did that, then they would go up now as we bought more and more of the stock. So the very act of predicting of the future outcomes. And so in a totally efficient market, the prices tomorrow predictive power. If they did, we would've - This is a galton board. It's got rows of pegs and around 6,000 tiny ball bearings that I can pour through the pegs. Now, each time a ball hits a peg, there's a 50 50 chance it So each ball follows a through these pegs, which makes it basically impossible to predict the path of But if I flip this over, is that all the balls together always create a predictable pattern. That is a collection of random walks creates a normal distribution. It's centered around the middle because the number of to get here is the greatest. And the further out you go, the fewer the paths a ball Like if you want to end up to go left, left, left, So there's only one way to get here, but to get into the middle, that a ball could take. Now, Bachelier believed a stock price is just like a ball going Each additional layer of So after a short time, the up or down a little, but after more time, a wider According to Bachelier the of a stock is described by a normal distribution, centered on the current price which spreads out over time. Bachelier realized he had rediscovered the exact equation which describes how heat radiates from to regions of low temperature. This was first discovered by Joseph Fourier back in 1822. So Bachelier called his discovery the radiation of probabilities. Since he was writing about finance, the physics community but the mathematics of the to solve an almost century In 1827, Scottish botanist Robert Brown under the microscope, and he noticed that the particles suspended in water on the microscope slide were moving around randomly. Because he didn't know with the pollen being living material, He tested non-organic particles such as dust from lava and meteorite rock. Again, he saw them moving So Brown discovered that any particles, if they were small enough, exhibited this random movement, which came to be known as Brownian motion. But what caused it remained a mystery. 80 years later in 1905, Einstein figured out the answer. Over the previous couple hundred years, the idea that gases and liquids were made up of molecules became more and more popular. But not everyone was convinced that molecules were real Just that the theory explained The idea led Einstein to hypothesize that Brownian motion is caused by the trillions of molecules from every direction, every instant. Occasionally, more will hit and the particle will momentarily jump. To derive the mathematics, Einstein supposed that as or predict these collisions So at any time we have to is just as likely to move in one direction as an another. So just like stock prices, microscopic particles move like a ball falling down a galton board, the expected location of by a normal distribution, It's why even in completely still water, microscopic particles spread out. This is diffusion. By solving the Brownian motion mystery. Einstein had found definitive evidence that atoms and molecules exist. Of course, he had no idea that Bachelier had five years earlier. By the time Bachelier finished his PhD, he had finally figured to price an option. Remember that with a call option, if the future price of a stock is less than the strike price, then you lose the premium But if the stock price is you pocket that difference and you make a net profit by more than you paid for the option. So the probability that an option buyer makes a profit is the increases by more than which is the green shaded area. And the probability that is just the probability that that the buyer doesn't earn This is the red shaded Multiplying the profit or loss by the probability of each outcome, Bachelier calculated the Now how much should it cost? If the price of an option is too high, no one will wanna buy it. Conversely, if the price is too low, everyone will want to buy it. Bachelier argued that the fair price is what makes the expected return for buyers and sellers equal. Both parties should stand to That was Bachelier's insight into how to accurately price an option. When Bachelier finished his to inventing the random walk and solved the problem that for hundreds of years. But no one noticed. The physicists were uninterested and traders weren't ready. The key thing missing was a Hey, so I'm not sure how with billions of dollars riding on the madness of people, but I have been sleeping just of this video, Eight Sleep. I've recently moved to Australia and it has been really hot, but I've been keeping Eight Sleep Pod. It's a smart mattress cover that can control the and track how well you sleep. You can set the temperature from around 13 degrees Celsius, all the way up to 43 degrees Celsius, and my wife likes it a so it's useful that we can each have our own temperature on And if you don't know well the Pod will learn and optimize it throughout And usually that means getting during the start of the night and then warming up in the morning to help you wake up. You can also have it wake which is really pleasant and it doesn't disturb your partner like an annoying phone sound. You know, I've been and after using the Pod, and I've found that I've and waking up less since using the Pod. So if you wanna try it out for yourself, click on the link in the description and thanks again to Eight Sleep for sponsoring this part of the video. In the 1950s, a young physics graduate, Ed was doing his PhD in Los Angeles, but a few hours drive away, Las Vegas was quickly becoming the gambling capital of the world, and Thorpe saw a way to make a fortune. He headed to Vegas and sat back then, the dealer only so Thorpe could keep a that had been played as he saw them. This allowed him to work out if he had an advantage. He would bet a bigger portion of his funds when the odds were in his favor and less when they weren't. He had invented card counting. This is a remarkable innovation, considering blackjack had been around in various forms for hundreds of years, and for a while this But the casinos got wise to his strategy and they added more decks to reduce the benefit of card counting. So Thorpe took his winnings to what he called the the stock market. He started a hedge fund that would go on to make a 20% return every year for 20 years, the best performance And he did it by transferring at the blackjack table Thorpe pioneered a type of hedging, a way to protect against or compensating transactions. - Thorpe did it mathematically. He looked at the odds and decided that under certain tilt the odds in your favor to be able to make bets. - Suppose Bob sells Alice and let's say the stock has gone up, so now it's in the money for Alice. Well now for every additional Bob will lose $1, but he can eliminate this risk Then if the price goes up, he but gain that dollar back from the stock. And if the stock drops back he sells the stock so he doesn't risk losing This is called dynamic hedging. It means Bob can make a profit with minimal risk from A hedge portfolio pi at any one time will offset the option V with some amount of stock delta. - It basically means I without having to take the And the way to think about it is I have synthetically manufactured an option for you. I've created it out of nothing by doing dynamic trading. Dynamic hedging. - As we saw with Bob's the amount of stock he has to hold, changes depending on current prices. Mathematically, it represents how much the current option price changes with a change in the stock price. But Thorpe wasn't satisfied for pricing options. I mean, for one thing, stock They can increase over time or fall if it isn't. Bachelier's model ignored this. So Thorpe came up with for pricing options, which - I actually figured out what this model was back in the middle of 1967, and I decided that I would and then later I kept it The idea was to basically make a lot of money out of it for everybody. - His strategy was if the according to his model, buy it. If it was overvalued, short sell it, that is bet against it. And that way, more often than not, he would end up on the This lasted until 1973. In that year, Fischer Black and Myron Scholes came up with an equation that changed the industry. Robert Merton independently which was based on the mathematics so he is also credited. - I thought I'd have the field to myself, but unfortunately, Fischer Black and Myron Scholes published the idea and they did a better job because they had very tight mathematics behind their derivation - Like Bachelier, they thought that option to both buyers and sellers, but their approach was totally new. They said if it was possible to construct a risk-free and stocks just like Thorpe was doing with his delta hedging, a fair market, this portfolio than the risk-free rate, what the same money would earn if invested in the safest asset, US treasury bonds. The assumption was that any additional risk, then to receive any extra returns. To describe how stock Black, Scholes, and Merton of Bachelier's model just like Thorpe. This says that at any time to move randomly, plus a general trend By combining these two equations, came up with the most It relates the price of any stocks, bonds, you name it. The same year they the Chicago Board Options Why is that equation so important? Like for finance, how - Well, because when you solve that partial differential equation, you get an explicit formula as a function of a bunch And for the very first time, you now have an explicit expression where you plug in the parameters and out pops this number so that people can actually - This led to one of the of an academic idea in all - Within just a couple of years, the Black Scholes formula was for Wall Street for trading options. The exchange traded and it's now a multi-trillion the volume in this roughly every five years. So this is the financial There are other businesses that have grown just as quickly, like credit default swaps market, the OTC derivatives market, the securitized debt market. All of these are multi-trillion that in one form or another make use of the idea of Black Scholes Merton option pricing. - This opened up a whole new and not just for hedge funds. Nowadays, pretty much every and even individual investors use options to hedge against their own specific risks. Suppose you're running an airline and you're worried that an would eat into your profits. Well, using the Black there's a way to accurately and efficiently hedge that risk. You price an option to the price of oil, and if oil prices go up, and that will help compensate of fuel you have to pay. So Black Scholes Merton but it can also provide leverage. - An ongoing battle and hedge fund short sellers that have bet against the stock, GameStop shares, have now risen some 700%. - Well, GameStop is a for all sorts of reasons, but options figured because a small cadre of users on this Reddit sub-channel decided that the hedge fund managers that were shorting the stock and betting that the company needed to be punished. And so they bought to try to drive up price. Turns out that buying because with a dollar's worth of cash, you can buy a dollar's worth of stock, but with a dollar's worth that affected many more than perhaps in some cases $10 or $20 worth of stock for a And so there's natural leverage embedded in these securities. And so the combination and the options caused the And what that did was to cause to lose a lot of money quickly. - How big is this market for derivatives? How big is this whole area that kind of comes out of Black Scholes Merton? - There are estimates of how and first, let's be clear A derivative is a financial from another financial security. So an option is an In general, the size of is the on the order of several hundred trillion dollars. - How does that compare to the size of the underlying - It's multiples of the - I just have to interrupt that you have more money that are based on the thing - That's right. - So tell me how that makes any sense. - Because what options allow you to do is to take the underlying thing and turn it into 5, 10, 20, 50 things. So these pieces of paper that we call options and derivatives, they basically allow us to create many, many different versions of versions that individuals because of their own - Does this make the markets and the global economy more stable, or less stable, or no effect? - All three. So it turns out these markets are a very and therefore stability. During abnormal times, by that I mean when there are all of these securities typically down, and when they go down together, that creates a really big market crash. So in those circumstances, derivatives markets can of market dislocations. - In 1997, Merton and Scholes were awarded the Black was acknowledged but unfortunately he had passed away just two years earlier. - We were gonna make a but now Black and Shoals what the secret is. - With the option pricing formula now out for everyone to see hedge funds would need to find market inefficiencies. Enter Jim Simons. Before Simons had any he was a mathematician. His work on Riemann geometry of mathematics and physics, quantum field theory, and Chern Simon's theory laid the for string theory. In 1976, the American Mathematical with the Oswald Veblen Prize in geometry. But at the top of his academic for a new challenge. When he founded Renaissance his strategy was to use machine learning to find patterns in the stock market. Patterns provide - The real thing was to gather and we had to get it by we went down to the Federal Reserve and copied interest rate 'cause it didn't exist on computers. - His rationale was that the for anyone to be able to make But Simons had worked for the US Institute for Defense Analysis during the Cold War, by extracting patterns Simons was convinced that a similar approach He then used his academic of the best scientists he could find. - What was your employment criteria then? If they knew nothing about finance, what were you looking for in them? Someone with a PhD in physics and had written a few good papers and was obviously a or in mathematics or in statistics. Someone who had done - It's not surprising that mathematicians and physicists are involved in this field. First of all, finance pays a being an assistant And for a number of of option pricing is equally that they're doing in their professions. - One of these was Leonard Baum, a pioneer of Hidden Markov models. Just as Einstein realized that although we can't directly observe atoms, we can infer their existence through their effect on pollen grains, Hidden Markov models aim to find factors that are not directly observable, but do have an effect And soon after that, Renaissance launched their now-famous Medallion fund. Using hidden Markov models and other data driven strategies, The Medallion fund became investment fund of all time. This led Bradford Cornell Medallion Fund: The to conclude that maybe the itself is wrong. - In 1988, I published a paper testing it, the US Stock Market, and what I found was that You can actually reject And so there are predictabilities in the stock market. - So it's possible to beat the - It's possible to beat the the right models, the right training, the resources, the computational power, and so on and so forth, yes. - The people who have found the patterns in the stock market, and the randomness for that matter, have often been physicists but their impact has gone By modeling market dynamics, they've provided new insight into risk and opened up whole new markets. They've determined what the accurate price of derivatives should be, and in doing so, they have helped eliminate Ironically, if we are ever able to discover all the patterns knowing what they are will Then we will finally have where all price movements