Hello and welcome back. I'm Joseph Today we're learning a new song &quot;Who's That?&quot;. This song is about someone who hears a tap at the window, and then a knock at the door. Did you hear that? I wonder who that was. Who's that tapping at the window? Who's I am tapping at the window. I am knocking at the door. Croak Frog! It's you! Come on in. Thank you Mr. Hoffman. How about I just place you right up here Okay. Now, can you help me figure out the first two Here they are: What would that be in solfege? If you said DO SO, You are correct. Let's try and draw that on the grand staff. To draw DO SO since we're in the C major pentascale today, we'll put DO on middle C here. DO And then SO will be up here on the G line. SO Can you Ready, go. DO SO Now let's say the letter names. Ready, go. C G All right, the next part of &quot;Who's RE RE MI MI RE DO Can you do that with me? Doing hand signs too? Ready, go. RE RE MI MI RE DO Now let's take a look at that pattern on the staff. Okay now, to add a RE, Since DO is on C, RE will be here on D. So we need to add RE RE, and then MI is a step above, so we'll come up to this line here. MI MI and then RE. We step down to DO, so we'll need one more ledger line to end on DO. So this part will sound like this: RE RE MI MI RE DO Can you point and Ready, go: RE RE MI MI RE DO Good! Now let's say the letter names. Since this is a step above C, what If you said D you're correct. Let's sing the letters D D E E D C Now, so far we have drawn: Who's that tapping at the window? Let's figure out how the next part is different. We have: Who's that Aha. Do you hear that something's different We have: knocking at the door? What note is that in solfege? It's a DO, and we skipped RE this time. So, here in the song, we'll go: RE RE, step up to MI MI, then skip down to DO. Okay, with your right hand in the air let's practice moving our fingers for &quot;Who's That?&quot;. Starting with DO SO, your turn. Good, now we're going to go up to RE and RE RE MI MI, your turn. After we do that, then we Now let's put those two patterns together. RE RE MI MI RE DO, your turn. Good. Then the next phrase is very DO SO, your turn. Good, Your turn. Good, so that time instead of stepping down to DO. All right, for &quot;Who's That?&quot; we're going to use both hands. Our right hand will ask the questions, then the left hand is going to answer. So let's start with the right But, our right hand will begin My turn: Who's that, your turn. Then we'll have: RE RE MI MI RE DO, your turn. Good, then the right hand asks the next Who's that, your turn. Good, then: knocking at the door, your turn. Good, and remember, that pattern goes RE RE MI MI DO, your turn. Good, now the left hand will answer those questions. Starting with the left hand: I am, your turn. Good. tapping at the window, your turn. I am, your turn. knocking at the door, your turn. Now, press pause and practice the whole song. Right hand asking questions, and the left Let's check out the sheet music for Just take a glance at this, and tell me what you notice. You might notice our treble clefs here. So we've got a treble staff, another treble staff, usually the right hand handles any of the notes in the treble staff. Down here, you might have noticed we switched to a bass clef for this bass staff which is for the left hand to play. Did you notice that sometimes we have these stems going down. The reason for that is, if the note head ever goes above this middle line, or on the middle line or higher, the stems go down, and that's just so they don't So, remember stems can go up or down in music. It doesn't change anything. Now, it would be very helpful for you to have your own copy of this sheet music for this next part of the lesson. So, if you haven't already, download the sheet music from our website using the button or link you see below. What I'd like you to do in your own printed music, and you can pause the but on your own I'd like you to pause up here on these two treble staffs. and just as a and I'd like you to draw a square around all the middle C's that you find. Okay? Here are all the middle C's on these If it's not, that's okay. Just press pause And I said draw a square, I know mine kind of looks more like a rectangle. So, we'll not be too picky about the shape, Now, let's practice the Remember, that if a note head is empty like this Now, half note gets 2 beats, so I'm two heart shapes over this note to remind us that this note and same with this half note. it gets 2 beats. TWO-OO TWO-OO Try pointing to this note and saying that with me, go: TWO-OO TWO-OO I say TWO-OO to remind us for 2 beats, and then two eighth notes both can fit in a single beat. So this is TI-TI, and then this also equals 1 beat: TI-TI and then a quarter note like this gets one beat: TA-TA Like this: If you'd like to, you can pause or you can just follow along with me. What we're going to do now is speak the rhythm of this first line together, and we'll touch the sheet music one time. You can just point on your and we'll say the rhythm words like this: TWO-OO TWO-OO TI-TI TI-TI TA TA Now try it with me. Point and say the rhythm words, go: TWO-OO TWO-OO TI-TI TI-TI TA TA Now 'Who's that tapping at the window?' Try it with me, go: 'Who's that tapping at the window?' A common mistake in music is Remember to give those notes both beats. You don't want: 'Who's that'. It's 'Who's that tapping'. Those 2 beats are really Now, let's come down here to these bass and I want to hunt for bass C's. Remember that bass C from the bottom there's space number one, here's space number two. That is bass C. So, now I'd like you to pause the video, and in your own music, draw a triangle around all of the bass C's that you can find on these two staves. So pause the video, hunt for bass C's, draw a triangle, Here are all the bass C's. Hopefully this is what you found as well. If not, no problem. Pause the video, erase, and Alright, now I'd like to demonstrate how practice track, which is available for This is a great way to have fun reviewing &quot;Who's You'll just place right hand and left hand in and when the track starts, listen for 4 clicks. That will be your cue to start. Alright, we're going to try to play &quot;Who's That?&quot; with the Place right and left hand in position, and when it starts, Here goes. 1 2 3 4 Who's that tapping at the window? Who's that knocking at the door? Left hand. I am tapping at the window. I am knocking at the door. Great job learning &quot;Who's That?&quot; today. I hope you'll practice this song every day along with other songs and finger power For an extra challenge, try transposing &quot;Who's And as always, you can get the sheet music and mp3 as part of the complete materials for Unit 2. Huh? Frog, was that you? No. No? Well, I better go see who that is. Thanks for watching. See you next time! Did you hear someone at the door? Let's see who it is. It's our animal friends! Hey guys, come on in! Just be sure to wipe your feet, uh, claws and hooves at the door!