Translator: Rhonda Jacobs What if I told you that breakfast was wrong? (Laughter) What if I told you it is more important Perhaps much of the nutritional dogma is now outdated, like snacking all day long Over the next few minutes, what I believe to be the most profoundly as it pertains to health and aging. Over the last 20 years, as a nurse practitioner I've seen tremendous shifts, tremendous shifts in health and wellness: escalating rates of obesity, diabetes many of which are preventable. The choices we make in terms of nutrition more than most of us realize. During my training as a nurse practitioner many years ago, the dominant nutritional paradigm I've found this for most, if not all, The concept of &quot;calories-in, Many of the things that I work with, really focus on the connection and how that impacts healthy aging and weight gain. I do not believe, nor do I support, that women have to accept weight gain The National Health which looks at data in terms of their nutrition compares what went on in the 1970s, where most Americans and no snacks; fast forward to today, most of what we are doing as Americans and snacking all day long. Really. And so one of the things when healthcare providers that we need to eat all day long - it's wrong. Eating all day long overtaxes It overtaxes it so much And if it cannot work properly, or the nutrients in that food. Another really important distinction or how frequently we're eating, is the debate over sugar burners And when we're talking about that, a sugar burner is someone and taps into glucose which is incredibly inefficient. If you recognize these individuals: They are frequently hungry. They often get hangry. They have - yes - significant dips They struggle more with fat loss, because insulin levels are high. Insulin is that fat-storing hormone. So if levels remain high, we have more inflammation; and we struggle more with weight gain. In sharp contrast to this are fat burners. They tap into fat stores for energy; they have sustained energy; they are much more clear cognitively; they don't get hangry; it's easier for them to lose weight because they tap into those fat stores; they sleep better; So meal timing and how frequently Absolutely crucial. Let's talk about some statistics and healthy aging. So we know two-thirds of women and more than half are obese. How do we proactively without quick fixes? It makes me want to cry when my female patients than work on changing their diet, more exercise, other lifestyle changes. Women in their 50s and 60s Per year. That's average. And some of this is attributable women having less lean muscle mass sleep disturbances and mood disorders. However, there are strategies So folks, I want you to save your money on potions and powders and supplements I've got a better idea. And I'm going to tell you about it. I've got a better idea. There are lots of strategies but none more powerful Intermittent fasting as well as many other benefits But it also can improve and self-esteem. And for many women, this permits them - it's the magic bullet that allows them Really powerful. And the really cool thing is it's free, it's flexible and it's simple. You take nothing else away. Free. Flexible. Simple. So let's talk about intermittent fasting. It is the absence of food You exist either in a fed I'm sure for many of you, So when you eat, insulin to move sugar into the cells. We store the bulk of our sugar But when we exceed those storage sites, we store it as fat. When we're fasted, insulin levels are low and we can tap into fat stores for energy. Free. Flexible. Simple. And so, when we're talking about If you skip breakfast - If you skip breakfast in the morning, you can reduce your caloric intake And the typical time frame is a 16:8. Sixteen hours a day fasted I know that seems but I'll give you some strategies So, the 20-40 percent means that you can fuel fat loss. So what are some of the benefits fat loss and especially visceral fat around our major organs? We know that it improves mental clarity We know that it spikes which helps us with lean muscle mass. We know that it induces I will speak more about this in a second. But this is spring cleaning for the cells. It is only evoked when we are fasted. Autophagy. We know that it lowers insulin levels, blood pressure, improves our cholesterol profile. And we know that it can reduce your risk and Alzheimer's disease, If, for no other reason, As wonderful a strategy as this is, I'm going to talk briefly about the individuals First and foremost, or you have difficult-to-control diabetes; if you are a child, an adolescent might not be the best strategy; if you are pregnant; if you have chronic heart issues, not the best strategy. If you have a history whether it is anorexia, might not be the best strategy And last but not least, you're frail or you've recently been in the hospital I'm not currently intermittent fasting. Now, everyone always asks, Well, when you're fasting, but you can absolutely consume things They will not break your fast. But when you're ready to eat, Now, I would be remiss that are going to be more when you're ready to break your fast. So I want you to focus That's what your body needs, So I want you to purchase the best quality Ideally, organic or pastured meat, Healthy fats - so crucial - helpful for building healthy hormones and also really important for satiety - make us happy. I'm not part of the anti-fat brigade. Really, really important. Twenty years ago, I might but now we know better. So I want you to focus coconut oil, grass-fed butter and nuts - Unprocessed carbohydrates. Ladies, absolutely crucial, if you're in perimenopause, or you're in menopause, quality and quantity are crucial. So I want you to consume things green leafy vegetables, squash, as opposed to bread and pasta. Cautionary tale: I want you By that I mean, I want you because they can offset And lastly, keep yourself well hydrated. Now, I want to make sure that I briefly touch on for how you would go about Generally, I have my ladies And they can slowly increase until they've reached that 16 hour mark. Again, you want to keep yourself You can also have plain coffee or tea. In addition to that, you want to ensure before you determine And if you have chronic health conditions, I want to make sure you discuss it Really important. And recognize it may take to really see the full benefits The biggest pain point I have a fantastic strategy but I don't want you to buy into or the hottest weight loss I want you to think about the fact that you can try at home, discuss with your healthcare I really feel so passionately about this because it's something that all of us Thank you. (Applause)