- [Narrator] After the with 1970's &quot;Paranoid&quot; which had reached number one in the UK, Black Sabbath had been put on to support the album. Playing a stint in Australia, as well as all of Europe, Yet their label, Vertigo, wanting a quick follow of the sales and buzz from &quot;Paranoid&quot;, put the tired overwork in the first part of 1971, to record what would be arguably their heaviest album (rock music) It's July 17th, 1970 and Black Sabbath had just released their single &quot;Paranoid&quot;, the title track from their upcoming album. This is only the band's second single. The first was &quot;Evil Woman&quot;, off their self-titled debut album. Evil woman Don't you play your games with me Not a song the band For one, it wasn't even their own. &quot;Evil Woman&quot; was instead a top 20 song by the obscure American group Crow and Sabbath felt like they their throwaway cover by management and all for nothing, since it resulted in zero Ironically, &quot;Paranoid&quot; was considered a throwaway song as well. Bassist Geezer Butler explained. &quot;The song &quot;Paranoid&quot; was We basically needed a three and Tony came up with the riff. I quickly did the lyrics and Ozzy was reading It took 20 to 25 minutes But this time, unlike &quot;Evil Woman&quot;, &quot;Paranoid&quot; would become a smash hit and generate good and (rock music) Behind the scenes, the band had been lured into believing that Don Patrick Meehan and his henchman Wilf Pine would elevate them to worldwide success while their local promoter Jim Simpson did not have what it took. Of course, &quot;Paranoid&quot; had already made Black Sabbath a worldwide sensation. Still, the band struggled with self-doubt and the perception that a would take them into the big leagues was too good a temptation to pass up. Black Sabbath would get what they wanted, but it would come at a cost that they would pay for (rock music) On September 4th, 1970, just 14 days before the &quot;Paranoid&quot; Jim Simpson was served papers stating his services And the band was now managed by Meehan and his company Worldwide Artist. Although this came as a huge blow to the kind hearted Simpson, he would later take it in stride after winning this case stating, &quot;I was with Sabbath (rock music) After the September 18th and only six months released in February, 1970, Meehan wasted no time pushing by getting them a spot British music TV show, &quot;Top Of The Pops.&quot; On Thursday, September 24th, 1970, Black Sabbath pantomimed &quot;Paranoid&quot; into millions of homes across the UK. The appearance not only helped the song move up the UK charts to but it also helped the band on the UK album chart. Dethroning Simon and Garfunkel's popular album &quot;Bridge In October of 1970, Mark about Sabbath becoming Sudden mainstream popularity On the one hand, it was of all their hard work. But on the other hand, pop fans were turning up at their shows, which made it seem like Although the group initially it ultimately made them uncomfortable. Guitarist Tony Iommi recalled, &quot;Top Of The Pops attracted a We weren't that type of band. It felt wrong to us.&quot; Lead singer Ozzy Osborne said, &quot;the kids who came out were okay, but it wasn't what we Bubblegum bands come and go. We were attracting for the minute, mostly women. And then of course, they We didn't wanna attract We wanted fans who were genuine.&quot; Even one of their early against the Sab Four It's National Radio One - John Peel was a DJ on where he hosted a show called &quot;Top Gear.&quot; In one of his regular known as the &quot;Peel Sessions&quot;, he would have an artist and record up to four songs live. This was a powerful way to promote a band. And often the first many performers achieved. As early as 1969 and long before today's John Peel was known as an influencer. Peel first tried to sign after seeing them play but the band turned him down. Then on November 11th, Peel gave Sabbath their first opportunity They recorded four songs; &quot;Black Sabbath&quot; &quot;Walpurgis&quot; &quot;War Pigs&quot; with alternative lyrics. &quot;Fairies Wear Boots&quot; and &quot;Devil's Island, later renamed, &quot;Sleeping The recording was broadcast No copies of the recording or have been proven to still exist. But in 1971, after Sabbath Peel said, &quot;Black Sabbath will sell because it sounds like something else. You get a process where is a watered-down version In another statement referring Deep Purple and Emerson, &quot;Those bands have lost the and are basically going In response. Iommi said, &quot;That's one we really can't understand. We got on really well but something seems to have upset him. We were really pleased - Oh God, please help me. Oh, no. - [Narrator] According to Tony, the band had no say in &quot;The single was just one by the recording company it would sell and was We don't specifically record singles and the decision to release them rests with the record company. But now we have got that we sold out for It's something of an but there won't be a follow up single.&quot; The backlash from fair weathered fans for selling out was one thing, far more concerning was public perception that the members of Black and practitioners of black magic. This PR nightmare had been changed their name from And even though the song Black Sabbath was written as an the band could not shake being tagged as dark and mystical cultists. In countless interviews, the that they did not practice black Yet, they continued to and attention from asking them to perform at black masses. While the mystique brought them attention from those on the fringe, it also kept them from the kind of success enjoyed by bands like Led Zeppelin. Clear from interviews in early 1970, the band had grown about the occult as it was In March, 1970, Ozzy made &quot;You're going to ask about anticipating the line of questioning. &quot;It's rubbish. Geezer wrote a song called Black Sabbath. And at the time we were called Earth, but we were constantly being confused with another group with a similar name. And so we changed it to Black Sabbath. (rock music) Sabbath was about to embark the holy grail for any up and coming European band at the time. But instead of excited anticipation, the band was more afraid that they had gained in the UK would follow them over to the states, uncomfortably aware of how an easy rider country. They had good reason for concern, the trial of Charles after the brutal sleighing was in the news almost daily. Geezer said, &quot;We just hope we don't get all the black magic confusion over there. We are frightened by the We don't want anything to do We will just be going over there as a British hard rock band. Tony added, &quot;We might change so we don't have any trouble. We were never into black magic. The lyrics were chosen to The kids are always and they often create The music of Black Sabbath Everybody thinks we're but we just picked the I agree some of the numbers on the LP are about supernatural things, but that's as far as it goes.&quot; But it wasn't just their that pushed the critics Black Sabbath was often confused with another British a band who leaned hard into the satanic and black magic imagery of being the band for devil worshipers. During one of the tours, Black Widow has secured wife of England's chief to appear in their stage a tormented girl from the 18th century who was driven insane Maxine would end up and simulate sex with Ironically, their biggest song was called &quot;Come To The Sabbath.&quot; but there was another between the two bands. Black Sabbath's new had previously managed Black Widow and produced their last Ozzy said, &quot;a lot of people because of this black magic thing, but it has gotten all out of proportion. At one time, we got so It was unbelievable. We're two completely different bands in music and everything.&quot; Black Sabbath's confusion with Black Widow got so bad that the changing their name again. But the Meehan's had convinced Sabbath that Black Widow would Ironically, when Black Widow did back down on the occult (rock music) Being associated with the devil never went away for black Sabbath or even Ozzy as a solo artist. But to be fair, Sabbath and to their advantage as the years rolled on. And it's also fair to say Vertigo and manager Jim was seen as a powerful or create the next big Long hair no longer shot, bright and patterned drug use no longer shot. So the occult, perhaps the was willingly deployed. Simpson later admitted that he did make up stories for shock value. Vertigo didn't help things by releasing the first or having an inverted cross Although the second album saw satanic preoccupations &quot;Paranoid&quot; was still an album In the process of backpedaling the band refused to celebrate the witch's Sabbath at Stone Hinge. This rejection allegedly caused Alex Sander's, head witch in England to cast a spell on Sabbath. This story, which would over the coming years would become part of the Sabbath mythology the awkward push, pull that existed between the band and their Uncertain what to expect in the US, the band decided to test the with a small exploratory (rock music) Sabbath had looked at coming but the reasons why Some statements indicate it with college students Part of this theory came from had canceled the US tour after the Fillmore East and West shut down for the summer of 1970, due to the possibilities of violence. In reality, neither Fillmore Club ever closed during this time. Another theory, was that in early 1970, Sabbath was in talks about hiring him as a manager. Still, since they hadn't they needed first to ditch Simpson, and then they could to the land of the yanks. The final theory, as was at the same time in July as Sabbath was planning the Charles Manson trial began and worried about Sabbath's and how audiences might respond, the record company, Warner Brothers may have squashed the whole outing. Now with the Meehan firmly in place as their managers and &quot;Paranoid&quot; tearing it was time to go spread Patrick Meehan Senior stayed in the office and mainly served as an overseer while Patrick Meehan Junior's (rock music) The band touched down at JFK airport on Wednesday, October 28th, 1970. It was the first time that on American soil and they didn't care that it was a low budget tour since they were playing small gigs on the east and west coast. According to Iommi, one of was haul their entire PA system instead of renting one in the US, not realizing the US had a Sabbath promptly blew out the power in the first place they played. With a ticket price of a $1.50 to $2.50, the band played their first gig at Glassboro State College This contradicts Ozzy where they state that the first gig was Unganos in New York. But the proof of this newspaper ad shows they did not play Unganos until three days after the Glassboro gig. Their tour promoter, Rick Green was in fact their first gig in the US. He said, &quot;The group didn't until 11:30 PM for an 8:00 PM concert. And didn't take the stage until 1:00 AM. A minute into the first song, they blew out the power to But about 10 minutes later, They started playing again, not only the power in the gym, but the campus and most of the You can also see the promotional flyer Green's little sister This flyer would later be sold at Christie's Auction in 2007. The last bit of proof is showing Glassboro as the first Sabbath concert on US soil. Sabbath would play in 10 for the next five weeks. According to one music critic, they blew headliner, Rod Stewart and the faces off the Fillmore East Stage. According to Tony, &quot;When we went on, the crowd Then Rod Stewart came on and the crowd began throwing things at him. It was just incredible. And from then on, we became like the (rock music) Originally they were supposed at the Infamous Whiskey A But when Cooper canceled, Sabbath went from opener to headliner for their five dates with (rock music) At the Fillmore West, they with future Eagles guitarist Joe Walsh and his band, The James Gang. Iommi said, &quot;We did the Fillmore West in San Francisco with them. And Joe Walsh was smoking Right before the gig, Geezer said, 'I'll just have a puff of that.' Ozzy joined them. They thought they were But maybe the most significant was still relatively unknown at the time, that came on their last date when they played in Ashbury, New Jersey, their opening act was the Steel Mill band, featuring a young Bruce Springsteen. Overall, the exploratory Just as America loved Sabbath, Ozzy said, &quot;It's every to play the states.&quot; Coming from Birmingham where it was magic to us.&quot; Before we move on, I'd Black Sabbath rumor that And even Tony Iommi got it Anton LaVey, the very real never held a parade in What did happen, was there where the record company had a float promoting Black Sabbath. A man resembling Anton but was it him? If you look at the video, but there is no further LaVey doesn't mention it and has been outspoken in his All the video shows is a single Black Sabbath float, paid for presumably by Warner Brothers. (guitar riffing) At the end of November, 1970, the band returned to England a mini tour of Europe from December 5th in Liverpool, England, to December 19th in Paris They would have 12 days to rest before starting to record 1970 was a whirlwind of They started the year as virtual unknowns and by the end, they had hated by critics, but loved by fans. From this point forward, as the fathers of heavy metal, even though they were (rock music) Five decades later, it's just how frantic the pace was for the most successful bands in the late 60's and early 70's. Whereas, acts these days record an album every three or four years, Sabbath was picking at two albums every 12 As a result, they were their next record when as the band struggled to work around their frantic touring schedule, &quot;Master of Reality&quot; would that was recorded piecemeal rather than in a concentrated On the very first day of 1971, Black Sabbath entered on what would be one heavy records of all time. The band went to Island Studios and worked with for the last time, the same duo who pushed the sliders on the first two records, and engineer, Tom Allom. Tom would end up being the In addition to having a bit they also went from having to record on, to a true which meant they could do more overdubs and experiment with their sounds. (rock music) Amongst the handful of tracks &quot;After Forever&quot; and &quot;Into The Void.&quot; Although the latter, was by it's working title &quot;Spanish Sid.&quot; Both songs were played during in January and during their although &quot;Spanish Sid&quot;/&quot;Into The void&quot; was still being lyrically refined. Arguably, the most bizarre during that session at the band called &quot;Weevil Woman '71.&quot; (rock music) Presumably, a mocking The song they'd been forced to At the same time the band Their album &quot;Paranoid&quot; came When &quot;Paranoid&quot; was released in the UK on September 18th, 1970, their debut album was a half million copies in the first month, Warner Brothers decided of their second album. &quot;Paranoid&quot; would reach and quickly go platinum. Then on January 27th, with multiple stops to to headline at the my Myponga this would be the first and the first time they would headline a multi-day music festival. Next, they had intended to but were denied entry due to Ozzy for burglary and Tony It was rumored they ran in April of '72, when they As it would turn out, Black until November, 1980 while With Japan out of the picture, they had a few extra before another 40 hour where they played two dates At the time, Sabbath was ordinary lads from Aston who were all for one and one for all. And the band was the number one priority. Despite their jet lag and without stopping they flew from Amsterdam to England and traveled straight to resume work on their next album. (upbeat rocK music) But time in the studio It was time to fly back to the US and officially tour for Unlike the us tour just two months ago, this time they would headline most dates. The exception being Grand Funk Now, they would be playing to 15,000 Black Sabbath fans nightly, sometimes playing two shows a night. On this North American trip, they would cross the border twice for the first time to play in Canada. Future mega bands like Fleetwood Mack and the J Isles Band opened. Only the year before, for playing the Bankland's Youth Club. And only six months before that, at the same club they from Earth to Black Sabbath. On the second night of they played an uncommon Union Catholic High School in The student body contacted asking if Sabbath would Tired of the usual dull the students at Union a novel approach to fundraising. It first started with The Who followed by other notable Blood, Sweat And Tears and Cream. Black Sabbath would be the (rock music) One firsthand account said, &quot;As the concert started, from our left, then froze mid stage, facing him right up front where rows of seated priests and I still remember the He then shrugged his shoulders and began. Apparently the nuns and priests had commandeered the first two rows. The Marsist Brother who was took one look at Ozzy, wearing a big cross and and turned to a member of &quot;Finally, you booked a Christian band.&quot; No one had the heart The sold out concert with an would gross over $8,803.50. That's over $62,222. Black Sabbath would go down as in all of Union Catholic High Sabbath's generosity to help raise money for charity was not a one off. On the same tour a few weeks later, they would play another benefit the St. Matthew's Episcopal sponsored Sabbath on March 9th. Profits for the two shows and inner city missions and local bands got to This is just one of the reasons Sabbath is considered (rock music) The US tour lasted from February And when they returned to the boys headed back into the studio for a quick couple of on April 14th for a 10 Then on April 26th, they triumphantly at the Royal Albert Hall, where just four months earlier, the hall had refused to let them play in fear of fan violence. At this show, they were awarded their gold records for &quot;Paranoid.&quot; Around this time, 21 that his then girlfriend was pregnant with their first child. Ozzy had met Thelma Riley, at the Rum Runner Bar in Birmingham. That's where Thelma worked when she wasn't teaching. After living together for a few months, Ozzy decided the proper before the baby arrived. So in July, 1971, Ozzy and at the Registry Office. Some said that they were but that could not have happened in Rochester, New York on that day. Months later, Ozzy would adopt Elliot Kingsley from a previous marriage. Among Thelma's various talents, she was a gifted seamstress and designed all of the stage outfits Ozzy wore on tour throughout the 70's. The following year on January 20th, 1972, they would welcome Jessica In 1975, Ozzy's second child with Thelma, Lewis was born. Now I'm sorry For the things I've done Ozzy would later admit to and husband to his first family. Adultery, spousal abuse, animal Ozzy said years later, &quot;Thelma And I really regret that. If there's one thing it's that I could take it all back, but of course you could of any kind and I'll take Ozzy and Thelma divorced in 1982, and in the same year he married with whom he had been having an affair. (rock music) There are various accounts finished recording &quot;Master Of Reality&quot;, but most reports point as the band prepared for the studio, Ozzy warned the press that the Telling one reporter that the &quot;The heaviest we've done. It's going to be heavier than before because that's what people want. I don't know whether Led or not with their third album, but personally I think a lot If we ever decide to go we would do it gradually. But at the moment people want heavy music. The heavier the better.&quot; Tony Iommi said that musically, master of reality was a I think all would agree of how they tune their instruments, his statement is accurate. There are three songs where they all turn their These are &quot;Children Of The Grave&quot;, &quot;Lord Of This World&quot; and &quot;Into The Void.&quot; Without getting too deep This means they tuned lower than most, if not This created a uniquely that no one else had. In another interview, Tony stated, &quot;It was all part of an experiment, tuning down together for Back then all the other bands had rhythm guitarists or keyboards, but we made do with guitar, So we tried to make them Tuning down just seemed I think I was the first one to do that.&quot; As far as we can tell, Tony is right. Not only was he the first one but he also started a way that continues to this very day. This tuning down approach helped create many music sub genres, including the grunge sound of the 90's, Djent, which is a sub genre of heavy metal characterized by low guitar tunings. Stoner rock, Nu metal and many more. So not only was &quot;Master Of Reality&quot; a classic hard rock album, It was an album that The album title &quot;Master Of Who said, &quot;When you do an album, you've got the master tapes. So it was the master of the album and all the lyrics were about reality.&quot; So at the time it made sense about the reality of their love for the devil's lettuce, marijuana. - This is grass. - You mean marijuana? - Yeah. All right now (Tony coughing) - [Narrator] &quot;Sweet that moves from the left as it becomes more distorted The cough comes from Tony. Having just taken a toke on a joint given to him by Ozzy. When handed the joint, Tony was working on a separate acoustic for the beginning of As the lyrics are essentially The cough sets up not only but also the tempo. (rock music) This love song for bud was almost a love song for someone else. An earlier version of the lyrics and included the line such as I want you baby To be my wife To love and cherish For the rest of my life The love song tone remained, but instead of the subject being a person, it became about the jazz cabbage after Geezer returned from Ireland. Geezer said, &quot;I'd just and they had these cigarettes which you could only get in the Ireland. And we were going, 'what I took out this cigarette it's got on the lid, 'The And I was like, 'Ah, Sweet Leaf.'&quot; We hate to contradict Geezer's memory, but our research shows that actually said &quot;The best Not &quot;The sweetest leaf you can buy.&quot; And there was no mention of but there was another that was manufactured outta Liverpool and had the exact tagline of &quot;Sweet Leaf.&quot; Perhaps Geezer's mind conflated the two. If you think we got it wrong, let us know in the comments below. (rock music) Some have insinuated that was taken from Frank Zappa and the Mothers Of Invention's (rock music) Although Geezer was a big fan of Zappa, I think it's a Meehan What isn't a coincidence of notes, is the use of the rift &quot;Rhymin &amp; Stealin.&quot; In that song, the main with a loop of a drum sample from Led Zeppelin's The biggest song to ever give a tip of the hat to &quot;Sweet Leaf&quot; was the ending music passage of The Red Hot Chili Pepper's (&quot;Give It Away&quot; by Red Hot Chili Peppers.) Chilli Pepper's guitarist, John Frusciante is a known Sabbath fan and intentionally wanted to emulate the sounds of &quot;Master Of Reality. He said, &quot;The template was to have an album like Black where the guitars are in stereo, hard left, hard right and it's and sounds as thick as you'd (rock music) If you have early copies of of the first four albums, you have probably but no actual additional songs. Those are ghost titles, Warner Brother bands needed to give the due to their publishing agreement. So for Black Sabbath to feature those additional titles to various sections of songs, amongst rock bands of the era. After &quot;Forever's Floating&quot; was given one of those (ominous music) (rock music) Where &quot;Sweet Leaf&quot; was light in topic, &quot;After Forever&quot; is like a A devout Catholic who once Geezer Butler wrote the partly to refute the band's satanic image. Yet as explicitly pro this fact alluded those or look beyond the dark sounding music. Ironically, despite the the band still managed to get into trouble with complaints being Would you like to see the Pope On the end of a rope Do you think he's a fool Taken of course, out of Geezer said, &quot;That song just says that once you get to the end are you going to be Have you lived a good life?&quot; Geezer also once put it this way. &quot;We were getting accused the whole Satan thing and everything. And 'After Forever' is that were following us around and all the so-called Jesus freaks. So as a response to them, it raises the question, when you're on your God or the devil?&quot; - Who are you? - We're the band Sanctified. We play metal and punk, but with lyrics that - Yeah, we proved that Christian music can be tough and hardcore. - Yeah, you guys are real hardcore. - You bet your gosh darn rear end we are. - Say it down from Heaven! The spirit and glory! (rock music) - [Narrator] &quot;After Christian metal song ever written. It would be covered years later by the all Christian metal band &quot;Stryper&quot; with all the original lyrics intact. More influentially, it would in the heavy metal genre biblical themes that with countless bands but comes As this was not a topic or even the acid rock I think it was true It was people like you That crucified Christ - Unfortunately, even positive words can have a negative effect Apparently, serial killer would use Sabbath lyrics Ozzy said, &quot;You remember Son of Sam who was killing all the chicks? When they got into his apartment, he supposedly had the written on his wall. I thought, 'Fuck me', The way people misinterpret lyrics would continue to be an issue &quot;Embryo&quot; is a 28 second that gives birth to This two stream medieval jaunt is Tony letting you catch your breath before he and the rest of the band propel you on a galloping ride with a Tony said, &quot;I'd like to come up with some instrumental It's a little classical thing and create some light and shade. If you listen to an album or even a song from start to finish and you don't notice the heaviness of it because there is no light in between it. And that's why sometimes in I put a light part in to when it comes back in. (rock music) &quot;Children Of The Grave&quot; of &quot;Live In The Graveyard&quot;, illustrates the continuing a song title sound as if it was something from a horror film, when in fact the lyrics deals with a Far from being about any kind the track is another of coupled with his belief The titular children are in the name of peace and love, being doomed only to become if they fail this noble undertaking, Ozzy calls it &quot;The most kick With it's galloping, syncopated rhythm, like the four horseman of the apocalypse on their way to the It's the precursor to many metal tunes. Iron Maiden owes a homage especially. It's as if all the of Birmingham was converted The benefit of a 16 track studio gave &quot;Children Of The of percussion with Bill providing an unsettling tribal-like &quot;Children Of The Grave&quot; may also be a nod to one of Tony's and Geezer's favorite classical They're on record saying that Holst's &quot;Mars, The Bringer Of directly influenced their But melodically, you can also hear &quot;Mars, The Bringer Of War&quot; If you are getting a &quot;Star Wars&quot; John Williams, who did used Holst's &quot;Mars&quot; as an inspiration. (rock music) The song simply has the rolling power of an unstoppable juggernaut and has been a fixture and Ozzy's solo set as well ever since it first appeared. Indeed as the years have progressed, the song gradually took of &quot;Paranoid&quot; as the set The track ends with some with a repeated whispered voice ... (eerie music and whispering voice) which would loop endlessly on the original vinyl. The closing sounds you hear are calliope heard more fully on the released on the Deluxe Edition. The outro section was credited on the initial US pressing but the extra title was Although there is no I like to believe the ... (eerie ghostly voice) In the Friday The 13th movies by the outro to &quot;Children Of The Grave. (tense music) Where &quot;Embryo&quot; is medieval, this interlude is This one and a half minute is far more than another &quot;Embryo.&quot; Despite it's brief duration, and beautifully composed piece with a couple of brilliantly thrown almost casually into the middle. The short length of the of Iommi's lack of confidence including such a piece And it wouldn't be until that he'd add longer in the shape of &quot;Laguna Sunrise&quot;, &quot;Fluff&quot; and the intro It may also have been who is notorious for &quot;Orchid&quot; is a nice, death finger picking as a light contrast before by the cloven hoofed &quot;Lord Of This World.&quot; (rock music) Many Sabbath fans claim to be the heaviest tune that Surprisingly, this most is the most thoroughly The message is simple. God and the devil both exist. And if you don't willfully you get the devil by default. The reference to Satan is straight out of the new Testament. The ultra-heavy groove is Geezer said, &quot;Lord of because it wasn't God's world. It was Satan's world. The devil's more in control now and happier than ever before. People can't come together. There's no equality. The higher you climb, the more You feel you're better than other people, that they're inferior to you. And it's a sin to put And yet that's what people do.&quot; Lyrically, this is the &quot;After Forever&quot; model. Being a Christian message a scathing rebuke against those who pursue materialistic, self-absorbed lives, unaware that this is the path to Satan as summed up in this couplet. You turn to me In all your worldly green and pride But now you turn to me When it's your turn to die In retrospect, it was an that the band managed to pull off. While most bands would've been ridiculed for their Christian ideals, spooky imagery and uber heavy In effect, they managed of the dark side common to occult bands like Black Widow and Coven while escaping their gimmicky natures due to their greater All the while, making anti Sometime when the group before rechristening Osborne and Butler had to a song called &quot;Changing Phases&quot;, which turned into &quot;Solitude.&quot; Solitude is a wonderful, And there were many who thought and assumed it was Bill Ward. Solitude is a kind of with fewer psychedelic effects and more of a proggy folk rock vibe, akin to King Crimson's &quot;Moon Child, or the moody blues &quot;Vision of Paradise.&quot; Ozzy's voice here is masterful and it shows just how well My name means nothing My fortune is less Ozzy's voice aside, this is In addition to a multi-track acoustic and electric guitar parts, he also contributes some a legacy of an interest gained during his brief stint with Jethro Tull. Iommi said, &quot;I tried all sorts of things in the course of doing albums, even though I couldn't play them. And after being with Jethro I thought I might try the flute. I did it only to a very If you listen to Tony's a tribute to their first you will hear that amateur or not, he was quite proficient on the flute. (flute music) - Welcome back, everybody. And the first of our is the fantastic ... - Jethro Tull! (audience cheering) - [Narrator] Here's a brief overview for those who may not know the tale of Iommi being in Jethro Tull. Tull's guitarist, Mick Abrams left the band on November 30th, 1968. Ian Anderson had seen Earth and Iommi when they opened for them a week earlier at the Mother's Club in Erdington and offered him the job. Iommi thought it was an excellent but did not wanna leave But after the rest of the by telling Iommi to go for it. He did, but he quickly learned that Jethro Tull was more He was there to support Ian Anderson's vision of Jethro Tull, not That didn't sit right for Tony, so he put in his notice to leave. Ian was calm about it, but asked, &quot;We're in trouble now because we're doing this film, 'The Rolling Stones' Rock and Roll Circus and we don't have a guitar player. Would you do that at least?&quot; Iommi agreed and played with them on December 11th and 12th. Iommi had also come up with the riff in the Tull song, &quot;Nothing Is Easy&quot; from their sophomore album &quot;Stand up.&quot; Iommi has consistently spoken of the light and shade to provide different Master of Reality's &quot;Solitude&quot; as much as &quot;Planet with its acoustic guitar, &quot;Solitude&quot; is both a gorgeous and palette cleanser for the that is &quot;Into The Void.&quot; Much like &quot; Planet (rock music) The final tune &quot;Into The Void&quot; is a massive dinosaur stomper that in my opinion, rivals &quot;War Pigs, in terms of it's changes and structure. The gruesomely heavy that opens a song was another ghost title named &quot;Death Mask.&quot; Originally named &quot;Spanish Sid&quot;, this song is a sequel to Whereas the closing of that song indicated utopia didn't come about. The earth is consumed by and the fires of judgment. And the only place to go is away. The sons of freedom represent who make their way beyond This is also an apt metaphor as depicted in the book of Revelation. &quot;For the damned are condemned And the righteous are and a new earth in which they find everlasting life, peace and happiness.&quot; (rock music) An absolutely monstrous and Iommi has said that both Ward and Osborne had trouble nailing this one down. It was time, effort and Bill Ward said, &quot;That was Black Sabbath when it was absolutely coming alive. At that point, Geezer was and the band at that point We were really becoming confident due to all the touring we'd done. Sound garden recorded this for their 1992 re-release of their Their version substituted lyrics taken from a speech given by Chief Sealth, a Native American Leader in (rock music) The whites must treat As his brothers not his enemies Tell them what is a I'll bet he will die of loneliness Sealth, who lived 1786 to 1866 was also known as Chief Seattle for which the city where Sound Sound Garden was nominated for a best metal performance (rock music) Before we talk about the did you know another for Sabbath's next album. In December, 1970 Black Sabbath bought a black and white drawing from a German artist, Peter Reuter. The plan was for him to come and create a color version Why it didn't become the cover for &quot;Master of Reality&quot; is a mystery. Though, given that the band and label were trying to move away this may have been the reason why. (rock music) Featuring a pitch black cover with the band name eerily the title of the record was embossed with bubbly lettering for the UK and North American release so that you could feel &quot;Masters of Reality&quot; looked Later editions lacked and instead render the In his autobiography. Iommi &quot;Slightly Spinal Tap-ish, - What do you think? - No, this is it. - It says &quot;Smell The - That's &quot;Smell The Glove&quot;, - How much more black could this be? And the answer is none. None more black. - I think you're rationalizing like into something that You know, I think we're stuck with a very, very stupid and a very, and This is depressing. (rock music) - [Narrator] Black and purple to represent mourning colors. Many variants occurred around the world with the majority intending more readable beyond Post the initial pressings, There have been several variants worldwide of the color scheme with red, orange and all but purple lettering but always with the same basic design. According to disc.com, of the &quot;Master of Reality&quot; album cover. The original UK issues of the album had the sleeve constructed as a thin box, opening with a flat at A large six panel fold out featuring a sinister shot of The photo was taken by who was responsible for the cover artwork of &quot;Black Sabbath&quot; and &quot;Paranoid.&quot; The location was Black Park, a country park in Wexham, England. The Bloomsbury Group who would team up again for This was also the first on which the lyrics were reproduced on the back of the sleeve, which should have clarified what the band was about once and for all. Early US pressings were the hallmark of injudicious planning in the plural as &quot;Masters of &quot;Master of reality&quot; was the other than cover songs that didn't include full band credits for each song. Initially &quot;Orchid&quot;, &quot;After Forever&quot; were mistakenly This was changed when the and the tunes, even &quot;Orchid&quot; and &quot;Embryo&quot; were credited to the entire band. - [Reporter] Black their third album. It's called &quot;Master of Reality.&quot; (rock music) - [Interviewer] What do you - [Fan] I love them. - [Interviewer] Why? - [Female Fan] I dunno, Couldn't explain it. You know, they're outrageous. - [Female Fan 2] think They play what they feel Black Sabbath really - [Announcer] Music that by Black Sabbath on Warner Brothers. (rock music) - [Narrator] The album in July and in the US in August of 1971. One of the unique promotions was lifted from the &quot;Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.&quot; Sabbath randomly inserted into copies of a &quot;Master Of Reality.&quot; (triumphant music) - You got it, you've got (rock music) - [Narrator] The ticket explain why you love The winner would get to hang The winner ended up being and the 10 words or less that &quot;Black Sabbath have discovered In the description, I about his experience named &quot;A Dorito and 7-Up Picnic (rock music) &quot;Master of Reality&quot; was a commercial hit, a top five album in the UK and a top 10 success in America. It's the distinct point they were here to stay and far They were able to capitalize they had created the year before and enhanced to the stage further, all the while selling a ton and not to mention kick and inspiring musicians either toddlers or not even born yet. 1971 was a great year for Black Sabbath and marked the turning point for them as they became a massive yet critics still didn't get it. Sabbath were still written making simple music for grubby people. Even though the album shipped gold, went double platinum in the US and sold nearly 5 there were still a few critics for purportedly killing the hippie dream. Bill Ward said, &quot;When we 'My God surely, this has got Because I love Master of Reality. It's one of the best If we look at it through the lens of time, it's an iconic piece of music, Billy Corgan, leader of considers &quot;Master of Reality&quot; the album that spawned grunge. Rolling stone magazine, ranked the album in their list of the top Bill Ward said &quot;When we we were, as far as I'm I always looked at the first three albums as part of the same time period for us. But for me, it was Master of Reality that defined how good we'd become. The band had sort of while I like all those records, This is the one where I This is really the first It also marked the point at which we began to develop into something else.&quot; (rock music) All right, everybody let's go! Master of Reality was the Money, tours, unadulterated adulation, and unqualified success It is a marvel that black albeit somewhat for the worst. The band would go on to do their usual routine of tour, record, repeat. The Master of Reality Tour is where they'd find Feel the wrong side of success and start to lose their innocence. - [Ozzy] We love you all, yeah! Goodnight, we love you! (audience cheering)