Welcome to WOWKarma's class. This is where we mix life lessons with laughs and a bit of karma. Let's check out some real-life examples in today's session. The thief's plan was 99% successful. A creative invention, but it's not safe enough to be on the road. Now, come with us. A top student can do better than what they were taught. This woman refused to pay her electric bill and caused a scene. No one can stop an unreasonable Karen. But Karma can. She could laugh when she was in the lead. But she couldn't laugh when she missed out on the victory. Karma hits hard for greedy, lazy thieves who accidentally rob a kickboxer's store. They probably didn't expect Karma to hit that hard. Wanna join in, buddy? Bring it on! Blocking traffic is a dumb idea. Never do it. Taming a snake is no easy task. Move aside, you're bothering us. A decisive action, but Karma arrived even faster. Even the bike wasn't on his side for cutting into lanes. The thief could take whatever he wanted. But he wouldn't be getting out of the supermarket. Even with a perfect plan, you can still get a surprise. I saved you from a sure loss. Misbehaving kids needed to be taught a lesson. But first, Karma came for the mom who didn't know how to raise her kids. Don't ever think that trashing the store is the quickest way to get a refund. Because the cops definitely won't agree that way. The girl was ready for a fight, but her car had other plans. He thought he was a talented chef, until he saw the result. When your wife won't let you have beer for days, here's one way to get it. But you'll be spending some time explaining it to the owner. He thought he was the center of attention, with the royal guards as his backdrop. In the end, he was the one who ended up embarrassed. The cops might just give you a warning. But the police dog wouldn't let it slide. It's best to follow traffic laws everywhere. Even without cops around, others might give you a costly lesson. The thieves carefully planned for their 4am heist at the glass shop. But nothing escaped the police. They showed up within minutes to deal with them. Going nuts wasn't a good way to handle things. Especially when you were on the road. Karen always thinks that she's right. Just look at her expression. She probably never thought she'd end up failing. Hey girl, you dropped something. It's your sense of awareness. He was ready for a fight. But he didn't expect his teammates to give him such an unforgettable gift. Don't drink too much, because you'll end up looking like a comedian. Plus, it's a real nuisance for others. Our plan for a free ride worked. When the driver took her straight to the police station without charging a dime. Here's a lesson from Mama Duck. Always ask permission before taking someone's photo. Never speed, especially if you don't have a license. The police are always watching. This guy is about to show you what getting a taste of your own medicine really means. The angler was stunned by the squid's counterattack. Think you deserve a perfect jump after what you did? Nope. Karma surely wouldn't allow it. Everything has its limits, my friend. Keeping clean isn't about tossing things out the window. It's about using the trash can. This is what you get for thinking the grass is greener on the other side. Well done, kid. You've earned yourself a reward. The street isn't a playground. How about heading to the police station instead? There's no way those intruders are getting away with stealing so easily. Trouble's on the way. You're four steps away from realizing I'm ten steps ahead, little sis. The little girl's smile lasted before she got a quick dose of karma. Karen wanted to claim a parking spot just for herself. Fine, this guy would make sure her car stayed there forever. In this game, the real winner was the repairman. The outcome for those who drive into a pedestrian market is... Even small animals will fight back if you mess with them. Sometimes, your anger just makes you look like a fool. While waiting for the police to deal with the drunk woman causing chaos on the street, karma already hit her first. An ad for Pixar's real-life version, but with some glitches. The kid might sneak in without a ticket, but getting out wasn't so easy. Gotta give him credit for creativity. But practicality? Eh, not so much. Look at this guy confidently taking a hose to destroy a hornet nest with no protective gear. He seriously underestimated the power of those hornets. I don't think that sign is worth all the effort those two thieves put in. If it weren't for this video, I'd never have guessed just how much stuff girls' bags can hold. But all those items were from the supermarket, and she would have to pay the price for her shoplifting. Keep your eyes on the road. When you can't negotiate with a stubborn guy, the best move is to embarrass him. Just because she was unhappy with the peppers, the girl made a scene with the staff. She ended up getting a taste of her own medicine right away. I'm not sure what's up with Andrew Tate, but his bus antics were totally out of line. No matter how skilled Kung Fu Panda is, this bear's still gonna face the consequences for bullying the weak. It's time for this girl to realize that her pet is way smarter than she thought. Let everyone show the owner of this car how to pay attention to parking signs. Lesson one, this is a disabled parking area. That was definitely not a good goal scored. Hey, even the stork understands sign language. The girl just wanted to tease the firefighters a bit. She didn't expect such an impressive revenge. The value of the car can't make up for the owner's lack of awareness when parking like this. Karen caused a disturbance with the police for no reason at all. Look, she even acted surprised when she got arrested. Greed always brings more trouble than it's worth. Another tourist ignored the rule about keeping a distance from the animals. If only she realized the hat was just the first warning. I hope everything turns out okay and nothing happens to them. Um, I mean the fish. As for this guy, he definitely is in for a serious chat with the police. A moment of distraction on the road can lead to a bitter outcome. The cat doesn't want to play. And Karma made sure the cat voiced that. Dealing with troublemakers on the street is indeed tough, but first let's figure out who this driver is. Do you still want to claim compensation? In response to this gift, she decided to give them a family photo and a chance to clean up the city. The police will teach him how to behave like a gentleman. They got a bit too close for comfort. And the goanna ran straight at them. The shop owner quickly locked the door when the customer forgot to pay. Stay calm or else. This guy was ready to pick a fight with anyone who rubbed him the wrong way. Things didn't go as planned when he realized there was a cop in the car. A biker pulled off an impromptu performance while waiting at the red light. I bet you found it annoying too, but wait a moment. Karma will be there soon. Have you ever realized how scary girls can be? She argued with the server just to show off her salary. Then panicked when she realized her inappropriate behavior was caught on camera. She should start worrying about her salary after this video goes viral. Ouch! Karma comes before the things you plan to do. This wasn't a place where you could mess around. The bank robber ended up exactly where he belongs. Now it's up to the police to take care of the rest. Karma struck before security could even step in. Unable to control his anger, the Polish goalkeeper made a fool of himself on the field. The cat received its owner's command to kick the uninvited guest out. But the cockroach had another plan. The guest behaved rudely just because his refund request was denied. It's time he learned to respect others. Karma won't let pranksters get away with it. Not afraid of strong enemies, just afraid of stupid teammates. The girl was left behind with the stolen Nike pants and the cops were probably on their way. Karen caused chaos on the flight, again. The only solution was to kick the troublemaker off the plane. This was the punishment for you not respecting the country. That was effective. He found the formula to dealing with the Karen. Looks like after this, he won't dare to prank his wife ever again. That was a cool stunt, but I wonder how much he'll have to shell out to fix that supercar. Does this video satisfy you with some good Karma payback? Drop a comment below and don't forget to hit like, share, and subscribe for more hilarious moments from us. Thanks for watching and see you next time.