(Game Sack Theme) (logo bangs) - Hello and welcome to Game Sack, and in this episode we're gonna bitch, whine and complain about some games. - That's right, we are Everybody's got pet peeves, that really pisses you off. You're playing a game and it's like, did the developer really What's goin' on? - And we've got a list compiled for ya, so without further ado, let's get into it. (sweet-ass music) (Master System music) - You know what really chaps my ass? Alarm or warning noises in games. The kind that don't shut up until you take care of whatever the game is trying to warn you about. Wonder Boy in Monster Land is a really good example. This is an extremely fun adventure game that has some really but be sure to never let it get down to only one heart remaining, or God will it make your ears pay!! (very annoying alarm beeps) It's one of the most obnoxious and this noise just keeps until you find a way and that's not always an easy thing to do. (very annoying alarm beeps) Why???! Some games, like 1941 on the SuperGrafx have a less annoying sound but it still makes me wanna kill my plane, just to shut off the sound. (annoying alarm beeps) There's really no reason for this, ever. And in some games, it's not even to alert that you're near death. In Astal on the Saturn, for example, you have a bird that you life-giving fruit, attacking enemies, or freezing platforms to make The problem is that when and the bird wants to do something, it starts making an alarm sound, and it will not stop until you (annoying alarm ripples) Actually, this game is and this is only one of 'em. The music in this game is excellent, and I'm sure the composers that make it almost impossible And of course, it goes without saying that baby Mario in Yoshi's to make the game more enjoyable. Does it make the game I can't imagine that it does. (annoying baby crying annoyingly) Seriously, gamers aren't dumb. We don't need alarms to tell us when something bad is happening. Let us get a game over, and learn the hard way I tell ya, that's way more (annoying chime beeps) (annoying alarm noise) (logo bangs) (sweet-ass music) - [Dave] I love playing when we get the time. There's nothing than where teamwork will see to hopefully defeat the final boss, and share in the victory. It's really fun workin' together all the way through the game, like you helped each other And that's all great, you have that one friend and tries to take all This is definitely one It's like they don't realize you're playing the game with them. There's an untold code in playing co-op games, and that's to distribute If one person is low on health, they should automatically be entitled to get the next item that If one player has an awesome weapon, they should give up the next weapon icon to the other guy who This is what sours a Instead of fighting the common enemy, you end up trying to and you end up goin' for all the power ups just so they can see how it feels. It always ends up with your &quot;Dude stop hoggin' all the power ups!&quot; &quot;I really could've used that turkey man, can't you see I'm halfway dead?&quot; &quot;Ugh, I'm never playing So if you play two player co-op games, do the right thing and uphold the gamer code and cooperate. (cool Super C music and sounds) (logo bangs) (sweet-ass music) - [Joe] One of my biggest pet peeves is the all-seeing, I've mentioned this before briefly in an earlier episode, but damn it, it deserves more attention. Many modern single-player games over the last decade or and what is a radio buddy? Why it's that person that and always has helpful tips on how you should proceed in any given situation. They talk to you over the radio, and you're often able to communicate back to them and hold length conversations. - [Radio Buddy] This one's new. They call it a Hiker. It packs a fierce bunch Not exactly subtle. - [Joe] The radio buddy is somehow able to see what you're doing at all times. Right when you walk into a new area, your radio buddy is there immediately with advice and warnings for you. - [Female Radio Buddy] Good idea, it'll be safer if you keep - [Joe] And often, you by controlling different things in your environment somehow. - [Female Radio Buddy] I got control of the building systems. - [Joe] Why does the radio And what is the transmission I mean, walkie-talkies for having a great range. When it comes down to it, the radio buddy is just a lazy, uncreative way for developers not only but also to hold your hand. - [Female Radio Buddy] to blow up that wall. Search for something - [Joe] There's very few games and Metal Gear Solid is all of 'em. It sure doesn't look like this trope is going away anytime soon. - [Radio Buddy] Whoa, nice move. I wouldn't wanna be - [Joe] And again, at least of games that we can still enjoy, where we never had to worry about this. Can you imagine these - [Radio Buddy] Captain It's time to take your insulin. The enemy has inflicted that caused your immune system and now you can't make your own insulin, so you need to inject it yourself in order to break down the If you don't take your will take you down double time, and I wouldn't wanna be The only way to get rid of your diabetes is to defeat the final boss. Oh no, help me Captain Novolin, the enemy has now Hurry up and come save me! (crappy music and farty sounds) (body clanks) Come in Axol, this boss is dangerous, and he even brought a This boss can leave so be careful. If you can defeat the Oh no! You were defeated. I was able to hack in and but only a few so don't Speaking of candy, try And always remember to keep - [Joe] Now, do you see where I'm coming from when I say how in most games are? I should hope so. (weapons whooshing) (explosions bang) (helicopter roars) - [Female Radio Buddy] Hey, why not chuck a zombie at it? (weapons whooshing) - All right, we're and I don't know about you, but I'm pretty pissed off so far. - Oh yeah. - But you know what, with things like that radio buddy, It makes me just wanna laugh it's so bad. - Indeed, but you've got one that really pisses me off as well. So let's get into it. (sweet-ass music) - [Dave] My next gripe is about games where you get knocked after taking a hit from an enemy. Now don't get me wrong, because I know this does serve a purpose. I know that if you're fighting an enemy, and there's no knock back, you'll basically be standing on top of that enemy taking hits, or it would allow ya to your enemies to the end of a level, even though you take a So yeah, being knocked back of a lot of 2D action in the process, AKA temporarily paralyzed, just adds to the anger I have. There's a few situations that I get in, which will just increase that I feel when this happens. The first one is where you're just on a flat level actioning your way across. You get hit by an enemy and get knocked back and stunned. I get annoyed with this on whatever it is that hit In my mind, I'm makin' sure even though in reality I know the sprites can't feel anything. The next level of anger is in certain games where and there's enemies I do my best to kill I get hit and then I get thrown into the screen that I just game from. What in the hell?! And here I am, going back again to have another shot only to get tossed back to And in old games on the NES, where enemies don't stay this becomes quite frustrating. Sometimes even to the point where I wanna huck my The next type where I just wanna snap, is where I get knocked back I'm completely at the mercy of my enemies, and they have no mercy, since they're just little Wow, it sure seems like Castlevania, my favorite series of games, is being shown a lot in the segment. God, why do I lose these games so much if they make me wanna destroy everything in a three foot radius of my body? You know, I'll never The last type of knock back that has, and will put me over the top, is being knocked back when you're doing some platforming over There's nothing quite to make a jump or doing where I get hit and knocked back, and down I go into the abyss. This was a staple in platforming This is what I grew up knowing, and this is where I than I care to admit. I'm not sure how these games could be designed any differently, but that doesn't mean I have (cool Castlevania music) (logo bangs) (sweet-ass music... again) - [Joe] Oh, how I hate a side-scrolling game when too close to the edge of the screen. Basically, if you're and your character is to the right of the middle of the screen, they're too close to the right edge. For example, Alpha on the Master System is a huge offender. It's so easy to die when you can't react to the bats that come on screen and kill you with one touch. The side scrolling segments of Golvellius on the Master System, and especially the MSX version, are Fortunately, the entire game But the word offender that I've seen by far is Exile: Wicked I mean, look at that. You have many like 20 pixels of space. Other games, like X-Men on the Genesis are pushing it, but not quite to the point where it's too horrible. But it's something they definitely fixed in X-Men 2, so they noticed. I feel it's an artificial Since you walk so close to you don't have any time or other dangers that are in front of you. You'll end up taking a lot of damage, or even falling or dying because everything appears Maybe the developers intend that your character is nearsighted. I don't wanna play as a without their glasses. Whatever the case is, You end up creeping along slowly, bit by bit, so that you have enough time to deal with whatever's ahead. And sometimes that doesn't even help, because the enemy's attack range is bigger than your visible Not only that, but it's a huge as you have so much space behind you that you're note even concerned with. Some programmers, like Dave Perry, also think that this annoying, and he found a solution. But sadly, the solution it And his solution was that has lots of space in front That means if you turn around, the screen abruptly snaps to and that snapping can get pretty bad if you're in a spot where you're trying to get an item or So I'm not sure which I hate more, but at least Dave Perry's later games didn't do this so abruptly. That means that he and I do admire his original intentions. But hopefully we can agree that walking or running too closely to the side of the screen is a bad thing, So basically, I just wanna have room to see where I'm going, and not have a whip (edgy music) (sword whooshes) (logo bangs) (still more sweet-ass music) - [Dave] Okay, I've got another one concerning two player co-op games. I really hate when you can damage each other in certain games. This is common in a lot of beat 'em ups. It's insanely frustrating when you and your buddy to beat up or kill, and It puts a halt to the to back away and fight someone else, which in turn leaves you both The Streets of Rage series Not only do you damage you close to them you put them in a hold. After that, it's a to release the hold, all while the enemy can be taking their shots at And half the time, you because you just end up There's one game that I know that has proactively put Battletoads/Double Dragon has a two player game A and B option. Option A will make it super real, and let you beat up your Option B, on the other hand, only lets you beat up the enemy. I'd like to commend Rare for this, but the reality of it is to damage another player in the game. And I mean, ever! Okay, okay, one on one fighting games in Battle Royale style And online first person shooters. And yes, sports games (fist clanking) (body slams, etc) - Ah okay, I mean I I don't play two player games very much because I don't have any friends. - Aw. - (chuckles) But I can see - Yeah, it definitely I mean I'm sure people think it's a strategic move to But forget that, when I we're gonna be all over the screen, so it's valid, and I hate it. - Okay then, so we've got some more, so just sit back and stay tuned. (sweet-ass music) - [Max Payne] I wouldn't if one of them was helping the poor, and the other was banging my sister. - [Joe] Do you like cut scenes? Do you like them so much that I like them sometimes, but I hate not being able For example, the opening for Okami on the PlayStation 2 is just dreadful. What makes it worse is the that must sound with each (distorted voice ripples) And it takes over seven long minutes before it even starts to But then it becomes dull again at about 10 minutes in with this lady who has way too much to say and is not in any hurry to say it. You won't be able to until over 15 minutes after C'mon, tell me the backstory as I play, don't force it all on me at the beginning. Then there's Final Fantasy X. You can't skip any of the cut scenes here, but at least you can pause the ones that are rendered with the game engine. Sadly, you can't pause the FMV cut scenes. Some people might ask why you'd ever want to skip where it's all about the story. Well if you die at a boss guess who gets to watch the entire cut scene And if you're going and you already know the story and you just want to get through They should've fixed this in the HD remaster here, but nope. At least with Okami HD they give you the option which is much appreciated. I guess developers think the time in the world and nothing This issue even extends with a few games like Xardion You can't skip the opening It'll be 45 seconds before and it even has more Then you get to the actual game, and it still has more to say. It'll be over a minute and a half after you've powered on the game before you're actually able to experience the thing you bought the game for. Gameplay! But that's nothing compared with their publisher logos, their game engine logos, and on their very own screens, slowly. But back then, it was very frustrating to be forced to wait the game on for quite literally (mediocre music) Some games like Max Payne to hide the loading of the next area. If you try to skip them, it gently lets you know so please calm your impatient ass down! You can skip them once it's all loaded, but it takes quite a long time to do so, even though the entire game was installed on your consoles hard drive. For some reason, a lot of people complain about the unskippable cut In my opinion, when you're playing this for the first time, especially since it blends But if you're replaying it again, then it is kind of a bummer unless you wanna experience The bottom line is that is the most important part for me, and sometimes - [Max Paybe] These who went to night clubs in helicopters. Fabiana had brought her sister along, presumably so she could show off just how rich and empty her life was, and boy was she about to learn the meaning of rich and empty. (logo bangs) (sweet-ass music... yes again) (hella-awesome rock guitar music) - [Dave] Probably my that don't have a life bar. This might seem petty to because you think it adds or some crap like that, but that I could, well, I could You work so hard at or whatever you do to get through a level to finally come face to face with a boss, and sometimes it's a huge boss. You fight it, and wonder the whole time if you're evening hurting it. Is he dying? Is he at all hurt? Is he even close to dying? How much more do I have to punish him before he frickin' dies? Seriously, a lot of times and I really need to know to killing this freakin' boss. But there's a lot of Castlevania, for example. All the bosses have life bars, and even though you might die a few times, at least you know what's This right here, knowing how gives you many ideas on what to take less hits, and also to put the massive hurt on the boss. Actually a lotta games do it right. Mega Man does it, and it's always nice when you use the right weapon, watchin' the bosses life bar get Same goes for games like Tough games for sure, but hey, I love them even more because There is games out there a life bar, and I'm actually okay with it. The Super Mario games after the first one are a great example. None of the bosses have life bars, but you know that they take and maybe a few more for Bowser. Sonic's another good example, because you know all the There's another type of boss fight that doesn't have a life And that's bosses that change colors, or flash the more you hit them, and the closer they get to death. Well I guess it's kind of like a primitive life bar But for God sake's, why have a boss that does nothing until Super Ghouls 'n Ghosts is Every boss you encounter in that game just soaks up the hits. If you have the base weapon, it could feel like Same with Contra III on the SNES. The boss of the third level, before I knew how to fight him, probably was the inspiration Those two smaller robots, were things that brought me nightmares. I definitely broke a controller Now does this ruin a game for me? No, of course it doesn't, but if this information was available and viewable as I'm fighting. What're you're thoughts (speaks in foreign language) (red boss buzzes) (logo bangs) (sweet-ass music) - If you've been watching you'll probably remember me complaining that European games love be harmed by drops of water. That's right, drops of water. And it's true, European games love that. They love that crap! Yep, if you touch water, even just a drop, that's just as bad as gettin' hit in the face by an enemy fist In games like Jim Power, a drop of water will outright kill you. I mean it's not bad enough that the scrolling is so wonky that your eyeballs begin to convulse, but you've gotta watch And look at the agonizing death that this poor bastard experiences after touching a single drop of water. - [Jim Power] AAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!! - [Joe] I wonder how he takes a bath. And like I said, this seems to be mainly a thing with European game developers. For example, the original Blaster Master was Japanese, and your tank But Blaster Master 2 on the Genesis was developed in Manchester, so that means a drop of water can destroy your tank! Yes, they love this in Europe, it's their favorite But, believe it or not, that were developed outside of Europe that do this, some even And it's still not cool at all. Suffice it to say, a drop of water is probably one of the lamest, if not the lamest, obstacles (unremarkable music) (gun whooshes) (character dings) (logo bangs) (sweet-ass music) - [Dave] Okay last one, and you know what? It's gonna be pretty quick. And again it's about Have you ever played a game like Contra, and you're going up the and then one player jumps and scrolls you off the Yeah, what kind of crap is that? The player that's going too fast shouldn't be allowed to scroll until the But no, you die instead. This effectively makes the two player mode a lot harder than the single player mode. What ends up happening is just to make sure the other doesn't get pushed off the screen. It's really irritating, especially if it accidentally happens the way of enemy fire or something, and kill the other player. Fortunately, there's not a but if you happen to be playing you really need to make sure (gun bangs) - [Player 2] Ow, ow, ow, ow. - [Player 2] Ow, ow, ow, ow. - [Player 2] Ow, ow, ow, ow. (gun bangs) - All right, those are some but of course we've got more. - Yeah, definitely, yeah, so we wanna hear what your and leave them in the comments down below. - And in the meantime, thank (Game Sack Outro Theme) - [Radio Buddy] Hey, Simon, even though radios I was able to hack in from the future, so that you could hear me. There's lots of bats and vampires and things like that here, so I need you to take in order to save the future! Good job, Simon, you found Eating it will restore your life, and help you to manage your diabetes. Come in Simon! This monster here is Medusa and she can be pretty tough, but if you throw your she'll get massive In fact, your insulin vials are probably the best weapon you have. Oh boy, this guy sure does and he's immune to insulin, so you'll have to use the Cross of Fear, which you lose even if you catch Don't ask me why, I didn't (music of dying) (game over music) You should've taken better