Hi everyone! In the last episode, we derived the schrodinger energy operator, also called the Hamiltonian. So to begin working with the schrodinger equation, operator, which can be written as the momentum Since the momentum operator shows up in the really digging into how the momentum operator as a derivative on our wavefunction. We're going to be using a ton of the results watching Chapter 13 first, if you haven't With that, let's dive into it. To start, let's begin like we did last episode, operator, we now want to analyze the translation What does the translation operator do? Well, when acting on a position eigenstate, corresponding to x plus a. Given this definition here, it's pretty on an arbitrary quantum state. We can always expand the quantum state in linear combination is unfamiliar to you, I series. We can then move the translation operator translate them all over by a. Now, looking at what we have here, we can intuitive interpretation. Since this operator shifts all the position intuitively takes our quantum state and shifts Now, with this intuition, we can already extract doing nothing else to the particle, just moving the total probability of our particle should In other words, spatial translations should I mean all we're doing is moving stuff over! It'd be weird if the total probability were Since we calculate the total probability using this gives us the following equation which Now, note that this is the same equation we And if you remember, we painstakingly showed that translations should be reversible, imply We went through the full proof back then, we have here. Thus, spatial translations must be unitary With that, we now want to find out how this Let's just follow our lead from last episode, to look at the action of the operator over Exactly like last episode, we could then taylor that the translation operator for a = 0 is in place. Then we apply both sides to some initial position On the left, the translation operator acting dx. So, after moving things around and dividing Then taking dx to zero, we have the definition order terms vanish, so we get the following Remember that this is exactly what we did Now, this still doesn't look like much, that T is unitary! Just like for the time evolution operator, over a tiny displacement dx, and if we do taylor expand both operators, this allows antihermitian, which means that it satisfies Since the derivative of T is antihermitian, hermitian conjugate, we will get a negative out, giving us the exact same thing back. In other words, this must be equal to some Moving the i over, we get the following equation to be determined hermitian operator. Now let's plug this into our differential So, what hermitian operator do we expect on Well, here is where we need to use our classical We can call back to episode 12, where we found generate a change in the position of the lagrangian, to changes in momentum. In other words, momentum is the generator Thus, it seems that if we want to generate we should also look to momentum. Hence, we use our physics intuition to assert must be the momentum operator. Again, I know this can feel like a leap of this generator business is an established of a leap as it seems - just keep in mind we made for the schrodinger equation. Let's do one last thing before revealing Like last episode, we need to make sure the On the left, the derivative gives us units units of momentum, which you can show can So to match the units on both sides, we just times seconds, or Joule seconds. Like with the schrodinger equation, this constant reduced planck constant. So, we've found an equation showing how Again, notice how similar this equation is episode, and all the terms in the momentum So, what are we to make of this? I really want you to notice that there is of being a physicist is discovering patterns So what is this pattern? Well, we first start with a transformation time evolution or spatial translation. We then reason that this transformation must must imply that the transformation is unitary. We then look at how the operator acts over Doing this and using the unitary property, i times the derivative with respect to our operator. We then use our intuition from classical physics is, and state that this hermitian operator time evolution, this generator was energy, was momentum. We then insert a factor of hbar to match the So following this pattern, we found that time spatial translations gave us the action of same pattern, momentum translations would operator, and rotational changes would give Note that the negative that shows up in front our quantum theory consistent - if it weren't momentum operator equation. Now, most textbooks don't note this pattern, beautiful this is. We see that the Schrodinger equation is actually involving transformations and generators in Many of you have asked what observables actually looking at it: the action of your favorite change in your quantum state. So, hopefully you see why I really like the equation - it's based on a very general Generators and symmetries form the foundation pattern you see here only scratches the surface. Last thing, notice the similar structure between equations we derived in chapter 12. I mentioned in that chapter that the lagrangian to the quantum state. Hopefully seeing these equations adds some Now, although we could dedicate time to each the rest of this episode discussing the momentum First, note that we found the action of the want to know what it does to the position To do this, let's act the momentum operator state in the position eigenbasis. We can move the momentum operator into the the scalar coefficient in this infinite linear on to the position ket. Using what we just derived, we know that the ket is equal to i hbar times the position Now, here is where we need to be a little We are going to use integration by parts to When integrating by parts, we first get a then we subtract the integral where we've If our wavefunction is to be normalizable, minus infinity, therefore the boundary term So, in all, we've found the following. So, what does this say? This says that when acting the momentum operator the wavefunction in front of the position by -ihbar. So, we have found that the momentum operator This is something that's usually introduced textbook, but rarely do they show where it Hopefully you now understand how we got to Really quick, note that sometimes you see This is technically an abuse of notation, not scalar wavefunctions. If you want an expression like this, then In other words, when you act the momentum the position basis with the position bra, More simply, the action of the momentum operator derivative. This keeps all our bra-ket formalism consistent. So, now that we have this, let's go back what it looks like in the position basis. First we write the hamiltonian as kinetic Let's now take the inner product with a everything onto the position basis. On the left, the position bra doesn't depend which becomes a partial derivative since we The inner product of x and psi just gives in other words, we get the wavefunction. On the right, we can use the result we derived position basis. Doing this for each p gives us the following. Finally, for the potential energy term, since position operator, the potential energy operator hat replaced by the eigenvalue x. And there it is, we've derived the equation the position-basis Schrodinger equation. I really want to emphasize that this equation We can also ask how the schrodinger equation To do this, we would do basically the same of the schrodinger equation onto the momentum ket as shown. Like before, on the left the momentum bra partial time derivative of the inner product In the kinetic energy term on the right, the operator, so this will just give us the momentum Now, in the potential energy term on the right, operator after projecting onto the momentum If you were to follow our logic from this you would find that the action of the position So in the potential energy term, we would And here it is, the momentum-basis schrodinger It's used much less than the position basis to have in your back pocket. Lastly, if you take the schrodinger equation taking an inner product with an energy eigenvector, equation, where c_i is the basis coefficient and we've assumed the hamiltonian was time This is the energy-basis schrodinger equation. So, here are some of the different basis-representations Again, this isn't something that you see the first one at you and call it a day. I want to stress that these all represent Each one tells you how the coefficients in one equation carries any more information With that, I think we can wrap up this episode. This also wraps up the fundamentals that I There's still a ton of aspects of quantum For example, I plan to release an episode explanation of Bell's theorem and Bell inequalities, of the 2022 Nobel Prize in physics. These videos would be released at an unspecified the channel. Until then, thank you again for watching through I hope you've enjoyed learning about quantum videos on it. See you all in the next video!