[Music] Would you like to hear the terrifying story of one The barren, desolate and deadly homeworld places that a human marine could be sent to. has not been completely uncovered. What we and the few samples available to humanity What really happened to the home of the before the Strogg arrived? And what Here we explore the lore In a galaxy far, far away from Planet Earth, there worlds, this giant mass orbited a sun, and had not been named. They would, however, become would eventually make the planet theirs. From similar to Earth's gravitational pull, size and Although the planet has fallen so far over the was once home to life with oceans, mountains and In the present day, humanity only discovered mountains and deep canyons. A planet that was The question was. What could have made The rise of the dominant species of Stroggos, did they come from? While humanity could not several members of the Space Marine One of the Space Marine Corps believed that artificially created super soldiers. These centuries before for an ancient, advanced complete collapse of the civilization. All that The Strogg had been designed with no empathy guide or control them, they adapted and made use of the remnants of their creators' The Makron, took over leadership and was developed to command the Strogg soldiers. another marine had a different theory. The Strogg they evolved, their level of the understanding At one point, they became a little too reliant their evolution through technology and became There was also the theory that this race the Shub-Niggurath, and it changed them. or whether they are correct at all - upon the rise an endless wage of war. Unfortunately, In order to become the strongest army, the from their planet. They constructed countless smelted the extracted metals into armour and civilization, and erected a large railway system As the Strogg civilization of war grew, their toxic waste was discarded into the environment. the human age of industry. While the majority ways to use and dispose of dangerous materials, of global industrialization, and over have had an extremely horrific effect on the As of now, only three variations of wildlife to have simply become extinct as a result or they were assimilated into The Strogg army. they were called. Once an ape-like animal, mutated with deadly teeth and claws. These were and was deemed an almost certain death if various enclosed cave regions of the planet. factories, and even further afield in the Badlands discovered in packs. These were very similar a painful death if a Space Marine were to fall the Gekk were also discovered. Typically these creatures were just as hostile towards The traversal of Stroggos was extremely hostile. capture and utilize what they could of organic hostile and killed without hesitation. were no civilians. They all had soldiers, scientists. Each role was important. swamps formed, and for miles and miles, all that military-industrial centres, transportation Their industrialisation however was not limited space flight, they looked to the stars. Cerberon, the Makron guided the a secret base was constructed within the access it was through an advanced teleporter secret military base was also set up on the vehicles of the Strogg fleet, The Strogg had destroyed their planet. all organic life was not limited to their own For as far as the eyes could see, Stroggos industrial facilities, warehousing districts, the Cerberon Palace, a "Black Hole Generator" Technology" to explore the universe for organic It was here that a highly advanced gravity and the moons from any assaults. A device in place to be taken out one by one. by The Nexus, The Strogg came across Planet Strogg had encountered. This one, however, The Strogg fleet was strong, and this first war of Earth's cities were destroyed in The as millions of humans were either killed in the Humanity did eventually fight back this alien but this was not the end of the conflict. and to protect Earth from a future assault, the technology of their invaders and The details of the several operations to take down Stroggos, the Space Marine Corps discovered what For those strong enough, they were subjected in which they were mutilated into Strogg and brains by The Nexus. This was truly a fate or not of use for the Strogg, they were instead Stroyent. A concoction that essentially The Strogg could not procreate in the fusions of decaying flesh, metal, and bone This war on Stroggos led to more destruction explosions, and the increased use of continue this war in which more waste After the successful completion of Operation Matthew Kane not only killed The Nexus that controlled almost every Strogg unit. and without a leader, The Strogg able to think and act for themselves. orders from a new, unknown force. A force that looks like Stroggos will simply continue to The planet of Stroggos is by far one of the worst or any species. Only the strongest survived. their impact on their world They essentially poisoned Stroggos, the countless species from other planets into new units and the whole planet basically Looking back, if we were able to the knowledge of possible civilizations, would make this story much darker than it had fallen, would that really change As of now, it appears that humanity won their will allow the planet to heal, and maybe the help rebuild this world. However, we all know just have to wait and see how this will play out. so many topics lined up to explore. Stroggos of Stroggos, theories put forward by the and the ability to actually see what impact was remarkable to see. I feel like the developers little theory to make this story interesting. know those details about a pre-Strogg Stroggos. and basically, how the Strogg ruined the planet. and it was tough to stop going on the Strogg themselves. I will dedicate I think that was everything I wanted to say, Most importantly, subscribe if you are interested my gold tier patrons and channels members, ChickenGuy791, Ruben Mendoza, Duke, Toadnut, Comfy, BGgames, Aprofis, Arnis, Blaze of Would you have liked to have seen a pre-Strogg And what would you like me to cover next? This is where our story ends.