- The world's biggest turboprop and nobody carries more - Whoa. (upbeat music) - Never, ever thought about the opportunity sitting on the Antonov 22. (upbeat music) - Bremen very short runway. (upbeat music) Our aircraft is 47 years old. - We can load ships, helicopters. - This aeroplane goes to Africa. It goes to the airport with very long way. (plane engine roaring) - Finally, the bus is arriving. - Let's see if the bus can drive straight into the fields at large. - Stop. (upbeat music) - Antonov 22 means Antei. Antei is the biggest and the strongest. (speaking in foreign language) (upbeat music) - Hello, my name Captain Volodymyr Mosin. Today on Antonov 22, we'll be able to perform Our flight time will be today 45 minutes and flight level of 200. (upbeat music) (plane engine roaring) (upbeat music) Now we are approximately five minutes before descent to Bremen. Weather is good. (plane engine roaring) (chattering) (upbeat music) (plane engine roaring) (upbeat music) (plane engine roaring) (upbeat music) - Can you see the plane the door open, the guys every minute counts in It's really quite an impressive. (upbeat music) - My name is Ievgen, and today we are loading And our strong team of 11 have built the external so it's quite an easy lot for today. Once the bus comes here, he can easily drive in Then we shut door and go to Leipzig back. (upbeat music) - We arrive to Bremen to Normally aircrafts and so well can lend in and take off from this but just only this aircraft from this runway. - And I also saw many incredible footage. This aeroplane goes to Africa. It goes to airport with very long way. (plane engine roaring) - [Volodymyr] These are - Uh-uh, in Mali. The Soviet system is like you have radio controller engineer. Everybody do their part. So as a pilot, I will imagine you had less things to do, so it's maybe easier for you, or it's very difficult for you. - It's not difficult, but 47 years old aircraft, and you have to control it's manually, approximately the whole flight. That's why people says, that skies loves and strong people have eat too much. - The sky loves strong people. As strong people love to eat too much. You got muscles to find and 22. You really need all your muscles. - All of it. (upbeat music) - Usually when the plane arrive, the cargo is ready to load in the plane. And today is a little funny, our special shipment hasn't arrived while the plane came early, - While we're waiting for and have a quick look So as you can see, the cargo compartment is four metres high and four metres wide. So that allows us to load We have a system of internal cranes, which can lift up to 10 some of the cargo that We can load vehicles. We can load battle we can load ships, helicopters. So particularly any type of cargo. Also we have some extra equipment. This is the other part of our EMP system. And some extra tyres, as you can see, so we can easily change the tyre, since some equipment during - These are incredible This looks crazy here. - Yeah. These are the lashing locks. Once the cargo is inside, - [Sam] They lock the cargo down. So the cargo doesn't shift and move. - [Ievgen] Yes. Exactly. - Which become very dangerous - Yes. - I think This is why I love about Antonov. You don't need a lot of ground support. - Yes. - Everything can be self sufficient and then the plane arrive settle the ramp, use the crane to load the Never, ever thought about the opportunity sitting on the Antonov 22. It's actually a really Real, really roomy, I And it's very heavy on the yoke, the enter of yoke is very heavy, And also I'm stepping on Four engine power, just like flying away. (upbeat music) - Have you seen the - [Sam] No. Let's go. (upbeat music) Ho, ho. - Yeah. This is it. - A secret passage. A - Yeah. - Very nice. - [Speaker] This is Vasyl, (chattering) - So captain and the crew, I want to present you This was painted by a kid When I went to his house to visit him, he presented me this painting, He knew this aeroplane Even you see the nose and you are 09307, and would you have the And I will give back to Noah. And just to tell him, I and they will be a fantastic memory for both myself and for him - Noah, we are here now. - Noah, we are here inside. (upbeat music) It's like a dream came true. (soft music) - Our aircraft is 47 years old. And now we have just only - [Sam] A 100 hours left. - And I don't know about Maybe, the museum maybe, we prolonged-- - [Sam] You never know in aviation. - Yeah. - [Sam] It's better to fly now. So you guys working the team, how long do you know him for? - We are working together - You know each other 25 - Not only Antonov 22. Oh, Antonov 124, Antonov 225-- - And basically craft Antonov 70. - 70. (upbeat music) - Finally, the bus is arriving after quite a long time waiting. And then it's our shipment for today. (upbeat music) - The aeroplane clearance height is, I think it's four metre by four metre. So let's see if the bus can drive straight into the fields at large. (bus engine roaring) - Stop. (bus engine roaring) - The technical crew is replacing some tyres from the back, so Because once it started to drive in, the end goal didn't allow it to absolutely to dispatch as you can see, I think it's in the exhaust system. (upbeat music) - And this is why I love operational jobs. On the day you have to solve the solution. You can't create a delay, So let's see if that, now they remove some of the they removed that plate, the bus can drive straight (upbeat music) This is so cool, the bus just came inside of Antonov like that, it was like literally And now the guys are busy to undo the ramp and pack up. (upbeat music) - The only way to light the bus is to put the chains underneath - [Sam] Why? So the bus can move? - Yes. So the bus cannot - [Sam] Yeah. (upbeat music) (plane engine roaring) - We expect departure in 10 minutes. (plane engine roaring) Now, starting engines. (plane engine roaring) Now, we are going to light because Bremen very short runway. After refuelling we are going to Baku. (speaking in foreign language) (plane engine roaring) - [Instructor] Antonov - [Captain] Line up 093518. The guy is back. - [Instructor] Antonov 3518109. (speaking foreign language) (upbeat music) (plane engine roaring) (upbeat music) - [Instructor] Antonov 3518 - [Pilot] It changed itself to 1103518. (upbeat music) - [Instructor] Antonov 3518 have you established the localizer? (speaking in foreign language) - Now, we are strengthening once we are in Leipzig. - Antonov 3518 (speaking in foreign language) (plane engine roaring) (whooshing) (beeping)