Good afternoon, Senator. Under Article three of the Constitution, federal courts have jurisdiction over only cases and controversies. Which means under the Constitution, it has to be an actual dispute that federal courts cannot simply issue advisory opinions on the question. They may have a view on And one component of Article three. Jurisdiction is the requirement of standing That in order for a plaintiff to have standing to bring a case. That that plaintiff at least, generally speaking, must have a real and concrete injuries. Is that right? That is correct. Um, so, for example, that that that means that even if I might have a disagreement with some particular policy or some particular law that I can't bring a case unless I am personally aggrieved by that policy, or that law Ah, So, for example, you're in my alma mater. Harvard is currently being sued for its explicit and in my view, egregious policy. Of discriminating against Asian Americans. Even though I think that policy is egregious. I, as an individual plaintiff could not bring a lawsuit challenging it because I'm not Asian American. Is that right? If you brought a lawsuit, um the court would have to evaluate whether you had an actual injury in order to be able to determine whether it had subject matter jurisdiction to hear the suit. But if I'm not in the class being discriminated against that I don't have the ability to bring the lawsuit. Is that right? I think you'd have to have an actual injury. Certainly people I think who are in the class could claim that they had an injury for that purpose. So now you're you're on the board of Overseers of Harvard. If you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse from this lawsuit? That is my plan, Senator. Okay? We discussed yesterday how the standard for race discrimination was strict scrutiny. The court has laid out a different standard for gender discrimination. What is the constitutional standard that applies to gender discrimination? Gender discrimination? The court has held Um, intermediate scrutiny applies, which is, um That the government has to have an important interest. And, um the tailoring doesn't have to be as narrow right? So yesterday under under questioning from Senator Blackburn You told her that you couldn't define what a woman is that you were not a biologist, which which I think you're the only Supreme Court nominee in history who has been unable to answer The question. What is a woman? Let me ask you as a judge. How would you determine if a plaintiff had Article three standing Ah to challenge a gender based rule regulation policy. Without being able to determine what a woman was. So, Senator, I know that I'm a woman. I know that. Um Senator Blackburn is a woman and the woman who I admire most in the world is in the room today. My mother It sounded as though the question was asked under the modern leftist sensibilities If I decide right now that I'm a woman. Um then, apparently, I'm a woman. Does that mean that I would have Article three standing to challenge a gender based restrictions? Senator to the extent that you are asking me about, um, who has the ability to bring lawsuits based on gender? Those kinds of issues are working their way through the courts, and I'm not able to comment on them. Okay. If if I can change my gender if I can be a woman, and then an hour later, if I decide I'm not a woman anymore. I guess I would lose Article three standing Tell me does that same principle apply to other protected characteristics? For example, I'm Hispanic man. Could I decide I was an Asian man. What would I have the ability to be an Asian man? And challenge Harvard's discrimination because I made that decision. Senator, I'm not able to answer your question. You're asking me about hypotheticals and, um, how you would assess standing, if if I came in and said, I have decided, identifies an Asian man I would assess standing the way I assess other legal issues, which is to listen to the arguments made by the parties consider the relevant precedents. And The constitutional principles involved and make a determination. Okay, let's go back to your favorite topic of this hearing. Which is the criminal law cases you had as a district judge, and in particular the cases involving child pornography. Now your defenders, both on the democratic side of the diocese and also in the press. Have suggested that the criticism that has been raised has been somehow Cherry picked that it's only some specific examples. So so I'm going to give you an opportunity. To discuss each and every case you've had Because looking at your cases and I have now examined all of the child porn cases you've had as a federal district judge. There is a very consistent pattern. So let's start and by the way, I'm excluding the cases. So Senator Durbin and Senator Coons focused on The Nickerson case. The Fife case that in the wind case in the hilly case, excluding those because those are not child porn cases, those are actual sexual assault of a child, which is markedly different and I will concede when you're dealing with sexual assault. You have been willing to impose stricter penalties. So let's Focus on actual child pornography cases. And let's go through each of them because of its right that we're cherry picking that then you should be able to to explain quite powerfully. Now Your justification is that you're following the statute and as you know, 18 USC section 3553 Lays out the factors that has a district judge you had to consider in sentencing and let's start with the Hess case. United States vs Hess Now. In that case, a man sent six pictures of a prepubescent girl that he claimed was his daughter to an undercover law enforcement officer. Officers found over 600 images of child pornography, including images of sexual acts being performed on Children. The defendant pled guilty, and I believe in all of these cases, the defendant pled guilty. There's no question about guilt. They came in and pled guilty in your courtroom. The charge carried amendment mandatory minimum sentence of five years and a mandatory maximum sentence of 20 years. The sentencing guidelines recommended 151 to 188 months sentence. The government as part of a plea greet deal agreed to argue for 60 months but didn't agree that that would be the sentence simply that they would advocate it. And you, in turn sentenced has to 60 months so Under the terms of the statute. Why did you choose to sentence has to the absolute lowest possible sentence you were allowed to sentence under law. Thank you, Senator. I have spoken at length throughout this hearing about these cases, I've said What I'm going to say, which is I've taken every case seriously. These are very horrible asking you directly about that case. I've taken every case seriously, So you're not going to answer that? These are very horrible crimes, as was that one and as a mother Having to look at these pictures having to follow. Congress is directive having to listen to recommendations like the government. In that case, which argued for 60 months, I Imposed the sentence that I believed Was the sentence. That was required by law. So I believe you and I've actually I've read your sentencing hearing and each one of these cases for which we have transcripts, and there's several of which we don't have transcripts. So in each of these cases you read from the same script. So in each of these cases, you say that The distribution of child pornography is an extremely serious federal crime. And you point out that the crime involves people who were taking pictures and videos of real Children while the Children are being sexually abused. Enhance. You pointed out that he had hundreds, hundreds of images of Children and sexually compromised position. Some of them in K engage in silent, masochistic acts. All of this. I'm reading from you at on the bench. And most importantly, the Children in these pictures are not knowing and willing participants in the degrading conduct that was being depicted they were being forced, forced by someone off screen to commit. Unspeakable acts of sexual violence for the pleasure of the people filming them. And for the gratification of people everywhere. And what concerns me is that many of those people have absolutely no shred of empathy. For what that conduct does for the Children who were being abused in this way, And you read this script and every one of these cases. So you talk about that that these are terrible, terrible crimes. Um But you also and in Hess, you said. I have to say that what I found particularly disturbing about your offense. Ah! Was that quote you apparently concocted a story about having photographed your own daughter who you purportedly were willing to take pictures of the trade with other people. I know from your comments and from those who know you that you are unlikely to ever harm a child, which I find remarkable that you've got a child predator in your court Who says I'm unlikely to harm a child and you say, Well, you told me that so So clearly you're unlikely, but you say, but in the context of the crime You represented that you would That ain't and of itself is astonishing. So you talk about it is astonishing. You're nonetheless sentenced him to the very lowest possible sentence allowed under law and what's striking. Is in these cases and half of them in five You sentence the defendant to the absolute lowest sentence under law. Let's look at another case. Let's look at United States versus Chazen. Now. Chazen is a particularly Nasty case. In chasing the defendant was accused accessed a drop box that contained 35 videos and 13 partially downloaded files. A prepubescent minor females engaging in sexually explicit conduct. At least three of the instances a preview. Bassett female Children were engaged in sexual activity with adult men. The images included the sexual abuse of Children, including those as young as toddlers, and several of these cases that you had involved the sexual abuse of toddlers, which is truly horrifying. In this instance Chazen pleaded guilty. The guidelines recommended a sentence of 78 to 97 months. The prosecution argued that should be what the sentence was. And you sentence Chazen to just 28 months. Why did you sentence someone who had child pornography of toddlers being sexually abused? 2 28 months, 64% below what the prosecutors asked for. Thank you, Senator. You've picked out? Um I don't know. If 78 cases I've sentenced more than 100 people, but not the child pornography. In every case In every case, Senator I look at The evidence. I look at the recommendations of not just the government because my duty as a judge is to consider all of the arguments that are made in a case. I look at the evidence I talked to the defendant's about the harms that they have, uh, engaged in Many of these defendants are people who, um, judge with respect. You're You're not answering my question. You're right. You talk to them about the harms. Let me read you again from what you said at the bench. You said in this instance what with with Mr Chazen, You said among the defendants nationwide who received a below guideline sentence on the basis of a downward variance as opposed to a departure. The average sentences ranged from 84 to 92 months, So that's what you lay out as the average Our Democratic colleagues say well other federal judges sentenced below. The guidelines. That is true. A number of federal judges do Our Democratic colleagues have not pointed to a single federal judge in the country who 100% of the time sentences. Child porn defendants to markedly below what the prosecution has recommended unless you have a mandatory minimum and no ability to do so, in this case, you say Comparable defendants are sentenced to 84 to 92 months. Sentencing guidelines by statute require you to have similarly situated defendants sentenced to similar sentences, but you don't sentence chasing to 84 to 92 months. You sentenced him to 28 months. Why Senator? I've said what I'm going to say about these cases, No. One case. And stand in for a judge's entire record. Okay, But I'm discussing everyone saying, if you're not going to plate it, Senator, would you please let her respond? No, not if she's not going to answer my question, Just going to give a speech and you are not taking my time. If you want to filibuster, you're welcome to do so. But on your own least give you an opportunity to speak, and you should give her an opportunity to respond. If she wants to answer the question, I asked her, why is allowed her to answer? I asked her why she sentenced chaise into 28 months when comparable Defendants, in her own words were sentenced to substantially higher and she said she's not going to answer. Did you have an I would welcome your answer, Senator. I didn't say I'm not going to answer. I said my answer facts in this case chasing why did you sentence him to just 28 months? Senator You're looking at the record. I don't have the record here. What I will say. Is that in every case, I looked at the recommendations of not only the government but also the probation office. The defendant the record The evidence I took into account the seriousness of the offense. And by the way, you know, one of the striking things in chasin the prosecutor comes in front of you. And says This is the prosecutor's argument at this point, and the prosecutor says, I understand from my experience before your honor. Your honors. Objection Policy objections. To the to the to G tube point to sentencing guidelines. And he goes on to say, however, in this case, in particular, the four point specific offense characteristic. Is justified because it contains sadomasochistic images. Of infants and toddlers. I'm trying to understand how you see someone that possesses images of infants and toddlers. Being sexually violated, and you sentence them to 64% below. What the prosecutors asking for your you don't provide a justification. Other than a generic concerned that the guidelines are too high. You don't provide a justification as required by statute. So I'm asking you to take the opportunity to explain to this committee and the American people want 100% of the cases. You have people with vile crimes and you have language saying they're vile crimes. But then you sentence them to very, very low sentences. And why do you consistently 100% of the time choose to do that? Senator. No. One case can stand in for judges entire sentencing record. I have sentenced more than 100 people. You have eight or nine cases in that chart. Okay, Judge, you said that before. These are the eight or nine child porn cases. I will say to correct the record and just say to the judge, there's no point in responding. He's going to interrupt. Thank you. I appreciate the chairman trying to filibuster and if you don't like your witnesses, answers, you're welcome to provide your own. She is declining to answer the question and chairman Durban If you want to join her on the on the on the bench, you can But chairman Durban. My job is making Durban. I'm not interrupting your questioning. I'm asking you to give her a chance to answer, but she was consistently said she's not going to answer. I want to clarify for the record, By the way. The case I was discussing was Cooper and not Chazen. But Chazen Is The case that I was reading from your transcript was Cooper but chase and let's get to chase and I pulled the wrong tab. Chazen is equally horrifying. And you say and chasing. There's something Senator Graham asked you So the guidelines layout, different enhancements and you say repeatedly, and this is true and all your cases you say you disagree with the guidelines. You think they're wrong? And the two guidelines you disagree with his one? There's an enhancement for use of a computer. And you say the world has changed. Now. All of these are on a computer. I understand that I don't agree with you, but I understand that that is a Understandable thing to say, But the second thing you say over and over again Is there is an enhancement for the number of images. And you say repeatedly, for example, in in chasing you say whatever the state of the law and technology at the time of the guidelines were first adapted, neither the use of the computer Northern number of images. Are especially aggravating factors today. Now I find that bizarre and you say it In every case, you say the number of images. It's not an aggravating factor. It doesn't matter and you won't apply the enhancement. Do you really believe that a predator that has hundreds or thousands of images of hundreds or thousands of Children being sexually violated? Has not committed an offense that is more serious than someone that has a single picture of a single child. A single picture of a single child is horrifying, but hundreds of Children that have been violated, do you really believe that is not a more serious offense? Senator, I did not have any cases involving hundreds of thousands of pictures, hundreds or thousands. You had you had cases involving hundreds of cases involving thousands. You're right. You didn't have hundreds of thousands. And I also applied and enhancement just not to the degree of the guidelines. It's a five point enhancement of the guidelines you provide to. Yes. So not zero suggestion. Are you suggesting the number of images doesn't matter? Because you say it in court over and over again that the number of images doesn't reflect that it's a more serious crime. Do you really believe that? Senator. As I said to Senator Graham. The court is taking into account a number of circumstances. The commission has done a report about the operation of the guidelines, which enhancements actually reflect. Different levels of culpability with respect. Let me ask you, this judge. You have said the purpose of sentencing is to distinguish and distinguish between crimes that are not as serious from from truly agree GIs crimes Is that right? No Senator. So what is the purpose of sentencing? If it's not to distinguish from less serious crimes from truly egregious crimes, it is to assign proportional punishment. It is to do justice in cases. Where you have defendants who are convicted of the same conduct but have different differing levels of culpability. Well, I will point out That you have a pattern. It doesn't matter how egregious the cases. Senator Hawley talked about the Hawkins case where you had an 18 year old with pictures of boys as young as eight. Being sexually assaulted and raped and you sentence tend to just three months in jail. And I will point out the Stewart case the last one on this list because we're running out of time. The Stewart case you describe that he had over 6700 images and videos. So that's a lot 6700. That's a lot of kids being sexually assaulted. You have taken over a minute of my time, Mr Chairman, so You've been given extra time. You usually ask for it. You're giving it okay. I know you want to interrupt. I know you don't like this line of play by the rules. I know you like to interrupt, but you sound a substantial question of my time in my questioning, and I'm going to ask my questions. And you can if you want to testify. You're welcome to Senator you play with the same rules in the Stewart. Case. You said from the bench. Thus, although this is not necessarily a typical case, your child pornography possession crime was egregious in the court's view, Okay, So this is a bad one. If you're actually sentencing defendants, you said this was agree. GIs. What did you sentence Stewart for the guidelines, said 9721 months, prosecutors said 97 months you said it's agree GIs 6700 images You come in 57 minutes over that a lot of seven months in the Stewart case. Do you want to address that? Because you're claiming it's cherry picking. In fact, you're welcome to explain any of these cases. But let's take the Stewart case. Why Coons? Did you sentence him for half the amount? You're not recognize, Senator Senator, You don't want to answer that question. You wouldn't allow her anything. Mr. Chairman, She may answer the question. I've asked her why she sent in Stuart Times, senator by two minutes. Why she's because you've interrupted me for two minutes. Mr. Chairman, Will you allow her to answer the question? Or do you not want the American people to hear why? With someone she described as an egregious point, Senator, where you get a little bit Chairman Durban, Will you allow her to answer the question? You won't allow her to answer. I will happily allow her to. The question is why thank you, said Stuart and egregious child pornography possessor. To to half of the amount please requested by the prosecutor, please center Will you allow her to answer the question? Chairman Durbin, Senator Coons. Why are you not allowing her to answer the question? There's not another senator here not allowed her to answer the question. I'm not asking another question, but allow her to answer the question. Chairman Durban Thank you, Chairman. Why do you not want the American people to know what happened in the Stewart case or any of these cases Chairman Durban? I've never seen The chairman refused to allow the witness to answer a question. You can bang it as loud as you want. I can just tell you at some point you have to follow the rules. Okay, well, you let her answer the question. You've you've been interrupting. And by the way with Senator Graham, it went 10 minutes over. You've taken a big chunk of the time. Will you allow her to answer the question? You've given her. Why are you afraid of her? She is Welcome to answer it right now. Will you let her Senator Coons So, no, You don't want her to answer the question, Senator Coons, Will you let her answer the question?