This big, beautiful Samsung QN90D video. Its competition from Hisense and in some cases. So, is there any way especially when it's doing something it [Music] Let's take a second to check out this ad for TVs working in electronics retail. Look at this and that's in a 4x3 format, so more Now, adjusted for inflation, that's I hate to state the obvious, but man, now get a 98-inch TV for that kind of money. way less. In fact, TCL is selling its 98-inch it at Costco for $1,600. Let that installed, for $9,000 less than this Of course, the QN90D here is a much better TV that offers similar performance to the QN90D but well less than the $10,000 With that in mind, I feel like it's fair The whole &quot;you get what you pay for&quot; adage? Hey, real quick, y'all--I got to do one of those rest of the video that you're about to see, I that I wanted to have around &quot;premium&quot; and what That TV sales ad from 1998 reminds us that premium TV today is in line with what it competitive landscape. Hisense and TCL have selling for unbelievably low prices--so low I But I think the fundamental question here is: Well, let's list it out, and then value on the premium aspects and I'll start with build quality. The QN90D does itself--and its inclusion--is premium. You just Then there's some build quality stuff going on choices about how the TV is wired up and where together to make the TV easier to repair if it's Samsung has told me in the past, also, beef up components around common failure the quality of the power supply. Again, on less expensive TVs hopefully Then there's stuff like the remote--rechargeable Samsung is also pretty proud of the security Knox stuff. Now, I can't speak to how effective but security has been a focal point, The sound quality--you'll soon hear with this TV, but the onboard sound is Then there's Samsung's support of smart devices, and AirPlay. And then there are some you put different content side-by-side on the There's the implementation of cloud gaming which is unique. Object Tracking very effective--are unique to this Now, this is by no means an exhaustive list. but that's a pretty long list of How much of that stuff is stuff that you want, So keep that in mind as you In this review, I'm going to talk about for the past few weeks, tell you what show you one thing that it shouldn't do at all, Let's take a ride. If you missed my unboxing of the TV is built well. It's I know it seems like any 98-inch TV is going a few 98-inchers at this point, and this one I'm impressed it comes with this TV being as large as it is makes be mounted on the wall. It's pretty big it in a dedicated entertainment space, and That being the case, Samsung with a couple of feet and called it attractive pedestal stand--they built Now, there is some flex to this and I think this is unavoidable, shy But this TV is not going to topple living room with reckless abandon or Now, I'm kind of surprised not to see an array of want to call them that--lining the back of this TV. 8K TVs have it; Samsung's OLEDs get it. Why not If you're not familiar with Samsung's latest solar and USB-C, and shy on buttons. You'll be interface, which is due for a facelift soon, as I One UI--ported over from its mobile devices--over It'll still be Tizen, and Bixby will still too. Navigation is quick, as are app loading around for this TV to catch up to my clicks, and There was some time in the early hours of using being forced down my throat, and I didn't much is a bunch of free ad-supported streaming content is available, I do not want it to start I got things to the point where it just loaded up The audio system on this TV is not bad--it's though. A picture this big needs better to sell you one of its soundbars. Samsung makes some stellar soundbars. I on Samsung's Q-Symphony Sound, and I picture a whole bunch. The whole One more thing real quick--I praise Samsung where you can use the SmartThings app to it works really well. Unfortunately, though, app on my iPhone 16 Pro Max, and on my Also, I'm not a fan of the fact that other Android phones--to calibrate the TV. not gonna work. Now, I get that Samsung but not allowing any other Android Now it's time for a little segment I like to is? It's a bunch of numbers for nerds, and if problem. You can skip to the picture quality description below the like button. But for all you I used a Calibrite HL Plus, VideoForge Pro, and Calman Ultimate software and ran it the window size several times to try to In SDR filmmaker mode, the Q90D on this 98-inch numbers for other sizes later) came in filmmaker mode. If I juiced the brightness, I The two-point white balance and grayscale in SDR to the brightest whites. Here, you can see that for a picture mode with a warm color temperature the perceivable territory, with a max Delta for most of the 98-inch TVs that I've tested, so The color accuracy in SDR--well, in HDR too, phenomenally good. I got top-tier OLED numbers quite as much of the BT 2020 color space produce in the filmmaker mode were exceptionally I tested movie mode too, just for grins, and had The real difference between filmmaker mode the EOTF curve perfectly, and movie mode was which, while not accurate, is what Peak brightness numbers were not as intense as I everything maxed out, at least in filmmaker won't actually be brighter--they'll just look Now, 1,600 to 1,700 nits peak brightness is TCL and Hisense TVs are producing, which though, that I never felt like this TV though, I was surprised that I had to max out the In the end, the TV offers some stunning call this the best bright-room TV you can gold and silver in that race because So by the measurements, the Q90D is a solid with day-to-day watching? Well, let me tell watched some 18 episodes of MythBusters, five three episodes of CHiPs. I watched Interstellar on 4K Blu-ray--and about half of it again on each YouTuber golf in as well. That's all in addition And I gotta tell you, for the overwhelming on this thing, I enjoyed watching it very much. It who know me have probably already sensed that If you sense a lack of enthusiasm well, that's because I just wasn't blown &quot;I know that if I spent 10 grand on Now, to be fair, I've seen it all. there's no doubt about it. And I know that I don't know--I expected more because many of I'm telling you, something just isn't sitting that perhaps Samsung went back to putting okay. But folks, this TV came out at $15 grand. This TV, on very rare occasions, would make backlight system--99% of the time, it's awesome. it's just awesome. Very little halo or blooming. I think. Neck and neck at the very too--transitions between bright and And then there's this weirdness I'm about to than I care to count. Now, if you follow Andrew but I'm going to show you some more. This is the this? And I saw it on CHiPs too. Check it out by the way. Did you know that? Anyway, it's I saw it on Interstellar a couple Blu-ray than the YouTube stream, which is this is a processing issue. I do not believe it behave like a backlight issue. It's worse on if it is fundamentally tied to upscaling to enhance contrast. I see it most often with and they need to be big, expansive, uniform color Now, to be fair, in Interstellar, a 3-hour total. And I watched this TV for four days the percentage of time that this sort of negligible for me. But how will Bottom line: a TV this advanced and Motion too--like, most of the time, the motion especially on YouTube and even with relatively on content I have viewed on other TVs that Now, did I get a dud? I don't think so. I is not happy driving this I'll work with Samsung on this. They taking feedback and working hard to make their But for now, I guess here's my takeaway, guys: a classy TV. It will blow many of you away. Guys, guys--that's my take. I mean, I rarely when I'm talking about a premium product, wealthy folks and business owners are I just can't let it slide. I think the TV is it is going to cost this much, it needs to blow Thanks, as always, for watching, everyone. down in the comments. Please consider sharing our success than ever before. Thank you see you on the next one. And until then, here But I've handled a few 98-inchers. Oh my God.