Amy: I'm warning you, I Got him. Oh, damn, I thought he was gone. Narrator: Catching wild Burmese pythons takes serious skills. Amy: Right there. Right there. You see it? Narrator: Only 100 people are licensed to capture these snakes in Florida, where the invasive pest has Beth: It's not easy once you catch, crawling up this levy with a python. You feel it. They get tighter and tighter, like it could just pop my kneecap. Narrator: They aren't poisonous, but they have super strong bodies that they use to squeeze which could be as large as an alligator. The only way to try to from taking over is by So who are the fearless python hunters making the most out of Why is python removal And how did they get Amy: Hey, let go, let Narrator: Amy Siewe has since she began hunting in 2019. Amy: When you see that python, it's adrenaline through the roof. Do it here. Somebody grab the tail You got to pull this tight. Hurry up. Got to pull it tight. Amy: Sometimes it's an easy grab. Sometimes it's a battle. You just never know what So it keeps it very exciting. Narrator: She taught herself and often does it at home. She uses pool salt to preserve it until she can send it to a tannery. Amy: We have to put it on thick enough so it'll get in all of And that is a snake roll. Narrator: In 2019, she of python leather, turning the skin into Amy: I hate that we have to kill them. That is the worst part There's no other choice. So I've kind of made out how to use as much of the python as possible, Narrator: Back in the 1980s, as exotic pets. They were imported from Southeast Asia, and newspaper ads priced them Then in 1992, dozens of Burmese pythons escaped a breeding facility when Hurricane Andrew hit. And their spread has been because they have no real predators here in the Florida Everglades, one of the largest wetlands on the planet. The biggest one ever found 18 feet long, and was The snakes swallow their prey whole, and while they rarely attack humans, they're killing all from small birds to large alligators. In 2012, populations of foxes and marsh and cottontail because of pythons. McKayla: We are finding those including some endangered species and federally threatened species, such as the endangered Key Largo woodrat and the federally threatened wood stork. Narrator: Now, licensed remove about 5,000 pythons a year from the Everglades. They start hunting after sunset, because that's when snakes Narrator: Only licensed python hunters and government officials are allowed to drive through There's virtually no cell so they use a satellite radio. And if a serious injury were to happen, they would need to be airlifted out. Spotting a python is hard, Beth: I'll see a python, and it's moving, and we'll get in that area, and you might as well step I mean, it's amazing how well they can camouflage themselves into this. Narrator: Still, they to their full-time job grooming dogs. Beth: We've been in business and it's a lot of work. That job is hard work. It makes this look like a cakewalk. Narrator: But it takes patience. Often they can hunt all night It's like regular life. Hours and hours of boredom, and then minutes of pure adrenaline. Let's go get some pythons. I'm looking for, like, like a water bottle or a piece of glass. The light will catch You're scanning the You know there might be an There might be a cottonmouth nearby. Narrator: We followed them on three hunts before they finally spotted a python. Peggy: Right there. Right there. You see it? Beth: Yeah. Narrator: Then it's all hands on deck. They keep the snakes on the ground. Lifting it in the air would scare it. Peggy: It's a battle. You've got to wear it out and, you know, and get it calmed down, so you can get it in the bag. So you're sweating. It's very hot. Even the smallest python, you will be shocked at the strength. They're nothing but muscle. Keep going. Keep it tight. Narrator: Florida's pays hunters by the hour All right, almost 9-footer. Peggy: Is it $50 for the first 4 feet, and then an additional $25 So like, a 5-foot snake is $75. Narrator: But they don't The state decides whether they'll or if it'll be used for research. They double-bag it and All right, lock her up. I grew up down here, the impact these pythons Narrator: Peggy and Beth after they participated in the Florida Python Challenge in 2016. That's a 10-day event and get a cash prize for catching a snake. Animal rights groups like because they say it allows to &quot;go barging about in forests and swamps on a macho mission to kill.&quot; But the FWC does require participants to take an online course before the hunt. McKayla: She's backing can I get away from her? Narrator: And biologists euthanizing the snakes is the only way to control the problem. McKayla: We've always had people asking, &quot;Have you thought about re-homing them? Could we send them back Well, you know, remember, in a whole different ecosystem. They could have different so we really can't ship McKayla: Her not striking is a Ooh, got her. Narrator: She works for the FWC and showed us how hunters can McKayla: The second I had her I reached in and grabbed. If she goes around my leg, of like, why I give her She's actually staying probably because that But I've got my leg here. I'm not sitting on her. Just to be clear, I don't and I tell people, don't ever sit on them. Don't put any weight. Sometimes they'll just once you start to feed them in there. There we go. And then a little bit more of a coil. All right. We'll just feed her in there. So she goes in here. We'll stick that top on. Narrator: Since the snakes some python hunters to preserve the legacy. Amy: They're amazing creatures. They're beautiful. It's not their fault they're here. They're just doing what pythons do. Narrator: Amy says her of honoring the reptiles. Amy: This is a skin that has some scars on it, from the python being in the wild. You know, they get bitten by alligators. They get clawed by bears. They get in fights with The cool thing about this is that if you get a product that is made out of, with this scar in it, it is the only one like it in the world, and You know that you're when you are taking these animals out. Peggy: Well, I just try to remind myself that for the greater good, a lot of natives are going to live. I can remove one python a chance at a good life.