In this episode of MarieTV we do have some So if you have little ones around, grab your Hey, it's Marie Forleo and you are watching and life you love. And you are in for such a treat today. We are sitting down with one of my friends we're gonna have a very important conversation the rest of your life. Dr. Brene Brown is a research professor at the Huffington Foundation Brene Brown endowed Brene's TED talk is one of the top five 30 million views. She spent the past 16 years studying courage, the author of three number one New York Times Greatly, and Rising Strong. In addition to her writing and research, Brene an organization that brings evidence-based entrepreneurs, and culture shifters. Her latest book, Braving the Wilderness: The Stand Alone, is available now. Brene! Hi! Hi! Oh, my gosh. I love you so much. I love you too. We've wanted to do this I feel like for said, "Girl, can you come to Texas?" Did you go to Buc-ee's? I went to Buc-ee's. I made her come just - I made her come just I - so short aside before we get into the Okay? The amazingness of this new book, which this have all these little orange tabs in there. So as an aside - come to Texas, driving station so big in my life. And I heard about Buc-ee's, and I go into of goodness. Yeah. It's like tires, raincoats, fudge. Squeaky pigs. You got it. And then the one thing, which I will show a - it's this beautiful stone piece where a spigot. And I was like that's the kind of gift a You gotta trust Buc-ee's. You gotta trust Buc-ee's. My husband and I are always waiting to see I'm like the day - we're buying in. So, okay, getting to the real, real stuff. I want to start, first of all, this book is I texted you that it made such an impact on I think this is the message of our time and it. I want to start with the Maya Angelou quote "You are only free when you realize you - no place at all. The price is high. The reward is great." Let's dig in with, what does true belonging Why now? You know, Maya Angelou has been my most steadfast I discovered her probably 30 years ago when You know how when you find those people that but they also bring you joy and comfort? She's that for me. And I love everything she does, except for That quote has pissed me off for decades. And I never understood this idea that you're And as a social scientist I know that belonging Like if you ask me the one thing I know for in the absence of love and belonging there's That I know for sure. So this quote from her about belonging everywhere, was so troubling to me. But then I starting digging in and I started belong? And I never thought of the concept of belonging. I thought belonging was like we have a crew. Like a posse. Yeah. A posse, a squad. And belonging to something you kind of negotiate not. What I found very quickly is the rest of that she did where she - with Bill Moyers where a little bit on and saying, "So are you And she said, "I belong to Maya." And what I found is that true belonging is ability to find sacredness in both being a stand alone. And the people - for those of us who struggle when we know that it risks - we're risking we disagree. Yes. Because we have a different opinion, because That's the mark of true belonging. To be able to say, "yes, I am a part of when I need to." And then it was like, "Oh, shit. You belong everywhere and nowhere, and that Yeah. So "braving," which has shown up in previous Can you walk us through? For anyone who is not familiar with the acronym does this help us stay connected to ourselves So braving is all about trust. And so probably three or four years ago in this is something people don't know about I probably spend 90% of my time inside big That's what I do most of the time. And so in working with leaders, one of the Trust building in teams. Building trust in a culture. The thing that's hard about trust is if like really upset because I got passed over Brene, you're doing great work but there The minute you say anything that I can perceive trust me," we go completely limbic. We go completely out of listening with our to fight, flight, freeze, defend. Because our trust is our integrity. It's who we are. So I kept wondering, like when we talk about Like, what can you - what could you call be more helpful, more impactful and productive trust you?" So we dug into the data to figure out what And what I found are there are seven elements trust. And these are observable and measurable. These are what we can talk about with each So "braving" is the acronym we use. B is boundaries. You set boundaries. When you don't know what they are, you ask. You're clear about what's okay and not Yeah. Boundaries are really hard. Reliability is the R. You do what you say The big, hard thing about reliability is you're completely over committing and not delivering. Yes. That's the reliability issue. A is accountability. You don't back-channel and blame. You hold people accountable in a straightforward V, which I think is really interesting, is Oh, the vault. Can we talk about the vault for a second? Yeah, the vault. The vault is so huge because in this culture all the time. Like "I'm gonna tell you something and Right. It has to stay in the vault. And once that goes, if anyone violates that, shuts down in me. Oh, it does. It's hard to come back from it. What people don't understand about the vault you call me in and you - "I don't understand You say, "look, we've got some trust issues Specifically I want to talk about confidentiality And I look at you like, "Marie, I have never in the 10 years we've known each other." And you look back at me and say, "yes, but things with me that are not yours to share." It's the other side of confidentiality. It is not only do you not talk out of school You don't come in here and say, "Hey, look. I know what's going on with John. Blah, blah, blah." Or, "This is what's happening with..." So - because when I do that - and I do as a bid for connection, let me tell you what's But when I walk out of the office, you trust not mine as currency. Yes. So we've got the vault. Then we go to I, integrity, which is choosing Practicing your values. And this is a big one. I think we have this in common, and I love It's choosing what's right over what's Yeah. You know, we have a culture of fun, fast, We have a culture of people who don't do discomfort. And that's - I've never achieved a single Absolutely, 100%. Yeah. And then we go to N for nonjudgment. You can ask for help without feeling judged And then Generosity, which I think is probably Which is when something happens I assume positive So if things go sideways between us I'm I'm so pissed off." I go and say, let me assume the best. "Help me understand what happened, Marie. I thought we had a plan around this." Yes. And I give you a chance, a benefit of the Yeah. I think that one's probably the most difficult The one I can see where I instantly jump to worst possible scenario. I did it with my family the other night. Like my parents weren't responding to a narrative about what that meant until they groceries." And I'm like there. It happened again. We do it all day every day. I mean, I have a story. You know, that's human nature. That's wiring. In the absence of data we will always make Yes. And so I think for Braving the Wilderness, times when we stand alone and those times away from what we know, our ideological bunkers us manage the wilderness. It's so useful and it's so concrete and Yeah, it's a checklist. It's like we can hold that - I can hold with me and am I feeling good about how I'm And that brings me, I think one of the most this book, but what I want to move on to is Move in. This concept of rehumanizing not dehumanizing, It got me in the gut. Especially what's happening now in our world. There's something that you wrote and I want that I've struggled in the past few years not knowing how to invite people into a conversation, and my own angers and how I would like the You wrote, "If you are offended or hurt called a bitch, a whore, or the c-word, you hear those same words used to describe Ivanka When the President of the United States calls we should get chills down our spine and resistance When people call the President of the United regardless of our politics and demand discourse I want that to be everywhere. God, it's so hard! It's so hard. It's like I wanna take your iPad and just Yeah, it's hard as hell because let me tell it and as I've witnessed it. Dehumanization is a very slippery, dangerous We are actually hardwired neurobiologically It goes against our human nature to treat torture, degradation, humiliation. It actually goes against who we are. And we're wired that way to protect the We're a social species. We need each other. We're completely dependent on each other. The process of dehumanization is the process and images, nothing more. Dehumanization is the process of slowly moving I want to use this table as an example, or So here's a group of people that we want It's a group of people that we hate, a group this tea right here, is the cause of all your So we hate these people and we want to hurt But they're within this moral, protective So slowly over time we start using words and move them slowly and slowly and slowly into They no longer are protected by what we believe And we see the process of dehumanization at The Nazis used I think the word is untermunchen. It's subhuman, to describe Jews. Every conflict you can see. And so what's happening in our country right Yup. No one has high ground here. We are slowly allowing ourselves to start with whom we disagree. Yes. Which then makes it okay to physically hurt And when we use dehumanizing language, it we're railing against. And I think honestly it chips away at our I agree with you 10,000%. That's why this hit me so hard, because I started to make this connection through lights came on. And I said, "Oh, my God. This is so true. This is so right." So I'm so happy that we're talking about about this, about dehumanization and rehumanization really difficult conversations, and we're But to retain our dignity and the humanity Yeah, and I think, here's the thing, dehumanization It is emotional offloading. It is gratuitous. It is self-indulgent. It is a way to offload our anger, our fear, social justice. Right. So moving on, staying in the same zone, another "Is there tension and vulnerability in supporting Hell yes. It's the wilderness. But most criticism comes from people who are us for not hating the wrong people." This is where I see so much pain and conflict, business. I'm paying attention to conversations on And even when someone is trying to open up and "if you're not with us you're against No. And I'm wondering if you can speak to this about conflict transformation and how do we I know it's a lot, so we'll go... No, no. It's like, you know, I don't know the answer What I do know is - because it's scary. It's scary for me and you. I have a bachelor's, master's, and PhD Like, I was trained in this language, in these I've studied dehumanization for 10 years and something that's happening, I'm scared Because here's what I know. I know that I'm not going to do it perfectly. Right. I know that not only the people who oppose after me, but I know that the people who I after me because I'm gonna do it imperfectly. Yes. But opting out of speaking out because we of privilege. Like "I don't really have to speak out because my kids seem pretty safe. You know, I'm not getting pulled over, I'm So to opt out because it's safe is what And so the way I think we have the conversation curiosity and you say "here's what I believe. Let me spare you coming back and telling me I know it's gonna be imperfect." Yeah. "But I'm not going to let my imperfection it's too important." And here's the thing that I live by and live by. At the end of the day, at the end of the week, say that I contributed more than I criticized. And so if all you're doing is criticizing that heal and bring hope, shut up. I mean, really just don't talk. Because it's not useful. It's not useful. I loved, you know, this is gonna air a little Yes. That's how the world of video works. But you recently did a Facebook Live, we did thought it was so wonderful because I was you know, where there were places where people a particular phrase. And there were so many people that were coming to discuss this with you. You can PM me." But there was a quality in the intention of It felt like an invitation. It felt like, "hey, I want to share a viewpoint before." And it almost brought tears to my eyes, because It's amazing. It was amazing, right? It was amazing. And we're talking about 10,000 comments. Yes. But here's the thing, that's hard fought. We absolutely - we don't curate the comments, And I'm very clear about that. Can you talk about that distinction? Because I think especially in our audience friends in this space, people who are authors, the privilege of having an audience, and I I certain - that's why I'm asking these To have tools. Because a lot of folks are like "I want And I think what you said is so key here, and you walk into these conversations still Oh, my God. Oh, completely vulnerable. In fact, when I taped that Facebook Live on the first 10 minutes of it. Like I didn't know if I was gonna be able I didn't notice that, just so you know. And it was a full schedule taping day of other And it was scheduled to be taped in the afternoon. I said, as soon as I got there in the morning, so heavy on my heart and I'm so afraid that out of doing it." Yeah. So for me it's about this. This is my space on Facebook. You can have your - everybody can have their In my space, you can disagree, we can debate, other people. You're not going to name call and you're If you do, I'm probably gonna ask you once the page. And I do not think there are enough spaces There are some people who do it really well. TED does it really well. Because it's kind of comments are moderated comment there, the community. So they'll vote you off the island I guess But I'm not gonna tolerate that, because Yes. Now, if someone says like, "Hey, Brene. You're wrong and I totally disagree and answer. I can't answer all of them but I'm gonna it. If they come on and say, "I hate you and get killed," you can delete it. I mean, like it's just... Yeah. Why contribute? Yup. And I know - so I don't think it's curated, Yeah. No, I think it's really important. We do - it's a different thing because but in our B-School community I have such why?" And I'm like, look, negativity is toxic. We can debate ideas, we can talk about different we will not trash talk other programs, other No. Like, let's keep it - and it's amazing and true growth can happen when you take care Yeah. It's Jill Bolte Taylor who said, "take a room." And I feel like what people don't do online for the energy they put out into the world. And in the worst case scenario what they're from their identity. They're - it's anonymous. Yeah. So I respond to nothing that's anonymous. So if you've got some kind of flower icon Sassy Pants. Yes. Sassy Pants 123, I'm not responding to you, You're not showing up. You're not being brave. So I'm not gonna have the conversation. Yeah. And I think what I've been watching too you know, when people - there's also like And I think there's probably a distinction and shaming people, because it's not a way You're not gonna get folks to actually engage you're making them wrong. No. I mean, shaming - look, shame never drives What shame drives is rage, anger, rationalization, And so if you're looking at kind of the who are marching around towns and you say, tell you. If they weren't ass-high in shame already, hatred. Is it my job to heal them and take care of Nah. No. But I'm not going to contribute to it. I'm not gonna say, "Look, they're on Let me throw some gasoline on it." If there's no - and the other thing is, you. Like, it hurts you. It's part of - it's hard to shame people I'm just not going to do what. What I am for is holding people accountable. And that ... but the thing is, and this is accountable is not as much fun and does not against people and shaming people do. So when you post something, some hideous meme wearing you know, it feels good. Like, you feel "like look at me." You know, your anger has someplace to go. It does nothing but to contribute to the vitriol. It does nothing. Nothing. And so shame begets shame in the same way It's not the answer. Is the answer to coddle - and so this what "Oh, Brene doesn't want us to shame anyone. She wants us to coddle people." Well, if the only two tools that you have a sorry-ass tool bag. You need to upgrade your tool bag. Yeah. There's like 500 things between... You need to go to Buc-ee's. Go to Buc-ee's. Get a big basket. Get you a Texas sized toolbag that has things social justice. Yes. I think that's interesting too. And one of the things that I try to hold true, I fuck up all the time. But I try and promote what I'm standing You know what I mean? Giving people a concrete action. "Okay, what can we do?" I think that's just intrinsic to my DNA. I'm a doer. Yeah. And I always want to do something. I go how can we direct ourselves collectively? Like what are the actions we can take right help move things forward? So I think one of them is start having the with your partner, with your colleagues. Start having the conversations. Don't go in as the teacher. Go in with curiosity and generosity. What do you think about what's going on? Questions like this. Like, this is a great email I got. She - someone wrote after the Facebook Live use the word white supremacists. I could barely get through your Facebook Live. But then when my husband came home I said it, and so he watched it. And he like kinda shifted a lot and grunted," mid forties. And he said, "Well, what do you think?" And he said, "Well," and then we just My 17-year-old son came home, we started talking down and trying to figure out what we emotionally the world would be different in 24 hours. Yeah. I mean, it really is going to take a million this. When you're at work and someone says a joke instead of laughing and walking away or just just look and say, "Jesus." I mean, you don't have to say, "I'm really and sisters," because people can't hear You can say, "Jesus, that's not funny." Or like, "Hey, dude, if you have to hurt Yeah. That's it. I mean, if a million of us did that, if a really understand Black Lives Matter. I don't really get it. I want to try to understand it. I don't want to try to protect myself from I just want to try to understand it." Maybe 200,000 may change their mind. Maybe 800,000 will keep the same opinion. But there will be a shift in the consciousness Yeah. That's why your work is so important. Okay. I am shifting gears here. Okay. Taking a hard right. Yeah. I'm going. One of my other favorite parts of the book conferences wanting you to like stick to certain Don't talk about your faith or wanting you Or the one that really got me, of course, Yeah. And another Maya saying, quote, something I would just love to hear about your journey I've struggled with. You know, I've adjusted things on my show moms like, "Oh, I watch with my two-year-old." And so I'm like am I gonna really drop an Gonna try and put warnings. I'm just so curious about your journey with Like, are people still telling you like, "don't you don't drop a little s-bomb?" Not as much as they were and less than they I mean, they read this probably, because it's two things are "don't talk about faith." Because when I talk - when I do a lot of your personal values, and my two personal And so they say "don't talk about faith, It's - this is a, you know, a corporation." And then I'll do a lot of work in churches, And so I just got to the point where I'm and thousands of people over the last two things you can imagine. And the two things that everyone has in common are cussing and praying. If you don't want me to cuss and you don't Ask somebody else. Because what I'm not going to do is get And there are a million people in this space things than I do. Invite them. If you need me to wear a suit, that's - I I'm not gonna do that. Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna wear jeans and boots and probably But I'm not gonna do that. Because I don't get up there. When I speak in public, I don't get up there Brothers self to your Brooks Brothers self. I get up there and when I walk on the stage the people in the audience have never thought to. And they need to see me as a person. And I'm just that person. Yeah. And so I'm not gonna walk in with like a Well, I don't know how you define that, but will. Liz Gilbert and I showed up together at an and clogs and like smartwool socks. And we were like, "Hey, camper." Yes. So I do kind of look like a therapist convention. But, yeah. It's just - I think the clear - I want, leadership team, I want it to be successful. Yes. You know? And if you need me to be someone different You need to ask somebody else. Yeah. A decade ago, I've done that. Yeah. You know, and then I get offstage, I'm crying, I'm a total asshole. I just spent 90 minutes talking about authenticity, You know? Like, I'm not gonna do that. Yeah. That's part of the reason too in the early 15 years ago some folks were like, "Oh, But we want you to be more this." Yeah."We want you to be..." I was like oh, hell no. This is why I'm doing MarieTV on the internet, But that's the thing that people I don't getting started out in this business who wanna wisdom, amen. Do it. We need more of that. And be careful, beware, of shiny objects. Because I've had the same conversation about "oh, that sounds great. And I'm gonna talk to this person who studies And they're like, 'No, no. You'll be hustling up the Kardashians doing Yes. Like, that I'm not gonna do. Yes. Like, I got - yeah. Not that, you know, God bless them. Totally. But it's not what you - it's not a - your And there's this part from Braving the Wilderness It's the practice that came from the book looking for evidence that you don't belong, Yes. "Don't walk through the world looking for you'll always find it." Our worth and our belonging are not negotiated We carry those inside of our hearts. And so for me, I know who I am. I'm clear about that and I'm not going I will negotiate a contract with you. I will negotiate maybe even a topic with you. But I'm not going to negotiate who I am the heart of the book, then I may fit in for And that is a betrayal I'm not willing to I spent the first 30 years of my life doing I'm not willing to betray myself anymore I just can't do it. This, I mean, I don't think I said it. I might have said it at the opening, but I This is my little galley copy, but this is You guys have to get this book for yourself, And I'm gonna maybe put you on the spot Yeah. If you could be open to reading this last I was in tears with this one. Yes. Oh, yeah. So this is the close of the book. Yeah. Okay. "I'll leave you with this. There will be times when standing alone feels ability to make our way through the uncertainty. Someone somewhere will say 'don't do it. You don't have what it takes to survive the This is when you reach deep into your wild You are the wilderness. I love you. Love you too. You know what I was gonna say? I am the fucking wilderness. Amen. She's gonna make me cry. You are the fucking wilderness. Me too. Yeah. And that's not comfortable for everyone, It's not. That's who we are. That's why they call it the wild. Yeah. Yeah. And I love this. I love the fact that people are afraid of you'll find some people like us out there. And it's so free. It's so free. And it feels so good. We'll be dancing. I was gonna say, we are gonna be frolicking. With our Buc-ee squeaky pigs and everything Thank you for having me. Thank you. And now Brene and I would love to hear from So this is probably one of my favorite conversations So much ground that we covered. But we would love to know, what was most impactful Whether it was one thing or three things, Now, as always, the best conversations happen so head on over there and leave a comment And when you're there, be sure to subscribe You'll get some exclusive content and special don't share anywhere else. Stay on your game and keep going for your special gift that only you have. Thank you so much for watching and we'll B-School is coming up. Want in? For more info and free training go to JoinBSchool.com. "Oh, Brene doesn't want us to shame anyone. She wants us to coddle people." Well, if the only two tools you have in a sorry-ass tool bag. You need to upgrade your tool bag. You need to upgrade, yeah, coddle. You need to got to Buc-ee's. Yes! Get a big basket ... And get you a Texas-sized tool bag.