Trebuchet Park, in Albarracin, is the world's largest showcase for reproductions of war machines that span a wide variety of eras and cultures. 48 machines represent siege devices from the 7th century BC to the 15th century AD. A growing project that Ruben Saez has made possible. My research on siege engines began 10 years ago when I did my doctoral thesis. That 's when I began to realize that the information we were working on was very scarce, very limited information, and I decided to build a machine to begin to demonstrate those theories that siege engines had. The first of the machines that I built was the Caminreal scorpio-type catapult since I had access to the archaeological remains that are preserved in the Teruel museum, they were very close and I could consult them first hand. Starting from that machine, because I decided to continue researching in the Roman world, I rebuilt several more machines until I had an exhibition that began to travel. Later I decided to see how this technology evolved in the Middle Ages and I was creating new medieval machines up to what we see today. There are 50 machines, but this is the beginning, we have material to be able to rebuild another 300 different machines. A visit to the exhibition allows you to enjoy siege engines from ancient Greece and Rome to the Middle Ages shown through different cultures. The first of the Greek machines that we are going to see is this one. It is a hand battering ram, it is a wooden beam that has been sharpened and used to hit the walls by swinging it. It is a very simple but very effective design. In fact, even today the police continue to use small hand rams because the point of impact is concentrated on a very specific site, with which the devastating power is enormous. It has ropes that are passed through rings that are what allow the machine to swing. To operate this machine, six soldiers would be needed and it would be the simplest design we have in the Greek world. This model would be a ram with wheels, it is a direct evolution of the hand rams but with the addition that it has a chassis with wheels that acts to move it. One of the originalities of the machine is that the wooden head that the Previous examples were modified with the addition of a metal reinforcement piece so that the wood would not crack, and another interesting element is the fork wheels, a reverse universal joint system in such a way that it is similar to the current shopping carts, which allows the wheels to rotate 360 degrees horizontally, being able to direct the machine towards different places. This creates enormous versatility and gives the machine incredible mobility. This is the first flamethrower in history, it consists of three very well differentiated elements. A bellows at the back that was the one that pushed the air, a wooden beam that had been sawn in half and the heart had been hollowed out to make the effect of the tube and then they had reassembled it and then in the front part a cauldron Where did the incendiary substances go? Then the operation of the machine is very simple. The bellows pushed the air out, the air went through the tube and pushed the flames at the front like a giant blowtorch. It may seem that it is a rather rudimentary machine, but it must be taken into account that this machine is from the 5th century BC, this machine is 2,500 years old and it is from a historical moment in which the first catapult had not even been invented. Its use was for field counterfortifications, above all, in which wood prevailed, and when wood has been out in the open for a long time, everyone knows that it is very dry, it would burn like tinder, it would burn with enormous ease. And that led to this machine being widely used and above all it had a very specific purpose: attack against wooden fortifications. We are next to another model of ram. This would be a very primitive ram, all those designs that do not have a gabled roof to protect the soldiers are very primitive because the soldiers who operated them were very exposed to the enemy fire that fell from the top of the walls. We see the ram's head again, always a ram's head, in this case, very schematic. Unlike other wedge-shaped models, which were designed to break the stones and ashlars of the wall, this one is much flatter, so its objective was to move them, not break them. This is a model of a Roman battering ram, its technical name is &quot;aries prensilis&quot; and it is a model of the ones used in the Roman army at the beginning of time during the republican period, the first centuries of the republic that later evolved their designs even covered models. Here we have a mantlet or protective shield. It is a machine that was carried by two soldiers, each one put his arm in one of the handles and grabbed the upper part and what he did was get closer to the foot of the wall in such a way that when they reached their destination both fell down. legs that we see at the back and was anchored to the ground. Thus they could be working behind protected from enemy fire. It is a kind of mobile palisade that can be moved closer and further away from the city walls that are always fixed. The machine next to us is a wrecking crow. This machine was used in combination with the first rams. Thanks to the hooks on its front , it was used to remove the stones from the wall once they had been moved. The previous step was for the battering rams to hit the stones of the wall, once they were already moved, this stone was used to hook the stones and tear them out, it is a machine that is used to clear debris. And that it was fundamental in the tasks of challenging the walls because it was the one that allowed the clean cut to be kept and the workers to continue removing stones. Here we have the first model of the onager, it is another piece of torsion artillery, it is a piece of heavy artillery, it is the quintessential piece of the Roman Imperial era, unlike the previous and best-known models throughout the world that come with the upper part a spoon, this one, the firing mechanism has a hook with a sling where the projectile was placed when fired, released the rope and threw the stone. It is a heavy machine, quite heavy, it would throw 2-kilo stones at a distance of 300-350 meters, it is such a heavy model that when firing it, it had to be anchored to the ground because the machine jumped more or less, around the half a meter high due to recoil. Hence the name onager, the onager is a wild ass, nowadays called an onager. It is a wild donkey that still lives in the area of Syria, when the Romans went to catch it, it kicked and jumped. Hence the name of this onager machine. Here we have a late onager. It is a piece of Roman artillery, it is the quintessential Roman artillery piece of the late empire, its technology is based on torsion, the power of the machine is generated by a skein of ropes around a frame, specifically this machine has 400 meters of rope, it is arranged in a horizontal axis in the center of which the arm is inserted. It is a more advanced model than the previous ones from the 2nd century AD, it adds the advantage that it has wheels for transport and also the spoon. The spoon is enormously important because it allows you to throw not only round stones as up to now, but also allows you to throw practically anything. In some cases what was done, instead of throwing a very heavy stone, was to throw small caliber stones to generate a kind of hailstorm similar to the mortars used in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. It is a fairly powerful machine with a fairly large caliber and would throw 2 kilo stones at a distance of 250-300 meters. This machine is a pluteo, it is a protective machine, it has the shape of an apse wall, as if it were an apse, a displacement system by means of three wheels, with a fork system in such a way that the wheels rotate 360 degrees horizontally . This allows the machine to be oriented in different directions without having to continually correct the trajectory. It has a drop leg, the drop leg object is very important, so that, if some very heavy object hit the machine, it would not knock it over on the soldiers who were working behind it. It moved by means of these two handles, the soldiers grasped it and could push it freely. This machine is called a vine, it is called a vine because of the shape it has, like the vines in the fields. It is a protective machine, it has the shape of a gabled roof and was used by the attackers to unite the positions of the besieging camp with the foot of the wall. In such a way that they could move inside and approach the wall always protected. It has a gabled roof and a wooden roof and reed sides, all of it would be covered with raw skins so that the fire would not burn on its structure and it is a quite useful machine, above all, because it generated a lot of uncertainty in the enemy, not knowing if there was a soldier inside or not. This machine was joined one after the other, forming a kind of corridor, like a long tunnel could, as it goes by modules, you could add all the modules you considered necessary until you got close to the foot of the wall. Here we have a muscle. This machine was used to practice mine warfare. The soldiers went inside and began to dig tunnels. It takes so many portable panels to be able to remove the earth as it was being excavated. The mines could have a double purpose. The first was to dig a tunnel under the walls and, in the middle of the night, enter the enemy city with a commando-type operation. And the second of the objectives, which was the most usual, was to use the mines to bring down the walls. How were the walls brought down? What was done was to build a tunnel, as the tunnel progressed, a wooden support was put in, similar to the one that is still put in mining today, when the mines reached the foundations of the wall, the direction gallery changed and the ran longitudinally below, also placing those beams and struts. Once there was a sufficient section of walls hanging, which was done, the entire tunnel was filled with firewood and incendiary substances and set on fire. When all the supporting props burned , the walls collapsed under their own weight. Hence, different strategies were used to pinpoint the location of enemy mines. One was to put bronze shields on the ground, on the entire internal part of the walls, on the entire internal perimeter in such a way that at the slightest vibration they immediately moved they could put containers with water. The object of the containers with water was that the vibrations in their water were noticed very quickly and even the slightest movement was noticeable. You could also put drums upside down in some cases because they sounded when you were digging. Once you knew where the enemy mine was, what you had to do was dig the tunnel to meet the enemy. Roman engineers soon realized that the soldiers manning the battering rams were highly exposed to enemy fire. Pretty much everything got thrown off the top of the walls. So what they did was design this system with a gabled roof, a very steep slope, in such a way that, by offering little angle to the impacts, the stones and any object thrown from the top of the walls fell from both sides. of the machine without impacting its structure. These machines always have a ram's head, why? Well, because the ram is an animal that is always bumping, there are also a series of mythological components, although we see all these machines outwardly made of wood, we have to imagine that all these machines would be covered with raw skins. Raw skins are has shown that fire does not burn, with which all of them would be isolated. Because if they weren't made of wood, in the face of incendiary weapons, they would burn quite easily. The Eastern world has shown in its history to have a long list of curious war machines such as the hook car. We find ourselves next to a hook cart. This is a Chinese machine that was used to try to remove the stones from the wall. The arm with the hook swung and rose to let it fall on the crests of the wall, once it had hooked a part of the wall, it made the machine go back in such a way that it started. In the case of Chinese fortifications, many are pagoda-type, where wood predominates, because the effect was even more devastating because the effect could be done as if it were an axe. Drop it and cut part of the walls and then rip them off. The head that we have here next to us weighs 100 kilos, its power can be increased if weight is placed in this part, hanging weights, sandbags, the more weight on the head, the more impact power. Here we are next to a battery of whirlwind stone throwers. It is a design that is based on the individual whirlwind models. Inside this machine, five individual type artillery pieces are mounted in such a way that the chassis rotates 360 degrees and each of the heads can also be oriented towards different places. That allowed sustained fire on a point or disperse it in space. Each of the heads could shoot a stone every eight seconds, which makes this machine throw around 35 stones per minute. Although they are small stones, around a kilo, kilo and a half, they would have enough caliber to be lethal as an anti-personnel weapon. This machine is from the Middle Ages, although its initial design began around the VII century AD. We are on a mobile mantle. The main characteristic of the Chinese tablecloths is their main mobility, not only because of the chassis with wheels that already gives mobility to the machine, but also because it has this universal joint system, which is a system that allows the pivoting arm to pivot as much in the height as in the horizontal 360 degrees, with which the possibilities of protection of this machine were increased. It was especially interesting to protect at height, since if the machine was raised, a kind of panel could be created in front of the walls allowing the soldiers to climb the stairs. Once they were going to reach the crests, the mantle was removed and they could jump inside the walls, being protected during their entire ascent. The defenders to try to counteract this machine could use different devices. Both from spiked wheel winches and they could even try to burn them or even snap the ropes. the forms of defense against this machine were quite curious and very numerous. We are next to another Chinese manual traction machine. In this case it has a very peculiar name, it is called crouching tiger. The operation is identical to all manual traction machines. The soldiers pulled from the ropes, in such a way that when the arm became vertical, it threw the projectile. It is a medium-small caliber machine, it throws eight kilogram stones, around 180 meters away. It would be one of the smallest examples of what Chinese machines are. But it does present the peculiarity that it has four legs, in such a way that, when anchored to the ground, after tying them they gave greater stability to the machines than those with a much smaller base. We are next to a machine throws whirlwind stones. This machine is very peculiar because it is the first model of hand-drawn artillery piece to be invented in the Chinese world. It allows the head to rotate 360 degrees thanks to the piece that we have at the top. It is a small caliber machine, it could practically be operated by three or four people and that led to it being the most widely used, above all, as an anti-personnel machine. We are on a compound scale. This is a large size Chinese assault scale model , it wears two bodies, consists of two bodies. The first one is the one I am willing to use and then we would have another one that is located at the top and unfolds like trellis stairs, by means of a rotating movement until one ladder rests on the other. When the two scales are unfolded, they give twelve meters of height, which would be the equivalent for to be able to take a city whose walls measured around eight meters, eight and a half meters. It needs six wheels because its weight is considerable, in such a way that the weight is cushioned much more. As you can see, the way to go up this staircase is very simple thanks to the fact that it has an inclination that is not very great. Inside this shed that goes on the lower floor of the assault ladder, there were units of crossbowmen. Their task was to open fire on the walls as the machine advanced to cover fire and try to eliminate as many enemies as possible before the soldiers who were climbing the ladder reached the top of the walls. . These ropes that we have on both sides were the ones that allowed the ladder to unfold, they were pulled from behind the machine and when the second body of ladder was pulled, it unfolded on top of the walls. We are under a large caliber machine, it is a mobile traction blunderbuss. It is the Chinese machine of this type of technology with the largest dimensions that could be built. Its height is 16 meters when the arm is unfolded, which would be the equivalent of a house around five stories high. It has a chassis with wheels, it has four wheels aligned on two different axes. The head rotates 360 degrees, with which the fire can be directed towards different points. Allows you to aim and cover a wide front line. It is a very powerful machine, it requires 50-60 people to put it into operation and it would throw stones weighing at least 20 kilos, but there are documented specimens that would need up to 500 people to be put into operation. Manual traction technology came from the Chinese world to the Muslim world through the nomadic peoples who lived between the two territories. Hence the similarity of some of their machines. We find ourselves sheltering inside a Muslim dabbabah or caterpillar. It is one of the protective machines used by the Muslim armies for the approach maneuvers to the walls. Like other protective models, it has a gabled roof with a lot of inclination, so that the projectiles would slide down the sides and not hit the soldiers who were working inside. Although this machine is protective, it can be given an offensive character by placing a battering ram inside it. The only thing that would have to be done was to add some supports so that the batter could balance and thus combine the defensive character with the offensive one. Thanks to its four-wheeled chassis, it allows a very fast approach to the foot of the wall, so that the soldiers were less exposed to enemy fire. We found ourselves protected behind a karwah. This machine is a very simple machine, it is a kind of fixed mantlet behind which the soldiers were arranged. The main characteristic of these Muslim mantles is that they are all padded. Apart from the traditional skins that this type of machine always carried, on the front, inside it is padded with wool, in such a way that the projectiles, especially those of stone, they would be very cushioned by acting as an airbag. All these Muslim tablecloths that we find here, this particular tablecloth is contemporary with other Christian models. Perhaps it is so padded precisely because the Christians had great firepower, so it was intended to counteract the impact of very heavy projectiles. Here we are together a lu'ab. It is the first of the Muslim machines that were used for manual traction that used this type of technology imported from the East. It is a very simple design, it consists of a vertical rod with four legs to be able to anchor it to the ground and then a pivoting beam around an axis. The main feature of this machine is that the upper head rotates 360 degrees, with which the machine could be oriented in different directions. It was very useful especially for defense of fortifications, Since it was located on the top floor of the towers, it could cover a wide front line with its shots, 180 degrees in front of the walls, supporting nearby towers in case of attack or firing on different points. Here we are next to a shabakah, it is a Muslim machine that folds down using torsion technology, it is a folding mantlet. Another of the curiosities of this machine is that all of it is furrowed by a skein of strings both vertically and horizontally that create a mesh similar to that of tennis rackets, in such a way that here the projectiles rebounded when they hit. , with which, having been completed and not destroyed due to the impact, they could be reused and could be returned to the enemy city, which represented a key saving when it came to having stonemasons in the army since they could reuse the stones sent by the enemy. The chassis, which is the one with the skein of ropes that allow the mesh to be created, is then lined, both externally and internally, with wool padding and externally protected, both outside and inside, by rawhide in such a way that not catch its structure. This machine, although gunpowder artillery pieces had not been invented at this time, allows it to be shot down to shoot from behind with small portable tension artillery pieces or even to be able to drop down and be shot by archers or crossbowmen. Here we have a jarkh next to us, it is a very peculiar Muslim crossbow model since , unlike the Christian models that were designed to shoot arrows, this model is designed to throw stones. It is a very peculiar design. And it adds some novelties regarding the designs for shooting arrows. Thus, a very powerful bow, much more powerful than the specimens for shooting arrows, then we have a wide channel to place the stone, a sling that acts as a drag and also a system of pulleys that what it does is minimize the loading process. Thanks to the pulley system, it is possible to load the machine with much less effort. Here we have a frank manjaniq, this is a Muslim hand-drawn machine. Previous to the technology with fixed counterweights, we find the manual traction technology. The operation and the principle were identical, it is the operation of the balance, here what the soldiers did was lower the arm, once the arm was lowered, the projectile was placed in the wave and several soldiers hung from each of the ropes like if they were ringing the bells, they hit a signal or a sharp blow in such a way that when the arm hit the crossbar, when it hit the stop it threw the stone. This machine throws 15-kilo stones and requires a team of 25 people to put it into operation. Here we are next to manjaniq persa, it is the first of the machines that were built with fixed counterweights, it was a direct evolution of the manual traction models and unlike the later models that had a box filled with earth this first design only has one net with stones that are in charge of performing the counterweight function. Nor does it have a winch, but the force to be able to lower the arm and load the machine has to be a driving force of a human nature. The trigger mechanism is a very simple mechanism with a kind of hook. This machine, despite being with a fixed counterweight, would be of a caliber similar to those of the manual traction models of a heavy nature. This discovery of the fixed counterweight is a technological advance. Around five centuries have passed since it was discovered that if you put a fixed counterweight on a manual traction machine, it was not necessary for the soldiers to pull. It is something that is obvious to us, but five centuries have passed. And at the time it was considered as revolutionary an advance as the discovery of gunpowder. Behind us we have a Turkish manianiq, it is another of the manual traction machine models , they are operated by soldiers who lower their arms, load the projectile and shoot by pulling the strings. Unlike other contemporary models, as could be the frank manjaniq, this has a much more open frame in such a way that the axis is arranged at an inclined angle with which it would make a more direct fire on the canvases of the walls, while other machines of the same period what they made was a very parabolic fire. It is a machine that requires at least 15 soldiers to operate it and throws 8-10 kilogram stones, the power of the machine can be increased, both the range and the size of the projectiles with the provision of a greater number of soldiers. The machine that we have next to us, a gaws-al-ziyar, is the largest human torsion machine , it is an enormously powerful machine, it consists of two independent parts, the torsion cube where the two skeins of ropes were housed and the displacement arms and here we have the second of the parts, which is the lathe. It is a system with four pulleys in such a way that it allows the loading process to be greatly cushioned. The power of this machine is enormous. It unites its psychological effect by shooting arrows of a meter and a half at a distance of about 400 meters, with which the range is almost double that of the bows of this same period. And at the same time the physical unites since there are several medieval texts that mention that this machine had the capacity to fire enough to nail four soldiers to the ground. The machine next to us is a wheel of fire. Its production was very simple. They made it based on two wagon wheels joined together with boards in such a way that a cylinder was created, the objective was for it to roll very easily. Incendiary substances were placed inside the machine and it was dropped rolling down the slope, in such a way that it overwhelmed the enemy soldiers. This machine, more than a siege machine, would be a machine used by the defenders to be able to fight the enemy soldiers or the attacking machines. If this attack was combined with a departure of troops from the city, just behind these machines, well, what the defenders did was collide in a closed formation against the enemy who had had to open their formation to let these machines pass. The advances related to the war machine were exported from North Africa to Spain with the Muslim conquest and from there to the rest of Europe, as we can see in the influence on Christian models. Here we have a mobile mantlet. The main characteristic of Christian tablecloths is that they all have openings. In this case, it has a vertical one to shoot with a bow and a horizontal one to be able to shoot with a crossbow. In this way the machine could move closer to and further away from the walls, the mantles not ceasing to be more than a kind of mobile walls that can move closer to and further away from the fixed city walls. From afar it combines the attack with long range bows and as the machine is closer to the walls you can use the attack with crossbows that at close range has enormous precision and power. Here we have a folding tablecloth. This machine was used in combination with the first gunpowder artillery pieces. These pieces had a very long loading and recharging process. It came to cost about three hours between shots. So what they did was, they prepared the piece behind this mantle, once they had it prepared, they opened, they fired and covered again. And so the soldiers were only exposed for the exact time that the trapdoor was open, thereby increasing their protection enormously. Here we have a counterweight blunderbuss, this is the quintessential heavy artillery piece in the Middle Ages. It is a terribly powerful machine, the operation is identical to those of counterweight that we have already seen. The arm is lowered by means of the winch. What is done is to pass the sling under the machine, in such a way that the projectile is loaded in the front part of the machine and when fired it drags the sling with the projectile under the machine, describing an arc and when the arm becomes vertical throws the stone. This machine has enormous power, specifically this specimen throws stones of 50 kilos at about 170 meters, 180 meters away. Of this type of machine in medieval engravings you can see an abundant typology of projectiles, one of the most curious is the use of this machine to pull horses on the enemy city. Horses for what? Well, to spread the plague. We are talking about biological warfare. Here we have a lathe crossbow. This is the machine, par excellence, during the Middle Ages to launch arrows. It has a large arch, a base and then a throne at the back to allow its loading. It is a very versatile machine because it rotates 360 degrees horizontally and can also be oriented in height. With which , if it was available inside the towers, it was the ideal weapon, since with a slight movement it could be oriented to each of the loopholes and easily correct trajectories. This machine shoots arrows of about 80 centimeters at 170, 180 meters. The precision is low, it must be taken into account that these machines are very inaccurate. At that distance it is difficult to hit a target, but it must be taken into account that when several machines are arranged covering a wide area in front, they usually always hit a target. It was thrown a little to the bulge. The arrow has been stuck to a depth of around 20 cm, enough to be able to pass through a person cleanly. This machine represents a very peculiar use of fire. It is an incendiary kite . He carried a ball full of incendiary substances, similar to the one that is currently put on bulls to bolster, and then he carried what is the kite and the winch to set it on fire. So the objective was to set the ball on fire and fly over the enemy city with the kite so that the ball would hit the roofs that, being made of wood and straw, burned easily. Although the kite originally comes from China, the moment in which it was exported from China to the European world is unknown, although the Chinese knew of its use, they did not use it for military purposes. The only evidence we have of its use appears in the Walter de Milemete manuscript which is kept in Christ Church in London and represents a very peculiar use of fire, one of the most peculiar in combining a toy with flames. Here we have a forklift. This machine is also based on the principle of the balance, what was done was, a soldier was put into the vat, others pulled from the ropes that were on the other side and climbed to the top of the wall. It is the first elevator, it is a very simple mechanism. Above all, we thought that this machine would be used for surprise attacks in the middle of the night, because really the soldiers were all very exposed to enemy fire. With which this would be very useful, for example, in night attacks or in surprise attacks taking advantage of the fog or some factor such as rain. This machine dates from the 14th century. It is a very peculiar machine, it is another lifting figure, to raise people you could use the front part that had a series of ropes that go up and down and at the same time it can also be used to throw small objects, especially since alpacas incendiary If it was placed in the upper part that had a kind of fork where they could be placed and when raising and lowering the arm, because it balances just like the counterweight machines like a seesaw, it could be used for these multiple purposes. In other cases, in another of the manuscripts that we have, the machine is used to hang a person, the defenders have taken an enemy captain prisoner, they have decapitated him, they have stripped him naked and they are showing him to outsiders to undermine their morale. Psychological warfare. Here we have a model of a heavy ram, it is a 15th century model of a ram, unlike the previous models, this is already a real tank. It is armored on all its faces, the axles are arranged inside the chassis, because the axles are always a vulnerable element. It has a hipped roof, towards the sides and also forward, thus increasing the resistance capacity against any projectile impact. And the operation of this machine is very simple. From this size there were even others that needed 1,000, 1,500, 2,000 soldiers to be able to put them into operation during the Middle Ages. So this would be the smallest standard model, but there could be much larger machines. They were made to the scale of the walls and the gates that were going to be attacked. Here we have an incendiary machine, it is a low-medieval machine. Its design is very peculiar, it has two mantles under which the soldiers protected themselves, then it has a structure with a stick that could be folded up or down from which a hanging incendiary device hung, so this machine was designed to bring it closer to the walls or the gates, and try to leave the fire, bring it close enough to burn the walled enclosures made of wood. The openings on its rear were designed so that archer units could fire cover towards the flanks of the machine. We only have a manuscript of this type of machine from the 15th century and we do not even know if it was used in combat. This machine that we have here is a brigola with two boxes based on counterweight technology, a totally new technology in the Middle Ages, because it was not used in the Roman world . Here what was done was, by means of the lathe system, the arm was lowered, once the arm was lowered the counterweights went up to the upper part, after raising the counterweights the projectile was loaded and the trigger mechanism was released in such a way that when lowering the counterweights the kinetic energy when lowering the counterweights dragged the arm and when it became vertical it threw the stone. This machine is a fairly powerful machine, it throws 25-kilo stones at a distance of around 180 meters. Each of the counterweights that we can see weighs 800 kilos. It's amazing technology because it allows you to launch pretty much anything. Because all you have to do is increase the weight at one end and more weight at this end a heavier projectile at the other. The discovery of this technology occurred in the Holy Land in the 12th century, because different military traditions converged there. The Byzantine tradition, which was heir to Rome, the Muslim tradition, heir to the Persian world, and then the tradition brought by the European crusaders, which generated the breeding ground for considerable technological advances to take place. The biggest advance that occurred was the discovery of technology with fixed counterweights. For this theme park to have seen the light, the most important thing has been the previous work carried out by Ruben Saez with great dedication. We are in the heart of Trebuchet Park. This is the workshop-warehouse where we work and where we have all the material that makes up our traveling exhibitions and which we later use to exhibit throughout Spain. The fruit that can be seen from the park are the machines, but the truth is that the real work has been the research work to give rise to all these machines. As a result of more than ten years of research in this field, we have published 14 books, some of which are these. A literary work that Ruben continues as an essential step for the subsequent detailed and precise elaboration of the machines that arise from his investigative work. I am Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you have just seen. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating the notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will upload weekly.