I'm a practicing Even though people think You'll be amazed is the underlying You name a problem, mental Effectively, you are the god That's why they call I always tell my patients is that you are tearing a Damn... What is happening is the is not COVID. 10 years from now, it's going to People are going It's called super bug. There's a whole Wow. So if you basically instead of come out you're technically healthier Pretty much. People think that When I grew up, if my father I'll be outcasted In US, if you say I they come to you and then say, is everything okay Liver is also an organ saving you for Wow, I love this conversation. As I'm heading into my 30s, I'm noticing that all my friends of my age are more This year, I've been really enjoying we've been having on TRS. It's been great to hear from own areas of expertise. Today's guest, Dr. Pal Manickam has spoken in detail about Now, you might think that your digestive It's just one function. But in truth, it's related to everything And in many ways, it's related We have addressed how mental health is also in this particular podcast. But you'll be shocked at where You'll be surprised to know how important your digestive So I suggest you if you're concerned if you're a biology or if you simply enjoy This is Dr. Pal Manickam [] Dr. Pal Manickam, How are you? Good. Thank you for having me Ranveer. Okay, where do we begin You know, that medical conversations Oh, good. That's good. That's good for me. Why do you think people have Maybe after COVID? Yeah. People care much I think so. I've noticed a trend among they prioritize self-care, which is great because it My uncle is very but he's grown the And every time I meet him, He'll say that, listen, you need And it reached a point where he was very worried and I told him that I He's like, no, how do you know? I don't think you know. I explained to him that I think his friends and peers may not However, as we reach our Everyone talks about health. Everyone talks about Right. Do you see this as generation gap in terms of how No, absolutely. If you look at it, the average age for any problem is only at 45. You will not believe in People don't take care of Really? And it's only during their that they find out about their high cholesterol When I explain to patients that and it's time to start it's a common occurrence. So elevated cholesterol levels is Yeah, or elevated And it is extremely Extremely common. And I'm a the bread and butter of my Colonoscopy to Any precancerous colon polyps, these are like small growth I do an endoscopy from your anal orifice to go inside and then see whether And if it is, we remove it and This is my bread and butter. I do like 20 of these Okay. I've been doing this I'm actually not too familiar gastroenterologist does. Let's begin with that. I think it's actually a very key aspect of modern day health. They say that the gut health is actually related to your And if you're saying that elevated glucose related Correct. I want to know more. For people my age, for what's up, tell me everything So the reason I said the average age I Okay. In US, everybody I will give them the Even healthy people? Healthy people. Really? Because it's And it is a mandatory thing for us to And we do this every five to So there is such a shortage of because there are 350 And the reason we do that colon cancer because You know what Shoving a camera up my butt. And I love it. [Laughter] But as a, as a knowing that I'll have to do scares me, man, I don't The point I was trying to I told you that people are having At age 50, you are not supposed to colon polyps in Okay. But because of this which they have not I'm seeing a lot of pre-cancerous And this is a very 25 years, they came to US, 20 years of hard work, stress, a Their kids are like, and it's time for their So when they do it ideally, you follow a mostly We don't eat much beef or pork So the likelihood of pre-cancerous I think India is actually You're familiar with ''Ram Ram Bhai Sareya Ne'' You know, that culture the interiors of India and people are That's why these conversations But there's still a lot the scientific education At this point in my life, I have aging, and other So let's let's go back to that. You spoke about elevated glucose It's happening mainly because Absolutely. Yeah. Even in India? Even in India. We eat too many, too Correct. That's effectively what it is. Too many carbohydrates. And if you if you look at it, and we So we that's what I do. I was involved in mice research. I'm a practicing gastroenterologist, even though people think So what we do is we and work with We conduct research You will be amazed, by the amount of findings That the gut bacteria is the What do you mean everything? Name a problem? Mental health, gut bacteria, cancer, gut bacteria, obesity, Let's go into the ABCs. What is gut bacteria? So when we say gut, people think So it is not stomach. It's mainly the small It's amazing to think including you and me, has That's more than the entire Okay. And even 100 trillion is And the unique aspect is this 1 followed by 14 zeros bacteria It is like a fingerprint and nobody can Okay. And this is something that right from when you were born. 100 trillion, you said? 100 trillion. Okay. Okay. Imagine that it is all the way to like a hundred trillion It's being arranged like so close. Okay. So effectively, you are the You are the God. You are the God. And that's why they call So there's a whole It's completely different. It's like a Marvel Why is it called second brain? Because all these bacteria whether you are getting What is happening? You know, whenever you know, you serve me When I eat cashews, the good and bad bacteria have to interact to determine It's a continuous What do you mean interact? So the the good bacteria and constantly monitor Alright, and those chemical mediators These molecules then enter the brain, and OK, I'm trying to So please correct me if So when you say &quot;good bacteria,&quot; you're talking about things that are maybe even improve digestion. Correct. By bad bacteria, do you No, everything is germ. So the concept is that these bacterias, even blamed bacteria as We know infection, we give But that's not true. Throughout from ancestors life, we have had a symbiotic What we mean by They need us. They live inside us and we need Correct. Which we are not given for not digesting certain food OK, so for example, I'll So let's say that you are OK, simple sugar. So let's say, you know, you eat it. It goes into your stomach, So there is no organisms in the Then it goes into So the small intestine So it absorbs everything. Oh, good. I love simple glucose. Oh, I love biscuit. And then when the biscuit there is nothing for Bacteria doesn't So what happens is that the bacteria start attacking the Ohh.. because they need So when you are creating that is where the That is right at We are looking at the device that we But the bottom line problem And that is why they because all these nerve supplies Got it. And then it makes Let's say you want to eat this. Maybe it's not you. It's your bad Let's talk about the So, your brain, spinal are all made up of the Correct. Are you saying that your gut Yes. Gut has something This is called central And the gut has And those neurons are sometimes Why? Because they constantly interact. It's a two way communication. The information goes sends a communication over so this food is good for us. Let's make it hold for longer. Let's absorb all And this food is bad for us. OK, let's just excrete You will not believe how much in that small connection. Basically, when Virat Kohli is he's played that cover drive so Which is why when it actually it happens like a machine. It happens automatically. But how often does Virat versus how often does That nervous pathway, which allows him is very well worked because I see. I see. But the nervous pathway for food and a The food and eating is one of the That's probably why the body has between the gut and the brain. Yes, because it's such an Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. Please correct me when I'm No, no, you're right. It's like, you know, in Bhagavad and our brain is Arjuna. Really that? It's that big. Because our gut And if we replace the Lord then Lord Krishna some adharma is You need to fight It's how deep that is. It has to be a smooth, And the most important thing is, it's not something that happens in the It happens right when you are Vaginal delivery. Do you think that a neurosurgeon would Neuroscientists always brain is the biggest thing. Because, you know, Our gut might not be able to do But the gut has a stronger the brain in terms of For example, so let's say that you're I was addicted to dairy milk. The reason that I was addicted to dairy my bacteria in my intestines is growing Right. So in due course of time, Then that bad bacteria and it secretes dopamine right And that dopamine gets into the blood, goes into the brain, And I feel that craving satisfaction. Then what I do, I So this is a vicious cycle. And I keep mentioning that to my body on a It didn't happen overnight or it OK, so much to explore here. But let's go back to good So your good bacteria is there Since when you're born. So I'll tell you, I'll take So you take two deliveries. OK, one baby is born The other baby is born And we did research to find out which baby has a good bacteria. Right. When babies are born, there is a lot of space for their small intestines and their large intestines There is so much There is no microbes, nothing. When the baby is born it swallows the that goes into the stomach that creates that triggering cascade gets the first place. Damm.. The same thing if you when you take that baby stool they have only the skin when we are taking it out. And part of the microbes is like the people who You mean the gynecologists? The gynecologists, and the environmental bacteria So I'm not saying So please don't take that But what I'm trying to say is it OK. And then there are multiple if you look at kids who and you follow them over time, the likelihood of obesity is slightly increased in patients And this is a very controversial finding some studies have supported it. But bottom line their gut bacteria is definitely For life. Unless they change by implementing good during the process, during their growth, which is dietary. Dietary, you know, exposure to, OK. I mean, that's We'll talk about it as well. We will come to that because Correct. Actually, we can OK. I want to say something Everyone has this idea in But the truth is, there that your body and mind For some people, it's dance. For some people, For some people, For some people, For some people, it's sports. For so many people, it's sports. But you just need to take that In that first month, push yourself for one month. It'll help you through Correct. Because hear these conversations, movement exercises, You have to prioritize it. Literally, the worst mistake pre age 16, didn't focus enough Prioritize money Maintain my health for But only now when I've switched is everything getting My mental health I'm so much happier. I sleep so much better. I look so much better, Great. But you need to motivate start weight training, engage in sports and ideally incorporate weight training, The combination of these in different can really help you, but at least do one Now let's get back to good Piggybacking on the point is that If you exercise, you increase the and decreasing the I think when it comes to health, That exercise, eat Keep it simple. Yeah. People overcomplicate People have too many you'll often see that the complicate diets a lot. I've seen this so much, especially They have either not lived in Or, you know, I have just discovered health. Then they'll say no, Don't eat this in But the truth is just eat clean, We'll come to that later. Yes. Let's get back to What is bad bacteria? Is it like the bacteria that you get by No, not really. That is a really bad bacteria. Okay, so let's Let's take Marvel Sure. So we have like, you know, all these are like good guys. And we have the Thanos. Okay. And Thanos also have these like Our body will recognize Thanos, and then we'll make sure Okay, so that is taken care of by the So let's say you are and it is contaminated. It goes inside and Okay, so let's just stimulate and then it creates a cascade Thanos and Thanos is done. That's when you have 2-3 days fever, And after three to four Because all this immune system doesn't happen with your brain. It happens at the lining of your It's called pious patches. Are you talking about just Dietary germs is the main thing ingestion of that bad bacteria. The same concept happens when or any other The same thing happens within This is for an oral thing Okay, got it. And that is the baddest But what happens is Okay, so let's say that we don't Okay, remember I told you that Okay, so let's say a baby is has a very good gut bacteria. How do we preserve the is by just giving If you consume a lot of fiber, which includes the good bacteria in your while the harmful Then this good group will take They will fight against Okay, but what is happening when the last like this thing has gone down with all this high calorie, high fat, and this thing goes down This gut bacteria is malleable, which we can change it, but If we feed bad things, If we feed good things, So this is a constant seesaw so that we can lead Okay, but you spoke about how good You said the absolute which will give you infections. Infection, like Salmonella typhoid is an But you're saying inherently in your gut, Inherently, correct. You get a mix of both That bad bacteria is there because And also exposure But if your good it has the capability to It's not 50-50? It's not 50-50. No. So in a very healthy person, someone Say someone who's living rural India, eating very What is the proportion? We conducted research on current modern-day living. We studied a tribal called the Hadza tribe. We conducted extensive research and found that they have as they do not grow animal They hunt. That's where their And they are successful in the And in between what you know, complex I mean, fruits and tubers, where the complex and coming back to the that it reaches and they are feeding keep going, keep going. So whenever you eat you feed yourself first, then you need to So when you look When we did the research on And this thing is passed we have lost 400 good bacteria, And my real scare is, this thing is passed And if it's similar you know, where we and it affects the 25% of trees are gone, we're cutting down trees, and 50% are gone, there's no way to But with gut bacteria, if and then replant the trees, it will be such a wonderful thing that There's actually my favorite best ever food review show, where he goes to and also shows the So he had done a pretty graphic It's not an easy watch, It's, it's something intense. But what you said that they get In those 20 days, collecting things and eating, which brings me to According to science, archaeologists claim that between that was the first time Homo Okay. And I've talked to some we say it's two to based on the bone fossils It possibily could Okay. But my point is that that only in about did we really start settling I love history. Now, two lakh minus 10,000 okay, to be safe, is 1,80,000 years. That means for 1,80,000 years, all of us were living All of us were hunter gatherers. Correct. And our bodies are used to that. When nature has fed us, helped our good bacteria. And nowadays, we often find a burger at McDonald's or sitting in Pizza Hut I was about to say obesity, heart disease in Hatsa. How come? And they eat honey. People say that, you because honey is like But they have developed that helps prevent and greatly reduces One of the most beautiful and Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari. He actually draws out a picture of And one of the key features How you go to buffet and When you go out into the forest, fruits on trees, edible leaves, You will see something You'll see raw nuts growing, And you're exploring so much that you're actually taking That's what our Absolutely. And while exploring also working Absolutely, absolutely. That's actually what But again, that's not realistic, because even the viewers likely sitting in their And this is our life now, So all we can do is You know, absolutely. And the present also, which is why I want to Do you have any thoughts Speaking of the Hazda tribe, another interesting they would finish their meal by sunset because The Hazda tribe finishes eats a heavy meal together, and then naturally that they sleep well All the growth hormone, you know, every cell in our Similar to how you go to bed at every cell has a Active digestive hormones and the trigger is the sunlight. Your sunlight comes in the and then all the digestive and then at For instance, when it enters your stomach and needs to be How does this happen? The cells open up, acid is poured, the food is So, who's gonna You need a growth hormone for for at least 7-8 hours at night. So, when melatonin is secreted it helps repair all stomach damageand Basically, boils down Eat clean, exercise, sleep well. Returning to your point it may be difficult to incorporate but making an effort to If you can put a While the sun is out? Yes, eat while the sun is out and when the sun sets and that's And I have a wonderful research I was part of a research pizza and burgers for example, to a small group of mice, from sunrise to sunset, And then we gave the from 7pm to 7am to a Three months later, we examined the and were surprised to find that But the most important these mice were fed their cholesterol and insulin resistance all And when you follow that's where the So, if someone the harm has already By simply adjusting the weight can be lost. And that was an and then I started using that And you know, fatty liver whenever there is a belly fat. And I told them, you can eat I understand you're and can't follow all my advice, but try to have your dinner This is a wonderful technique. I think I lost weight, so And then I started then I lost weight, then I started imparting that And I see this big change in the pictures that And I said, I think that this is one of but I think this is one of a which can be easily applied if you just put this thought Yeah, you know, the reason I get bored of giving people diet advice through my old fitness Beerbiceps was started as I got bored because I'm just going to be So there's a lot of people who listening to this podcast But the truth is, they've already They've just not followed it. Okay, which is why now I Thank you. Tell me. How can I help you? That's an interesting Okay, love life. So there's a girl I like. And I'm actually a Honestly, I get my blood But she said that, She's a spiritual girl. So I've hit the mark there. That should be a Yeah. So she's a spiritual girl. And she told me that You're spiritual. But you need to fix And if you do that, then Okay. I'm not even That's what's sad. Is she your subscriber? No comment. So now, she's someone who sleeps And that's always been my dream. I think in terms of health I've already made progress but there's still room for During COVID, there where I used to sleep at Surprisingly, I was quite I don't know why. All my life I've been someone stays up at night and I either study Moved to this house in Versova. And my studio is in my house. Okay, so it's very convenient for It's convenient for the guests, Correct. So I was forced to So from 6am, I came down to 1am. And now I wake up at say, And then I wake up and I do these If I could adjust my schedule for the sake of my career, I am confident that with a I can easily switch And that's what long term that it might seem difficult. But as Dr. Andrew Huberman says, and he's become the legend like his podcast has blown up. Everyone I know who's into He says that the single in bringing change in your life is your own focus of your mind. If you put focus on the problem, put hard work, you'll be able to switch up and you'll you'll be able to change all your But it has to come Inside you need to feel that This girl is beautiful. [laughter] So your going to change it. I will change it. It's too early right now. But I think I found It depends on if So make sure that you have So that your offsprings Yeah, she's really healthy. I'm really healthy. So, another thing I when I was growing up, people Do you believe in that too? As for me, it Okay, so for us, when I grew Okay, so be to a point that Okay, please, Uma, I like this girl, So as a in addition to astrology, you need to look at So if I have to open a website, I will say guts.com. And then I will marry me if you have guts. But there's science Absolutely. One obvious logic is that the an impact on the baby's Very obvious, through How does the dad's? The environmental So let's say like I Okay, so our hand has more Okay, so it's exposure. So when you're when you're touching dogs, and dogs are transferring So it's all about Dogs also have good bacteria. Yeah, good and bad bacteria. So there is a study who grew up with And the risk of allergic disease And again, it comes back playing with dirt and And the kids are playing and the So that kid is getting exposed that you will ever Going back to what nowadays with our modern world, kids don't play outside in And we are playing dirt, not actual dirt, on the kids on the iPad. So when you play in dirt, again, the and it is always better There's a kid who Sometimes on weekends, if my I'll just take my own And I'll tell him to And I'll play a Okay, he's an athletic kid. I read online that can improve ball control, since it helps your nervous system I told him to take off your on the grass And you get major when you play he said, I don't want to bro. It's dirty. The mud is dirty. Oh my god. And I was looking I've heard that before. I see. I used to have a lot of relatives who used But I've had many guests backgrounds who have talked about And you're a doctor who's Let's talk a little What's the deal? So there's something As a gastroenterologist, I see a lot of autoimmune such as inflammatory bowel and Crohn's disease. your body thinks that your Your colon is foreign, it So all this immune and then starts This was not And now 25% of my And the reason for this is that when we go back, some people say but one of the reasons We tend to be overly and our Indian culture, where nothing should happen But by protecting them overly and not exposing them to dirt, not letting them play The population of bacteria that they And this bacteria interacts Our immune system is It's like me. It keeps hyper, it's has to do something, It keeps taking the bacteria out Oh, no, good? Okay, keep it. Bad, no. You need to keep on giving some If it is bored, it starts Okay? So when you are playing in dirt, it says, oh, good, We'll discard. But when you are an the immune system What will it do? Then it starts Devil's workshop. So it started working It starts eating up your own, I strongly believe that of the rising occurrence of rheumatoid arthritis What is colitis? Inflammation of the colon. And that's the thing, people often associate with the immune system thinks Because there's nothing to do. Or your immune system, your Right? Your immune system is bored because You know what I'm saying? Some people even say that the sweat of the That sweat is basically protecting Correct. Is that what you're saying? It could be. Like in a way. In a way. But that doesn't mean that, you like very, let's say You drop the chocolate It's okay. Three seconds later, you eat it That microbes is not It could be like smaller bad guys, But at the same time, you're You are providing a It's all good. The same chocolate, if it I will not even go near it. Right? Because then the it could be We don't even know. So it is a fine, And especially for best thing ever. Okay. I'll tell you what, again, I'm going back to my life. I'm trying to make this I'm from a family of doctors. My mom literally never let me and my sister eat In college, I had my first and I used to get But now I don't get sick My hypothesis is that my gut strengthened up in college when I I've noticed that my mom Like she even eats restaurant It's harsh on her body you know. She's not able to like take it. Of course there's an But I think that where we grow up, our compared to someone who's not used The moment they eat chutney something happens Correct. Correct. So you want to say You're trying to find an argument [laughter] Yeah. See, mama. Auntie, he's asking [Laughter] But you know, maybe in 18 to 22, that's where you had your Yeah. Right. You know, you exercise more. You started doing Maybe protein was And maybe your gut And that is something that you Okay. But what about this and we'll get to a whole Street foods. Yeah. Or just generally living you are exposed Absolutely. On some level it's harming It's good. It's good? It's absolutely good. Because the exposure to the How do you get in US? There is, you know, the I mean, that is It's not even close to Okay. And yes, it is bad, right? You know, let's say severe But all these small, small And the biggest thing is, please, please, let me if you are having a fever, please don't take Okay. Only if it is Nowadays, even when there is What does antibiotics You remember the 100 Yeah. Right from the oral 50% is gone. It blasts your digestive system. It blasts the bacteria, Okay. Okay. And it takes a lot of How long? Maybe, it depends Sometimes if you have a six weeks, eight weeks. Sometimes if you're bad to start with, It's that bad. Usually when someone's they also give a How much does a probiotic help? Probiotic, that's a very difficult That doesn't help that much. That's the story. Yes, it does help a little Remember 100 Probiotic is not going Okay. The better way is to, if it is a viral I did a reel on my channel in Chennai, and I said, I need Augmentin. And Augmentin is a This is not Amoxicillin. Amoxicillin is the that you give for any pneumonia Augmentin is for an antibiotic where Amoxicillin It's an even So Amoxicillin Augmentin might In US, you cannot even get You cannot walk into a Here, I showed to the audience easily without a prescription. Okay. What is happening is the biggest 10 years from now, it's going to Yeah. You're saying there's going to be A bacteria that is It's called Superbug. It's become resistant human bodies just don't So what happens is the bacteria is smart. Oh, so you are... It's like, you know, Ramayana, Oh, this is a bow and I know, I have a shield now. So Amoxicillin, I So the bacteria forms a shield. So your bow and So then what do you do? You go up and then you bring a Then now there's another And there is this patient, 35-year-old pneumonia patient. Pneumonia. He died. He had likely received a causing his body to And this bacteria called We tried so many And it is not that he did it. It might be other people. So you taking an People may say, it's my body, I can do whatever you want. No, that's not true. You are damaging the community because that antibiotic resistance is What? So the bacteria which is resistant can get transmitted Wow, that's crazy! So if one family member is it can impact the gut bacteria in And then they can transmit then treating them is So it's just a A ticking time bomb. And there is this that only if a doctor gives Why? Because the fever No, but why is this notion At least when I grew Even it is now because there is this tendency that, okay, I need some medications That's not true. Your body is so smart. It'll be able to I always say that if you take antibiotics, it Okay. If you don't take antibiotics, it'll go away in 72 hours. How do you raise a healthy Other than the okay, I'll pitch you some ideas. You tell me where I'm Lots of water. Keep the kid hydrated. That's the base. I personally would love to feed from a young age. Again, I don't know too Like I don't know why I'm sure there's You know, baby food, all that. But the moment the kid I'm going to shower that kid I'm going to make sure my kids get That means I'll take away their and spend time But ensure they These are my basics. Ideally, I would not like to But I have the luxury my career is such that I That's not a luxury These are my Lots of raw food and water, lots of sleep, lots of exercise and trying to raise a kid and less air pollution, The fifth point is all this four What? The fifth point, all needs to be done by the parent. Because your No, that's the first thing. That's where kids That is the key. As we discussed earlier, Indian parents are very emotional they pour love to They prioritize their They'll do anything for the To live better. But what they are failing they need to take And no matter what if parents follow the four they don't have to they will do it themselves. That is what is missing. That is what is missing. I saw, I mean, while in the hotel buffet, Husband, wife, two little kids. All four of them Okay. And then I was looking at A man was having breakfast, They had Froot Loops, croissants, and muffins. I just peeked at it. There was no fruits, Okay. Then I looked Exact same thing. Exact same thing. Muffin, croissant, cereals, and That's the only difference. That's the only difference. Basically, kids follow Can I add a sixth point here? Because this is while I'm on vacation as well. As far as possible, I try not eating anything that's And I've seen it's made a But I'm dead sure it's And this has been the If it's chips, if it's two like, you know, cold drinks, It doesn't need to be at home. Marketing tells you that it needs to be at But you know what, you can A little extra effort. But when these things are your dietary choices. If it's just there. I'm a pretty clean eater, But if it's a packet of chips at I feel like eating it. It's just how the mine is wired. The concrete jungle You just need to not keep Not fall for marketing traps. It will be a big difference. And you know, people say that no, That's okay. Listen to your hunger. But don't keep the Absolutely. Oh, I always tell when you tear a you're tearing a And it sounds very The thousand hundred has to be so close to And each and every you're creating gaps. And through the gaps, Let's take table I also want to talk about And you know what, I'll because I think people One serving of it, it's It's not a snack Vegetables, I So please correct But let's start at these You know, I eat oriented items, oriented items? in terms of anything that as far as possible, I avoid it. It's just how... good so you stay as far as possible. That doesn't mean I Okay. Like, you know, Some, I do eat fruit once a day. And I, I like getting And I eat it as my first meal. Am I doing something wrong, I want to talk about the concept of issue people face when or get fit due to their So let's just address sugar, talk about it from the gut So let's go back to the, like, I'll take you through what Sure, so when you eat something, oesophagus, stomatch and we talked and then into the small intestine Okay. What happens is, Your small intestine So when you eat ladoo it's all like sweet and sugar. and then it gets and then it moves Then goes into the colon, there is no food In the colon. Why? because all the simple glucose has Then it starts eating because that debris the awakened Then the bacteria gets released, when it does not find anything even if something has entered you need to feed the if not, it's hungry like what we are when we doesn't matter the food is available okay so that is the starting so then why i keep saying This is a very important point widens on the When the connection gets widened there is a delay in the So, when the signal is Then the harmful bacteria take It secerets chemicals It secrets dopamine which can be It secrets dopamine because after the uh it's good it's good and then creates dopamine and then that dopamine it goes into your brain so you the bad bacteria you know when we were an angel and a It's similar to good where the bad bacteria urges you to eat sugary, &quot;you only live once&quot;. Sorry for the language. You're such a sweet person sir but if I'm imitating a so pardon my language but coming back to ladoo [laughter] this is your inner family man talking about my love life oh it's good it's good we'll talk about I'm sure there is some connection we should talk after [laughter] let's come back to sugar sir sugar so anyway so for sugar simple sugar and complex sugar so simple sugar is the but when you eat complex sugar what happens is this sugar what are food items that have? for example let's say okay brown rice, brown rice, whole wheat okay Nachni, Ragi. so it has a complex carbs and this complex carbs is so it goes into small intestine that small intestinal bacteria because it has the genes to create an enzyme to degrade that shield And we don't have that is why we rely So, when we conse brown rice, or whole wheat, a portion of it is and then it moves What occurs in in the large intestine uh why it is going we do not have the to degrade that shield into you understood that Every complex Okay, let me give if you eat a whole grain so we don't have the so it goes inside the colon, and the good bactera Okay, so the main idea here is that we in our large intestine. This can be achieved by maintaining In other words, we need to provide And you need them it is not and only then you'll be so when they digest it they eat their food and they also queue okay so effectively if you begin eating healthy it might be difficult for your adopt a healthy lifestyle but as very easier both in terms of cravings. because even your cravings correct cravings I can guarantee you that if you start eating healthy your cravings will decrease on average within six months. Cravings will be gone. But the initial will power people think that they think that oh you people always come I'm not able to lose weight because i crave you cannot rely on willpower Instead, you need try consing complex Or have nuts, so that you and you are getting and you're creating where the cravings will be less so next time okay effectively this is the about the process of fitness in general The initial phase but if you can push the second week will be easier. The first month will be and the first year is where But it will be life changing, if you can get the rest of your life is easier correct take one difficult year or take 10 difficult it's one of the two correct which is why when It's easier. Yeah, when it's easier. When your neural patterns Switch it up. Anything you want to Especially when You know Conor McGregor, He famously said that everytime He used to eat cinnamon so my go-to is always nuts. I also remember that our gut bacteria so whenever I eat nuts, Again whenever I eat I always have the same thing what i am feeding so when during the cravings if i actually help my gut that's the best case scenario in my gallbladder phase where i had the gallstone I wanted dessert after every meal I got so scared after that I got scared and I saw that over the course When people say especially if they're young, In my eyes and heart. I used to tell them But now I just say that okay, although I still think it. this is artificially created this this is a story you're telling yourself because i'll tell you what correct I think it's true for a lot of other people what eventually happens is you you don't really need dessert and after a point after you've lost that when you actually try the sugars taste that sweet taste is so sharp that all desserts taste the same and you kind of don't want variety of taste in desert, like sugars taste became and i've seen how my palate has things I used to like didn't like after a point but it took some time yeah so there is something correct that's changing my correct so when people say they have not chase fitness correct yeah and initially it's the not to eat sweet it's not that you cannot eat so people exercise no I'm not going to eat but that willpower will okay and then slowly you say you know what let's just eat right away so willpower is like the it dies down so you need to keep use your willpower only that you really matters how do you like so by making some for example okay I know that I'm not going to eat but you mimic that like? like you know in my or let's say that somebody I'm not going to I'm going to eat half of it and then one fourth So you don't have to your will power So I said that And what I did was I So I'll eat whatever I want as healthy possible choose low calorie thing and in 30 days I and I was at cloud nine when my 200 pounds 220 pounds came down then that was my right so now i know okay this is So then I started really thinking that's exactly what you of the label and then If there is sugar, Preferably not. The order of ingredients matters, so if sugar is listed as the But if it's the first because it means there's a higher In that possible can. Based on my research, it's clear that artificial can alter the bacterial However, we don't yet know and it may not have an immediate the thing happens 10 years down the road and that's why we need to so that it will reap you need to do the that's effectively what it is. The more boring your life is It's like investment, it's supposed to be boring. Yeah, lot's of health content but the truth is the the better you will look. One of the most common questions I get My opinion is that green if you go to the mountains, climb In terms of weight many people believe that While it is true, it should be combined I can't remember the name of it's catechins. Yeah, I remember making a video for people interested My research showed that for catechins Good luck with all that diuretic all these things are fats correct do you want to talk about complex like again I'll give I avoid maida as far as possible like flour anything uh that's my second always it's been that way for I don't mind whole wheat though they say that in the modern that's the narrative I've heard that's not true I'll take that back yeah that's only true where there is a disproportionate people are going crazy you need to dial gluten-free has become People think that avoiding gluten but the real reason to go gluten-free If you have celiac but the incidence The main reason why people because most of them have So IBS happens irritable bowel syndrome which okay and which essentially means bad bacteria is so high that's why it is very sensitive it's years of abuse years of abuse So, what happens with IBS is, you become very like wheat, barley, and rye, which also contain fructans. F-R-U-C-T-A-N-S Fructans can be extremely So, when I see I advise them to avoid fructans. They often respond with I tell them to go gluten-free. Many people who improve on a gluten-free Because all the factors in their modern life and they go gluten-free this is not celiac disease at all only in a minority may uh where I was coming from about whole wheat not being was something I think Abhi and Niu are very well researched According to Abhi and Niu, the top soil layer in Punjab, where most of the lacks the bacteria As a result, the benefits we associate with So I think the more broken it's still a complex carbohydrate but it doesn't have as as it used to have 100 years ago could be. So in my practice in a Sacramento where I practice there are lots of lots of Punjabi everybody has gluten allergy or celiac disease for some That doesn't make sense to me. What is the logic? So I have noticed that Few people may have IBS. But their might be a possibility There may also be an Especially in punjabi I'm not making but for generations so I think there is you remember the inflammatory I think that has to do right so it has to be the might be super stimulated and then starting to generate and damaging the small so there's slight can I throw googly at you We had a genetic who explained that in many communities in India, that's a problem and it's Inbreeding means? When marrying someone, it's important to check Nowadays, genetic compatibility This is because you never know if you and your partner shared an So if that ancestors have been which is actually a long time ago you don't know if your great-great-great-grandfather and her great-great-great-grandmother were actually siblings you don't know that's just how so you're talking about like marrying between family yeah but over 8 generations. I see so he said that much more rampant problem because you would assume you're meeting someone uh whoever she is you don't know but you don't know where so it's healthier to marry other country yeah other countries can I share my so you see this my finger yeah this finger is short okay show it to the camera so this my father has it my grandfather has it and my grandfather so it's in generation when this is great I mean people and that's why I my I execel in studies because of genetics, I don't think it's true but, but what happened that I married and my wife was in but we were not like first degree relative but was the same community we and we had so much okay so we had and I was like how every time we got miscarriage DNC and then I mean I'm just speaking so in first pregnancy got really okay and we go for 20 we go for this anomaly scan and if you look at the baby and we have to you cannot do D &amp;C What is that? Dilation curettage, is when the baby and then abortion is done. But if it is big, so when it is big you cannot do that, For us an actual baby was and I because yeah I thought..... We appreciate you opening up, I can't imagine the pain. so anyway, so we said it's very important so this baby we I was like you know so then we figured out that I share a gene with my wife same gene and that I have this So, I found out that the gene However, the same gene my wife doesn't And our baby(girl), had this gene from And both together boom... It was something called there is no legs no arms the so then I realized that there is something so I analyzed I mean dealing with that at that time I mean now we are very But back then, that was my way of coping with and trying to understand What did I do wrong. I analyzed my parents, their Everybody is carrying and the main reason was my dad married his sister's daughter it's called okay and it happens a lot when i grew up and also in pakistan it were extremely common and all these genetic And I completely agree you know, it's very difficult to go and in terms of how they are but at least to start with, marrying within the family I Yeah appreciate you opening up a lot. I know it's very difficult and it to talk about this Yeah I know. After I opend up many in my channel that you know many people and there is where I am now a volunteer and I take all these cases and then sense the and if we can create a genome and then we can find out hey you know this and all this CRISPR technology what I experience should not happen can I give you a very brotherly take like it's slightly philosophical you know whenever I went whatever I had gone to and yeah their own you know little darker chapters uh I used to rationalize my suffering has someone else who will may not have to you know so I think you're that's all one can one Absolutely. to educate others, Yeah you can educate, especially on an where someone may Excately The key, which I believe is, and this has been one of my favorite He's the the genetic He mentioned three communities, he named Tamram. Are you of Tamram? No okay He named tamram, he said Tamram refers to Tamil Brmins. So Tamram was named, He named Agarwal's in North India He also noted inter-community marriage And that's just how My dad is Punjabi and my mother which makes me However, I am looking for a wife To just mix up the gene pool or someone from you just said hazda huh you said hazda tribe that's right to get the good bacteria anyway coming back to diet uh wow I love this conversation uh so we spoke about whole wheat again the key with complex try avoiding maida I also don't eat I eat white rice but I ensure I eat it on a it's helped me again do you want to move one suggestion that i i love white rice in my weight loss journey was my willpower went to eat brown rice and but my willpower was good in managing all my other profiles while i was eating small amount of white so rice has been like blamed uh limited quantities in moderation to enjoy the journey yeah I think my big problem with rice and I'm also a rice lover but uh the problem i see order a portion of rice after this i've seen a lot especially They order biryani after already eating Personally, I think and people also don't Like that small amount okay but people go crazy correct that's the major problem i don't think it'll change either like i mean we are whatever but what can change is my trick to my patient take the half first and then replace the other half and always when you go I always say that okay we know that restaurant and we know that but we still go when i go to a restaurant i will eat biryani it's i always get a to-go box first i open it when the biryani put it in the box and then i use it later especially late at night so i did a reel on it i got a really bad thing from like how can you do this to well biryani will be your emotion when you're on a hospital bed anyway uh now in this section Sweet pavam tamil boy in you, Now you have to speak let's talk about alcohol. I've stoppend drinking about 5 years How does alcohol affectgut health? Thats the best thing that that's the best thing happened alcohol alcohol is very bad for gut in my practice uh where a patient is drinking that their liver can handle they may develop cirrhosis where your liver doesn't And that's the first sign of liver I remember a Punjabi patient I saw who was only 40 and came in with vomiting blood and i was so i was and liver is nothing and i can't did he look healthy? he looked healthy he looked healthy and then he came with so i went there i put this rubber where you know it is bleeding it's cool but it go in and then i put a scope inside the esophagus all i saw was just blood pouring all the blood is just backed up. And these oesophagus bolld vessels Just ruptures, one second, so your liver processes the Correct. When it comes to food, different For instance, bile secreted Correct it is secreted by liver. the liver processes alcohol, liver actually detoxifies eyerything. Detoxifies? The liver is aware that However, this process if done regularly over a Overtime your liver becomes weak becomes shrunk that is what cirrhosis is? The liver can only and if it's exceeded, scar tissue can form, And there are stages, 1, 2, 3, it takes at least seven ten years based so the key thing I'm people think that social drinking when i grew up if i drink alcohol if my father knows that i'll be outcasted In US, if you refuse people will ask if Nothing wrong right? In the term social drinking I think it's high time and then say that liver cannot keep on saving you want to know something people nowadays don't even smoking cigarettes but smoking weed in all urban cities i think people are very aware that see effectively i see a lot of because everyone and everyone knows these also with alcohol I'm coming what happens is you you lose usually at i've seen the people lose because they realize the this is not everyone I barely have any friends but that wasn't the case I used to drink every week, it was just how urban india is in addition to alcohol the non-alcoholic problem also that is where I'm saying beer and biryani and belly. Three B's is your underlying So when you drink alcohol, you're going to have side dish. Okay, okay. And you're going to eat So there's excess calories, more belly fat, and there is another disease Just with extra belly the cirrhosis can happen. And 10 years ago, the where cirrhosis, the treatment for cirrhosis is you there is nothing else, there is The treatment for liver, for liver transplantation and hepatitis C. Now, non-alcohol obesity related That's why I'm keep on and non-alcoholic rapid progression to Okay. Again, I'll come Because I've made all So I'm kind of relaying a Personally, for me, and this Personally, for me, it was difficult And then every month you reach a point where You reach exactly that you were before you at age 13, 14, you know, everyone I'll never drink in my life. And then suddenly college Bad friend, you know, influences It's fine. My own experience was that I lost And I went from drinking this right now, at Now I have like a fresh And as long as you're a fun I think that's another to drink that they think So it helps them open up. But that's a problem that can All in all, again, keeping comparing my health to the who've not really focused It was one of the I'm glad I stopped There's also part of me that's because I finished But at some point for I would personally recommend that It really, really helps. And the other tip I can give us you remember circadian rhythm, sunrise that gets blown out of the So I tell people that if you drink So I propose the US government to change the name of Again, I don't think people will The ones who want to drink these are very everyone is entitled to And truth be told, it's why doctors exist Correct. Very often. Go on. No, no. In this context, Let me tell you, my 30% of my medical If you follow with all these I will not have business at all. But realistically, realistically, I'm going to have more People are not going to you and me have spoken about I wouldn't have stopped listening to a But the but one advantage you keep reminding them. So maybe they don't Yeah perhaps that is the success. In my channel, I keep focusing Every video I always So people say that, okay, they are hearing my voice through the food and So keep on repetitive behavior Okay, next hot topic. Protein, specifically non Dairy also put in this category. I love this topic. How do we talk about I actually don't because there's a lot of But what's the 101? Everybody needs protein, minim protein requirement point If you are a 60 woman is even more important, you need to have 48 to And people stay away from too much of protein is going Number one myth For a normal healthy patient, if you don't have significant kidney Okay, then why are we when the high protein diet 1.5 gram where your body and on the top of it, if you then you need to Okay. And the last thing vegetarian versus From a gastroenterology I can clearly say that if you are on a plant your gut bacteria is Really? They will worship you. They will pour love. Thank you so much Thank you so much And in turn, it will give you the immunity So you're batting for veganism, vegetarianism, plant based. What about veganism In my opinion, I have tried But there's no much difference between But then that is So long term vegetarian diet, But that is something And it is not a severe problem to be In case if you go into that, what is the treatment? Supplements, B12 supplements, 30 days, 60 days, and then of increasing your B12 Until then, the problem is if you end up in that bucket, Okay. For those of you who don't know when you're going all out vegan, the one thing that out and out is D3 also not that much, What does B12 do? B12 is responsible Okay, so you get numbness and peripheral the nerves are getting That's where B12 needs that. Your nerves need B12. Yes, that is an issue. But that doesn't happen And animal based protein, when you do research on it's a very clear, especially red meat, there is significant where this proportions Beef, pork, mutton, goat, and even sometimes because chicken And because they are they need more dark muscle fibers So the leaner meat darker meat is chicken thighs. So red meat, you need the gut bacteria digest and then the protein And the enzyme is So basically what this does is I don't want to So you know, all the good deal with this, So the bad bacteria There's an enzyme called I'm taling a lot of It brings the fact that The chemical called TMAO That is being secreted in the intestine after and that gets absorbed If you look at all this people just eat carnivore diet and showing that this TMAO is All right. So I'm vegetarian, turned Okay, I'm not vegan. Like I eat ghee, I eat paneer. They're my two milk products. But I am going to bat for because I know how a because I have been I think the narrative, usually on the they'll show their own set of the vegetarians will show vegan will show their It's just how this world Research can easily to kind of bat for I've asked a lot of non Again, please correct I would assumethat again, and because we didn't our bodies get used to actually See, that's the that's the myth. Coming back to the previous successful one in 20 times. We were not eating meat every day. People eat complex So we if we are, we cannot There is no way we are evolution, So their diet was Look at Hazda and look It's exactly what you will see in gut bacteria a person correct so what i am saying is I'm okay you need that protein take protein content so i came up with this term dr palyterian so what i do is three meals 21 meals a week you do 80 percent plant-based okay which will come 17-18 meals plant-based you eat white chicken stay away from beef and pork and the reason I'm saying that is it is very clear that red are increased okay i know there are multiple proven beyond doubt that link that it is increasing the i am doing colonoscopies at the and if you look at the data in India why they eat beef a lot more than other states wow okay do you think that more vegetarian keyword more not vegetarian i Sometimes you eat meat, and I've noticed that while people they are reducing At least, that's what I could be wrong, but I think finding a balance rather than going to extremes. Keto diet, pure It's very difficult to stick to them I am not saying you if it works for you. Yeah. Personally, I prefer i always go for lifelong for me i cannot stay because i love the taste and spiritually it can be different The 80/20 diet plan of Dr. Palatarian, and 4 non-veg meals, By consistently Will make them think, next time when you order you might consider ordering Okay, so it's pretty easy to In our country. I'm not sure about I have some vegan it's easy to find vegan It doesn't taste Here, it tastes amazing and you won't even feel like However, non-vegetarian Yeah, 100%. I know vegetarians but as a non-vegetarian turned The price you pay for leaving I personally believe my in terms of my ferocity or my ferocity in the weight that's fine that's a trade-off uh the second thing I lost that you will be giving do you care about the process do you care about correct It boils down to that correct and my decision to become a As I grew older, I fell more I lost my dogs and that made me think a lot, etc. Ultimately, my personal experiences again as i said with your food preferences change i will not go back like even if it's such good meat has the kind of meat that i would have Adn there is not a cell in my Wow. It's just not appealing I won't look it as food. Wow, You know but again I don't know, everyone's Being a gastroenterologist, Being involved in gut it's become clear to me that gut That's why I've changed my diet to include And fiber there is no there is no fiber the only thing fiber and again coming back to the same our gut bacteria and if you want to we talked about I'm going to raise my kids exactly i will make sure in every meal that they take if they want to take chicken it's okay if it is okay because fiber is we limit red meat exposure two to three times a so that's why we i mean it's uh much much better uh chicken breast is much better okay uh one final section of the podcast uh we can do this fats is it related to gut health? Fats, yes yes especially saturated fat okay especially saturated fat. so what's the so saturated fat is a problem saturated fat our gut and we are seeing that uh all your processed if you look at it it's always and healthy polyunsaturated are good like olive and uh usually tell my fats a lot more okay and because literally fry Yeah. so as long as you're polyunsaturated again talking about avoiding for where there is I think it'll be okay okay my logic is I keep It's even better if you get your fat from a olive oil, avocado oil, Don't just stick The key is moderation, not you don't actually need correct boils down to the basics again there more healthier you'll be. it's very dry logic correct Dr. Pal that's the wow thank you yes absolutely, it is there anything I didn't ask I mean you have so one thing I can say is that you talked about your low right you know you only I always tell my your low is okay as if you have a family if you have it is your damn and to stay healthy and be a role model to them So that they become healthy, And your job is not done. Dr. Pal thank you. Something tells me this is not we will welcome you Thank you Ranveer I love having these conversations Thank you, sir. That was the episode for today. Absolutely love these Tell me how could I have Also, which other types of doctors I am constantly looking especially when it come to truth be told, we do lack a large number of english that doesn't mean I'm that just means I'm especially when it comes please recommend some guests for TRS we'll be back soon with more keep supporting, keep learning, and keep getting healthier. []