- All right, wish me luck. I don't think it'll be long. A while back I made a video about how pop-pop boats So many people commented that it would be amazing to And then brilliantly, a few from Makar Parman at the saying, &quot;Hey, we built a Do you wanna come and have a play?&quot; Like of course I do, but Like you can't go straight It makes sense to scale up in stages to see if the thing will work. So first they built a teddy as a proof of concept. Oh wow, okay. So it's the, I mean, it's but a bit bigger. How'd you fill this thing? (water bubbling) Well, now I want a drill powered pump. But I mean, so, but anyway, so there'll be a pocket of air here, but I guess that doesn't matter. This is how we power it. - So that's where it's gonna get heat from and it's powered with - Okay. I don't think I want that on though. - Okay, sure. - I think let's keep that off 'cause I want to see what the engine does. I mean it's just like with the mini one, you can slide that off, and 'cause you can see what's going on. Can I set fire to it? (fire roaring) Holy cow, okay. With the toy pop-pop boat, you can see and hear the because that top plate pops up and down. It's like a brr sound that you get. With this, the top plate so you can't straightaway But down here, you can actually feel the It's like 1, 2, 3, and look, Can you see that? 5, 6, 7, 8. (boat clanging) Okay, so sometimes that and it's quite surprising. The water's warm, but Despite being able to feel a decent amount of the progress of the boat is quite slow. So this footage is sped up, and of course there's no so Makar jumped in the water at one point to turn the boat around so that it would actually Once they got the medium they felt confident big enough for a human to ride in. Actually, they built the engine separately and then attached it to What I love is it looks like a speedboat. I bet it doesn't go like a speedboat. It's a nice design because you can just attach This is the tubing for the propane. So the gas tank will sit in the middle, and it feeds the propane around through here, and it So it splits there into two, and then those two each split into two. You've got four burners there. This is thermal protection, otherwise this tubing would melt. This plate here is popping in and out. I don't know if we'll get If that thing's gonna pop up and down, that's gonna be quite 'cause I'm gonna be in the boat. When you fill a pop-pop boat with water, the way you do it is you just submerge it, and because there's two pipes there, air will flow out of one pipe and water will flow in through the other, so it's dead simple. With this, it's not so easy because you can't just So with this one you can That's what that's for. But if you imagine doing if you fill this with water, it's just gonna pour out of here. So they've got valves at the back as well, these things here. So you close these off, fill it with water you keep this open so that, as you're filling it with And then once you close both of those off, you can then open the at the end of the pipes underwater, and it's not all gonna spill out. I think that's how it works. Do people agree? Good, I've got it. I mean, to put it simply, this boat was never meant to When you put the engine on the back, it's so heavy the whole thing tilts up. So we've got these floats to give the engine some buoyancy to try and match the buoyancy of the boat so it doesn't all tip up. Just now we've realized on the left side, port So I'm glad they figured this The floats are right next So it looks as if maybe there and then a crack formed, and Do we have replacements? - We're bringing them. - So they already exist. I mean, we're very much of life-size pop-pop boat technology Ready? (fire roaring) - You can sit on the red part, I think it would balance it And then you can take the you insert it. - [Steve] I'm using AI because the boat was so noisy. It sounds weird in places, but trust me, it's better than the alternative. That bit there was on they added some gaffer tape, I dunno why. But that So that's nice. Do I feel safe? Weirdly, I do, and it's The thing that scares me most is the loud sound that it's making because it's bending metal, you know, and normally in an engine but in this engine it's expected behavior. This is amazing. So you can see the cycle happening because this is going up It's interesting, you can't really see the And like, when it was first ignited, there was a lot going on; there was bubbles coming out. if you like, of engine operation, it's just water being sucked in and out. You don't see any air coming in and out. I'm gonna angle this around like this. I mean, it's amazing that Very rare that a pop-pop It's really nice to see that That's the frequency of the engine. It's so much slower than which makes that sound (brrrr). That's the frequency of the toy engine. Though interestingly, the fact that that metal plate can flex makes the engine less efficient. That's because the water inside that tank is boiling into steam. So you have this expansion of gas that forces water out of That's what provides propulsion. But if the vessel can that reduces the amount out the back of the boat. and it's the same thing that It's what makes the pop-pop boat so loud. This is about the same only it's massive. That's really interesting Why does the speed of the Like this boat is about 20 but it's not 20 times faster. It's no faster at all, in fact. I think that's because of something called the square cube law. The square cube law when you scale things up, like what happens when you take an object and double it in size. Like this cube is double but it's also double the So what happens to the volume? Well, this cube has a volume of one times one times one equals one. This cube on the other hand has a volume of two times two times so the volume has gone What about the surface area? Well, looking at just one of the faces, we can see that the surface which is one. Multiply that by six to get the total surface area of the cube because there are six faces. Whereas the surface area of is two times two, which is four. You can multiply that by six as well to get the total surface area of 24. So that means the surface area whilst the volume went So counterintuitively, the volume and the surface area I remember when my physics I was really surprised because I just thought everything would So to really hammer the point home, if I've got this one cube here and I want to multiply the then I can just grab seven more cubes. Look, now I have eight times the volume. And because I have eight cubes, I must have eight times But look what happens when into one single larger cube. Look, I'm losing all this surface area that's now on the inside. So you can really see how to volume goes down as I could talk about the but instead I'll link to some good videos on the subject in the But the square cube law is for lots of reasons. Like when you scale up a pop-pop boat, the volume of the tank goes up by the cube of the scaling factor, but the surface area of the That's important because the speed with which you can heat is limited by the surface area Similarly, the cross-sectional that provide propulsion for the boat goes up by the square as well, but the mass of the boat So the boat becomes harder to push more quickly than the It'll be almost impossible especially as some aspects of But it is interesting to note the speed of the boat seems to be about the same as the toy one. The other thing that's as you scale up is the Like how many cycles are there Really, you've got a simple You've got a mass, which is pushing and pulling on an elastic medium, the elastic medium being the just like the springy leads to simple harmonic motion. So you can model that As we scale up the boat, we're increasing the and when you increase you'll find that it slows down. Also the springiness that's gonna be related As you increase the volume of gas, that's like decreasing the which will slow down the so it shouldn't be any surprise much, much more slowly than the toy boat. I suspect this boat has a bit of a bias. Like if I held it straight like that, it would probably go that way. And by steering it like this, I'm essentially getting it which means I may never return. I don't think we need two pipes, like I don't think any It should just work with With the toy pop-pop boat, because you squirt water through one and the air comes out the other. With this, because of the way we fill it, we could just do it with one pipe, though I think to get this to work as efficiently as possible, we want to maximize the surface area of the pipe that's under the water, because the pipe that's under water is the thing that does So to be clear, this is all the way down to where So the level of the water oscillating around the When it dips below the water level, the steam that's now under water is being cooled by the surrounding pipe that's submerged in water, So it's going up and down in that way. So I think if you had you'd have a greater surface area, maybe this thing would Yeah, I don't think I'm gonna be able to chart a course back. Interestingly, the Well, no, it is going up There was a loud sound, the whole boat kind of juddered. I think I need rescuing. Are you rescuing me or are (Steve chuckling) See, now we're moving. It's almost as if there's By the way, the Ahhaa Science center It's all hands-on stuff that so if you're in the area, I strongly recommend you check it out. The thing that I love most about YouTube is I can make videos about the things that I and eventually the people who also think those will find my videos. That's very different to and it means that the viewers of my videos have become a kind of community of people who are curious about the world. They love solving puzzles and so I already know that But if you are also currently pursuing an undergraduate degree boy, do I have an internship for you with the sponsor of Jane Street is a company that solves problems but their summer internship program covers a variety of opportunities including quantitative trading, software engineering, strategy and product, all sorts of things. It's a paid internship, and places are available in New It typically runs for about 10 to 12 weeks between May and September, but there are some unique based on academic scheduling as well. You don't need a background If you love solving problems and you're excited about And if you're watching this video, there's already a good chance So check out janestreet.com/internships to find out more and apply. The link is also in the description, so check out Jane Street today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, and the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)