(NASA CHATTER) the south....I think we found what we came for." This was a real 190 page feasibility study of Why was the moon car a fantasy that became a I want to tell the story of the Lunar Rover on to create it with the overlooked reasons it was of this story, and the full one, it doesn't it explains how it got to where we are today. That is cool. Does this dust show This is my surface of the moon. There is actually website shows, testing stuff like rover design. I really was necessary to advance just...science. at the structure of the moon. and a deeper insight I'll focus on Apollo 15, but the rover the last mission to go to the moon. Before the layer of rock and dust on the surface. that people would just, like, sink There'd be no crust beneath them. We also had no idea how fine or rocky the surface super hilly, and with a really fine dust that "I've got so much dust on my camera, When the Soviet Luna 9 became the first object first images from the surface, but it also NASA began looking at proposals long But the regolith that they wanted to study, proposals that looked nothing like a traditional show that I'm taking this very seriously. We're engineer in a half shirt do a funny little skit. That's hurtful. I'm just going to hide down here. did not have to worry about identity theft fortunately, DeleteMe, today's sponsor, is here brokers that are buying and selling your data. I'm particularly worried about being phished take to fix it. But fortunately, Delete. me I think we're good. They will find your info I actually saved an example from my report. there maybe 18 years ago. I'd forgotten and now they will get it taken down. Thank you're the best. Now go ahead and try Delete Cool, dude. Visit joindeleteme.com/phil20 started right now. Okay, thanks for "To the untrained eye, it So they really wanted to learn about the actually help them do it. For one, it gives them he's pushing this heavy spacesuit around, and The person in here, in the rover, gets to life support, and that means that the EVAs, It also let them go way further on the moon. had a distance of 17 and a half miles, which could get. It could also stow and transport they had designed a lunar cart, after They landed on one, but the modular equipment car, and it still required the astronaut to expend still taking small steps for a man. I know, I know, sorry, I know. The point is, the rover could help a lot in but the very thing that we wanted to see, it posed Astronauts had to deal with big slopes, "Yeah, my camera is covered in dust right now." I mean, they were kicking up dust constantly. everywhere. And they're always talking about getting on absolutely everything. They had to come up with creative solutions. hopping mode across the moon. It could have glorious lunar worm. It is crazy, but there's big slopes like those shown in NASA For a traditional vehicle, they considered donut elastic cone wheels, but landed on these ones. around all this. You can see them kicking report says more. These wheels look Traditional tires wouldn't work without traction. So these featured a woven piano wire wheels navigated the dust, and slopes, and rocks, so I'll be honest here, uh, it doesn't matter how moon rocks don't get me that excited, hundreds of pages of technical or you've seen all the different documents that you start to realize that the science Earth and also to some of the astronauts. even though the rest of this video is a bit The first extravehicular activity on the so called seatbelt basalt. It's called that he lied to mission control that he was to snag the rock and stow it away. and there's another one down there." "Maybe if you could put your scoop in it" of the oldest objects that humans had ever found. The moon rover was key in allowing that science "It is September 8th, 1960, dedication day Center." This is a transfer ceremony facility becoming NASA's Marshall Space Alabama. http: And it's part of a web of locations We aren't just seeing the building of a rover to build a space industrial complex. Marshall Space Flight Center in the 1960s. Mission Control in Houston or Cape Canaveral in The web of places and companies connected Center shows just how much investment and new industry. The rover was originally facility. a manufacturing facility in New It still shows how NASA wanted its massive how Marshall wanted to keep the rover them barge rockets up the Mississippi River, This, in turn, connected to the work done at they built in Arizona, where astronauts Private companies really wanted a big space they saw the rover as a way to The eventual winners of the rover didn't rake in high profits from the 40 million From their Santa Barbara and they coordinated with Marshall Pay attention to General Motors, the They thought space was a possible big new market. York, which had built the lunar module, had rover As did Ohio's Bendix, which had an tested a lunar prototype. The point of that you remember any of them, but that that wanted the military industrial complex to They saw big opportunity in a big space industry. None of them wanted to be left behind, and size purposes, the lunar rover popped out of the that the industry would expand in the same way. The rover happened because it represented the government wanted it, too. around the moon. is the Chief of the Guided Army's Redstone Arsenal, Dr. Werner von Braun." navigation system, but I want to get in another you can understand the Lunar Rover without "A voyage around the moon Wernher von Braun had been recruited to the army, to bring German scientists to the United States, SS, like von Braun. He was also overall director Von Braun is key not just because of his power, on Mars. That interest perfectly meshes with the early 1950s von Braun wrote what I can only it is a biblical reference but he even would be called the Elon. It's in the book. will be misinterpreted as an Elon simp rather Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, necessity of a space base on the Moon and on Mars. us to solve the more complex problems to come." like space station, but he made a Von Braun continued to argue in print and on TV, techno optimism aligned perfectly with the army's Soviet Union. That meant a moon base. Project outpost, and even in this grainy photocopy, All this worked in convincing the public a base. Look at this document. Space in the a Mars rover. So Von Braun was obsessed with with war in space. And for both of these I think that the Lunar Rover's is actually a great metaphor for what's going they used a dead reckoning system to navigate. The means that they precisely measured the direction To get back, they could just reverse course to it was dead reckoning from what was going on. which I think expresses our feelings. but a fire to be lighted. Thank you." So, why make this video at all? Did This was part of a recent SpaceX effort to catch But the success of Elon Musk's SpaceX was sort of Elon Musk to campaign alongside former election video, but please don't click away yet. silly it is to put SpaceX Musk and MAGA Musk in in a high school in the Philadelphia and was obsessed with one thing. multiplanetary (Overlapping dialogue)". (Overlapping) "And make life multi and make life multi planetary." I have come to believe that this is political at all. People want Starfleet rightly or wrongly, he's made a political I mean, Wernher von Braun became a Nazi to develop German rockets. He joined the "It will be many years yet before And then he became an American cold warrior going. In the absence of a cold war to Mars, Musk is using a culture war instead. Now let's say you think that take is I get it. Go ahead and throw it out. story shows that. Technological and scientific they are always secondary to political We are reasonably in awe of the incredible and even the basalt. We often overlook the and geopolitical competitions that is my argument for that statement? We took a car that could drive on the moon. Fifty years Hey, that is it for this one. Uh, thank you again um, to get your data removed from the in the description. Get 20 percent off. Chief Among Them was, uh, Really thorough book. Great journalism that nitty gritty details of the contracting, but had to kind of skim past. So check that book If you don't know I write a newsletter that but you can sign up and get it for free. just couldn't fit into the video. And this I think is pretty telling about the history Hopefully you'll go there and also supports this channel. And yeah, thanks of my hot take. I hope that it didn't make bath water. Because I do think that the Lunar But, you know, for me it just unlocked make sense. Why is this guy so political all think it's all about the Rockets for but let me know if you disagree, All right, thanks for being here.