What's up, guys? Quick disclaimer: This video That is the &quot;feeling&quot; language, if you will, but bear with me, because I believe that I think that everyone That's right 'T' users. You're not exempt We've all had those moments where someone and we're not quite sure how to respond what they want in the moment without escalating the situation We've all had those moments the response that they which can be frustrating, because We just aren't sure the way to go about it It can be especially frustrating Meaning that we like to go are talking to us about their feelings, &quot;Let's come up with a solution to this problem, rather than sitting there Just to jump into Myers-Briggs lingo, this could be a common thing for 'T' users. So Thinkers when they're talking But making your friends, or your partners, or whoever it may be's is so important for healthy communication, and understood in their feelings, that person I personally have had relationships and relationships where And the latter relationships and always made me feel When feelings are validated, both parties Therefore more understood. Therefore and ultimately more loved. Here's a quick guide on how Keeping in mind that I can only give you in such moments and certain The desire to actually want and to develop this ability I'll also mention that validating that the feelings need or that you have to agree but I'll get to that later. Just to disclaimer: I'm going generally from my experience in other people's relationships, I know that there is a lot but I just wanted to give because I do believe in And as an 'Fi' user, I have decided To start off with the good news, is that if you find yourself nervous because perhaps emotions are not you should always feel free &quot;Are you coming to me or because you'd just like to vent?&quot; That should give you a tip as to what But even if you are there to give advice, the process of validating the person's So the following is still relevant to you. First and foremost, you want to create a space You're going to want to approach this to the person's feelings, genuinely. This shouldn't be hard if you Perhaps the person has come or perhaps you've sensed that there's In the latter case, &quot;Hey, is there anything that or &quot;Hey, are you okay?&quot; or if you know the person particularly well, &quot;Hey, I've noticed that you've Is there anything that you'd like First of all, trust their answer Your job isn't to make them talk, it's merely to provide a safe space to share when they are ready. If they say &quot;no&quot; to talking, &quot;Okay. Well, if you ever need to talk or &quot;I'm happy to listen.&quot; and then confirm that with a more Making them a cup of tea, or going and sitting next to them, or suggesting that you This provides the groundwork and makes the person believe that because your actions Regardless of whether the person has your first role is always To listen, to understand That means, do more listening Make sure that at the start that your body language is open: You're facing them, you're not You're not leaning away. Remember that in this moment genuinely open to them and their feelings. Do not look at your phone Do not let yourself get distracted Practice active listening. That might be just nodding or saying periodic &quot;mmm&quot;, just to let them know that you're or responding through facial expressions, or simply just maintaining Staying present is the most important thing. That person needs to feel like 100% there for them and that nothing else Next: Don't make jokes, don't interrupt, if you want to tell a story about There will be a moment to do that, has expressed their feelings, If there is an organic moment of silence, ask questions to clarify rather than to seem like So things like: &quot;What were you or &quot;Where do you think that and if you need to clarify some &quot;Could you just give me so I could understand it Not questions like: &quot;Why did you do that?&quot; or &quot;Yeah, but what about how I feel?&quot; It's not the time! Remember that it's not Right now, it's about the person expressing And they will be open to hearing you out, if you hear them out yourself. But midway through their piece In fact, if you do it midway all they will hear is that Because you're trying to fight against it. The truth is that... and I want you to listen Come on, get closer. Their feelings are valid. No matter what they are, their emotional experience is valid. And they need to express that, So let them say their whole piece if there's an organic moment of silence, or small comments, such as: &quot;Wow. That's hard.&quot; Jumping back into MBTI lingo, for a second, This is important whether a person is because guess what? Everyone needs People need to be listened to, full stop. your role is to listen and to So you've had three roles so far: First: To be open and curious Second: To listen. Third: To try and understand. Next: We're going to move on This is the phase after which a person and it is your job to gently tend to it. So that you can help it to heal. After the person has and what they have to say what you say next will depend How well you know them, whether they're a Thinker But here are some tips that I personally after someone has opened up. Do not say anything to the effect of: &quot;You're being too emotional.&quot; &quot;You're just too sensitive.&quot; &quot;You're being overdramatic.&quot; and the worst one: &quot;It's just your time of the month.&quot; In fact, get rid of these phrases It doesn't matter what's The emotion is real and if it's not addressed is potentially going to be pent up and So it is in your best interest the person has just expressed to you. While we're on this topic, when people have just pulled &quot;Others have it much &quot;Just ignore them.&quot; &quot;Who cares?&quot; &quot;Try to stay positive.&quot; &quot;It will all work out in the &quot;At least you've got food and or other such phrases that A good trick is to repeat what the For instance: &quot;So you feel neglected when I choose on the weekend, instead of you.&quot; Hearing you repeat their feelings will make the person feel relief and not judged for feeling If they still seem confused help them to elaborate on their feelings &quot;How long have you been &quot;Where do you think that &quot;What were you thinking &quot;How do you wish things Next: To further nurture their try phrases, such as, and 'T' users, you're gonna want to click off but trust me, it's in your best interest future relationship you're especially if it's going to be &quot;That must be really hard. I'm sorry &quot;It's completely fair that &quot;Thank you for sharing that with me. or less &quot;emotional&quot; ways of saying that: &quot;Thanks for sharing with me. I now understand &quot;I really appreciate your vulnerability.&quot; &quot;That sucks. It sounds like you've &quot;That's super understandable If you are close to the person, &quot;I love these chats because I get to &quot;I respect and admire you so much &quot;You're really brave for &quot;You've been through so much and I'm Hopefully you'll sound more when reciting these lines to a camera. All of these phrases recognize that the person has been on I understand that some of those phrases but there are always other ways that are specific to your The important thing at the end of the day is that you recognize the emotion and let them know that you're still here. Not judging them. Just loving them. Next: To normalize their emotions, try using that their experience or emotions &quot;No wonder you didn't want to go to that party... &quot;Of course you're worried about... Nobody wants to run into their ex This is where you can recall a personal to the person's experience, but only... with the intention of understanding that Not with the intention of making Do not try to relate through if you do not have actual experience that the person has been through. If you haven't gone through but you try to tell them &quot;I totally understand what Here's this loosely relevant story the exact emotional response That's just gonna make the The next important thing is to apologize This is important especially with a closer person to you and they've when you act in a particular way, or just anything that involves you which we all do in relationships. I should mention we also make mistakes It's totally fine to just apologize For instance, they might say: &quot;When you talk to me this way, Again, remember even if you their emotional experience is still real In this case, try saying phrases, such as: &quot;I now understand how &quot;It certainly wasn't my intention to hurt you, &quot;I'm sorry that my actions &quot;I'm sorry for not being more sensitive &quot;I'll try to be a little bit more and obviously, if you've done something apologizing, flat out, If you feel bad, but don't know or want to help, but you Try asking questions, like: &quot;What can I do to help make this or &quot;How would it be helpful for me You're not a mind reader. It would be unfair for anyone to expect you So it's totally fine to ask questions. You're both two people who different life experiences You're not gonna immediately be in tune So it's fine to ask for On the flip side, it's also really helpful If you find that you disagree with and find the need to stand up that's fair. Your feelings are valid too. So it's important to express that, but remember that this does not So you need to express while still acknowledging their emotions. I know that this can be really hard, but here are some more tips that's the first time It's one of the nicknames Now I'm going to share with you in these situations: When you want to refute whilst still making them feel that is: Instead of using the word &quot;but&quot;, use &quot;at the same time.&quot; So instead of: &quot;I hear your feelings, You're saying: 'I hear your feelings, The latter is less confrontational and it conveys the message are allowed to exist at the same time, rather than using &quot;but&quot;, and can also make it seem like you're Another important thing to remember is that when you're expressing your make sure that you're avoiding blame. Try using language, such as: &quot;It would be helpful for me if...&quot;, &quot;I'd really like to be better at...&quot; So that might look something like: &quot;I understand that you were feeling hurt I don't really have a good So it would be really helpful for me, maybe, telling me in the moment I understand that's hard for you but I'm really not good at reading If the conversation goes really well &quot;Gosh! I feel so much better. Another approach might be to say: &quot;Of course! I'm always here for you. I'd like to share a little bit In my experience, the person If they say: &quot;Not right now&quot;, because they feel vulnerable, or tender make sure you do still express that talk about your feelings. Something like: &quot;Okay. Would it be okay if we talk about Remember, and I'll say it again, that your feelings are valid too. So it's important for you to find healthy Otherwise, they could just build which comes out in really terrible ways. Your final role is to be but kind in your honesty. Generally speaking, it's important for both parties to in order for the relationship to flourish. The good news is that if you fulfilled being curious about the person's feelings, listening, understanding, and being honest in return, in that order, the other person will be much more Don't be disheartened if it takes time They don't happen overnight. but they are 100% worth it I wonder how many Thinkers made it Are you a Thinker making it Let me know in the comments. Thanks for listening, guys. There's, obviously, more nuance to this but that's just a little bit and things that I have found work for me. Hope that you got something out of this Bye!