What is up engine heads! Today, it's time to review engine design and our subject today is the Avadi very interesting design. We have two crankshafts, cylinder rotates. And today, as always, we are what are the advantages of this design, as and of course we're going to discuss the potential for So, let's get started. Now the first thing that came kind of like a gyroscope because&quot;. When you think crankshafts rotate within the cylinder as the Okay, that's fun, but why? Because there really is performance or efficiency or weight or size the cylinder rotate. So why would you do it? To So how did they make the cylinder rotate? The the crankshafts has a gear attached to it. As the along on a fixed stationary ring gear. The fixed engine. Because the fixed gear doesn't move and it makes the entire cylinder rotate instead. And shaft attached that is part of the cylinder, so the output RPM of the engine. This is our torque if you want to make something rotate in relation even more efficient ways than gears. Because They also add friction. So, why gears? If we look online sources you will see how they claim that torque output, and yes, that is certainly true, does allow you to manipulate the torque output of take the same gear sizes and relationships as in gear and a large gear, and if we say that the small have a 2:1 gear ratio. Now in the Avadi, our so 2:1 gear ratio. What that does is that at the input gear, then our output RPM at the 500 RPM. Of course, because due to twice as large gear can only make one revolution while the But the larger circumference of the large gear also the output, the center of the gear and the teeth, torque is let's say 50 Nm at the small gear large gear. So, yes, the gearing present in the heart does any geared transmission ever made, because same principle, that's how they manipulate torque So why put gears inside the engine when it probably anyway? And also, if you really just double it? Why go to a 2:1 gear ratio when you So Avadi's explanation doesn't quite make they're going for a 2:1 gear ratio. Well, the answer to of the four stroke reciprocating piston internal geared like this, why 2:1, why the cylinder What else in a four-stroke engine has a 2:1 gear Think about it, what else does connected to it, does two revolutions? Yes, it's the camshaft in a four stroke engine they have a 2:1 the crankshaft completes two revolutions within to be done because the four stroke engine needs 720deg or 2 * 360deg to complete one full combustion cycle Each stroke: intake, compression, combustion, to top and each stroke is 180deg of crankshaft intake valves, which are operated by the camshaft same or another camshaft, you want them to be open intake valves open only during the intake stroke the exhaust valves open only during the exhaust What you have to do to crankshaft rotation into one quarter of camshaft rotation into 90deg of camshaft rotation and a done that all you need to do is size and position desired valves only during the desired strokes and the valve will be closed. And you do the same for properly working four-stroke engine. But if we go engine does not have valves or camshafts or valve one of the simplest valve trains you're ever going of the Avadi consists of nothing other than three cylinder and in it there is one hole. The outer cylinder rotates the hole aligns at certain times When the holes align air is allowed to either When the holes don't align the chamber is sealed the engine and the 2:1 gear ratio do is that they into 90deg of cylinder rotation. So what essentially the cylinder is one stroke, so all you have to them to match at the correct time for the correct a constant and consistent rotation relationship position of the cylinder in relation to the outer this is why we have the gears because they allow This extremely simple valve train, which doesn't parts or takes up a lot of space is the reason why The Avadi is an air-cooled 250cc engine which weighs only equivalent conventional four stroke engine of 250 Some weigh a lot more. So what was actually done allow great simplicity and weight reduction in the is not the only benefit of employing this system. of the anatomy of the Avadi engine. The main benefit improved balance compared to a conventional conventional design to see, to understand how the single cylinder, we're going to have one piston, It has a mass, accelerates, decelerates constantly, that must be balanced out if we want to prevent this in a conventional design with the crankshaft counterweight, top and bottom dead center, the mass out if we make the mass of the counterweight that at 90 and 270deg the crankshaft counterweight the direction of the movement of the piston so it creates a side-to-side rocking and vibration We just just moved the up-and-down vibration and the crankshaft counterweight. So this doesn't work. single cylinder design, the conventional design together, geared to the crankshaft or otherwise it it has an offset weight which can balance out we're going to make the crankshaft counterweight is going to be the other 50% of the piston mass. the crankshaft counterweight, now together with the and 270 degrees of rotation the balance weight is we have improved the balance but we have not made dead center you can see how underneath the downward force because the crankshaft counterweight still remains, and there's a net downward force. On weight we have a net upward force. So we have direction so they should cancel each other out and are separated by an offset, a physical distance and equal magnitude, opposite directions separated by a You're essentially trying to flip the object over. of object you're going to see how it works, it's with a balance shaft but we also have a new kind of So balance is not optimal, to get an optimal balance have to add two balance shafts located on either counterweight 50% of the piston mass and each of as you can see at top and bottom dead center we distribution of the forces is now even. As before balance out the crankshaft counterweight. So to cylinder we need two balance shafts. By the time the gears and everything needed for them and realize that, first of all, you not only increased friction to the extent where you could just have why two balance shaft on single cylinders are not we go to the Avadi now we're going to see that the out of the box. At top and bottom dead denter each mass and so together they balance out the piston. they balance each other out, so we have pretty much the crankshaft counterweights are very very close to bit of distance between them, so if you observe a rocking couple here. But as I said the distance unnoticeable, and for all practical intents and pretty much perfect balance, while being much more cylinder with twin balance shafts would be. But the If we observe the conventional design we can see pushes it down, the connecting rod is at an connecting rod is outside the line of the force the movement of the piston. So what happens is when connecting rod is in turn trying to flip over. As the cylinder wall thus increasing the friction increased wear on what is known as the thrust this problem because we have two rods, so as each to flip over in its own direction. So what they do remains more stable in the bore and we have pretty good for the Avadi. We have a design that compared to a conventional design, while at the reduced friction. What's not to like? Well that's are not so likable about the Avadi engine. And to see of the Avadi that we can find on their website, and makes 15.8 horsepower at 3,700 RPM and 30.2 Nm makes their engine &quot;twice as powerful competitor engine&quot;. So we have to ask ourselves what most certainly not a motorcycle engine, because overhead cam, very inexpensive, a motorcycle with the Avadi. So that is obviously not the nearest a bit more humble. Let's downgrade to find the So a bit more cc than the Avadi. It's a power equipment side we can see that this is sort of where the Avadi Because this weight of the gx270, it is with the fuel tank but still there's some mass in it, and the tank I think the Avadi claim, this is competitor is a power equipment engine? Actually, no. a power equipment engine only because it's kind of at the output shaft, remember that is geared down. of the Avadi would kind of be the same thing as transmission and nobody does that. We give power if we do that for the Avadi, remember 2:1 gear ratio, rev to 7,400 RPM to make this kind of power, 15.8 is actually around 15 Nm of torque. The Avadi is Just like pretty much any other power equipment GX at the crank actually makes more torque than twice as high with similar torque you're going to a 7,400 or more RPM redline the Avadi needs a better bearings, a much more advanced and the engine a lot more expensive, probably puts it motorcycle engine. So you need motorcycle engine engine performance? Yeah, nobody wants that. So why is very obvious if we go back to the valve train, engine we have the entire area of the bore of two intake valves, two exhaust valves, so all of the only half the bore area is available for breathing, cylinder sealed. We cannot put valves or any area of the Avadi. So, half the breathing capacity and this is inherent to the anatomy. it cannot be have, in this design at least, is destined to have of the Avadi is that this design is not scalable. Avadi claim it is - but it is not. Because, remember, the cylinder rotates. If the cylinder rotates, we cannot like we can with a conventional design. For example 8 crankshafts and 12 big gears in it. So the engine very complex, far too many moving parts, So the Avadi is actually scalable only up to the which is around 800cc. Anything beyond that, the in cars it can only be a range extender. For for single cylinder motorcycles it's not a good What else? For power equipment it's far too Well that's actually a very good question and I think I found engine designs on this channel and I think the I think this is the main driving force behind this Because when you think about it, the Liquid Piston, focused on one thing and that is to be lightweight They really don't beat the conventional design in not in efficiency, not in reliability for sure, the valvetrain, does it seal? The holes, how does it but none of that really matters for drones. What is and as compact as possible. It doesn't even have drones and what this means is that the rise of of leveled the playing field between engine and new guys in the game. Because drone engines, the benefit from almost a century of R&amp;D invested in playing field in terms of access to the potential they have a lot of money and they are willing to because they're hoping to have better drones than get money from the army we have new engine designs to the point where they can be presented to the at all the novel engine designs and how they online it's very similar. Usually we have, generating phase. We have some sort of simple, crude &quot;twice the power half the weight better in every these claims are usually half truths or only true because they prepare the field for the next phase which is usually the crowdfunding phase, where the engine designers develop the design a bit further to just hopefully So that they can apply for the serious funds from of millions of dollars and that is realistically design to actual maturity. And when you do your was actually designed and developed in the '90s, but it was not marketed until just a few The engine was pretty much obscure before that. Because it didn't fit that well with any other applications, but for drones it might work, so we Avadi on their website, in the news section now claim because they have seen how it is a limiting factor from day one, but they needed that valvetrain and initial very low weight and now they're oriented design. Also, here they claim, in this for the army money, so yeah, it all really this engine in a car or a motorcycle, probably But we might see it someday in a drone, even if It's going to be some confidential stuff or makes this engine any less exciting. I think it is a very interesting, very elegant design and I think analyzing novel engine designs is definitely deepens our understanding of engine it might inspire you to create a novel design Yeah I'm going to stop right here, that's lot for watching, I'll be seeing you soon with