We are on the hunt for the rarest, and most elusive waterfalls Here, at the very top of the planet, this magical ice waterfall runs straight off and will be a whole new kayaking experience -We go with the kayak. -And then we go... -Over the waterfall. There are several challenges before we can even think about running them. But, first, we have to find them. ANIOL:First, we travel to the very And from there we headed north deep inside the Arctic Circle. We have just left the world's and are now sailing aboard this polar research vessel. Ooh! This one's spinning. Oh, my God. We are aiming for the uninhabited We have a rough idea but we don't know for sure Into the fog. Wow. It's so thick. It's impressive that He's the man. If something go wrong, Where is the wall? there! -I can see. Bro, that's a wall. It's there. Look at that. -The wall is there? It's the fucking wall right there. Finally, we are here. Wow. But it's quite high, huh? -Yeah. -It's quite high. So, like today, we just look Then we try and find a way Oh, fuck. Imagine that happens We just saw a big piece of ice and it created this huge wave. And you start thinking, When we go up, So, oh, scary. That was a big piece. We really need to take a look I'm sure we'll find nice waterfalls. Wow. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Man, see how the water has made, This is going to fall any time, huh? All right. Yeah. Yeah, it will come It's pretty, but... It's good, yeah? That's good. We are looking for lots of water, and that provides us soft landings. There's lots of waterfalls. It's just hard to find them Small and sketchy. There's about 160ks of cliffs, I'm sure we'll find something good. Oh, my God! This is fucking perfect. Wow. That is amazing. I'm not gonna go to... So I really think the most beautiful waterfall And now the main thing is Uh, we found this other place It's a good access point and way easier than up there The ice wall is much larger here, So we can't get any closer. We are going to have to walk Our guides have come up with a pretty but now we need to check and see if he's okay with that. Fingers crossed. Oh, so this was the one Oh, the one on the bow. Yeah, we will make it somehow. -Yeah. -If you're happy we can go, Benni? No route is without fix. [ALL LAUGHING] All right. So now the plan is Philip will get up the ladder, and from there, It's dangerous to be under the ice, so we got to do it quick and get out of there From what we have scouted it doesn't look like it will be easy. So we will need to be prepared crevasses and much more. On top of our usual kayaking gear, we have a lot of specialist equipment Ice-climbing equipment, polar bear protection, and a ladder. Go light, they said. Didn't happen. [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] What is the distance now, I think 10 meters closing. Distance 5 meters closing. Distance 3 meters closing. Nothing. Hit the rubber, Benni, Now maybe if you're happy with that, Before lights went out, [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] -Hold on that. And then when he's up, -Okay. Back out. Back out. Now we can go back out I'm coming, start now slowly. After that, they shouldn't... Now it's time for us to get up there. There's a ladder set up. Phil is on top, From there we're gonna hike and if it looks good, and kayak down the waterfall. It's on now. No turning back. Okay. We are going. Good luck, guys. [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] I'm very happy I don't have to climb or jump off it. [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] PHILIP: We are in the ice. Oh, how is that? I'll go a couple meters -Yeah. it's not gonna be pleasant, At least I'm pretty sure ANIOL: It's a trip of many firsts. All right. We are in the ice. Only myself, Aleix, and Philip will I can help you out with the ladder. -This ladder is heavy. -Thank you. Many more to go. But I'm afraid of taking a long time -I think maybe four, five hours. If they do eight kilometers like that then they are fast. Now they were moving ten meters. How many you have? [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] ALEIX: I'll help you. -He is dancing. Nice expedition Yew! Interesting. This is the first big river Phil is walking up. Looks like there's a good spot there. It takes time, We've probably crossed over 30 so... probably as good as it gets, I think. PHILIP: All right? [WATER GUSHING] PHILIP: Step by step, eh? PHILIP: I guess we didn't bring it Yeah, buddy. ALEIX: Like, you see this and it still took us some time, so. PHILIP: Let's get rolling. ANIOL: From there. I'll jump into the shallow part. PHILIP: Good morning. Way too shallow. [UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING] -All right. I hate this fucking ladder. Oh, pain in the ass for you? Oh, man. If we end up making it, I think we'll have to name ALEIX: Just keep smashing. Philip, Philip, Arran. PHILIP:Yeah, Arran, go ahead. What is your ETA PHILIP:We are, I think, about a couple hundred meters but quite high up. Standby. I will, uh, have a chat ARRAN:Uh, copy that. Um, well, I can check it right now. -Huh? We're not sure what river It's a maze of thousand rivers. Therefore, we're gonna have and make sure we're on the right one. ANIOL:We need to make sure There is a huge maze, and we don't want to end up and off the wrong part of the cliff. ANIOL: I think the boat is that It's got to be it. Yeah, that's a boat so... PHILIP: Yeah. Finally, we're here. [TRANQUIL MUSIC PLAYING] That was really fast. It's bigger than I thought The entrance is tricky Not easy, but, uh, it's beautiful Almost better for me to stop. Oh, I need a radio to let them know, -We'll be there. -Yeah. -Tough, man. No worries. Good luck. Enjoy it. Be safe, yeah? Thank you, guys. [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] PHILIP: Arran, Arran. Philip. ARRAN:Go ahead, Philip. Go ahead. Aniol will get ready and I'll give you a countdown [TRANQUIL MUSIC PLAYING] -Yeah? Aniol dropping in 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 and drop. [TRANQUIL MUSIC PLAYING] ANIOL:Okay, okay, PHILIP:Ah, man. The most scary part of everything. ALEIX:Aniol, you have any doubt? I repeat, Aniol, you have any doubt? My pulse is going up. [DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING] ALEIX:5, 4, 3, 2, 1. ALEIX: This time, we're waiting. Hey, guys. All good down there? Yeah, first he dropped [UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING] You all right? Oh, yeah, man. What do you got to say to that? You can't say anything about that. No, all of you guys, and, Philip, he deserves... Philip's Ladder. [MUSIC INTENSIFIES]