Miss How come there is no one here to see? Lieutenant Yoshiko They won't all be hiding, will they? Just hide it. I'm afraid they are aiming their guns at us secretly. No way You made me feel cold down my spine. Relax your right shoulder and wrist Leaning on your left shoulder Keep your breathing even and calm. Pick important targets When the bayonet fight Stay where you are Get off the bus, get off the bus, the New Fourth Army is here. Hide quickly Give me a rush Lie down quickly superior The Japanese troops are coming! Don't be nervous Wait until I shoot before you shoot. Beat hard how's it going Chief of Staff, no problem. good Concentrate all your firepower from here. To hit hard The Japanese firepower must be Attract all of them, you know? clear good Three minutes later, the attack yes Walk A row leader is Bring all the machine guns over here. yes Brothers, hit me hard there That seems to be the commander of the New Fourth Army Kill him He's gone. Keep an eye on him. Brother, why don't we fight? Wait, we can't expose it. Lieutenant, their firepower is too strong Go! You hit the right side and I hit the left side yes beat Give me the grenade Heavy Chief of Staff, be careful chief of staff chief of staff Chief of Staff Fight with you Fight with you Fight with you Second Lieutenant Sakai Second Lieutenant Sakai Sakata Sakata-kun, are you okay? Go back quickly, it's dangerous here No, let's go together. I won't abandon you Go, this is an order. But You must return alive. To complete your mission Sakata Miss You must ensure Lieutenant Sakai's safety. Go back soon yes Sakata Miss, please go away. Go away, I won't go Go for a walk rush Call me, call me Nakamura-kun, Miko and I are responsible for the machine gunners You command the team to charge at full force. yes Machine Gunner, follow me. Holiday Army Dangerously Lying Down Lying down Not easy to fight It's okay. It's okay. Change place and fight Death Star Xiugu, please leave quickly! Where The woods over there Go fast Lying down Call me Call me Ohno Lieutenant Sakai, you retreat first. No, I'm staying here. No, you must withdraw. I am the commander here. Miss, please go away. I will stay. No, I can't keep you here any longer. You are the hero of our Great Japan You have no right to be here. Let the enemy show off your corpse I ask you to leave immediately Ohno-kun is right Miss, please go away. I will stay. no I can't let the person who killed my husband Slipped away from me again Sakai I stay Don't worry, I promise to kill the unlucky star Ohno If you don't leave, I will kill myself here Responsible for the shame brought upon Japan Miss, please go away. Ohno I really can't leave Do you really want me to be in front of you? Suicide by caesarean section? Ohno Don't worry, miss. I will never let that unlucky star go Take care, Ohno-kun Yoshiko Remember to come back alive Don't worry, miss. You have to take care of yourself too Take care of yourself Call me Ohno Good shooting who Japanese sniper The Woman Don't shoot. Don't shoot at all. Don't move Lieutenant Meiko, please leave now. elder brother elder brother Don't talk I have to get her to shoot. Does Xiugu have a grenade? have Xiugu Throw the grenade as soon as it catches fire Don't worry She showed her head pull Xiugu, give me your hand I'm fine bro Be patient. Are there any Japanese soldiers? It should be gone. Kill one There is one who is not sure whether he is dead or alive It seems she ran away. Walk Be careful Let me hide behind you again What a woman You deserve it A woman is not at home Why are you coming to China? This gun is the same as yours. Give it back to her Why? This gun belongs to this woman. Let's go Go quickly You two go over there and take a look. yes Brother, we should go back. Xiugu Is he alone? He's the only one Xiugu broken Xiugu Are you looking for the wounded? I've looked there and there's no one. Why don't you ask them for help? Too many people is useless daughter daughter Don't yell or I'll shoot you dead Cry and keep crying cry blubber daughter Niangniang Xiugu walks Let's go Bro, no one Then find Girl, stop crying. The dead cannot be resurrected You won't survive even if you cry. Stop crying. father That family just died tragically. father What's wrong Niangniang wrong Xiugu MikoMiko Yoshiko Yoshiko Yoshiko I will definitely avenge you I swear Death Star Go faster. Go faster. Follow closely and walk faster. Let's go and see what's going on. Let's go quickly. Hurry up, walk faster, follow closely behind Head of Group Captain, what are you thinking about? The common people in front are being harmed by the Japanese army. We have other tasks. Well, we can't just stand by and watch someone die. Lao Guo, what do you think? The Japanese intentions are still unclear Feel the situation first and then decide Everyone, listen up. No one is allowed to move without my order. I have heard everything. Please give the order. You lead a reconnaissance team. Go to the village first to find out the situation I led the troops around from behind. Let's meet at the east end of the village All right, you three, follow me. There must be something going on We went good quick What is the situation It's not clear yet But a few people in plain clothes entered the village Do you think they are from the New Fourth Army? It seems This time we caught them. You go back first Wait until they all enter the village before fighting yes Let's go to the front and wait for him. Walk fast Walk faster. Walk faster. Follow closely and walk faster. What are you looking at? Hurry up and walk faster. Walk faster, follow closely. Hurry up, hurry up What are you doing? Hurry up and go. Holiday Army Girl You two throw it over there and see First, let's find out the number of these traitors. Don't alarm him. Understand and go Let's go catch it alive. good The commander does not look like a large Japanese army So what are we waiting for? Head of Group Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up Go away, you old fool Hurry up and see what's going on Come on, you old man. Don't touch him you traitor dog I touched the little bastard If you keep talking nonsense, I'll make you leave. What law have we broken that you are arresting us? You all know the New Fourth Army Why so much nonsense? Go fast There are about twenty people inside. They are all traitors in plain clothes Going Around Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up stand up Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up Go faster, faster, faster Hurry up and follow me. Hurry up! Go fast Let's go You go first. You go first. Hurry up, kid. Don't move Don't move, I'll kill you. What are you doing here? The Japanese army has news that they are arresting village cadres. Your New Fourth Army is stationed in this village How many people Twenty-three people No Japanese troops No The Japanese army said they could not capture the village cadres Destroyed this village Destroy the village and kill Head of delegation Head of delegation Twenty-three plainclothes officers, no Japanese soldiers Looking for us It is said that the Japanese army got the news This is the village where we live. The Japanese troops will come. Why only send some plainclothes officers? Yeah, I'm also confused. But they asked the people to hand over the village cadres Otherwise, this village will be destroyed. He dares The head of the group, the village cadre Lao Zhao and others are in danger The Japanese volunteer team has been chasing us I think it might be nearby. It only takes a pack of cigarettes to chop up these bastards. When the Japanese came, we left right We should have no problem making a quick decision yes Little Girl arrive Lead three people to guard the surrounding area of the village Li Xinghua Zhang Xiang Arrive You go outside the village to support the little girl. Listen to me first If an accident happens, don't expose it. Little Girl You move closer to them Forming two forces, internal and external, understand? clear Are you afraid of a Japanese attack? Just in case Listen up, everyone. The rest of the people entered the village in two groups. Some of them followed me in from the east end of the village The other part followed Guo Mantun into the village from the west. Remember not to fight Rescue the civilians and evacuate immediately action Walk fast and keep up listen to me You two, move forward. This rocky beach is easy to hide. If the leader encounters an accident We have to withdraw from there. Remember not to reveal your identity unless it is absolutely necessary We must ensure that the large forces are withdrawn from there. Go ahead Good, good going. Walking apricot blossom You three will follow me and keep watch around the village. If you encounter any situation, immediately meet up with Zhang Xiang and others. clear Yes Catch up They entered the village Then I'll surround them. No Wait until they all enter the village before fighting They might put up a guard outside. You send three teams to find Cut off their ears first. yes Follow me Death Star I'll see how you run this time. Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up Go faster, faster, faster Come here, come here, come here, come here, come here, come here, come here Stand still. Stand still. Stand still. Stand still. Stand still. Hurry up. Stand still for me Don't make any noise I won't say any more nonsense. Which of you is a village cadre? Come forward. So that I won't let down the old and young men in the village. I know you're in there. Don't be a coward. Let the people die for you You can't do less evil Leave yourself a way out Who is Stand up for me Stand Out machine gun Run faster Hurry up and catch up superior Lay down your weapons and surrender them. Don't move. Don't move. Put your hands up Get up, folks. Captain Peng, you are here! Lao Zhao and the village cadres quickly led the people to evacuate The Japanese troops are coming soon. good Come on folks, evacuate quickly! Quickly retreat! Prepare to evacuate yes Running into the village Catch up It seems that the commander's order is correct. what to do According to the commander's order Don't expose it yet But the captain They'll find a way out. Then let's go meet up with the little girl. Good walk Holiday Army arrive Go support Lao Guo yes Give me the machine gun Brothers, call me. Baldy Wang Commander, the Japanese troops have entered the village to the west. The Japanese army was well prepared Towards death surrounding us I see Can you hold on? fine Bandage it yourself first The Japanese army is not in a hurry to rush in They want to push us into this yard. We must break out immediately In the east, there are Zhang Xiang and the little girl. Or you are thoughtful Organize everyone to break out from the east of the village yes Push them into that yard yes Let's fight separately. yes withdraw Evacuation withdraw How's the girl? We have to attack from behind the Japanese army Don't worry, let me think of a solution. Commander Peng has been surrounded by Japanese troops We have to have a fight outside. The key to tearing is how to tear it The girl is right Let me think let me think Such a loud I go inside Hit the Japanese from behind Get their attention You two fight from here. We work together good Okay, that's settled. Remember not to drill into death Give me the apricot grenade good Holding I want to beat these Japanese soldiers to death Be careful Why didn't you shoot? Aren't you here? They have people outside The star of death must be outside Rush in Visitors quick Head of Group You listen It's the little girls. They are distracting the enemy. It's time to break out This old Guo I'll leave you here to lead the troops and withdraw quickly. That won't work. I'll stay behind to provide cover. You are the leader and you have to command the whole group. Comrades, whether we can stand out depends on you. Now is not the time to be naughty Get out of here! Then you better be careful Don't worry I'm waiting for you in the mountains good One row, leave the others behind and follow me. quick Bastard Apricot blossoms shoot a shot and change places First, hit the important places good See you on the rocky beach outside our village careful Death Star Organize everyone to break out from the east end of the village yes Quick Chase me quick Apricot Blossoms We're launching from here. The water here is shallow Enemy searchlight I will scan it within 15 seconds. We use the gap to pass quickly good Holding Give What is this for? Concealment good Walk good Are you ready? Walk Let's go Help me drag it over good quick We have to find a way Kill the Japanese on the tower Xinghua, please stay here to protect us. good Shiyue, come with me good careful Who what to do Shi Yue takes off his clothes What to do next We pretended to be Japanese sentinels Try to get closer to the tower good Play it by ear stop This is not your post. Please return to your posts immediately. Oda-kun has a stomachache He needs some convenience. no This is the war room. No one is allowed to enter without orders. stop Notice superior Walk stop Which department are you from? us Oda-kun has a stomachache He needs to go to the hospital Don't move They have sniper rifles. Ask them what they do Good! It seems Zhang Xiang and his team succeeded. Take action now good Crossing the River quick Keep up It's almost time Captain Peng and his men should have already taken action. Let's prepare to withdraw good Call me Green onions Why are you here? Hello What Got it? Send troops immediately. Send troops to reinforce the Daliushu outpost immediately yes The leader asked me to support you. You guys go quickly We're here. Time and Month shooting Where is Qin Shiyue? have no idea I am coming Where have you been? The Japanese army's clothes are too smelly I'm going to wear my own Here we are Don't fight Let's go Withdraw Go fast The Japanese troops are coming Apricot Blossom Walk Walk Walk Walk Walk Apricot Blossom Run Apricot Blossom Apricot Blossom Apricot Blossom Is Xinghua okay? Come on, let's go stand up Slow down and walk fast Xinghua, are you okay? Time and month You are also injured My skin injury is fine. Zhang Xiang takes Xinghua away first No, let's go together. Xinghua, you are seriously injured, stop making trouble and go away Hurry up and I'll cover you. hurry up quick Go fast Hashimoto-kun Wait for me We are finally This side Are you okay? fine Let me go You can't go If you must go You are crazy You're going to die. Aren't you also looking for death? If I go, there's still a glimmer of hope. return I'm telling you, don't forget Your mission is to lure the enemy. Lifan is coming for you If you die Kawasaki United will not continue to hunt us down Our mission cannot be accomplished. I don't care I don't care Zhang Xiang Our goal is not a chestnut rice The entire Kawasaki team He's coming for you. I have to throw you out as bait. To complete our mission Zhang Xiang, go away and leave me alone Zhang Xiang, go away! Listen to me, don't move. Leave me alone Zhang Xiang, go away and leave me alone Zhang Xiang, shoot me to death. Zhang Xiang, please go. Tell my dad I didn't bring shame to the Chinese people. Zhang Xiang, Zhang Xiang, take good care of my dad Take good care of yourself The star of death comes out Come out, you dead star You're a coward Come out to me Can you watch this woman die for you? Come out to me Zhang XiangZhang Xiang You should leave now. You go quickly Hurry up and take the apricot blossoms away Zhang Xiang, go quickly Zhang Xiang I love you We'll be together in the next life. Time and Month I know you're sad now. But we have to complete the task today. If you don't leave anymore We can't leave. Qin Shiyue also sacrificed in vain Walk quick Hurry up! Hurry up! Hurry up! Get out of my way, you guys. Yingzi Yingzi Yingzi Yingzi Little sister Little sister Answer me, answer me, little sister Little sister Little sister Little sister HidekoHideko HidekoHideko Yingzi Yingzi