- [Glen] Dome homes have and have been built around These have proven to be a stable and efficient form of shelter with a natural resistance like earthquakes, high This is Glen and today we are bringing you 15 domes and dome suites (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Number 15. - [Glen] Tessa and Dennis, the owners of Natural Spaces domes, after getting married decided to build one Their dome was built and earth-friendly building They wanted a house that had visual excitement and still This is a 46-foot, eight-inch covered in copper-colored If you would like to on how the home was built, you can check out the - [Narrator] Number 14. - [Glen] Designer Patrick Marsili proposed a revolutionary solar structure A dome house that can resist and could also withstand an earthquake up to eight on the Richter scale. Erected over an elastomeric belt and raised off the ground that is solidly anchored there is no contact with the ground and these are ideal for lands that are typically harder These are built with 100% that has no harmful a central chimney that disperses heat evenly throughout the home There are three models the Eclosion and the Transit, - [Narrator] Number 13. - [Glen] Located in the the Whitepod Eco-Luxury and it aims to prove that and hospitality can coexist to create a positive, unique Whitepod has limited motorized controls the use of water and energy, recycles all waste that is created and all pods are heated by a pellet stove. In the lodge you can enjoy a quiet walk in nature and Family pods include a large king-size bed, two children beds on the and a bathroom with a shower and toilet. - [Narrator] Number 12. - [Glen] Dome of Visions in Gothenburg is a cooperation project between NCC, the owner of the building and the concept, Chalmers, Volvo Group and The building was previously from 2015 until 2017 and The architect, Kristoffer Tejlgaard, was inspired by architect who had far-reaching plans to build the central parts under a dome in the 1960s. This is made of transparent with a height of approximately 33 feet and a diameter of more than 65 feet. The interior building behind the shell was designed by Stefania Dinea, a master student at the and her minecraft inspired house got first prize in the - [Narrator] Number 11. - [Glen] The Pearl, a is designed by David Fanchon The roof shape along with the gives the structure resistance against high winds and earthquakes, was designed with both the sun's daily and year-round course in mind, takes advantage of the and protects it from the Large bay windows in take full advantage of the while the adaptive roof during the hotter summer months. Inclining solar panels help to maximize solar energy and make the structure - [Narrator] Number 10. - [Glen] Custom geodesic can hold snow, wind and wood stove and climate control options, making them a perfect The geodesic dome is used by environmentally-conscious homeowners, eco resorts, retreats Depending on the size of the dome you can create a place of while utilizing the subtle vibrations within the architecture of the dome to complement the philosophy and physical well-being. - [Narrator] Number nine. - [Glen] Natural Spaces Domes MinneDome is the dome answer to tiny houses. The cost of the basic mini but to build a complete dome and shell kit it will run you between 60 and $75,000. - [Narrator] Number eight. - [Glen] Biodomes, a company can build geodesic dome homes or outside the EU Biodomes designs and creates glass, metal and concrete geodesic domes. Their brand-new patented technology offers the highest quality dome homes from both the aesthetic and - [Narrator] Number seven. - [Glen] EconOdome offers custom prefab building frame kits of assorted designs, new round and dome home technology and they do the computing and precision compound cutting for you. The standard phase for dome design may be fitted with arched trim boards above the doors and windows. This design's accent trim to control rainwater flowing The phase three dome is a home kit with larger and fewer triangles. This frame kit is more and do the necessary for doors and windows, it involves more on-site custom work. - [Narrator] Number six. - [Glen] Located on the in a mountain forest, the consists of eight dome suites. Visitors can drive through which is home to buffalo, Visitors can climb the Omolti volcano or descend into the Each suite comes with a king-size bed, luxurious bathroom with and huge bay windows The eco-friendly camp and employs a full solar plant to minimize its ecological footprint. The geodesic domes are also efficient because their spherical shape results in more even airflow to make them less - [Narrator] Number five. - [Glen] DomeGaia is a how to build your own, eco-elegant, high-quality with your own hands from scratch. During a level one 10-day workshop you will meet new people while learning the fine art These workshops usually and exploring local attractions. You'll learn how to use unique equipment to make and mass-produce AirCrete blocks, build forms for round windows and arches, use a compass to construct a dome and how to wrap your dome with a super-strong - [Narrator] Number four. - [Glen] A Norwegian made of toughened glass and aluminum around their off-grid house which is made entirely from a cob which is a mixture of sand, clay and straw in the Arctic Circle. Located on Sandhornoya the 25-foot high dome has is made up of 360 glass panels and shields the entire to grow their own fruit They then built a water treatment system where all the water and is pumped out into the greenhouse where plants clean the water Benjamin and Ingrid adopted Hjertefolger which means heart followers and spent $435,000 - [Narrator] Number three. - [Glen] Completed in 2012, the Peoples Meeting Dome was designed by Danish architects Kristoffer It was intended to be a gathering space for the Peoples Meeting in Bornholm, Denmark. By splitting the shape of the dome they created niches at the entrances that were oriented toward providing the framework for and indirect lighting. All the wood used for the is local-grown Douglas pine. - [Narrator] Number two. - [Glen] Built by Mark and Valerie Sigler the Dome of a Home is located and is an incredible monument of dome design and construction. This is 6,000 square feet and of the Gulf of Mexico The home features advanced construction and design techniques to help defend against the forces of nature. Since the house was built it and a tropical storm and - [Narrator] Number one. - [Glen] AURA frameless domes They're made of that are connected by tiny screws, are 100% transparent and UV resistant. These will hold up to any kind of weather including rain, wind and snow. This frameless dome has glass doors with locks made of tempered glass, is well ventilated with allowing it to breathe and this will remain stable in high winds.