-&quot;First rule of Fight Club is: You do not -VO: &quot;Sorry, Brad, we're totally gonna talk in 'Troy'. Spoiler: You rocked it.&quot; -Brad Pitt: &quot;Cool.&quot; -VO: &quot;Cool indeed, Brad. And let's not forget -Brad Pitt: &quot;All the ways you wish you could -VO: &quot;Couldn't have said it better ourselves. of his craft.&quot; -Brad Pitt: &quot;We can't begin this way.&quot; -VO: &quot;Oh, but we can, Brad. It's not just of Hollywood legends. -Brad Pitt: Jesus Christ... From Tyler Durden to Aldo Raine. From &quot;Cool from being a big-time movie star to a weather Cruise? How can one snatch Leo DiCaprio's China and when did the Coen Bros decide to we're about to dive headfirst into the world Back in the Yuletide season of '63, specifically Oklahoma, one William Bradley Pitt made his was a closed event, though, strictly VIP with to the birth suite of young parents Jane and but not on the same street as the Flanders; make a joke about cartels and drug trafficking bar too high. In this corner of the world, dream. Papa Douglas helmed a trucking company, school board, and also managed to produce Let's hit the fast-forward button. Young Bradley academics, rules the roost in the debate club, sweet tunes in the music hall. But it's the heart, where he uncovers his passion for playacting. joint and keeps it flush with greenbacks. The kid moves on and signs up for the journalism studying advertising. But let's be real, it's his fancy is the student theater scene. With out just two credits short of graduating. to the design faculty in Pasadena, but the Like any newbie star, Pitt's willing to get By the crack of dawn, he's revving up a truck, falls, he's suited up in a limo, playing chauffeur first acting gig, well, let's just say it's strutting around in a funky chicken suit, El Pollo Loco? Not exactly the stuff that But, hey, a guy's got to keep a roof over Pitt found his true break courtesy of a pal scene partner. Maybe, that ex-pal was kicking agent's eye. And so, after half a year suffering costumes, the lad inked his first acting contract (Brad s Interview) Once, Brad bombed an audition, and his agent consider, you know, acting lessons. A top-notch that our man had been toiling away in Roy half year already. Brad, starts his Hollywood journey in the more like a &quot;Where's Waldo?&quot; challenge! Next, he had his moment in the sun in the gives a hoot Just kidding, here it is. Now, fast forward to &quot;Dallas&quot;, where Brad lover. Four episodes, one steamy scene, and Around the same time, a spicy legend pops Tyson? Mike Tyson, the one and only! Tyson We can only guess Brad s early days in Hollywood were nothing to casting directors? The hair! They went of two-bit roles in B-movies and TV soaps. (Brad s Interview) So, imagine, Brad Pitt wrote a book called mess, two flicks sorta stand out, but mainly First, we got Pitt's big leading role debut. hundred other wannabes. The thing that got Yugoslavia for two months for a paycheck of who can't stand the sun 'cause of some skin sunscreen. The best thing to happen to &quot;The in the Yugoslavian war. They found the film got a taste of Pitt's drama debut. Then there's this other flick &quot;Too Young to It's about some jailbird chick telling her of a junkie. And, boy, Juliette Lewis - just show. Despite having a relationship on-screen decided to give it a go in real life. Their cold sweat. But in the 90s, the journalists story was scripted alongside their skyrocketing So, Lewis scores a ticket to Scorsese's &quot;Cape &quot;Thelma &amp; Louise . Geena Davis, sweet talker him as this J.D. guy. Yeah, he's playing a but hey, this is big-time cinema. We're talking Same year, Pitt thinks he'll double down on &quot;Johnny Suede&quot;. And man, it bombs. His character can't carry a tune. The up looking like a garage sale Picasso. But and a &quot;Who's that guy?&quot; moment with Samuel on the road with more leading roles in offbeat &quot;Cool World&quot;? That's best told by the ringmaster (Ralph Bakshi interview) So, Kim Basinger, tag-teaming with producers, &quot;Who Framed Roger Rabbit . The original script 'creative improvements' by the studio resulted The film was a box office Titanic, and, unfortunately, '92 would've been engraved in Pitt's mind Robert Redford baiting him with a fishing the idea of bringing &quot;A River Runs Through just didn't see any financial appeal in these Heck, even Maclean himself gave Redford the But Redford managed to slap the beauty of the big one - a real dramatic role. Now that's (featurette interview) So Brad, finally, nailed it. Under the watchful of Paul was impressive step forward at the even spit out a serious line, but in 'A River dramatically taken by his character. Fast-forward and Brad? He's not just a pretty haircut and boy. Roll the next reel. We got him paired up again million studio thriller &quot;Kalifornia&quot;. Here's because she dazzled him in &quot;Too Young to Die&quot;, He picked Pitt based on his performance in and Juliette were a couple and former co-stars In this flick, Brad morphs into the embodiment His get-up is a bit like a throwback to their more muscle into it. Literally, because he fake teeth and messed up his own. His transformation, had in mind - he was thinking more Martin grin won the audience over, and despite the the reviews and the box-office. The cherry tarnished by his off-screen breakup with Juliette. dedication took a toll on their romance. Next up, Brad lands this gig that s more of remembers him for. Tony Scott choose him to a film we gabbed about when we covered the dreamt up Floyd based on all the dudes he Now, it s supposed to be a gag character, this whole new dude that Quentin absolutely his own outfit and even finds this Rasta cap Floyd s new fashion statement. And then there's that one scene - the one Initially, editors add Soundgarden's &quot;Outshined&quot; with the test audience. So Scott has to empty Now, Brad's career is skyrocketing, though past trying to trip him up. Like in '94, when is all about erotic fantasies drops into the the screen. But hold on, don t go thinking Brad went off in '88, but it got stuck in limbo for six And while all that's happening, Brad s off So he's cast in &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot;, book and wants to play Louis. But then the - Tom Cruise s character. Yeah, I know why a step stool to give you a slap for this joke? Cruise, young Kirsten Dunst were hanging upside would rush to their faces and makeup artists hey, all in a day's work, right? Who doesn't looks like a ripe tomato! And the movie's that's a real Hollywood magic! Next, our heroic crew packed up and shipped same dusty old studio lots where all Bond in this studio cavern that hadn't seen a facelift Not a window in sight and a winter chill that'd clocked out, he was lost in a city colder, One day, David Geffen, Mr. Big Shot producer asks him how much it'd cost to leave the project was the kind of number that would even give London didn't seem so bad; it's almost like their right mind would turn down the chance The real kicker, though, was this super awkward Dunst, just a preteen at the time, was about convention. Brad felt the same level of cringe. At the end of it all, their blood, sweat, with the Vampire&quot; didn't just succeed, it movies. It would've stayed on top too, if of moody teens into a bloodsucker-loving frenzy. for tech, cinematography, and music. Plus, book's author, to eat her words. She was bad-mouthing off, but post-premiere, she was fawning over Despite all the glory, Pitt's misery marathon Fall&quot;, dealing with the Canadian hills' mud Most Depressing Place&quot; award. Although in tale, most of the time, it was raining on He s working with Sir Anthony Hopkins, and Performance. Now, for any sane actor, this Pitt s not feeling it. He s as downbeat as and Lestat, are meant to be all deep and introspective, But it s not just the mood that s getting doll of Pitt and they're giving it a hard gets clocked right in the face. The very next which in the film comes before the fight scene. suddenly looks like as if Mike Tyson had finally Brad continued his streak of on-set accidents chase scene in Se7en,&quot; his hand had an intimate Sliced nerve and the bone almost making a of action. So, the director, possibly inspired incorporating Brad's bandaged hand into the of order, so Brad's playing hide and seek around like a purple boxing glove in another. on his face than his fingers. But let's take David Fincher, still nursing battle scars kicked off set three times, was not allowed the end, was denied the right to the final support of Sigourney Weaver and one of the have been his last in Hollywood. But lo and ring with full creative control and a script and two detectives hot on his trail. Pitt was in, the moment he read the script. - cover your ears if you're still a &quot;Se7en&quot; gets to go full Dirty Harry on John Doe and revealed. This isn't just a verbal pinky promise; call, Brad, because after the test screenings, pushing for Mills to don a hero's cape and guest appearance. If you were hoping for something bubble. The sculptors made a Gwyneth Paltrow not-so-subtle reveal. Fast forward a decade its way into another film - talk about re-gifting! So, let's gab about the cast. Our dynamic your typical good cop-bad cop act. No siree, Nope, they flip the script right from the theater piece, spouting off two pages of the Hidden in the nitty-gritty. Look at their a dark wardrobe. Freeman said his hat cranked stands out next to Mills' garish ties. home how green his character was. So, he scoured ties. This basketball hoop prints, baggy shirts, Mills doesn t give a damn about what others in books and booze. Remember that glass he yet subtle moment of the scene. Even as these going anywhere, just like the swelling in By the way, Brad and Morgan convinced the despite his fee could finance some standalone at the American box office for four whole film of the year. Brad, meanwhile, was banking even after diving into the sinister, gut-churning Man of 95. Let's backpedal a bit to the start of &quot;Seven,&quot; couldn t stand the tired old tropes where the bad guy. So, with Fincher, he plotted lost, scared and always on the lookout for pure Fincher magic. The camera's practically along with them. And those close-ups, so detailed vibes. And let's spare a moment for our lady of the the only sunshine in the grim world of &quot;Seven.&quot; during his recent shoots, it's no wonder that Gwyneth claimed it was love at first sight. wanted couple of Los-Angeles paparazzis. Also, in '95, the movie &quot;Twelve Monkeys&quot; was wave of popularity. However, as the film was so the eagle-eyed marketers sniffed out the right next to Bruce 'Yippee-Ki-Yay' Willis But wait a sec, I m getting ahead of myself Picture a future where most of humanity has Pitt s character supposedly unleashed. Willis's one minute, then pretending he's Doctor Who Gilliam, playing with our perception of reality When Pitt first skimmed through the script, responded that he s too young. Instead, he character who would forever change perception drops the silent brooder act and goes full actually biting satire on society and its to some funky lenses, a jitterbug set of movements, button stuck. This was 95, and just this scene audience feel like they d dropped into the Before shooting, Pitt goes all in. He meets on the illness, and even booked himself into so much they wanted to extend his stay! Against on a sugar rush. And the audience? They were ogling shirtless for years had this kind of nearly nabbed an Oscar but was edged out by Spacey. The next two years, Brad probably wants to this young hotshot prosecutor in &quot;Sleepers&quot;, De Niro, and Hoffman. He managed the role past few years, it seemed like a step backward. into this was because of the career-high paycheck Moving on, he's in a wrestling match with to run his birthday suit photos without permission. had already made their way onto the internet. Paltrow, decide to break-up. You'd think his to reboot, but nope, it felt more like a red Here's the setup: Brad's character is from act. He s sent to US to lay low and then to Brad hits Northern Ireland to work on his more than he could chew, 'cause one night them and gave him a taste of that famous Irish hit the screens, people kinda dug his efforts, movie itself. Let me paint you a picture: solid cast, fat rolling, everyone had this creeping suspicion the Hindenburg. What was meant to be a breezy half-a-year-long ordeal. They were changing at one point, they even scrapped the whole the producer, sensing Pitt's discontent, gave it that, due to Harrison Ford's alleged top-notch to reshoots just a month before the premiere. out. The film tanked hard and so, Brad added Shame. Although that's not the worst part, because out medals for the worst accent and Brad stood Sean Connery. This was all thanks to his gig Harrer. Harrer's a guy who climbed mountains, Lama, and fought for Tibet. The amazing landscapes mountains, where Brad spent over seven months. Annaud shipped real yaks halfway across the in occupied Tibet. More than twenty minutes was only revealed a few years after the movie The cherry on the top was that Brad's got the end of the saga! Just before the premiere, a part of the SS. Yep, our mountain-climbing, to his wedding. But hey, no proof of war crimes, to the promo tour, and people are asking Brad what I think China should do about Tibet? on make-up&quot;.&quot;. Who knew Brad was such a philosopher? Next, we got &quot;Meet Joe Black&quot;, where Brad he botched his role. I mean, who knew playing too distant, too surface-level, like he was in deep. The critics weren't totally put off, pace. The audience agreed, giving the movie came from the stars not from Hopkins and Pitt, Black&quot; had the honor of advertising Episode fell in love with little Anakin and immediately But then, Cupid's arrow strikes when Brad's date with Jennifer Aniston. Tabloids went the knot, Brad does a fun stint on &quot;Friends&quot; we ll talk about it later. Meanwhile Brad bounces back in David Fincher's an epic speech about wanting to make films just like that, Brad steps into the shoes Hold up, just a hot minute here! Before we let's take a moment to remember the numero about Fight Club!' If by some cosmic misfortune silver-screen delight, stop everything and about the plot, but with the premiere a mind-boggling prepare for spoiler overload. Plus, Rosie major secret on live TV during the film's so let's get started. Brad Pitt, our leading heartthrob, played Carter and sweet-talking her into giving it captivating, and her shenanigans with Pitt funky improv, like boogieing in front of the the cake. For the saucy love scene, they borrowed a the high-tech mo-cap suits, placing cameras You get the picture. Then, they spent a week Fast forward to the scene with a buck-naked fall. At the Venice premiere Fincher was sweating was in the crowd. But momma was all giggles Fun fact: those rubber gloves? Pitt s idea. axed. Because on paper, it looked more offensive test audience laughed hard, so the studio harshness. The one thing they couldn't stomach Producers begged for a substitution or at from heart-attack. Fincher agreed, but only studio took the bait...and ended up realizing However, as much as the audience may be embarrassed the main event was the bromance between Pitt set was the projection booth scene. What a But, hey, let's dive into his scenes in a pops up for blink-and-you'll-miss-it moments TV. But the plane encounter and the bar chitchat? in the bar scene? All thanks to Brad's improv and decided to toss them into the script, from &quot;Twelve Monkeys. The first on-screen fight was as real as it have it. So what we got on film was a genuine, movie magic. The Durden house was built from scratch on of the port, a nice secluded spot for our For instance, in that scene, they're actually off-camera. Sounds more like a party than Now, remember that famous soap scene? Tyler's but Fincher has to do a reshoot because the bomb-making 101 with the world. And thank animal fat. Still gross, but less disturbing. went to soap-making class. You'd never guess the ring after learning boxing, wrestling, They even analyze dozens of real fights. In decides that s how Tyler's gonna win one. Then there's this bit where Lou, the bar owner, The sneaky part? Norton, the narrator, reacts for days of rehearsal to get that bit right. During editing, he uses the split-screen, presto, perfect harmony. And when Brad sprays just has to swallow it, literally. It's mixed takes, they clean the guy up, change his clothes, over again. Fincher s fun only ends after he d never chased that Hollywood dream. And it is a best part of his act in the movie. Now, the whole film is like a subtle comedy hilarious because of the previous scenes, out of his hands and is sprayed with a hose takes flight. Now that's a proper Fight Club And one of my favorite BTS stories is about any damage, points out that Norton was sitting of the driver's side. Fincher just smiles And let's not forget Tyler's fashion parade. It got so popular that world-famous designers were frilly shirts, leather jackets, and a s outfit the &quot;schizo rock star&quot; look. Later, Pitt's improvisation. He goofed off like that Just like his world worst nunchaku act in So, they wrapped up shooting this madhouse was to go big with the premiere in spring the nation in April - the Columbine&quot;, one history. The studio decided to push the pause blast the world. Suddenly, the whole black People took the movie's ideas and its philosophical even accused of having fascist views. They the world wasn't quite ready for it yet. For crazy to think it barely grossed a hundred ceremonies. But hey, they did keep the first about Fight Club. Fast forward a bit and the tide began to turn. throwing out a &quot;Great movie, sir&quot;. Durden and DVD sales shot through the roof, proving truly pulled off a performance that stands wraps on one cult classic and immediately Pitt had a major fanboy moment over &quot;Lock, heard that Guy Ritchie was stirring up another to be a part of it. Now, imagine being a rookie big shot - a bloody Oscar nominee no less. be told, they hadn't quite worked out a role the character of Micky a gypsy boxer Pitt wrapped on Fight Club, playing another fisticuffs-loving having a proper nightmare trying to nail Mickey's about not getting a single word out of the moment. So, next day, he rolls up on set, by those who had memorized the bloody script. quick wit without subtitles. And the cherry for the most gobsmacked dialogues in Pitt's credits. Ritchie was upset that in Pitt's first scene a piece of toilet paper would've added some Now, the first punch that smacks into Mickey By the way, Pitt's going all in, doing his go at them later. But Brad s falls were so got no screen time. Brad's talent truly shines during a field laughter, his tussle with a dog - that's comedy Mickey's next scene. And it's interesting has almost become a clich?. When it came to go and actually got drunk. Come the finale, like a pro - probably the only actor who got Unlike Fight Club , Snatch&quot; smashed it at Brad again. His comedic talent stayed on the This time, it was Gore Verbinski, a guy about captain tale. In '01 though, Verbinski was for the dust-filled Mexican deserts. He brought schmuck forced to work for some baddies, and killer who also happened to be a hopeless the eyes is the heavyweight cast too damn Roberts could pack the theaters with their Gandolfini into the mix and anyone would think shake off this expectation and &quot;The Mexican&quot; office and in reviews. That same year, Brad passed the leading role another spy thriller with a not so subtle put Brad back with Tony Scott and Robert Redford. game was as tight as his abs, and in Redford's, - the guy's got range, what can I say? Next up, Brad's world tour Germany, Hungary, and participates in the most epic dialogue he heard they were filming a simple dialogue to light a candle. But after seeing the end gentleman. The big shots at the studio also for it from his pocket. Then, there's this house. Excessive? Maybe. But Tony Scott got royals ain't cool? Originally, Morocco wasn't even on the menu. Scott had his eyes and Haifa. Just as the sets were up, the Israel-Palestine went to war on opposite sides of the barricades, newly constructed sets. With Brad scheduled no time to waste. Like a miracle, they found lost sets, and kept the cameras rolling. Casablanca desert stepped in for Vietnam. Camels made the edge of the frame. But lets talk about bad timing? 'Spy Game' after 9/11. I mean, the U.S. is already dealing with gut-wrenching themes, no matter how how time for disappointment. With only a week to join the &quot;Ocean's Eleven&quot; gang. Imagine this, you're looking at a remake of had more lives than a cat, first being a radio mission? To pull of the greatest Las Vegas the Mirage, and the MGM Grand. The redo idea it only got rolling into the 21st century. pulls some strings and voila! The owner of which no film crew ever had right to film. vaults, even the security rooms. They even the rich and famous to slum it through the In walks our golden boy, Steven Soderbergh, most-wanted behind the lens. And with George director got a star-studded ensemble that the charts. (Don Cheadle Joke) Now, to join the club, every cast member took up for the missing zeroes on his paycheck in every scene he can. You see, the guy is not have Rusty do the same? It's like Pitt's regret their brainwaves. In one scene, Rusty and Pitt had to chomp down a royal shrimp fact. In the last act, Pitt shows up wearing Myers used for &quot;Austin Powers&quot; rehearsals. At the movie s first act, Rusty tells Danny any drunk babble. Our man Soderbergh wrote detailing every single one of the gang's cheeky big shot, Ivan Boesky, nabbed for insider the security room. &quot;Jim Brown&quot;, the well-known where Linus steals the vault passwords. Miss - a no-brainer there. And &quot;two Jethros&quot;? That's troublemaking Malloy brothers. And the toughest the security system breach - a callback to glass with her voice. Here's a juicy bit for you guys who dig boxing. fought in real life. They were just cameo with Vitali a couple years later. Back to magic. The dude's working on another level a truckload of action in a single shot or moves instead of typical film cuts. We're this many locations, characters, and events? wizardry, especially considering they shot not a masterpiece, but funny enough to pack a bunch of sequels. Talk about hitting the Brad had his plate full back in 2001. He was in &quot;Spy Games , heisting from mini-bars in of Friends , which I mentioned earlier. And along with their buddy Brad Grey founded Plan for projects they dug, but who knew they'd And talk about being in good company, their honcho of Paramount Pictures in a couple of you know, it's who you know. And evidently, Now 2002, here's where it gets fun. Brad decides . Then he pops up in George Clooney's directorial Him and Damon play these two schmucks on a picks some Joe Schmo over them. But let s great storyboard artist who loved the joke Fast forward to 2003, Brad's got his vocal the history of the good ol' USA in a documentary with an accent so thick, you'd think he's journey didn't stop there. He jumped aboard Seven Seas but, that ship hit an iceberg - a sink. After one more fiasco after &quot;Road to and the new owners stick to computer animation boy Brad. He had another blockbuster year Okay, picture this: it's 2002, and David Benioff is before he's conquered TV. He pitches Warner 'cause they've got this director Wolfgang to make money at the box office. Everything's top-tier actors, some pretty locations in Because of the upcoming Iraq War, Al-Qaeda suited for guys from Hollywood. So they head Now, it's a wrap, almost, with just the Achilles playing Achilles, trips up - and get this And if that wasn't enough, two days later, on the set. Takes 'em three months to rebuild. Despite all this, Brad Pitt's gone full-on even Zeus jealous, all before he's hit the all that impressed with Pitt's sword and spear smack during the duel will cost the smacker a hundred for a whack. End of the day, Brad's Despite all the drama, &quot;Troy&quot; rakes in half fresh-out-the-oven Plan B studio, and fattens and our lead hero aren't feeling the love. ain't crazy about his own performance or how kind of guy, but he knows every gig can't side, that same year he reprises a role that, for his stomach. Alright, so check this out: There's a sequel didn't make anyone wanna hurl. So, our guy, a script for a whole different movie. He nudges &quot;Ocean's Eleven Part 2&quot;. Now, Steven, not the star gang on a Euro-trip, cranking up In the early script, Tess is more a knockoff clone - so that's why this Faberg? egg is got Brad - prancing around in an endless carnival he could rock without being laughed outta And, c'mon, who could forget the steamy scenes much chemistry, it could power a small city. that Jennifer Aniston probably wants to set After &quot;The Bourne Identity&quot; smashed it at set to be stuck in the action-flick pigeonhole. that started life as a riff on a TV series Originally, it was a toss-up between Johnny Zeta-Jones for the lead roles. But, the project Jolie came on board. After the jaw-dropping success of &quot;The Bourne develop a new project&quot;, but immediately caught Action comedy &quot;Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith&quot;, based on Nicole Kidman in its crosshairs. Later, Will too, but the greenlight finally flickered First day on the job for Brad and Angie? A never met before, so they nailed that frosty Next up on the shooting docket was a night tiny documentary here, you'd notice that I of the camera. On set, he was shy, like a that helped him shake the jitters? The bottle Now, Liman had no grand plans for a comedy. Angie? They sprinkled in just the right amount About the home tension, it wasn't just acting. designed for a shootout. Places that would with explosives. So, Brad and Angie were chatting any moment. An hour into the flick, they do once more. This episode was a result of lengthy Mr. Smith flashing a grin at the camera? Signature this fourth-wall break? Some tight editing famous domestic violence scene in Hollywood finale with chases and shootouts. And while you might think the result was fan Jolie and Pitt's careers, the real bombshell Aniston, Brad, and Angelina, let's not dive lives and stick to the facts. In 2005, Aniston later, the public got wind of his romance Alright folks, we've covered all this Brangelina on the moviemaking stuff. Back in '06, Brad You remember &quot;The Departed&quot;, right? Well, charming investors and brokering deals at in this remake of the Hong Kong masterpiece, he felt he was hitting a bit of an, ahem, could only be described as a Hollywood relay And guess what? This move snagged Plan B its power producer. Now, for Brad's next venture, he tackled Alejandro Out of respect for the man in the director's on board. The movie weaves together four seemingly make life suck. Brad's role? Straight-up Shakespearean for the first time in ten years, but at the Murphy. So what's Pitt do next? Flexes his third heist adventure. But let's shoot the breeze about that. After sharing screen-time with the Godfather himself, Rusty's new diet: all drink, no grub. And for Stella Artois. You gotta wonder what Heineken over a mil for Brad to spend a day shooting &quot;Ocean's Thirteen&quot; tied up the trilogy in box office. And Pitt? He's off again, gunning Alright, so back in 2004, Plan B and Warner Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward character deep-dive, wanted to go full outlaw, of the Wild West's most infamous gangs. I Robin Hood, right? But, get this, the film itself was more two-faced this Jesse role was the best he's ever done, even said the night train robbery scene was major love from top-tier critics, who called side, it made a measly three million at the to make. My theory? Warner Bros was hoping three-hour period drama they ended up with. Fast forward to the following year, and Brad Wes Anderson. Next, he jumps into the absurd the thing, when Ethan and Joel cook up a character said character is more Goofy than a Mickey. Tyler Durden and Achilles into fitness guru make Pitt look bad - hell, they even called of stupidity . Making Brad look like fool even make the goofiest get-ups look sharp, a custom outfit, while Clooney, for comparison, jeans. The Coen's parade of fools and awkward bucks, nabbing a Golden Globe nom, and catapulting collaborations. His next pitstop? Act three we're served up the trippy &quot;Curious Case of This isn't your usual Hollywood gig - it's the scriptwriters went freestyle and kept in reverse. That's about it. The idea s been kicking around since the 80's, like Frank Oz, Steven Spielberg, and Ron Howard. Brad enduring five-hour daily makeup sessions, Pitt into an old toddler - seriously, think transformation won makeup artist Greg Cannom a group of Hollywood A-listers. The first part of the film gives us a full Oscar, too. With the help of three body doubles, ever seen. But even with all the Oscar-winning steals the show. The Academy agreed, throwing And remember that group of Hollywood A-listers, golden mine of acting. Jason Flemyng, Tilda Henson and Cate Blanchett. Blanchett, by the aging for half a day to play a large part be easier to act exhausted when you're buried light to make the sun jealous. But hey, all end. Fincher managed to create a nearly art-house And the fact that &quot;Benjamin Button&quot; even broke nerds, proving studios aren't totally afraid As for the message of the movie, everyone the main metaphor is the final flood during at you, but what matters is how you handle by lightning seven times and still live to Oh, and did I mention this was only the second And that Brad donated five million dollars Seems like rubbing elbows with all those hotshot guy needed Quentin Tarantino, the ultra-violence into the boots of Lieutenant Aldo Raine. Although wine to seal the deal. (Spoiler alert: Pitt to pop a cork or five in France. Can't blame Now, you're probably asking, why the initial Our boy Brad still remembered the '90s, when Paltrow, Brad's lady-love at the time. Pitt and avoided the Weinsteins like the plague Now let's jump back to the cinema stuff, 'cause folks. We ve spilt enough ink about Quentin, script suggests that Aldo's scar came from which I want to see! At the premiere, Aldo to the OG director of &quot;Inglourious Basterds&quot; Also, fun fact: Tarantino once quipped that be from the same family tree. Talk about a wanna drown in a trivia sea, just check our In 2010, Brad gets another call from DreamWorks. in the dust, but they bounced back with their Stiller, and Jonah Hill, Brad rocked Metro They made Pitt a mashup of Superman and Elvis screen for the first time since Johnny Suede. of &quot;Megamind&quot; didn't just make a pretty penny their hats for its superhero mockery and compelling Meanwhile, Pitt was also flexing his producer &quot;The Time Traveler's Wife,&quot; &quot;Kick-Ass,&quot; &quot;Eat, leading man. Funny thing is, both movies were kinda fell into Terrence Malick's &quot;Tree of And folks, keep your soda handy, we're going Terrence Malick, man, is like the Bob Ross everybody else - paints, brushes, camera, little accidents that are totally different. the wind or something, just pure magic. Now, Joe might look at it and go &quot;pretty, but what's Other directors whose minds he's blown and on his masterpiece. So, when Brad Pitt's production company, Plan venture, Brad was all over it. He was pulling the troops that Malick wanted on board. The tragic death of Heath Ledger. On set, Brad turned into a 1950s drill sergeant &quot;The Tree of Life&quot; is essentially Malick's neighborhood, flipping it back a few decades. script. So what happens when he spots a butterfly and makes the camera operator and Jessica for a solid half-hour until he gets the shot than 400 hours of footage for a film that ratio of nearly 200 to 1! Now, compare that 1. But hey, when you're going for that natural the legendary Emmanuel Lubezki behind the More than Lubezki's camera work, though, was of the universe. It's hard to believe, but Instead, they used actual chemical processes, Trumbull. It's like a cosmic, cinematic Monet does computer wizardry come into play. &quot;Tree of Life&quot; had Cannes standing ovation bank at the box office. As for the audience to post &quot;no refunds&quot; signs. Can't say folks Moving on to the second flick that snagged This ain't your grandpa's sports movie - it's annals of baseball, honing in on an exceptional out there inventing some crazy algorithm, Operating on a tight budget, they pulled a heavy lifting, picking up the underrated hot Michael Lewis was so stoked about this game-changing Columbia Pictures immediately snatched up This project was a roundabout of directors. who'd stumbled upon this little gem right He came real close to taking the reins, but buying his idea of creating a satirical mockumentary. the Capote&quot; movie, was next in line. The man snags the formidable Philip Seymour Hoffman, giving him a major role. This gig earns Hill of Peter Brand. Meanwhile, Brad's owning the - both as the man pulling the strings and But what's the secret sauce in this sports off, it's got that classic underdog story boxing gloves and the mumbling. That underdog Chaplin ruled the world of comedy, and it's - a bunch of faces you wouldn't expect in off as this odd-couple comedy act. Throw in and you're cooking with gas. Visually, the film's a home run too - wide contrasting with the intense close-ups of fans might find a few foul balls in the story's The real indication of success? The film scoring with baseball as Americans are with the metric And let's not forget, in 2011, Brad picks instead of suiting up as a post-apocalyptic shrimp in &quot;Happy Feet 2 . Then in 2012, he's front and center in the rights. Under the sage direction of Rob Reiner, the suits in Cali didn't want live on TV. pot, saying they won't be saying &quot;I do&quot; until Next stop, 2013: Pitt's sharing screen time have a lock on playing hired guns whenever seen all sides of Pitt s career: his first days, and now, the big shot producer era. Them Softly,&quot; a loose adaptation of &quot;Cogan's happened to shot the Jesse James movie. The into high art and violence into some sort it tanks at the box office. Pitt s got his hit. But don't feel too bad for Brad, cause later spotlight as a producer for &quot;12 Years a Slave,&quot; its intensity and won Best Picture. However, Critics raised eyebrows over his picking himself But Pitt hit back, saying he didn t handpick was a key part of getting the project funded. is Brad Pitt s face, you know you ve done But something right isn t the words to describe Scott says he's gonna bring a novel by the you'd think we're in for a treat, right? Well, is a masterclass in muffing the play. Adorned pretty postcard-worthy views, the movie turned 3 a.m.. Except for, you know, a few mind-boggling of &quot;bolito&quot; strangulation. Now, that s a party But Pitt s main project of 2013 was a blockbuster of the world, zombie-style, ripped from the - Pitt and DiCaprio were arm wrestling over way back in 2007. Pitt comes out swinging, the battle wasn't over, they went toe-to-toe and in this rematch, it was Leo s victory. Our boy Pitt had this vision, right? Straight-up, around post-zombie earth, chatting it up with in their infinite wisdom, decided to shake for the title and the undead idea. They took tossed in some epic zombie WWE, and, poof! mega-horde. Pitt, wearing his producer hat, had his fingers the captain of the ship, Marc Forster, who of Solace&quot;. Then he brought cinematography off this grand European tour, right? Now, Philly, it's Glasgow, Scotland! Can you believe down the city center for a fortnight and roped over the street. The next stop on their world itself. They dressed it up as a Jerusalem the tech wizards got to strut their stuff, they'd send the Walking Dead guys running bulldozing through everything that so much Hungary do its best Russia impression. During the Russia gig, the plan was for Pitt the zombie horde on a frosty Red Square. But turning into an 80s B-movie, so they threw ending. All this dilly-dallying led to Richardson his wagon to Django Unchained instead, and He wasn't too pleased with the studio's push way, left most of the gory scenes on the cutting cautious when the budget ballooned to a whopping a billion, was the golden goose of Pitt's gave it a thumbs up. He was just stoked to to his novel as a 'Moby Dick' is to 'Finding Okay, so here is Brad Pitt, almost a half-century most famous faces. It's like he woke up one 'em! Time to go for the most brutal road trip for a stint in David Ayer's latest, a hard-hitting the tank crew; Pitt's the staff sergeant, the loader, Michael Pe?a's the mechanic-driver, And it's no mistake to mention the real names, a legit, rough-and-ready combat unit. First stop on the reality train? Conversation crew their wartime experiences. Next, a learn the ins and outs of tank driving and Ayer's stroke of genius: Fistfights. Nothing The fights worked like a charm, beating the got rolling, Ayer packed 'em off to a mock high life if by high life you mean pre-dawn under the rain-soaked sky. Once the shooting kicked off, their exhaustion reduce it for camera! Ayer's love for realism All real military men or vets? Double-check. exhibit? You bet. A fully constructed military camera crew think they were shooting a documentary They even recreated a tank battle from archival liberty on an ambush scene. The real head-scratcher for many was the heroic to be true. But here's the twist it was actually difference. The real-life hero, Lieutenant to tell the tale, scored a Medal of Honor, in a movie version of his own war story. Talk And how can we forget about tanks, tanks, 'Best Supporting Mechanical Role', &quot;Fury&quot; trivia for ya: &quot;Fury&quot; is the second-ever movie its production. And no ordinary Tiger, but Yet, the real steel show-stealer was the Sherman it out in field conditions for a quarter of internal scenes, but one became a literal The ensemble didn't just play their parts, the wheel, sidelining the stunt drivers. And fight? Shia LaBeouf almost went a few rounds spitting on the tank. Brad, playing peacemaker, knew Eastwood was just following the script? the village where Brad Pitt shows off his in his German heritage and loved Germany so the shoots. All the sweat and the dirt didn't go unnoticed the box office and parked itself on pretty A well-deserved happy ending for our tank-loving 2014 was Brad's chill pill year. His work commercial and swapping vows with Angie. Their back to business filming together for the Their romantic-drama &quot;By the Sea&quot; was Angie's for its picturesque shots, but more like the Fast forward a year, and we've got the biggest Brad, Angie, and their six kiddos in a world But before Brad's personal life became the another Oscar-hungry dish.. house Plan B, alongside Paramount, was scouring They found their golden goose in &quot;The Big crisis that not only predicted the collapse McKay, the goofball genius behind &quot;Anchorman&quot; of financial doom and gloom into a side-splitting juggling a severe social drama and humorous the scenes. But when he stepped in front of the camera, playing another eccentric banker, he was the wild mix of drama, humor, and zany celebrity a painfully real depiction of events. Seeing the box office was just the icing on the cake. Also, in 2015, Pitt embarked to another movie and came back with 'The Operators,' a journalistic Stanley McChrystal's action-packed stint in character of &quot;War Machine&quot; as a riff on the This was an unusual gig for Brad with funny portrayal was so exaggerated, you could have if the punchline wasn't so heartbreakingly it was a political satire that even managed folks at the White House. The audience, though? Not quite on board with David Michod failed to mix &quot;The Office,&quot; and drink. &quot;War Machine&quot; finding a home on Netflix houses, saving them from the ghost town vibe. of New York Times political column readers. Then, Brad took on two more gigs with cult Freeman's shoes, providing the voice-over of Time&quot;. Not long after, he shook hands with Robert of &quot;Allied&quot;. This film was the brainchild the idea to Pitt during his &quot;World War Z&quot; been nurturing this baby for years. He'd heard wife turned out to be a German spy. It was evidence. Still, it was such a juicy story, And Brad, all pumped up, pushed Knight to eye, and he ropes in Marion Cotillard onboard. light. So, they start to shoot this Mr. And Mrs. front of the blue screen. It s kinda Zemeckis graphics whiz kid, right? Always up for a in this case, in my humble opinion, it was Maybe it was the lack of natural light on dresses, but the atmosphere felt a tad off. Cotillard to use, and gave us another great filming wrapped, Brad took a well-deserved divorce saga. Cut to 2018, and Pitt steps in the superhero in &quot;Deadpool 2 . His agreement to the cameo a former stunt double who'd worked with Pitt stuck with him till Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith . Then, just when you thought Hollywood couldn't in &quot;The Jim Jefferies Show&quot;. But this ain't guy. This weatherman's hiding a hurricane What's the punchline of this dark humor? It crisis look this good on cable TV. Fast-forward to the next year, and lo and gold nugget. And it's not just any nugget, beat a dead horse here, as I already gabbed in Hollywood&quot; in the third part of Quentin's So, after marching through theaters worldwide season, QT takes a detour and steps into the gift us? A decoder ring for the pop culture like a hipster at an art-house cinema, a new from the flick. So, if you're struggling to happened to his missus, or how many Japanese War, then get your nose into that novel, pronto. As for our boy Brad, he finally snags his the acting playground. His silent but deadly movie bigwigs, and Brad, being the classy heroes, the stuntmen. For real, the Academy nom as a stoner is for... well, anything. While we were all busy admiring Brad's Booth was a less shiny, but equally valuable gem Brad and James Gray were kinda like those for years, but life got in the way. First, execs just shrugged it off. The project later Gosling. Brad and Gray, on the other hand, the green light blinked, but Brad had to bail still stuck around as an executive producer So, 2019 rolls in, and the cosmos finally presented &quot;Ad Astra&quot;, an interstellar voyage Now&quot; and &quot;Space Odyssey . Gray was so into miniatures and hand-drawn planet images. Oh, strings behind &quot;Ad Astra visuals was none first cosmic rodeo, as a few years back, he'd Brad, though, was the real star shining bright wasn't just through the cosmic abyss, but consciousness. 'Cause let's face it, the only universe is the human mind. And that's what let's talk about the grand finale, where our kicker, that wasn't in the script, it was the moment. Post shooting, Brad being a stickler tear behave like it would in zero gravity. s too good, buddy, . Now, that's what I call In this cosmic opera, Brad was flanked by Sutherland, and Tommy Lee Jones. Despite this pull at the box office. Slow, meditative plotlines DeGrease Tyson podcast, don't usually get So, next COVID happened, you remember, the little bow of chaos? The silver screen took Pitt only participated in a little online years. But even COVID couldn't keep him from stuntman-turned-director, David Leitch. The cast? Top-notch. Aaron Taylor-Johnson two of the quirkiest psycho killers to ever your heartstrings tugged by bloodthirsty lunatics? all enigmatic and stuff, while Joey King was movie itself! Here's the kicker though, &quot;Bullet Train&quot; rode decision' to switch up the races of the characters threw a fit: &quot;Hollywood won't cast Asians stars 'cause Hollywood won't cast them!&quot; Round though. &quot;The book doesn't know borders! The But that's a heavyweight debate for smarter movie itself. Brad totally nailed this role. The Ladybug become the next Bond. He cooked up the plotline had the crew in hysterics with his dime-a-dozen Most of his zingers? Ad-libbed. But Pitt's He was the brains behind getting a smart toilet Originally, Lady Gaga was slated to be his Gucci . So Sandra Bullock stepped in, marking while wrapping up the finale, Sandy asked As a result, Pitt gifted the best twenty minutes there? Pure gold! Like the quirky cameo Channing of cameos, let's just say the Deadpool debt Brad once again shared the screen with Logan &quot;Fury&quot; and more &quot;Weekend at Bernie's&quot;. And And let's give it up for the costume department. up like Eskimos, but as we get to know them, revealing a whole new persona. Pitt's final only just some cheeky wordplay, but a nod Whenever someone tossed off a piece of clothing, part with face-punching and ass-whooping. Jackie Chan's kung fu classics, where not and whatever junk they could grab, got in expect from a director who made his career &quot;Bullet Train&quot; had us in stitches and on the raked in a cool 200 million at the box office. of the La La Land prequel... I mean, Babylon&quot;. Back in '09, Chazelle was like a newbie chef it - a biopic about the glitz and grit of hat first. Fast forward through a decade of and a quick dance with an Oscar. Finally, after he gave Ryan Gosling a ticket to the Then we have Brad Pitt, sitting on the set he was offered a ticket to &quot;A Few More Times into the shoes of the eccentric boozer, Jack did he connect! Conrad, a silent film star the arrival of talkies . Despite Jack sounding share of epic lines. Picture this: In what his character takes a joyride through a bunch script! And in the grand tradition of Tinseltown, of heartache that could make a stone weep. Jack Conrad's rollercoaster ride was a mirror Back in the roaring '20s, Gilbert was the in the biggest bucks in town. But, as 'talkies' like a stone in a pond. Louis B. Mayer, playing man Gilbert to kick his contract to the curb. snoozefests while sound engineers were given his voice - talk about a low blow! Now, remember their butts off at one of Pitt's love scenes? treasure trove of Gilbert's life. And just life has been serving inspiration on a platter Rain&quot; using it as their muse. Indeed, Chazelle knows his way around a Hollywood weaves enchanting scenes for the viewers, fiddle. We've been bombarded with too many this movie's unique charm seemed to be its coarse, and unappealing scenes. We caught factory, is more of a nightmare factory once of supposed angels, it's the devils calling Unfortunately, audiences didn't exactly roll bled more cash than a Vegas high-roller on Academy couldn't salvage the situation. But who always finds the wave, and this time, nomination. No flop can trip him up, it seems. stuck on replay, and Brad's success in the of Hollywood. This year, he hits the big 6-0, refusing to show any signs of ageing. So, decade of being captivated by the phenomenon Brad Pitt!