Hey everyone. Welcome back to another My name is Greg. I've been selling print on demand T-shirts For just about 10 years now, and what I'm going to is condense all of the knowledge that I know about print on demand into one very easy to understand video. My intent with this video is to get all of the print on demand knowledge, the things I've learned the things that I've learned that aren't shared anywhere else online, out into a video for you guys to know. Judging by the notes that I've whether you are a beginner or you are an expert, you're to pull away valuable So guys, without further ado, let's get straight into this video. Before we get started, going to put a table of contents So all of the main chapters If you wanna jump around, All right, so without further ado, let's get straight into this video. If you do find yourself please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. Okay, so the very first is going to be active print on demand versus passive print on demand. Now, I won't take long but it is a very core concept When you are starting a you basically have two routes or two different strategies There are a couple different that are going to be very drastically different between the But let's start with active For those of you who choose to do an active print on demand business, this is going to be using like Printify, Gelato, Printful. So if you recognize any of those, you're going down the active route. And basically what active is you're creating your own website, you're bringing your own buyer, so you're running your own paid ads, you're doing your own marketing. You do have to pay for the So when you do receive an order, you have to pay for the cost of goods before that'll actually be And then the main one that a lot of people don't realize when they're getting started is you have to manage yourself as well. Now, just to give you a little if you're using a website like Printify, this is going to be your cheapest option. So your lowest cost of goods, you can make the biggest but they are going to So you may run into some you may run into some issues Just know that it might be a little bit more customer service for you to manage if you're going this route. The next big player in the active print on They're kind of medium priced here. They are still going to but it's going to be That's what's kind of unique to them. I believe they use artificial intelligence to kind of pair you with the So you're not supposed to Something else that is personalization. So if you are thinking about going the active print on demand route where you wanna set up your personalized products, Gelato's And then the last one that If you are going with and you want the highest quality products, you want the biggest catalog with a lot of customizations, Printful is going to be that one. What's cool about Printful is although they are the most expensive, they do everything in house. So you have a lot more reliability, quality control checks on your prints and less issues with running So that is the first side here. That is active print on demand. That is one way that you can Now, the other way that you can run a print on demand business is what's called passive print on demand. Now, when you do passive print on demand, you're uploading your designs to print on demand marketplaces. So you're not actually you're not actually because the marketplace is they bring their own buyers. You don't have to pay because the customer's paying the print on demand marketplace themselves when they place their order. And the big one for me is you don't have to handle any of These websites handle all So essentially with a passive you have a lot less and things like that, but to do is create the designs and Everything else is done passively for you. Now, to give you some really good examples of passive print on demand marketplaces, we'll start with TeePublic. This is going to be the You can start selling on TeePublic today. Everything's totally free to do. The next one I'll show you is Redbubble. It's actually owned by the same company. Redbubble owns TeePublic as well. Redbubble is also easy to start. They are just a bigger marketplace. They purchased TeePublic, so they were the one that And then beyond that, This is my favorite This is Amazon. What a lot of people don't print on demand T-shirts It's totally free to do. You apply with their department called Amazon Merch on Demand. The main difference here is that if you wanna sell on Amazon, you have to apply to be a seller. You have to wait to see On TeePublic and Redbubble, you can sign up for free with an email and you can start selling from anywhere in the world. Now, the last thing I is that if you want a full deep dive on how to run a passive that's the model that I really like and that's the one I've I'm going to link a YouTube It's a full step-by-step tutorial. Totally free to watch. That could probably be a full but it's free for you So if you're interested I highly recommend that video. Okay, so the next important chapter to get into here is talking No matter what business the better marketing, the the more sales you're going to get. That is the same footprint on demand. However, it's going to differ greatly depending on if you're or passive print on demand. So the quick answer active print on demand, you are definitely going and advertising yourself. However, if you are doing it is only going to be optional. I have done passive print on and yes, it does increase sales. However, it's time-consuming. So I've moved away from doing I don't pay for ads, I don't do any social and I've been relying solely that comes to these print on their own. So with that being said, over the years that I've done marketing for print on demand businesses, both active and passive, there are proven free and there are proven paid Again, this is all stuff that I've learned from trial and error. This isn't stuff that you can just find So first, let's start with the free ways that work really well for print on demand. Now, keep in mind this is something that you'll definitely have to and you can optionally do So the best free way right now is TikTok. TikTok is just experiencing and they're starting to to purchase things on their platform. This has been a strategic move that they've started and it's working extremely well. So if you can create videos and post them onto TikTok, this is going to kind of A lot of people don't because they just think but if you look up some they'll show you how to create videos for TikTok that are on camera. Or you can be off camera where you're just showing your hands opening up by shirt, something like that. But if you can try to focus that are just happening right now, you create a design on that that is probably the best way for print on demand business. The next best way to do free marketing for print on demand, in my I will say Instagram is not but you just have to post photos. So you can even use mockups for this. So you don't have to take photos yourself, you don't have to be on camera at all. And something that is building up a brand. So when someone searches if that's active print on demand, your Instagram account is going to show up in This is going to give it's going to give So as people are trying to build up, if they trust you as a company, if they wanna purchase from you, having a built up Instagram going to help you in that department. So that's that for the free marketing. Those two will be your most efficient way to spend your time if you don't have money to spend for advertising. However, if you do have a the best paid ads that I can recommend to you is using Facebook. Facebook is going to be to promote print on demand designs because Facebook is so in front of people who Facebook collects so much so they know so much about people. Some people even say that than they know about themselves. That's why Facebook is so in front of the right person Now, I will say if you are for print on demand, it and there's going to be a So you might waste a lot Especially when you're you need to figure out if So don't be alarmed if you're not turning a profit Once you start to dial that in and you do all of your to optimize that, then things are going to start to get profitable. Now, before we move on from and advertising, I wanna This is a tool called Placeit. It's actually the tool that I use to create my T-shirt designs, but they also have included you can go to Mockups and something unique 'cause you can go over to Video Mockups. And these are all video mockups that you can put your and you can post that on social media. So if you have like a yoga page or something like that, this is going to be a video of someone actually doing yoga wearing your shirt. Now, if you come over you can actually sort this. You can do like Instagram Post Template and then some of these are pretty cool. So you have like 3D mockups of the shirt or something with a cool background. Look at how cool some So some of these things you can post on Instagram to try to not be taking the photos yourself or try not to be on camera. These are all things to see if you can get any of them to hit a trend and go viral. Now, I don't wanna go too far on a tangent on how to do all of this in this video, but for those of you who it's very easy to use, I will put a 15% off discount. That's my personal code to Placeit. So if you do wanna try it out, that will be down in Okay, so that brings us which is copyrights and trademarks. This, I would say, hands down, is the most common mistake that print on demand sellers run into. When you are creating your actual design, when you are putting your title together and your description you have to make sure anything that other people own. So other people can own the rights to designs other people can own the rights to different phrases. So before you just freely use some artwork or graphic on your design or just use phrases that you you have to check them to make sure that nobody formally owns them. If you do use any of those you upload them to print or if you try to sell this works for both ways, the person or company that owns the rights to that can have your listings taken down and they even have rights to the profits that you made from them. Now, with that being said, don't let this scare you If you have a simple process in place, you can check that nobody before you're using them and it only takes a couple seconds to do. So let's quickly break down the difference between copyrights and trademarks 'cause they're actually Let's start with copyrights first. Copyrights are going to apply to the artwork that's on your design. This is going to be in that's on your design, the and even the layout of that template. Although there is currently no software that kind of checks your that nobody owns anything on them, what you can do is make sure that when you are choosing everything on that graphic So to give you an example of this, let me just come back to Placeit so I can show you how this works. If you go to Apparel and these are going to be that you can use. So if you click in on any of is copyright-free and So you can sell it and make a profit from. So this layout here is copyright free. This font over here is all copyright free. You can even go into More Fonts. All of these fonts are Nobody owns the rights to them. And then the big thing for print on demand is the graphics themselves. All of the graphics in Placeit's library, they're all copyright free. And you can even search this to go into just, let's Everything you see here is copyright free. So you can just click on these, you can put them into your design. Now, the reason that I is because you will see this same layout when you're using other but they're libraries, they're they're not all copyright free. So I really caution you your graphic design tool make sure that you're doing the research to make sure that is copyright free. So that covers the Now let's get into the So when it comes to trademarks and print on demand, this to the phrase that is on your shirt. So not the font, but the actual And then also your title and description. You have to make sure that or a sentence or a short sentence that somebody owns the rights to. This conveniently is something very quickly before you use So let me just switch and I'll show you how So this is the tool that It's called Merch Informer. I use this for a bunch of different parts of my print on demand process. However, Merch Informer has a feature where you can type in all of the phrases that you want to use. It checks them at once. So let me get logged into my account and I'll show you how to do this. Okay, so once you get just come over to the left side, go to Trademarks and And then this box, you can that you are thinking and they'll quickly tell you So let me just type in a couple examples. Okay, so I've just typed in two here. If you wanna type in more, just hit Enter. You can keep typing as and then click Save and then you'll see it drop 'em down into this list. Just go ahead and hit this big blue button that says Check trademarks. And then it'll say, Please allow a few minutes for results. But really, it happens instantly. So you can just refresh and it's going to give you or a red X. So if you were just and you used I'd rather be fishing as the phrase on your and description, you There's no issues there. But if you used fish whisperer, which is a really good phrase, somebody owns the rights to it on apparel. So if you created that design, yours would then be taken down and you get a trademark So that's how easy it You just have to have a process in place. Now, before we move on from here, I will say Merch Informer has I use a lot of them throughout Again, in order to stay I'll put more information down in the description below. All right, just like that, we're moving on into the and what that is your sales strategy. Now, this is going to active print on demand or However, no matter what you are doing, there's kind of three main The first of these strategies is creating print on demand If you can discover trends and create print on demand out there and get them public, you have the potential to get but it's only going to last Once that trend starts to fade so are your sales on that topic. Now, just to try to pull as much knowledge out of my head on this, there are a couple ways just as they're happening. The best free way I would It's going to take a little to figure out what you are looking for, but it does kind of work. The other way is a feature which will show you all of just as they are starting to happen. Again, that's going to in the description, so I won't get into any more detail on that one. Now, the next sales that works really well is Think about holidays or things This, again, is going to give but it's going to be for Once that holiday or that your sales are going to go But the good thing is So every year, your sales Now, the secret to succeeding with seasonal designs is you want to be the one and a lot of reviews. On the print on demand whoever has the most are going to get because they know that when people are going to purchase it. So if you're going to go into focus on getting your Now, that brings us into This is my favorite one of the three, and this is using evergreen topics. Now, what evergreen means for saying topics that last forever. You're looking at years' worth of time, not just weeks or months Now, I will say if you're you're going to see more consistent sales over a long period of time. You're not going to see or really high volumes of purchases. But if you want to build reliable stream of income using these evergreen I would say if I could of advice on going into the it would be to find So things that are not and then try to find what that are going to work in that niche. A lot of the overall niches like fishing, they're going to be just oversaturated. However, there are certain like arctic fishing or ice Those could be low competition sub niches within the overall topic there's a lot of interest in that other people haven't And then the other part to that is that on these there are certain phrases that that sell really well in So whether that is about arctic fishing or that's about skateboarding, you may be able to use and just customize it to that niche, upload it there before other people have, and you are going to be getting your reviews and earning on these print on demand marketplaces. So that's kind of the three that work really well for print on demand. However, like I said, when it comes to active print on demand or passive print on demand, certain ones of those So if you are doing your own store with active print on demand, trends, I would say, is I would try to focus just as they're happening and creating a couple really good designs, and then doing the marketing and advertising we talked about. For those of you who are on the print on demand and the evergreen designs, I would say that's going to Now, when it comes to you definitely wanna focus on creating a high volume of designs. Now, what I mean by that is trying to find as many of those low competition niches that other people aren't in yet, and then putting as many as you can into those niches. If you do this right, to build up a really steady and reliable source of income from these print on demand marketplaces. Now, there truly is a lot to unpack about these three different strategies. So I'm going to put a link to a full print on demand It's going to walk you using the proven phrases, all So if you want to learn more about that, a link to a YouTube video will be down in the description below. Okay, so that brings us talking about earnings or profit per sale. So how much money can you actually make? Again, if you've noticed a trend here, this is going to differ if you're using active print on demand or passive print on demand. So starting with active print on demand, if you have your own store, using Printify, using you are, on average, between five and $10 per T-shirt sale. Now, I say T-shirt sale because if you're selling or a sweatshirt, that may Those are more expensive items. They have bigger profit margins. But I wanna keep this as So five to $10 per T-shirt sale if you're doing active print on demand. If, however, you are doing you are going to make roughly one to $5 profit per T-shirt sale. Again, this will double if you're selling a more expensive item. However, for T-shirts, one to $5. Now, I know that seems You have five to $10 However, you have to remember that you have to do advertising Now, if you get really good at this, you can turn a profit but you always have to subtract out your paid advertising cost of the amount of time social media marketing or of doing marketing yourself. When you are selling on these print on demand marketplaces, your time is just going to creating more designs, So although you're going you're not doing any customer service, everything's done for you, you're just focused on Now, something else that of talking about earnings and profit is how do you handle taxes that you've made from your Now, what I'm about to tell you, I guess I have to say this is my opinion, this is how I understand it works. I'm not giving financial advice. I don't know if I need but I'm just trying to explain it how I understand how this works. You can sell print on You can sell print on demand on multiple different print all at the same time. What you do for the year is you add up in your bank accounts how from all of these websites combined, how much profit was actually Now, if you're using a passive sometimes they have it and then you have to request a payout. Well, if you haven't you haven't actually You haven't received it, so Once you request that payout and it hits your bank, now So hopefully that clarifies that. So what you do is you that you've received for the year, and then you add that to It's really that simple. You can say print on demand, Other Income, and you add up the total amount This is going to be the It's so simple. You just add on that one line, you pay tax on it, and that's that. If you wanna get more advanced with this, as your business starts to grow, you can use what's This is going to allow you to add up all of that as Other Income, but you can deduct all of So if you're buying design software, if you're buying anything whether that's a computer you can deduct all of that and try to lower the So for example, let's of print on demand, you That's how much you received. But you spent $2,000 on a computer and you spent $100 on design software. Well, you take that $10,000 and instead of paying you get to subtract the $2,000, you get to subtract the $100. So now you're only paying tax on $7,900. That is what's kind of cool Now, speaking of having your own business, to start print on demand, you do not need to form You can do all of this with your first and last name when you're signing up to all of these websites. You do not need to go and get a business bank account to start doing print on demand. All of your profit can just and you could put it in And then the last thing I'll that you only have to pay taxes in your local country or region. So let's say you live in and you make all this you pay tax to the Let's say you live in Canada. Although you could make sales in the United States of America, all the websites are paying you to Canada, so you only pay taxes to Canada. This is the same thing for You don't have to pay double taxes to multiple countries, just because you're making Another cool caveat here is that has a really good you could be selling from making sales in the United States, which makes up for a lot of the sales in print on demand overall, but the conversion of, let's say, $5 profit per sale may convert to a way higher amount So needless to say, if you live and you have a good conversion rate, this could be a really cool All right, so moving on this is a quick one, but that I think you would only And this is what products sell So in print on demand overall, you typically see T-shirts you sell, but what a is you can also sell stickers. You can also sell coffee you can sell wall art. There is a lot that you can sell, all on the same listing that you are uploading your design to. This goes both for the active and the passive print on demand websites on those marketplaces. But after testing all of these to see how much money you make, I will say that the primary earner is going to be T-shirts. So if you wanna get your best bang for your buck on creating I would recommend sticking So guys, hopefully this video of teaching you a lot of All of those tutorials, I they go into far more detail They're going to be linked I really hope you guys enjoyed this video and I really do hope that it was helpful. If you did enjoy it, again, I really do appreciate that. Otherwise, I'll be seeing you