It's a Blind Taste Test Marathon. Let's talk about that. Good Mythical Marathon. As you can see, we can, also. Because, we're not blindfolded But we are the self-proclaimed in eating foods while blindfolded 50 Blind Taste Tests over 50, huh? 50! Today, we're gonna go back and watch 6 of our favorites unblindfolded. So that we can see the videos. Yes, and if you are currently please remove it. All right, we are starting this off inside the bun. This is the Blind Fast from October 20, 2014. Today we determine which one of us is the Let's talk about that. (theme music) - Good Mythical Morning! - We do. - and we were talking the other day. We don't eat the same burger at the - Right. - Nope. But the thing that we were talking about we think we've eaten so many fast-food - We're experts. and we think that we can blindfolded. cheeseburger or a Burger King - It seems like-- --It seems-- well that would kind of well, let's put this to the test. tasting burgers. Let's find out who is the - Me. - we're playing Guess That Burger. Okay, so this is what we have devised. fast food chains: McDonald's, Burger King, depending on your neck of the woods, So, the first five rounds are worth using the Pizza Plank, - (Rhett) Burger Plank! which burger it came from, - which restaurant it came from. It's just guessing the burger, (in unison) six and seven, The crew is combining and we have to tell you where the bread is - of those two. Right, and so that's two points for each one they're combining three elements from Three points up for grabs, If you get all three right, you get one thing right, - So. And whoever gets the most points - is crowned King Burger. - And we actually have a crown. - It's on my side. - so let's get started with-- And we are just going to guess after the - each round. We will not be told whether or not we are - the end of five rounds. (yelling) Let's taste that burger! (Rhett) Round one! (eating noises) Kinda cold! Pretty confident. I've been to this place a few times! - many bit of a time. I don't know. - Why are you asking me that question? - my house. I wish I wouldn't have swallowed it (Stevie) Three, two, one. - (both laughing) - We're both right or we're both wrong! - Yeah! - Sorry. - I felt a five coming, I'm sorry. - Okay - right here. (makes clapping sound) - (Rhett) Round two! Okay. That's a big one. (chuckles) Oh yeah! - There's a lot of pickle happening. - A little. A lot of bread, - Okay. - Pretty certain about this one. - really pickle heavy, so. - burger that's pickle heavy. (Stevie) Answer in three, two, one. - Hardee's! You're kidding me. - It was all bread! - It was all bread! - (Rhett) Round three! - I'm so confused. There's a lot of burger in the mouth. You sure that was a burger? I've lost all confidence. - but I know I'm bad now. I tasted it, and I know what it is, - Okay. (Stevie) Answer in three, two, one. - Hardee's! - (laughs) - (yelling in surprise) What?! - What?! - (Rhett) Round four. (Link) Oh, a small one. Mm. My brain's just been - Oh wow. Man. I feel like an idiot. - (laughs) - Oh man! - Okay. (both) McDonald's! - That was McDonald's. (Rhett) Round 5! I haven't guessed Wendy's or In-N-Out yet. - What? There's a cucumber on this one. I know the comments are gonna be like, What is that? That is not from any place, - That's not from a place! (Stevie) Ready? Answers in three, two, one. - Hardee's! (shouting) Boom! Yeah! Pulling away! - I'm taking my blindfold off. - So, how much am I winning by? - (laughs) What?! We're horrible! The only thing - I got McDonald's right. How can you think that you're so smart about - That is the question of the hour. eaten one that cold. Two: I've never And three: I've never gone into a - Yep. - So-- So Link has two right and I have one right. We thought we were and the Frankenburgers were - (laughing) We, we, we-- We were so confident - &quot;Maan, this place, is this next to your house?&quot; - &quot;Yeah, Burger King!&quot; Why did we both think it was Burger King? (silly voice) 'Cause we eat (silly voice) We know all of the burgers. (silly voice) Yo, any burger - (silly voice) and blindfold me, - (laughing) Burger Mouth? Burger Mouth has no teeth. (silly voice) Yo, Burger Mouth - (laughing) Ah, Burger Mouth is up 2 to 1, - (silly voice) Burger Mouth is in da house. So we're moving on to Round 6, which is a combination We're twice as likely to be wrong, is basically what is happening here. (silly voice) All right, let's bring - (coughing) and the outside of another burger? Don't tell him anything. Well, that would be like an official rule. I think I get that much. Here we go. (Morgan) Frankenburger! (eating noises) (mouth full) I don't need that much bread. I'll throw that aside. (crew laughs) (mouth full) That's a lot of bread. Imma hold that piece. I'm completely in the dark. All right, let's go. (Stevie) Bread answer in three, two, one. - (Rhett) McDonald's. Really? I'm just guessing now. (Stevie) And innards answer - (Rhett) Hardee's. Yep. Mmhmm. That bread (Morgan) Frankenburger! (crew laughs) That bread got hard! It tastes exactly the same My burger's twice as big. Who makes big burgers though? This is a much better tasting burger. - (Stevie) Okay? Um, wow, where is that bread from? - Okay, I know what I'm gonna say. And I'm definitely gonna (Stevie) Okay, bread answer (in unison) Wendy's. Oh, we agree! We're both equally stupid. Check this out, what I'm gonna Okay. (Stevie) Innards answer in three, two one. - (Rhett) Wendy's. - (laughing) I double-Wendy'd. You're hedging your bets here. - I did the old &quot;Double Wendy.&quot; Should we find out where Yeah, let's find out where Okay. Round last. (Stevie) Okay, the score Oh! So you have to get and I have to get none Yeah. So... so let me prepare (Morgan) Frankenburger! (eating and surprised noises) I got a little of the &quot;special&quot; on my lip. All right, I'm taking it apart in my mouth. There's a little patty. A little &quot;special&quot; happening on my left cheek. (laughing) I'm not getting a lot of special. I think I got two of the ingredients. But I gotta get all three to get right. (Stevie) Ready? All right, bread first. (Stevie) Okay, here we got - (Rhett) McDonald's. I don't know, I'm just... bread. Hardee's bread. And then (Stevie) Meat in three, two, one. - (Rhett) Burger King. I'm hedging my bets here. I didn't guess Burger King for-- (Stevie) And special in three, two, one. - (Rhett) In-N-Out. McDonald's mustard. I thought it was special I thought the burger was a Whopper, and I thought the bread was All right, so. (Stevie) Okay, and the final score is (victory noise) Ho! You suck a little bit less than me. Yeah. All right, kick in the celebratory music. And here, I'll let you I got it honest. What? Come on, man. You let the loser crown you, he's gonna crown you upside down, sucka! - We got-- exactly who was right Well, we had some licensing so we had go with &quot;King Burger.&quot; (Rhett laughing) Thanks for liking and Feel free to do this on your own time and discover that your You know what time it is. You did it. - King Burger. You still got your crown? Yes, of course. I wear it whenever And I, do I know how many? Well, I mean, we were so confident Well, we learned that than we thought that it was. We would not go in with We know better now. And also now we typically rank them, to both taste and rank. To add a little facet. Anyway, are they any good? The show's gotten better, guys. Don't say it like that, Like you're being defensive. All right, let's wash down preferably with an Okay, well, Link, because this is the Blind from September 26th, 2017. - Got nut milk? - Let's talk about that. (playful theme music) - Good Mythical Morning. - A wise man once said, you - Last time I checked, but that's not gonna stop us today. A lot of people go nuts for because it's all the rage, is what I understand. - It's non-dairy. - But can we identify what just by taste alone? It's time for I like Milked - We are going to be tasting nut milks from the patent pending And again, we have no idea we're just based on the nut taste alone trying to guess what nut And we're gonna be using the to pierce the udder and receive our milk. - In the end, the winner Nut Milk Brian, and because I'm already Diet Brian and Juice Brian, I think the odds are in my favor. - The Brian gods are shining on you. (playful music) - [Together] Round one. - The first nut bladder is attached, and we're going to pierce it, and then, - Suckle it. Mine's ready to go. Had to figure out the physics of it. Once I did, boy that's tasty. - It is really good. - It's really good, it's very mild. - It's so mild. - Now, I mean I drink almond milk. - I eat a lot of almond butter, too. I've had some cashew - Yeah, me too. - I haven't gone beyond that. - I'm not very much, I'm - I can't say that this of those, but there's between those two. - I'm a cashew milk man, that's and I put into my cereals. We also have almond milk, coconut milk, but I'm a cashew man. I feel like I'm personally But that may just be a diversion. - [Stevie] Okay, you ready? Three, two, one. - Cashew. - Uh, brazil nut. (crew laughs) - [Stevie] That was cashew milk. - Oh that was cashew? It tasted very familiar. (playful music) - [Together] Round two. - Okay, we got another - Whoa. I got a springy. - Whoa, oh, I went, mine went up. I don't know, there we go. Let me get in here. What, it's coming out Wow, it's so-- - That is a sweet, sweet milk. - It's a sweet, sweet milk. That is a sweet, sweet milk. - It's got an oaty-ness to it. - What nut is that? - Is oats a nut? - Hold on. - It tastes like a nut - In Sweden, I had oat milk. - Well, oat's not a nut, man. I know, but that was very good. - That wasn't Sweden, by the - Oh yeah. - Really? - I'd like to go to Sweden now - It is sweet. - [Stevie] I'm gonna need an answer. You ready? - Yeah. - Walnut. - Uh, pecan. - [Stevie] This is a hazelnut. - Hazel. - Not really. (playful music) - [Together] Round three. - What do you know, more - Oh! - Uh. This is not a nut milk, this Let me get on your teat, 'cause your teat was really flowing. Let it go. - And if you get too much Like it went all down my shirt. And now it's going down my pants. - What is that nut? - It's the worst tasting so far. - It's a nut milk that - It's got like, it's very earthy. - I have an answer. - [Stevie] Okay, three, two, one. - Pecan. - [Stevie] This is pistachio - Pistachio milk made 'cause other people tried we can't sell this. (playful music) - [Together] Round four. - Okay, let's prick anudder udder. Hmmm, that one's good, too. - That is so-- - Got it. I think I got this one. - Okay, I think, I feel as - [Stevie] Okay, three, two, one. - Pecan. - [Stevie] I'm sorry, what-- - I said walnut. - [Stevie] It is walnut. - Yep, there's a very specific - That is good tasting, though. - That is really good, did - No. (playful music) - [Together] Round five. - Well there's no way I can win Rhett, so I crown you Nut Milk Brian. You're now a Brian, hey, - I'll play this last - Whoa! - Oh I got a double, I I don't know which side to go. - That's not bad. - That is so specific. - Yeah, it's unlike any There's still a slight which makes me think that Now that we know that walnut milk, and what was the other - Hazelnut. store-bought, I didn't know that. I think this one also is store-bought. - Now, I've had every sort of nut milk. Of course, being Nut Milk Brian. But sometimes, but sometimes, I don't mind it's pretty much an everyday Just comes with the territory, in fact, let me drink from your teat. - There you go. - I almost just pierced my - You don't wanna do that. - Wouldn't be the first time. - It's not, it doesn't There's not anything it's just like, it's good. - It's very good. - What is that nut? - [Stevie] Okay, three, two, one. - Brazil nut. Which are technically nuts. - Maca--, oh, it's so clearly. so expensive. - Reminds me of my trip to the island. - I bet they charge a - Well, I'm happy to say and will always be Nut Milk Brian. - You got a lot on your beard. - Thank you for liking, - You know what time it is. That's a good one. Even though. That's a good one. I just want to let you know, in its entirety. That's a good one. And I just thought, that was good, You didn't get any right. Didn't get any of them right. You didn't get any right, man. Now, we learned a couple We learned that we like Which I haven't really You call yourself Also, I like the cashew. Chase, I know that pistachio milk, which we didn't like. But I do know that you feel as if you've had the most fun is what I just heard you say. Most fun you've ever had, in your life? Is that what you were saying? Making it? I don't think I said Oh, what did you say then? I said I had more fun making that, than I did most I made for you. Oh, okay. Cause you like milked nuts I think because it was You just like soak the nuts, and then you blend them and you It was way easier You got to warn me Hey, hey, hey, All right. After you suckle on an udder, Treat yourself to several Yes, this is the Blind Ice from June 4th, 2018. I scream, you scream, we all scream for an ice cream death match. Let's talk about that. Good Mythical Summer. The best part of summertime ice cream parlors can finally which have been boarded sparse, disease-ridden winter, and yell to the townspeople the ice cream is back, and the ice cream is back. I love that classic summertime tradition. Everybody loves ice cream, ice cream out there? We could debate our local we're finding out the best you can buy in almost any grocery store. It's time for What Pint of Ice Cream Okay, we're gonna be tasting vanilla from each of the brands, across-the-board indicator of quality. Sorry, we don't make the rules. Actually, we did. And we're gonna be rating the ice cream on a scale of one to 10, and also guessing which brand we each think it is. At the end, the highest-rated ice cream will be crowned the king of ice cream, and whoever guesses the correctly between the two us Mmhmm, and here are the Haagen-Dazs, Ben &amp; Jerry's, Dreyer's, and Breyer's. Let's do this. Round one. As you can see, we can't. All of the ice cream will be served to us on the patent-pending commune spoon. Let's bring in the commune spoon. Where is it, where is it? Where is it? Is it, oh, hey, oh, oh, oh. Where's the ice cream We were close. Be careful, I do not want to Hold on, where? How much ice cream, they didn't put. Oh there's some over here, too. Oh, I got, I got, I got some ice cream. Now that is, that's some good ice cream. It tastes good. to compare it to. a little bit on my beard. Not a lot, but maybe just a tad. You know, I think it's great, it to, I will say it's than the creamy side. I don't think I'm gonna have any insight into this at all, because I very rarely get just straight vanilla ice cream. I like a good vanilla ice cream. And I haven't had a few of these. I've had many of these, and the thing about Dreyer's and Breyer's that I learned was that named after totally different people, and I kind of thought that who broke off from to thumb his nose, so I'm How about Dreyer's, it's drier. But they are totally separate is what my research tells me. And by the way, I guess just since it's the first one. Well you always do that, so I'm gonna do it as well. No, I'm giving it, I'm gonna Think it's a little low? nothing really exciting ice cream, but it didn't It was good, not great. You ready to guess? Yeah. Three, two, one. Dreyer's. Oooh. with Dreyer's? You said, oh, no, no, it's Buh, buh, buh. Round two. Alright, bring it in. I understand how the There's ice cream on, well maybe I don't. Where, oh. Oh sorry. I think I might have just Did you move the spoon Don't touch the spoon. Well I was pushing down on the spoon. I had to just suck it out of the spoon. I'm gonna suck a ball of You okay? Now I immediately notice I got a lot. Oh! I got a lot of ice cream. What have you noticed about it? 'Cause I'm noticing something immediately. It's cold. Okay, what else? It's better. than the previous ice cream. So whatever that one was, I'm saying, I went with a five before, man, I'm gonna go with a, at It's got a hint of almost, Vanilla. Yeah, it's much more vanilla-y. Do you have a hint of salt? A hint of salt? Yeah. It is very good, though. It's got a more complex flavor, It was a little overwhelming. What number are you giving it? I'm gonna give it a seven, but what is it? I have a guess. Okay, I got a guess, as well. Three, two one. Blue Bunny. I almost went with Tillamook, but I haven't had that before, Me neither Round three. Are they washing the spoon every time? I think it's a new commune spoon time. Probably not. chinned with some ice cream. Oh that, no, that's just the spoon, the spoon's just that cold. The spoon moves a lot, and I don't know if that's you, or the person holding it. That's not me. That's the person holding it. There's a sharp end over in the face, so I'd Well, tell that to the Creamier, much creamier, right? I was thinking icier. Well, the taste is creamier, may very well be icier. It feels like it's got more air in it. Like somebody took a shortcut. And then, and now, I'm getting, you know, ice cream has a certain amount of air Can we bring the spoon back in please? Oh, the spoon wasn't even there? Dang, having a lot of spoon issues. Traditionally, the thicker the ice cream, the less air that's in It also has a slight, as an aftertaste, did you notice that? No, but I do think it's as the last round, it's So between five and an eight I'm gonna go with a six for this one. I'm going back down to a four. This one is as bad as the first one for me But what is it? I honestly don't know. Want to guess anyway? Yeah, I think we should guess anyway. Three, two, one. Blue Bunny. Round four. I've never felt, I've never felt more lost. I just feel like I'm just throwing out random ice cream brand as to what, there's no logic to it. Wow, this ice cream is totally different than any of the others. It's so much smoother. Oh, that's almost soft serve. I think I know what this I've got the phone number, I'm Let me get some more of that, that's good. You think it's the best? Where is it? I still think the second one, I still haven't figured out my technique. I feel like a baby who's I put my lips on it and just suck. Like on a cow teat. There was an audible ugh, This isn't gross. It's just two guys eating This one is so smooth. You've seen that before. Since it's the smoothest one, the consistency is top is still not as good as my number eight. So I'm giving this one a seven. I'm giving this one, it doesn't have as much of a But I think I gave the other one a seven, I give this one a six, 'cause I do, you know what, I'm gonna because the consistency's better. And I'm pretty much betting Really? Okay. Okay, three, two, one. Haagen-Dazs. Ben &amp; Jerry's is not that smooth, is it? Well, it is, because that's Ben &amp; Jarry's. Round five. Bring it in, bring it in. Oh, that makes me want to go in, making pig noises. That's the way to get to get in there. Mmm, mmm, that's a good ice cream. Dang, it tastes exactly I can't, what. It tastes no different that that one. I feel like they're giving, they're making yours higher or something. There it is , I found the ball. Gosh, the noises that you're, it's like an alien dissection. Oh man, oh. That's good, isn't it, man. You're right, though, it's Which I gave an eight to, it's exactly, exactly the same as according to my recollection, so I'm also giving it an eight, which I think is gonna become my new 10, I think the consistency Of that is better, so which I think is my highest so far. Three, two, one. Blue Bunny. I think Blue Bunny's not a good ice cream. Really? but I can't say for sure. never had it, wouldn't know. Round six. Alright, last one. I'm gonna try to have I've learned a lot of lessons I'm gonna try to do this in This, my friends, is of all of them that we It's not bad, unless you've that we've had this morning. Do you agree? It's definitely not a It's definitely the worst in my mind. I mean the taste is just blah, I'm giving it a four. It has a little bit of that I was talking about It's very mild. Not a bad consistency. Yeah, it's creamy. I'll give this one a four, as well. Again, I'm not saying it's bad, I'm just saying it's the worst. Do you know what it is? Yeah, definitely. Three, two, one. Dreyer's. That guy who says that he but we know he did. I've read the Wikipedia, and Okay, can we take our blindfolds off? Yep, take your blindfolds off. Who do you feel, about Dreyer's, 'cause to them at the end, especially me maybe. Yeah, don't bring me into that. If I was that wrong, I will apologize. Who do you feel won this game? I honestly was, it was a every single time. Link seemed to have some but he's done that before, what that means? I think Rhett won, but I Link, you got three correct. What, that's incredible! Yeah, I feel good. But Rhett. You got one correct. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The last one apparently. So let's bring out that crown for Link. So that makes me the ice cream king. And your favorite ice cream. Ice cream for everyone. With a total of 16 Ben &amp; Jerry, was Link No. He wasn't right about that one. And your second favorite was Haagen-Dazs. And your least favorite was Dreyer's. Dreyer's, yep, okay. We did it. some logic there. It's amazing what one It'll make your ice cream suck. Alright, now you know You're welcome. We're gonna eat some more I believe, but thank you for liking, commenting, and subscribing. You know what time it is. - So. We never liked Dreyer's. We didn't really like Breyers but Dreyer's, boy we will Dryer sheets, though? If Youtube still Next up, the dryer sheet. Can't do it. We can't do that. That's got to be a - We can't do that. Ben &amp; Jerry's, Best vanilla. It's solid. Like. It's so solid. It's a great base for Yeah, but when I. I never get Ben &amp; Jerry's vanilla, right. I guess some people do. Some people do, but. It's probably the most It doesn't, it doesn't come Ben &amp; Jerry's doesn't sell anything Which is interesting. Do they? I bet you they do. I don't think they do, in my comings and goings. In the Midwest you know You think they sell a whole I don't think they do. They can be coming back. The questions that are being unprecedented. That was French. Oh, I know. In honor of this next episode. All right, Blind French Fry from February 5th, 2016. We're gonna cover our eyes and taste some fries. Let's talk about that! Good mythical morning! You may recall in a previous episode of this show, Good Mythical Morning, we had a blind burger taste test. (Yes). We tasted different burgers from fast food joints. (Yes). Link, you took home the victory in that one (yes), but now we're moving things a little bit to the side. And that means the side, of frieees. 'Cause fries are a side to burgers, so... But they the main course today, y'all. So who's better at tasting fries? We're gonna find out! And identifying where they're from without being told. (Oh, yes) That's what we're really examining. So, let's play- Two Guys Try Some Fries with Blindfolds on Their Eyes. (Surprise!) As you can see, we can't. We're gonna be tasting, six different french fries, or six rounds, and then a bonus round that's gonna get a little interesting. So we do not know what we're going to be tasting, but we do know what we're gonna be choosing from. We have a word bank of fries, which include: McDonalds, Burger King, I'm going by memory because I have a blind fold on. Wendy's, Arby's, Carl's Juniors/Hardees, Jack in the Box. (That's it.) I think I counted my middle finger twice, it's actually six. Can't count. (Got 'em written on the inside of my mask.) So those are the options that we have to identify, just based on taste, texture and tongue touching alone. (So then...) We're gonna touch the fries with our tongues. Feel free to play along at home if you have fries and blindfolds. Let's do this! Round 1! Okay, the first fries will be brought in on the patent pending fry stick (oh) affectionately known as the Frick. The frickin' fry stick! Let's bring in the Frick! (Could be the Sty) Oh, tasty time. I love fries, y'all. I know exactly where these are from. Instant! Well, see. I feel like I know exactly where they're from, but my instincts about fast food are always wrong. Huh, well, you have to make a choice and we're gonna give our answers in unison. (Okay). Right now. 3... 2... 1... McDonalds! (Yeah, easy!) Oh, do you, are you, not gonna tell us? Oh, ho, she's not gonna tell us! (Ooh!) That was silent! (Woow!) Okay. So now (I was waitin' for confirmation) Oh, man, there's no matter of elimination with these. (Okay). May have to answer some double, but bring it one! (Let's taste it!) Round 2! I made the mistake of putting on your Peanut Butter Peppermint Lip Balm. That's never a mistake. It's only a mistake when you're about to eat french fries and try to figure out where they're from. (Okay). But I'm enjoying it. Alright. Bring it, bring it to my lips. (Bring it in). Oh, there it is. (Okay, ugh). I've got a smell technique going. Wow, those are so distinctly different. I'd say these are much more potato-y. Not as good though. They're still very good, to me. I love fries of all shapes and sizes. Except for sweet potato fries. Those are for LOSERS! Those are for, those are for cowards. What are they afraid of? Regular potatoes? (Yes). I heard they are better for you though. Man, that's really good. I think I know what that is, I formulated... Really? You think you know? This is a shot in the dark for me. Okay, 3... 2... 1... Wendy's/Jack in the Box You could be right, Rhett. I'm gonna tell you, I'm not 100% certain. (Hold on). But as the burger champ, I'm just gonna say I wasn't as certain about that one as... But you love fries, you love the fries. Round 3! Okay, next round. (Bring the fries to the Fry Daddy, that's me). What? I'm not gonna touch that, 'cause I don't want an advantage. You gonna have to re-touch it. Lizzie? (Yeah) Is that you I hear cringing? (It's just very spitty). That's a curly! It's very obviously a curly fry unless something went really wrong with the regular fry. That fry didn't know which way to go. But there's two, that I know of, two chains from our choices that have curly fries, right? Carl's Junior (and Arby's has curly fries). I don't know if I can tell the difference between Arby's and Hardees and you know what they may just get them from the same supplier. They don't get them from the same supplier. There's a distinct difference? (I believe there is, yeah). Do you taste the difference? Yes, yes. Do you know what it is? Yes, I definitely know what supplier these curly fries come from. 'Cause I work directly with that supplier, as the Fry Daddy. Delivered directly to my home. Superior to waffle fries as in almost every account except for one And I need an answer In,3... 2... 1... Arby's/Carl's Jr. A.K.A Hardees Without a disout Not Arby's Round four A good curly fry Hard to come by Well that was a good one (even with in, even within a box of curly fries) I just don't know where it was from, but it was good Alright Ta... Let me tasty The next one (Inaudible) Um... Are there still some left on the frick Like can you give me the back side of that frick and I just... we took them of here are some other ones Other ones yeah I am just going to be brutally honest here and say That is the least tatsy fry I have tasted thus far. You know... I am a lover of all fry's (you don't like that one?) I don't discriminate, but i have to be honest and say... I don't... I didn't like the taste of that fry. What don't you like about it? you don't like the flatness, You got a problem with the fry flatness? I... I didn't think it tasted as good but I'm using the shape to try and identify where there from Aren't you?(Yes and I feel like I have a guess as to who has flat fries.) Yeah I think I got it. (Ok let's hear your answers.) 3... 2... 1... (unison) wendy's. Oh you already said Wendy's. Well, I know I cha... I said it again. Ok, (I... I had to,) So now who's the fry daddy huh? ( Ok.) Round 5 Alright fly the fry's in on the frick This is fun. (Inaudible) Whoa! (Uh oh Those are curly.) It's like eating a potato garden hose I know that this is the other place that has curly fries. The first time, I said Arby's. You said confidently that it was Arby's No, I said Carls Jr.s slash Hardees. I was trying to play tricks on your mind Uh, but as we have already established (Um so... Inaudible) I said everything confidently. And it was all a facade. So This is so familiar, but I don't know which place it is familiar to. It's got a different spice on it. It's got more spice on it. So who has more spice? On their curly fries it seems like a thing that Arby's would do Yet you've already guessed Arby's (But, so... ) But I can guess it again if I want. No you can't (Yeah I can, I out can put what ever kind, you guessed wendy's twice.) Well that's me. Um. Man. Ok, I am going to need an answer Ready? Yes. 3... 2... 1... ( Unision) Arby's Oh See. ( I trust your fry pallet man.) I am going with it. And so did I We might both be in trouble. Round 6 Ok so... We have no Idea where we stand. Um... but we know this is the final regular round I do know that after eating all of these fries I feel like I have earned a subscription to Spudman Mazagine. Magazine I always say Mazagine, I can't help myself. (Yeah, yeah, yeah that's right) Spudman Bring it in. I'll be Fry daddy you can be Spudman. This is cold um. My fry was warm, then cold, then warm again that's how long it was. I feel like if these were cripsy, they've sauged out a little bit. Th... That's the thing about the frick The time that it takes to get them onto the frick and get them into your mouth. sometimes they saug out a little bit. Mine didn't saug out they colded off. 'cause I feel like if these were really, Crispy. I would feel confident saying my last guess, Which is burger king, that's all I got left. I thought that Burger King fries were like super thick and crispy. But Burger King is always like let's reinvent our fries. Th... They have, (it's another odd year, let's reinvent our fries.) They have notably reinvented their fries, and that... the fry before the current one is the one that I really like You can't pin Burger King down when it comes to the fries. but it's ok because they're called Burger King, as long as they don't change the burgers. They can keep experimenting with the fries. Now I won't hold it against you. (and they could call themselves, Indecisive Fry King. I like that, Ok. I think I know what I a going to say. Ok. I think I know that your wrong, Confidently. Ok, 3... 2... 1... Burger King/ Jack in the box. I don't I am pretty sure it's not Burger king ( you didn't say Burger King for any of them.) No I didn't I think the second one was Burger King, now in retrospect. Ok, before we get to the bonus liquify round, which is worth 2 points We are going to remove our blindfolds, (Ok.) And see where we stand. Um... ( Can I open my eyes?) Yeah but it's bright Wow it's difficult (Um... Ok.) Stevie, where do we stand? Link, You have 3 points Oh really? Fry Daddy. Rhett, You have 4 points What, (Yeah!) Fry Daddy! slide right in Man, It's always anybody's game. your, Spud man Ok, ( I am Fry Daddy.) Liquifry I can't believe I might be about to beat you at your own game. but you know what, this is for two points it is anybody's fry game and the winner is crowned fry king. Lord of the fries ( lord of the fries.) What is it this is the Liquifry, ooh this is it looks like applesauce. We have blended a fry of our choice along with some ingredients that usually go great on the side of fries, but not together. Um and that is ketchup, and coke. and this is a... it is a proprietary substance. And we would like you to guess the fry. and we are trying to guess what the fry is. This is impossibla. No no, smell it though I smell ketchup, and Cola. there is a fry, it smells like the floor of my elementary cafeteria. you know. You don't have to drink it. just guess, but I feel like there is something to be learned. probably don't do this. it's like a ( there is a fry in there.) like a demented slushy. it taste like a slushy 'cause of the cola. I wonder if you could snort it if you got it in your sinuses you would be able to decipher it. now I am going to put that in my nouth I keep having a distinct restaurant come back to my brain. and when I feel very found about it, it makes me cry, alright I have my guess. Ok, 3... 2... 1... Burger King/ Arby's He said Burger King I said Arby's It's do or die for the Fry Daddy. Well Fry Daddy's neither one of you got that right, It was McDonalds. It was McDonalds? but hey! look at me, I came back Link! I am the lord of the fries There he is. Mr. Lord of the fries. Look at all of the places I have eaten fries. from I think it's very clear, that wearing that is questionable, in terms of being a prize. Thanks for liking sharing commenting and subscibing and tasting along with us. You know what time it is. Okay. When we go back in time we find that we just didn't Yeah, we just told you if I mean, what's the fun in that? Well. I think you had a lot of fun. I mean, you were named I was, and Link, you said that curly fries were superior in every aspect except one, and then you did not go So, 8 years later, do you People coming up to my asking me about this. Yeah? Well, clear it up for everybody. I've had letters just about this. And these letters are from People losing sleep. Who would rather send me a Yeah. I send you a lot of letters. And. They come back, though. I just like keeping the mystery alive What's that one reason? If you know, you know. You totally dodged it, You totally dodged it. - It's my truth to share. It's my truth to share. Okay. Some people don't they contain mystery meat, Yeah, just like sweet All right, this is Who Makes Question mark, Taste Test. From February 28th, 2020. Oh, in the 2020s. - Who makes the best fast food hot dog? - Let's talk about that. Good Mythical Morning! - Here in America we love hot dogs. We have absolutely no idea what's in them, but you put a dog in my - Mm-hmm, the only thing more American than getting a hot dog is getting six hot dogs from And also being blindfolded. It's time for which is Worth the chew and which of award winning actor Tony Shaloub? - How would you even know - We gonna find out, I don't know. We're tasting hot dogs from that's how many fingers that is, fast foods spots-- - And we're rating them the best one. Those six places are. - Five Guys. - Sonic Drive-In. - Dairy Queen. - Costco. - Wienerschnitzel. - And 7-Eleven. - Now, to keep things fair and we're using the from those respective locations. And if you think seven and 11 and Costco aren't fast food restaurants, But they do serve food fast - Did you just say seven and 11? - Seven and 11. - Okay, this wouldn't without a little friendly competition, so whoever can guess the in terms of matching them to will receive a very own hot dog on a stick from former Hot Dog on a - Oh, let's eat some meat. (upbeat music) - As you can see, we can't. - Okay, every hot dog on the patent pending Hot Dog Hot Tub. - Ooh, wish I could see that. Bring it in. (Link growling) Okay. Hmm. - This is gonna be tough. - Yeah, first we should rank how much we like it. - I mean, this is okay. I mean, I like hot dogs, but I don't particularly like that one. - You know what, I actually I think, I'm giving this one a seven and that's conservative. - What do you like about it? - I almost wanna give it an eight. The hot dog itself tastes, it tastes like it's got love in it. It tastes good, it's a good tasting dog. The bread, meh. - [Stevie] Wait, did you A seven, not an eight? - I almost gave it an eight, - [Stevie] Okay. - What are you giving it? - I'm giving it a four. I don't-- - I'm not feeling the love in that one. - You're gonna find that hot - Okay, I-- - I think I know where it's from, too. - I've got a guess. - [Stevie] Okay, here - 7-Eleven. - You think it's from Five Guys? - Yeah, yeah. - I think I felt like it had and that's what made it good. It's cooked in the same spot. - Well, you got a different - [Both] Round two. - Bring it in. - Okay. It's been a while since It feels good. - I mean, on this show, yes. - Hmm, this is a slightly The last one was a thin dog. - This is better. - It's a thicker dog. Ooh, yeah it is better. My scale-- You're gonna have to break 10, man. That hot dog is way better. - This hot dog, wow, - Exactly, unlike the first one. - I guess I like hot dogs Almost too much flavor. Yeah, I'm just like-- - Too much flavor? - It almost tastes like ham. - I like it. And it's a beef hot dog. I feel really good about this one. - The aftertaste isn't good for me. I'm sorry, it's flavorful, but. - Okay, well I'm going to eight. I'm giving this one an eight. It's not a perfect hot - I'm gonna give it a five because though it does the flavor is kind of hammy. - It has a hammy flavor. - [Stevie] You ready? - Hold on. Yeah, I think I got an idea. - [Stevie] Okay, three, two, one. - Sonic! - What, really? - I'm going, I think and they like to do things big. (upbeat music) - [Both] Round three. - Okay, wiener my schnitzel. - Aye aye aye aye. Okay. That was a thick wiener. - That is, you thought this is a big hot dog. - Oh, what are they trying to prove? You couldn't even choke on that wiener because it would get stuck - Somebody's got a chip on their shoulder. They are trying to prove something. - 'Cause people choke on I mean, it's like the - How would you, yeah, period. For everyone on Earth? - Number one cause of death - How would you describe the taste? - I was so overwhelmed with the girth. - Right. - That I was unable to process the taste. But I do not want another bite - The skin was thin and but there wasn't a lot of... - Don't say the skin was thin, man. - You know some of them - [Rhett] Yeah, like a pop. - I think I know where you know I did not like it. I don't like it that big. I gonna give it a four. - I was thrown off by the girth as well, but I appreciate the effort and I think I know the to try this. - Yeah, me too. - [Stevie] Here we go, three, two, one. - Costco! You know Costco! - Got those big wieners. Big ole wieners. - Costco, big ole - That big around, come and get a sample. (upbeat music) - [Both] Round four! - Okay. Listen, hopefully we got my jaw needs a rest. - You know, my wife and she never eats a hot dog. - [Rhett] I heard about that. - She's never eaten a hot dog. - Oh oh. That's a tiny wiener. Oh, that taste awful. - The mustard and the ketchup one too because they're from each restaurant on it. - The meat tastes like, is already the rejected this is the rejected meat from other hot dogs that were made. You know what I'm saying? Like doubly rejected meat. - It's not a good taste. - Wow, that's not good. - One. - Two. - Giving it a one, you're giving it a two? Two is the lowest you - Yeah, I mean it's still a hot dog. Man, I don't wanna disrespect anybody. - So where do you think Who's got the suckinest dog out there? - I feel like I know who this is because of something with their dogs, and I've seen them do it. Those rascals, yes I've seen 'em do it. - You've seen 'em do it? - Yup, seen 'em do it. - All right, I have a guess, I'm ready. - [Stevie] Three, two, one. - Dairy Queen. - Nope, I think it's Dairy - Oh! - They used to, I don't know, Don't use me Dairy! - 'Cause they had to get a special license to grill the burgers and but they could always boil them. - They give you a boiled hot dog. That's what I remember as a child now. Things may be different, I'm (upbeat music) - [Both] Round five! - Feed me! (Link mumbling) Okay. Oh my gosh. - That bun is so toasty. - That's a huge bun. That bun, this is a place because their buns are huge. You just wanna nestle of that hot dog. - But that's a nice profile. I mean, the flavor - Really good, yeah. - Is really subtle. - Yeah. - That's what I'm saying, not too hammy. - There's not bad it's saying bring me the toppings. - But I agree that the hot dog itself is the best tasting hot dog. - And the bun was great, - Yeah, I'm gonna give this - I don't know if I can - Where is this from? - I think I'm gonna go all - Come-- - Come to nineland! It's wonderful, we have hot but are really good. - And I think I know the and the way that they did it. - [Stevie] Okay, three, two, one. - Five Guys! - I said Five Guys, you said Sonic? - I know, I was just louder. I thought that would make - Well, you might be right. - All right, can we remove the folds? - No we got another hot dog, man. - Oh man! get of this easy. - [Both] Round six! - It all comes down to this. - Last wiener. - What, what, what? What the heck, what, what. What is the bun? - Well, the bun is a piece of bread that is designed to put the wiener inside. - Oh my goodness, I think - The way that the bun and the wiener was big. - Mm-hmm, the form factor than any other one that we've - The taste is not on par. The taste is good. really good. - Seven. - I don't know. - I can't go all the way - I can, but I can't go to nine, so I give it an eight. - Okay. - Very good dog. - Where do they wrap - I actually think the at this place. - How do they get the wiener to have such a close Or maybe it was the bun that with the wiener. - I'm trying to remember. - That is really the question of the day. - Let's see, what's the other place I haven't guessed? There's Sonic and then the other one? - Dairy Queen? - Yeah, oh dang. - [Stevie] I know this is to give you a three, two, one. - Uh okay, I've got a guess, - [Stevie] Three, two, one. - Sonic. - Okay, can we de. - [Stevie] Yeah, you can - Oh man, back in the real world. I can't see. - [Stevie] Link. - Have I done something? - [Stevie] You have one point. (Rhett clapping) - Dang man, how many does Rhett have? - [Stevie] Rhett, you - This is tough, man! - We suck so bad! - Is it the same one? - [Stevie] Yes, it's the You guys celebrated it. - All right, we got that. Yeah, big warehouse, big dog. I remember that earlier. - Yeah. - [Stevie] The biggest surprise though, is that your number one is from 7-Eleven. - Yes! - [Rhett] They know what they're doing. - I'm sorry, 7-Eleven, I'm thinking that you had the worst. - [Stevie] But here's-- - Didn't I do that? - I don't know. - [Stevie] Better news, I don't but I'm gonna say that give you guys both a hot dog on a stick. - Oh wow! Actual former employee. - Hot dog on a stick for you - Who gets the stick? - You have to break it like a wishbone. - This is how you talked - One hot dog on a stick. - He's so charming. - Whose idea was it for you which apparently you kept? It was your idea. I think it was his idea. - I love it, does Hot Dog on a Stick give you their slippery, they're slippery, they gotta - You grab them and it - Okay, we'll break down these hot dogs in Good Mythical More as well. Thanks for subscribing - You know what time it is. We weren't really good at this. Just one apiece. But, boy, the big surprise is - And I haven't. People a lot of times ask do you take what you've and then apply it to real life? And this is a perfect No, we don't. I don't, but I think you. I've been to Sonic for a, I believe that Sonic has You're more likely to apply than we are. Oh, yes. Cause we applied it Right. We were applying. How many 7-Eleven hot dogs since then? Not remembering how We both loved it. Now that I've re-unlocked now I know, 7-Eleven Go get one today. Yeah, and who know what of that episode. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, you're still here. So, you're doing great I don't know if you've been or if you've been, if this is But, you might, you might But not now, Yeah, I mean, you This is the last episode in A little night cap for you, of day it is. Non-alcoholic one, of course. Yes, this is the Non-Alcoholic from January 29th, 2021. Is non-alcoholic alcohol any fun at all? Let's talk about that. Good Mythical Morning. You know how some people put so they can have their vitamin C and an excuse to take a nap before noon? Ah. Well, what if I told you that they make a vodka without the part that makes you sleepy? You talking about Four Loko? Because that is not a road No, I'm just talking about Okay, forget I ever said anything. I mean, it's staggering non-alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic alcoholic beverages, are out there. I mean, turns out lots of people wanna live that healthy at the same time. But personally, I do not get the buzz. Was that intentional? Yes. I don't get it either, but maybe we will by It's time for Non-Alcoholic But Does it Taste Good or Please welcome back the AKA the HFT 2021. Whoa, yes, the Mythical some of the most popular and best-selling non-alcoholic liquors, meant to emulate, oh, wow. Never done that before. Emulate, do it at opportune times. Not when I'm explaining the rules. Okay, so these are supposed of certain alcoholic counterparts. Now, we're gonna be served through these booze-free booze tubes, and then we're gonna try and guess what kind of alcohol they're You try, man, it's pretty fun. All right, after the answer is revealed... Like a trumpet. I know you only did it before yours was stolen. Oh, it's coming, you didn't tell me that it was coming out of my mouthpiece. We're also gonna rank how and to really make it we're gonna be served a mocktail with it in proper context. Oh, gosh. I'm better at this than talking. Points will escalate each round, and the loser will get mocked while drinking a mocktail Chase, are you ready to pour? Oh, yeah. Well, as you can see, we Okay. You unleashing, Rhett? I got, eh! What is going on, here? I'm trying to get Do you have liquids, man? I've got enough liquid. Almost came out of my nose, Spicy. Dang, it's hot. It's cold but I mean it's just like, I'm ready to guess. Three, two, one. Fireball! With a 94 point rating from the Beverage Testing Institute, this product from Ritual Zero Proof brand, oh yeah, Rhett, you can ranks the highest in the world when it comes to non-alcoholic spirits. Made with filtered water, cane sugar, citric acid and salt, this alternative has an agave aroma with hints of guava and peppercorn and is meant to be a tequila alternative. Well, neither of us said tequila. It literally was spicy, like it leaves a spicy Zero proof. Well, see what it tastes like in these mocktail margaritas, see if it tastes like- Fireball is the only but that's not even a valid guess, 'cause- They add something to it to make it spicy to emulate the kick of I mean, this is a lot better than just a straight up nasty. I mean, this stuff on Yeah, it's like spicy water. Which is what my kids for the longest time, but... Spicy water, huh? This is much better. I mean you can put, that's I'm good with putting it over there. Yeah, I mean, again, by itself, not great. In the context of this fake drink, okay. Number one, whatever. All right, Chase, release the hounds. Okay, that's a little gradual. Oh. That tastes like... Ugh. Tastes like bad medicine. I'm having to work so hard to just get any to go in my mouth. Talk about Def Leppard up in here. Or was that Bon Jovi? What in the world? It Yeah, it's like, there's a to like a cough syrup. Is this cough syzurp? It's like non-alcoholic cough syrup. That's my guess. Okay, let's go for real Bourbon? I don't know. Okay, you can take off your masks. This liquor alternative is and its ingredients include apple juice and oak and coffee flavoring to give it a woody molasses taste. Apparently woody molasses is what you need in a non-alcoholic rum. Rum? Aw, rum was gonna be but it wasn't the guess. Okay. And these are rum and Cokes. It tastes nothing like rum. No, it doesn't. At all. And that's coming from a man who got drunk in a bathtub one time. Yeah, lemme tell ya, if you drink nothing but then you pretty much Or take a bath. I wasn't there, I just, I mean it's not a bad drink. I'm like &quot;Ew, what'd you do to my Coke?&quot; I don't like this drink 'cause the first one at least So, this ranking is intact. Hey, Chase, you know what goes really good with non-alcoholic alcoholic beverages? I don't. Coloring. Like coloring a coloring book. Yeah, for adults. And for everyone. For everyone, that features, heck, it even features you, man. You're in it. Sounds good to me. It's the Mythical Coloring Book, available at Mythical.com. Get yours today. I have one. Oh, well I was talking Have you colored yourself, Chase? I have. That's awkward. Pour, buddy. No, I was saying, &quot;Oh, that's poor.&quot; Ah! Ooh! That tastes like you just that had died. You know, like a pine tree Oh my gosh! If you drank so much of and I guess you wouldn't it would clean your toilet. Yeah, it has an Ajax This is absolutely horrible. All right, I've got a guess. When I breathe out, horrible! Horrible. Three, two, one. Gin! That's definitely gin. Yeah, you guys both got it right, so. That's the first one they've done something that, when you just drink gin by itself, it's not necessarily good either. Zero alcohol gin, that's a pretty bottle! Zero proof, gluten free, zero sugar, paleo, and keto-approved, So what's this, a tonic and gin? Yes, gin and tonic. With a little rosemary sprig? Sprig it! You know, Stevie and Cassie, I don't know if they got you this, but for Christmas, they What? Yeah, they gave our family some cider. They gave you a gift? And it had rosemary And I put those rosemary sprigs every which way in that What does that mean? I'm just saying, I really love rosemary. Why are you, sit up, you Why you like-? I'm just being relaxed, man. Don't be so relaxed, it's non-alcoholic. You gotta stay spry, that's the point. That is actually the worst of all the And gin and tonic is actually But that tastes horrible, even &quot;Enjoy within six months.&quot; That is gonna be a challenge. All right, Chase, give Here they come. Oh. Oh, gosh! Good lord. Eh, it does have like That one's actually not as bad. Like a flat cream soda. Flat cream soda. What would that be? I got a guess. I just don't know liquors, man! Three, two, one. Whiskey. I have no- So it's bourbon. With hints of vanilla and toasted nuts, this non-alcoholic liquor claims to be not just an imitation, but a new creation in its own right. I really like the name of this brand, 'cause it's pronounced &quot;liars,&quot; so it's like they're lying about the, you know, it being real. I actually was a pretty, like, it hit in the way that which is never like &quot;Mm, I love it as soon It's like the second time it was like &quot;Oh,&quot; the edge kinda came Let's try that drink. And these are old-fashioneds. Old-fashioned. I can I think that this one for me, because I'm an old-fashioned fan, if you handed me that at a party, I would be like &quot;I don't really knows how to make an old-fashioned, but I'm not gonna keep thinking about it.&quot; It's just like very watered-down, tepid... I'm putting this at number one. If you're looking at the mixed Maybe the tequila one was better. I think that the tequila one was at least a tasty experience, but this feels like If you were gonna just sip you could sip this. Again, I don't know why you would. Don't, as a matter of fact. Hm, let it flow. I got nothing. Yeah, nothing was coming out Ugh. Oh, gosh. What...? This one at least has a hint of seeming like you're drinking alcohol. And I think as with the first tequila, there is a spiciness, right? There is, it's a manufactured spice. But now that we've gone through it, at least you have the sensation of like, &quot;I'm drinking something that's alcoholic,&quot; you actually have a little So now that I know that... Yeah, it's not spicy, it's So alcohol with a bite. But the taste, it's very light. It's fresh. I don't feel confident in Three, two, one. Vodka. Yeah, you're both right. Okay, we're both right. So it's a bestselling product from a brand called Arkay, it contains natural flavorings from an underground source Oh, underground source, huh? In Mexico's countryside. Moscow mule mocktails. You wanna grab it right here. I get a lot of my things Here's your mule. In life. Oh, I like a Moscow mule. Do I? I don't know. Whoa. Now because a Moscow mule is so ginger... What is it, ginger beer? Ginger beer-forward, this to what you would get So, I think this is but let's try what's let's try this tequila mocktail, oopsie. Eh. Yeah, it's got that watered down, too much ice has melted You know what? I think I'm on team put Because it's the least, you know what? Vodka's also the alcohol So as you look at these, I think the one thing we've learned, because we agree, is that you got some really you got people jumping on trends, but, as good as some of these very few of them are And I feel like this is less, that this is a genuinely better product than all the rest of 'em, it's just that vodka with something that's fake, do you believe that that's true? In my soul of souls, I believe, Rhett. All right, so, the award-winning, and by award I mean Good winning, non-alcoholic alcohol is vodka! Specifically, Arkay alcohol-free vodka. Thanks for subscribing Stay sober. You know what time it is. Yes. Yes. You made it! You made it! That was for you. And yet, another reference. 26 miles. So, Link, getting drunk I think we bring it up, maybe, Yeah, yep. And we always say, I don't But there it is again. It happened, because I keep when I've told that Right Well, thanks for joining us It was quite an experience. And we will see you on Friday when we take a look back at And then next week marks the New episodes on Mondays, and, hey, on Saturdays we What? Yes, Monday, Wednesday, After this Friday, That's what he said, I'm just reiterating. You know, I want to make Okay. Now, get up and Subscribe to the for the latest and greatest new product reviews delivered sporked.com