I'm always fascinated by The Hunger Games Specifically, its worldbuilding, even more When I think about them for more than a minute, and manipulative the entire institution of How every facet of the Games works to suppress Beginning the series with the 74th annual got to this very extreme point-and so it's know the games weren't always like this. As the tenth Games begin, there's worry Viewership is falling. No one in the districts, and even in the Capitol, And for good reason. These are the early games - devoid of any later define them. These games are advertised for little more And people aren't watching because the games And so, the Capitol is looking for a solution. Not to make them less cruel, of course. But to make that cruelty less real. A more rewarding viewing experience. And by the time we see the 74th Hunger Games, The games have evolved into something elaborate. It's grotesque. And it's a phenomenon. The origin of the games is pretty standard After a collective District rebellion, the power. A warning to the Districts, to know their And what's more powerful than to not simply but to turn it into a national entertainment The concept alone is disturbing, and intentionally When she wrote the series, Suzanne Collins violence as she was flipping between TV channels: In their full iteration, the Games are these But the fully realized Hunger Games aren't mass psychological manipulation of Panem society Every aspect of these Games sows discord between And it makes people's own humanity and that It does this with the addition of, what are And it does so in a unique way for every part HOW DO THE GAMES FUNCTION FOR THE DISTRICTS? First, there's the reaping itself. The method for choosing tributes intentionally The premise for the Games in the first place day, even a peaceful person will attack someone Peeta even says as much. But the Games also rely on people acting out of Desperation, like, say... the conditions of poverty. By allowing people to enter their names in system incentivizes poorer people to be chosen. And why do this? This isn't just added cruelty for the sake It's multiplying the odds that whoever is and hungry - already in a lifelong survival Someone who is less likely to want to challenge, the system that's oppressing them. Someone for whom kindness is too costly. Singling them out, putting a weapon in their hands, and saying: &quot;it's you, or them.&quot; We can see this play out by comparing Peeta [PEETA]: &quot;I just keep wishing I could think of a way to show them that they don't own me.&quot; &quot;If I'm going to die, I want to still be me.&quot; KATNISS: &quot;I just can't afford to think like that.&quot; If Katniss dies, her family is left defenseless. But if Katniss sucks up to the Capitol, and somehow wins, they aren't. It's a forced choice. Compare this to Peeta. Because Peeta was in a slightly more privileged had a little more space to consider his own As the son of a baker, he didn't have to worry Which isn't to say that identity and self reflection we all deserve -- but that's precisely why If people are focused on surviving, they simply Then, the Capitol presents the Games themselves Win, and you and your family are set for life. But the promise of riches is a carrot on a rather than commitment to systemic change. Because treating the districts better as a a district citizen above the others? That's both &quot;Look. This is what happens when you behave.&quot; And so it works. Because of course it does. People do play the Capitol's game with the at all. And the illusion of winning, however small, the horror of it all becomes too real. In interviews, should the conversation turn "Well, maybe you will win! CAESAR: &quot;I'll tell you what, Peeta.&quot; &quot;You go out there... and you win this thing.&quot; &quot;*When* you get home... she'll have to go out with you.&quot; There's also the volunteer system, which is one of many ways Snow overhauled the Games People get picked at random (though I have seen this disputed by some fan theories) -but, technically, they might not actually have to fight. Because, hypothetically, someone else could As we're told in the books, this, unsurprisingly, So when you're picked, the heavy silence is a reminder: someone could save you-but why would they do that at the cost of their own life? A reminder that you're probably doomed, And you are alone. And so, this targets the sense of community *within* districts. Almost as if to make the point that, at the end of the day, They're the only ones who will have their back. What's also key is competition. The competitive nature of the games separates people between one district and another, puts creates a hierarchy within oppressed classes. In this respect, the games are similar to Namely, the fact that tributes are specifically and Firstly, it's a way to show districts how helpless people each others' executioners, but of With the legacy of the Games, every district will have some child at So when tributes do end up killing each other, having carried out violence on their behalf. To the families of "losing" Districts, a great personal loss. At the risk of stating the obvious, this creates No child will grow up exempt from the knowledge and no parent is exempt from knowing they way or another. Not everyone will be picked, but everyone Preparing, mentally, on some level, for the of their televised death. And this would be enough. But, of course, this isn't even the worst of it. It's not just the violence. The competitive element existed from the beginning-still, when the Games started falling in viewership. It's spectacle that elevated it. The goal of the Games isn't just to intimidate the districts, I've seen some fan theories that the reapings would produce the most compelling drama. And it's the spectacle of the Games is its the spectacle dehumanizes everyone involved, and hampers everyone's ability to relate to That is: the kids-appropriately named tributes-aren't turned into products; repackaged, polished, Upon arrival, they are groomed to an approximation given makeovers, stripped of body hair, and, in the books, They're made to be objectifiable, dressed are, probably, the last days of their lives. But the spectacle isn't just dehumanizing, Because it doesn't make these people enemies, It makes them celebrities. And somehow, that's worse. GAUL: &quot;Who will watch the Games if they care what happens to the tributes? SNOW: &quot;Everyone.&quot; Tributes' transformation into "celebrities" as victors-is just more humiliation. And in cases like Finnick's, whose body is sold As if to say:"Look what we can make you do. Look what we can make you become. And we can make you pretend you enjoy it" of power-for the tributes to have to entertain play along, days before their suffering will But they do play along, of course, because They have to leverage their likability - a it gives them the best chance of survival. And so the spectacle, the pageantry, is the Games' biggest asset. In the middle of an even get the dignity of facing it as themselves. They're forced to put on a persona, to hold back what they actually feel, not share their fear You can't be likable if you're scared, If you honor your own humanity, you doom yourself. SNOW: &quot;The lone victor, bathed in riches, would serve as a reminder of our generosity, and our forgiveness. And all of this dehumanization is compounded with the insidious concept of "victors." Victors are the ones who may have survived, but they certainly don't win. Any relief of having won is immediately of the deaths of their peers-including someone And the person themselves is forever changed. Victors come out of the games with PTSD, and And now they've been made, almost certainly, killers. Complicit, now, in the acts of the Capitol. But there's more to it. Because they're not just severed from themselves, they're severed from everyone else. PLUTARCH: &quot;They think she's one of them, we need to show that she's one of us.&quot; Prior to the 10th Games, the winner went back But one of Snow's clever updates was the to, as he put it &quot;tempt a better class of The victor worship works on a couple levels. First, it leads to, as anticipated, some people from poverty. Snow asks Seneca: why have a victor at all? And he explains his reasoning-that having only thing stronger than fear." Hope takes the Games from glorified execution It's unjust, but there's a slim, slim person's favor. Or at least, this is the idea being sold. Just enough illusion of victory for people still one unlikely enough to keep people afraid. And, furthermore, now when those surviving victims from their community. Not just emotionally, but also physically. Victors are made into a whole new class of Sectioned off in a "victor's village," will never have-and it's almost flaunted As if to say: this is what happens when you And so, this is an incredibly easy way to build resentment between see them as belonging to, and representing And though they're sold this idea that after winning, they'll be left alone, Victors are never allowed out of the shadow of the Games. In another twist of the knife, those Victors, already with their physical and psychological knowing full well they probably won't survive. Forcing them to feel at least somewhat responsible for their To meet these very young kids, know them up close, maybe grow to care for them- give them the illusion that they can actually help-- and watch them die. Retraumatizing them over, and over again. HAYMITCH: &quot;He's a Career, do you know what that is?&quot; Careers are another byproduct of both Snow's They're also another weaponization of class, on the poor. This targets the more privileged among the districts, who embrace the games not as a cruel punishment, but as an opportunity for glory. So competing with scared, starved, poor children 2, and 4-who are raised with the idea that These kids are trained in elite academies, and then Given both their advantage and enthusiasm, credibility to the culture of the Games. CATO: &quot;I'm prepared. I'm vicious. I'm ready to go.&quot; GLOSS: &quot;You are our family&quot; But of course, the Careers are just another tragedy. The whole concept of Careers just pits districts out of what are, ultimately, still, victimized Career children are propagandized into believing and the other districts (understandably) resent their wealthier counterparts for being And it's true-Careers do have a comparatively But in being raised to be perfect killers-in spectacle, they're still dehumanized. The life of these kids, in their own eyes and that of We get a harrowing reminder of this during CATO: &quot;I'm dead anyway. I always was, right?&quot; Because no matter how better off they are-they're And the Capitol won't let them forget that. HOW DO THE GAMES FUNCTION FOR CAPITOL PEOPLE? So that's the Districts. For the other half of society, the Games are The games disincentivize at all for the districts. Curbing any risk of national unity. While, at the same time, encouraging the Capitol to have a very So, though it's not nearly on the same level Games dehumanizes Capitol citizens, too. As ABOSAS makes clear, the games without viewership-enthusiastic viewership-mean very little. So it's advantageous not just to get citizens Long term, generationally. Capitol citizens are encouraged to become, in many Which tracks completely for the kind of world they live in. In a hedonistic, overindulgent culture, where &quot;What's this?&quot; &quot;It's for when you're full&quot; &quot;It makes you sick. So you can go on eating&quot; of course entertainment would have And so, as Capitol people become emotionally to their violence, it suppresses their ability And so it disconnects them not just from others, but from their own humanity. And they become just another half of a psychologically This is encouraged in a really clever, manipulative The Games require two seemingly opposing things: citizens to violence, and, at the same time, emotional investment. But only in a particular way that threads SNOW:&quot;Everyone. If they thought the tribute they cared about had a chance at winning&quot; Because Capitol citizens need to be invested enough beats of this television show. But they can't care enough about the well-being So the Games thrive by nurturing a thin imitation And they do so, cleverly, by masking the violence with this They take the descendants of those "ungrateful them in their best clothes, and feed them This twisted generosity is a way for the Capitol they're doing tributes a favor. Effie is a perfect example of this. She represents the complicity of those in the Capitol who earnestly think their involvement is a EFFIE: &quot;That's one of the wonderful things about *this opportunity*&quot; &quot;that even though you're here, and even though it's just for a little while&quot; &quot;you *get to* enjoy all of this!&quot; She's sincere. And that's the worst part. I find Caesar Flickerman's role in this especially intriguing. He is sickeningly bubbly - charming in an CAESAR: &quot;IT'S SO EXCITING!!! AH HA HA HA HA!&quot; He is the ambassador connecting these two worlds, and his charisma is a huge part of why this works-it And this is where it gets really interesting. Because, Caesar *does* does do a lot of work to humanize the tributes- he asks them personal questions, laughs at their comments, he, in many ways, makes them look more charismatic than they actually are. and he even allows them to indulge some sadness that can be milked BUT, if any of them break the spell, actually BEETEE: &quot;If the Quarter Quell were written into law by men, certainly it can be, unwritten.&quot; JOHANNA: &quot;But now? You want to kill me again. Well you know what? F*ck that!&quot; His wall immediately goes up. CAESAR: &quot;Interesting concept :)&quot; "Right then. One woman's opinion.&quot; It is so sinister. He jokes with tributes on TV as if this is all normal, as if they're friends. And then, in the arena, he discusses the horrible things happening as if he's talking about the next day's weather. There's a particular kind of evil about being forced to act friendly, and joke around, With the people who are about to kill you. This is all based in massive, cognitive dissonance. between District and Capitol. Making two parts of the same society as distinct as possible. Where in Snow's early life we see fashion simpler, as the Capitol becomes increasingly excess becomes more ostentatious. So as the class and power gap widens, so do Capitol citizens develop their distinct, and and become increasingly visually distinct And we see this play out as the tributes are introduced. While doing interviews, playing up the reality up in elegant clothes, shiny and lined up They look relatively familiar. But once in the arena, those visual signifiers And tributes become "other" again. HAYMITCH: &quot;You really want to know how to stay alive? Get people to like you.&quot; The false empathy goes even further with the idea of As an incentive to get them invested, wealthy them water, medicine, or weapons. But, of course, only to those who are following have earned assistance by making themselves By sponsoring tributes, Capitol citizens get in the sensationalized violence of the games, "tried to help." The relief of tributes isn't even about them anymore. It's about how it makes Capitol citizens feel. Telling themselves they're good people, this feel-good hit of emotion for them to consume, Doubling down on designing the Games to become addictive, Snow also built a way for people to straight up gamble on them-another In another insult to injury, tributes performances the Capitol to place bets on them. A flippant gesture to their families back in the days leading up to the games. There is no part of these people that can't CAESAR: &quot;I don't know who we will miss more--you, or your brain!&quot; Their faces, bodies, their lives, their deaths. And their emotions. HAYMITCH: &quot;I can sell the Star Crossed Lovers From District 12&quot; KATNISS: &quot;We are NOT star crossed lovers!&quot; HAYMITCH: &quot;It's a television show!&quot; We see all of this in the way the Games are Peeta and Katniss manage to save each other audience a love story to root for. Love, ideally, is something honest, something But like everything else spit out by the machine PEETA: &quot;It was the bond of love, forged in the crucible of the Games, that was our greatest prize&quot; The Capitol craves high drama, and Peeta and Katniss are able to exploit this. Their love-however authentically romantic dramatized for their own survival. Because it can't be enough that they just wanted act of rebellion. The marketable story has to be that Katniss bear to live without him. If it were simply that she cared about someone Games wouldn't qualify? It couldn't be just ordinary human compassion. It had to be something else-a display games, while, at the same time, satiating Because, as Haymitch reminds us, it's still But the exaggerated story that saved Katniss By that human compassion that Panem finds And that's what predicts its downfall. HOW IT FALLS APART: REMEMBER WHO THE REAL The institution of the Games reiterates the SNOW: &quot;They're holding hands. I want them dead.&quot; The idea that if the people you subjugate see on [Who the real enemy is]. They make certain that there is no risk of unity, or solidarity, between any of its people. The hand-holding of the victors in Catching themselves-but nonetheless, we understand WHY this display of Because that would undo the basic premise For tributes to stand together means recognizing And we can't have that. And so, to circumvent anything like this, The Hunger Games target collective empathy from society's youngest. So how does this fall apart? Well, the first cracks People treating each other, despite the circumstances, with real care, and dignity. It starts with Prim. Katniss volunteers to protect her sister-a Compassion-first, for a family member. And that's the first link in a chain of Because there's also Peeta. Peeta who risked-and received-a beating And although she doesn't share his exact feelings, this means something to her. And then, Katniss meets Rue. And Rue reminds her of Prim. And for a moment suspended in time, as if nothing is happening around them, they care for each other, and trust each other. Katniss's love for Prim overrode her own And now, Katniss risks her life in an open the life of a girl she cared about. And it ripples outward. In Rue's name, Thresh spares her. Then, Peeta and Katniss's "mad love" principles of the Games. A crucial moment that signaled, for the first careful rules: love. Even as a sensationalized, half-truth. Then, Peeta gives away part of his winnings And with the social power that they have as Victors, they to honor all the other children who died, allowing them to live. And all of these humanizing acts become a tidal wave. The engine of something unstoppable. With all of the abject horror of the Games, did this not happen sooner? How did this system not collapse? And, well - to a degree, the system was Its power was already shaky by the tenth Games. And even &quot;rebooted,&quot; it does fully collapse within 75 years; And the way they do certainly isn't easy, but The Games and the social system around them as costly as possible. The reason this works, is because empathy is a muscle. A certain amount of power and privilege literally According to some psychological studies, including by in lab settings, "Wealthy people are less suffering of others." But if empathy is a muscle that can be weakened; And that's what we see here. Despite concentrated efforts to suppress it, the After a life under the Capitol's thumb, did in the arena, Lucy Gray still says says: "I think there's a natural goodness built I don't think what she's referring to I think the goodness she talks about is the You could be me. I could be you. That thing that motivates, as Chidi puts it, CONCLUSION While the Games were a show of control and power over the Districts, they also were making manipulative claims about human nature. We see this most explicitly in ABOSAS, through GAUL: "[...]That's humanity undressed. How quickly civilization disappears. All your fine manners, education, background, stripped away in the blink of an eye, leaving a boy with a club who beats another boy to That's mankind in its natural state." The idea, laid out as such, shocked him, but SNOW: "Are we really as bad as all that?" GAUL: "I would say yes, absolutely. But it's a matter of personal opinion." "What do you think?" SNOW: "I think I wouldn't have beaten anyone GAUL: "You can blame it on the circumstances, you made, no one else." Gaul claims the games merely reveal the truth The truth that no one-including children-is really innocent. While this is partially true, if somewhat Especially coming from someone who, yk, builds Gaul just created her own trolley problem. Because of course, if you put desperate people in an arena they win--of course many will fight back. So this is less a revealing truth about humanity Yes-people in survival mode can and will So sure, Gaul's statement is technically, But she's omitting some pretty important information. People in the arena aren't engineered as it gets. And actually, it seems as though even in dire US Army Brigadier General and Army Historian conducted interviews with thousands of soldiers immediately after they had been in close combat in WWII. And what he found, was that only 15 to 20% actually This only started changing in later wars with using language to desensitize soldiers from Not so different from what we see with the Games. As sociologist Randall Collins put it, "Humans and solidarity; and this is what makes violence so difficult." And I have to think of another line Collins "People aren't so bad. Not really&quot; "It's what the world does to them. Like all of us, in the arena. We did things in there we'd never have considered Both Gray and Gaul's claims have some truth-we do make choices, but those choices hardly exist in a vacuum. But you can't take an extremely curated event, and use it to make broad claims about human nature. So, if anything, the intricacy of Panem's and It requires so much calculation, so much force So despite this machine built SO efficiently it can't get rid of it. And there's something else that I think is also good to acknowledge. While the kindness that undoes these oppressive also really important to note that kindness requires intention too. Just because it's a part of us, doesn't mean it's always the easiest or instinctive choice. If, again empathy is a muscle, then every If human beings can be both antagonistic and cooperative social forces around us nurture, and value. Of course, there are individual differences be more compassionate, and some people might you can do about it. But by and large, most people are somewhere And so, I find Lucy Gray's words particularly She's seen it as a minority within the worst-treated District. And now, she's been a part of it in the Games. She's been a victim of the worst of what And yet. At the end of all this, it's still her who delivers What prompted me to write this piece was wanting But as I worked through this, what continues this story is. And it works because it's not naively hopeful--it good all the time; that the "true goodness" THG works as a story *because* it is so unflinching in how And it still manages to say--"this is not the essence of what people are." I admire the series for that. It's a delicate thing to thread, right. Too brutal and it's just cynical grimdark. Too optimistic and it can feel idealistic, or naive. But in the same way that THG doesn't shy to each other, it's very clear about the opposite, too. Something good, and kind persists in the people or &quot;save the day.&quot; Regardless--the kind act and its potential to inspire And if people in these extraordinary circumstances then those of us with our much more ordinary lives, certainly can too.