Do you have issues with your tart crust and are in a right place. I'm going to spill all don't know about so that you can make tart crust just as good as top pastry chefs in the world. Alright so first, let's start share my golden recipe that I use for first we're gonna add all the dry almond flour, powdered sugar and a few Alright.. and give them a good whisk just It's a perfect size... alright cut butter. cold. Now we're gonna mix with a petal tiny pieces and everything looks like a it's not gonna scattered everywhere. So are, this process may take a few minutes some times and see if it's ready. And one that you don't need a blind baking which lay like parchment paper or foil on top first so that the bottom is not gonna until they are done. And for this recipe go. Let's take a look. All right so take a closer look. What I this... it is really sandy and it almost a food processor if you like, this will called sablage in French which means &quot;to are coated with butter all around which light crunches for your crust. And beat side over mixing and stop right away Alright so take a look.. flours. That's the sign it's done. And a thin rectangle. By making it thin like when it's nice and flat it's just easier fridge until the dough is completely the fridge. So quickly let me talk about because it's very important, it's going for tart molds, we have this. Basic, frills sometimes they don't. And we have then we have tart ring. We have smaller personally use this all the time. And ring but not the typical one. The secret to this around. So what they do is that when the steams are going to get released from your tart stays nice and flat and molds like this, you just have to put tart rings, because they don't have a tray directly, it may stick in an oven or for tart rings you have to put something parchment paper or if you have you can bit more flat a little bit more And if you have or if you are willing to I recommend this even more. This is also it's a mesh. you see lots of lots of I explained with this one, all the release from the holes. And it does the stays nice means if you use this one and this one combination. It makes such a beautiful Alright enough talking, I'm going to show let's start rolling a dough. so just cut the amount that you will need. I surface. They don't stick to the dough the dough as much as other flours like the freezer so it's nice and chilled. So lightly and evenly. Dust on your dough dough is a little bit too hard so if you vigorously adding a lots of pressure the is.. you know some people like to hit like gently and slowly wake it up. Push that it's not stick to the table. And gently and repeat this until you feel is ready to be rolled. I always start from the center and roll down. Turn your dough 45 degrees using your Add more flour if it's needed, roll your Turn your dough again and repeat the try touching your dough as less as hand instead. Once you get used to this you can so that your dough is not gonna dough scraper, check if it's not sticked to checking the thickness of the dough and I personally roll my dough really thing less than 0.1 inch because I love the crust make. You can almost see through me that's the way to know if it's a gonna start setting them in molds. I'm dough with a cookie cutter that's wide it in the middle of the pan, check if fingers and as you turn a pan, using your up and let them sink on the bottom. Once the bottom completely, Next, using your fit in the corner and check the And at last trim the edges with a petty surface on top. For this one because bake like this, the bottom is going to crust is not gonna look even. So to avoid your fork, you can put some holes on the special tool but it's not necessarily larger pan, i draped it over in the edges in like this because the dough can After that I make sure the dough is dough like this and make sure it's fit your thumb, press the side evenly and poke with a fork. And that's it. All right let's move on to bottom of your ring so that the dough is rest of the process, you do the exact as you turn a ring like this, let it sink And push with the thumb to check the use both thumbs like this. Trim the edges. And... done. For a large ring, again dust flour on the bottom of your ring and for the rest I do the exact same thing So quickly lift the edges in and and make And next, fold the dough like this and that using your thumb, press the side if lift it up and really make sure it's Finally let's finish with perforated the stripes for the side and attach like it's even thickness and it's fit in a between. And as a final check, Press the Trim the edges. And complete. And for large perforated ones. A few things I wouldl add is that paper or on a silpat you can roll on top like I did. It's just easier. And also if will be much easier and efficient. And before that chill everything in a fridge Do not skip this part or your crust look For regular ovens, bake with 350F size until it's golden brown. For which is 162 Celsius. And now the regular pans have tiny tiny air overall it doesn't look obvious at all with the regular rings look pretty close really like it. And the ones with I like the dots on the side, it looks looks most accurate and even. And for happens if you don't press the corner So make sure that the side is fit all you press with your fingers. And I also compare with the silicone mesh. So as rise up a little bit and you see silpat, make sure to make holes just together just because it's easier on a wanted to let you know that I took those out a get burnt. I personally like to bake bake until the side is golden brown but your preference. Ah.. if you want really toasty flavor, I recommend to bake this button to be notified because on next part which is how to make this beautiful today. I'll show you all the tips and delicious almond cream, how to decorate you liked this video, please let me know and share with your friends who also to do a pie crust version of this, please don't forget to jump on my Instagram and and I'll see you next week. Bye guys!