- [Narrator] This video Click the link below to save And also limited edition Get them quick before they sell out. Link in the description down below. Good morning, Honey. What's for breakfast? The usual. Two caskets of rum, a mug of hard cider, and a full bottle of wine. Oh boy. Oh, I'm running late. I'll have to take it with me. Don't forget your lunch. It's a six-pack of beer, six shots of tequila, and as Ah gee whiz, I'm gonna be smashed today. Enjoy your day of operating I can't believe this is God bless America. Okay, gotta go. (loud crash) I love my life! (animated music) America, the land of top class infrastructure, Ah, yes, beautiful America. But what's the most American The Statue of Liberty, Mount Rushmore, a crazy lady in a mobility Well, what if I told you That's right. When the Puritans arrived they brought a ship packed with beer. George Washington provided his men with a daily cup of whiskey. Andrew Jackson's inauguration party left the White House so trashed that everybody had to be ordered outside. Frederick Douglass said whiskey made him feel like a president. Me too, Frederick, me too. Americans drink at breakfast. Doctors prescribe their In the 19th century, as much as their modern-day counterparts. That's a lot of whiskey. Hey Jerry, how's that report coming along? Already done, sir. I've also organized your and been a father figure to your children. Wait a minute. (sniffs) What's that smell? Have you been drinking at work? No sir, I would never. Well, why not?! Everyone else is doing it. But I got all my work done! You're fired! (glass shattering) (people cheering) Americans drink at work. They drink at barn raisings, Heavy drinking was so normal that it was as American as apple pie. Hi everyone, my name is Get over yourself, Ron. We're all alcoholics. But more and more whether all of this truly Were Americans drinking Well, one group in particular thought the answer to that was yes. You know 'em. You love 'em. Women. (men laughing) Oh, crap, women! Run! (crowd yelling) Hang on! We just want to talk. Women talking in public? That's outrageous. Come on, Fred, you've got yet here you are spending And you, Dr. Spanky, you run the cusp of but what did you discover instead? The sweet, sweet joys of whiskey. That's right, alcohol. It's destroying our families, She's right, she's right. Hang on, men. Don't let them get to you. This saloon is our safe space can't annoy us with reality He's right, he's right, I am a man. And what is it real men do? Take care of their families. I don't know what she's talking about. Do you take care of your family? No. We drink beer, we shoot (men cheering) As America's heavy drinking moral resistance began to arise and women were at the forefront taking matters into their own hands at a time when women doing just They'd had enough of being victim to their husbands' heavy drinking and they were gonna do You're going to what? I'm going to protest. (laughs) (coughs) Oh sweetie, women can't protest. (crowd yelling) Starting in Ohio before women began a crusade against alcohol. They marched through towns and cities, singing hymns, gathering outside saloons, and praying on their knees. Women praying was so terrifying that in some towns schools were On one occasion, firemen were called out to hose down the dangerous praying women. On another, the owner of a beer garden reportedly hold a cannon outside and threatened to reduce Nevertheless, they persisted. They formed the WCTU in They set up homes for inebriate women. They installed water They wrote textbooks for schoolchildren that contained some interesting claims about drinking alcohol. Here's little Timmy. Uh-oh, looks like Timmy's He's taking a small sip of whiskey and Timmy has spontaneously combusted. The end. The women's efforts weren't in vain. In small towns across America, drugstores agreed to stop fulfilling prescriptions for alcohol. Men committed themselves Inspired by the women's moral fervor, some saloon owners closed their doors. The women's crusade and were forcing people to reconsider and more people began to side with the growing temperance movement. Many states had even begun enacting their own dry laws that restricted the sale and use of alcohol. One of them was Kansas where alcohol had been Despite this, many illegal and authorities had done just One woman, disgusted by what she saw, decided she would take the and not just any woman, a sweet old lady named Carrie Nation. Armed with her trustee hatchet and a bag of what she called smashers, she traveled from town but she wasn't there to get smashed, she was there to smash. The men could do nothing but cower as sweet little Carrie hulked out and tore the place to shreds. She went to Kiowa and smashy smashed, Wichita, smashy smashed, to Piqua, smashy smashed. On a couple of occasions, but each time they were like, okay, Carrie, we're gonna let you go so long as you promise to be a good girl and not smash up any more saloons, okay? Screw you pig! (spits) Yeah, I think she's gonna be all right. Smash, smash, smash. Carrie's tactics shocked the other members of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, but she assured them, and this is a quote, &quot;Ladies, you do not know &quot;until you smash, smash, smash.&quot; Carrie became a household name and she hoped her unusual tactics would spread across the country, but unfortunately, many of the women's movements Why? Well, because of this kinda thing. Thelma! I ripped my pants again. Ugh, well, you'll have because I'm going out protesting. What?! I don't know how to sew. What if I burn the house down What? Don't be stupid, Mitch! Look, I've gotta go. Call me stupid? She's the one who's stupid. (glass shattering) (loud explosion) Hey Thelma! Look who's stupid now? See, while the women were out protesting, there was nobody to do and being seen and not heard, and they gradually had to But where the women had a new movement was about to take that ball all the way to Washington, DC. I'm talking about the Anti-Saloon League. The Anti-Saloon League was run by a very sweet-looking old man. But don't let that deceive you. This guy was an evil genius. While the women's movements were interested in a Wayne Wheeler and the Anti-Saloon League only cared about enemy and as a result, they They were able to exploit the And I mean everyone's fears. Here's how they did it. Hello, sir, welcome to the Why don't you introduce yourself? Well, I'm Paddy and I'm And tell me, Paddy, do you drink? Oh yes, I drink a lot. See folks? People like Paddy come here only to end up drunk in the gutter. Don't worry, sir, we're gonna help you. (people applauding) Hey man, you're doing great. I just need you for one more thing. Hey Christian Conservatives, He's a dirty Catholic Irish immigrant who's come to destroy America with his alcohol-fueled debauchery. (people cheering) Workers were told alcohol to keep them subjugated. Factory owners were told alcohol was making their The Black community was warned alcohol was hindering its progress while racists were warned alcohol would turn Black men into brutes. In one of the most confusing totally opposing groups on at least one thing, alcohol was bad. The Anti-Saloon League also something prohibitionists Take this specimen, for example, that warns what will happen Let's see, first you take a drink, you get a little rowdy, okay, you make some new friends. Nice. Then you become homeless. You turn to crime. And but, uh-oh. But the most effective tactic Wheeler used to force was pressure politics. In any election he could, Wheeler very successfully rounded support against any politician who In Ohio alone, he had and the popular Republican and replaced with prohibitionists. Suddenly every politician in America was afraid of Wayne Wheeler. Even those who enjoyed alcohol in private began pretending to be Alcohol is delicious. I mean malicious. Sorry Wayne. I'm really drunk right now. Then it really hit the fan in fighting in the First Anti-German sentiment exploded. Sauerkraut became Liberty Cabbage. German measles became Liberty measles. And dachshunds became See America? You've always been this way. The biggest brewers in and Wheeler saw to it became akin to pro-German treason. The German brewers desperately creating their own propaganda, presenting beer as a healthy beverage, one that you could even give to your kids. As you can imagine, it President Wilson instituted some temporary wartime prohibition measures And with many in the country all that was left was to make it law. One problem was that taxes of the US government's annual revenue, and the government wasn't No problem. The Anti-Saloon League of a new income tax on And just like that, the government was no Prohibition was finally not just as a law but a In 1917 as the House held their final vote on the prohibition amendment, Wheeler was watching from the gallery. You spineless cowards. I know half of you drink yet here you are bowing down Look at him like he's some kind of Caesar. Ugh, don't be so dramatic. I obviously don't think I'm Caesar. Now release the lions. (lion roaring) In the end, prohibition 282 votes to 128. And the states ratified America, a nation obsessed had just voluntarily to choose Whether or not to drink alcohol. We did it, folks! We fixed everything. America will be perfect forever. But you just dissolved and lost tens of thousands No, you idiot. You don't get it. We helped you, idiot. Ugh, I could really go for a beer. Oh no! Immediately after alcohol consumption in America decreased as Americans followed the law and tried not drinking. Man, if we're gonna be we need something else to that delicious beer once did. Well, how about we crack open Hell, yeah, toss it over. Nah, this isn't doing it for me. Let's try knitting. This isn't filling the dark void at all. Wanna play some kites? Ah, screw it. Let's go get some illegal beer. While it seemed like many after the law went into effect, it seemed like just as many Americans intended to keep on drinking and they would go on to to break the new law. Here's a question for you. Do you like breaking the law? Well, shame on you. Or do you like saving Then you should use Honey. Do you ever shop in-store? Of course not. Then you'd have to talk Yuck. You'd rather shop online of your mom's basement. Ah, and better yet, you can save money when you shop online with Honey. Honey is a free browser extension that scours the internet for promo codes and automatically tests them Look at me, I'm buying to increase my chances And look, this magic dancing coin man has a promo code for me. Holy hecking balls! I just saved $18 and 75 cents. Watch out ladies. And guess what? Those of you who've already have found over $247,000 in savings. So what are the rest of you waiting for you big dumb stinky idiots? It's free and can be easily-peasily So get Honey for free today by going to joinhoney.com/oversimplified. That's joinhoney.com/oversimplified. And as always, you'll be Now where were we? Oh yeah, punching Paddy, passing prohibition, and procuring pints. Pretty soon after the the failures of prohibition were already beginning For starters, the details written by none other turned out to be more Many prohibition supporters only wanted to outlaw hard liquor and hoped beer would remain legal, but the Volstead Act That would make Liberty Cabbage illegal. Secondly, the new law that Americans very For example, while the sale and manufacturer of liquor was illegal, drinking it wasn't. And you could also keep before the law went into effect. So many private clubs hoarded that saw them through the Whiskey intended for medicinal and doctors basically became bartenders. It looked as though a full-on as there was a sudden surge Sacramental wines used by were also permitted. Orders for communion wine by millions of gallons. And as rabbis had access suddenly everyone was becoming a rabbi. You had Rabbi Pat O'Leary, But don't worry. I'm sure all these definitely couldn't possibly be selling wine in the back alley after mass. Yep, definitely nothing New products also hit such as Vine-Glo, a brick itself not alcoholic and but the packaging did contain After dissolving the brick do not place the liquid in a jug in the cupboard for 20 days, because then it would turn into a wine. I'll take a thousand. Yes, sir. Now at this point, I want if you will, to the year 2005. You're the coolest kid around and you convince your parents to rent the greatest movie of all time But the movie starts something about not downloading a car. You immediately disregard to download the greatest song of all time, and in the process drain with copious amounts of ransomware. You were breaking the But did anyone come to arrest you? No. That's my point. If no one is enforcing a law is it really a law? And so it was with prohibition. See, the conservative-led were also the kind of people who believed in small government spending. So they passed a law that would be extremely but also didn't wanna spend any of the money required to enforce it. The newly created Bureau of Prohibition only had 1500 agents to That's one agent for in a massive country with and one gigantic land border with Canada. Good luck schmuckos. And all these clever little loopholes people were using to score legal booze were only just the beginning. America was about to devolve into alcohol-fueled criminal chaos. By outlawing it, prohibition had made alcohol And millions of Americans as they found a variety of For example, many Americans Illegal stills for making moonshine were found by prohibition agents from the hills of Kentucky to parking lots in major of prohibition-supporting politicians. Oh come on now, fellas, I'm not gonna have an illegal still. What's this? That's my son Freddie. Say hi, Freddy. Sir, this is obviously an illegal still. How dare you? Hey, what's this in the bathtub? That's bath water. Why does it taste like alcohol? Here's a better question. Why are you tasting my bath water, weirdo? Come on, Freddy. Let's get away from these perverts. To discourage moonshining, the government began adding extra toxins to many of the products which resulted in many cases But alcohol wasn't just Along America's vast coastlines, rumrunners smuggled alcohol A floating supermarket known as Rum Row extended along the East Coast just beyond America's maritime limit. And bootleggers frequently to pick up shipments of booze. These bootleggers could then be found selling their illegal products everywhere even in the halls of Congress. Wow, pop, one day, I wanna work here. Well, son, if you work one day even you could Even President Harding was bootlegged whiskey. And some bootleggers were so successful, they became bazillionaires an ex-cop who became one in the Seattle area from smuggling booze. Unfortunately, all of his Yuck. All of this criminality by copious amounts of corruption. Across the country, armies were persuaded to turn a blind eye. Bootleggers became so rich it was no problem to stuff into the front pocket of the police chief or the mayor or their disapproving mother. And some cops were getting almost as rich as the bootleggers. All right, men, everyone gather in. I've received word that one of you has been taking bribes from bootleggers. Any ideas who? Kevin perhaps, got any thoughts? No, sir. Many police officers came from the same and they weren't about to for knocking back some homemade gin. But all this isn't to say there was no enforcement. Plenty of government officials were doing their best And some unlucky individuals received very harsh penalties such as a Michigan mother who for small-scale moonshining. Cases like these were and only served to make But not just that, the media also loved to cover the exploits of the most famous bootleggers, turning them into national icons. One of the biggest bootleggers was a man named George Remus. Originally a lawyer, he watched as his bootlegger clients paid off enormous fines and proclaimed bootlegging But unlike most bootleggers, and he came up with a See, there were millions produced before prohibition that were sitting in And it could only be sold with government permission So Remus set up his own drug company and bought all the liquor, then he set up his own transport company to transport the liquor, and then he would send to intercept his own transport vehicles, and this would happen. Hey man, this is a stick-up. Oh no, please don't hurt me. I won't hesitate to shoot. Please, I have a wife and kids. Handover all the whiskey, fatty. Hey, fatty isn't in the After stealing all the he could then sell it for big bucks. The perfect crime. Unfortunately, Remus was eventually caught by a goody two-shoes who wouldn't take Remus's bribes. And the government found Remus guilty of violating the Volstead Act 3,000 times. For two years as Remus sat in prison, his wife promised to take and by take care of his money, she meant having an affair sell off everything Remus When Remus finally got out and found his big fancy mansion he reportedly broke out in tears. A few months later, he spotted his wife in Remus hopped in a cab and asked the driver to run her off the road. The driver was like, okay. Then Remus got out of the He immediately handed And his next trial, this time for murder, became a national sensation. Remus defended himself, claiming insanity, occasionally carrying occasionally crying in the corner. But the nation felt bad for him. His wife had screwed him over. And so when after just 19 the jury returned and The court erupted into celebration. And just to remind you, this guy bluntly admitted The American justice system. As alcohol poured into the nation, a lot of it was going to a new type of drinking establishment that had been booming in popularity, a secret drinking establishment. So secret that from the outside, they often looked like so secret that you usually so secret that everybody And once you were in, the Scantily clad flappers, It was a roaring time to be alive. Some publications even posted and bribes galore kept the party going. It seemed like half the police officers and federal agents in cities like New York were receiving kickbacks Hey, what the Kevin Officer O'Hannity, taking Prohibition director Simmons? For shame. Mom? What would dad say? Ask him yourself. Dad would say quit and let daddy earn his tips. Anytime a speakeasy was it seemed like three more And some neighborhoods that one resident began hanging a sign to try to keep party-goers from constantly knocking on her door. It really seemed like the in some places were simply being ignored. And one prohibition agent liked to see which city by timing how long it took for him to be offered a beer after he arrived. His winner? New Orleans where a cab after just 35 seconds. Bravo! Many voices in Congress against prohibition and its failures. To display how ridiculous one Republican congressmen to all come and watch him When he asked a passing police officer if he'd like to arrest him, the officer said no. Hey Wayne, is all this I thought we were gonna but it almost seems like it's worse. What do you mean? Alcohol consumption is down. Well, that may be true but it says here drinking as are arrests for public intoxication, drunk driving, and incidents The general chaos has turned America into a nation of criminals And all these attempts at enforcement are just costing the and eating up judicial time and resources. Release the lions. (lion roaring) The social change and corruption that Wheeler and the Anti-Saloon League had been so eager to prevent, in the cities at least, was surging. See, when something is legal, you can usually regulate and control it, but make that thing illegal and often anything becomes fair game. Legal drinking age, gone. Mandatory closing hours Other unspoken sociocultural gone, gone, gone. In speakeasies, different were beginning to mingle in a The roaring 20s saw a monumental shift in culture, not least of all, because now men and women without being damned for eternity. An outraged Wayne Wheeler that anyone breaking the law was punished. He had even stricter legislation But all this did was clogged with petty drinking violations, and judges began letting so the judges could get that actually mattered, things like murder, and there was plenty of murder, because bootleggers and but prohibition had given an opportunity to make a fortune, mobsters and gangsters. Hey Fat Tony, big news. Hey Fat Joey, what's up? I just got word from Fat Louis here that the government is outlawing alcohol. You know what that means? That means we're gonna be rich. Quick, call Fat Paulie and let's go hijack a liquor truck now. All right. Hang on, let me tell my wife first. Hey Fat Susan, no pizza for Stopped calling me Fat Susan. Oh yeah, forget about it. Rival gangs began to raiding each other's transports, and trying to take control of their city's illicit booze trade. Every city had its top dog. Detroit had The Purple Gang, New England had Charles King Solomon, but no city was as infamous for gang violence and murder as Chicago. The city had multiple gang factions, and at first, they agreed to stay in their own neighborhoods, but the thing about criminals and the agreements inevitably broke down. One day the leader of the was walking along the (machine guns firing) And he was like, &quot;You know, and left for New York, leaving his crime empire none other than Al Capone. Having been knifed in the Capone earned himself the name Scarface. Although interestingly, and preferred to be called Snorky. Snorky was ruthless just like any other but what set him apart from others, the reason he's become synonymous with 1920's gang warfare is this. Most other gang leaders would because they're killing but Capone lived for the fame and kept an extremely high public profile, frequently speaking with and presenting himself as a gracious host, providing Chicago with good times. No need to thank me fellows. I just provide the city while doing away with the competition. You mean you murder people? Whoa, who said anything about murder? I just forced my rivals underground. When you do the thing with the hands, it seems like you're talking about murder. Whoa, look at you with the brains. No, no, I just help So murder? Whoa! Al Snorky Capone was brutal in how he dealt with enemies, but in front of the One day he'd be ordering hit after hit, the next, he'd be signing One day he'd be bludgeoning with a baseball bat for the next, he'd be playing Santa at a nearby parochial school. And no murder could ever Just like every other criminal, he stuffed the pockets of city officials with cold hard cash, and any who did try to oppose being thrown down the steps of Problem solved. The public couldn't get enough of Capone. He quickly became a household name as people romanticized and this became a source of concern for the people at the very top. President Hoover. What is it now, Miles? I'm busy. Well, it's just that Crime. How long has that been happening? Well, since the dawn of man, sir. What? Would you like me to blame No, Miles, I want you to Yes, the Democrats! Now stop wasting my time. Since having a crime lord and winning the hearts of the people probably wasn't a good thing, Hoover personally ordered about this Capone fellow. But before he knew it, President Hoover was also dealing with another major problem. You know 'em, you love 'em. Women. The prohibition era had been and anyone with a brain could see that it really wasn't going very well. One person with a brain was Pauline Sabin, an extremely influential and rich woman who served on the Republican fund-raised for Republican presidents, and had a secret wine She initially supported prohibition but was now disgusted at And she began a new women's movement, this time not for Being the extremely her new organization gained nearly 1.5 million five times that of the Woman's She hated that the WCTU and she began calling for the President Hoover, I and now I want you to end prohibition. Miles, what is it I say when You'll look into it, sir. Oh yeah, that's right. Pauline, I'll look into it. Sabin gave speeches on and helped started growing push among the American people But Hoover, a prohibitionist Then on the 14th of February 1929, something happened that Men thought to be working for Al Capone tricked some Irish at a garage in Chicago, thinking they were there to instead the mobsters were by men dressed as police The Valentine's Day Massacre It was cruel and almost had finally crossed the line. People were sick of the violence, and in part they blamed prohibition for helping to create it. The pressure on Hoover to do something was steadily increasing. Fine. Miles, I want you to put a report together to see if this whole thing is working. You mean the thing where mobsters are becoming increasingly powerful and massacring each other in the streets and everyone is disregarding the law and half our public officials are corrupt and taking bribes? That thing? Yeah, I wanna know if it's Stop wasting my time. Hoover continued to drag but after the Valentine's Day Massacre, he was still determined to do one thing. He wanted Al Capone in prison. Since Capone had been so careful, the FBI were having a hard time but eventually they got him. Capone, we know you're and you've been involved Whoa, look at you with the crazy talk. I ain't done none of that stuff. But you're rich, right? You're damn right I am. And so where'd all the All right, I'll let you but you gotta promise I don't pay my taxes. Whoa! For all of his murdering, the IRS finally got Capone on tax evasion. At his trial, he didn't and spent most of his time Hey Capone, I gotta know, why are you so confident Well, your honor, because I'm who's passionate about working and also because I threatened Luckily at the last minute, the judge replaced the entire that Capone's men hadn't yet got to, and Capone was found guilty. He was sentenced to 11 the harshest penalty ever But even with Capone locked away, the violence in Chicago and in response, the continued to grow. And the final nail in After a decade of booming economic growth under three Republican presidents, the stock market plummeted and America was thrown into the grips of the Great Depression. It was an awful time. One out of every five workers, 15 million people, would lose their jobs. Half the nation's banks failed. Temporary shantytowns were built for the broke and Suddenly very few people had Expensive enforcement didn't seem like that big of a priority when people were having and losing their life savings. And many began to argue would create vital jobs and yet President Hoover doubled down. Here's that report you asked for, sir. Gimme. Prohibition is great. Fantastic news. Sir, it says here prohibition is great at undermining the rule of law in America. Miles, it says the word great. That means good. Now stop wasting my time. The public increasingly shocked at the violence they saw on the streets, the corruption they saw in the government, the general disregard for the law, and now an economic calamity, had had enough. For his reelection, Hoover who promised to finally do Franklin D. Roosevelt. Crowds cheered as FDR made his campaign speeches promising to modify the Volstead Act. And Pauline Sabin, a lifelong Republican, along with her 1.5 million And on election day, it was a landslide. Before FDR had even taken office, Republicans in Congress began the process of passing the 21st Amendment One of FDR's first acts as president was to pass the Beer Permit while the new amendment In 1933 with the passage prohibition was finally over, and the people celebrated like they had just won a World War. Bars and taverns were packed. The WCTU were inconsolable. Wayne Wheeler was dead. And the celebration, particularly in American Heading into the mid-1930s, the effects of prohibition From now on, culture with men and women drinking but in bars and taverns. The crime syndicates that through prohibition remained powerful as they moved on to other things. Some states opted to remain dry with Oklahoma only repealing To this day, there are with some form of prohibition. So what did we learn today, kids? What's the big lesson here? What's the moral of this story that we can all take away and apply to our day-to-day lives? Maybe that you shouldn't on others who don't share them? Maybe that if you tell that's the one thing Or maybe there is no lesson. Maybe we're all just a and we're all doomed. The end. (upbeat music)