Now we are going to catch one sheep... On the pole... there is a loop, made with rope That's how our host is going to catch a sheep We should watch it very closely That's some kind of a trap Now he is searching for the sheep to catch I've asked before The nomads usually catch sheep, that is more than 2 years old Don't come my way! Now he is ready to catch it Oh, oh, oh! He got it! He got it! It run away Wow! WOW~ That's how they catch sheep How he did it? He put his arm into the... Yes, and he cut the main pole with his finger~ The spinal His hand went all the way down, to its back, its spinal And then he cut the main artery As you can see, he holds its mouth, so it can't breath He hold its mouth and in a minute? I think less than a minute...it's done So, this isjust a usual thing for Mongolian people? Oh yes Watching this? Yes Usually they catch 3 to 4 sheep a month Around 40 sheep a year The lady is taking intestines away to boil them She's cleaningthe guts~ Wow~ this is... the sheep intestines being boiled now Looks amazing! I think it will be good even with salt... This is the blood The blood sausage That's blood. Boiled blood~ Traditionally the host gives first piece to a guest You just take it with your hand... eating with hands Just grab it with hands... Um, there some onions inside Koreans have similar soup with blood, tastes the same This is... Large Intestines...i think? This is heart This is heart The sheep heart... I will try the heart It's good This is liver with inner fat This is inner fat they wrap it around liver and eat it like this Wrap it around liver... The meat is not smelly at all This is a broth I've never tried something like this before This is a broth from boiling Intestines... That's what it is Sundae Soup Sundae Soup Wow, this really tastes like a richly brewed ox bone soup. If you put sundae in here and add rice, it becomes sundae soup. Piece by piece This is the sheep we caught yesterday, It's being cut in pieces now Our host family will cook the dish called 'Khorkhog' This is cow...feces...cow dung. It's been put it in the brazier here and light a fire with it The stones should be heated up. Put the cow dung in like this... The stones are already there! Wow~the smell! The smell! The smell of meat It's fascinating The smell is absolutely amazing Wow~ It smells really good Isn't it amazing? Doesn't it smell awesome? Are you looking forward to it? I'm really looking forward to it too Wow, really... I can't say anything else but wow Oh, so they are closing the lid This way the heat can't escape... So now all you have to do is wait until the meat is cooked. Wow it's really hot inside It's so hot~ It's like a sauna inside That's amazing I came to help cut onions, but they just cooked everything right away~ The smell... As soon as I put the stones on, the smell...wow I have this smell on me now The meat smell? Wow, the meat smells so good This is really original and wild... This is the original Khorkhog Oh, it's suddenly pouring rain. Wow! Wow~ This is how Khorkhog is made That looks good! It is good It's raining and the mood is nice A glass of makgeolli? Makgeolli The visual is crazy It's the right time to eat Khorkhog in this weather They're taking all the stones out. Yes! And you can do hot stone massage with that. Do you usually just throw those stones away after cooking? Yes Here, pick up a hot stone. You can take a small one If there is a place that hurts... You can put it there Like if your back hurts, you can put it in there This is from the shoulder part The shoulder part we all share Everybody shares the shoulder part Cause it's called 'Doeg' In Mongolian it's called 'Doeg' This word means &quot;70&quot; And then we have to share it with 70 people (speaking Mongolian) They've said it's meat from a shoulder (speaking Mongolian) It's really tasty I can't compare with what we had before at the restaurant This is the real one Yes This one is really tender This is really good Not smelly at all Oh no! That's crazy how good it is! I think it's the best lamb I've ever had. No lie, wow! People won't believe me if I say this is lamb They won't believe I should try potato too It's my first time eating it...but It's incomparable to what we had at the restaurant in Ulaanbaatar. (Compared to this) the restaurant's Khorkhog was awful When I think about what we had at a restaurant... Wow... that Khorkhog at the restaurant was not good at all. It was way too oily with a lot of fat parts I didn't know that Khorkhog... can be THAT good I want to try it like this This one piece... with kimchi Put kimchi on one piece of meat I want to try it like this Is it good? Yeah Our host lady is trying meat with komchi too How is it (kimchi)? She just had kimchi... How is kimchi? She likes it~ Not bad I think he likes it...He keep eating kimchi~ She said it's a bit more sharp than kimchi, that is sold in Mongolia We have to eat all of it~ Got it~ I think he likes it~ He likes kimchi~ Don't worry, we have one more can of kimchi~ (Yannie)Mom, I'll try it too~ I didn't expect them to eat kimchi that well Take a bite with your teeth (Seah)Kimchi is popular today Kimchi is surprisingly popular The guide dips it in kimchi soup