A plane plummets out of the sky, a speed runner inexplicably What the? What the?! And an election All because of the same that permeates the universe. On May 18th, 2003, voters in In many regions, voting something the Belgians had for over a decade. But the system had a backup. Each voter would insert a and make their selection on screen. Their vote was saved both to the computer and the magnetic card, which they dropped into Late that night, as the one of the election with the results from Schaerbeek, a municipality in central Brussels. Maria Vindevogel, a little known candidate with her own party received more votes than was mathematically possible. They knew this because of the way the preferential voting system works. So they took out the magnetic One by one, they fed each of them through the machines again, and after several hours, The vote totals for every candidate were exactly the same as before, except for Maria Vindevogel. In her case, the recounted number of votes was less than the original by 4,096. So what went wrong? How had her original tally been inflated by over 4,000 votes? Computer experts were brought on the software. They combed through the They got the computer that had made the initial erroneous tally and tested the hardware again and again, but they could not replicate the error. Everything about the hardware seemed to be in perfect working order. And this left only one and it is seriously weird. The clue comes from the Vindevogel received. 4,096. Computers work using binary, each corresponding to a power of two. So somewhere inside the computer was a string of bits representing the number It started the day all zeros, and then as each vote for her came in, it would increment by one. Physically, this is done by and turning it off for zero. What's remarkable about the number 4,096 is that it is exactly a power of two. Two to the power of 12. That is the 13th bit. So for Maria Vindevogel to only one thing needed to happen. The 13th bit had to flip But why would that happen? Computers work precisely unless we want them to, or do they? Looking into the problem, Belgian investigators found from big computer companies In 1978, Intel reported some in their 16 kilobit dynamic Ones would spontaneously flip to zeros with no apparent cause. The problem turned out to the chip was encased in. With the demand for semiconductor in the 1970s, a new manufacturing on the Green River in Colorado. Unfortunately, this site of an old uranium mill. Radioactive atoms made and then into the ceramic Intel scientists investigating the problem found that even trace amounts in the ceramic were In their DRAM, memory was or absence of electrons The alpha particles emitted were energetic and ionizing enough to create electron hole If an alpha particle is struck it could create a large causing electrons to flipping a one to a zero. This is known as a single event The error is soft because the The bit has changed, but you could erase it and Investigators exposed the with different levels of activity. And just as you'd expect, they found the number of bit with the number of alpha particles the chip had been exposed to. The reason this problem was because chip components to the point where a single alpha particle could produce enough charge to flip a bit. Immediately, these findings Before the paper was published, it was widely circulated in the industry. And as a result, chip manufacturers were a lot more careful to when producing their Therefore, the bit flip 4,096 extra votes wasn't caused by natural So where did it come from? After Henri Becquerel with uranium in 1896, scientists sought a way to measure it. How radioactive were different materials? And one way to do this is When it's charged, the leaf is repelled and you can measure the amount of charge by the angle of the leaf. Now, if ionizing radiation it rips electrons off air molecules, creating positive and negative charges. Opposite charges are discharging it over time. The higher the level the faster the device discharges. In 1910, Theodore Wolf to the top of the Eiffel Tower. Since radioactivity was found in the soil and rocks of earth, he the radiation would be just a few percent of the ground radiation. Instead he found only a slight decrease. In 1911, Austrian physicist Victor Hess decided to take this experiment further. Literally. He loaded electric scopes into the basket of a hydrogen balloon. In his first two flights, he observed the same thing as Wolf. Up to an altitude of 1100 meters, both trips revealed no compared to the values But the next year, he up to an altitude of 5,200 meters. And here he discovered While there was an for the first several hundred meters, above one kilometer or with increasing altitude. At his maximum height, the level of radiation than it was on the ground. The radiation appeared to be but from the sky. Hess scheduled one of his balloon flights during a solar eclipse. And as the moon passed he carefully watched his instruments. But the readings were unaffected. Even with the sun half covered, the level of radiation was the same. Since no influence of the eclipse on the penetrating radiation was noted, we conclude that even if should be of cosmic origin, it Victor Hess had discovered cosmic rays. High energy radiation from space. But what were these rays exactly and where were they coming from? Well, today we know they as many suspected, but particles. Around 90% are protons, 9% are helium nuclei, and Some of them are from the sun, but they have comparatively low energy. High energy cosmic rays moving very close to the speed of light come in our own galaxy and in others. And the highest energy particles are thought to come from black holes, including the super massive black holes at the centers of galaxies. But it's hard to pin down exactly where cosmic rays come from because as charged particles, they're deflected by So they can wind their for billions of years. A cosmic ray detected had an energy of 51 joules. That is a single subatomic particle with the energy of a baseball going a hundred kilometers per hour. For obvious reasons, it was But primary cosmic rays like these don't make it down to earth's surface. Instead, they collide with air molecules around 25 kilometers above the ground and create new particles like pions. These collide and decay into protons, muons, electrons, which in turn collide in one long cascade. So from a single primary cosmic ray, comes a shower of particles It is one of these suspect struck a transistor flipping the 13th bit from a zero to a one and giving Maria Vindevogel But how often do things like this happen? In 1911, Charles Wilson made it possible to see the cosmic rays all around us when he perfected his cloud chamber, an enclosure with super When a cosmic ray passes it ionizes the gas into tiny droplets on the ions, revealing the path of the particle. Alpha particles, helium nuclei, leave short thick tracks electrons leave long skinny trails. In 1932, Carl Anderson identified a trail that looked like it was but in the applied magnetic field, it curved in the wrong direction. Implying it had a positive charge. Anderson had found the It was the first confirmed Four years later, also he discovered the muon, For his discovery of the positron, Anderson was awarded the Nobel He shared the prize with Victor Hess, the man who discovered cosmic invisible particles that most of us are oblivious to. This is possibly the rarest thing to ever happen in a video game. In 2013, user DOTA_Teabag was on the console. In the level Tik Tok Clock, he suddenly up warps - [DOTA_Teabag] What the? - [Player] Did you get invisible wall? What? - [DOTA_Teabag] No, that I've ever seen though. - [Narrator] The move and it seems like a newly that could give speed runners and edge. User PenandCook12 put out a $1,000 bounty for anyone who could But so far, after six years, no one has been able to. The best explanation is that a cosmic ray caused the glitch. It's been shown that a single bit flipped in the first bite of could have caused the effect. On the main level, the But if you flip the last one to a zero, it changes his vertical position. And just by chance, this new height coincides PenandCook12 wrote a script at the right moment the same up warp. This is a particularly visible bit flip, but the truth is cosmic rays all the time. - An upset there, transient of these devices and we functional interrupt. So an entire process can hang. So a blue screen of death that you get might actually have been - [Derek] When people see could that be caused by a cosmic ray? - Absolutely. - These days, there are a number of ways computer chips are made resilient like error correction code or ECC memory. But you can't totally prevent In 1996, IBM estimated that one bit flip occurs per month. And the main culprit seems to be neutrons created in the shower of Starting in 2009, Toyota recalled millions of vehicles due to the problem of - We were in the fast and he said that the car and he couldn't bring it to a stop. - Many speculated that in the electronic control So much so that NASA was called in to help with the investigation. But it turns out, cosmic rays NASA identified as the main causes, sticky accelerator pedals, poorly fitted floor drivers pushing on the accelerator thinking it was the brake. But cosmic rays have caused especially at higher elevations. Los Alamos National Labs located is constantly dealing with neutron induced supercomputer crashes. So the software auto saves have been installed If you go even higher, like climbing up to cruising you can see the radiation on a Geiger counter. To .5 microsieverts per Up to one microsieverts Over two microsieverts And over three microsieverts per hour at even higher altitudes At cruising altitude, this increases the chance by 10 to 30 times. This isn't critical if it but what if it occurs On October 7th, 2008, an Airbus A330 took off Just over three hours into the flight, the plane suddenly pitched down diving 200 meters in 20 seconds. Inside the plane, everyone of acceleration. It would have felt like - The G-Force was enough, even with our three point harness to lift us both out of the seat and push us forward as well. - Minutes later, the plane 119 people on board were injured, many from bumping their So the pilots decided to in Learmonth. In the investigation that with the first air data or ADIRU for short. This computer supplies angle of attack and altitude. The way it supplies each of is in a 32 bit binary word. The first eight bits identify and bits 11 to 29 encode the actual data. What seems to have happened is that a bit flip in the first eight bits meant altitude information was mislabeled as angle of attack information. Inside the cockpit, alarms went on for over speed and stall simultaneously, something that should be impossible. But the plane nose down sharply was a stall, throwing passengers Investigators looked into software bugs, software corruption, a hardware fail, physical environment factors and electromagnetic interference. But each of these possibilities based on multiple sources of evidence. The other potential triggering event was a single event effect resulting from a high striking one of the integrated circuits within the CPU module. One of the challenges is that they are soft errors. They don't leave a trace, but interestingly, the when there were no specific regulatory or aircraft manufacturer requirements for airborne systems to be resilient to single event effects. With the space shuttle, redundancy was built in from the start. For navigation and control, simultaneously running identical software. If one computer had a soft error, the other three would overrule it. And using this setup, they could also track the On one five day mission, STS 48, there were 161 separate bit flips. Above the atmosphere, sometimes you can even see them. - Once in a while you and you're not asleep yet. And if you wait a little while, you occasionally will And we think it is heavy particles or individual bursts of that are either going or going through the optic nerve. And they, the way that your body registers is amazingly enough by in one of your eyes, just to remind you that you of not only our sun, but that is radiating at you. I picture back to the first astronauts who must have closed their and gone, &quot;I'm not going &quot;because no one's told me about it. &quot;I'm not talking.&quot; I can just imagine the &quot;Hey, I am, &quot;sometimes I see flashes of light. &quot;Do you see flashes of light?&quot; And then it's, &quot;Oh, we &quot;Oh, okay, well, that's all right then.&quot; (narrator laughing) - [Narrator] For missions protecting electronics is critical. - If a single bit of information controls a critical let's say your thrusters, and that goes from a one to or vice versa, you could lose the mission. - [Narrator] That's why the computer on the Perseverance Rover is 20 years old. It's a power PC launched in 2001 with only 256 megabytes of Ram and two gigabytes of flash storage. But it is radiation hardened, meaning the design, materials, are built to withstand of an ordinary computer. It's been used on over going back to 2005. - In fact, when we first started years ago, the way we did it, we just simply stuck an in a beam line where we on the planet and look You can kind of figure and try to undo that. So you don't get to the because a spacecraft is basically unrecoverable. - As the Voyager 1 spacecraft one of the ways we could in the flux of cosmic rays it experienced. Although on earth, the and the solar wind are further out these same particles The heliosphere. It helps deflect and slow cosmic rays from interstellar space protecting the solar system But the sun has an 11 year activity cycle. So this protection fluctuates. The flux of cosmic rays when the sun is active In the history of our planet, cosmic rays may have flipping bits, not in electronics, but in the genetic codes providing some of the variation on which natural selection acts. Maria Vindevogel is now a member of the Belgium Chamber of Representatives, elected by people, not a particle, but her story is a reminder winding their way through the universe for millions or billions of years. One of which might at any moment, change your life by passing and cra.... (electronic disturbance) Discovering the origin of cosmic rays or where 4,096 extra votes came from or how to protect the requires problem solving, And the best way to keep your is to solve a diverse range of problems, which you can do with the Brilliant is a website and app that teaches you STEM concepts They have courses on topics to special relativity. Two courses I would recommend are computer memory and Brilliant have really upped So instead of reading about algorithms, you're taught how to Brilliant engages you in active learning. Instead of telling you the right answer, they allow you to figure with plenty of helpful hints And for viewers of this channel, Brilliant is offering 20% to the first 200 people to sign up. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. I'll put that link down So I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.