Hello everyone, I am Alin. This is a half-submerged county seat in Zhongxian County, Chongqing, located in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River. More than 20 years ago, the Three Gorges Reservoir began to impound water. The part of the county seat along the river slowly sank to the bottom of the river. Today is a rainy day. The Yangtze River in the rain and fog at 9 o'clock in the morning . A boat on the water slowly came into view. It was Yuzhongke 2180, the last water bus on the Yangtze River section in Zhongxian County, Chongqing. Most of the passengers on the boat were old people in their 60s and 70s. They were vegetable farmers along the river. They crossed the Yangtze River by boat every morning. Selling vegetables in the city is their main or even only source of income. The deck is filled with farmers' vegetable baskets, shoulder poles and backpacks. Driving on the Yangtze River is like a mobile vegetable market day after day, rain or shine. This time I recorded this special event on the Yangtze River. The market and the stories behind them set off at 5 a.m. the next day to Yangdu Town Pier. This is the departure station of Yuzhongke 2180. How much does this kind of garlic cost per kilogram? It is a number (press). Ah, how much does a small handful cost? A small handful costs two or three yuan ($0.3/$0.4). Two or three yuan . Oh wow, hahaha. I didn't expect this garlic to be so heavy. It must weigh more than thirty kilograms. Two of them. (Bamboo basket) Two (bamboo baskets) add up to sixty or seventy pounds. Yuzhongke 2180 departs from Yangdu Town at 6:30 every day. The cheapest fare is 5 yuan ($0.7). The whole journey is 12 yuan ($1.7) on the way . It will stop at several stations on the Yangtze River and arrive at Xishan Pier in Zhongxian County around 8:30. Although the land distance to the county is only more than 40 kilometers , this is the only means of transportation for farmers along the coast to sell vegetables in the city. There are also buses from various villages and towns to the county. On the one hand, the fare is expensive, and most importantly, there is no place to put the baskets and poles , which are their livelihood. Boating is the only option for these vegetable farmers and grandparents. The full boat ticket is 12 yuan ($1.7). The farmers along the coast have to get up early in the morning to prepare for the day. To sell vegetables , you have to carry vegetables and other goods for a long time on the mountain road, from the high village down to the riverside dock. The farmers, grandparents, have not had breakfast. They get up very early in the morning . After arriving at the county town, they are still busy selling vegetables . A hot free breakfast has been prepared for them. They are about to arrive at Zhongxian County. Don't rush and walk slowly. The vegetables grown by farmers are fresh and affordable. Every day, before the passenger ship docks, there are many people waiting at the county pier to buy today's fresh vegetables at the pier. A lively morning market is formed on the long steps. How much does it cost per catty? ($0.28/kg) Sweet Thiene Good Grandpa. How do you sell these vegetables? One dollar, one dollar, five dollars, one dollar, five one pound. ($0.4/kg) One pound Oh, these loquats are sweet. How do you sell these loquats ? Four dollars per pound ($1.1/kg) Are they picked fresh in the morning ? Are they picked fresh in the morning ? How are these bamboo shoots picked in the morning sold? Yeah, three yuan, five yuan, five yuan a pound ($0.98/kg). The basket of vegetables that grandma brought has been sold out. Whose garlic is mine? How do I sell it? One yuan, five bucks a handful ($0.2) How much does one of grandma's (goose) eggs cost? Ah, &quot;Three kinds of three kinds of three&quot;. How do you sell this for four yuan ($0.56) ? Two yuan ($0.56/kg). Two yuan a pound . The morning market by the pier is the &quot;first place&quot; for vegetable farmers to sell vegetables . They walked up the road to the main road in the county town and set up a street stall there for a while. Ask him about this. It's very sweet. Come and get a pocket. The crowd of people buying vegetables gradually dispersed . The vegetable farmers picked up their shoulder poles and carried their baskets on their backs and set off again to the old city farmer's market. Go in the direction of the market and sell along the way. Stop when there is business. There are many stalls around the farmer's market. Vegetable farmers came here by boat early in the morning. There are also farmers from the surrounding area who come to the city with their own mountain products to sell. This grandma I am very interested in my GoPro. Grandma eats. Where does she eat? We have a noodle shop downstairs where you can eat small noodles . You only eat noodles. Yes, the noodles are quite delicious. Hahaha. Hello, how do you sell this spinach? Two yuan per catty ($0.56/kg) Uncle, this is the county farmer's market. The vegetables sold are fixed stalls. There are more types of vegetables and the prices are also expensive , so many local residents choose to buy vegetables from farmers every morning. Boss, how do you sell this vegetable? Three yuan , three yuan per catty ($0.85/kg) Oh, thank you , boss. How do you sell these oranges for two yuan? Two yuan ($0.56/kg) Zhong County is located in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River in the east of Chongqing, 180 kilometers away from the main city of Chongqing. In ancient times, this place was It is called Linjiang County. As the name suggests, it is a town facing the Yangtze River. Later, Emperor Taizong of the Tang Dynasty named it Zhongzhou in memory of the loyalty of the generals in history. This is the only place in China named after &quot;loyalty&quot;. The county seat of Zhongxian County is layered on top of the hillside on the bank of the river. This is also a typical mountain city style along the Yangtze River. After the launch of the Three Gorges Project, the county moved upward as a whole. Most of the original old city remained underwater forever , while the other half of the county became the only county town in the Three Gorges Reservoir area that preserved its original appearance . Walk through Zhongzhong The old town of the county seems to have gone back in time to the 1990s. The entire county is built along the river and close to the mountains. It has a unique street layout and multi-dimensional building distribution. It is a mountainous street with a very characteristic of Bayu. Walking in the mountainous streets and alleys makes people unconsciously think of a &quot;magic mountain city&quot;. &quot;Chongqing, known as &quot;Chongqing , is built according to the terrain, so the straight streets here have few uphills, downhill slopes and steps, which are the roads that people in the mountain city often take in their daily lives. The history of Chungju Old Town exceeds 2,300 years. After the Three Gorges Reservoir area impounded water, it was fortunate that this This street of ancient buildings above the flood line has become the only remaining old street in the entire Three Gorges Reservoir Area . Hello, grandma, I want to ask how old this building is. I want to ask how old this building is. It's been decades. It's a lot. How many years, how many years ? This house is 40 years old . We moved here in 1982. We moved here in 1982. Thank you. The part on the mountain here is not flooded. Before it was flooded, it should be considered a mountain. Ha, yes, it is a mountain. It is by this river, which is the current river, and there is still a city. Anyway, it is very far away. Think about more than 100 meters (Ku) The water level in the area rose) more than 100 meters, yes, more than 100 meters. At that time, when it was more than 100 meters, it was still the river (Yangtze River). At that time, there were many people doing business on the riverside . It was a dock. Oh, it was a dock. Before, it was the main river of the Yangtze River ( The routes come and go, especially the Fengdu Ghost Town. There were a lot of foreigners traveling at that time . That was a long time ago , in the 1999s. Anyway, the earliest tourist place in the 1980s and 1990s was called Fengdu Ghost Town. The Jialing River you nominated at that time means that the current Jiuzhaigou Valley may still be behind. For example, the current tourist attractions are just behind. You see, the Fengdu ghost town was very famous at that time. Many foreigners went there. Foreigners, come here. They all sit down from the Yangtze River and take that cruise ship. There was no high-speed rail at that time. If we didn't take this mountainous road, it would be too far, too far and unsafe (walking on the mountainous road). The foreigner's head was spinning, so he said he would take this one. When you come on this cruise ship and swim around this and that, there used to be this Little Three Gorges. The Three Gorges and the Little Three Gorges on the Yangtze River. The Little Three Gorges are very beautiful, indeed very beautiful . How old is grandma? She's in her eighties. She's over eighty. She's going to be eighty-three. 83 years old. ) I went to Chongqing (hospital) for a checkup. I couldn't hear (my ears) . I couldn't hear. I was a little deaf. I understand. We came from Chongqing. Chongqing . Chongqing. Did we come to eat ? We haven't eaten for a while. We went to eat. Hey, eat quickly, grandma, eat, eat, let's go, okay, grandma, bye, bye , bye, bye, bye, bye, grandpa, hello, I want to ask what this is. &quot;Eighty-fourer&quot; Eighty-fourer plays cards . Hey, yes, yes , everyone in Zhong County plays this kind of game. Yes, yes, eighty-four children. It has 84 cards (cards). One person has 28 tiles, which are also relatively small. Hey, isn't it the time of heaven, earth, people and heaven, nine, earth and eight ? At 2 o'clock in the afternoon, the vegetable farmers, grandparents, are returning to the passenger ship one after another. It is different from the early morning. At this time, there are empty vegetable baskets and backpacks stacked on the deck. 14:30 The ship sails back. Grandpa , all the vegetables are sold out. The vegetables are all sold out. I am here to sell them. Those who sell goose eggs are all sold out . It's pretty good . Hahaha. It's been busy since the early morning until now. The grandparents are very tired and fell asleep on the boat. The empty bamboo basket means that today's business is good. Breaking down today's income, the total sum is actually only one hundred yuan ($14). Yuzhongke 2180 travels to and from Yangdu Town and the county dock every day. It sails 363 days a year. The remaining two days are New Year's Eve and New Year's Day. The captain, the &quot;last ferryman&quot; on the Yangtze River, has been sending vegetable farmers to sell vegetables in the city for more than 20 years. The captain's father was also a captain. In 1997, there was heavy fog on the river . The boat his father drove collided with a cargo ship and he died that night. The captain took over his father's job at the age of 18. It was 27 years ago that there were other passenger ships on this route. After the expressway was opened to traffic in 2016, the passenger volume of water transport dropped sharply and it was difficult to maintain the daily operation of passenger ships. By 2020, there were only one passenger ship on this Yangtze River route. There is only one passenger ship, Yuzhongke 2180. Now this &quot;last water bus&quot; is like a silent agreement with the farmers along the coast. Every day, the vegetable farmers are waiting on the shore , and the passenger ship will definitely come and pass by for more than two hours. The voyage took each farmer to the passenger ship and returned to the dock of Yangdu Town. On the return trip, we drove along the path in the village along the Yangtze River. The story of the vegetable farmers is not over yet . Tell me, I see you look familiar. You are also on that boat . We are on a (boat), so you don't rest when you come back. You have to go to the fields again. Oh, it's so hard to pick up corn. Oh, walk slowly, grandma . I said, walk slowly, grandma . Well , many of the vegetable farmers on the boat were carrying tangerines on their backs. They are also called &quot;citrus&quot; locally. The flesh is plump and juicy. Chongqing is one of the largest citrus producing areas in China. The history of growing citrus in the Three Gorges area of the Yangtze River is more than 4,000 years old and has a humid climate. Under the conditions, there are also rich varieties of citrus here, such as navel oranges, spring oranges, fragrant oranges and blood oranges. Zhongxian County has a citrus planting history of more than 2,000 years and is known as the &quot;Citrus City of China&quot;. About 220,000 people in Zhongxian County are engaged in citrus-related industries. Hello, is this variety called the rose orange? The rose orange is very delicious . Thank you for watching. See you next time.