High-level event The highest-level event. Kyushu's most powerful miracle doctor, the True Dragon Holy Hand, appears in Jiangcheng. The Dragon God has ordered the four guardian dragon kings of heaven and earth, black and yellow, to be on standby immediately . Ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, external beast . We also need to find Master Shengshou. Why should we condescend to visit Jiangcheng in person and dare to search for the True Dragon Saint Hand? I am disrespectful to Lord Holy Shou. I swear an oath to you . Lord True Dragon Holy Hand, your medical skills are boundless. My dragon temple can support the backbone of this country. There are countless Lord Holy Hands among them. Back then, I was surrounded and killed by the five powerful men in the West and was seriously injured . It was Lord Holy Hand who gave me an injection to keep me alive. Only then can he counterattack in one fell swoop and push the Dragon Temple to the position of global supremacy. Remember, without the True Dragon Saint Hand, there would be nothing. The top priority of the Dragon Temple is to find Lord Holy Hand as soon as possible. The Nantianmen war is urgent. Lord Holy Hand is irreplaceable. Xuan, you are in charge of this matter . Call all the satellites in the organization to find Lord Holy Hand . Lord Holy Hand, I kindly ask you to take action to save the old Wang family in Jiangcheng. My family members , I have retired long ago and my lineage of true dragons has disappeared. There are only good wives and husbands in the world. Why do you ask for this kind of life of fighting and killing? I have long been tired of it. Humph, sign and get out. I don't know what Xiaorui likes about you. How can you be worthy of a loser like you? Xiaorui wants to divorce my cousin, aren't you? I made a mistake about who your cousin is. What I despise the most is you, a piece of trash like you . You are just a dog that Xiaorui kindly picked up. Don't take yourself too seriously. It's impossible for Xiaorui and I to really love each other. This must not be what he means. This is what I mean. What are you waiting for? Ji Heng, isn't it just for the Gao family's money that you become Xiaorui's dog licker ? Hurry up and sign your name and get out of here. You and I got to know each other. This 10 million is considered as compensation for you. Let's get together and part ways, okay? Is the relationship that has lasted three years and three years worth such stinky money in your heart? Ji Heng, don't be so fucking shameless. Ji Heng, I always thought you just didn't have the ability . At least you are someone who can afford it and let it go. I'm very disappointed in you when I think of you being so persistent. I understand. You can let me sign the contract, but you have to return the jade ring to me. He is ours. The inheritance of the true dragon lineage can only be worn by my wife , but you don't deserve it. From now on, we have nothing to do with each other. Gao Rui, please don't regret it. Write down a pen as evidence. From now on, our friendship is severed . If you want to leave, you can have me searched. Who knows if you have stolen anything from my house ? If there is no soft food in the future, I can't leave a backup plan. Do I need to do it myself? I'll search his money. I didn't get a single point. I only took things that belonged to me. How could I get money ? This is not the jade ring my sister brought. I 'm still arguing that Miyagi, the master's treasure, is the one you can touch. How can you, a poor beggar, have such a good thing? After three years of hard work in my Gao family, I wanted to pack it away before I left, right? It smells so bad. It seems that this jade ring can grow so old. I won't give it to you even if I break my son. It's so boring to call me dead. Mom won't teach you how to be a human being . I'll teach you how to be a human being myself . Oh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, let go of your hand. If you dare to hit my son, I'll follow you. Come on , come on, Qiao Rui , come on, Jun He, this lunatic, he beat your brother to death . Why ? Maybe how could Ji Hang do such a thing? The phone call was just right. Why is it impossible? He just hates you for divorcing him, so he wants to take revenge on your mother. Give the phone to Jing , ah, otherwise they would have died if we were husband and wife. Ji Heng What on earth do you want to do, crazy son , bastard, Ji Heng, you old lady, you are waiting for me to kill you, but you still haven't stretched your arms. There is no news about Mr. Hand at the moment. Why don't you go find it? My dear , I think you need a cup of top-quality cat poop coffee. I deliberately didn't add sugar so that you won't feel the pain of a failed marriage. I don't like the smell of cat butts, please. How many times have I said this has nothing to do with cat feces and is almost as meaningless as Jiang Cheng? My real dragon jade ring is broken and needs exquisite chalcedony to repair it. As long as we can find exquisite chalcedony, we can pay any price. If necessary, we can sell all the industries in Jiangcheng. If you want to give up the industry in Jiangcheng , there are tens of billions of funds. That's such a shame. You know how important this shift is to me. You're the boss. ss From now on, the line of Zhenlong skills will be handed over to you, master, master. Sorry , the situation is urgent . I, Mr. Du, why did you find me here? I came uninvited. Please , Mr. Ji, don't blame this. This is the eldest lady of the Wang family in Jiangcheng. It was his grandfather who was critically ill. Don't say what I said a second time. Du Ping, how similar are you to Master Wang? Friendship does not mean that you can point fingers at me, and no more mortals are allowed to come here in the future. Mr. Ji, don't blame Grandpa Du. I begged him to bring me here. As long as you are willing to save my grandpa, I can do anything. No need, boss. You may be disappointed. There is no news about Linglong Chalcedony in Jiangcheng. If you can't find it, keep searching until you find it. As long as you are willing to save my grandpa, I will give it to you with both hands . I will find the best doctor in Jiangcheng Hospital. You must not let Xiaozhe's arm become useless. The signal from the Master 's Holy Hand disappeared in this building. Search for me to ensure the safety of adults . Who are you? What are you doing? This is a private venue, the Dragon Temple. Why are you avoiding the Dragon Temple when you are idle? I see you are just traveling around and telling lies about where Lord Holy Hand is. Grandpa, my grandpa, what's going on ? We've done our best. Let's prepare a nurse. Don't worry, the old man can also save people with traditional Chinese medicine . Hahaha, how many silver coins can you take? Who are you trying to fool? Get out of here, liar. It's really boring. I need a fresh environment. Idiots, shut up. Miss Wang, if your grandpa is stabbed to death, our hospital will not be responsible. Grandpa, grandpa, what happened to my grandpa? He was infected with Zhenguo's strange poison. I took the Ghost King 13 injection and it will naturally ease in ten minutes. Remember not to touch him. Hum Jianghu. It's of no use to you, liar , huh? Grandpa, grandpa, nurse, hurry up and go to the emergency room. Grandpa, there is no need to resuscitate you. Yes, it was you who indiscriminately injected the needles. That's why Mr. Wang died. Someone come and report it to Jiang Chengwei. Arrest this military doctor for me. Yes, inform Jiang Chengwei that this person killed Mr. Wang. He has nothing to do with us. It's really too early Who said he is dead ? Grandpa, thank you to the Seven Miracle Doctors. Please be sure to save Grandpa. This is just a way to stimulate the nerves and overdraw the body. Miss Wang, please hurry up and let us rescue him. Dr. Zhang is the third miracle doctor in Jiangcheng. Don't you still believe what he said? Ji Sir, please do all you can Guard, Miss Wang, if you are resolute, you must sign a disclaimer with our hospital, otherwise he cannot practice medicine in our hospital. I signed it. Dr. Zhang is so anxious to clear away the responsibility as soon as possible. Anyway , after signing this contract, the life and death of the old man has nothing to do with me. Don't even think about me taking the blame for what happened to my grandpa, my grandpa. Let him rest more and he will wake up soon . This is the legendary Thirteen Needles of the Ghost King . Hahaha, can I become your disciple? You, you don't deserve it, why don't you hurry up? Kneel down and apologize . I'm willing to accept anything as an apology. I'm just asking you to accept me as your disciple and teach me your peerless medical skills. It's really useless. People with no medical ethics like you are not worthy of learning Chinese medicine. Who are you? How dare you disrespect Zhang Shenying? I'm getting impatient. What the hell are you? Wait a minute. Doctor Ji just saved grandpa, it's me Our benefactor is just because his hair has not fully grown yet. What the hell is your grandson? What do you call a stupid dog? The patient needs to rest and rest. He will die soon. Rest for a while. This is the share transfer contract left by the old man . You should sign it quickly. Grandpa, You said this is a forgery. I won't sign it. Your father died early. Once the old man leaves the Wang family, I have the final say. You'd better be smarter or you 'll suffer. Well, Wang Xiaoman, hurry up and make him stop cheating. Otherwise, wait. I took control of the Wang family , sold you to a factory, and let thousands of people ride on you Damn it, beat me. Come and kill him . Kill two of them. I'm scared. I'm full of people. A Biao will bring people over right away. I want this kid to die. Grandpa, grandpa, wake up. Dad, it's great that you're awake. Thank you. Thanks to Dr. Zhang's superb medical skills, otherwise you will be harmed by this kid. It's not like this after death, grandpa, you are still a god. Dr. Zhang is the famous doctor in Jiangcheng that I hired. This old man is the credit of Dr. Zhang. I warn you. If you practice medicine illegally, you will go to jail. You are talking nonsense. Grandpa is obviously offering sacrifices to gods, but he is still with you. What does it matter? Since you said so Mr. Wang, you are here to treat me, so I will leave it to you for the next seven days. Of course, the seven days will be once a day for seven consecutive days . If the Ghost King Thirteenth Army can't do it, if the old man dies in your hands , you will be finished. Please continue to treat grandpa , this is not possible Wow, why don't you kneel down and admit your mistake to your benefactor? I'm sorry, Mr. Ji. I beg you to show me your noble hand. I'm yelling at you, you beast. I'm not dead yet. Regarding my family 's property, Xiaoman will be the general manager for several years. Mr. Wang, please take a good rest first. I'll come back tomorrow to say goodbye. Ah haha, I don't have to use my legs to treat a patient. I 'll give you a memory. Ji Heng, this bastard, is so aggressive. Auntie, don't worry if you catch me, I will seize him and resign to avenge Gao Zhe. Master Yang, you are such a good boy. You still find time to visit our little Rui. Ah, if I had followed you instead of Ji Heng, that bastard, bastard, why are you humiliating here ? You are Xiaorui's ex-husband. We are really enemies. I am looking for you. Who are you? What are you talking about? Why are you talking to Master Yang ? Master Yang is the crown prince of the Yang Group. Net worth One billion is not yours A poor beggar has enough sense to come over and kowtow to me to apologize. Your Majesty, I can ask Mr. Yang to spare your life. Why did Mr. Yang know that your wife will soon become mine ? You are not willing to accept it. You said that your wife will be in charge in bed from now on. How interesting would it be if I call you husband ? Really ? What is the pot stove ? If you don't take revenge for this , I, Yang Wei, swear that I won't be a human being. Let's see who dares , Xiao Man , Yao Wei, you are such a brave bitch. Do you dare to do this to our benefactor of the Wang family ? Believe it or not, I will cut off all business in the Yang family. Mom, what happened ? Xiaorui, you are finally here. Ji Heng, this lunatic must be biting people again. Ji Heng, what on earth do you want to do to Azhe? Being injured is not enough. Today you have to apologize . Ms. Gao, what qualifications and identity do you have for me to apologize to you ? This is a mark. It turns out that you have climbed onto a high branch. You are really a piece of cake. Son, I think you two have been leisurely for a long time. Ji Heng, you actually cheated on me. I really misjudged you . Gao Rui, I, Ji Heng, are not that dirty in our behavior. You, Brother Ji, and I are indeed innocent , but I did raise him. Hengrui Building. The Dragon Temple is sealed, Xiaorui. Don't worry, my cousin is the second aunt of Mr. Kui of the Dragon Temple. I'll call you right away to sort it out . Is it true, Mr. Liang? Of course, thank you. Don't men have to give women a sense of security ? Damn, what's the point of relying on a woman to get ahead? I didn't expect that the Dragon Temple gang would actually let themselves go and start supporting Qin's mistress . The bastard dared to insult Mr. Kui's woman. I think you are tired of living and crooked. Huh , I finally found you. Holy fuck. Where did this madness come from? Mother-in-law, even you don't respect my ignorant thing. Cousin, don't be afraid. You're at Jiangchen Hospital, right? I'm coming here now. You're Kuishan's stinky bitch. Kuishan is also the one you called me. Tell me to scold you. Did my wife, that boy, offend my general Mr. Kui? His place of refuge is such a dragon temple that I have no place in Jiangcheng. Lord , please calm down with these factions. We will never condone these sectarian horses. Who are you? You dare to scold me. You are a mysterious man. What are you? Jiangcheng. Jiangcheng. I have no place. He goes to take back the Kuishan soldiers immediately I asked him to commit suicide and apologize. It's Ji Heng. Since you can speak up, can you help them to lift the ban on Hengrui Building? Miss Gao asked me to help you. Why should the dragon god be slapped when he obeys the orders and violates the rules? I was wrong. Wrong, I was wrong. The sacred subordinate has already found him. Go to Mr. Shengshou. Very good. Where are they? The Presidential Suite of Haihua Hotel. Damn, how did you arrange for Mr. Shengshou to stay in a rubbish five-star hotel? Check it and let Mr. Shengshou settle down. Follow your orders. Well, I am Ji. Lord Heng Shengshou , don't worry, I'll send Gobbo soon. The Dragon King is here to see you. No need. Today is just something urgent. I have a place to live. I don't want to have anything to do with your Dragon Temple. Don't bother me again . Don't come to me again. It's Master Shengshou. I'm tired. I'll rest first . By the way, go to Hengrui Building. The ban has been lifted. Please tell me who provoked Wang Engong. I want to make his whole family irreversible. The Yang family in Jiangcheng is a good Yang family . Do you know what to do? Understand. Humph, Qihang, this loser, knows how to put on airs, and dares to let Mr. Kui guess who he is? Who is he? Yes , yes. What Yang Shao said to Ji Heng was nothing more than a freeloader of trash. It's just pretentious. How can you compare with Mr. Yang? He must die in a very embarrassing way. Before you die, I want you to see with your own eyes how I play with your woman's little pistil. You see, the building has been unblocked now . It's Mr. Yang's credit. In my opinion, it's the right thing for you to marry Mr. Yang now. It's a true choice . He didn't dare to agree to help you. That's because he was afraid that Guo Xian wouldn't be like me. But the woman in black seems to be from the Dragon Temple . And what's more, the building has been unsealed. They are just playing for the occasion. It's Mr. Yang's credit. You should thank Mr. Yang. Yes, and I think the name Hengrui Building is not good. With Ji Heng's useless name, it wouldn't be surprising if there are so many bad things happening in this company. If I tell you, the company will be renamed Weirui Building in the future, and it will be called Wei Rui Building, Yang Shaoda. I think This name is so good, Gao Rui. Don't worry. From now on, you will follow this rubbish from me. Throw it away. Throw it away. Why are you looking for me so late? My dear, it 's wonderful . The night life has just arrived. How about we go have a drink? Let's talk about it together. Well, I have some bad news for you. Wife, no, your ex-wife, what happened to him , dear, are you calling me? The good news is that you will receive a sum of money , but I don't think you need to continue talking. Don't stop . Well, you are good or bad. By the way , the bad news is still In the second half, your ex-wife wants to change Dasha's name to very hard to pronounce. excuse my curiosity. As your manager , I have an obligation to inquire about the person who is running this matter. That man named Yang Wei , don't worry. I must have rejected this request and you will handle it. What did you say ? The big boss behind the scenes doesn't agree. Dare you let our Yang family wait and rely on Young Master to even change the name of the building? They are really going too far. We, Xiaorui, are the majority shareholders of the building. Who is the person behind this? If the Xiang family doesn't give face to anyone , let's forget about changing the name of the building. I only own a small part of the equity in this company. The real holder is the mysterious group behind it . What's wrong ? Why the hell don't you die in a woman's house? Is it possible that all the billions of funds from my Yang family are gone ? This is impossible. Isn't it because of that bitch of yours? She offended someone she shouldn't have offended. How can we forget about it? Look at this name . Didn't you let Ji Heng, that loser, take advantage of you? Our Master Yang is so good to you . You can't let Master Yang down . You say so, right? Master Yang, ah, Master Yang, shut up, you stinky bitch , Yang Wei. What are you doing ? And you're a broom. Go away, do you want me to support your family and bankrupt your family ? Go and apologize to that big shot. Lord Holy Hand , the Yang family and your ex-wife have been kneeling outside all night. Do you want to see them? The subordinates rashly speculated about Lord Holy Hand. People are thinking, please forgive me , sir. It's okay. You did a good job . Let Gao Rui come in. Hey, do you want me ? Who asked you to get up? Kneel down. Yes , you came in. Thank you, sir. Go in and pay homage to the sir. Be sensible. Isn't that right? Is n't it right when you see the sir? If you don't kneel down, such a mediocre woman deserves to go out with you. Is this my lord ? Please let us go. You, our Gao family and the Yang family tell the Yang family to prepare to be buried together with the Gao family. No sir. Please, the Gao family is all my efforts. I can promise anything for the Gao family. Ah Hao, why are you Gao Rui, you and I have been husband and wife for three years? I didn't even know that you are a woman who can take off your clothes at will. Ah Heng Listen to me explain , explain, you got here just by taking off your clothes God, please explain why you are fooling around with other men in my house. No, I am innocent. We are divorced. What does your innocence have to do with me? I can save you , Ah Hao. Why are you hiding it from me? If I had told you earlier Knowing that you have such great ability, I will do anything and everything I will be disgusted with Yang Wei. Ah Hao, you misunderstood me. It's all because of the company. I love you and will never change. I will never see you again. Someone drags him out . Ah Hao, listen to my explanation. Ah Hao , let go. Let me throw the two dogs of the Yang family in, uh uh uh uh uh uh uh , sir, please forgive us , Yang. Mr., Mr., Mr., is a woman from Gao Rui . She has been encouraging me to seduce me, causing me to backhand. I don't dare to do it myself . Please let me go. Please let me go, let go of our Yang family, Yao Wei, you. You're so shameless when you blame all your jealousy on a woman. It's impossible for Ji Jingheng to do this. It's impossible that you are someone who dares to call you by your first name and seek death. You want to kill our family. Kneel down, kneel down, and apologize to the Lord. It's too late. County magistrate, I am willing to give half of our family's property to you. Just let me go. How about taking away half of our family fortune from our natal family? Oh my god. All I want is, ah, ah, ah, ah, if you have the ability, just kill me . I just want your Yang family to be wiped out in ashes, uh, uh, uh, if you kill them all, our Yang family is not a soft persimmon to be pinched, right? We have to be merciful. Our Yang family and the Xie family, the number one family in Jiangcheng, are also connected to Qilianzhi. It's just rubbish . Sir, do you need the names of your subordinates? You don't have to worry about my business . I'm tired. Go on. I obey my orders. You give me Brother Teng. You give me Brother Teng . God's Holy Hand. Sir, are you dissatisfied ? No one praised me for doing a good job. If you want to continue repairing here, then buy this hotel, yes , ah, ah, ah, I Dad's hand, my hand, they killed all my Yang family. Dad is not a vegetarian. Fortunately, that trash didn't dare to kill me. He must still be afraid of taking off his hands. Dad thought this would scare us away and then annex my Yang family's property . It's not too late. Instead of taking advantage of that kid, why don't we lend the God of Wealth to the Xie family first? I am not willing to let the Xie family stand up for us and it will be in vain . You are from the Dragon Temple, and I have a way to make you a beggar again. Don't worry, with your face, the evil Moreover, the evil hero The eldest young master has been interested in Wang Xiaoman all night. If he knew that Wang Xiaoman was fucked, mom, hahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha who is blind? Is there someone else ? In the past few days, thanks to Doctor Ji 's overnight illness, I was able to recover so quickly. You don't have to be polite to call me by my name. Since you don't like it , I'll call you Ji Dake. I'm just doing it for Linglong Chalcedony. Don't go too far. Grandpa, you're awake and you two are flirting. When I was scolding, I woke up. Grandpa, Mr. Ji, acted righteously. I am very grateful. I have asked Xiaoman's uncle to take out the exquisite chalcedony tonight. I have a banquet with both hands of the Wang family . In order to thank Brother Ji and at the same time to celebrate the recovery of my grandpa , the Wang family held a dinner party at the Haihua Hotel. Jiang Chen and all the prominent people will come to attend. Hey, please forgive me, old man. I can't go with you because of my limited mobility . OK, will I attend ? Are you feeling uncomfortable? Brother Ji , can you be my male companion tonight? Can you two stay away from the old man? This place is an eyesore and my heart is blocked. Oh, grandpa, Brother Qi, I'm so sorry. I just have something to do . You can go and do it . Isn't this the pretty boy Xiao Man found? He dares to serve any kind of toad. I don't know what Xiao Man thinks. I look down upon such a handsome young master like you to have sex with such a thing. I kneel down. My shoes are very clean. My heart is clean. If you're in love, I'll spare your life . I'm in a bad mood, so why don't you kneel down and lick my shoes? OK , you fucking dare to hit me. You're so brave. You dare to attack Mr. Xie. Someone , please interrupt his dog for me. Stop your legs. Who dares to be rude to me, the distinguished guest of the Wang family? My little sister is just a bastard. She made the first move. Let's see what she will do to Mr. I 'm bringing you down. This kind of banquet is not for trash. Shut up, bitch. Who the hell are you calling a bitch ? Xiaoman is my woman and you can call her a bitch. Please respect yourself. Wang Lu, don't tell me you don't know that Brother Ji is the miracle doctor who saved grandpa. He will be the biggest guest tonight. He is the miracle doctor who can rejuvenate such a young Wang. Jia Chen is unlucky. He saved the old man and got a handsome son-in-law. Didn't Young Master Xie get cheated on? I heard that he is going to propose to Miss Wang. Ji, you are a low-class thing and you are just serving us. He's just a rich man's dog, but he dares to steal a woman from me. Xiaoman, don't even think about him marrying me. As long as you promise , I'm willing to use this Haihua Hotel as a betrothal gift . It's the most popular hotel in Jiangcheng. The luxurious hotel is growing rapidly every day, and its annual net income is at least 100 million. This introduction is inevitable. If I were the head of the Wang family, I would definitely choose him to introduce him. Can you afford the transfer agreement for the Kaihua Hotel ? Do you still dare to follow me? It's better than hum. I make the decision. Xiaoman marries Mr. Xie. The marriage between our two families is truly a perfect match. Xiaoman, I invited a big shot to testify for us today. I don't agree with you later. Don't know what to do. Not everyone can be liked by Xie Shao. The governor of Jiangcheng, Tang Xiaotian, is here. I'm late. I'm late. It's the governor of Jiangcheng, Tang Xiaotian. Why is he here already? Master Jiang, what kind of wind blows you away? Come on ! Aren't I going to be Mr. Xie as a witness? That's such a coincidence. I was about to betroth Manman to Mr. Xie. You came just in time. Uncle, I won't be able to marry him even if I die. You are the daughter of the Wang family. The Wang family needs you to join the Xie family. I can't tolerate your disagreement. Just give it to me. Come on, Xiaomai, what's wrong with Mr. Xie? What's more, it's a good talk in the presence of the Governor . Yes, as long as you follow me, I will love you well. You are also the Wang family. I don't know that they want to betray their own niece. Integrity Wang, the old master of the family is also a person. He has a good-for-nothing son like you. Bastard, don't think that you can act wild in front of me after saving the old man. Someone drag him out of here. Wang Family Reply Give me my things. From now on, the affairs of the Wang family have nothing to do with me. Who the hell are you ? I will give you whatever you want. The exquisite chalcedony was given to the Xie family as a dowry a long time ago. In your hands, let me go , otherwise You just don't give face to the Governor. You still beat people in front of the Governor . This shows that you don't take the Lord seriously. It's a good thing for young people to be courageous , but you have to see the situation clearly. Jiang Chengwei, hum, I see. Who dares to touch him? Who are you? This is a wanton dog-like thing. Get out of here. Brother Ji, your people are here. I am here. No one can force you. Even the King of Heaven and I are here . Sir , this is Sir. This is Haihua prepared for you. From now on, everything here is the purchase contract of your Haihua Hotel. Introduce the agreement just now . The Wang family was cheated. Now they will be embarrassed. Hahaha, fart. My Xie family's property has changed hands. Didn't I know? You are so brave. Governor, here you dare to cheat and cheat . I don't know how to live or die. What's going on? The Xie family is the largest family hotel in Jiangcheng. Isn't it acquired by you? Ah, it's ridiculous. Jiang Chengwei took them and blinded your dog eyes. As the governor of Jiangcheng, you don't know who I am. I don't care who you are. In this land of Jiangcheng, I am the sky and you are the sky. Shameless words, nameless Chi Xuantao, please shut up. Governor of Jiangcheng, aren't you going to arrest me? Enter Jiangcheng Lieutenant. Come and arrest me. Well, sir , don't you have eyes? Lord Ming Jing, this guy is always talking nonsense. Let me arrest this Lord. Xie Kun, can your dog eyes tell the difference between real and fake now? It's impossible to expose you. I want to expose your dad. There is a madman here who said that our Haihua Hotel was sold to him. Dad, please tell me this is all fake. of It's all fake. I just sold the Haihua Hotel. It's not right for you. You traitor, have you offended this big boss? Get the hell back here and tell me that the Xie family is causing trouble. That big shot is Linglong who our Xie family can afford to offend . Where is the chalcedony? I don't know. I really don't know. It 's not in my Xie family. I don't know where it is . Someone asked for this thing by name . Only our Xie family will exchange it with Haihua Hotel and Wang family. I really don't know. Tell me, tell me who dares to make the idea for what I want. Do n't worry, I will definitely do it. You bastard, how dare you lie to me ? Hey, hey, this Wang Xinan really knows how to act. Is he taking action now because he is afraid of being implicated by the actor? I don't think it's true at all. It's more like he's afraid that Jin Gui's son-in-law doesn't like him. The Wang family. Hahaha. Golden God Wings. It's all his fault. He deceived me. Otherwise, I would have blocked Linglong Chalcedony with both hands within three days. If there is no news about you, Wang. The family no longer needs to exist, no, please let us go. Wang Xiaoman loves you so much. I will make the decision to marry her to your second uncle now. What are you talking about ? Wang Xiaoman, your parents died early. I am your second uncle. Uncle, you have to listen to me and you don't have the right to interrupt. Have you forgotten that Mr. Wang has deprived you of the royal general manager? Why should he listen to you? Brother Ji, my second uncle made a mistake and gave away the exquisite chalcedony. But don't worry. king I will definitely try my best to get my hands back. If I have one piece for the old man, maybe there will be a second piece. Please give us a chance. Uncle Xiaoman will never interfere in your marriage again. You can marry whoever you like. Talk quickly. Seven Big brother Wang Xin'an is really good at calculating. I think he's pretty good. The talented man is more handsome than Mr. Xie. I don't know. A lot of Ah Heng, wait, don't promise me to tell you something. What does it have to do with you whether I promise or not ? Who is this person? Could there be another bride-stealer? Today's scene is too exciting, doesn't it look okay? This desolate look is not as good as Miss Wang. I have something to ask you. Can you go out with me? Are you? Where did you get the invitation? You dare to enter my Wang family dinner without an invitation? Someone come and kick this bitch out. Ah Hao Yang Wei, he forced me. Well , I knew you wouldn't . I just don't want you to ruin my elegance for you. Let me introduce, this is my girlfriend Wang Xiaoman Gaorui. Come and beg me now. Do you think I am your spare tire? You deserve it, is n't it ? Needless to say, I'm not interested in Xiaoman. Do you like this hotel? Do you like it? What's wrong ? Since Brother Ji likes it, I'll give it to you . I really have something to tell you, Gao Rui. I won't take action against you. It was my kindness to let the Gao family be destroyed. Don't shout so affectionately. I feel sick. Hahahaha. Haha, there's a little girl who's drunk. Brother, don't worry , brothers, just have some soup . Hey, hey, hey, brother, this little girl is sexy at first sight. Don't mess up. Leave a mouthful for your brother. My sister is lost. Brother, come and help you. Go away , sister. You two are blind. This is my sister. This is a Taoist priest who has left the devil's temple. Get out of here. Sister, go away slowly . Let go. Don't hit me. Go away. You don't know me anymore. Who are you? Go away. Viagra is me. He is unconscious now. Look, Hao Hao Pink Romantic Hotel 618, right? Brother Hao Hui, you are really in a mood . Okay, ok. My sister has money now and she won't even spend it on me . I'm penniless now. Oh, ok. Okay, sister, mom , okay, please save me, what are you doing? I'll take you to a good place. You let go of my lingering presence. Boss, are you going to change your number? Well , okay, I thought you didn't need this right now, but Linglong Yushan may have some news. The second uncle's guests are all leaving. Why don't you? It's him who should go and give a shit . They took the initiative to say goodbye to me. This Haihua Hotel belongs to my Wang family. It's up to them to please me. Come to the small door and sit down. Second uncle, what do you mean ? Haihua Hotel belongs to Brother Ji. You really don't want anything from you. His, his, and yours, don't they all have the surname Wang? Shameless, what do you want to do? The Haihua Hotel gave it to you , but that kid said it himself. Do you want to refuse the bastard ? He has already given this hotel to you. It is equivalent to giving it to the Wang family. This is the family's property. You are not qualified to return it. And that The boy said it right away If he dares to break his promise , I will spread the news to see how he can have the nerve to hang around in Jiangcheng. You are crazy. Grandpa's disease still needs his treatment. Wang Xiaoman, if you dare to disobey , I will kill you. Grandpa , what do you want to do? You are crazy. That's grandpa , you're a white-eyed wolf. The Wang family raised you for nothing. You dare not do anything. Who is the white-eyed wolf? You or Grandpa's son? You have to go against me, right? Today, even if you go to sleep with him , you still want to get the ownership of the hotel back. I tell you that you are wishful thinking . Uh-huh, I won't hit you, lest you make a sound I came here and was discovered by that boy . I told you that you have to go to the room today whether you go or not. I have prepared the room for you. You must get the hotel for me tonight. If you can't come over , you can go to the cemetery to see the old man. Well, what does Xiaoman want from me? Who is Brother Ji? Who dares to bully you ? No one has anything to say. Where are you now? I'll go find you and talk to you in detail. I'm at the Pink Romantic Hotel 616. Brother Xiao Manxie , you shouldn't have come. This is not a good place. Oh, Brother Fei, my sister is drinking. It's too much trouble for you to take care of you. Don't worry, I will definitely take care of her comfortably. Brother Fei, my Viagra brother, I have already told you that you and my sister are a perfect match . Do you want to watch my live broadcast? See what you said after you marry my sister. We are a family. Brother-in-law, I'm leaving now. Haha . Hajiang, what's the use of being awesome? Your woman has become my plaything. Yang Wei and I are really not the kind of relationship you thought. Don't worry, we'll have it soon. Hahahahaha . Why is it you? Don't you think? Am I being extremely arrogant? Keep raging, old man ? Let him turn into a green turtle today. You let me go, you beast, let me go. Dong Ahou is here. He insists on killing you. Let me go. You are such a big old man . You won't go to the emperor, Li Jiheng. Okay, let him look at you. You look like a slut in bed , you stinky bitch, do you want to run away? Ah, kneel down. Now that you have made me feel comfortable, you can suffer less. Let me go. Let me go. You set sail and show off your power. Bastard Mr. Qi. I have never touched this woman. I really have never touched Mr. Qi. I have not touched this. The woman really did n't move at all. Now. I know I begged for mercy and you just returned it to me. I don't dare to do it anymore. I really don't dare to do it anymore. I'm so fucking mean . Hahahahaha. Fortunately, you came to save me. Otherwise, don't be so sentimental. I just happened to pass by and clean up. Trash Ah Hao, you are still giving birth to me Are you angry ? Didn't he just say that? We both have nothing. I am innocent. Brother Ji, why are you here? Why is he here? Is it only you who can come ? Xiaoxin doesn't need you to help me. Others are kind to you. Are you crazy about drinking like this? No I'm not crazy I am I'm innocent. I came to a place like this drunk in the middle of the night. I 'm innocent. I said this is not me. Last time, you drank too much and was sent here by his brother. Gao Ze was the one who called him. He said it was my money. I only have evidence. Did you hear that Viagra finished eating it so quickly ? Isn't my sister amazing? His brother actually sold her for money . Hum, do you want your life or your lifeblood, right? This is not of my own free will and I don't want to come. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ruby.tonight.com.com Remember to deal with all the records of 618. The boss handles it. Where can I castrate and mine in Africa ? You are so helpful. The sunshine there is very good . I want to have a sunshine spa. Then you can go to the supervisor. Oh dear, you can't do this to me. I still prefer to be with you Boss, guess what I have in my hand. If you have anything to say, please tell me. This is a survey report on the Writer's Practice Network. The exquisite chalcedony is probably in the hands of one of them. Is this a troublesome person? If you are willing to use the Dragon Temple. It won't be difficult . Since we have a list , we can hold an auction and let them participate. Sell it . I'm tired of staying in Jiangcheng. I just want to sell all the properties in Jiangcheng. You can make arrangements . My dear , I'm going to send him back. Are you sure you want to follow him? He's in severe pain now. I'm afraid of you. I can't take care of you . Why are you so familiar with this place? I've lived here for 3 years . Brother Ji and Miss Gao are drunk. Why don't you send him inside? Wang Xiaoman Wang Xiaoman, are you stupid? Why are you reminding him? What if Brother Ji gets serious? If he drinks too much, he will be dishonest and need help. The caretakers are already divorced. What am I thinking? Let's go. He will take care of me. Take care of yourself , okay , Ah Hao, don't leave. I don't want to divorce you. You've been awake for a long time and you pretend to be like this woman. What's so good about this woman? Why did you give her such a big hotel? Why did I think you were quite pitiful at first? It seems that there is simply no cure. You still don't know that you and The difference between Xiaoman and I am inferior to him. Is it because of his beauty? Or is it because he is the daughter of the Wang family, Miss Gao? You misunderstood Brother Ji. He is not that kind of person. You shut up because of you. You only care about these appearances. You are dissatisfied and unhappy. Isn't it just because I gave Xiaoman a drink? Didn't the store give it to you? But don't forget how the Gao family got the Hengrui Building when we only had one company with you. Ah Heng, I know I was wrong . Please forgive me. Please forgive me. Just take care of yourself. Tell you not to be fooled again. Your mother and Gao Zhe's words deceived you, but you will be sold again next time . No one can save you anymore. What do you say? Let's go, Brother Ji. This is what happened. My second uncle threatened me with my grandfather's life. I really have no choice. Brother Ji, don't you blame me? You didn't say anything when we were in the hotel . How could I blame you? Well, can you still treat my grandfather's illness ? I will definitely cure your disease , and I promise you that no one will dare to bully you in the future. Thank you, Brother Ji . Brother Qi, let's go home. Quickly open the door. Ji Heng , I know you must be inside. Don't even think about it. My niece, just open the door. Dad , let's open the door. The Wang family cannot afford to suffer this loss. Chiquan can live with it. Wang Xianan is coming. Come on, fuck him. Second uncle, what are you going to do ? Xiaoman is a woman from our Wang family. You didn't even give her a bride price . How dare you sleep with her ? Do you have my permission? It's Xiaoman's parents who died long ago . But my dad raised me so I can't let others bully me in vain. Go to Xiaoman. Did he force you to do this? What nonsense are you talking about? I did it voluntarily, you shameless bastard . The Wang family has been completely embarrassed by you. Old man, you are looking for death. Stop talking nonsense. Our Wang family doesn't want more than 10 billion. My family promised Haihua Hotel 100 before. Geyi Haihua Hotel, are you crazy? What's yours is mine. We, the Wang family, have given you face. Did you dare to snatch the things I gave to Xiaoman? You slept with him and gave him a betrothal gift. It's a matter of course. I don't know what the heavens and the earth are. Your Majesty has taken a liking to your Wang family's daughter . She belongs to your Wang family. It's such a great honor for you, a stinky woman, to Then you come to our Wang family and act wild. Well, even with Dragon Temple's ability, you dare to stop dad from saving me. Dare to beat my daughter to death. You bitch, I'll spare you now. There will be no return. Ruoxi has so much nonsense. There will be no return. Hmm, let's see what you can do. Who are you going to call ? If you can't come up with 10 billion, don't even think about going out alive to feed me. Where the hell are you? Come and bring him in . Is it him? This is impossible. How can this person execute my brother-in-law? Don't go too far. It's too early. You dare to ask for 10 billion and Doudou Xiaoman's when you open your mouth. In the hotel, your behavior is worthy of my city. He scolded me. You are the one who raised him, shouldn't you give me money? Let you seduce you for the Wang family. Even a man can't do that. You are a piece of trash . Grandpa took care of me when I was brought up . What does it have to do with you? You farted and fell asleep and forgot who you were. I tell you, the Wang family, he can't find out the pathology and you should never think about it in the future. Why are we together ? The Wang family has the final say. I have the final say. Uh- huh. You said the Wang family has the final say. But what about him? Damn hum. When will it be your turn to have the final say? Grandpa, why are you back? Dad, if I don't come back, how will I know about us? My old man no longer has the final say in the Wang family. I will come back. Just to bring justice to you. Dad is not like this. He is the bastard. He insulted Xiao Man first. I also wanted to bring justice to Xiao Man. Grandpa, it is absolutely true. Grandpa, we are also doing it for Xiao Man's good and to test his side. Sincerely, he doesn't care about us at all The Wang family looks down on you and has turned our Wang family into chaos. It 's not my grandpa. They want Brother Ji to shut up, you shameless thing. They do n't like you and are reluctant to even give you a betrothal gift. They even disrespect the Wang family and let you do it. I have lost all the things that make people look down upon me in my house. How can you be noble? If you don't learn how to pay a betrothal gift, it 's nothing. It's more than enough to buy the entire Wang family's property. If you were really noble , we'd never heard of it. You couldn't be the actors he invited, right ? Xiaoman, couldn't you have been deceived by him? It's so embarrassing to back you up , huh, huh, how dare you insult an adult and seek death , huh? Spare my life, spare my life. I can give my things , but you can't ask for them, let alone take them. This is the rule . Brother Ji, Mr. Ji, don't worry, the Wang family will give you an explanation. I don't need your Wang family to explain anything. Xiaoman is not a bargaining chip . Tools of human trade. I don't want what happened today to happen to Xiao Man again. Otherwise, Mr. Ji, don't worry. As long as my old man is here, I won't let Xiao Man be bullied . From today on, the big and small matters of our Wang family have nothing to do with you. It's all up to Xiao Man to take care of your dad. I have no credit for my loyalty to the family. There's still hard work, dad, you still have the nerve to mention hard work, you've already done it to Mr. Ji I gave the raw exquisite chalcedony to someone else. I wish I was widowed. Oh, since you are ruthless to me, don't blame me for being unrighteous. Grandpa, don't be angry. Mr. Ji, don't worry, even if I, the Wang family , want to get the exquisite chalcedony back, then give it to me. You give me your best wishes with both hands. I accept this matter and I have my own arrangements. You don't have to worry about it. I don't have it in my heart , but no one can take away the things I sent to Heng . What are you doing to eat? You can't do it. Get out of here, Mr. This is that bitch's company. What are you doing to me ? This is the Gaorui Building. I'm doing business. You dare to talk nonsense. Hurry up and tell Gao Rui, that bitch, to get out, hurry up, save your hand, I'm already here I called Jiang Chengwei. So what if I called Jiang Chengwei ? Can he still protect you, a murderer ? Sir, you have to make the decision for my son. This must be a misunderstanding . Our Xiaorui is kind-hearted . How can he be a murderer? He is kind-hearted. I see. He's just a dirty, rotten piece of shit who 's looking for Yang on purpose. Wei slept with him and then took the opportunity to murder you. It's nonsense. It's obviously him who wants to do something to me again. Ji, tell me quickly , where is my son ? You are so unreasonable . It's obviously Yang Fei who bullied me, Ah Hao, Ji Heng, Ji Heng, who killed Yang Wei, right? No, this matter has nothing to do with Ji Heng. How dare you lie to me to seek death ? What are you doing? Let go of my son. Go away, this is your brother. If you don't say a word today, I will go away. You are a shame . Let go of my son. I am only such a son. Please let him go. Are you going to kill your brother? Come on, tell me. Sister, please save me, my hand. Please tell me, Young Master Yang must have been taken away by Qi Heng, right? Tell me quickly. Okay. To the adulterer and adulterer , my aunt, I hate you, you bitch, my son, my son, I hate you , you pest , how can your brother find a partner and take over the company if he has no hands ? Ah ah ah, he must have dragged you into the trap to frame our Gaoshan, right ? Mom , it's because he wanted to rob me. Ah Hao, he's good. It's an honor for you, Master Yang, to sleep with you. You actually teamed up with him to kill Qi Shao. Well , Xiaorui has already admitted it. Please let my son go. It's all recorded. How dare you harm my son ? I'll make you pay for your blood. Soul, you are shameless . I only have a son like this. Please let him go. Please let him go. My daughter called Ji Heng over and I will spare your son's life. Call Qiang. Please save your brother. It's impossible. I won't call him. If you don't hit me, why are you beating me ? He belongs to the Gao family and I am also a Gao family. Family, you loser, shut up. Hello, the number you dialed is currently on a call and can't be reached. Board, this is what you want. Henry Building will be sold to your ex-wife at a stupid price. Miss, you really don't think about him anymore. After all, needless to say, he is actually jealous of Xiaoman getting Haihua. I, Ji Heng, don't favor one over the other. The person who wanted to give me 10 million now I will give him a building Why not, since we are leaving Jiangcheng, it would be good to sever all ties from now on. This is an invitation letter to the Eternal Auction. If you are interested in inviting Miss Qianqi, I think he will be willing to waste time . Please let me go and go away. Man, if you don't let that loser Ji Heng come over, all of you will have to Get out of here for my son. Bitch, it seems didn't even answer the phone. Did you have a guilty conscience and ran away without you? Don't try to trick me. I don't know anything. I don't know. I will beat you until you know it today. Why are you killing pigs before the Chinese New Year ? Yo Ji Heng, do you really dare to come here? I'll kill your hook, Ah Hao, Ah Hao, run quickly and kill him. This scourge has nothing to do with our Gao family and has nothing to do with my son. Are you still fighting? I will definitely let you pay for my son's life. Kill him. He should be reformed through labor in an African mine now. Aren't you very good at fighting? Come on. Haha, hum, aren't you a good fighter? Come here, I'll kill them. What does their life and death have to do with me? Ji Heng, you ungrateful bastard. Our Gao family treats you badly. You actually harmed us, old bitch. Please figure it out. The person who wants to kill you is not me , it's him, Ji Heng. Stop fucking pretending. Look at the harm you are doing now. How many people have you sinned against? This is intentional harm, right? Jiang Chengwei will be here soon . You wait to go to jail. You Dahong, run away. When they came just now, I informed Jiang Chengwei that he wanted to run away. It's too late . Ji Heng didn't expect it. Jiang Chengwei is me. Don't you think you can get out alive today? You bastard, you haven't knelt down to apologize to Master Xie. Is it amazing to be able to fight? Master Xie will kill you with just one move. Hurry and kneel down to Master Xie to apologize. Don't implicate our Gao family. You are just a poor man. Dare you fight with Master Xie ? Even if you can beat others , your bullets are not long. The eyes can also kill you, and you want to kill you. Zhe, your hand was just stretched by my hand. Sir, you have to make the decision for me. They are all such trash. He broke my finger. Ah Zhe, how can you lie? Don't talk nonsense to them. They are all a group of wanton men who commit crimes in broad daylight and dare to slander me, Jiang Chenwei, He Rui Building. Bringing people here, I want to spare my life. Captain Zhou, hurry up. He has a weapon in his hand. Put down the weapon and hold your head with both hands. Otherwise, I will kill you. Shoot him immediately. That 's such a strong tone. Even if your Governor Tang Haotian comes here , you won't dare to talk to me like this. Captain Zhou , kill him quickly. He is the murderer of Master Yang. He is a madman. Shoot him quickly. Master Shengshou is surrounded by the building in death and not even a fly is left. If you are going to fly out, you should hold your head with your hands as a warning. Hold your head with your hands and warn you twice as a warning. Go to hell. I've killed someone. I'm sorry , I 'm here to clean up the garbage. I obeyed my order. You actually have guns and you dare to kill people. Sir, do you want to execute this person too? How dare you ? My current backer has come to Jiangcheng. I tell you that Jiangcheng is not a place where you can cover the sky with one hand. Who can still be so arrogant? Can you be better than your majesty ? Sir, what do you mean? Come and listen to the Li family in Kyoto. Boss , there will be a sale soon this time. The family most likely to bring out exquisite chalcedony is one of these three families. Why are the Ye family and Li Jiaxi family in Kyoto so scared? Why don't you let me go ? Let them go. Okay, let them go. You can go, sir. They, um, are you stopping? I let you go . Why do you dare to stay? I 'm not afraid. I told Li Xiang to make you walk around without food. How about forget it? Their Li family is not something that we Jiangcheng people can afford to offend. Since Jiang Cheng is so disrespectful, rise Why are the Lis still here? Of course they are participating in the auction of the Eternal Group. What's the matter ? You don't know how powerful the Eternal Auction is ? The investors behind the mysterious and powerful Eternal Venture Capital are even more mysterious. His power spans across the board. The two streams of capital from business and government are even more powerful. He can buy a middle-sized country in the West. It's completely exaggerated. I can only buy half of it. Shameless, who do you think you are? Dare to say so. Tell the truth. I can only buy it. Half hahahaha oh my, you can buy half of it. It makes me laugh to death. You think it's great that you have a few thugs running amok in Jiangcheng. You actually want to own the Eternal Group. Damn, look . With the strength of my Xie family, I only have two invitations. I've never seen this country bumpkin, right? You probably don't even know where the auction will be held. What kind of auction? Even the Xie family only has two invitation letters. Eternal Group will not give anyone face . He has money, even though he is a local snake , he has no qualifications, he just has no qualifications. Is that enough? Well, it is impossible to take advantage of the Li family with the strength of my Xie family. I only have two invitations. Why do you have so many ? Are you, you are really a fool? Yeah, you can't even pretend to be cool. Who would believe it if you took so much at once ? Hahaha, it's because you thought you were doing wholesale and wholesale fake. Do you have any brains to cheat? Who the hell would you take so much at once ? Believe it It's fake, right? You're brainless, right ? Do you think you can sit back and relax now that you have Li Jia ? Or can you convict me just by taking the video? Give me back my son. Give me back my son. Send a message to Li Jia's eternal auction. If I hadn't seen Linglong Chalcedony and the Li family, I could have destroyed them easily. Since you want to offend the Li family to death, I will definitely help you. Even if you are just wagging your tail and writing about people, it's just a matter of time to see if the thing is in the Li family. Heng, thank you for saving. Got me Otherwise, Ah Zhe's hand will be useless if it's too late. So you 're thanking me for Gao Zhe's sake , of course not. My mother and I, we all want to thank you. There's no need for Ah Zhe. I also have my own reasons. Needless to say, I don't want to listen to you. Do you know why I chose this place? Why ? Because it is a good place to say goodbye. We have a beginning and an end. It is impossible for me and Xiaorui to truly love each other. This must not be what he meant . This is what I mean. You are not envious. Xiaoman, can you get Haihua Hotel? Since you want it too , I'll give it to you. This is the transfer contract of Hengrui Building. If you sign it, the building will be yours. From now on, we part ways . I don't want me. As long as you want it, we want Ah Heng, mom. I really like your gift from the bottom of my heart, so I accepted it for Xiaorui . Mom, we can't ask for it , you stinky girl, you stubborn man. Don't let it go to waste. Don't take it so that they will be happy. This Ah Heng is showing his love to you. I think. I want to make peace with you, otherwise why would I give you such an expensive gift? Humph, is it true? Ah Heng, is it true? It 's because your mother can change her mind with just one word. You are really hopeless. Oh Ah Heng, don't be angry with your mother in the future. I want you and Xiaorui to live a good life. I am an old woman and won't interrupt anymore. Ah Hao's mother is also doing it for our own good. Okay, hum. Then why is this? Rui, you are such a bastard. How dare you tear my things? Ah, this is my mother. You eat it , white-eyed wolf. My family's Drinking my Xiaorui, I shouldn't have saved you in the first place and let you die in the lake. Forget it, haha, this is mine, mom, how can you say that? In fact, Ahong is the largest shareholder of Hongyuan Building. Without him, there would be nothing. Today in our Gao family I have been extremely benevolent to your Gao family. Otherwise, you think that in just 3 years, your Gao family will be able to establish a foothold in Jiangcheng. Since you are so rich, you only have a shabby building . Why don't you give it to Xiaorui and go back on your promise ? I think you just can't afford it. Mom is gone. You will be gone Get up, hum. What do you know? I'm doing this for me. Isn't it for you? Hum. Are you doing it for him ? Or for your good-for-nothing son who can even sell his own sister? What are you talking about? You really know how to send your daughter to someone else. You are so unconscionable that you put a man's bed for others to enjoy. What did you say ? Stop talking nonsense. Otherwise, why do you think you were in Yang Wei's bed? It 's your brother Gao Zhe. This can't be true. I don't know that he is doing it for Yang Wei's 20,000 yuan. Yuan is still Your mother has always wanted to use you to kneel down and lick the useless dog of the Yang family. I have the video and evidence. If you still don't believe it , then you are really hopeless. Mom, she paid 20,000 yuan. Just for 20,000 yuan , the Duke took it. So what if I sold it ? No matter what he says, your brother's hand is broken. What else do you want? He is your son, so I am not your daughter. Are you wronged? What have you lost? Damn girl, what are you doing? Who will pay your brother's medical expenses if you leave? You don't have a long walk. Eyes, hurrying to reincarnate, I'm sorry, I'm so unlucky , boss, I think you should be right now, Yang Qiong, doesn't he want to see his son? Then send them father and son to reunite, then he will be very touched. I guarantee that your ex-wife will not walk to the lake. I want to boss , hey , wake up, wake up, wake up, hey, wake up, Ah Hao , you are right. In my mother's heart, I will never be as good as her son, Ah Hao . I love you , ah, ah. I actually really want to leave, but I remembered What I once said to you I think I should be braver. You said you can't jump into the lake no matter how hard you think about it. I'm telling you, this is the ugliest way to die. You're lucky to have met me today. Otherwise, you could just wait to feed the sharks. I'm just now. Realize that you have suffered so many grievances in the Gao family over the years because of me. We are what we are now because of me. Ah Heng, believe me. I will definitely let Hengrui Building be on the biggest stage in Jiangcheng. Why are you here? That's not important, Miss Gao, I'm congratulating you You, you have successfully won the sympathy of the boss. This is the invitation letter to the Eternal Auction. Ah Heng. Ah Heng. Where are you? Miss Gao has some things that will last a lifetime if you miss them. Please take care of yourself. Ah Heng. What are your instructions for the Eternal Auction in two days ? All the company's properties in Jiangcheng have been sold off. By the way, remember to include Hengrui Building among them. Boss, aren't you ready to leave it to your ex-wife? But leave it to him in another way, as long as he participates. He understands the final transaction of the auction . My boss is just a price. If the price is too high , Ms. She is afraid that the eternal auction will be set up for a lucky guest. Everything purchased will be given away for free. You are really a generous gentleman. Are you free the night after tomorrow in Kyoto ? Young Master Li of the Li family, this person is Li Qiming, the eldest son of the famous Jindu wealthy family Li Qiming. You don't want your life. If you dare to call Mr. Li by his full name , someone has called him by his full name before. Hey , this is such a fool . Chen really doesn't It's something that can't be put on the table. Huh, what Master Li is saying is that our battlefield is indeed a small place. It's like the Supreme Buddha. When you come here, it will be full of glory. Oh, this girl is not bad . She dares to hide from Chiquan. She's too dry. I understand, Master Li. Don't be angry, Mr. Li Humph, if your family hadn't sent you the exquisite chalcedony, I wouldn't have bothered to come to this wretched place . First of all, Mrs. Li is here. Governor of Xiajiang City, Tang Xiaotian, Jiang Chen, you are not allowed to know Jiang Chen. Amao, Li Dasha, you don't know me, Tang. But there is a big If someone wants to buy your exquisite chalcedony from the Li family and marry you, you can choose a big shot. Hahaha , who the hell dares to call yourself a big shot when I'm here? I came to Jiang Chen today to tell you, Jiang Chen people, that the Xie family will be supported by my Li family from now on . Is it Jiang Chen's fault that the Li family is domineering? Listen to this. It means that the Xie family has really found a backer this time. Yes, we can't eat meat and it's good to drink soup. What should we do? Today, Haorui Building is asking for funds to distribute the winning list. The gods are mixed up. The Li family has just destroyed Luo. God is not in a hurry . Daxia Shang The president of the alliance and I still have some friendship. Let me see if the Li family is destroyed . Mr. Sheng, do you want the Li family to live or the Li family to destroy Li Jia? Did Li Jia offend you? I will let them apologize to you . It seems that you want Li Jia to live. Then let Li Jia put the exquisite chalcedony at the auction . Don't worry, I will let them give it to you now. I never force myself. You're such a treacherous thing about plundering. I asked you to sell the exquisite chalcedony. What are you doing? Sell it to me quickly. Hey, Young Master Li, are you still selling it ? I didn't expect that there is someone who can tell Young Master Li to say goodbye. What are you laughing at? I know that woman, Mr. Li, because her man is targeting our Wang family and Xie family. Ji Heng hum, yes, Mr. Li, look at this bitch. Although she is a second-hand product, she is still on point. How about you, Mr. Li, this woman must have used Ji Heng's money to raise the sign. You must teach these adulterers a lesson. Whore, yes , I hate those How are the arrangements for Gao Rui, who is showing off even though he doesn't have much money? No one will bid specially. Don't worry. Everything has been arranged. Just wait for him to take the photo and someone will send him there. Then you can appear. In fact, you can do it in Baojian. Wait a little longer Linglong Jade Would it be better for me to send you so many bad gifts directly, or to thank Mr. Li in person? The auction will start with the first auction item, Hengrui Building Real Estate, with a base price of 10,000 building coins, 15,000, 100,000 , 100,000 once and 100,000 twice. 1 00,000 is really ridiculous! A building is sold for 100,100,000,20,000,000 , 30,000,000 , 31,000,000 , I said to you, why don't you increase it dollar for dollar? It's embarrassing. 100,110,000,000 is unintentional . You bastards, keep following us. Li Shou has plenty of money. Thank you, Mr. Xie. Why are you so anxious? 1 billion . You are trying to stand up for Ji Heng. Since you know who the big shot is, you still dare to act like this. You really don't know whether you are alive or dead. What a bullshit identity you have. Are you better than Li Shao? Still noble Come on, right? 2 billion, 2.555 billion, he is not worth that much at all . I have the final say. It's all about you. You are a bad governor. You still want to compete with Mr. Li in terms of financial resources. Mr. Li , I advise you not to be too estranged. Just accept me if you agree. 6 billion 8 billion , are you stupid? The results are announced. You two don't have to fight anymore. Miss Gao has become the lucky guest tonight. Hengrui Building has Miss Gao free of charge. What kind of lucky guest is this? You guys are obviously up to something. This is not a place where you can act wild. You are eternal. Is the group crazy ? Could it be that they have colluded with Ji Heng? Even Mr. Li dares to play tricks on Li Sheng ? Governor Tang, I reported Xie Kun in real name for slandering and spreading rumors in public . What do you think you should do ? Didn't you hear me ? Why don't you drag him away? Stop it , hey , no, Li Shaojiu Save me . Mr. Li is so panicked . There must be Governor Kantang in his heart. We need to check it carefully . Maybe we can catch a big fish . Mr. Ji, don't worry, we won't let a bad guy go . Mr. Li, he is Ji Heng. Mr. Li. Save When we fight dogs, we have to watch people. Why don't you give me face ? You are so shameless. Why should I give you face ? You are very lucky. You can get the 800 million building for free. How come you guys are working together to play tricks on me? Uh-huh . Such a mean-mouthed piece of trash The auction here is going on . It's hard for Mr. Li to spend more money and not be able to spend it. You say so, right? Li Qiming is in charge of the auction site. Boy, I'm waiting for the next auction item. The starting price of the Jiangcheng World Trade Building is 10,000 yuan. The land price is 10,000 yuan. Li Shao is careful over there. Very old If you give me 100 million, do you dare to follow 100 million, 1, 200 million ? Mr. Li is very angry. Then I will give you 200, 100, 800 million , 800 million once , 800 million twice. Why don't you dare to follow 800 million? Three transactions have been made . Mr. Li is really rich. What do you mean by thanking him so much? It's reasonable to accept Mr. Li's 800 million and thank Mr. Li . Wow, this is 800 million. Even for the Li family in Kyoto, this is a huge sum of money . Has he been cheated? It would be terrible if his family knew about it. Mr. Li, this mountain belongs to him and you are being tricked by him. Damn it, you said you kid dared to play tricks on me. Believe it or not, I will kill you. The dignified Li family in Kyoto still want to play tricks. What kind of tricks are you? It is clearly your fault to deceive Mr. Li and deceive him. Is it because he is stupid and decided to leave ? I know. You took his money? Or are you sleeping with him like those two women and looking for death ? Calm down and calm down . The auction must continue. If you dare to disrupt the auction, get out. You little loser host also dares to kick me out. Do you think you are punished? You 're awesome when you go to the Eternal Building. Believe it or not, I told you to get out with just one sentence. Know that you were wrong. Now come down and kowtow to apologize. Come to the lobby. It's really the general manager of Guozhao Eternal Group. Hey, Mr. Li, what kind of wind brought you here? Where did you find such a delicious food? The outside host and outsiders cheated me for 80 billion and dared to kick me out as a puppy. I am very angry now. The consequences will be serious . Don't worry, Mr. Li, you are such a black sheep. We will never tolerate you. Get out. I announced the auction just now. Because someone maliciously raises the price, the auction is invalid . Well, let me just say, how could the dignified young man from Kyoto not make things difficult? I don't know if I accept it when it's good , but I have to take the 800. Well, now I can't get a dime . I'm dumbfounded. You pretty boy, one of your girls is being raped. drive away Why do n't you even dare to fart ? Ah Heng, just forget it. It's okay. Don't worry. From now on, he is no longer the manager of Yongheng Group. Just treat him as a fart. Okay, Mr. Li, you think too highly of him, our boss. The dragon has seen its head but not its tail. Who are you? Do you dare to speak to me in his tone? Puppy, no need to talk nonsense to his mother. Pull him out and break his limbs . Come on , just follow Mr. Li's instructions and blind you. Dog Eyes even kneels down disrespectfully to the boss Boss, good night . He is really the boss behind the Eternal Group. He is so handsome. He is the manager of the Eternal Group. Isn't Ah Heng the same ? I'm so stupid. I thought Ah Heng just had connections . It turns out that his identity is this. I'm just a little guy. The boss of the company doesn't need to call me boss. OK, I 'm so cute . I thought you would like this brother Cheng. He's a violent bastard and can really do whatever he wants. It turns out he's a pretty boy. I uh, I announced that you are Mr. Fine Dao, why do you have to fire me? Let me go, let me go, let me auction and continue. Hahaha , that's awesome. This pretty boy can even handle a fucking foreign girl. Thank you for the compliment . By the way , your mother has seen the world. It's just a small amount of money. Hum, I heard it. Xiaoqian, please continue to ask Mr. Li to give it. Everyone is excited to see how the next auction item, Jiangcheng 108 Building, has a base price of RMB 10,000. It's so cheap. I'll offer RMB 1,000,000 to RMB 2 million . Our Wang family is determined to win the 108 Building. Can you give me RMB 5 million ? Do you still think that the Xie family is a local snake? Its owner is a wimp. 1 , 0 million 11 million, you are raising fish? If you don't have any money , just get rid of 1 billion 10 billion. I'm teasing you . Thank you , Mr. Gui Ji, for the 108 building, which is estimated to be worth 50 billion. Are you not a fool? You really think 108 is an ordinary building . But the place in Jiangcheng One of the landmark buildings is the 108 Building. If I hadn't been afraid of his revenge, I would have taken action a long time ago . It's such a big loss. If you have the guts to take another one for me, 10 billion belongs to Mr. Li and 30 billion to 50 billion belongs to Mr. Li. Just rely on your ability. Come on, come on, I've never seen anything in the world Xi's last sword slapped the screen. The exquisite chalcedony was shot slowly. Li Shao, Jin Heng, this guy is definitely determined to win over the exquisite chalcedony. Should we trick him? You're talking nonsense. You said the low price of the exquisite chalcedony was 100 million. This price is mine. If you don't agree with 1 billion, I'll lose hundreds of billions because of it. I'll make you lose money. Spit out all the profits and profits. The bottom auction price is 1 billion, 5 billion, 10 billion or more. I don't want 15 billion or 20 billion or more. I really don't want to pay you back. You want to fool me. 25 billion is fine. Since you are a 250 thing, I'll let you go first. Thank you for the auction commission from the Li family. How dare you? Why did I get this commission into your account? I forgot to tell you that I am the boss of Ziheng Yongheng Group. I just said that he is not a pretty boy. He is indeed a handsome and wealthy big boss. But what did you say? Young Master Li was raped this time. What I want to change is that I have no shame in going back to Kyoto . Bai Lian, it turns out that you directed and acted all this yourself , dear guests , don't you have an answer for a boss like this who just sets his own prices in his free time ? Don't worry, please be quiet. Mr. Li is right. Mr. Ji is not taking money so late. Are we having fun? That's right. Everyone has seen this. Why are we being treated like fools? Boss Ji still wants to kick us out. Why don't you give us an explanation for directing and acting in this show ? Don't worry, everyone. I have prepared a mysterious gift for everyone here. I will take pictures of everything tonight. Everything was re- auctioned at the lowest price I'll reward everyone with a 50% discount for those who submit. It 's a pity that Mr. Li took the most pictures. If he could also get a 50% discount , are you crazy or is he crazy ? Are you fucking trying to trick me ? Are you such a stinky bitch? I'll kill you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, you fucking dare to hit me. Not only do you dare to hit you, I also dare to beat your father to death. It's just the right time to come. These people joined forces to trick our Li family and beat me up. Even the Li family in Kyoto dared to touch me in Xiaojiang City. Today I'm right, right? We are the head of the Huo Jialong Li family. You can handle it yourself, you bastard . He wants to drag the Li family to be buried with him. Why don't you kowtow to apologize to Mr. Ha Long ? The one you need to kneel down to me is Mr. Ji. The head of the Li family, whose surname is Hui, is he the one ? You tell me what I should do and what I shouldn't say . You should know it in your own mind. You bastard, Li Kang, the head of the Magic family, has met Mr. Sheng. The head of the Li family remembers to discipline his children if they are not sensible. The Li family knows they are wrong. Sir, I'm willing to give everything I've obtained before, and I'll give you all the things you bought. You don't need it. The Eternal Group is also open for business. I only want exquisite chalcedony to be traded fairly. Dad, why do you shut up, you bastard? You dare to take other people's things. Thank you sir for taking all the things. Reply to the Li family, you are quite sensible. There is no need to read it for the time being. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Remember , get out of Jiangcheng and send Mr. Ji off to Mr. Ji. Brother Ji, you are so handsome. Congratulations. Give Jesse a celebratory kiss tonight. Dear Buddha, thank you for your hard work. Oh no, you know I don't need this , then I will Let's go first. Hey, don't go. You take this. This is the equity book of Hengrui Building. Remember, this is just for you. If your mother and your brother interfere , I have the right to take back the woman who is not worthy of me, Ji Heng, even if she is the former one. Women can't be bullied by anyone. So how could I forget? Boss Jesse , the Xie family's property has been handed over to Xiaoman. Brother Ji, I just said it casually. I don't really want it . Ji Hao, will you leave Jiangcheng? That's right. Brother Ji, you shouldn't be leaving in a short time. I shouldn't be guilty, is that true? That's great. Mr. Li, huh, fucking bitch. It's all your fault and that idiot Xie Kun for causing me to make a fool of myself there. Mr. Li, please be gentle. I don't know . I didn't know that the energy behind Fei Wu was so great. I didn't know he was the president of Yongheng Group. Mr. Li blames that old loser of mine. I will get back this situation sooner or later . The woman next to Ji Heng today, Mr. Li, what you mean is what I mean is that I am very angry now. I ask you, do you want Ji Hen to die? I can't even dream of it. I think I want him to die right now. I know a friend who will definitely kill him whenever he meets Ji Hen. But now I still lack a chance. Mr. Li, I have a way. Ji Heng and that woman will definitely talk to that old guy Wang Dezhao. As long as he dies, the two of them will definitely show up for the boss. I think it won't be long before you can get a brand new ring. Because Jesse is here to take action , go ahead and stop being disabled. Hey Brother Ji, Grandpa, Grandpa, him. I'm dying . Come here and let me in . I want to see grandpa . Miss, you can't go in now . I want to see grandpa. Let me in. Brother Ji, you're here and you're blind. The head of the Wang family, get away from you. The old head of the family is dead . His identity has been revoked. It's impossible for grandpa to be fine before. He can't possibly die. Let me go in and get out of here. Hum, the old man should have died a long time ago. Instead of letting you lose all your family property , why don't you let me take over? He's obviously already done it. Okay, there must be something fishy in this. He deliberately used words to provoke you and not let us see your grandpa . There must be something wrong here. What nonsense are you talking about? Get out of here , grandpa. What are you doing? The old guy is already dead. Of course, he will be burned. Pull down Xiaoman and don't touch you. Tell me what happened just now. Are you mad at him? Yes, it's his hometown. I heard that he broke up the company and he was mad to death. Now, as the new head of the Wang family, I will kill you. Are you anxious to throw the blame and secretly send the old man away ? Are you afraid that I will find out that you conspired to kill Mr. Wang? Are you spewing blood ? What kind of poison is this ? I can't recognize it. No, it's not me. It's not me . General Wang forced me to say it. How dare you slander my father and me, bastard The funeral home's car has been called. We can take the old guy Ji Heng, you, you, why are you here? I'm here to save people. Why are you waiting for me to come ? What nonsense are you talking about ? The old guy is already dead. This is the family background of our Wang family. You are one. Why are outsiders mingling with you? If you weren't a thief, Why do you feel so guilty ? You don't even dare to look at me. Sure enough, the poison hasn't spread yet. Can you save me ? Grandpa, what's wrong ? Your lips are purple and black, your nails are blue and black. This is clearly a sign of severe poisoning. The symptoms are more severe than before. You are such a courageous dog. You are worse than any beast . Dare to harm your own biological father by talking nonsense. This is obviously a relapse from fish poison. The nonsense I am saying to you is obviously because you are not good at studying. You clearly said that you can cure grandpa, but he still dies in the end. It is all your fault. No, it is the good wife and brother who have saved grandpa. Grandpa is already well. Fart, you are eating the inside and outside. Shut up , you idiot She is worthy of being the head of the Wang family. The old man and woman are dead. You can't even try to take away the Wang family's property from me. Who said that the old man is dead ? You mean, grandpa can still be saved. Of course, fart, the old man just vomited so much blood and is already dead. I understand . Do you admit it or not? It doesn't matter, a murderous father like you My dear , you are such a bastard. What do you want to do? Of course, save people. I don't agree that the old guy is dead . You are insulting the corpse and are treasonous. I am now the head of the Wang family. I have the final say here and I can fart with just one of your elbows. A kidnapped little girl is worthy of being a member of the Wang family What is the owner still doing? The old man is dead. It's impossible to arrest him quickly . Why is he alive again ? It's all fake . The old man is dead. Although the old man is suffering from bone poison , he is just in suspended animation due to my previous care. In fact, he is not. Life is cut off. What are you waiting for ? What's wrong with my coconut juice? The little spirit dog is so brave that he dares to act like a monster in front of me. Ji Hang, you piece of shit, I think you clearly want to delay the cremation of the old man. You just don't want him to rest in peace. That's right, Wang Xiaoman , you are. What are you unfilial girls doing in such a hurry? Don't you want to see Mr. Wang wake up? You fart bastard , you are clearly tormenting the old man. Huh, this is called Yang pole Yin Sheng , Yin pole Yang Sheng, from Yin to Yang, from Yang to Yin. What is the sound? Like the sound of a bell, Dugu, Dian Kingdom, belongs to Yin . All you need to do is to mobilize the Yang Qi of Mr. Wang himself. He can take acupuncture to treat the serious illness of the left, left and right. He can cure the head-throwing person. The meeting of the Yangs will come out. Grandpa, can you wake up? Grandpa, Dad, are you okay? Your results are so good, I'm so scared. Grandpa, are you two bastards just looking forward to my early death? No, no, I didn't. I forgot to tell you that my acupuncture technique is special. When the old man pretends to be dead, he can hear with his ears and his brain. I'm awake , no, grandpa, not me, he, it's my father who came to coerce me. I don't want to harm you. I really don't want to harm you . Don't make any nonsense . It's obviously the person you brought back who said he could kill the old man and Ji Heng . Now, instead, he's framed me. I'll kill you. Stop it. You two will clean the toilets in the company from today on for the rest of your life. If you stretch out your hand and it's a stove, I'll play with you. Hey, I'll hate you. You're really different from your arrogant master. What are you talking about? You have seen my master , hahaha, of course you have. After all, he died at the hands of our Bone Poison lineage. Boy, you destroyed the Five Poison Divine Bones that I worked so hard to refine . Today, I must make you pay with blood, Prime Minister Holy Hands. Sir , Sir, what are your orders? In the ancient times of Zhenguo, even if you were in Jiangcheng in broad daylight, you could do harm to your Dragon Temple. What did you do to eat ? Damn it. Our Dragon Temple has neglected its duties. This man is very dangerous . He must be killed on the spot. How dare the barbarian Huawai humiliate me The heroic land of Huangshan is grabbing a knife and killing him at all costs. Hahahahaha, Sir, it's not good. What are you talking about? You scared away my little baby. It's not too late for the elder to be angry. It's not too late to listen to what he has to say. The God of Five Poisons smashed his head. There must be something wrong with Mr. Gu Ya. Why the hell didn't you tell me to contact Gu Yang immediately ? What the hell did this guy do? If so, when the hell did Guzhuang notify him? No phone calls Sure , Junior Brother Huya has already sent a message. How's it going ? Great news. Someone from the True Dragon Saint Hand line has appeared again. We have another chance to get the True Dragon, which generally refers to the super manpower. We can go to Jiangcheng. You two idiots asked three questions and did n't know what to do. I don't even know where the other person came from. Xiaoman, I'll go collect the legacy later. Please tell me, grandpa, this is not good , just do it like this. It has been 3 days, and you can't even catch a cripple? Damn it under the tree. Please give me some more time. The Dragon Temple will definitely not let this person escape from this meeting. We mainly feed the chickens. Brother , you are looking for me. It seems that you are also a busy man now. So I will give you a long message. In short, it's not very safe recently. I'll pick you up after work. I'll be your personal bodyguard. What's going on? There will be a fierce battle . Well , I'll wait for you. The chairman's meeting can start. I think this subversion of the prince's investment is still happening. We need to study their plan this time, Chairman, I think. I need to remind you that shopping malls are like battlefields. You'd better not add your personal emotions to the company's affairs. Don't talk about me. You just do things well. Remember, whoever comes from death is Han Jian. I gave you face, didn't I? Don't forget your identity. If you don't want to do it, just get out of here. You are the chairman. Is there any news about Bone Ya? Let me report back to everyone. Bone Ya is being chased by Shenlong Temple. He is still insidious now , but Lord Ghost has already got a clue. Don't fight. Don't fight. You have found the wrong person. Stop talking nonsense. Where is the successor of the True Dragon Saint Hand? Why is Master Long pretending to be stupid? Can you ? Can't you give me some hints? What we are looking for is the man who discovered the bones and teeth . Huya . I know . I know that you are from Dian. If you don't talk nonsense, I will kill you. All your teeth have been pulled out. I don't know if you are going to trouble that bastard Jianheng. If we are late, we will definitely cooperate with that bastard Jianheng. He teamed up with the little bitch to frame us. We are still cleaning the toilet every day. I don't agree with him. Dai, God, I know you are looking for Huya, right? I, I can give you the role of Nei Ying Jinheng, that bastard who spends all day with his woman. If they are mixed together, they will go to the company one day. Since you are still useful, just go back and clean the toilet. When I need you to provide information, I will naturally contact you. As long as you make the decision for me, I will definitely drag them away when I find the Wang family again. Go down, spare your life, spare your life, spare your life, spare your life, the Valley of Five Poisons has been destroyed , this grudge will kill the great elder, regardless of whether he is a descendant of the Holy Hand or not. Don't worry, God Valley is gone and re-refined. The top priority now is to determine whether the descendants of the Holy Hand have the inherited holy objects. This is very important. Tongxin Valley, who do you want to control? I, the Dian Kingdom, originally intended to attack the Daxiang Zaotou Building. Many wealthy nobles in the city. Those women from the Wang family are very nice . Go and send Wang Lu to my room. It's His Royal Highness, the chairman. Hahaha , it's me, Mr. Ji. Brother, thank you for coming to accompany me today. In the past two days, I have been accelerating the annexation of the Xie family's property. Does anyone know? This is my office. Who allows you to come in ? Go out. I have something important to report to the rest of the crowd. So I 'd better go down first. Isn't this urgent document asking you to go out more important than you fooling around with a wild man ? How did you let me tell you about the huge family fortune of the Wang Group? I don't know how many more days I can survive if I leave it in the hands of an ignorant girl like you. Can you afford the loss caused by the company missing this big order ? You are deaf and I want you to get out. Where did you come from? What the fuck do you want to show your face? Do you knock on the door first or do you want me to teach you? Who the fuck do you think you are? How dare you beat up the group director ? It doesn't matter who I am. You just need to You know, I am the bodyguard responsible for taking care of the chairman's life. Isn't there something wrong? I knocked on the door and delayed the group keys. Just wait until you pack up and get out , right? Chairman, behave well . That's right. Han Jian, if you don't want to do it anymore , you can leave the royal family at any time. The royal family group of the Wang family and I am the family chairman of the family. The royal group does not lack you alone. Chairman Dian Guo's investment plan All the examinations have been completed . Do you need to send it in to you? Wang Xiaoman, you really have a good temper. The chairman's style is really good. Your Highness , why are you here in person? The beautiful lady is bumping down. Prince Gu Yue is happy to meet you, the hero. What are you doing? What are you going to do? Quickly let go, Brother Qi. What 's going on ? Take care of this waste. His Highness finally came to invest in our royal family . It 's just that His Highness the Prince turned out to be a guest and you actually lost your etiquette. Wang Lu , weren't you women kicked out of the Wang family by your grandfather and went to clean the toilet? Face thing If the affair reaches the Great Xia Embassy, you will be a sinner accused by all. Is he your father? Are you so eager to kneel down and lick me? You, a little bodyguard, know nothing. Your Highness, you are a foreign friend. We should treat Li Li Li with courtesy. Li, look at the size of your mother. What is this? He wants to release poisonous insects to harm people. I don't care what this is. It's not okay to attack foreign friends. Then I'll reward you. Wait a minute. Okay, then I'll reward you. It's scary. That's my favorite pet. You dare to kill His Highness the Prince's beloved pet. It 's so abominable. This is a serious diplomatic incident . If you recognize your father, go home and recognize the face of the Great Xia Kingdom. Your face has been completely disgraced by a weakling like you. Huh, you pissed me off. Someone else raised you. Dog , you have a strong taste for raising insects. What do you say? I say what you want. If it weren't for this skin, you would have died a long time ago. I tell you, anyone who does evil things in Daxia will kill you. How do you want to die? You, a pariah, dare to treat our prince. You also dare to be rude to Brother Ji. Do you know? How much thought we put into I just asked His Highness the Prince to come over to invest. I want to see how you tell the board of directors that His Highness the Prince should shut up and be united. No wonder Wang Lu can't let go of anyone else . This prince's qualifications are still high. Hey , why aren't you here to discuss investment? you We make me very unhappy. This matter is over. Let it go. Is the land of my building for you to come and leave when you want? Is the land of my building for you to come and leave when you want? Uh-huh, 10 billion 10 billion lunatic wants to open his mouth. 10 billion do you think Who are you? Well, for 10 billion, I'll let you down first. Sooner or later, I'll have to pay you back a hundred times . Brother Ji, this kind of signature has no actual effect . Yes, our group has lost such a big customer in vain. Humph , just wait. The quilt Stop doing what I want, even if it's not written in black and white, he still has to give it to me. Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, the great elder Ji Heng is the descendant of the lineage of the True Dragon Saint Hand. It's absolutely true. I have a plan, but it requires a small price. You let Junior Brother Huya Brother Ji, the Dian Kingdom really transferred 10 billion. You are so amazing. Well, he knows what is going on. Otherwise, what happened to Mr. Shen? The news can't be found in the Dianguo stock market, but what's going on? Even though Master Holy Hand's poisonous corpse was beheaded, he released poisonous poison before he died, polluting the water source, and poisoning too many people. Please help me save Li Ming. Prepare your car and leave . What happened to Brother Ji? I have nothing to do, waiting for me at home. Well, your acupuncture skills are really superb. It only took half a day to cure all the patients . I represent the people. The people thank you for your great kindness. Sir, please make it more popular. Sir, have you seen any clues? The scope of this ancient poison pollution seems to be very large and hurts a lot of people, but there is no one dead. It is really strange . That is you, sir. It shouldn't be, but it seems like you're wasting my time . Sir, Wheat is missing. Why don't you send more people soon? Even if Jiangcheng is turned over, I still have to find him. Follow the order and immediately search for Prince Gu Yue of the Dian Kingdom. This matter must have something to do with him . Is everything here to distract you ? The Dragon God Guards will immediately blockade Jiangcheng after the order and search with all their strength. No need to hide. Let me see where else you can hide and what you are going to do. You bitch man destroyed my most cherished pet just to make you obey. It took a lot of effort to re-refine it. Enjoy it, be good . I want you to charm Ji Heng. From Ji Heng's hand, he got the inherited sacred object of the Holy Dragon Hand, the True Dragon Jade Finger Ring. Your Highness , I followed your instructions and deceived this woman. come here Why did you forget to reward me? You bitch, shut up and give up. The land of my building is for you to come and leave whenever you want. Damn, blackmail me for 10 billion. I want your woman to be the meanest bitch and rape Han. Call me fat pig Come here, doesn't he like this bitch? Let him enjoy the good work. Your Highness, you will only offend the descendants of the Holy Hand to death. So what if you offend me? As long as you can get the True Dragon Jade Ring, the ancient tree of Dian Kingdom will reach a new level. ha Haha, you slut is cheating with a bodyguard. Let me go . I want to taste what it's like to be the chairman. Let me go. Haha , what are you doing looking for death ? This is my territory. Brother Qi, do n't be afraid. I'm here with you. How do you want to die ? Let's go. Don't move Listen to my explanation. Who is instigating your bastard? If you don't reply quickly, sir, it's Wang Lu. He's a bitch who has always been blamed by the Wang Group , so he attracted me. He said that as long as Wang Xiaoman is gone, he can become the next head of the family, so I deserve to die, but I never thought about killing people. Is there any king's law here in Daxia ? Wang 's law . I am the king's law . Your Excellency, go and arrest Wang Lu immediately. No need. This is what the Prince of Dian Kingdom did using the childish poison. You continue to be Xiaoman. Let's go home. Sir, how come you can't even remove the poison from Miss Wang's body ? Isn't it that there are no insect eggs now? The hatching cannot be forced out by ordinary methods. Miss Wang, she is fine. The eggs have been suppressed by me with acupuncture and it will only take a few days to be expelled from the body. What the ancient corpse of Zhenguo wants is nothing more than this adult. They are like a group of rats in the ditch. Before we knew them, just one ancient corpse could poison dozens of people in Jiangcheng. So we lured the snake out of the hole and followed the clues to find opportunities. Do you need to catch all the rats from Dian Kingdom ? Someone is using them as bait to lure them. Sir , I can. I have the ability to suppress the Gu insects and replace Miss Wang. No need . By the way, pay attention to the reserves at Gao Rui. They will definitely not give up. It is obvious that the plan is almost successful. Why is that bastard Ji Heng so so? Go back soon. What are you doing for food? Are you questioning me? Mr. Gu sacrificed his life for your plan, so you didn't succeed. Humph, it didn't work . My plan was never that bitch. What did you say , Mr. Li? What's the situation over there? Gao Rui can take action at any time. Gao Rui's younger brother is greedy for money. Idiot, keep humming . The hero is in danger now. The Dragon Temple and the Holy Queen are in danger. We are in danger of being exposed at any time if we fail this time. Don't worry, this plan is foolproof. According to the investigation, although Gao Rui is Ji Heng's ex-wife , he received the building as a gift from Ji Heng. This is clearly a form of cultivation. Lover, as long as my fellow star can successfully seduce Ji Heng, let me Is there any news that he willingly handed over the True Dragon Jade Finger Feed ? Yes, it is exactly as expected by Master Shengshou. Their target this time has been changed to Miss Gao. Don't worry, all of Laidi have been killed. What's the situation with Miss Gao Rui? Because he was frightened, Croft was a little injured . I'll be here soon, sir. Miss Gao was frightened. I'm scared. We haven't had time to check her body. We don't know if she was poisoned. No need to apologize. Are you okay? Why are you here ? You're fine. You 're focused and your attitude toward me hasn't changed much. It's not that hard. It's okay. I just came to see you No. 7. Hey trash, what bad idea did you come up with? It just hurts people and doesn't agree with them. I haven't been able to control that bitch yet. That's what you told me. Who said the plan failed? He can still escape the control just waiting for the Gu worms to hatch, let alone a few people die . Even if they are all dead, as long as he can get the True Dragon Jade. It's worth it if you pull your fingers. As long as you wait for the right time, you can naturally summon the bitch controlled by the concentric Gu . Come and listen to my orders, Xiaomai. What's wrong with you? Hahahaha. It 's so successful. Ji Heng is actually a half-assed person and didn't remove my bones. What do you mean he can successfully control the little bitch of the Wang family ? Of course, we will return to Yunnan as soon as we get the real dragon jade ring . If the country dares to collude with Shenlong Temple to get us, they will be in Nantianmen and Shenlong Temple Wouldn't it be very clever of the Li family to fight another battle and see how they deal with it? I'll notify them if they find someone to evacuate. I don't believe that the Dragon Temple dares to risk the world and not make arrangements for you. Hurry up and make sure that the real dragon jade is broken and send it to the great elder immediately. Don't worry , I'll take people there to fight to the death to get back the thumb ring. What age are you idiots? Let that bitch take photos first to make sure it's safe before going to get Brother Ji. This ring is so beautiful. Can I take a look? Of course, you know. This ring can only be worn by my beloved. Hahahaha. Yes, it's the one he used to be the True Dragon Saint. My ancestors sealed my martial arts lineage in order to suppress my martial arts. Only the martial saints of my lineage Get this true dragon jade finger to unlock the holy martial arts. The Wudu divine fruit is just a defense. Yes, the night is long and the dream is too long. Let's just take the things and leave. Who cares about the Wang family and the Li family's life and death rivals. Call the sword master over now. I want it immediately. Get that True Dragon Jade Ring . Once I get it, you will be useless. The only one in the stock market lineage is Only I can control the power. The fish took the bait. Del Rey gave me something without any effort. Only I can carry forward the line of beautiful ancient poetry. I see who of you dares to touch you. You have a poisonous old thing on your hand. Just keep it here to wait for death. Real dragon. The holy relic inherited from the Holy Hand is gone. Wouldn't it be nice if you just stay here and let them vent their anger ? Huh huh huh Uh, who are you to kill you? Wonderful death is imminent. There is internal strife . It is interesting. Sir, I am lucky to have worked so hard. It is impossible and impossible to go wrong. It is just a mere blockage . Where is the master of the Holy Hand ? If you take out this ancient city and die, they will definitely be noticed by them. Only my holy hand and the true method can give him one hour of memory. Sir, please give it to me, you idiot . Gu's haze is going to be ruined in your hands today. I'll beat you and you'll die. I'll tell you to die. You're the one who's old. You 're the one who wants to come to the building. Watch me take all the old stuff to hide it for the stock market. Then help me. Once, eh , Ji Hang, you don't know yet, right? Your master was killed by this old guy and gave it to you. What does it have to do with my master's death? Yes, that old guy died in my hands, and so did you. The true dragon and holy beast's veins will be cut off from now on. Anyone who dares to purge me within seven steps will die within seven steps. The gun is faster, your lack of martial ethics is an irreconcilable hatred of the master. Even if we go to the ends of the earth, I will let the ancestor's line be cut off from now on, sir. We found that the Prince of Dian Kingdom dropped this when he was escaping . We also found Miss Gao on the edge. We found it . Damn it, you actually bewitched Xiao Ran too. Hahaha . It seems that this bitch is quite important to you . Hahaha. If you don't want him to die, just let me go. I can also tell you how to treat him, otherwise he's just a poor man. As a descendant of the Holy Hand, I am not afraid . Hmm, how did you know that the bone staff has been broken? Yeah, haha. Forcibly deworming will cause blockage in the body that cannot be cleared. Since you know the Tongxingu, you should know its powerful side effects. It will amplify the feelings of the recipient. Those who love love more and those who hate hate more. I am very confident in my woman 7 Brother, let's take care of it. Xiaorui , please take a rest first. I'll wait for someone to send you back. I want to sign it. You can return the jade ring to me. It's the inheritance certificate of my lineage. Only my wife is worthy of it. You're not worthy of Ji Heng. Please don't pester me again. Gao Rui, what do you mean? Now that you have chosen him, don't come to me again. You make me feel sick like this . Gao Rui, are you really determined to change your mind ? Do you still want to be in two boats? Are you just wishful thinking ? Do you hate me more or love me more ? Damn Jiheng, I didn't expect him to be here. The Dragon Temple actually has such prestige. Why did you come to me? Why are you afraid that I will get in trouble? You are like a fucking grasshopper on a rope. No one can live without anyone. If you are sensible , think of a way to send me out. Hero , I will go find someone to arrange it. Wait, I will definitely be there when I go back this time . In the battle between Nantianmen and Dragon Temple, do you want to take this opportunity to get rid of Ji Heng ? He must die now. As long as your Li family provides the deployment of Nantianmen, Ji Heng will definitely come to rescue us after we defeat the Dragon Temple . At that time, this is a fucking treason . Your Li family will definitely gain huge benefits . Don't you want the Li family to become a mansion? The first family? Xiaoman, who are you? It's really hard to dress up my bodyguard for the boss . Don't move around. Hey Lord Holy Hand, Nantianmen, tell me what's going on. The villains from the Dian Kingdom should be damned . They dare to invade my building. Nantianmen , wait for me to go. I will kill all the offenders. Xiaoman, you. You have your responsibility, I won't stop Xiaoman, thank me As long as you come back safely, it'll be fine. I'll wait for you, Xiaoman, and wait for me to come back. How about we go get engaged? Well, dear Miss Wang, you don't have to worry about the news coming from the boss's Nantianmen. The boss has led the Dragon Temple to return to attack. I don't know how much news the real dragon's skills have shown. Are people uneasy ? That's good, that's good. The latest news from our station is that the frontline headquarters outside Nantianmen suddenly suffered a cluster fire attack. The traitors have betrayed the news. A hundred miles away has been reduced to scorched earth. There is no news about the Dragon Temple and the True Dragon Master. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha dead Okay, a good death hahaha We can finally leave this hellish place. Come and take over the 108 Building right away, Master . I'm going to spend the night there tonight. Well , Master, that 108 Building belongs to the Eternal Group and we can't afford it . Well, you bought it with my money. Jihang, you die. I want to see who dares to follow . I'm going to get out of here, yes , yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, hey , come on, I want everyone in Jiang Chen to know that I, Li Qiming, must get back the things I lost , and listen to the young master's orders, hahaha, the interest owed by Ji Heng should be paid back to Hengrui Building 108 Building or even I want to take back the Eternal Group. Are you? Who dares to break in ? We belong to the Li family in Kyoto. From today on, this real estate has been taken back by our young master. You should quickly pack your things and get out immediately. Otherwise, this Jiangcheng will be your burial place. The Li family, Li Qiming, is crazy. He doesn't know this is the case. Is it Ji Heng's territory, our young master? You may not know that my name is also yours . Ji Heng, that idiot, has already died at Nantianmen. Are you talking nonsense? Hahaha, how could Ah Heng die ? Don't you know how to read the news? You idiot, let 's go. The young master is still waiting for us to go back to watch the celebration banquet. Hahahaha Hey aunt, let me tell you good news Ji Heng That bastard is dead, hahaha. Thanks to your lord, Ruchen, who knew what was going on, moved our position early. Otherwise, we might all have perished in a sea of fire. Thank you, lord, for your help. It's no need. The top priority now is to find the traitor and defend the siege. What your lord said was to wait until he was found. Whoever it is, I will definitely kill it with my own hands He has cut the enemy into pieces with thousands of swords. Now that he has attacked the wrong target, he will definitely be very lax. This is a just act of counterattack, and he will attack the enemy's lair. For our Jiangxi diplomacy, he will definitely beat the shit out of the Dian people. Now that the victory is determined , I will leave this place to you. I want to go home. Look at the great contribution you have made, sir. Don't tell me that all the credit and my achievements will be received by your Dragon Temple. If you are willing to wait , other than the prince of the Dian Kingdom, you can come and have a drink of my wedding wine. Don't worry , my Dragon Temple will definitely kill the royal family of the Dian Kingdom to cheer you up. Congratulations, sir . I will send it to you. Uh -huh, sir, your damaged phone has It 's troublesome after recovery . I dare not stop being so angry. I also want to invite you to be the master of ceremonies at my wedding. How dare you tell your subordinates not to die from your house? What are you doing ? It's your blessing that my sister, Mr. Li, can like you. It 's my Gao family's take-off. I have the opportunity to sacrifice you Gao Zhe again for the Gao family. That bastard, Feng Shanshan, quickly gag him. Don't disturb Young Master Li's mood for a while. Hey, Young Master, stop it. How can you treat Ji Heng's woman like this? Little cutie, wait until the dinner is over. Come and taste it. You let me taste it and remember the grudge. What a woman feels like hahahahaha Master Li, you have plenty of time tonight. You can enjoy this little girl slowly. Hahahaha. Welcome all Jiang Chen's elites to my Li family's family banquet. Hahaha. Thank you, Master Li, for inviting you. Didn't you know that there is another party for today's dinner? The protagonist didn't come, oh, that person didn't come. I felt a little sorry for him. Hahahaha. I know this person is Ji Heng, this trash. He maliciously interfered with our Wang family's family background, and now he deserves to die. He is the king of Ji Heng. Eight eggs have bullied our mother and son, so you should die, you are not afraid that Brother Ji will come back to clean up you? Pack him up and become a ghost hunting to clean me hahahahahaha haha, you are young , you must be the master for us. This woman is based on He Jingheng I got the position of the head of the Wang family and a Haihua Hotel. If you are willing to make the decision for us, we are willing to pay half of the shares of the Wang family. I have to take care of this. This is my Wang family. Why do you care ? Hahaha, what the hell, I am Jiang Chen's sky. Who said that even if I'm in Jiang Chen, the sky will collapse. Who said that if I'm in Jiangcheng, the sky will collapse. You're actually not dead . You colluded with the Dian people to harm me. Xianan Tianmen was defeated. You are talking nonsense, you bastard, and you dare to quibble about colluding with foreign invaders. Your Li family must die for you , brother Xie. Don't be afraid. I am here to arrest all these traitors and execute them for treason . He is the one who forced us. It has nothing to do with us, Tian Heng. I We are wrong . Yes, he forced us to target Xiaoman. The right one is him , you fucking fart. Yes , he is threatening us. It has nothing to do with us. Yes, uncle, I have always wanted to see you. You kill me, hahaha. You bunch of bitches Gao Rui still He's tied up upstairs hahahaha A bunch of dogs can't change their shit eating habits Pull them down and execute them all Don't kill me Don't kill me Don't kill me Don't kill me You dare to kill me Please spare your life Xiaoman Will you marry me Haha Hahahahahaha