In September 1978, Bulgarian writer and dissident for the BBC. Almost ten years earlier, he had defected to Bulgaria, which was ruled by an authoritarian One day on his way to work, Markov felt a It seemed that a passerby had hit him with But over the next few hours, it became clear Markov proceeded to experience fever, muscle He was admitted to the hospital, but within [1] When medical experts conducted an autopsy, administered a deadly toxin directly into one of the world's most deadly plants. There are many dangerous plants in the world. There's the manchineel tree that grows in and which is so toxic that if you stand under A tree that grows in Southeast Asia, the pong-pong, because of the toxicity of its fruit. In the southwestern Indian state of Kerala, of all plant poisonings, and is thought to and 1999 alone. [2] Even tobacco is a deadly plant, considering of illnesses related to smoking. But there are two plants in particular that for thousands of years--the castor bean plant Both of them are so toxic that eating just be enough to kill an adult within a couple And yet the very chemicals that make deadly have also been found to contain valuable pharmacological They're used in everything from cancer treatments What makes these plants so unbelievably deadly? And how on earth did we figure out the positive causing a lot of accidental poisonings? Ricin is one of the most toxic compounds produced from political assassinations, like in the like "Breaking Bad." Thanks to the ubiquity of the shrub that it also one of the most common biological agents in biocrimes. What's most remarkable about the plant are A large plant can produce 150,000 seeds every as well as a deadly poison. Each seed is about 50% oil, which has been But the seeds also contain ricin, a poison an adult. [3] Ricin is one of the most poisonous naturally-occurring someone, and how it affects the body, depends [4] Inhaling ricin and having it injected into it. The lethal dose for inhalation of ricin is dose for oral consumption is 20mg/kg. This is because ricin works by inactivating and proteins that create all the proteins Without ribosomes, cells die--and ricin causes One molecule of ricin toxin can inactivate [5] When ricin enters the body, it affects whichever That means if it's inhaled, it destroys inflammation, and necrotizing pneumonia. Basically, your lungs are destroyed and you And ricin powder attacks have been attempted containing ricin being sent to the US Senate [6] Things aren't much better if you ingest diarrhea, ulcers along your GI tract, and But because doctors can treat those symptoms Would-be murderers in the US, the UK, and to extract ricin, and the FBI will even investigate on their property. Even processing the seeds for oil can come A manufacturing plant in Brazil, one of the than 150 cases of bronchial asthma, including When health officials investigated the incident, castor bean had sickened the workers. [7] Given how deadly ricin is, it should come investigated its use as a chemical weapon. The United States War Department researched spray on the battlefield, or to coat bullets But ricin is unstable under heat, limiting And even though the US conducted more tests deployed. [8] Treaties on the use of bacteriological and ricin-but that doesn't mean governments In the 1980s, Iraq aerosolized ricin and tested used it for warfare. But ricin is much less toxic than botulinum for mass murder. That's why it's become one of the poisons But another plant lurks in the forests of more deadly. Atropa belladonna, sometimes known as the as plenty of our edible favorites, like tomatoes, But even though the purple berries of the are far from being safe for consumption. They contain multiple dangerous alkaloids, a long history of being used in poisonings. Even their scientific name suggests how dangerous According to Greek mythology, the three Fates Lachesis measured the thread of destiny at by cutting the thread. [9] Yet even though deadly nightshade was used it also had its place in medicine. Renaissance women put it in their eyes to still use today to dilate the eyes. It was used to bring on delirium and hallucinations, made by witches, and helped in treating pain Clearly, even before the discovery of organic about these deadly plants: the dose makes While castor beans deliver all their toxicity deadly nightshade includes more of a cocktail, and scopolamine. Both act on neurotransmitters, and target Normally, this chemical carries messages between When it gets to the end of a synapse, it binds of roles, from regulating heart rate to stimulating Atropine and scopolamine are acetylcholine with acetylcholine for access to that connection the body. When these toxins bind to the acetylcholine transmitting messages between the nervous And this causes a whole host of problems. [11] The body's temperature regulation is thrown The pupils of the eye dilate, sometimes to Salivation is suppressed, causing extreme And patients might exhibit delirium, hallucinations, The plant itself was famously used to poison some scholars think it's what gave Juliet play "Romeo and Juliet." But once the chemical atropine was isolated used in poisonings. One of the most bizarre episodes happened Biologist Paul Agutter was able to get atropine use it to poison his wife. Because the chemical is extremely bitter, the poison, leaving some of the bottles at the most heavily dosed bottle home to make Multiple people fell ill with atropine poisoning, wife. Fortunately, her gin and tonic was so bitter and was able to survive. [12] This kind of poisoning is rare, since atropine than ricin is from castor beans. But the other chemical in the plant, scopolamine, poison because it's used in robberies and After the victim is dosed, they become highly the event-making it much easier for the [13] But, surprisingly, the properties of both that make them so dangerous can be harnessed to panacea. Although deadly nightshade and the castor play a big role in medicine and other industries. Castor bean especially is a valuable commodity, Soybeans have 15 to 20 % oil, and sunflower have 40 to 55% oil. [14] And the chemical properties of the oil mean temperatures, so it is especially good at It's one of the best oils for racing and What's more, researchers have found that even more effective than plants like corn to be used in bioremediation, to clean up metals like copper and lead. [15] Deadly nightshade also has a role to play in more extreme cases. Atropine and scopolamine have all been modified sedation and pain relief during childbirth, drug. And atropine has one particularly surprising poisoning. In a healthy individual, acetylcholine's This keeps acetylcholine levels regulated But nerve gasses like sarin, soman, and VX Therefore, acetylcholine builds up out of This causes excessive production of fluids, problems. But atropine can work to fix this. Because atropine blocks acetylcholine receptors, Even if a lot of acetylcholine builds up between [16] So while nerve agents are extremely lethal, quickly administered--just like Nicholas after being exposed by nerve gas. That said, its a very tricky balance. There's a possibility of atropine poisoning it without being exposed to nerve gas. Duri ng the Gulf War, atropine auto-injectors a gas attack, and nearly 300 cases of children Luckily, there were no fatalities. [17] All this is to say that both these plants purposes. And plenty of people get poisoned just from plants, so remember to never, ever eat something you know what it is, and that it's safe. Learning what these plants look like is the In fact, learning in general evolved as a And we can even use learning for other things I personally, have dabbled in learning from when I dust off some neurons. It helps me in my work, it helps me to gain of the big, scary, complicated world that And to really knock the cobwebs out, I use Brilliant dot org is the best way to learn There are thousands of lessons, from foundational networks and more, all of which I have used There are also in depth courses for things fundamentals course. I have a vague memory of taking geometry first And it turns out, geometry is pretty important When planning a garden, redesigning your bathroom, geometry is literally everywhere. So lately I have enjoyed diving in to the strengthen these skills. The course is sometimes challenging, but Brilliant - instead they give you an in depth explanation learn from your mistakes. Its easy to learn in this low pressure environment, doing. The interactivity of Brilliant is my favorite I love learning new things, while moving little and levers that really show me how things of text. To try everything Brilliant has to offer--free--for or click on the link in the description. The first 200 people will get 20% off Brilliant's up immensely helps this channel.