today I need to help Ronaldo but every time I score, a player this means if we scored 10 Ronaldo might be the only one but that's only if we win if at any point we are I have to cut up this as the prophecy was clearly not fulfilled now I've randomized the World Cup with Germany Japan and Switzerland and we're playing Switzerland first and with that kick Ronaldo's Ronaldo would get a good chance in the 14th minute that's a ball... can this be 1-0? but the Swiss defence weren't good move - shoot! we would get one more chance Ronaldo... through he's through! shoot! 1-0! right at the 45th minute hit the SIU - no he disappeared! Danilo's gone! now Danilo may have disappeared this is him dribbling right now and now for the rest of the tournament now with like 10 minutes left in the match I don't need to score another goal look at the strength on Loao no! right when I said that of course and that's it we've won our first group match 1-0 our next match is against Germany they also won their first group match, but that's Danilo right there! things got off to a shaky start for Portugal oh no, well done Ruben Diaz oh look at the press! that would have been horrible we can't afford any mistakes Germany is a much better team than Switzerland and the last thing we want is to have two more but we quickly flip the pressure onto Germany Ronaldo, Ronaldo, Ronaldo - cut in! finish! we have a 1-0 lead! but which player is disappearing wait it's none of the players I see all the outfield players... hold on our keeper's invisible now! I guess it's okay... I don't know, I don't know how this is gonna go hopefully we don't get into any penalty shootouts oh no they're about to test no no you would have saved! he's completed his first all right we've survived the this is the highest difficulty so there's with only a couple minutes left in the now if we win this match we won't have oh no oh no no no NOO! 89th minute oh that hurts I was bringing out Rui Patricio I just wonder how close our okay 1-1 in our second match I'm not - obviously I'm not happy with this we move on to our next match against Japan maybe we can get away with the 0-0 draw I just don't want to see now things have gone a little complicated and now they have three points so if we tie Japan, and Switzerland so this is gonna be our plan so we're gonna play the first half it's gonna tell us what the if Germany is beating Switzerland but if somehow Switzerland and Germany we have to beat Japan but Japan weren't going to and they tested our keeper early on nice save Rui! look at the ball just floating! for the rest of the half I was we've made it to halftime what Germany's winning! okay so we can we can't afford and hopefully Switzerland doesn't come back so we don't have to have another invisible and that's when it gets serious I began the second half wasting um... yeah I tried to kill time and I got Pepe a red I couldn't risk it I had to! it'll be like he's invisible but I was confident I could keep the match okay we've completed the 90 minutes it did take us a red card now let's just hope we made it! five points Switzerland lost now the question is who we're playing next France in the round of 16?! so if everything goes to plan and we beat France we're gonna have to play Italy so this is a really tough path to the World Cup oh so look Rui Patricio looks great today and Danilo looks even better I it didn't take long for Mbappe to test our keeper no what a save by the invisible wall! with the first half coming to a close, no get it out! no... that's so ugly! we got a big hill to climb in the second half but a quick start to the second through ball - Leao finish we've tied it! we've tied it 1-1 but we have a player about to no it's Nuno Mendes! here he is, invisible Mendes what why are you tackling him! he's our first invisible defender so this is counter attack, go Leao can look at the pace cut it back! with everything tied France would get a oh my days I thought it went in okay we're gonna waste okay we're on to extra time our goal if we do a penalty shootout so we'll be able to win this match but we'd have a golden opportunity Bernardo Silva! that's the ball! no, he saves it one minute and it's a penalty shootout, no no Danilo, invisible Danilo win this ball Danilo! yes! kick it out we're on to a penalty shootout so now all we have to do is yes we've actually made a save down the middle, down the middle, down the middle I don't know how we didn't save it it's fine they're going left no I went left! please Jota please don't mess this up well done okay Mbappe, which way does Mbappe go, right? yes another save! we're gonna do something crazy we're gonna do something cr - is the keeper not gonna make a dive? no wait here we go, left? it's copying me, it's taunting me we gotta put this one away please Leao... that's huge now the only thing we need right... panenka oh my days, we have to shoot with - oh no okay I don't even know who this he does! it was Danilo! it was Danilo look at him celebrating! oh my days, I'm getting a headache look at him grabbing him! we're on to the quarterfinals! now the team we're playing in the and if you don't remember, Italy and here they are in the Veratti's so short he's hidden behind the mascot we would have a perfect start against Italy that's it he's on side! please, please! for post! we have a 1-0 lead! but this means a player is disappearing Jota's invisible! he's making a run go Jota, can we score with an invisible player? OHHH I've done it! I've scored with an invisible player that's crazy! I don't even care that another that is what we needed to do here now who went invisible? no Ruben Dias is invisible! left back and - oh that's he made a tackle right away but poor defending let Italy back into the match no way... clear clear clear! how are we not clearing that ball? now we survived the first half but Italy we need to make sure we keep this 2-1 lead five minutes, left we gotta get this no no no no no no no no no keep him away from this side no... get it no! oh my days we just gotta kill some time here get this ball out okay we've beaten Italy 2-1 we've had to make two players we're on to the semi-finals and Mexico beat Belgium! we're playing Mexico in the semi-finals Poland vs Argentina in the other semi-final I don't know what Lewandowski is doing that but I guess it's working imagine Messi versus Ronaldo in so the amount of invisible players especially if we have to play Messi in the final the match started off pretty boring this would be the best chance for Mexico early on I can't get over how funny the floating ball looks we've made it past the first we're not gonna win with a 0-0 score but every time the ball got near oh my days - I thought that was gonna go in I thought it was going to be an own goal and in the 82nd minute, something finally happened Ronaldo's through... 82nd minute - for post! we put it away! we have a 1-0 lead in the semis! he is that guy - HE IS HIM Joao Canselo is oh no - I I just need to clear this clear clear clear ref blow the whistle! clear it! there we go! five minutes of stoppage we're on to the final of the World Cup now as much as I'd want Poland they ended up losing 2-0 to Argentina which means we have a Ronaldo versus Messi final but I can only see five of my players it's time to make Ronaldo proud Ronaldo would have the Ronaldo! that would have been sick but Argentina would get chances of their own okay... we survived that no no no no no no no okay they can shoot like that all day before half time! Bernardo Silva... he's too short 0-0 at half time Ronaldo's on the run you can't get it to him Joao look at the pace, by himself! no what a save by Martinez can we win in the 90th minute? Ronaldo... again! we're on to extra time still no goals in this match, but a goal Bernardo Silva... Ronaldo's making the run he's gone! please... do we sweat it? of course we do! we have a 1-0 lead in the final of the World Cup! Leao just disappeared but that what - no way! what a goal from Bernardo Silva! we have a 2-0 lead in the h - oh my days I thought he just - he just just need to hold off for 8 minutes, and we cause Pepe just disappeared this is our defence... no no oh no... no no I don't know where anyone is! there's no way I'm gonna lose this there's no way I can't - I don't care that they scored one minute left no this it can't end like no no! yes! no, no, no! HOW?! we're in the third minute of stoppage time! that's not possible! Ronaldo's destiny is being the goal scorer... he's going left I literally dove left - not the star we needed you know what we're gonna psych him out yes penenka! that only means Acuna he would go... right, left footer left we're going left, we're going how does he know? Messi... going left yes we saved Messi's! we're going right I swear - okay I was scared Martinez, Martinez... straight down the middle okay we're also going right on this one please okay well we need to save this or else he would go right yes! okay now we just need to score we're going left, I can't look yes I heard the mesh, I heard the mesh right yes! all we have to do is score whoever this is... everything's on you right down the middle... YESSSS! we've won the World this is Ronaldo's first ever World Cup and if you enjoyed this video, you'll enjoy this video right here PEACE:)