Today is a really hot topic: but water heater technology is kind of ingenious heater has two heating elements; one all housed in a very well insulated cylinder. As the hot water is pushed out near the top. For each unit of electricity that's used, you However, my water heater is wearing one like a hat. It's a heat pump. That I'm spending I'm getting 3 to 4 units more efficient than any electric or but hybrid heat pump water heaters have some unique ... like ... what's that strange mini-me I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by I keep saying, "heat pump all the things" efficiency you can't beat a technology that more heat energy than the amount of energy but it's not. I've got a 50 gallon Rheem Proterra thoughts on this specific model as we go, but heater in general. Brand doesn't matter, but I'll The biggest reason you'd want a heat I mentioned already. It's mostly about the the ratio of energy in vs. energy out ... get for every kW of electricity or natural because I'll be getting into comparing my one therm is the energy content of about 100 The massive boost in COP is the in general. You'll be spending far to create hot water for your home. It's a very some of the downsides start to creep in, or at The first potential pitfall is the cost. Heat straight electric or natural gas models. In my that cost about $800, not including installation. plus installation, so there's a sizable jump in available in most places to help knock that cost or your local utility company, so it's best to In my case, here in Massachusetts, there's the cost. The best part about that one is that it's buy the water heater. So, suddenly that $1,500 of up to 30% (which is capped at $2,000) off have been applied). So if the total including you'd end up paying about $1,225 (eg. original in Federal incentives). Bottom line: in than a standard water heater depending on But this is where a couple of common come into play. Before I get into those, there's can really help in your daily life and that's easy to use VPN full of incredible features devices with one account. Most of the time when we security as you travel around the world, but it look like your IP address is coming from somewhere content, like streaming services. But ... that's gate prices based on your location, so you can the best prices. They also have add-ons to their which will let you know if your email or personal in a data breach. Right now they're running a to 3 additional months for free. SurfShark offers to try it out for yourself. I've been using the description below. Thanks to Surfshark The other couple of common elements that I time. When it comes to the noise issue, your and sometimes the luck of the draw. In my case, I all_. I have an insulated mechanical room that's I never hear the water heater running. However, I heard from others that they've had some noise so be aware. A friend of the channel, Paul Braren, As for recovery time, which is a measure of it's also been a non-issue for me. In fact, I'd water heaters have a slow recovery time. It's what settings you have on your water heater. For can put it in: Energy Saver, Heat Pump, and High been using. On this setting, it fully utilizes the but also incorporates the electric heating It's a balanced approach. The other two modes heat pump only, which can affect the recovery according to Rheem. "High Demand" mode puts also increases energy consumption. I'll get The final potential pitfall of a heat pump water Because they have an air source heat pump strapped volume in the room they occupy. The way the through a heat exchanger to extract the heat into compressor and turned into vapor, which circulates making hot water. As the heat is extracted turning back into a liquid, and ready to repeat getting ejected from the heat exchanger is cool the heat pump will lose efficiency as all the This is VERY noticeable in my setup. My mechanical cubic feet, but my mechanical room is only about the equipment inside it taking up space. It's first moved into the house, the mechanical room in other words, very cold. There are alleviate this issue, but we opted The reason? That little mini-me tank sitting next into my geothermal HVAC system that's heating that system's compressor is captured into water Rheem water heater. That means our Rheem isn't the outside -- it's refilling with water that is a sensor into the holding tank to track the water the end result is that my water heater doesn't We didn't get the geothermal desuperheater here for almost two months. After we room isn't meat-locker cold anymore, That leads me right into the performance I've because I'm about to drop some numbers and charts have a ton of data, but enough to start getting move in until August, I'm only looking at the same months last year with our old natural Aquanta smart device installed on my water heater For this first chart it's the amount of gas that there's a noticeable jump in October for cold weather really kicks in. December through so there's another uptick noticeable for gas in can see our electricity didn't jump in December. since October. My hunch right now is that which started up in October. It Operational costs are another story though. If you look at this chart, you'll notice that gas and December, but electricity is dramatically and electricity prices in my area. Electricity we boast some of the highest in the country. was coming in around $2.18/therm (at the kind of a mixed bag in my area. Massachusetts about 22% more for hybrid heat pump hot water hunch that will change over the coming months best settings for us. We may still try venting from which would also help it out. However, electricity ($0.17/kWh) and gas ($1.66/therm) Electricity wins hands down across the board. with an electric heat pump water heater. Again ... I also have solar on my house, which is zero energy from the grid over the course of electricity to generate my hot water will be Is it worth it to go with a heat pump water it's absolutely the best option out there. it's not completely cut and dry depending on what you're already using a standard electric water upfront costs really aren't that different right state and federal rebates. In some a heat pump water heater ... and then How does it shake out for you? If what's been your experience? Let everyone sure to check out my follow up podcast of your feedback. A special thanks to all of every video and help to make this