Apart from being critically acclaimed, one is its striking visuals. It's gritty, it's This episode was requested by choco-drops. I episode you wanted me to prioritize Hey everybody, my name is Thomas, and welcome back where we study popular video game artworks, break it in the end. So, um. I think that's enough In an interview led by MCV/Develop, Art &quot;A through-line of the influences that I love or rooted in classical art. On our previous and ink artists. The inky influence I'd wanted to &quot;At the inception of the project, we'd thought pivoting to pen and ink when the narrative and This explains a lot of what the deep black shadows reminiscent of comic Mike Mignola is stated as a direct see this in the final Hades renders, You might be wondering why I bother seeking out if the art style seems pretty straight forward, artists' perspective. It informs us on why they stylistic decisions. In our case, now we know pen and ink. Sure, you might be able to tell this the artists directly. Besides, for me, half the behind the artworks that I love. In an internet I do think it's nice to put a name With that out of the way, let's get our magnifying glasses ready and try to pick And what better character to start Let's zoom in a little bit. There Firstly, the most obvious thing. evoke the pen and ink/comic book aesthetic. The line art isn't very clean; a and sometimes there are even variations with the There is some very subtle hatching used to define hatching is a technique used to define shadows by closer they are together, the darker the shadow, example I can give you is if you pull out your portrait. And you can see if you zoom in a little Another thing that I've noticed is color along the shadow's edge that from the core shadow color. This edge There are also some high contrast presumably from the environment around him. Along with that, there seems to be some random This detail, while very subtle, does add to the to assume these flecks of color are supposed but I'm not entirely sure. Either The color palette is high contrast. The character that the rest of the color palette kind of skirts case, it's red contrasted with his pale, almost with his dark, but still desaturated skin. The overall shape language is sharp and stylized, almost Fortnite-like. You can see this or in Athena's braids. Alecto's hair. Artemis' exist within the art style, there are features like Zeus's beard coalescing into a cloud even Aphrodite's locks curling into hearts. But for example, Poseidon's pointy muscles. I or not this makes sense for the material of Lastly, there is an aspect of abstract when we're actually making the artworks, With all that said, here's a simplified version of my observations in a convenient list If we were to make a material sphere with the it should look something a bit like this. With our the pure black shadows here, terminator line color random colors. You can even see my attempt at the In the same interview with MCV/Develop, Jen Zee says that the 2D assets were made in anything or making any 3D models, so we're My program of choice is Clip but you can 100% use any other I ran a poll on my Twitter page to see who character is. [cough] I only got 15 votes so you look like a total loser. Anyways, Palutena is the before going for it. So, I decided to do go for Kratos from God of War: Ragnarok. I started with a rough sketch. I tried to head size vs body size, with some leeway Whenever I make artworks for Render Breakdown, I I decided that having him rest his axe on his Alright, line art. Pretty straightforward. I used a standard hard round brush with the size I would fluctuate to using 4 pixels whenever to break my lines every now and then to Now we're moving on to some color blocking. buy I don't know. I felt a lil quirky make a different layer per color, 'cause why not. Now we're doing the pure black shadows. be coming from the top left, and so I For the shading, we are going to be using Layer Layer Blending Modes decides how a layer is going all layers are set to Normal. This means that it. All the other settings will make your You should play around with them to see what we'll just be using Multiply. I set Starting with the face, I decided that for the shadow. In contrast, I chose a line. My reasoning for this is that they are opposite colors. You might not want so choosing colors is up to your discretion, I also have a third shading color here of... global luminescence, or subtle highlight. One of the things that I want to point out the fur coat. Compared to the official God very sharp and stylized. I referenced this off of It's a good idea to compare similar items between one art style to another. It's also a good And before I knew it, I'm doing finishing A subtle thing these character portraits a color coming from the bottom that fades Finishing this all off with an Hades portraits are clearly outlined with And it's done! I'm really proud of how this turned you know, confident with tackling other we're gonna be circling back to Palutena. I like to involve you guys in my videos lot of polls. I couldn't decide on a by you guys over on YouTube, and... Option 2 Honestly, I initially had some trouble mostly because of her face. I don't know what it balance between her very anime looking face I wasn't really happy with the initial sketch And that's a hot tip for you. If something isn't somwhere, it might be helpful to go by this alright. Get some new perspective in there. It's Because after I did that, I eventually ended One of the bigger challenges I faced in accessories. There's just so much of it! Hades art style is its abstract simplicity. Things that would typically require a lot abstract. You can see this with Artemis Charon. You see how they're drawn as broken they're melting into each other. Here are this technique. This makes it really easy for us simply retaining their basic silhouette. Just I don't have much else to say here so I'm just going to let the rest Add some finishing touches, and... this is what this turned out and I'm glad to have another I changed my shirt. It's a different day. with this channel, I like to post these you know, gauge what people think about them. So I posted this on Reddit crazy numbers but hey. 800 upvotes. right? I'm glad to at least be able to I have a semi-important announcement to make. you access to all the project files from all .CLIP files, and more. I've included a 7 Day and technically this means you can hop in and but of course, you know, I'd Well, either way, I'd love to hear your thoughts do you think I didn't? And if so, how do if you think I did a really bad job and down below and fight everybody in the but you're very welcome to do so. You know, [eating noises] Sorry. What the fuck was that. If you'd like to support this then I trust you know what to do. You all that shit. So, what video game art already do have a video lined up for October so I hope you look forward to them. I'm really