- This is a shackle, and so is this, so what's the difference? When do I use this It can be confusing trying to understand which type of shackle is And when securing a load, if it could result in a rigging failure that causes significant damage or injury. So if you aren't sure when then keep watching. By the end of this video, between the different types of shackles and their applications and know which shackle (intense rock music) My name is Ben, and this is Today, I'll be breaking between the different types of as well as the different to help give you a better understanding of which shackle you should We'll even take a look at some so you can be sure that you for your needs. So let's get into it. (animation swishing) (upbeat rock music) Before we start discussing the let's familiarize ourselves of a shackle and the terms This is the bow. It is sometimes referred to as but today, I'll be These parts here with the And this part that slides through the holes is called the pin. And this part here of the These are the terms that I'll be using to refer to the different throughout this video. Before we dive in, though, I want to point out the most It is the writing right This is the working load limit. This is the maximum weight of the load that you can lift with your shackle. ASME B30.26 rigging hardware to have identification and/or as well as the shackle pin. These markings are and legible throughout the You should be able to read on or trademark of the manufacturer, the rated load, and the size. You should also be able to read on every pin the name or grade, material type, or load rating. If you not see these markings, and always check the working load limit and make sure your load (animation swishing) (intense rock music) The shape of a shackles which type of shackle it is and what the shackle can be used for. These are the main two types of bows. Here, you have an anchor shackle and this is a chain shackle. (intense rock music) The anchor shackle has The larger bow makes this or using multiple sling leg connections. Anchor shackles can be but remember, side pulling of the shackle based on from the in-line or zero degree position. To see how you can calculate based on the angle of your sling, check out this video linked below. (upbeat rock music) This is a chain shackle. Chain shackles, sometimes are D-shaped and narrower They are designed for In other words, they should Side loading a chain shackle So when using your chain shackle, your sling configuration not like this. (animation swishing) (upbeat rock music) Both of these shackle bow types can be used with three You have screw pin, (intense rock music) Screw pin shackles have that can be screwed in and tightened down to the ear like this. Screw pins are quick and easy so they are good for pick when slings or other hardware One thing you must remember is to always tighten the It is easy for a sling to especially when using a choker hitch. Because of this, using a screw pin shackle is not recommended for You can use a screw pin when side loading or with but remember to factor in the reduction of the weight load limit. (intense rock music) Round pins like this are not threading. The pin is secured in Round pins are good to or be subjected to torque They're most popular in or applications where the load But round pin shackles are not recommended for overhead lifting, and when side loading or as a You do not want the cotter (intense rock music) The last type are bolt types. Bolt types have a bolt and a nut. You tighten the nut down and then secure it with a cotter pin. Bolt types are the most secure They remain secure, even when twisting or torquing may occur. Also, the nut and the cotter to tighten the pin before bolt type shackles are or long-term installations. You can also use a bolt type shackle for any application that or a screw pin shackle for. (animation swishing) (upbeat music) So the main types of would either be an anchor or a with either a screw but there are also specialty type shackles for more specific applications. (upbeat music) This is a synthetic sling shackle. It has a wider bow, so or round sling can lay flat. This allows you to use 100% of the sling's weight load limit. (upbeat music) This is called a wide body shackle. The wide body is helpful It is important to know that with a wire rope, the shackle's or greater to the diameter of the rope. Meaning your ropes than your shackles, so of the wide body shackle for a better D/d ratio. It eliminates the need for and it improves the And it will also prevent the sling from kinking or bunching around the bow. (upbeat music) Next up, you have what's Just like the name implies, when a longer reach is This shackle can also be used as a bail for lifting thicker products. (intense rock music) These are specially designed shackles made for the specific purpose They're called sheet pile shackles. (upbeat rock music) The last thing to consider is the material it is made of. What it's made of will affect as well as other factors like corrosion. Shackles can be made from galvanized steel, and stainless steel. (intense rock music) Carbon steel shackles are and are available in round (intense rock music) Alloy steel shackles are This means that you can achieve the equivalent weight load with a smaller alloy steel shackle. (intense rock music) By galvanizing a shackle such as this one, a thin layer of zinc oxide is added, which helps to protect against corrosion. This is good for applications where you're concerned about moisture. However, you still need to from the elements. (intense rock music) Finally, you have These provide the greatest and are good for marine applications. (intense rock music) So let's review. The most important part of shackle to use is to have of the total weight of your load, the type of sling you're using as well as the type of hitch you're using. And finally, remember to So pop quiz, I need to lift a load. I will be doing an overhead lift using a multi-leg sling assembly in a relatively dry industrial setting and I could expect a significant amount of torque on my shackle. Which of these shackles should I use? (intense rock music) In this scenario, I with an anchor bow type because I will have a A screw pin would not be will experience a It's an overhead lift, so Therefore I should be using And since I'll be working where moisture is not much of a concern, a galvanized shackle Now I just need to double-check and the angle of my sling fall in-line with my shackle's working load limit. If you need more information or you're looking for more you can click the link below to contact a Mazzella lifting There, you can also find a and other rigging hardware so you can find the best So I hope after watching this video, you're no longer guessing which and you've taken the guesswork out of purchasing the If you found this video entertaining, or you just then hit that like button so to everyone who needs it. Subscribe and hit the bell If you have a question, so we can get you an answer. My name is Ben, and I'll (intense rock music)