male announcer: &quot;In Touch,&quot; the Stanley, reaching the world with Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; &quot;The Dr. Charles Stanley: Because future, life is The question is: How do unknowns in life? Some people respond with Many people respond and frustration and worry. How do you respond when you Well, that's what I want to talk &quot;The Confidence to And I want you to to Hebrews chapter eleven. And in the midst of a number saints in the past, and I think in this passage of to face the unknowns in and assurance and No matter what we face in life, We do not have to be anxious. We do not have to be So, in this eleventh beginning in verse twenty-three, &quot;By faith Moses, was hidden for three because they saw he and they were not And if you'll recall that those young Hebrew &quot;By faith Moses, refused to be called the choosing rather to endure the God, than to enjoy the You need to mark the passing pleasures of description of what sin's about. Verse twenty-six, &quot;considering riches than the for he was Then he says, &quot;By not fearing the wrath of as seeing Him who is unseen. By faith he kept the Passover so that he who would--he first-born would By faith they passed through passing through dry when they attempted Now all of us have A person goes to &quot;You know, we don't Jobs are uncertain. Relationships are uncertain. Families are uncertain. Everywhere you turn, everywhere and you ask yourself the What is certain? What is for sure anymore? What does the future hold? And there was a time when people security about their and their finances, but no more. My friend, listen If you do not know Jesus Christ, you have about anything in your life. And you're naturally going to and some bits of fear and And even though you may have all to buy anything you need, You can't buy yourself You can't buy And therefore, everything No matter how many how wise you appear to be, your life is indeed uncertain. And so, the question How are we to live and how world that's so full of And there's so much emphasis on benefits and so much And the truth is in spite of the only real, genuine security relationships but one It is a spiritual relationship. It is a relationship That is the only true basis of the life that comes after. So, when we think about what the scripture says. He says in verse twenty-seven, not fearing the wrath of the that word, &quot;he endured as How does a person Well, how does a person see God? You and I see first of all, I just have to tell And this is the best way When I open God's one of the things I'm I want to see what God is up to. I want to see how He thinks. I want to see how He operates in Joseph's life or Moses's life. I want to see what He did. I ask the question: I want to know if He someone else's life. What would have happened not operated this way? Is this a pattern, is this a Am I able to see who God is? Yes. Listen, the clearest and is to read His Word. Now, here's why I say Because people can come up about what God is like. And there are many people of God that are absolutely, God's not anything And so, in order in order to keep my focus right God and not something else, I Anything I see with my eye of of God, I'm not not seeing the God who is God. And so, reading the scripture, operated in Moses's life. How did He operate How did He operate How did He How did He operate in the How does God work in To me personally, it has been life to go back, read, ask over and over again: Why? What were You saying? Somebody says: Are you No, I'm questioning God's actions in the lives not to question whether question: God, What did You do? Can I expect the same If You put me in some challenge, real to me as you Daniel, Joseph, and all Yes, I can. Because principles never change. God never changes. He has a will and a purpose And having a will and He will work that out if you And so therefore, when I look at they operated, so what happens? I'm beginning to see who God is. I'm beginning to see God. Therefore, a second thing is to be able to identify the works people as well as We see His handprint, His We see where God is. We see how He moves We see how He saves the lost. We see how He guides the saints. We see how He life, in difficulty and trial. What are we doing? We are seeing the I do not have to see a absolutely real, awesomely real, wonderfully how to describe who has made Himself so real. What did He say? &quot;I'll never leave What did He say? Every single believer is indwelt Spirit who is one Therefore, if you and I are one, person of the Godhead, we have and therefore, we ought to be of God, be aware of Not only aware of His And if you and I are gonna live we must, listen, we must to discern His presence. We must train our minds listen, train our spirits to presence of God and the absence of God in a That's the key. And he says he endured as Now, in difficult you see, why does He says to teach us endurance. And what happens when you We are driven to God. When we are driven to Now, let's think about this When we say the Bible says, &quot;Blessed are the pure in What do we mean When a person's pure in If a person is pure in heart, pure, our thoughts are holy. Does that mean every No. And when something we deal with it Our thoughts are our motives are unmixed. Our motives become pure. We want to do what is right do from God's perspective. Our conscience When, listen, when we walk we're gonna have a our will is gonna our motives are and our thoughts Now, you think about this. When our mind is that's when you and I will be And this is why so don't see the presence of God. They say, &quot;Well, you God's up yonder somewhere.&quot; And if you ask the average &quot;Well, He's up yonder, that's Well, while God is sitting heavens, He is also sitting And so, that you and I but listen, God has made it And the way He's made it Word, He's given us and then He speaks to us Now, I'll tell you one thing And somewhere along the way, I who God was and who He is, thinking, the way I When I lie down at night and sleep, I always try to think the next day as best I can. But secondly, I always try to happened during the day. And the reason I want to do that the evidence of God in my life. I want to see what did God do? I want to see how He I want to see what He did I want to see how He guided I want to see how He protected And how many times have you been somebody cut right in front maybe you come to a It didn't mean a thing to the red, they came right out What was your first response? Your first response should have Thank You, Lord.&quot; When we set God we're gonna be continually looking for the And God's presence is so real. When you think about how many drive eighty miles an to be the speed limit, three inches apart, And if you'll they only have about six it's dangerous to be Who do you think's guiding Almighty God. Now, one thing about going to things, here's what happens. When you lie down at night and been doing in your life all for the evidence of His You see His Here's what's happening. What's happening is this. You are recalling, you are, in your mind God at work in And what you're doing while you are listen, evaluate, and being able better on the second go enjoy His handiwork, enjoy the What does it do? It just etches it in When you let the day go by and re-evaluate, the Bible says we and rejoice in the about what He's been And you see, taking the time Taking the time to recall, and thanking Him because you're going to see God as And you're gonna begin to long, doing His I mean, when you're on your job, out, sometimes difficulties circumstances, you need Him. Call upon Him, expect Him. He's--David says, &quot;I keep Him I set Him before me. I set Him before Me daily.&quot; And also, what happens is this. We begin to interpret life We begin to think When you and I begin to see Him, then we begin to think about That's why you and I can end decisions in our life we begin to We begin to see God as He is. And when you begin it will affect every So, let's go back. The Bible says, &quot;The pure in heart, Which simply means: if I expect of God and His it begins not with A pure heart. Because when my heart is My, listen, my motives My conscience is gonna will is gonna be Let me ask you a question. Is it worth, is it worth walking of God to keep your heart pure? Yes. Is it worth walking in the and His enablement in your your conscience clean unmixed and your thoughts pure? Yes! It is worth every moment of it. It is worth every confession Because God wants to be even want Him to be. So well, what kind of difference Here's the It'll make a lot of difference. First of all, you will from a whole You'll begin to not from who I am and what I You'll begin to view life my lack of, and my no You'll begin to &quot;Thank God the omnipotent One Thank God that today, the One who absolutely supremely control of my life today. I don't have to be afraid. I don't have to be anxious. I know that whatever I need, my It will affect every So, let's think about For example, you'll begin You'll begin to think Not &quot;I can't&quot; but &quot;I can.&quot; Because, listen, I can't reality of being able to see And what happens there is a there is a bubbling omnipotent, sovereign, ruling God get on the inside of your life, decisions in life that seem He is there all the time. You begin to look at your own perspective, and and here's what'll happen. When trials come, &quot;Oh, dear God, Here's what'll happen. When you begin to be aware of you begin to see listen, you will the hardships and the trials you'll see them as Building spiritual maturity. Building the You're, listen, you're Now, when you fell in love with about marrying or the person the more you I certainly hope The more you the more you loved them. And the more excited you became. Listen, we can't even compare personal relationship with God. Because on that side, In this earth, there are And on the other side God is absolutely perfect. He loves us Everything that comes from absolutely the best. And so what happens? We begin to develop change our whole attitude about and the way we look at things. A second thing and that is obedience suddenly than the pleasures of the world. When God becomes a a living reality that you can day, you know what happens? Sin loses its appeal. Listen, one of our &quot;God, draw me to Yourself so appeal to me whatsoever. But let--make holiness sanctification, let that be And what happens is sin Because you'll get so excited with you and His love for manifestations and, His willingness to show Sin will lose its appeal in your God from that perspective. Another thing that You and I will begin to see So much of what we You can watch the news and and so much of life's not real. And you see, some you notice that when they have this great appeal, they're not for real. It's all fake, it's all on the We--listen, God gives us And here's what happens. When you and I we begin to see that Satan has what satisfies and what happy and full of joy. We begin to see Sin loses its appeal, we begin our relationships to Another thing that happens is to put--to place the Once you begin to see the perspective, Things that are they will lose the priority in eternal become the priority. And what'll happen is it the way you spend your time. It'll affect with whom It'll affect the way It'll affect the way It'll affect how much you It will affect, listen, how you It affects every single our perspective changes. Now this God, I'm beginning and what He's like. And when I begin to see what I want my heart to be pure. I, listen, I want my I want my will to be submissive. I want my life to be an walking likeness Everything begins to change. So, he says in His Word, he seeing Him who is invisible. And what happened? One of the results of misunderstanding no longer When you and I, listen, when presence of God and He's ever keep Him before us and we're perspective, criticism, gloom and doom, do not bring It can just roll We can absolutely walk away simple reason, when we are we're able to deal with those love and forgiveness Doesn't mean that you'll always treat you, but there's a sense your God whom you serve, whose life, will enable you to every difficulty no You see, when he said that he invisible, Him who is unseen, that was limited to Moses. This is the gift God single one of His children. And I want to challenge you to see God in my life? Where's the evidence In other words, if He is, man, Do I see God, listen, relationship to other people? Do I see God in my conversation? Do I see God in my work? Do I see Him in my family? Do I see Him in relationships? Do I see Him in--do I see Do I see God or do I not? Do I see God in the expression Do I see God in my service? Is my life making an Do I see God working in affect someone else's life? So, I simply ask you a question. Are you living your life looking you, your circumstances in the presence of Almighty God? Or do you find yourself Do you find yourself feeling alone and helpless and worried and fretting and sometimes even unapproachable of where you're in life? Then my friend, what you need to your personal Savior by faith. What do I mean by that? I simply mean that you're scripture says about Him is the Son of God who went to He paid your sin-debt in full. And if you're willing to ask Him tell Him that you're receiving in that moment You become a child of God, throughout the If you want a peace that if you want to be able to face assuredly, you can only do through His Son, Jesus. And I want to encourage life even if you're a believer. Examine your life and ask When is the last time &quot;God, show Me Yourself&quot;? When's the last time I genuine hunger in my heart to And maybe it'd be good &quot;Lord, when I lie down tonight would You just remind me right before I go to be reminded of how and what you've Lord, teach me how in every circumstance It'll change your life. And Father, how grateful we are yourself real to us, love us forsake us, love us enough to fall, love us enough to hang growing up and maturing Thank You for no never, forsake you.&quot; We give ourselves afresh To say, Father, teach us how to seen You before, for we