Translator: Queenie Lee This subject, are the biggest moral crisis, and I'll also say it's a spiritual crisis This gap between the rich is reaching critical proportions. I think one of the biggest crises today's young unemployed they lose valuable jobs training skills. I'm going to show, as a picture I'll just show you some pictures about how rapidly this inequality as well as the opportunity inequality is growing. What's happening in America today Most parents say the kids go to school, but in 1970, when I graduated from school, 1 million dollars at 15% interest Now, you could live But in 2016, do this thing I called it the Greenspan Put. It's one million dollars it's going to cost you a million dollars That is how deteriorated and this is one of the causes Another thing is are receiving middle-class incomes; Every time we shop at Walmart, over to China, and Pakistan, That's capitalism. Another thing that's happening they become dependent. Now, the US government tells us Maybe poverty has been beaten, but what has increased The attitude that the government As I said, it's a moral crisis I learned in Sunday school and too many people today think This is another crisis here: Being Japanese, the Japanese call it, (Laughter) I'm a racist, I know. (Laughter) But anyway, I've met there are about 75 million baby boomers We expect the government that's a lot of highly educated people. That's a crisis. In 2002, I published this book Fourteen years later, there will be a global financial crash. We're in 2016, and here we are in 2016, In the first ten years of this century, in 2000, with the dotcom crash; followed by the 2006 and then in 2008, the banking crash. The question is, &quot;Is this next?&quot; This is &quot;the giant crash of 1929.&quot; Every time I listen to those guys on CNBC- they keep talking I tell you what: That's why I write, and I speak, our futures, our well-being, I'm going to talk today &quot;Commercial Message&quot;, But I'll explain why guys like me get richer, This is quite interesting. This is one of the reasons These are the Bush tax cuts, the biggest tax cuts Thank you, George. I appreciate that. (Laughter) They have no morals, I'm the author of the book Maybe I should see a show of hands. How many have read Some of you have. Good, there are some customers (Laughter) As I say to the Publishers Press, I'm a best-selling author But anyway, for those who haven't read the book it's a true story on my two dads. The story begins growing up in a little town, a little sugar plantation town, I raised my hand in the fourth grade - and I went to a very rich, and I said, &quot;Mrs. Jarrell, She said, &quot;Why? Don't you know I said, &quot;Not to me.&quot; (Laughter) But she said, &quot;You're here to get a job.&quot; I said, &quot;I don't want a job. She said, &quot;Go ask your dad.&quot; That's where &quot;Rich Dad Poor Dad&quot; started. My poor dad was the Head a very smart man, PhD., went to Stanford, the University I went home, and asked dad, I said, &quot;Hey, Dad. When are He said, &quot;Never.&quot; I said, &quot;Why not?&quot; &quot;The government doesn't That's kind of interesting. So he said, &quot;If you want to get rich, He's an entrepreneur, That's how the story When I was nine years old, I crossed Being an entrepreneur, he started teaching his son and me That's how my financial education began. So I wrote this book in 1997. So far I sold about 41 million copies I'll give a little bit of my background. Thanks. I don't do it for the applause. (Laughter) This is Hilo, Hawaii to New York City. I didn't do well in school; having the old man So, anyway, I got one to US Naval Academy one to US Merchant Marine Academy I took New York because they were the highest-paid This is me at Kings Point, here. Our starting salaries, for most of us, were about 100,000 dollars So that was pretty good back then, not much today, And then, when I graduated, I got a job as the 3rd Officer on a standard It was a great job except for one thing - and my moral conscience kind of got to me; So I joined the Marine Corps, from about 6,000 a month as a Marine Lieutenant. It was a great decision. I went to a flight school it was right up the street here and straight to Vietnam. It was really a great experience. Loved the Marine Corps; It's a band of brothers; When I came back, My first business, the Surfer Wallets Everybody thinks, &quot;Yeah, when you start Well, no; success is expensive. I started selling these silly wallets, and I spent more time raising capital so l could sell more. But it was a great learning experience. I learned to make My life changed when I met this man here, This here is what Fuller is noted for: he's considered a futurist This is a geodesic dome In 1967, I hitchhiked from New York City to go see the dome, and it was a mind-blowing experience. I never thought John Denver calls him In 1981, I had a chance to study with him up in Kirkwood, California, I made the mistake of sitting down next It was called &quot;The future and he sits down next to me, and said, Robert, what is your life's purpose? I said, &quot;Oh, to get rich.&quot; Wrong answer! He chewed me out. He said, &quot;Robert!&quot; It's a waste of a good mind. Why don't you do something I said, &quot;Changed the world? Finally, I got it. As he said, I'm not here to work for me, That was a pretty cathartic event once I realized how greedy I was. Then I studied with him for three years. Every time, he kept asking &quot;What can I do, I'm just a little guy?&quot; &quot;What can I do, I'm just a little guy?&quot; He was tiny, too. So I ask all of you what can you do? I studied with him for three times And then, he passed away July 1, 1983. He left this book behind; and it stands for &quot;gross universal It's how the ultra-rich rip us off. Fuller is a friendly genius, he never wrote finance books He's a math, science, art, I read &quot;Grunch of Giants&quot; because it is exactly the rich are ripping us off. So at that point, I said, &quot;What can I do, I'm just a little guy?&quot; I decided that time and for those who wonder who grunch is, you may just notice we got bailed out, Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, Bernanke and the President and they say, &quot;This was a mistake, That's a lie. I hesitate to tell you that; it's a lie. It is part of the business plan; So, ladies and gentlemen, I said and what can a little guy do the Federal Reserve Bank - which is not a bank, (Laughter) not American. Get the hint? I could take on Wall Street, but I could also take See, ladies and gentlemen, those crashes, these bailouts and neither is it an accident But my research found since 1993, Just as prior to the Civil War, we're not allowed to learn When I found that out, I said, &quot;OK, it's time for me to get on So I become much like I started teaching. It was not too far from here, my wife and I were homeless because we can't go and nobody wants to listen. That's how it started, and so I'm going to tell you I'll start by telling what it's not. Financial education isn't saving money in the stock market exactly the opposite of that. My financial education began We all know the formula: When I was nine years old rich dad and I, and his son That's how I learned to become a rich man. The reason that works It was created by a man In 1969, he came up with and he said this is how human beings Noticed the worst way and the second worst way is lecture, that's why I was never at school; (Laughter) What you guys are doing watching movies, Also, the second best way Simulation is where you get you've got to make your mistakes So human beings learn by making mistakes; except in school: you make mistakes, In business, you make a mistake, So, a person has got to find And for scientists like Edison, The reason I learned a lot That's how I learned so much. Today, I play Monopoly in real life. My wife and I have over 10,000 units, several hotels, But that's the game. Once you learn in your brain simulation is a little way you learn, so you practice, practice, You make mistake like a golfer makes a mistake Then they are turning pro. But the reason is they think mistakes make them stupid. It's criminal: a baby cannot learn You can't learn to ride a bicycle So that's where our school systems I loved the military to make mistake Every day when we flew, and every day I killed my engine This here is me doing the real thing. If not for practicing crashing, All five of my crew came home alive. What I did was, after Bucky with &quot;What can I do, my wife and I created This is the key This is called a financial statement. Add a financial statement This is financial literacy: So the beauty of the Cashflow game is today we have thousands all over the world; people teaching people without having to go through school Now, you have to go to school but you don't have to go So all over the world today I asked I started empowering people to learn. So all of over the world, today, people are teaching people This here is a financial statement: The beauty of this here is this: this is your report card My bank was never to ask my grade point average My bank wants to see The reason most people can't go loans They don't even know what it is even college graduates. The reason I can borrow I have a strong financial statement, This here is very simply; it's Poor dad always said to The problem with education Rich dad taught me to be four greenhouses, one red hotel. Assets are very simple: you can plant an apple seed, harvest the apples, you sell the apples, and you keep building an orchard; Or a friend of mine, his grandma gave him some chickens, those chickens lay eggs, When he was 45 I think, he was selling ten million eggs You don't have to be It's buying a couple of chickens. (Laughter) It's kind of funny, really. So the power of words - financial literacy begins with words, As my poor dad always said, In Sunday school I learned Every time you say you can't afford it, and you say I'm a poor, I'm a loser, the government should take care of me. Disgusting! Rich dad taught me, &quot;How can I afford it?&quot; So when I had no money, my wife and I just kept thinking, Pretty soon, your mind opens up, Most important words and money are basic, there's only four: [income], assets, That's where financial literacy says: income, assets, You understand those four words basically, Money has a language, It is taught job security Look for job security, If somebody should take care of you and said, &quot;I'm going to As an entrepreneur, That's my job;to create other jobs, So number one is assets, these are liabilities. The reason the poor middle-class grow poor is because they think If you read &quot;Rich Dad Poor Dad,&quot; savers are losers, This came out in 1997. In 2007, the subprime market crashed, and tens of millions of people found out their house was a liability. If you use the wrong word you will always be stupid and broke. So don't call a liability an asset, They are using the wrong words, Financial literacy - change your words, change your life. Never say, &quot;I can't afford it.&quot; Work to acquire assets not liabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thousands of Cashflow clubs people are teaching people. You don't have to go to school The thing is, &quot;What can I do, I'm just a little guy?&quot;, I stopped making wallets, My wife and I created that's played throughout the world today. Every day, tens of thousands of people That's how you change the world. But if you change your words, So the best news is words are free. It doesn't take millions of dollars Just change your words. Thank you very much. (Applause)