We often say that history is written by the One of the most striking instances of the great Athenian of the city's democratic Living during an age in which the world order marshaled his talents in rhetoric and genius king of Macedon - Philip II. Welcome to our video on Demosthenes and his This video is sponsored by Imperiums: Greek on ancient Greece and its rich history of Enter the era of Philip II of Macedon in a Choose your nation from a multitude of factions, upstart Macedonia, wild barbarians, or restless Lead them to glory with a mix of bold strategic trade. Vanquish your foes on military, economic, Face new challenges in a handcrafted historical ever seen in this genre. Follow in the steps of great kings and legendary as never before! Buy/Wishlist the game on Steam by clicking A contemporary of the famous Aristotle, Demosthenes His father was wealthy and belonged to an mother was a half-Scythian woman. The elder Demosthenes spent his time amassing if some historians are to be believed, he investment and by avoiding politics. Unfortunately for the younger Demosthenes, was only seven years old. The family fortune, rightfully his, was entrusted seized it for themselves, refusing to provide Because of these financial problems, the boy education, such as good schools and private expect. Sometimes it is even said that his guardians Demosthenes would never forget this theft. As the growing boy became an adolescent, or rhetoric in preparation for a career in politics. At the age of 18, Demosthenes swore his oaths performing mandatory service in the polis' If ancient authors such as Plutarch are to fragility, and sickliness made this part of However, much to his credit, he emerged triumphant Upon returning from military service, Demosthenes who had swindled his inheritance, primarily He faced overwhelming odds against figures was, and who had more influence in society. Nevertheless, a portion of the money was eventually experience. In the process, it seems like the young man scene and was employed as a private speechwriter Despite this success, during his first proper for a speech impediment which was probably In order to remedy the issue, it is said that his mouth as a 'speech training' method. The subsequent years are a relative historical that he continued to amass a fortune through public offices, and made his first speech Always looking to a political future, he then leitourgiai [-ay]- public services for the Though this seems to have been the case, by had nevertheless amassed a large fortune. As this was happening inside Athens, the outside Sparta's trouncing at the hands of Epaminondas world. However, Epaminondas' death almost a decade of a new power to compete with Athens. That power was an ascendant Macedon, ruled Ever since 357BC, when the Macedonians took of gradually eroding Athens to the status His corsairs persistently harried crucial valuable allies, and his direct military action Demosthenes, now around thirty years of age, ambitions. Unwilling to allow his great city's territory a fight, Demosthenes delivered the so-called to the Athenian public assembly - at an unknown skills in rhetoric to advance a revanchist Demosthenes initiated the speech with scathing in the assembly. He shamed them for the laziness and complacency in the first place, not through any special carelessness. He also balanced this out by addressing the energetic expansion, stating "Learn a lesson which you mastered by strict attention to our enemy, which discomposes us because we Demosthenes then proposed the establishment of both citizens and mercenaries. His speech detailed the objectives, exact anti-Macedonian contingent. "If you hear of Philip in the Chersonese Thermopylae, you vote one there; if somewhere fro." Although he and many colleagues seemed to it was never carried out. Demosthenes' fretting about Philip 'the nonsense when compared to familiar threats The situation grew even more severe when Philip [hard ch and c] cities - Olynthus in 349BC. Demosthenes warned the assembly of this dire that we must help the Olynthians and the best my approval." However, when Philip II did attack Olynthus dedicated to stopping the Athenian-allied due to betrayal and the superior Macedonian Always a keen diplomat, Philip reached out messages, asking for a truce and even alliance. Demosthenes had a change of heart after Athens' of peace talks with Philip. Perhaps the Macedonian king would be a reasonable must have hoped. A vote in the assembly concurred with this the famous defensive pass at Thermopylae. In February 346 it was decided that 10 emissaries One of these representatives was the middle-aged Although the Macedonian king believed the illegitimate, Philip nevertheless promised negotiations with the assembly. After a number of back and forths between Philocrates in 346 - named after one of Demosthenes' Although obviously still distrustful of the Demosthenes seems to have been understandably any conflict with Macedon. In defiance of the peace, the Athenians then attempts to embed himself within the Greek Firstly, the rowdy assembly refused to recognize League. Then, to add insult to injury, it boycotted presiding over them. We have no details of Demosthenes' response However, when the Philip sent an emissary delivered his speech On the Peace, demonstrating of the cyclops-king's war machine rampaging After outlining several prior occasions in advised his followers in the assembly to back unsatisfactory the agreement was. [Not?] To do so, he said, would be to give the warlord It was a matter in which Demosthenes was clearly When another orator named Aeschines supported he was widely jeered and shouted down. Nevertheless, Athens complied with Macedonian his army to withdraw to the north, much to However, Philip had all the momentum, and seep into southern Greece. Among a few other issues the city was facing diplomatic tour around southern Greece in soft-power. Upon returning without success, he delivered a speech that helped Demosthenes with internal It became clear to Demosthenes and to the influence around the Aegean grew ever more for the fate of the Greek world was inevitable. Realising that the moment to resist had come, action, urging his own people into pre-emptive At the same time, he rushed around the Greek By the summer of 338BC, Demosthenes had crafted formidable force capable of resisting Philip His efforts had brought many Euboean cities Achaea, Corcyra, Leucas, and even the great In any other age, this coalition might have Macedonian steamroller was too much even for At the famous Battle of Chaeronea in summer for Greek freedom collapsed before his eyes, companions. The aftermath of Chaeronea saw Athens' greatest of those many thousands who perished in the In effect, this was a funeral not only for We can only speculate as to what was going in history, but he probably didn't imagine lost for over two-millennia. His grief was probably made all the more bitter Rather than going out in a blaze of glory, have to do, the Macedonian king instead released alliance with the city. The reality, however, was not lost on anyone Before the ambitious designs of Greece's Empire could be realised, news reached Athens II really had passed away, assassinated by an arena in Aigai. This momentous event was hardly a surprise Demosthenes had realised that the Macedonian Demosthenes included, a long time before. He had also repeatedly pointed out this fact stating that Philip was a hunted man. To whatever degree this had been expected den of Pellan court politics, Demosthenes Macedon had been a collapsing realm before of the political world, and perhaps without irrelevant state. Tempering the joy brought about by the revelation had died only a week before. Despite his state of mourning, however, Aeschines death that he donned a celebratory garland and setting up a shrine of devotion to the This sharp turn in Athens' favour at the seemed like a miracle bestowed from Zeus to As one of the city's most prominent figures, in which he would be the one who would guide Athenian empire of old. If these were his hopes in the aftermath of be harshly brought down like unfortunate Icarus, to the sun. Buoyed by his newly found optimism, Demosthenes united revolt of the free Greeks, this time successor, a relatively obscure young man The rebellion, which included Thebes and Athens, In only a matter of months, the king had marched the Greeks. The League of Corinth was reimposed. To Demosthenes, this 'Alexander' was starting Still, upheaval in Thrace, wider Greece and be bogging the new king down - it was still Among many other problems, Alexander was forced Illyria during 335BC. During the king's absence, rumours filtered Demosthenes, likely not believing his luck, on his fiery anti-imperial agenda by persuading Thebes with Athenian arms. However when Alexander re-emerged, very much the Thebans to their fate. The city was razed to the ground, most of while a few escaped into distant exile. Not at all ignorant of the role Athens, and him as a tyrant and fanning the flames of enemy of Macedon be surrendered to him. Thanks to the intervention of another politician at the last moment. Demosthenes had avoided Alexander the Great's and seems to have learned his lesson. It was clear that any rebellion against Macedonian crushed. Realising this, Athens' champion of democracy still retained a bitter hatred for the king. Compared to his blistering output during Philip's hardly did anything to rock the boat during the king was far away in Asia. When Spartan king Agis III attempted to raise in 333BC, for example, Demosthenes was the arguing that it was a pointless effort and Although the Athenians wouldn't have liked about by Macedonian domination brought Greece This brief Pax Macedonica especially benefited building and beautifying projects in the city. As a cherry on top of the cake, the assembly's making governance more efficient. A combination of this domestic tranquility is probably what urged Demosthenes into silence He simply said nothing because there was no This period of calm during Alexander's eastern treasurer - Harpalus - stole a massive amount and sailed to Athens. His attempt to lure the city to his side failed at the Macedonian 'god-king's' demand the Athenians to allow him entry. Still hesitant to break with the ruthless and managed to persuade his countrymen to He was later released in the hope that Alexander The failure of this strategy finally brought career at the age of sixty. The orator was brought to trial by his enemies and, despite having no evidence against him, Despite suffering the worst effects of factionalism Demosthenes seems to have still loved his When Alexander the Great died in summer 323, Greek cities and rousing them into action The so-called 'Lamian War' followed, in were utterly crushed. After this, the Macedonians tightened their vestiges of 'freedom' it enjoyed. Demosthenes and his fellow Athenian partisans Macedonian approach, unwilling to be dragged Realising his quarry had escaped, the Macedonian actor named Archias, who was known as the After capturing one of Macedon's Athenian tracked Demosthenes to a small island off where he had taken refuge in the temple of Upon landing and approaching the shrine with attempted to convince Demosthenes into surrendering treatment and saying friendly things. But the champion orator saw through this ruse thou didst never convince me by thine acting, With his skills in the theatre called into a rage and threatened the Athenian. All the condemned orator asked was that he family, which was allowed. The group went into the temple and watched writing implement in his mouth as though he Unknown to Archias, the pen contained poison Demosthenes collapsed and died by the altar Poseidon, will depart from thy sanctuary while Macedonians would not have left even thy temple The death of Demosthenes occurred at a pivotal The dying age of independent Greek city-states rule which would last over a thousand years, Diadochi wars. We are planning more videos on the Hellenic our channel and have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and