This is gonna be in a simulator. I'm just gonna set that If you clicked on this thinking that given an idiot No, this is a simulator. But this is Petter from who is a qualified pilot and Yes, correct. I work with instructing new pilots before they're allowed to and after they're allowed And so over on your channel, of everything you are from your air traffic control Exactly. That's the idea. Yeah, you're not gonna be I'm gonna be on my own where I am the only one And... I dunno, what do you I'd say they're pretty good. I'd say in the Right, okay. But in order for me to know that, Do you have any previous I've been in one flight simulator for a Comic Relief video But they just put us on We were already coming in keep the controls straight, This is a motion based simulator. It's gonna move. Which we have been given for free in exchange for me saying that Airline Flight Academy with six state of the art flight simulators including B737 and A320 type ratings <i>(inhale)</i> There we go. Excellent. Well done. Alright. I will have either landed or... ...landed the hard way. Correct. And I'm gonna Thank you! <i>(wheezes)</i> Okay, I'm in position. I guess this is the first cheat, which is that I would never have got Absolutely. So we have to do this where you have gotten access But in reality, a passenger would never get access And would never be able to magically on their headset immediately. In this case, obviously we are because you are in a simulator and this is the only way Yeah, that's fair enough. We are on autopilot at 15,000 feet. Let's land this thing. What I want to try to establish now and then we're going to discuss how we are gonna get you So if you could see at the there should be a box with Something like N1, hopefully LNAV, Can you say to me what it says Yes, I can. Left is MCP[Mike Charlie Papa] SPD[Sierra Papa Delta]. Middle is LNAV. Perfect. That means that you're And remember that the autopilot is like a third crew member. That crew member is perfectly So what we're gonna do we're going to try to tell in order to get you safely Understood, and we're aiming for Yeah, I have you on radar here, and it looks like you're So that's what Now, the top-- If you look the top panel below the glare shield, It has a lot of windows with numerical Do you know which panel I believe so. That would be directly below Yeah, that's correct. Okay? You will see on the right-hand side that says CMD [Charlie Mike Delta], Confirmed. Yeah, that's the autopilot button. Do not press that because that and that will be a very bad day. <i>(wheezing)</i> Understood. <i>(laughs)</i> Okay. If you can find the window Tell me when you've seen it. I see it. It reads 15,000. Yeah. Just below that, Can you turn that knob until the value reads Confirmed. The wheels next to just started spinning and the plane is now banking Yeah, that's because the LNAV track that it has Don't worry about that. Okay, so the aircraft is now That's what we've told it, heading 2-7-0, The aircraft is doing exactly what and what we wanna figure out now is So in the screen that is in the right hand corner there, how much fuel in total Can you read that out to me? Yep. Confirm total 3.8. 3.8, okay, that's perfect. So that's quite a lot of fuel. Alright. So time is not an issue. From now on, it's gonna start to be Because now we have the So now we're gonna try from which it can auto-land. So first of all, I want you where you can rest your feet If this is an ejector seat, Yep, okay, I'm in position. Alright, so what we need you're going way too fast, okay? We need to get your speed back So if you go up to the and you go out to the left side, the second window from the left Can you tell me again what 2-9-1. Okay, that means that you're flying Can you bring that value 2-2-0 confirmed. Perfect. <i>(C major tone)</i> Can you just tell me if No, it's not. There was also that sounded like a dial tone You can disregard that for now. That's because you are about That's good. Okay. The speed is not decreasing. We're still at 262. Well, if you're at 262, and you were at 293, Oh yeah, I'm just I forgot this was a simulator Okay, good. Now we're gonna turn you, So if you go back up to the and look at the Yep. Currently reading 270. Okay, can you turn to the left until you get 100 confirmed. The plane immediately started Yeah, that's exactly 'Cause what I'm doing now turning you downwind I cannot overstate to be in a motion-based simulator It is so convincing! Yeah, no, that's the idea. Right, so you are currently and can you tell me what speed 2-1-9. Now you are coming almost perfectly So the next thing that to the right of the thrust levers, there is a flap lever. I see it. I want you to move that flap lever If you have to go through a gate, first one, and then Yep. That caused the Yeah, so what's happening those things at the back of the wings, That's causing a lot of drag in the way that So that's why the trims are moving. They're trying to readjust to But this also allows us So if you go back up to Yep. Bring that back to 180 knots. 1-8-0. I can actually feel us Yeah. Yep. That's what we want. So now we're in a The flaps are coming out. The radials are all set up. And basically, I'm just waiting to Okay, I could briefly see Knowing Dublin Airport, I'm guessing Correct, correct. we're gonna take you out quite far, The other thing that we need the only thing that this aircraft is to maintain the direction You will have to do that Okay. The thing to remember is that you especially not at high speed. It's just basically a light If you see that it's deviating It probably won't, but if it does, So basically let the plane at which point, to make sure we keep towards Correct. Alright, let's land this. Confirmed that we Altitude is decreasing. Perfect. Perfect. Now you're captured on the So now we're well set up. Now the next thing I can see the runway. If you go up to those autopilot You can see those four ones at the Yes, I see it. A/P Engage. Also, I have visual on the runway. The next thing we wanna do is back to landing speed. So if you take the flap selector and bring it all the way Flap 40. Got it. We just had the Lot of trim happening. Yeah, because the flaps are so that's perfectly normal. As we now get a little bit lower, I want you to monitor the those three green bars and just tell me if something Alright, we've just got green I'll let you know if anything changes. <i>One hundred.</i> Perfect. What I'm looking for It should say flare, <i>Minimums.</i> Flare and minimums Remember now that which is gonna do by itself, then you are the one that's going to So don't do any big adjustments, very small, smooth and just let it come to <i>One thousand.</i> Understood, just passed and I've got the Dublin smokestacks Alright. Here goes. Okay, can you see 'Flare' on the primary flight display, Yeah, I have 'Flare' on Perfect, that means that the aircraft So that's good news. There are cars on the roads I just wanna tell you, good luck. I mean, we're counting on but I'll take it. Yeah, you're getting close now, man. Very close. I'm just gonna keep my Ready for arrival. We are at 300 feet. Here we go. Let me know when the aircraft I feel like I should be and that's not my job. The computer's doing everything. I just need to just stay back, do not touch anything There we go. <i>Fifty.</i> 50 feet. <i>Thirty.</i> <i>Twenty.</i> <i>Ten.</i> Flaring. There we go. We're good. Little bit of, little bit to the right, Little bit to the right. <i>(softly)</i> Oh, let's hope that Come on, Tom. There we are. The aircraft is at a complete stop. We have landed. <i>(wheezing)</i> <i>(slow, hearty clapping)</i> <i>(chuckling)</i> Thank you so, so much. Welcome to Dublin. <i>(sputtering)</i> I mean, the computer It was knowing what to push to know what to push. But you see how well this aircraft That's what I meant by Absolutely. If you just communicate, and you communicate to that, And what if there was like weather, anything like that? It would handle it But I wouldn't take you in Right. But the problem with to stay on the centre line which is why I was Oh yeah, we kept going and I kept pushing more But you're here, This is exactly where we <i>(group laughing)</i> So cool, man. Well done. Thank you. Okay, after the break, I'm gonna try that If you are looking for a new career, learning to code with They're a career focused tech academy and now's the time to apply to which starts on November 7th. Boolean's courses last between full-time or part-time. You can choose between full-stack, or data analytics. And those courses are They focus on practical work, and their teachers are people who've done the job, You can have a look at testimonials and they also have a refund guarantee. If you complete the course, they'll refund you. Or you can choose to pay afterwards So if you are seriously considering and joining a fast-growing you may want to consider signing up And if you mention that you found out they'll also give you a There's a link down in Good luck for your future. And as for my future... well, it's time to Okay, a few upgrades and I've got a push-to-talk button so I don't need to keep reaching up But also the very first thing as soon as the sim sets off, Wish me luck. Okay. Ready when you are. Okay. So on your... If you hold onto the steering yoke there is a button by Do you find it? The one that says The very same, yes. Shall I push it? When you push it, you're gonna have telling you that it's just So press it once, press it again <i>(klaxon-like buzzing)</i> <i>(buzzing stops)</i> Confirmed. We are on manual. Now, we're gonna concentrate what you see on your That's the screen that is So what speed are you 2-2-4. Okay, now what I want you to bring back Bring them back a little bit and feel what happens Feel that it's trying to Can you feel that? Yes, I can. Alright, pitch it forward, Just a couple of degrees. you know, that you have a cross Just bring it down but don't let the speed Just keep the speed going around Understood. It's less of a cross and I appear to be descending quite rapidly. <i>(C major tone)</i> That's it, okay. That warning that you're away from but we're gonna disconnect-- Okay. I'm holding the speed We are descending. If the speed is 190, So pitch forward a little bit. When you say pitch forward, does that mean That means go down. It means push your yoke So push it, but very little. Remember, it's a So just push it forward And on your left-hand thumb, That's the one that moves That's, if you feel that you need to use you need to move that switch to get that force away, right. You're trimming out the aircraft, Do you mean right thumb? It might be, yeah, it might be You're actually in the first officer's Can you see them? Move them forward and see Got it. Okay, so use those. If you feel that the forces then use them to either go in order to feel better, I'm not gonna tell you You're gonna have to Right turn please. So bank to the right. Confirming, banking right, Perfect. That's it. Okay, how's your speed doing? 2-2-3. Perfect. Passing through 5,000 feet. Yep, I can see you, and I can see that you're turning Now what I would like you to do and just feel how the aircraft Add a bit of thrust and feel how That's just to prepare you for when we get onto the approach. Yep. Understood. Yep. So keep the speed. This time you can set the speed You with me? Speed-- Okay, hang on. I need to level this out. Speed is 2-0-8. Had a bit of a panic there, Perfect, alright. So take the thrust off again We want you down to I have no idea whether unless I check the instrument That's the only thing you have. At the moment, you are but very slowly, so you can take So bring the thrust levels back and That's 1,000 feet to go. 4,800. Perfect. Now I want you And try to hit a heading 240 degrees. Got it. Where the hell Yeah, so the heading is right below If you look at that cross if you'll go straight below that, Confirmed, currently reading... Currently reading 360. Turn left onto a heading of We're just gonna have before we get in Heading is 2-4-2. I am quite happy with how if I'm honest with you. I won't be smug for too long, Yeah, that's good. Now you're getting a little bit too so I want you to continue to heading of like Oh yeah, we were aiming And I stopped at 240. That's me being an idiot. Repeat the heading Put a heading of 150 degrees. Aiming for 1-5-0. I'm gonna try and stabilise. That's fine. Actually, if we can get you down Continuing to 3,000 feet, Speed steady at 2-2-3. Okay, can you turn right, Heading right, 2-4-0 degrees, Staying at speed 1-9-2. I've gone up to 3,500 feet again, Don't worry, get yourself down again, because we need you to If you look out to your left, you have You should be able to see That will tell you 2,500 feet. I'm pulling up. Okay, can you just read out what Standby, flying! <i>(chuckles)</i> You're doing great. Yeah, I think I'm yawing Yeah, I can imagine. It's not an easy aircraft to fly, Okay. Make sure you don't turn You're on a heading of so just keep that diamond I just noticed that I turned That was me being an idiot. No, no. Just keep that It'll tell you what to do. The idea is that you are Do you see that white That's you. And if that's in the middle of Okay? That's what The diamond is Do I need to steer left or right? If the diamond is to the left, Confirmed, doing that now. Small corrections. I know it's small corrections. I'm just not making because I'm panicking, So you need to turn left now. Understood! This is extremely convincing. There's so much to I have a glide slope diamond! Okay. Try to get yourself back 'Cause I think you're a little bit So you might've turned Now when you hit when that comes into middle, then bring the thrust levels Okay, I have visual Okay, what's the diamond It is dead level. Okay, start pitching down. Pitch down to You wanna descend with Understood. I'm not on the ILS. I can't see the-- Okay, but you see the runway. Just point for the runway If you're visual, point for Now what we need to do is you Okay? Put the gear down. Gear is going down. Bring the flaps to 15. Flaps to 15. Repeat what you said Yeah, bring the thrust back. And if you look at your -- that's on the third screen, at the very top there, Where the hell's the Don't matter. Don't matter. You're too high now. Yes, I can still see the runway. Can you see if there's a on the left-hand side? All white! All white! I know I need Yeah. So pitch down, This is not a good angle to This is not good. This is not good. Okay, so how is it looking? Are you descending? Not good! He's too-- He's too high. Keep descending, okay? And I think you're levelling. You're quite aligned Keep descending, bring Keep the thrust at idle until you get at least one red. When you do that, I have two white lights I'm gonna try and hold it there. That's perfect. So the thrust should because if you're taking flaps 40 and So bring the thrust up Understood! 1,000 feet! Okay, you have the gear down Confirmed. Okay, just aim at the Now, when you get close the thrust levers and Let it just sink down Once you land, you have to use those The brakes to stop it. I'm aiming for the taxiway. <i>Glideslope. Glideslope.</i> Okay, if you have a nice, long then use that and just make sure that <i>Glideslope. Glideslope. Breathe. <i>Twenty. Ten.</i> No! <i>(tinny explosion noises)</i> And that was a crash. Yeah. Yeah. Ah, it was-- I-- There was just so many Whew! <i>(hooting)</i> Oh, thank you for trying! Well, we got you... Did you crash on the runway I was lined up what I think was Like, I tried to Didn't quite get it, but I had a and then I just tried to brake and it just hit way too hard. Yeah, right, right. But at least you happened which means that you have emergency which is pretty much the best we So, well done. I'll take that. <i>[Caption+ by JS* More than welcome.