On the roads of Quebec, in winter, drivers must Carl Deschatelets in Rouyn-Noranda. In Quebec City, Steve Parent drives the truck The two men whatever the weather conditions, to do their job. They both do No matter how deep the snow is, they must pass. We are in Rouyn-Noranda, last town This is where Carl is based, He takes care of troubleshooting in places at any time and despite Today he has to repair a truck Carl doesn't have a second to lose. Roadsides and he wants to take for him and his client. There is the shock absorber attachment It started to rub against the tire, I stopped on the side of the road, because this room and if the differential comes loose, you can lose control of the truck. Carl's daily life is carrying to broken down truckers He must answer calls or that the temperatures It's around -20 degrees. We were -17deg but there, it's a little colder. Carl prepares his tow and quickly gets to safety. Road workers are In Quebec, since the start of the year three people, I work in conditions The temperatures... There are lots of factors that influence. The cars that circulate the aisles are narrow, we have to and motorists like we're not big enough Motorists are not paying attention, they don't even slow down. Dangers Winter, with snow, the roads are and even with snow tires, the slightest fault Carl is one of those who never leaves He expects it every moment. Sorry, a car almost cut me off. You have to have eyes in the back of your head Otherwise our lives are at stake. Even truck drivers In addition to having eyes in the back of your head, It's part of the job. Carl is an experienced driver, but he knows perfectly well I've had accidents before. In relation to the conditions These are things that are possible. We scare ourselves sometimes. We do not have a choice. We work in storms. It's an emergency vehicle We don't just go out in good weather. On stormy days, when the trucks and that we must go and help them, As we are not supermen, we scare ourselves sometimes. We're going slower, we organize ourselves to come back. With the cold, These are hard factors in the long run. All conditions to have maximum stress. On the snow roads, to be at maximum stress. In the barracks at number 3 every outing in winter also represents Steve is called urgently to intervene in a primary school, just a few minutes away He just triggered his GPS system which turns green We must act quickly. Two hundred children come a smell of gas was smelled and no risks should be taken. Barely out of his truck, Steve is busy doing The first thing to do to be able, we will be able Of course I could but to be sure not to have I prepared myself. The fountain is ready. I'm waiting for them to The call we're on, There are 200 children. We were called A hazardous materials leak. The school is expected to be evacuated. They are in the process to see if it's true or not. That's why to help us evacuate these 200 children. Steve never walks away He follows closely by radio to be ready The tension is palpable on the scene. The truck in the back, for hazardous materials. They deepen the research Each firefighter has a specific role Steve is also ready. Its role is essential. Me, my job, then deliver the water They don't have to know if I have a mechanical problem, I have to manage. When they ask me to send the water, Inside the school, They are now looking outside the origin of the odor. There is a restaurant next door, maybe it's from there The smell may be coming Firefighters use detectors to find if there is a gas leak. It's negative, there's nothing. We moved towards an installation but there is absolutely nothing. Finally, it's not a gas smell, so we look for any type of smell He thinks maybe it's There are restaurants nearby Firefighters are now safe that the smell does not come and very quickly, It comes from outside. To me it smells like rubber It's very likely. There is a processing plant right here at the end of the street. The wind is coming from this direction. They may be and that makes the smell reach here. We confirm that this is indeed it. We left again. End of intervention. Steve is reassured. The children are out of danger. They can return to the barracks. Return to Rouyn-Noranda, this town of 41,000 inhabitants, derives its wealth mainly Traffic is heavy in the city, but also Truckers often find themselves For hundreds of kilometers, no living souls, no gas station. Here we count but in case of problem, We find Carl. He has just been called on The accident has happened A truck weighing more than 50 tonnes The driver suffered He has just been taken to hospital We wait for Carl the most We had left Then a phone call and everything changes. Carl has just been He had to perform but the priority is urgency. Work, You never know what will happen. The truck overturned when fully loaded. Forty tons of plywood Impossible to detect I have to remove the canvases, I cut the elastic from the canvases, after that I cut the big straps so that when we get up, The truck will get up Afterwards we will take care Even without loading, The puzzle begins for Carl. The path is not wide enough I have to position myself but putting my truck there. This is where it is necessary and know how I should place it. A truck like mine, pulls straight back and forth, I don't have the equipment It just shoots in a straight line and there, the load must come this way. The truck is not in the same direction because the path is not wide enough. We don't have enough space. We try to find to get the maximum width. We see the ground. It's been going so far. I don't want to spill either. Carl must find and place your truck without ever falling into the ditch. Real precision work. The tug can tow but the truck doesn't want to know anything. He doesn't move an inch. Carl's winch tows The truck doesn't want to know anything. I thought I would counterbalance He is in an unfortunate position. Carl will have to change his strategy He must turn around and attack trailer. The winch on his tow truck is powerful. With such towed tonnages, Carl is never safe from slipping up. The trailer finally lifts off the ground. It took more than to start moving We must now align and straighten it. Carl's work is far from finished. There he is, he's on the ground. It took much longer than expected. It's been almost three hours he's going to need that much The truck goes into the garage in Amos. After that, I have to come back I will have to make two trips Legally I don't have the right Carl will have to make two trips back and forth The garage is an hour's drive away. So he still has And off we go for an hour's drive. Carl performed the part It will now roll but keeping in mind and that he must demonstrate He goes to Amos, This is where the truck will be stored before being recovered Luckily, Amos is on his way, it will make him Night falls on Amos. Carl still needs to get the trailer It's almost 9 p.m. Carl doesn't count his hours, He can work like this 24 hours He does an emergency job and has no fixed schedule. While Carl Steve, in Quebec He goes to the Saint-Sauveur barracks, in just over 30 minutes. Quebec City is slowly waking up before she is The temperature has changed. Steve, just after taking his clothes, implements all its settings. I've always done this, I imagine that all the drivers I have a little routine, because there are things I manage all the time to have a position like in our car, Because if I go and do other things and in 30 minutes we have a call, and the vehicle is still adjusted In my opinion it doesn't work. A habit that I give myself. I turn on all the accessories to cover a call, depending. You always have to make arrangements Visible with our lights, Everything I'm going to must for the alarm, is already in operation. Everything is already ON. The only thing I'll have to do Like this, when I get to my truck, The guys are getting ready, and everything is working. I know I couldn't forget anything. We have our breathing apparatus. All is well. I don't trust my lights, if I have water in my tank. I do this every day. There are 500 gallons of water in this truck. It's a very big tank. My job is to be ready and to ensure That's why in the morning, to climb up, because it's important so as not to be fooled. I also do a I do this every morning to be sure I take the time, it takes 30 seconds. I clean my reversing camera, given Little check When I left home, We saw that the temperature I think today, Yesterday it was around 0deg. It is certain that conditions have changed. If we talk about driving a vehicle, it could be a good opportunity that I always do There is a large parking lot, to be sure of the reaction. How does this happen. And then no one stays Steve doesn't think he's saying that well. The road is slippery this morning and a car has just returned Firefighters are called to the scene. The accident is less than a minute away. The driver has just been evacuated He failed to master on the road, freshly slippery. The horn is blocked and it's up to the team This morning he fell For Steve, there is no question We are in an industrial park We chose a large parking lot. It is certain that driving that's why we come here. We're going to make the truck react to prepare to go on residential areas, We are going to do a series of accelerations, This will bring us up to date a little, In the conditions We don't act stupid. We only do Safe, Steve will check to be able to anticipate during emergency calls. First test: distance It's a good distance. Thanks to their weight, trucks have a lot more grip on snowy road than cars, but for Steve, Everything behaves differently, It brakes badly. You see there I have the front I wasn't even able to We're going to slip up to see how the truck will react. You see, I lost the lead again, It's things when we go on intervention. You have to know your vehicle. It allows us to anticipate It can save us a lot of problems, to do that to the changes We find Carl It's 11 a.m. He's still sleeping in his truck. Carl went to bed at dawn. All night he had to do Another night that was very short. I took advantage today, It's 4 o'clock in the afternoon. That night Carl towed on the side of a road. It should be A stopped truck is a truck who loses money Carl's customers Then he took care of a snow plow. Once again, private companies be operational as soon as possible. Carl worked all night I'm going to lunch, After that we're going to go do Then we will park in the garage, to relax. Carl will take his Moments of rest like this When he has them, he appreciates them. At 5 o'clock in the afternoon, It's normal. If I had finished at 7 a.m., I would have gone to have breakfast, then I would have gone to bed. It doesn't matter if I go to bed for me it's dinner time, My life is the road, we live with it. With the hours we work Carl adapts very well He can work like being on hold for three days. Always ready to ride, His life is his truck. I should have put on my coat. I can put approximately The maximum I could put in, With the autonomy that I have, If I miss any, it's because I didn't look 712 liters. I wouldn't know yet The pumps block at 700 liters. If the pump does not deliver it's still a little i.e. 750 euros, but the range is 3,500 kilometers. Back to the garage for Carl, he has time Normally he does it every day. This is essential to remove the salt. This is essential It's a 2005 truck which was originally sold We bought it 3 years ago. It already had 700,000 kilometers. We modified it I made about 200 I moved to By Christmas, I'm looking at a million. And to reach Carl doesn't skimp As soon as he has a moment, He even goes so far as to pay out of his own pocket He continually maintains My friends laugh at me, It's been years. Since I got this truck, They find it funny. A passion is maintained. At the same time, firefighters from the are also working on the same task. Steve doesn't allow his truck to be washed, that when the The only thing it's only from leaving we no longer wash the vehicle. Because if we have to go out, chests, levers, Here, we are a little limited but we're going anyway, That's something This is a common task. Everyone gets involved. It belongs to the citizens, it's paid for it belongs to the city, it's nice equipment We have to pay attention to it and keep it in good condition. Steve's truck should always to cover emergency calls. He was specially to answer These are trucks that will be manufactured according to requirements It's made by a company, Maxi Metal, a company that is from Quebec, who knows, precisely, the criteria that we need These things, Quebec is one of the oldest and these emergency trucks must They are good vehicles. They are ergonomically well made These are vehicles when we are going to speak for the north. They control well, they brake well. They have fairly short turns. Given that in the city, then quick departure, Today, Steve is taking advantage to identify the conditions It's important to him which could get your vehicle stuck. Eighty percent of the race, stress is knowing My work, quickly. And above all not to make a mistake. It's good, the streets are clear. In the event of a snowstorm, would be three, four feet It would become more problematic, Look, it's tight there. We have to think about buildings, and my truck is high. There is a bunch of vehicles You have to work with that. Downtown trucks are so called that even the bumpers are thinner. In other words, everything has been done and to be able Look, we're almost Quebec City is one of the cities, where the streets Fire trucks must have been there all Look, we have a problem here, and a large metal pole on the right. You have to go for the maximum. It is essential for Steve to practice passing No question, in case of fire, at 100 or 200 meters A good driver, but will make sure It's better to say that it doesn't happen There are many drivers, to come and drive because it's very tight. In other neighborhoods, This is it. To be able to be a driver so you have to be like Steve, but above all, At his time, no training I have to sneak in. Look, we have vehicles on the right, another one there, That's the fun. We are not in intervention, My job is to stay calm, and control the situation. If I go too fast I can't Steve keeps his cool and uses, as best as possible, all the The reversing camera, normally used I always use it, I like to know all the time I can play with intensity, In the second mode, who is on the roof. This allows me, for example, in a snowstorm. Return to the Saint-Sauveur barracks. All the streets of the lower town It's time for Steve and his team and take a little rest, because they are going to need it. We meet again, Carl. He barely has time to stop to buy This morning, a gas delivery man and it is completely blocked. He's on tour Carl sets off. It's less than an hour away. After a long hour of driving, where the driver is waiting for him. The truck slipped, then when There was nothing to do. Unable to move? No, you really need to move more otherwise I risk slipping even more. The driver had the right reflex He could have completely overturned. They've already been used for that anyway. Remove the handbrake, Carl asks the driver for help. The wheels are not and you have to go up We're going to try to get him out of there, The truck is to allow Carl It will, in a few minutes, which apparently has no damage. The driver is very happy. I will be able to return to work. With all this snow, I didn't break anything. I lost my time Does that happen often? No, it doesn't have to happen often, It has to happen The one to whom it doesn't happen, waiting for his check. Carl, thanks to his rapid intervention, allowed the driver The driver expresses something that doesn't happen that often. He was happy, He was just starting his day he finds himself blocked. It lengthens the day. I am happy but if he had not been happy, It's my job. Sometimes I arrive, It's not me who put you It sure is nice and the job is well done, but hey when there is nothing, it's part of the job. While Carl finishes his day. Steve, he begins his night shift. Steve is called to a house fire The fire spread. There's not a minute to lose. It's thanks to all the preparation thanks to the identification and thanks to the taking that, mechanically, his whole team A team of firefighters is already on site. It's urgent The houses of the city and the fire can reach very quickly Steve's first job through his truck, It must be connected to the fire hydrant the truck's water tank. The fire is already important, Fortunately, because the neighboring house to have some flames. The end of the alert will quickly be given, but already the streets are submerged. Water quickly turns to ice There's a good wind there. I haven't been wet, you have to cover yourself a little more. The cold, Steve and his team, Winter is their daily life. He closes the fire hydrants to never freeze, In his truck, In fact, water constantly supplies and this continuous flow prevents it from stagnating and freezing. After the fire, It is necessary again to store all of their equipment. Then, head to the barracks. But the night is already over and the early morning begins to rise It's the end of the shift. We're going to pass the torch We're going to pass on the information, of what happened We still had a good fire I have to convey all this to him, so that he knows in what state Then, what happened too. Every morning, The night guy leaves, to make the transfer. I'll talk to the driver for him to tell me everything and then so that we can make the transfer what is broken Last night we had a fire in the East, We watered, we powered the pump. It went really well. We didn't lose any tools, There are no casualties. It was a correct intervention. There I charged you the batteries. Steve will be able to benefit A well deserved rest Carl still doesn't take any rest. The night is busy with towing and we find him again at the wheel, but things don't happen He feels that his truck has a problem. Little problem, The truck changed its sound. As a precaution I'll go take a look Carl knows his truck so well than any driver disturbs and worries him. It stops right away With all the traffic he has difficulty finding where the noise is coming from. However, it is sure, like the squeak At the front of the engine, It doesn't work all the time, which makes it not work It's a ball bearing and it is breaking. In general, drivers When they realize it, And when it breaks, And it goes through the radiators. I have four or five radiators, Its a story And even if, for many drivers, Carl doesn't want to let it go. It hurts me there, We will start by seeing We will start by seeing Maybe they won't find anything Carl knows that if he doesn't anticipate he can also And that is out of the question. So far, in 12 years of travel, I've never tried being towed. I always said that I, I have to arrange myself accordingly. There is no question of it. The blow of the towed tow truck, Carl makes it a matter of honor. He's the tugboat And his most beautiful trophy, it's towing It's because he is far-sighted Just a few minutes he ends up in the garage Click-click sound but he is not sure. I am a driver, but by ear or something like that. I already had one there was a light on, but no. I don't know. I'm really bothered. We don't have a problem. That's not the problem. It's my favorite, All the time I think with it. Carl is very upset because for him, his truck is good Carl will have to wait He's the one who's going to tell her whether or not he must go back You hear ? The mechanic does not want He prefers to wait for the result analysis He measures everything, and visibly, Carl can't sit still. He needs to know. The mechanic will not be able He doesn't have electronic devices who can enable him Carl's problem. Fortunately, Carl will be confirmed that, thanks to his ear, A breakdown which would have a $40,000 engine. Carl is a tug, and it's not yet That, even if the Steve and Carl are drivers Snow is part of their life They know each other as well, that it is nevertheless not necessary to last on snow roads.