As soon as enter the front door, there is a shoe box. I put a magnetic hook on the front door and use it as a place for my keys. I sometimes forget my wallet and go out. I put bookends between the shelves. I also have a hand-cranked light for emergencies. A mini broom can be used when powder is spilled or when glassware is broken. There is a tray provided There is a sensor light. I decorated it with fake greens because it looked so dreary. Earl Grey scented diffuser. I'm always trying to figure out how to store it. This is where I keep my playthings and so on. A telescoping storage case that I recently learned exists. Storage cases take up a lot of space. I keep furniture assembly instructions, screws, etc. I don't often need them, but I put a stick up for ribbon storage I bought most of the tools at a 100 yen store. How to neatly store paper bags that I learned in a previous comment. The top shelf is for memories with letters, etc. Various things that cannot be thrown away Here are sundries, household items, food stocks, etc. I used dividers that can be used in any place I want. The bottom part is used for Emergency Rolling Stock. It is recommended to stockpile 3 liters of drinking water per person per day for 3 days. I buy and store a little more than that. I bought a large can of tuna at Costco There is a closet on the other side I put a wagon in there to pull it out because it's so deep I put a divider board here as well This Longchamp bag is great for rainy days and travel! It's very useful because it can be stored in a smaller size It's a very convenient hook to hang a bag. The sides can be detached for use. Here is for big bags. Costco bags are solid. It's a great way to carry a large pizza or a cake in it. I live alone so I never get a chance to use it lol It's dark and hard to see. I have an IKEA backpack with emergency supplies to take with me. I bought some things at Muji and 3COINS On the top I put things I use for kimonos, weddings, funerals, and so on. I like it because it folds up thin when it's not in use. There is a bedroom I wanted to put a desk in there. I can go out to the balcony through this window here This is a slim type planter for a modest vegetable garden Sometimes it's good to get outside to refresh yourself. I have a basket with suction cups to put my slippers in. It has magnets to prevent light from leaking in. This one is made with wood beads I have a light on it that can be warm or white I have a remote control with magnets on a side table Massagers and body creams, I think the smaller the opening of the vase, the easier it is to arrange. Candles with a gentle floral fragrance I bought this radio for disaster prevention. The main battery is charged by USB. It can also be used as a speaker or mobile battery I often use it when I go to bed because it gives me a warm light and goes off on a timer. The bed frame and mattress are koala I also like the bedspread to have a gauzy feel The light is also removable with magnets! It's also nice to be able to charge the battery with USB Type C. Under the bed I store loungewear Daiso tissue holders There is a closet on the other side of the window These slack hangers are very easy to take out and hang up, and I'm glad I bought it! It was hard to hang the hangers because of the pillar. On the top is a circulator, a futon, off-season clothes, etc. It's hard to reach. I store my favorite recipe books, musical pamphlets, etc. A nice smelling diffuser that I received. This one is very easy to hang because the hook is not too high The living room and kitchen Cherry shrimp kappa ebisen I have a sofa right next to the kitchen. I made a big sofa to be the main part of the room I like the steel material that gives it a nice accent I put a short vase. The sofa and the table are rectangular. The sofa came with two cushions each, one large and one small, but The rug could have been one larger one . This floor lamp is a good choice. This carafe has a cute shape. I have a big outlet. It's a stool that's very useful for something. I have a Ficus Artesima. The floor was lonely. I put a desk here It has a lift function The depth is 60 cm and the length is 140 cm. My friend recommended me to use a computer stand. I use the mouse a lot. An apple paperweight and a bird paper knife This one is a dismantled kitchen rack . I have a printer on top of a cable box It's a small portable printer, very easy to use The tissue is attached with magnets It's a little bit hard to get in and out with the legs of the desk. I wanted to buy more of these paper boxes, This item is like a box and a file attached to each other. It is a sturdy chair with a high back. It's big, so I don't get tired even if I sit for a long time. It is covered with a mat made of PVC material This wagon is used to store cosmetics, etc. It's so easy to use. This is the kitchen, which takes up most of this room. Plants are placed on a window sill with a propped up rack Right now I have Italian parsley, baby leaf, mint, and everfresh I hope the Asahiyama cherry blossoms will be safe and bloom. I have my cooking utensils behind the stove It's just deep enough to hold a 24-centimeter Staub. The opening is on the side. This is a monitor stand. This is a rotating spice rack that holds supplements and other items It's a high shelf. I used to put teacups and so on in here. Here's another storage case that I like I had some extra space above, so I hung a wine glass hanger Large storage jars It's bleached and can be cut to any size you like Here I have vases, storage containers This is where I store plastic bags, etc. Here's what I like about this shelf I also like the cover on the induction stove. It fits right next to the sink. This is a soap dispenser that I like the design. I don't have a place to hang towels. It takes up a little space. When I cook, the floor gets dirty unexpectedly. The mat is thick and firm, but a little heavy. It is a trash can with a lid that opens from side to side After using various kitchen paper holders It's very convenient to have tissues as well. Dishes, condiments, and utensils are stored in the bottom of this kitchen. When you see it in person, the kitchen space seems larger than it is. I sometimes remember what the real estate agent said to me when I applied for a viewing. It's easy to set up a tripod. There are things that I don't know until I live there. I couldn't decide where to move for years before I came to this room, but I wanted to store it standing up. I also use a stand for bowls. I use pop-in Aladdin for lighting and watching TV etc. Time to watch cartoons and dramas is bliss! The bath and changing room. These shelves have baskets for convenience. This is a magnetic bar that can be attached to a box of tissues that I recently learned about On the back of the mirror, I keep things that I use often Here is a sample of what I'm about to use This cup is a little bit hard to stand up, I like this one because it keeps the toothpaste from falling over I often take off my jewelry before washing my hands or when I take a bath. One is a glass of Korean soju The chain rings are on a ring stand I chose this first aid kit for its cuteness lol It's a wall-mounted hair accessory storage. I'm trying to organize it because it's getting messy. A storage method I've been wanting to try Such a great way! I can change my mind. I was recommended Shabondama soap, which has no surfactants in it, and I use it from time to time . I've tried to show you the most frequently asked questions. I think there were some shortcomings during the apartment tour, it's been a while since I've done one. I know this is a long video.