and from the west at Arizona state university. Geoff: President-Elect trumpm's decision to nominate Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. As secretary of health and human services is sparking concern and criticism in the world of public health. It is due in part to Kennedy's long-held beliefs against vaccines. There are worries about his history of conspiracy theories on subjects like HIV, antidepressants and autism. He is also pushing hard on some major problems that experts say are real like nutrition, obesity and processed food among them. We are joined by a reporter. Thank you for being with us. HHS is a sprawling bureaucracy. 80,000 employees across 13 agencies. If rfk junior is confirmed, what would it mean for all of the things that HHS oversees? Reporter: These are our agencies that protect the health of Americans on everything from nutrition, vaccines, our data do see how the national health is going and where we can make improvements. Support to local and public health departments. It is a $3 trillion budget. It is a massive job. And someone that has a lot of experience needs to be there. Geoff: He is one of the most prominent anti-vaccine activists in the country. It is really the states that help determine vaccine policy when it comes to things like school mandates or exemptions. Help me understand what your worries are about his potential impact if he is confirmed. Reporter: Vaccine policy is primarily governed by individual states rather than the federal government. There are levers, indirect levers where the federal government can indirectly influence vaccines. For example, fda rfk has said he wants a more vigorous vaccine review process. Given the U.S. Has one of the most vigorous review processes for vaccine safety and effectiveness, it is unclear what he wants changed for what data would be considered sufficient. But more data could delay new vaccines. It adds time. This is a problem during a pandemic or in an emergency. The fda could remove emergency use authorization for the next pandemic. There is also CDC which recommends childhood routine vaccination schedules. The problem is if the recommendation changes, there are downstream effects. Insurance companies could stop covering them and adding cost could deter uptake. And there are other levers. Donald Trump has -- honestly, my biggest concern is not necessarily through all of the policy itself but the indirect lever of sowing doubt and confusion about vaccines from one of the most powerful offices which could have a profound impact on America's ability to make evidence-based decisions. Geoff: There are Americans that welcome a different approach when it comes to cracking down on processed foods, removing food chemicals and additives which rfk junior says he wants to do. A new study published in the land set found that nearly three quarters of American adults are overweight or overviews and rfk attribute some of that what he sees as a corrupt alliance between the food and drug industries and the regulators that are supposed to act as a check on them. What you make of that? Reporter: I think we can all agree that America has room for improvement. We live the shortest lives and have the most avoidable deaths. The first is accurately identifying what is causing us to be unhealthy and fix that. I do think there is need for improvement. Rue the regulatory process and through a conflict of interest. But a lot of the make America healthy again talking points are not necessarily focusing on organic food -- it won't move the needle. I'm going to agree with things that rfk junior assess. He has reasonable statements but mixes them with outright falsehoods. In the end I think it is a matter of whether his net impact is positive or negative. And given his history of sewing doubt he can do a lot of harm. Geoff: I know for my own reporting how hard it is to make seismic changes at some of these agencies. What is the worst case scenario -- if Kennedy is confirmed and makes good on his promise of transforming public health as we know it combined with Donald Trump's promise to weaken civil service roles. Reporter: I agree that CDC and fda need improvements. I've been working with CDC for the last three years for improvements. And it needs to be done carefully. Our public health system is incredibly fragile. For example, a lot of people don't realize that 90% of funding the local and state public health departments come directly from the CDC. So say we cut for example the center of injury which is on the chopping block right now in the congressional budget. That means states won't get funding for the opioid crisis which means lack of education for resources and we just got that epidemic decreasing again. I think a lot of these will have implications to the CDC institution but there can be a grave downstream impacts and we need to be very careful on how we do that. I haven't seen a careful narrative that has taken that into place yet. Geoff: How should some of these agencies be preparing in your view? &gt;&gt; What we are doing right now, a lot on the ground -- we have to gain trust with the public. That means we have to build bridges instead of barricades. Finding common ground. Recognizing what we say and how matters especially to people that are hesitant or believe in conspiracy theories. Anger and shame will only drive people further away. Americans need their questions answered. Not necessarily to be told what to believe. I think we all play a role in this especially at the federal government right now. Geoff: Thank you so much for your insights. We appreciate them.