Light rain and car camping yagai no moriko. Hello everyone. In the area where I live, the rainy season has started and the weather continues to be damp. But it's not all bad. Rather, I love this season before summer is in full swing. This is because there are many scenery that can only be seen in this season. It looks as beautiful as a rainy day. I love &quot;watery rice fields&quot;. A beautiful view to see while driving. Sometimes I want to take a closer look. This time, I would like to introduce my summer measures while camping at my favorite campsite &quot;Okawa Auto Campsite&quot; where you can enjoy such rural scenery. It's sunny now, but rain forecast tomorrow. I was happy with the tea ceremony work, and I was happy to be at the campsite after a long time , so I chose today without worrying about the weather. It's a luxury, charter camp. This campsite is surrounded by fields, so you can see the people working. It is a rare environment where you can camp solo without worrying about being alone. At Seria, this cute box was sold, so I bought it without thinking. We also store wet sheets purchased at Seria. When I see something that I think is cute, I have a habit of buying it on impulse without thinking about how it will be used. I want to fix it somehow. The road to minimalism is a long one... The other day, I went alone for the first time to a cafe that I was interested in. A lot of fish, plants and wonderful books were lined up, and it was a very soothing space. This book called &quot;Needle flies&quot; that was left in this cafe. Attracted by the cute cover, I ended up buying the same one. I introduced a new power strip, so I will introduce it. It was troublesome to turn on/off the power of the portable power supply, so I wanted a switch at hand, so I bought it at Cainz. You don't have to bother to plug and unplug the portable power supply, but you can operate the power supply on the power strip at hand, making it easier to use electrical appliances even in the car. I'm going to take measures against insects again this year. This is also the &quot;insect repellent plate&quot; purchased at Seria. Effective for 30 days. It is said to be effective against midges and moth flies. The design is cute, so I think of it as a lucky charm and hang it in my car every year. The clouds were getting more and more suspicious. It's supposed to rain today, so I decided to camp in my car instead of setting up a tent. Now, let's go get some water. A river runs through this campground. Even rivers that are normally calm can suddenly become muddy or run faster just by rain. If you think about it, maybe a calm river is more valuable... From now on, the climate will become more changeable. I try to check the weather forecast app frequently on a daily basis, and the rain cloud radar and hourly forecast are especially helpful. Depending on the weather forecast, the schedule for the day will change. I feel like using an alcohol stove. Boil water and make tea. During the new tea season in May, I was helping with tea work. These days, even tea bags can make a very delicious cup of tea. I've been working hard with the goal of drinking this tea at camp when the busy season calms down . The longer it takes to boil the water, the more exciting it is. I put a tea bag in a can of my favorite tea leaves. Hand towels are convenient because they can be used in various places. Allow the water to cool slightly. Fresh green. I'm healed. Well, it's fun snack time. This time, I picked the "black bracken mochi" I found at the supermarket because I thought it would go well with tea. It looks like water jelly! It looks delicious I will transfer it to a Sierra cup to make it easier to eat. Sprinkle the attached soybean flour... I'll enjoy having this. Sweet and delicious ~~~~. happy. Another cup of tea. I brought some ice, so I'll drink cold tea. I brought it in my water bottle. drink in the car Very cute, nice cover and title. I also like the texture of paper. I am currently looking for a good book to read. It's quite difficult to find on my own, so I'd appreciate it if you could give me some information. I would like to start with an English book for children. I got dirty. I will prepare dinner soon. Soak rice in water for about 15 minutes. Let's play Mario while we wait. When I saw a Mario movie, I wanted to play it for the first time in a long time. I like the Game Boy Micro because it's small and easy to carry around. A game machine released in 2005, you can play Game Boy Advance software. If you are not careful, you will forget the time and keep doing it. I often carry this paperback pouch that I won with a clatter as a time-killer. I will cook rice soon. An in-vehicle refrigerator, a must-have item for staying in the car in the summer. In order to save electricity, a refrigerant is put in. One person can use this size conveniently. I will prepare dinner. Today I will use my favorite asparagus and pork belly. Wrap the melted sliced cheese and asparagus with the pork. I bought a thick mosquito coil at a home center. Ordinary mosquito-repellent incense didn't work so well, so this year I tried futomaki. Lantern oil has also been changed for insect repellent. I love the scent of this oil for some reason. Maybe it's the smell that bugs don't like. I got an insect repellent lantern. I got a new potato today, so I would like to make my favorite potato butter. Is one whole thing tough? I cut it in half. The days are getting longer. The rice has been cooked The potatoes were also warm. Add butter, salt and spices and keep warm for a while. Oil an IH compatible hot sand maker. I'm going to bake the asparagus meat rolls. Looks delicious . I'm going to put '' digging '' here. To make it easier to eat, put it on rice ~. I'll enjoy having this. After all, new potatoes are unbearable. It's delicious I ate it before. Thank you for the meal. Let's have a bonfire before it rains. It's surrounded by rice fields, so it's like camping with frogs. It's lively. I also like this time when I'm making a fire. If the number of rainy days increases or it gets hotter, it will be difficult to make a bonfire. Let's burn it into our eyes now. It's raining lightly. Hurry up and move your luggage under the back door. The scent of the bonfire and the rain is mixed and it smells good the rain legs are getting stronger. Clean up the inside of the car except for the bonfire stand. It's time to get inside the car. What should we see today? watching youtube Instead of taking a bath, use body wipes or makeup remover sheets purchased at 100-yen shops to wipe away sweat. I also use dry shampoo sheets, not just in summer. Finally, it's the season when you only need one sleeping bag. I'm pretty happy that the bedding luggage is reduced. By the way, it's a workman fusion down bag. good night. Good morning It's a rainy morning. It's so cool thanks to you... I'm glad I cleaned it up yesterday ~. The sound of rain is soothing I put my makeup tools and contact lenses in my pouch. I also bought this large mirror at Seria Let's go for a walk in the rain. It's been almost a year since I've been to this campground. It was raining then too. It's a campsite that suits JuneThis campsite makes you feel like you're sharing a country life. I don't feel alone at all. I'm not lonely A small campsite like an island with only 5 sections. But I still like the gentle atmosphere of the rain, which has a mysterious and reassuring feeling. Well, let's have breakfast in the car. I was thirsty. After installing the IH cooking heater, the range of cooking has expanded considerably. IH-compatible cookware is limited, but it is very safe to boil water without using fire in the car. The coffee beans run away. Super gorigori time. It's drizzling so little that you can't hear the rain. Doesn't the scent of rain complement the scent of coffee and nature? I will make breakfast. Just warm up the aftermarket French toast today. Delicious . It's raining lightly, but it's sunny . It's a fox's wedding. Here, I will introduce the new items that I bought with 3 coins. A compact fan with a simple design! The air volume can be adjusted in 3 steps. It is convenient to be hung from the neck! By the way, my recent favorite tea-dyed tenugui. It feels good on the skin, so even if you wear it around your neck, you won't feel stress and it will help prevent eczema. I also use insect repellent spray, but in this camp there were no insect bites or insects entering the car. Above all, it's cool on rainy , isn't it? A patch that looks just like the N-VAN I bought at Seria. I was healed by the watery rice fields and the scenery of the countryside. To be honest, the best way to deal with the heat is to refrain from camping in the summer and spend more time at home, or go camping at a high altitude campsite. I've never been to Nagano or Niigata prefectures, so going to a place where you can't go in the snowy winter would be a good summer resort camp. Where should I go next? Thank you for watching until the end.