[HBOMB] I'm gonna go out and talk about I'm gonna talk about a game I'm gonna talk and why it's amazing. <i>[upbeat music]</i> <i>[spooky music]</i> <i> </i> <i>[church bell chimes]</i> Okay, to start off, we're gonna have to establish &quot;Bloodborne's&quot; amazing, but the &quot;Souls&quot; series Let's start by talking the core game play. They are-- basically action to recreate the same sort &quot;Dungeons &amp; Dragons&quot; adventures in magic lands They control to other third person like &quot;Devil May Cry&quot; or &quot;Dynasty Warriors&quot; However, in practice the games operate All the games have a focus fluidity, You press the button is immediately doing the thing. Dante is doing the stabby as soon as you press to do it. In lots of these games, you can even cancel a move into another move. So if you realized the wrong button, you can get away with pressing and Dante cleans up after It's like McDonald's It's fine. but outside there's this sense of never I hit the relevant button based was clearly telegraphing and then it happened instantly. It's missing something. The &quot;Souls&quot; games but choose such a different that I bet some of you winced to character action games When you press the attack button you've not just committed You've committed to the long, of signing the proper paperwork to start to swing your sword. You don't immediately on the button you pressed. You have to wait On top of that, instead of attacking an infinite resource, you have a limited amount at any given time, so you can't rely on mashing and dodge buttons to get by, and then if you press you can't hit undo. You can't cancel out you should have done. This creates between you and what You can't just hit the button or dance around and wait You have to learn to prepare of your enemy and be able of simply acting or use to create an opening This is the main reason why a little bit divisive. It's deliberateness at odds with almost every which strive to make actions and give the player tons However, that you might find because there's a genuine sense once you get it. The tools you're given You're never going to feel like the place or dodge infinitely but this makes winning more satisfying and feel like There is something this kind of setup in many other types of game. It also creates a much deeper Each &quot;Devil May Cry&quot; game, has a huge array of monsters cool-looking moves and stuff at a time and it's so easy that there's less of a weight The game only starts feeling fun when only a couple and you suddenly have to take everything Meanwhile, just this one guy and generally usually does I've had to put more thought the Red Eye Knights or the Black Knights than basically every enemy in a &quot;Devil May Cry&quot; game It's just that It makes every single encounter timing, planning, You have to almost consider to know the right time before and wait out the time it takes until you finally discover and everything goes as planned. There's something It's like cooking for yourself and sitting down and realizing and now it's all yours. Every sliver of health you take was earned through It's so good, writing about it required me should never do and start using for food and/or sex. This stuff is hard to do well in games where it's done poorly. As an object lesson check out &quot;Lords of the Fallen,&quot; a game that who saw that &quot;Dark Souls&quot; and wanted to make one of those that it actually takes a lot of game fun. I've beaten this game all This game is terrible. Even the basic sword weapon that it becomes a chore. There's no light running attack Your guy just stops dead The controls are so slow my computer was simply too slow but no, There are fast weapons the damage curve and you're basically the button to immediately swing or dealing more but waiting days I'm used to a weapon having and a heavy attack When a weapon has a slow attack the entire feel Greatswords are basically for some reason comes out really fast making the fastest move in the game. This one move carried me the broken shield bash mechanic. <i>[8-bit music]</i> <i> </i> I'm actually starting the fact I beat this game twice. I think that says something Weapons in &quot;Dark Souls&quot; that you don't even notice until but it isn't just these that make the series fun. What's more interesting is how to use these mechanics the very specific feeling than any other series. Let's take, &quot;The Legend of Zelda: Maybe you've heard of it. However, a couple One is how there's to explain itself to you. Every new concept or creature is explained to you carefully and in an When Stalfoses-- spawn to attack you, they appear at a safe distance When a trap is introduced, it's shown to you in a way where its entire path and what it does The game loves to tell you how it works and let you deal This is, you know, fine, and I guess it's a masterpiece It's very fair on the player, but what I don't like is how it impacts the sense to be on an adventure. Link is trying to save the world the heart of darkness and delivering so why are the enemies taking the time and why are you know where they are Evil is playing fair to show me its weak point. Nothing is ever quite surprising Maybe for some types of games, fairness isn't actually and making itself too clear and how it works, it's probably more intuitive but it causes it to lack of feeling like you're fighting of being told them all the time. Looking back, there's something about &quot;Zelda&quot; games. What makes the world so much more interesting Take for example Mimics The only way of learning in the game who look like chests if you try to open them and try to open it and die. This isn't bad design, though. Like, &quot;Oh, how dare to not die there?&quot; Because they've quote-unquote the player's life that one time, they've thoroughly instilled and awareness and given you of having in a horrible world full It's not that the game It's that the world itself Life is unfair in the world and you learn that the hard way After you get eaten before you know it you'll just in case, you can accidentally destroy a chest if you attack it meaning your own paranoia if you employ it the wrong way. It creates a more full sense and being immersed in a world and once you make it past beat a hard boss, or successfully predict and destroy it, you'll feel like a genuinely dangerous world. The &quot;Souls&quot; games don't always but that makes besting them feel Like a genuine victory, And that feeling a couple of times because of there being great odds The feeling of triumphing is increased when that adversity at least once. This is where the idea of the game's insane difficulty Not the game's but the way they keep to new elements by killing you to create a specific sense The only way to be traps in this area is to step on this pile of-- really conspicuous wood, [rumbling and clicking] or if you're a badass, and then go about [groans] The first time you fall you're looking You've approached the whole game [angry gibberish] You've approached the whole game of awareness and appreciation You'll still get caught but they'll always feel have done more By the time you get the battlements that look just a little bit so I avoided them at all costs. Now, i--it turns out that's just Any game that successfully of a quirky pavement It's bred a sincere, visceral fear on how they've treated you It's--it's wonderful. The &quot;Souls&quot; games get into you. Like, inside your head, and all the gesticulating about in the face of a fun, but enriching series in ways games rarely manage An almost internal level. You stop doing the maths about and trying to figure out and you start to just know because all this stuff that you don't even have It becomes like an instinct. The only experience is a rhythm game It's dark, it's metallic, like a journey through Hell. Riding directly into Th--That thing's a boss. And it's very unforgiving. You die in two hits, you stop dying because the sound-- The line between player and game feels like You begin to sense what notes the music has got into you You can't really sell &quot;Thumper&quot; based purely the enjoyable thing about is when all these things that the mechanics to fade away into the salvietic nightmare Salvietic. I--I just made up to describe the feeling Generally--generally, that's a sign that Why am I talking a rhythm game--here? There's probably a reason. Oh, God, is there a reason? Shit, did I write Oh, fuck. I'm just--I'm just fiddling to make it sound like Shit. I forgot where I'm going and now for the reason I know. I make videos on purpose Who'd have thought? I'm pretty into I saw lots of people but couldn't afford a PS3 got on board with the PC version yeah, that version, and I also really like Um, okay, come on. It's--it's-- I later went back as well the precursor series before realizing they Generally I'd call myself I could talk for a long time In fact I fully intend but up until 2015, the series had a problem. It's the kind of vague problem especially because I don't A lot of people seem not to get into them and enjoy them. There's a pretty large group who do really like them, then another group of people but don't really get too far of done with it, and another group that probably I have a sneaking suspicion get super popular because people watch them to play the games or to try play something they don't get I have one friend in particular and just didn't get them at all, found them overly esoteric that wasn't fun &quot;get good&quot;-spouting fanboys they were cracked up to be. But then March 2015 happened. Then &quot;Bloodborne&quot; happened. <i>[exciting music]</i> Like the other games, my friend tried to bounce off, He's played a ton of this game of his favorites ever, at least based on how he seems 12 times or something, but more importantly-- and this is the impetus behind to be honest-- he went back to the other games All of a sudden, he liked those as well, and this has happened with Some people just don't get play &quot;Bloodborne,&quot; and then suddenly have this deep and abiding passion So the main purpose is to try and figure out Let's get down to brass tacks. Dig a little deeper [humming] Did anyone else think felt kind of like [church bell rings] Now I want to get into and complex question. Is it possible I think this to answer. People are going no matter what to like something, but part of me also feels and wrong ways but what does that mean to make good criticism the rights and wrongs if the results are going Does game design even matter the greatest game ever play it wrong Well, to a certain extent, that's always gonna happen, There will always be people just isn't for them or who to play something that something they think Some people really like and they seem to be who think clicking is a decent way of expressing In other words, objectively stupid people and there is a right way You can hide behind the shield die over and over trying or use magic from a distance with the game or wear and hope that'll save you, but the reality is it's just who dodges, who weaves, and who uses to assess a situation the first time without It's not that hard. The &quot;Souls&quot; games aren't really You dodge the attack and then you hit them with Done. I just solved all Everything else about preparing to die ignore all of that. Oh, you think Sorry, that's not in this-- Gonna have to kick you out Is it rude of me to say to have fun with a game? Well, maybe, but thanks to the magic I can literally see this Here's Patrick Klepek his way through the final boss with his shield raised, attacking only when When it's over, [snaps] - [snarls] [exhales sharply] [exhales sharply] [exhales sharply] [exhales sharply] - [HBOMB] He's glad it's over. He's glad to be done Was that fight fun? No wonder people think if this is how Now, here's Patrick fighting with no easy magic to help him. He doesn't even have a shield. He's duel-wielding maces. Does he breathe a sigh - Well, I just came back [laughing] - [HBOMB] Of course not. Is &quot;Dark Souls II&quot; such a massively than &quot;Demon's Souls,&quot; or was he just playing it to actually enjoying himself? More importantly, what leads people to play It's a difficult concept it doesn't concern the mechanics but rather how to the player which and defines how the player deals the course of their experience. I covered this concept briefly and I realize in retrospect it was the smartest thing The first lock pick are immediately next which accidentally teaches with these mechanics because and the time or point investment The lock picking are fine in a vacuum, but you've just hamstrung of how they surface in the game. When you find the password to the computer, &quot;Oh, boy, I can't wait in my character's You think, &quot;Wow, I'll just look The lock picking were absolutely fine, They were perfectly acceptable but the actual experience to the player influences how in their interactions and thereby alters the amount You play games by the experience and sometimes that manner Now, I haven't really seen about this psychological side and believe me, Even &quot;Game Feel--&quot; Steven Swink's seminal work seems mostly concerned that look and feel and play well a game causes the player in a way that's fun, and since from the sounds I'm basically the discoverer Does that mean I get to name it? Well, uh, I'm gonna call it Yeah, sure. If you've got a better name a large body of work dealing that I just missed, let me know and I'll go mope This is a little different called conveyance which is how what its mechanics are Play conditioning-- refers to how players are led by how the game is executed. I might just be splitting hairs with a new concept an important distinction there. Let's take a look at play in the early levels The first boss you encounter of health and can kill you or one in 1/10ths of a hit based and once he kills you, You revive in the Nexus where but even if you do beat it, you advance to this dragon The lesson no matter what is, The game's trying to tell you to fail sometimes so you might It's a warning about and the nature of death embrace that it's possible, The first time I beat and then passed through this giant, hulking monster and terrifying. &quot;Oh, shit.&quot; Your almost inevitable death immediately communicates seemingly insurmountable odds against them all You run into versions and clowning on them after all and weapons you've gained of how far you've come. but getting there the game for tens more hours, and that's not a particularly of return on your investment. Plus, being killed at the start of a game isn't exactly all that encouraging, It kind of has a negative effect Not everyone's going the game in this manner. - Okay, first enemy. First boss. - [character groans] - [HBOMB] Do you think he should be fast and frenetic The first real level It's a test bed for the sort be used against you It's probably intended the game to come and prime you and how to act. This area here has just in front of you that you'll but there's a guy also hiding Some games don't show you because the challenge is to see Countless enemies are going you can't quite see over and its successors, you know it can happen, and the real challenge is dealing but the problem is, if all of these ways can kill you do kill you, it does feel kind of shit. The game is still really, but it's hard to imagine a &quot;Souls&quot; game dying to this section and having a good time doing it. It's possible that with the lesson, &quot;and you should just give up possible way in the hopes Patrick played the game wrong by the experience I have to admit that after playing the first two so these early sections as they would have been if this with the series &quot;Dark Souls&quot; but it lessens it somewhat. You start, fight easy enemies and then, bam, He's huge and he probably To survive you have and through a door to the side, the first thing is a shield. What lesson does this instill It says, &quot;Hide behind this You loop back around by getting the drop on it It's definitely improvement one shot and then you're done the payoff of besting who probably beat you but by then the game's that shields are the way to go, so it's not surprising that run around and don't really play of active actiony way that lends You can see this with, for example, who Let's Played the game He plays very conservatively and has his shield up even just in case. He's very careful to get to the bonfire and once he gets his hands he spends a huge portion from behind his shield. In the description he explains that he played before giving up. this play style emerges the parts of the first two games to play the game in order to survive. Something very telling he does when is a good time to conserve his flasks. He learned to treat healing where you could literally and have none He takes a little while on the instinctive level that wasting some because it's not gone forever. he's actually suffering because of the way to play this kind of game. Critically, even &quot;Demon's Souls--&quot; but plenty of players and a few critics did agree Take for example Yahtzee, everyone's favorite fast-talking who I'm not jealous of at all. - [YAHTZEE] fuck you, A challenge is one thing, but trying to break down with your forehead isn't It's grounds - [HBOMB] to what &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; I remember people on forums his feelings about it. It's trial and error, it feels overly hard, you have to take it slow and that just isn't fun, At this point yeah, &quot;Dark Souls&quot; It got super popular and had many times the size of the one and even Yahtzee came around but hang on a second. Let's check out why. - [YAHTZEE] And after watching of the game, and a six-week preparation and physical trainers, I was able and I suppose that's of &quot;Dark Souls,&quot; that you need to get into it. - [HBOMB] It's hard to recommend &quot;But first here's all because that person's gonna say, &quot;you say this game's more fun &quot;but 'Zelda' doesn't require me &quot;or peer-reviewed journals for a few hours first.&quot; This doesn't mean &quot;Dark Souls&quot; I hope that goes without saying but that's a heck of a barrier isn't it? I'm gonna quickly list does better conditioning and helped onboard for it to Firstly, the opening You get killed by but you respawn just outside. The rematch is immediate. Instead of being killed of loss and failure the player is killed but then gets Losing, and winning becomes you know, Secondly, there's loads of life improvements. Being Hollow--the equivalent no longer halves your life. &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; was made if you ever died so the player was punished by making it easier a human form back, which is quite In &quot;Dark Souls&quot; you have and you're free to not feel like you already fucked yourself so you have less to lose and do better. Also, the Estus Flask. You had a finite amount You either found healing items or bought them using souls, Using one meant it was gone. This made deciding Like, if you die now, you basically wasted This made players less likely which meant they died more You could farm souls but you know what isn't fun? Farming items just to get a proper run at the boss. The Estus Flask regenerates meaning you never feel like because it'll come back. This made players more willing which made them live longer and have more fun. Those were the main two, There are more but they're not If I were making a game with &quot;Demon's Soul's&quot; system I would have made your life bar your actual life bar when you were human like a buff instead to use all of your health bar My third reason why &quot;Dark Souls&quot; is the existence I know it's a bit weird, but I think &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; felt to players that did stuff differently, and different doesn't always Some aspects felt Why would they make the game Why were there to directly kill me? &quot;Dark Souls&quot; by being the second is viewed differently Now all the weirdness in difficulty are justifiable. The fact they did it twice this is all just intentional.&quot; Suddenly bad ideas simply become staples For a movie example, &quot;The Purge&quot; had and its concepts when it came out, but &quot;The Purge 2&quot; and &quot;3&quot; didn't because they were the second in a series. So even if &quot;The Purge&quot; one which, yeah-- <i>[dramatic music]</i> It's worth keeping in mind a different critical perspective &quot;Dark Souls&quot; has slightly better but it's still quite clearly So it isn't just is a better game than although that is kinda true &quot;Bloodborne&quot; changes on a more subtle level. I have a theory about this ga-- nope, I have a hypothesis &quot;Bloodborne&quot; teaches you how Let me show you just a couple that seem small but have massive difference on Firstly, the most obvious one. There's no shield. Where is it? This isn't how these games work. You don't start the game no matter what. This is genius. [makes kissing noise] It's a spicy meatball Normally food metaphors are bad the design genius here. The shield has been the bane from the very start. It's the true villain and it's precisely because Let's go back. <i>[dramatic music]</i> <i> </i> [muffled speaking] A classic. You hold a button down from obvious harm you're facing. There's a parry mechanic to make an enemy and hit them but why take the risk? You can just block the attack and then attack Just wait. but you're only immune for a few frames. Why bother when you can This game's not so hard. Just hold the shield button. [voice distortion ends] The fun, and the incredibly engaging is immediately foreclosed Not necessarily better, but for early players, A good deal of players with their shield up playing waiting for only to drop it, and then bring it back up again. The shields only get bigger They seem to actively encourage than less over time. One reason why early players is because you can even use them It's encouraging the players play very, and just not have a good time. This is one major reason why They tell you you're going and then hand you a means and the immediate assumption you know, but it makes for boring, You could try parrying, or just put the shield away the other options available like two-handing the sword, but the game doesn't really seem No shield means no one is safe. You have to dodge, and your off-hand weapon unless you spec your character is for parrying. Parry or dodge or die. No easy, You now have no choice the fun way. I ju--I--I can't believe it. Can you imagine being in was looking at play test footage and coming up with the concept and he was like, &quot;Hey. &quot;Take out the shields.&quot; Like, &quot;What?&quot; &quot;Nani? Hidetaka, how will people &quot;By learning to play the game in a way that's actually fun, That's how Japanese people talk, &quot;No shields ever. &quot;Okay, one shield, &quot;Put a joke &quot;about them Passivit--&quot; Sorry. let's think about what lesson &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; hands you and then kills you and tells you &quot;Dark Souls&quot; kills you &quot;Bloodborne&quot; kills you and a gun. It's commonly said that is a good offense, and while I'm currently on trial for taking that concept it's certainly true here. It's just genius. It's always been possible Two-handing a weapon has always been viable and fluid than using the shield, but they're just to putting the shield up to take the risk the whole game like this, how far you get through a question of how committed and there are people the games like this, but they tend to have needed to figure out this style By removing shields, players are funneled into that particular play style and what's magical about this carries over The incredible potential to people without the need for themselves by investing tons that starts out feeling kind This is one reason why the early and &quot;Dark Souls&quot; one community because previously the only sort with early &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; to get to the place where is the kind of person to invest a lot of time not all that fun a certain type of person. The early fan base is a bunch of weirdos of person the series No offense intended here. I'm just being self aware. Without making the experience in fact by making it harder &quot;Bloodborne&quot; opens up this type of game and that's just magical, Don't you think? to be honest. what level of genius does to be able to go, &quot;and by removing a key aspect &quot;we're gonna vastly improve &quot;of this game but of all &quot;because people will go back and have a fucking great time.&quot; Like, oh, my God! I try not to, like, screech People--people say even though that Uh, but I just can't not. It's s-- [electric sparking] [enemy roars] - Whoo! Praise the mace. - [HBOMB] Now, I don't know for president but I already cast I have a--a mail-in vote video game schoo-- Complimenting this is rallying. That section of lost health and you get some if you hit an enemy. You can theoretically get almost every time. This feels at first like But think about how it impacts as they play the game. Now when you get hit, you don't immediately think and just break the flow In every &quot;Souls&quot; game that's the reaction. You can take your health back Bloody blimey! Like, now you always have a little more viscous It's hugely impactful and action of combat. Combined with the loss you're carefully encouraged into a mindset that's just and tactile and fun It's not even a huge difference, But it results to combat that's more satisfying like not using a shield-- carries back over &quot;Bloodborne&quot; at times feels like the previous ones because even killing an enemy before healing a smarter option anyway. You've been forced to get good to be obnoxious and hammer away for hundreds of hours The developers of &quot;Bloodborne&quot; for playing it badly. They blamed the game, [water bottle clacking] Mmm. The other way play is the slight change Quick weapons feel responsive and more deliberate of weight and power but the edges have been rough The biggest problem has been There are-- a bit too many. There's a bunch all with slightly different maces, rapiers, ultra greatswords, ridiculous fuck-off big battle axes, stupid axes, The variety initially seems fine it means you have to figure out of different timings for both one-handing all these weapons in order or which one is best It's not particularly inviting and did we really need of the same move set have had more clarity Did we really need and a claymore? &quot;Bloodborne&quot; solved this handily eight different directions Firstly, there's nowhere near but all of them are unique. There are variations like the Saw Spear has Ludwig's Holy Blade, but even they feel but they don't make you've lost out on tons you could have experimented with all have alternative forms of each individual weapon that let you switch between them which is really cool. Every weapon of moves and uses because no weapon or better I'm looking at you, sword that you get that's as a starting sword but There's no longer a really of the weapon you now have to switch it's under-leveled, these changes gently like the choice they made of living in constant fear that they're The Saw Cleaver can be and you can become intimately and never have to worry be using something else, and the weapons are unique that they never feel same-y for the whole game. If you really like there's one in there. It just happens to be able to turn into a cool weapon. The downsides to each weapon and understandable. the Kirkhammer's huge The sword cane is really quick that has a huge range but it doesn't deal Okay, there is one thing. It's actually It's alternate form It just becomes It's generally pretty strong and knowing when to electrify it It's downside is really silly, It has a low durability and it goes down quicker meaning you have by returning and fixing it up, but it doesn't deteriorate and repairing costs next It's at worst a hassle. That's not really much I get that it's trying to use sparingly. but in practice it doesn't to be a major issue to fix when it does get low. &quot;Dark Sous II&quot; actually had at a bonfire restored and durability so you really did have and some weapons really could a single run, instead of with is basically to repair a bit more than usual, which is just not I think this would if they'd ripped off and had durability when you die every time so you really did have to pick the fun time electric I think maybe some fans exhibited toward the developers that were genuinely better. Okay, I--I--I--I could spend of this video defending In fact, um, I-- like, half of the script but I do have some sense to be too much so I've cut and I'm gonna compile at the central complaints and why all of them are wrong and I'm gonna put that up in a separate video Uh, when that comes up, So, okay, cool. Uh, back to &quot;Bloodborne.&quot; While I have already talked the weapons have always a couple of attacks a little bit like traps; moves you really should not use because you'll never be they're actually useful especially with and the second or third moves The second heavy swing is a honey pot-- a sexy, powerful trap designed for attempting Almost every weapon for its R2 even if is that attack gonna get in this action game? Giving players that option to try and use it and suffer that doesn't really feel fun. Giving the players the option to get killed. &quot;Bloodborne&quot; makes a lot Firstly, the R2 is no longer or third swings. It's very definitively just It takes away of not knowing or doing the strong and seeing how many you It makes it immediately be doing the quicker attacks with the strong one or using it for its particular timing. This move set than the previous games it means players by moves that but beg you to keep using them because you technically so even though if you're given a big window, you can still maximize damage However, quick weapons or weapons aren't hamstrung by this. The whip function and can combo into as a relatively quick weapon, the idea of doing more isn't inherently a trap. A cute extra thing the really heavy weapon If you fully charged there's a second attack but only if I like this move because that if you're in a position a very slow and you did just you're probably as well have access but powerful move. this is the only weapon It's really cool. The fully charged R2 it also usually staggers whoever so that second attack for mastering one in the game. It's also worth mentioning that is no longer where you can make a weapon or a fire weapon or poison Yes, those in the same game. or a mundane weapo--uh, [exasperated gasp] Uh, half of these options unless you've built and the resources are rare enough that I get nervous whenever I'm at in a &quot;Souls&quot; game, &quot;Bloodborne&quot; keeps of the upgrade path. You spend Blood Echoes and Blood Stone Shards to make your weapon and bloodier, but there are also gems that you can put on a weapon to change its properties, but they explain what they do easy-to-understand ways so experimentation with weapons This relatively the whole game feel You know you aren't going or waste one of the two upgrade things you'll get and that makes you more willing and that just-- in a big way. The designs of the enemies been altered to force you in a more fun manner. Here are some from the previous games. They like to attack They walk up to you a rather simple attack. when they're done they kind of stop moving. Dodging backwards to get out of their range and free up some time Lots of bosses behave Get out of their range and you're in a safe zone Fast forward to &quot;Bloodborne.&quot; Most enemies move in an arguably When even early enemies attack, stumble ahead, Dodging backwards as early is a recipe for danger. The game immediately tells you to think harder about how you're dealing The second boss most people is intensely good at this. Both versions of this fight, both before and after he have attacks where dodging to be attacked again. almost all of his attacks The only way is to get good at parrying him or even forward through with your to get in a strike of your own, or you could keep trying and complain that My first few attempts were the least fun I'd had as someone as a seasoned &quot;Souls&quot; player was how I survived, this was the first major It forced me to unlearn in retrospect, and honestly By the time of the attempt I was having more fun in previous games because was more engaging I was choosing not to try the enemy wouldn't let me Instead, I was staying close and ignoring when I because I knew I would get the fight and hitting them. Defeating Gascoigne and once you've done so, you've proven of approaching battle in a way and quick and fast. You can't hang back and just not learn anything and be generally bored. You have to, well, the way many people but which doesn't I could stop right here. You can already see the point, When you pick up &quot;Bloodborne,&quot; the first couple of hours and mastering them train you but any game in the series After years of hitchhiking, normal people have finally to the &quot;Souls&quot; games, because these games are good. They just previously never quite or how to play them I feel that this and then went back why people who couldn't of them could get into this one it still wasn't really In his review of &quot;Bloodborne,&quot; <i>- And From Software who have <i>for about four games now.</i> <i>Fortunately it's <i>because I like explorative <i>I like subtle storytelling,</i> <i>I like banging my head against <i>with a scary monster drawn <i>If trying to break down <i>with your forehead isn't <i>it's grounds <i>From &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; <i>to &quot;Dark Souls II&quot; <i>same shit, <i>&quot;Dark Souls II&quot; <i>in a series that began <i>which I was thinking I should - Ooh, maybe you should a proper shot. you piece of shit. I'm not actually although I guess I kind of am because he didn't give a fair shot in the first place. I'm using his transition is just how perception when it gets iterated upon. This transition and why Yahtzee's gone and thinking that isn't fun to claiming he really likes and which in his opinion Good play conditioning to suddenly want to commit superficially very similar to the one This is why &quot;Bloodborne&quot; It's trained people that makes Some games can be but not very good Isn't it somewhat possible that slipped through they didn't fully prep and enjoy them. Maybe there's a right way At the very least, there's a right way and &quot;Bloodborne&quot; finally what that way is Okay, gonna be honest. I think I just summarized it which, all things considered, but while I'm here talking I might as well summarize it's so great and get more into Let's talk about the rest [church bell rings] The &quot;Souls&quot; games for &quot;II&quot; have this tendency an interesting story They're like, &quot;Oh, He went bad and/or mad,&quot; or the characters you meet who were also messing about They tend to be interesting or leave them. The story's extra wrinkles feel like they don't really add to the experience itself interesting stuff you There's an overall sense in the story and while it and it's cool to find out about, the player is essentially given where all the cool stuff All the major players or hanging out waiting &quot;Bloodborne&quot; is interesting on any singular quest. No one tells you to kill a bunch The game even makes a joke about but the dude's unwillingness is actually a clever setup is maybe himself The story is happening You're actively trying as you play not because to find out about in general on what's happening are having on the world. There's a real sense the course of the game and the people locked or sicker or begin to transform There's this game Legend of Ti--&quot; [smacks hand on leg] called &quot;Legend of Zelda: and in it there's this place It's a small by modern standards, but there's so much character for an N64 game. There are cool stores and just people hanging out and that music--it feels like One thing games is this idea that there's even a world worth fighting The entire world of the games populated only by the dying, the undead, the sad, and Scottish people. Link is being told he's supposed and here's a world worth saving. Hyrule Castle Town stuck with me when you pull out and time advances [wind howling] [birds chirping] It's become this horrible place. Only three things in this era of gaming ever gave me The terrifying werewolf that attacks you out of nowhere the landmine with eyes which legitimately scared me and coming out of the Temple that the lovely, to this. seeing it just change like that. That ability to imbue a sense is really important, Now, &quot;Bloodborne&quot; doesn't have the town was like but by starting just just a little bit covered you see that there is something and as those things start and things take there's that same sense have gotten so much worse, He was my favorite author that no one when I would In retrospect, he's not as great a writer and he's kind of one-note, but his writing has inspired and stories over the years the way he didn't and maintain of the unknown less secretly super racist stuff and &quot;Bloodborne&quot; is one It has a sense of cosmic terror in the third act, it comes in a big way, making it super surprising have been if it or been super predictable Oh, it's horrible! I hate it. The world design Okay, &quot;Dark Souls.&quot; Lots of alternate paths and secret ways [mutters] but you know what sucks? Backtracking all because you died anywhere near it. Too much time and forth through areas and the world so you're seeing and over except sometimes I know the entirety like the back of my hand. That's not because or interesting but because of it a lot to get or because I died again. &quot;Demon's Souls,&quot; was actually better. There's basically There's no interconnectedness, Each Archstone takes you and you go in a linear path It doesn't have pretentions or one big world on making levels and engaging to play through &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; than &quot;Dark Souls&quot; because at some point realized through each level and backwards would just wanna run past most were trying to go, so they designed areas to work out pretty good. &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; to destroy you but the trade off is more challenging it's designed from one particular direction. I will take good and open-feeling world I'll have every single time. The best areas in &quot;Dark Souls&quot;-- don't really interconnect and instead they're mostly from where you start It's the best area the developers only intend the way through it once in feeds you in count to challenge you of having to be designed in any direction which loosens what you Anor Londo feels a bit like of the Boletarian Palace were more willing and just be more interesting Fighting your way back out the way back through to get to the Darkroot Basin and just generally especially when I'm still in a dream &quot;Dark Sou--&quot; Darkroot Basin in general It's just of stuff to deal with of simplistic enemies If I wanted to have a mostly-empty world, I would just play <i>[dramatic music]</i> <i> </i> The Darkroot Basin also has the most dumb boss in the game who has two attacks they do over and which basically miss even &quot;Bloodborne&quot; combines both of each game. It's never got any areas and have nothing in them. Even areas taking place with well-made and let's not forget, actual traps that seem like they were laid out for a person. [rumbling] Jesus, no, no! [rumbling continues] [laughs] I saw it just [laughing] Backtracking are more lanterns are interconnected, many sections are essentially to the next area with short so you have a big open world but surprising amounts so you can have areas like this if you're approaching so all these enemies and hiding for you Coming back through this area but you never have because you never have to. You can teleport around easily. There's quite a delicate sense and traveling across areas because you have a key or some new thing by your actions, and thanks to a mechanic where an actual story progresses and the effects of insight, too, even pre-visited areas either visually or otherwise. Enemies change around, scary scythes, or just go to sleep, so the experience Cathedral Ward to go because it's changing being different. You're not just revisiting it or going through to get to the next new area. Okay, also co-op Trying to summon friends has always been super annoying. You have to hope you're on or the servers You have to go human and sit at the bonfire and hope you see and then maybe to help with Ornstein but as you can tell it didn't work and I died and I didn't have to try it again, and by do it myself, Also, being human makes it by other players. That becoming human-- the thing you do with something is also the thing to gank you to death. I can see the idea and risk-reward, but it's actually shit because it means you can be invaded before you even get to find someone you can summon, and if I'm summoning at all, &quot;Bloodborne's&quot; co-op feels like who assumed other people There's no human Instead, you ring Uh, in Britain we're actually and if someone else is ringing they're pulled in It's simple and you don't have for signs anymore. Only after summoning so you have someone helping you with the area you're and the new person coming definitely has which seems a bit more fair, and if you want to co-op you can both enter a password Also, insight seems to be than all the others so it's less likely you're to ask for help, Oh, and since insight is tied to certain enemies if you need a lot of help, so things Not much, It's really nice. Also, the sound design, Everything--the monster howls, the trick weapons into their alternate forms, the thunderous pounding the squelching of the monsters the extra diegetic-- that plays when you the squeal of the Tonitrus and thirsts for crime-- I hope the sound designers get the work they did making and in ten years once to be able to comprehend I'll even be able to read it. The key thing that proves in this game are, like, regular looking crows They attack by fluttering at you but they do this [crow screeches in deep voice] These crows are a nightmare. They hide in just and they make just a loud that it never feels like they're They're always just scary. They even come close Fucking Jesus Chri-- There's a section in Yahar'gul to stop and listen. There's ominous distant vague screams and cries It's really quite something. I don't like describing games or dripping with atmosphere That feels kinda like But even attempting to describe in an area has caused me this really subdued tone. To me, at least, the game's ability Also, because I'm standing cleaned out a bunch of enemies, ghosts keep appearing because they're I think that's kind of funny. Okay. Finally, the big monster &quot;Souls&quot; games are bad at these, I get it. A lot of people like and think he's cool they're interesting-looking, but in my opinion, which is the important bit. There's a common complaint as the &quot;dudes that &quot;Souls&quot; games feature that are just dudes in armor, monsters and the big, weird enemies don't react to me as a player. Human enemies respond with your sword, doesn't seem to even flinch most Even the final boss flinches so you at least know I am making some you can possibly imagine who incidentally I named Brexit, and she's like, &quot;I'm gonna continue moving like No selling all my best moves,&quot; just like all the other women Even Sif is negging me. And suddenly she's limping. I mean, aw, it's so sad. But where was this kind And you can't parry of any kind, either. It took me major trial for me to even determine in Sen's Fortress. By the way, but only some attacks. The &quot;Dark Souls&quot; wiki even has of what creatures you actually and what attacks you can parry. I get that not everything is technically humanoid that you can parry but it still feels in my opinion that of the most interesting like, half the enemies. You can kind It causes them to do but seriously, If you have just let me fucking parry Jesus. The timing Like, literally harder or dodging and all it does to take reduced damage. &quot;Bloodborne&quot; finally sorts It makes monstrous to being attacked, where you can suddenly like break individual limbs. When you finally topple because you knocked him there's a real sense that and rattled his... B--bones. On top of that, you can now parry most Even bosses can often That's what let me finally beat an embarrassing amount I personally never got bored Like, that was just in the &quot;Souls&quot; series thus far. It wasn't broken by coming up of monster but making the fights to your actions within them. I haven't played because I wanted but I hope that if it does have it has this kind I would honestly prefer than bad dogs or bad rats. No! the Blood Vials is j--are just just all the way through. I talked before about how is really, really good because of health, there aren't any items you Uh, you just have What I quite like is you have a lot but they're finite. You have enough that but you can theoretically so i--it becomes more like that you always to get your health back the way after an encounter but on top of that, you are really likely in fights with people. For example, I lose a ton of health, but I get all the vials back as a result of the fight and since they don't I am eventually supposed I don't, [monster screaming] Oh, ah! One issue in &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; was you could at a certain point and just carry them around which-- I mean, is maybe a problem to be challenging. &quot;Bloodborne&quot; kind of fixes it a really good healing item but having an upper limit you could ever possibly have, so I feel like &quot;Bloodborne&quot; by giving you a lot However, it is possible to farm for them, In my opinion, they could have had it or even 10 Blood Vials the way you do now, but that would completely of being able and use them like a regular item so maybe there's a reason why I mean, maybe the game designers I dunno. Blood Vials also heal of your maximum health a useful source for example, which is just piss. Also, you heal a lot faster. they--in previous games like, this risk-reward thing so if you want a huge risk but, uh, it seems like on having it be you can do almost any time and that's okay. Maybe it theoretically makes it but it's worth it because while healing if it's your fault, now you only ever die because or because you were attacking and that I think feels [church bell rings] There are still some criticisms where it falls short or seems Here's a kinda big thing. I'm a little disappointed The NPCs in &quot;Souls&quot; games as you or at least an amount However, they can do things Uh, it's fun and cool and it's just always neat. I like the garden leading up a lot just because unique NPCs that come including man Aw, there, there. [clacking] An idiot who forgot in slow motion and, oh, wow! Patrick Klepek's &quot;Demon's Souls&quot; And if you really like with similar abilities to you, there's a cat who wants the garden If you join their covenant occasionally you get summoned in yes, you--can get back-stabbed and wonder if PVP will ever In &quot;Bloodborne,&quot; stray hunters have obscene amounts of health. This puts you at and does away with the feeling and instead fighting that doesn't really play Stop shooting me! None of them can heal which kinda balances it out Actually, no, some and they get back a ton and it's kinda messed up. I know it's possible to get in and it's more challenging but it's not challenging It feels off. these fights would be if they had an equivalent amount but could get their health back and would heal themselves There'd be more interesting back the previous game, like a long, dull slog every time getting them slowly back down before they suddenly Great, now I have to come back and hope he doesn't &quot;Bloodborne?&quot; Uh-- [electric sparking] You can fucking hit me out while I'm hitting you. That is a fucked up thing That's fucked up, right? Also, they have seemingly which is just rude. invasions by other players of this mechanic perfectly. I got invaded exactly once and it was exhilarating. We both came close and made spaces to heal Healing is super quick were smart enough That's how I won in the end. I kind of wish and that's not really something the &quot;Souls&quot; series. Maybe I'm just being or maybe that one invasion it's forced me to wish in the game itself, but I think an improvement in a theoretical &quot;Bloodborne II&quot; that resemble that kind I want the sense that got where they did by being with the same assets as me, not because they inexplicably and infinite ammo. <i>- Oh.</i> <i>But because it means dead-- <i>[both laughing]</i> I also think while good and fun, has the inherent downsides you can't easily buy more a bit too expensive per vial or boss that kills you a lot, you're not gonna be so you inevitably have or the souls to buy them, and that's just not great There's also some incredibly aren't designed for the areas like some of the bosses I'd like you to tell me And why do you have to go back every time That's kind of annoying. These are all relatively in the grand scheme. My main problem with the game is also the best demonstration of &quot;Bloodborne&quot; is so good: Oh, my God. They're--they're of the game where you can go fighting more bosses and some of them meaning there is theoretically but I'm gonna be honest. By stripping out the part where are carefully designed and interesting in a fair and reactive way, the dungeon segments in ways that simply aren't fun. A--Accidentally, we still have level designers a computer churn out The Chalice Dungeons are so that this guy who spawns in, in any given dungeon, like-- one of the bosses it's just three of him. So on some floors you beat one hit the switch that unlocks and then you fight three more You know, I've heard criticisms in the &quot;Souls&quot; series start but honestly they don't where you're literally the same guy over and over I'm not covering in very much detail here because about &quot;Bloodborne&quot; enough So it's not really gonna hammer Like, this room you're seeing you will see this room and over for hours. That is all They're--they're a-- five, six different kinds Honestly, watch this part like, two and a half hours a full replication of the Chalice Dungeon to record to make this video. Even the pre-made dungeons of rooms over and over. You know what it reminded me of? &quot;King's Field,&quot; and no game should be like Oh, hey, look. I'm so fucking surprised. They also reveal how good by showing how much care have gone into making all and feel as good as they do, and they do that by showing have been if they hadn't Yharnam does the impossible and complex while being on one big kind of very similar kinds The Chalice Dungeons remind me that don't hold up They're almost literally just with grimy stone textures If &quot;Bloodborne&quot; were released that used this randomly or if the whole game looked the Chalice Dungeons, There's this game It's billed as It's kind of boring. The enemies are repetitive, even quick attacks feel slow and more importantly, the lack of design in any means there's no character It's the Chalice dungeons of being attached I guess what I'm saying when they're designed by people. Weirdly enough, while some of the new bosses that only appear are repeated a lot across them much time or effort and don't strike me as in and of themselves, several of them are super fun once you get to them. It's almost a shame that to pass through to get to them or actively unfun because I almost wonder if all are the ones they made so they didn't bother which naturally means are the ones that feel the most like they should Look at that! There's a boss from earlier just walking around by two other bosses and they--th--they kill him What? The Chalice Dungeons make a lot of points for me about of level design and execution and show how wouldn't be enough and fun experience. You need the push and pull in just the right places, scaling the difficulty through careful development <i>Oh, I fuckin' see you, mate.</i> <i>Yeah, I've play--I've played <i>- You outwitted him.</i> <i>- Welcome. <i>That's the first trick they pull <i>- Yep, it got me <i>- This is a true &quot;Souls&quot; game.</i> <i>Don't even bother looking <i>The real victory was-- <i>- Oh, Jesus! <i>I was feeling so full <i>and, like, another guy came.</i> <i>Holy shit.</i> <i>This game's amazing. If you like walking to box room full just plopped in there and--oh, look, then I guess are for you. If you like the Chalice Dungeons I--I can see an appeal to that, but let's admit that And--and if that for you then I'm sorry but you are-- [church bell rings] Here's the part where I wrap up about how developers have things but do they? Not every game has to learn something Not every game crackling deliberateness, such a test of perception over raw mechanical input or such a specific sense and esoteric horror. While many designers might a method they could get across their own intended a way of helping players from their work by altering with which they perceive it, an equal if not larger amount to learn absolutely nothing. Gamers everywhere have already at attempts to commodify their enjoyment The endless descriptions &quot;It's like 'Dark Souls' the sad truth the &quot;Souls&quot; games is because they would have been You know, I thought I wanted that was a bit but then when I actually got it, I realized there they didn't make one More importantly and cultural overreaction to the series While lots of folks have always the series even since its spiritual successor becoming with a huge swath of players of games writers to kind of go into overdrive about I can already predict this video halfway through &quot;Why did you bring up 'Thumper' &quot;'Thumper's' a rhythm game. &quot;What does it have to do &quot;with bloody action adventure the 'Souls' games?&quot; Well, apart from how games can engross you, It doesn't really have much in with the &quot;Souls&quot; series. The main reason I brought it up was reading reviews of &quot;Thumper&quot; to see what people thought I found a review that called it &quot;The 'Dark Souls' I could say &quot;the 'Dark Souls' of something is like &quot;Dark Souls&quot; of comparison and easy clicks and it kind of is, but it's more that we to communicate why something &quot;Thumper&quot; is done a disservice as &quot;the 'Dark Souls' because it indicates the language is good without having to a singular experience all that much like it when I remember Yahtzee's In it he makes this point. - So I'd ask them and they'd reply, You just have to find out and then I'd say, ideally both in either order.&quot; - He kinda skips over it but what he's doing here the problem. We as a community to really come up with why or we enjoy it to vaguely gesture because words have failed us. It's a hard series to pin down, Trust me. I've just spent to do so because when we grapple we're ultimately interrogating and that's to do indeed. At least, I assume that's why my therapist charges so much, but good criticism means I can completely see critics, and journalists use but I think the onus to be willing to be long, willing to be, yeah, or pedantic at times in order of gaming experiences which I hope I've done, I probably, uh-- didn't. For things to fully get judged on their own merit, we have to start examining in concrete terms. For the record I've seen described beating as like the feeling of beating The point is the level achieved than having any pure I mean, they're completely It's hard to do but Scoops managed it. Hmm, a hard thing to do I guess that makes the &quot;Dark Souls&quot; of game criti-- &quot;Bloodborne,&quot; a game about with increasing amounts is itself The precise beauty of the experience make all on its own, but perhaps more importantly than being one of the best games it inoculates the problems the &quot;Souls&quot; series to rid itself for years. The previous games but their design of playing it that and just not all that fun It was--to coin yet another being handed a very good bowl shout out to soup-- but being given to eat it with. It took a lot of time were more funner ways than it presented itself, and by then people &quot;Bloodborne&quot; is better soup, it's soup that comes with &quot;Hey, don't use the shield. &quot;Just find a spoon or just pour me directly Also, the bowl somehow a theoretical infinite amount but it's cordoned off of the soup and completely Okay, I probably should This isn't doing very good. What ways do I expect the series Well, I'm honestly daunted of the From Software team, so I really can't wait by how they improve on it At the very least, though, I do hope that with complimentary bread sticks. [laughs] I can't end the video like that. <i>[upbeat synthwave music]</i> <i> </i> I'd like to say to Aaron Salzbrun, Alexander Corbett, AmyB, Aqui1a, Ben Adamson, Bill Mock, Brennan Artzt, Caleb McMurphy, Charlie Robertson, Clawsou, Damian Edny, David Durmazolu, Derek Pranger, Emily O., Femininja, Froot, HaruspicusSA, Jack Harvey, Jan Anders, Jay Logan, Jeffrey Theobald, Jon Cantwell, that's right. Kafzeil, Kevin M Knipe, Leiden Pierce, Lyzzi Edwards, Marco Schade, Mitchel Reedman, Neverminder, Olivia Mello, Rebecca Washum, Rennslayer, Samael, SeanKemp, Siegfried Pinzer, INSTANT GRAT, Stefan Lindberg, Thad Wesolowski, Jenny Angel, Young Kauri, Zachary Chan, iamturnip, and rikame. While the rest of the credits uh, in case you want to know, yes, I am planning but it's taking some time to approach it with enough that I give it a proper shot, I wanna take my time with it. So I want to make at least in this style If you think about it, it took me eight years and as of November 10th, &quot;Fallout 4's&quot; only been out So give me a little bit, The best part about is I still haven't played or the DLC for &quot;Bloodborne&quot; making this video since, July? This video was supposed in October as, like, but I--I missed that, I can finally play [chuckles] People who back me get access and also why I recorded, like, of me playing &quot;Bloodborne&quot; that I'm gonna put out there. Uh, so there's that, but also I shot uh, for this video to take out because I realized So, uh, that stuff's gonna I really want to put out and kind of putting off working at all ever, I fell really bad about that, so I'm gonna put a whole bunch as soon as I can so, uh, <i>[intense music]</i> <i> </i> Wow, you sat through all That's very nice of you. If you backed me to get your name in there. I always worry if I somehow I literally just copy If I've made a huge mistake, but as a present who bothered to sit through of all the people who allow me I'd like to just throw some &quot;Shadow of Mordor.&quot; &quot;Deus Ex: Human Revolution.&quot; &quot;Vampire: The Masquerade Feel free to write one in a comment on this video and see what it causes