Humans have long wondered about the structure of matter The Greek philosopher Democritus an indivisible building block of matter. He believed it came in many shapes, Over two millennia later, these shapes Around 1900, the electron was discovered, which was proposed to exist scattered within the sphere. A few years later, the nucleus was discovered and the model evolved. To electrons traveling in fixed orbits around the nucleus. Uncertainty principles introduced us to quantum mechanics, and wavelike electrons became a probability cloud surrounding the nucleus. But what about the world of the nucleus? A tiny point of positive charge, a trillion times smaller than the atom itself. Before we dive in, let's back up. Way back. The diameter of the Earth is 10,000km. Zooming in on Boston, the size of the MIT For orders of magnitude smaller. Let's add a fictional child's pool of water on top of the MIT dome. With the scale of one meter diving into its water we reach a cube of water Three more orders of magnitude. In, we reach a scale of one micrometer. When we reached we start to see the motion of the water Zoom in by a factor of ten. We reached the size of a hydrogen atom. Five more orders of magnitude. In. We arrive at its nucleus. The proton. Inside this proton, speeds in an infinitesimally small volume. We are now deep in the quantum realm. The hydrogen atom has a nucleus The size of a nucleus is measured in units of femtometers. A proton has a radius of nearly one femtometer, 100,000 times smaller than the size of its hydrogen atom. This proton exists in a quantum state At a high shutter speed, we see an ocean of gluons. At a medium shutter speed, and quark antiquark pairs, and at a low shutter speed, More complex nuclei contain not only positively charged protons, While the proton can exist by itself Neutrons on their own are unstable into a proton electron, and antineutrino, but neutrons remain stable when bound Oxygen-16 contains eight protons and neutrons. If we look deeper, the fundamental quark But for our purposes, they are hidden. We will concentrate on the structure In future work, we will illustrate by the nucleus they live in. Oxygen-16 has a charge radius of 2.7fm. To better define the velocities of particles at such small distance, scales. We establish the baby second as ten to the -23rd seconds. A photon moving at the speed of light crosses three femtometers a bit more than the radius of oxygen-16 in one baby second. In this animation of the nucleus, the protons and neutrons are randomly distributed and contained within a radius, limiting their motions. The neutrons are distinguishable by their blue tones. The individual protons and neutrons particles will both attract and repel each other based on proximity to mimic the strong nuclear force, and a noise field is introduced to stir them around randomly. The protons and neutrons inside move on average about one third the speed of light in the period of a baby second, protons and neutrons traverse one femtometer. Compare this motion with that of the point-like photon that moves at the speed of light across our femtometer ruler. Shown here is helium for the most abundant multi-nucleon system. When peering inside the protons and neutrons, the quarks and gluons move with the speed of light. It would take a proton about three baby seconds to traverse a helium four nucleus. And for a larger nucleus like copper 64, about ten baby seconds, where both helium-4 and copper-64 nuclei are predominantly round. Shapes of some even heavier nuclei can be quite deformed, with elongation by a factor of three. This is caused by the nucleus vibrating and rotating with protons and neutrons moving in lockstep. The typical period of such a nuclear rotation is about 100 baby seconds. The period for nuclear vibrations is shorter about 20 baby seconds, roughly the same time for a proton to do a round trip in a medium heavy nucleus. The size of most nuclei grows with the number of protons and neutrons inside them, though there are striking exceptions. Lithium-11 with three protons and eight neutrons, has a similar radius as Lead-208, with 82 protons and 126 neutrons. Lithium 11 is called a halo nucleus and can be visualized as a core with two additional neutrons circling in the periphery. Many heavy nuclei, such as lead-208, have a surplus of neutrons that one would expect to be on the outside and form a neutron skin. Indeed, the radius that neutrons occupy in lead-208 is larger than that of the protons. But despite the large surplus of 44 neutrons, the difference is only 0.2fm. This is due to the specifics of the proton neutron force. Carbon-12 and oxygen-16 are crucial to life. The cornerstone of life is the chemical process in plants where sunlight converts carbon dioxide, carbon, and oxygen and water into plant food, glucose and oxygen. The elements hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon account for 93% of the mass of the human body. Carbon-12 consists of six protons and neutrons that occupy a sphere with a radius of 2.5fm. Oxygen-16 packs two more protons and neutrons, each in a sphere with the radius of 2.7fm. Those additional protons and neutrons make a huge difference. Oxygen is a gas. Oxygen is the most abundant element in Earth's crust, and after hydrogen and helium, it is the third most abundant element in the universe. Oxygen is continually being replenished in Earth's atmosphere by photosynthesis. Carbon is a solid carbon's abundance. Its unique diversity of organic compounds and its unusual ability to form polymers at temperatures commonly encountered on Earth, enables it to serve as a common element of all known life. Oxygen, carbon and the elements that make up our universe are all created with the same basic quantum building blocks. By just adding or removing protons, neutrons, and electrons, the matter they create at the macro level varies with an incredible diversity of properties. Despite the dominance of these elements, a large variety of nuclei are used in technical applications benefiting humankind. For example, tritium or hydrogen-3 is used to power exit signs. Carbon-14 is used to date our Earth world history and art. Fluorine-18 is used as a tracer for brain and biological imaging. Cobalt-60 has been used to help reduce disease and extend food shelf life. Technetium- 99 is widely used in nuclear medical imaging. Samarium-153 is used to treat bone metastasis. Americium-241 is used in smoke detectors. By adding or removing these quantum building blocks of the proton and neutron. An incredible diversity of nuclei can exist. These elements play a critical role in human life in our bodies, our health and safety and the world around us.