The B-1B Lancer has long been one of produced. Able to fly supersonic (and at quantities of weapons with pinpoint precision, However, the B-1 bomber we know today was does today. The Lancer evolved from a long designs to serve a very distinct stop-gap task. the Rockwell B-1A, which never saw duty but The concept of developing a high-altitude, long-range bomber with supersonic capabilities the true strength of surface-to-air missiles quicker and higher an aircraft could fly, the In the mid 1950s, the B-58 Hustler became faster than Mach 2. Even before its introduction, larger aircraft. In 1955, the US Air aircraft able to outperform both the range, and payload. A proposal was put on the faster than the B-58 and with larger Initially referred to as the XB-70 Valkyrie, previous flight records for a bomber. almost as fast as the SR-71, while However, in 1960, the aircraft's promising The downing of a U-2 that year highlighted the missiles. For the B-70 program, this would at high altitudes, but the Air Force realized counter the threat of increasingly sophisticated In 1961, President Kennedy cancelled the B-70 program, relegating the prototype and attention was redirected towards low In the early 1960s, is new type of bomber F-111. Designed for Air Force and Navy, this featured an advanced terrain following radar, and of an F-4 Phantom. While the F-111 had several it did fulfill the role decisions It proved that a low-level supersonic strike aircraft During this period - the early 60s - the Air F-111, but larger; something that could take over B-70. Several programs were started, involving a of this effort was the Advanced Manned Strategic which had the goal of essentially replicating By this time, optimism for a next generation and designers alike, believed that bombers were increasingly fast and accurate - exemplified in the drawbacks inherent in a fleet of bombers. similar feelings. His solution: upgrade the B-52 In 1969, however, this would all change. the AMSA program was reinvigorated, and in was sent out. By January 1970 three major players American (later North American Rockwell). Of and in June that year the green light was given to develop a working prototype of the North American would change its name to then receive direction from the Air one ground test and three What Rockwell was developing would share especially the F-111. It would feature variable performance. It would feature a crew escape huge fuel capacity meant that supersonic flight of time, and better still the aircraft could Initially - if budget permitted - the B-1A thanks to variable geometry as well as small vanes on the nose to smooth ride. Titanium would be used to reinforce extreme vibrations and forces which the aircraft it was a similar story. The B-1A would be In October 1971, the B-1A would be put under aircraft was held. Almost three hundred changes for which the prototype had fallen short. But albeit at a large cost. In 1971 it was expected Air Force analysts had hoped to see 240 operation by 1979. This optimistic As time went on, inflation began to take its issues plagued the US from 1972 onwards, and under the microscope. The B-1A would feel the expensive titanium components were culled, around Mach 0.8. The crew ejection module conventional ejection seats; quite the Nevertheless, the project was still moving take its maiden flight. This aircraft - which had flown to Edwards Air Force base by Rockwell test Richard Abrams. This now working aircraft was placed close to the aircrafts centre of gravity would be felt at low altitude. It would seat four to handle defensive and offensive systems. The and internally it featured three weapons pounds of weapons could be stored in each, and capacity. This gave the B-1A almost twice The third aircraft to roll off the taking its first flight on March 26, 1976. The at the time, one of the most complex systems which influenced its price and manufacturing the decision was made to move the B-1A program delivered for further research purposes, 240 fully serviceable bombers being pushed the original batch of phase 1 aircraft reminiscent of the XB-70, and today seen on the B-1A was only intended to wear its Despite its potential, the B-1A once again came to cost over $70 million per unit, almost double development process behind the design had dragged the Soviets were pivoting towards more advanced with better radars and onboard computer systems of the B-1A. Notably, when MiG-25 pilot he detailed how the Soviet's next interceptor and track low flying targets on radar with a would also be Mach 3 capable, even at altitude These strategic military issues soon became election cycle, Jimmy Carter made the B-1 project claiming that the program would be a colossal administration had reviewed the program, and higher. The final nail in the coffin, however, of a new stealth bomber under production and launched in the hundreds by a squadron of older enemy airspace with small, hard to pinpoint, Subsequently, on June 30th, 1977, Carter officially end. In its place would be and further funding for ICBM stealth bomber - part of the Advanced Technology an aircraft which was claimed to be able to The controversial decision to cancel Immediately following the announcement, two American DOD personnel believed that Soviets. The Soviets on the other hand Russian media at the time perceived the missiles as Carter's attempt to undo Nixon's Even after cancellation, the remaining prototypes purposes. The B-1A was clearly an incredible it was recorded reaching Mach 2.22 at altitude, a significant margin. However, for several years the Following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in reinvigorated. In 1980, president-elect Ronald speaking about it in positive terms and unfortunate decision, and such an the type of war the Soviets were Reagan began reassessing the program as soon as this new stealth bomber - which would become believed the B-1A could be modernised before the promised stealth bomber. Thus, the In 1982, Rockwell was awarded over $2 billion B-1s. These new versions would need to have stores capacity, higher speed at low altitude, and going up against several new threats; namely the Now with the working name of B-1B, designers 477,000 pounds. The aircrafts intakes were This halved its high-altitude speed to Mach 1.2 to Mach 0.95. Its outward appearance would also turn producing a smaller radar cross section, And with all this, the B-1B would still be able By this time, two of the B-1As had been retired, now painted in a desert camo. Three of the initial include B-1B systems for testing, while fully were also being manufactured. In March 1983, the and on October 18th the following year, the first The original B-1As would see activity dark low visibility scheme mimicking the these aircraft were crucial in providing Still a controversial topic the B-1B program was in and by 1988 the 100th airframe - the final to The B-1B would go on to serve in several conflicts still in service. Rather than being a mere of the B-2 Spirit, the B-1B has taken on a unique the B-52, and less of a risk to deploy than the in counterinsurgency warfare, and it seems that There are several plans to phase out the B-1B remain a serious deterrent against opponents. The a seriously impressive aircraft for outperformed its successor, yet never had since its maiden flight in 1974, the B-1A may but it remains a sleek, technologically