In this DaVinci Resolve tutorial, we'll cover your videos like a pro. Let's dive in. To get You can click on the link right there in the top the description down below, and you'll also see there are two different options, DaVinci what's the difference? DaVinci Resolve is free to capabilities. I made the first few hundred videos version costs a one-time, $295, which gives you isolation to clean up your audio. You get magic transcribe the audio in a video. Those are My recommendation, start with free, and if you later. To download, click on this button, select fill in some details about yourself. If you're you can check out their privacy policy right DaVinci Resolve, it'll launch the main project projects that you've worked on and you could right-hand corner, let's start with a new project. and here you can type in a name for your project. Cookie Company. I'll type that in and then click Resolve interface, and at first glance, there's we'll make sense of it. Down at the very bottom, DaVinci Resolve, and by default, it drops we'll spend most of our time in the edit page. pages as well. So down below, let's click into the interface that I have here, that way let's reset the UI. To do that, up on top, let's here, there's the option to reset the UI You should have your screen match exactly what you we first need to bring in some media, so think of side of your screen, you'll see a section that's place all of our media. Right up on top, if and that gives you more screen real estate for and that shows the media pool. By far, the easiest drag and drop it in. Here, for example, I have video files, I have some music files, and I also simply select all these files and then I can it tells me that it's going to change the project I'd like to do that, so I'll click on change. with this video, I've included all of these same click on the link and you could download them and we've imported all of the media files, here's a DaVinci Resolve. Select the first video clip that of the last video clip. Press the shift key and of these clips and there's the option to generate resolution version of all these video clips. And faster and also smoother. When you finally go to material, so you'll get the top quality on export. Let's click on this. Once it's all done generating to use the proxy media while we're editing. Up the second option is proxy handling. Hover over This way it'll use the proxies as we're editing optimization to get a smoother editing experience. the option for timeline playback resolution. these are only necessary if you notice that while editing. If you have a high-end computer, preview some of the media that we imported into and here I have a clip titled 1.mp4. As I hover the right-hand side, you'll see the source viewer that's in our media pool. Here I'll hover over also double click on this clip and that loads I have a few different controls that I can use that I could use to scrub through. So here I the way through the end. Right over here, I can will play it back and here I could stop it. I have to the media pool and over here I could click in the source viewer. I could also come down and all the different sound waves that make up that and preview what an image looks like. Now that I want to put the clips together to tell a story. has to be some type of cohesive message. To screen called the timeline and you'll see that what is the timeline? This is where you arrange and effects in a sequence to create your video or workspace where you can move, you can cut and you We're going to use the timeline now. To add a and then find a clip that you would like to add to press and hold and then you can drag it down to You could place these clips in whatever order you I'll press and hold on this and I'll drag it to take clip number two and I could drag this down to over a little bit. You could even select multiple files using the shift key and then I could drag Let's scroll over. I can also double click on a just like we saw earlier. I can also bring it from press and hold on the clip in the source viewer, places it there. As I pulled in these different viewer in the top right-hand for reaching out. Let's go all the way back to the beginning and here are the play heads right at similar to the source viewer, I have all my Here you'll notice that it's now playing back clips on the timeline. Here we see the play head And right over here, we're about to shift clips viewer. Let's click on stop and I'll move the benefit of having two viewers is that you can view then you could view what's on the timeline using to have the timeline viewer, in the top right-hand on this, this will get rid of the source viewer Click on this and that returns it to the previous down below is starting to fill up and we can't Of course, we could go down to the scroll bar and favorite tricks, you could also press the middle timeline. That works really well. If you want to you can adjust the view. So here I can click on in again. And another quick trick, you can press mouse wheel. So here I can zoom out or I can zoom can press shift together with Z on your keyboard visible area. As an alternative, if you don't like right here and this is called full extent zoom. working on the timeline. You can press the end key all the way to the end. Or you could press the way to the beginning. Just a quick way to navigate we have a variety of different tools that help us Here, for example, we can see that the selection If I hover over any one of these tools, you'll see and you'll also see the associated shortcut key. name implies, select different items on your I'll select clip number two and here I can lift position. You'll notice that when I move it, it to undo and that'll move it back to where it was. fills in that gap, you can press control shift on And here, if I place it at the end, you'll notice go back and move clip number two. I'll select it bring it close to clip number 10 on the timeline, different tools, you'll see this magnet icon and use a shortcut key N. If I turn snapping off, look it no longer snaps to the end. And here I can I turn this on, here it'll snap right to the end. don't know if I need clip number three, so I'll press the backspace key on my keyboard and that this gap. To remove the gap, I can select the gap and there it's all gone. Let's press control Z If I would like to ripple delete instead, which gap. I can press shift together with backspace even easier way. You can select the clip, then ripple deletes that clip. That's a quick way now remove all of the clips from the timeline. can also press control A on your keyboard and that and we should now have a clear timeline. I'd one. Up in the top left-hand corner in the media this and this will also load it into the source timeline. Here, I'll drag it from the source here, if I move the play head, you'll notice that start with a 14-second-long clip, everyone's going it down. Let's delete this clip from our timeline, using the source viewer. Let's quickly preview scrub through the video. We see the milk filling is dipped in the milk. Now I think I just want the scene. So, I want it to start right at about this right down below, we have these two icons. We can point. So here I'll click on this and you'll I see a light gray and I also see a darker gray. to show the light gray portion if I pull it down if I pull it down, you'll notice a clip is now done dipping, I think that's about all I need. So that. And here you see that it'll just include keys. You can also press the I key to set the in I've set both an in point and an out point, let's it down and let's press shift Z to zoom in on it. seconds long and the clip on the timeline now viewer. Let's now pull another clip down onto love this shot of these cookies on the baking tray onto the timeline and I'll place it after clip to fit all of the timeline into the visible view. clips. As you can see, clip number two is also far this down, but let's look at a different way that of clip number two and you'll notice that my mouse now trim the beginning of the clip. So, I'd like and you have some sunlight shine on them. Now one if you look in the top right-hand corner at the current position is as I'm trimming. So, I want go all the way to the end and here I can also button at the end, I get that same icon and here corner, I also get a preview of where I'm trimming right next to that as I expand or decrease the clip is. So right there it's about three seconds I'll release. So that's another way that you can here I can press on this clip and I can drag it one. Let's now bring another clip down onto the select clip number three. I'll press and hold on I'll place it right there. You'll notice that this to trim it. Let's go over right to about here. let's select the clip and this time we're going key together with open bracket and that'll trim a moment or two, maybe right until about there bracket and that also trims it. But you'll notice that? Well, let's press control Z to undo and If you'd like to use shortcut keys and trim the control shift, open bracket and there it fills until about here and I'll press control shift, there's nothing after it, so you didn't have it would have filled in that gap. You might be to remember all of these shortcut keys. Well, let's click on DaVinci Resolve and right here, yes, that too also has its own shortcut key. When shortcut keys in DaVinci Resolve. So, you can of these shortcut keys. Now, right here, we have here's trim. That's what we've been doing. We've there's the option for ripple. If I expand this control shift, open bracket, and then end to play neat things is you can also set your own shortcut head is Q and end to play head is W. So, I can use a clip. So, let's test this out. I'll close out let's say the beginning here. I'll press the Q key that'll also trim it. You can set the keyboard easy. Let's now go to the media pool and let's and drag it down to my timeline and let's place and to do that, we can use something called the looks like a blade. You can also press B. And a blade when I hover over a clip. Let's say I want press with my mouse and that splits it. To switch on this and now I could select again. So, I could As an alternative, over here, I can place my play press control together with backslash. And when that point, and there I could remove that portion options. Now that you know some of the fundamental commercial by adding the talk track. Over in the or voiceover for this commercial. I'll press and I have another track for audio. I'll release right It's about 30 seconds long. Let's now press the very beginning of the timeline. And as another back the timeline. Let's have a quick listen at Kevin Cookie Company make your day delicious. That little bit low. To adjust the audio levels, let's page gives you full control over the audio of track number one, and if I press the shift key I can see the waveforms better. Now you'll notice press spacebar and over on the right-hand side, to see where they're landing. From our classic Each cookie is made. So that actually looks fairly between negative 10 dB and negative 15 dB, and it I can move it up just a tiny bit. If I click on adjust it down. So, you could get the audio levels you can also right click on one of the audio the audio levels. But I think for now, these Fairlight page, you have all sorts of different would like it to sound. For example, let's go up opens up all sorts of different audio effects little bit of an Ess sound when you're speaking. simply drag this effect and here I could drop it I have various controls that I can use to this dropdown and let's go with a male Ess since of this. Over on the right hand side, you can see number one. You could also adjust things like perhaps you want to turn on a compressor, an Let's close out of this and let's jump back to now like to add a few more clips onto my timeline. trimming this directly in the source viewer. I'll I could drag this down onto my timeline. It's right here. I'll use the trim handle. Over here, I is far too long. So, let's try trimming and here I think that's a good spot. Now with clip number you'll notice when I pull it down, it also has file. So, let's press escape and that'll cancel. this loads clip number seven in the source viewer. down at the bottom. This allows me to drag in for example, I could click on the video or alternatively, I could also just pull in the I'll click on the video file and this pulls it the content. And I think this portion looks good. there and then I could press W and that trims of getting clips onto the timeline and trimming add all the different clips to the timeline? You right amount of time. Each clip is numbered, so but you could also adjust the order if you think the video. So go through and do that and I'll do all the different clips to my timeline and I think what's missing though is we need some music. So, between all the different video tracks and all the size so we can see more of the audio view. And I have two different songs. I wasn't quite sure to you. Over here, I'll select one of the tracks I could select another audio track and I'll place these different songs independently. So over here us to listen to the talk track with audio number song or more of an epic sounding song. Let's something sweet. Let the Kevin Cookie Company make sound. I like that. Let's now mute the second listen to this one. Craving something sweet. so it really depends on what type of feeling you track number two. So over here I'll mute the third stick with this one, but it's up to you which song the levels of the music compared to the talk to balance that out better. So down below in page. With music, you generally want it to type of talk track. That way you can hear the let's jump right to about this portion and then of the levels. Let's hit the spacebar to play. right at around negative 10 dB and I really With the music track down here, I play it back and I'll adjust as it's playing. Company cookies. Order now and taste the love in joy one cookie.&quot; Over on the right-hand side, as peaking around that negative 30. I'll go back and corner. &quot;So why wait? Treat yourself or someone you can really hear the speech, but you could also levels are pretty good, so let's jump back to video. If I jump forward to clip number 12, you'll the top and also on the bottom, but none of the I'd like to remove it here. I'll select this clip the attributes or the properties of this clip the inspector, I can adjust all the different the pitch, the yaw. I could crop the video clip. stabilize it. All sorts of different options, but those black lines. So over here, I'll place my here, I can press and hold and move it over to the other direction, it'll zoom out. But I want to about there. Now, if I were to zoom in far too far on this icon to undo or I could double click setting. But let's zoom in just a tiny bit. Let's good. Let's now jump forward to the last clip on down arrow and that'll jump to the end of the but let's press down and that'll bring me right This is a vertical video. So here we have these I would like to remove them. So just like we did on the timeline, we have all the properties and you can get a very large picture of me. I'll the position. So over here, I'll press and hold in commercial finishes with a shot of me. I like that just a little bit cold and I would like it to be let's go down to the bottom and click into the you have full control over the look and the feel surface on some of the things that you can do. Now down in the bottom left-hand corner, we can open gamma. So over here, I could take this and I could and that'll make it a little bit warmer. If here we have a category called gain and over here image brighter. But that's far too bright. I don't this icon right up here and that brings it back to the gamma. Over here, I could also adjust the that'll add a little bit of contrast. Now, as changes, you might be wondering, well, how does you originally had, you can select the node up control D on your keyboard, and that brings back D again, and that brings back the new version. satisfied with it. So down below, let's click you'll notice that the songs go on far beyond the Just like we could trim video clips, you can also play head at the end and here I can select both press W on my keyboard and that trims them both to I'd like to show the Kevin Cookie Company logo. it appear. Let's play. The Kevin Cookie Company think as soon as he mentions Kevin Cookie Company, Over in my media pool, here I have the logo PNG. it over to my timeline and I'll place it on video then I could trim it just like we've been trimming it starts right at that point. I placed the logo what does that do? Well, let's move the play head video clip underneath. Think of this as layers track appears over whatever's on the video track appear this large. Otherwise, you can't even see the timeline, up in the top right-hand corner, adjust all the properties of the image. So here, it smaller. Here I can make it larger, so maybe I could also adjust the position. Now, if you you can also just move it with your mouse. In the we have this icon. This allows you to transform. little handles around my image. I can now move place it right at about there, so it's right I can turn this off and that'll now lock it to how this looks. The Kevin Cookie Company. Oh, like that. I'd rather have it fade in. Luckily, you'll notice these white icons in both top on that and drag it over, and look at that. That's Kevin Cookie Company, you'll see that it gradually other type of clip as well. You can have a video audio file if you want audio to fade in or out, apply it to the logo, so I'll only use the fade Bringing joy one cookie at a time. Oh, that's a a cookie and then me appearing with a cookie. insert a transition, in the top left-hand corner, let's click on effects. This opens up all of called video transitions. When I click on this, we could insert into this project. I'll move the hover over any one of these transitions and I can there I could go through and look at all cheesy. I don't think I'd want to use them. this cross dissolve is a little more classy. So, drag it down to my timeline and let me place it a cookie. Now let's play it back to see what this Now let's zoom in a little bit. I'll press alt and And over here I can click on the transition and could adjust all the different properties of the in and out. Let's select that and let's play it. transition. Do I want it to be quicker or do I a time. Let's make it a little bit longer. I like that calls out our website at the end. Let's pull we can see more space above all the video tracks. also within effects, let's click into titles. options and here you could hover over and you And you have lots of different text options with options. Now I just want to insert some basic I'll click on text plus and then I can drag it everything else. So, I'll trim the end of the make sure that everything is ending at the same in the top right-hand corner, you'll now see all you can click on the inspector to open it up, Currently, it just says custom title, but I Company. So over here, I'll type in our website this text plus object that I inserted, I have like. For example, I could adjust things like the make it a little bit smaller. I can also adjust the layout tab and let's try moving it down. Maybe click into the shading and let's click on number so it's a little bit easier to see this text. Now the text to look exactly what you would like it to play back to see how this looks. The Kevin Cookie when the logo comes in, and I'd also like the text same icon and here I can adjust it, so now they'll Company. Bringing joy one cookie at a time. see the entire timeline. And in the top left-hand us a little bit more screen real estate to work back to the beginning of the timeline and let's very first clip on the timeline, I think it would milk and those cookies. So, let's select this clip we have the inspector. If you don't see it, simply different properties. Let's add a slight zoom. called key frames. Right over here, I see the which is just the default zoom. Over here, I the position at this specific point in time. On my go back one frame, so I'm at the very end of this too is currently one, but I can now set another be at this point in time. So over here, I'll click now if I go to the very beginning of the timeline, zoom. Craving something sweet. Let the Kevin, I has come together really nicely and I'm ready to let's click on the page titled deliver. On the different settings for exporting or rendering you could also scroll over and you could also different services. I want to export to YouTube, to get my file name. I'll type in the Kevin Cookie resolution, the frame rate, the format, but all I can now add it to my render queue. And when have my render queue. To start rendering my video I'll click on render all. Right up above, it's five seconds to render it. That was really fast. I could watch it. Let's have a quick look. Craving your day delicious from our classic chocolate chip made with love and baked to perfection. We use the best bite every time. So why wait? Treat Cookie Company cookies. Order now and taste the Bringing joy one cookie at a time. Great job. You Of course, there's always more to learn. In fact, single day. Let me know down in the comments what watch more videos like this one, please consider