All right. So the project right here is and we are at the stage What did you say this is? 44' x 30' You have these cones 80 feet apart. Yeah. 60 feet. Okay. Ten feet towards me. Come this way. I mean, it your building Kyle: No, I want your opinion. All right. There's 44. Well, that's an issue like, 15 feet right here, I mean, jeez, Would like to angle it so it's facing this way, You don't want to mess Correct. Okay. So that corner, That's probably even past where it can go. That's further than you wanted it right? All right. That's come out quite a bit. Just squaring it up right now. Masons are here. This is the corner of the building. Lets go a foot. That's Here. Kyle: Do you want to mark the line? Yeah, this is where we are digging 3 foot mark Am I hitting a pipe or something? There's a big rock here. The mason said he can screw into bedrock He said if he has to go as deep as you can and he will tie into the bedrock, Tilt the stick. We're getting there Yeah, we're close Hitting bed rock down poured, but now it's not so We realized that we need to be a lot deeper here because this would be sticking up If we went with this grade Lets dig this at least the foot deeper, we are kind of hitting bedrock though {On phone ordering gravel} "As much as they can drop, we are going to need like 10 loads" All right. Here we are an hour or so later. They got all the concrete in. So this is going to be a three bay garage. That's why it's like this. How does that look with that string? Nice and perfect. That's good. All right, so now we get the footing drains in, All right, so he got the wall all stripped, the gravel going in. Okay, so that's for the electric? Well, you're missing one. Yeah, I'm only doing two. What you should do Where is the communication conduit? Kyle: figure run them in the same thing. No, can't. Well, guess I'm not having communication Okay. I mean, there is your water that's going to be down deep. That's good. That can be electric Yep Stone level is 18 inches below the height of the top of the wall I'll fill that in. Yeah. And that way, it can't fall into that hole. So I got to go 18 inches now. Right. So walls are going to be a foot. Six inches of cement, right? Yes. Six inch thick floor and 12 inches of wall showing So that's 18 inches So I got to go So that is the height of the stone All right. Let's see if we need to actually Yeah, Yeah, right. That's high There is the level So just make the same marks That way and it'll be perfectly square. I have not used this much But that's another, it's a magnetic laser level receiver lift it up, you are low. Yeah, it's about perfect. Still a hair low Throw that dirt out and rake the gravel We're right on it here. Okay. That way we know we're perfectly square. Yeah. Don't touch the building there, though. You got to hover right over it. Yeah. Looks like it needs to go this way. Like a quarter inch. now it's got to move a half inch. It's probably right on. Let's check with the string. All right. And with those footings in, All right. So let's come and check it out. Once they do that. Not enough? Driver: it might be enough That's all that's in there? Driver: Yeah, the one side of that first pad was pretty deep, probably threw you off. Yeah. Kyle: What do you think? Can we mix bags in the truck or is that stupid? I have a pallet right there No? ok I have them Kyle: Yeah I guess so I kind of screwed up I was pouring that, and this was I got this pallet here. I mean, these are kind of old, but Man, they feel hard as a rock They should be all right. They are old, but they will be fine Can we get some water? Hold on. Under that. That. Yeah, There you go yeah. Its all out Lets clean that out now, bring it over by the hose What should I do? You want a broom finished Yeah. Do that first Like this? I tried to leave a hump in the middle. Yeah. So water drains off nothin, Make sure when you buy battery charger, That's a smart charger unless they sense voltage, It's got a spark Two 12 volt batteries hooked in series Let that run a few hours. These dogs just ran away again. But I got to say, I don't like how bulky it is, but it he's been wearing this one Cody, let me see your colar. I had that one first and I liked how small that was, It didn't work. Why do you guys The end of the day, hours later, Need more stone on the whole thing. Should it go like this? two days later. Still soft They're all about the same length What do you think Andrew, swing it? Put it where it needs to be What? Yeah, exactly. Don't put your feet under it We got to come this way. We're going sideways right? Okay, keep coming. Want it turned that way? Yeah, set it down got to come further right about there Yeah. Which way? The slab is high here Good. I think you can pull that out by hand. I'd say that went excellent. Yes, it did. Have we seen Cody in a while? Cody was just here, Doing a little bit of grading right here, these garage doors, there's, that would be easy to tip over a vehicle. So we're trying to fix that Going to need a bunch more. all right, Here we are a few months later, and this is the finished, And. Yeah, that looks awesome. That is a really nice, brand new building. High 12 foot garage doors, And that upstairs can be built right here. He's working on putting the electric in. That's all buried up to the street. All right, well, this is all done, And I want to mention new merch real quick. I may shut that merch store down, too. So if you want something, So that's new. This one I like. with the grader on it That's cool. So if you want one of these