Where are the things you took from Harbin ? Who are you? Tell me quickly . I asked you where you are hiding. I do n't understand what you are talking about. I don't want to listen to more of your nonsense. If you want to survive, tell me where you are hiding . I don't know what you are talking about . So Xiaoxue hid in the closet. Through the crack in the door , he saw the whole process of these people torturing his father. These people were rummaging through the cabinets and seemed to be looking for something important. They found it. Are you sure? I am sure that day Chen Haruyuki saw four faces and four faces of enemies. Chen Chunxue knew that the burning hatred would accompany him throughout his life. Until the fire burns the faces of his enemies to ashes, you will blame me. It won't be fun if I'm drunk. Hehe. That's what you said. Hahaha, don't touch anyone. Whatever you want to do, the money is here. You take it . Qin Leiran, you are too brave. There are guards everywhere. Don't you just want money? Take all the money. Forget it. Forget it, I promise not to call the police. This face should look familiar. Ten years ago, Professor Chen's Yan family was murdered at No. 15 , Xuhui Road . You are that person's daughter. Remember me ? I 'm just a guide. I didn't kill anyone. Why ? My father is a doctor. Why did you harm him? I don't know. I was following orders. I didn't kill anyone. Shut up . Don't kill me. I'll tell you everything. I'll tell you everything. I'm listening. It was Liang Jie who found me. I really don't know why. Who is Liang Jie? He was working for the Japanese. At that time, he gave me your father's name and asked me to find you. He brought those two people here. I don't know. I 've never seen him before. Where can I find them? He wants to explain the experience of Dongxia Bookstore. Maybe he should know the identities of those two people. Those two people should have different backgrounds than him. Liang Jie's address is No. 6, Japanese Navy Apartment, Hongkou Road. Hehe. Sir, I'm coming in. Xiaoxue, what should he do ? Wait a minute . There is also the one named Bai. I hope they are ready. You can wait for me on the street in front of you in a moment. Hey, what are you doing, Director ? I know I'm here. Apart from Lao Mi, you are the only one . Your Japanese friend is already downstairs, Lao Jiao. You are the traitor , the director of the department . I am the ending . Uh - huh . Hurry up and hurry up. There are too many guests today. Come on, come on. I'll show you around. What do you think of this? Hahaha. Do you like the scenery here? Seeing this is like being in Japan. Hahahaha. Let's go. Hey, come on, come on . It's sunny. Hello , sir . Brother Qing , you will sit at the table with me in a moment. You can take a good look at the banquet before it starts . There are many ancient Chinese good things here. I went to the door to pick you up. You can take a look at it . There's still a while to eat. You guys are wandering around. Okay, okay, okay, the banquet has started. You bring the wine first and start serving the food. Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up , hurry up, hey, hey, don't use your brain , put this wine in this pot. It's so convenient to pour it in. Come on, come on. Don't pour out the rest of the wine. Put it on the fire to warm it up so it doesn't get cold. Come on, be careful. Let's go. The Takahashi banquet has begun. Mr. Consul has already started to toast. Hurry up, okay? To be polite , I bring up this fourth glass of wine for General Anan Weixi of the 11th Army of the Imperial Army who fought bloody battles on the Changsha battlefield. Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li, Mr. Li is poisoned . Mr. Li The cool and awakening person is a hydrogen compound. The referee didn't even move. He probably wasn't stepping on thunder but was drinking wine . Hey , Xiaowu, let's go to the toilet. Go, go, go . Hey, the bad ass grinds less and urinates more. I know it's him. Go to the kitchen, kitchen, kitchen, go to the kitchen . Stop, who is not here? Tell me who is not here. Zhang Changyou , Zhang Changyou , went to the bathroom with me . Zheng Chengyou, stop What did we find out? According to the neighbors, Zhan Changyou's wife went out to buy groceries last night. He should have escaped with his wife and children at night. There is no other information available. Captain Fujino, we should block this line. I will prepare a manuscript for the alley and ask you to let Shanghai Radio broadcast it to the whole city. What do you mean? If Sha Langhua doesn't come out and surrender for one day , I will block this alley all the time. No people are allowed to come in and no food is allowed to enter. There are 21 households in this alley with more than 100 people . You Have you thought about it? That's why I'm doing this. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Get out of the car. Move faster. Hey, hey . Hey , I heard no move. Move faster . Move quickly, there are a lot of Japanese in front, right? Back up, this place is blocked . What kind of guards do you need to back up? Go home, go home, go home, go home , ah ah ah, run , hahahahahaha, come today, we are going to celebrate. I have booked a room in Huangpu Building. You all need to have a good rest. Tonight we are going to party all night long. Oh hahaha. Celebrating. Of course we have been nervous for several days. Now we are finally relaxed. Of course we have to celebrate the joy of our victory. Uh-huh. Haha. It's not the time to celebrate. What's wrong? Now it's not just Shanghai who knows that we kill the waves to kill the Japanese. Even Chongqing and Hong Kong know what we have done. If this is not considered a success, then what is a success? There is death on the battlefield . Well, this time, he took the first step, but maybe it will be my turn tomorrow. Because we will die. We have to seize the moment and live every day. He died because of us . He didn't have to die. Sister, why are you always having trouble with yourself? Even if it wasn't him, we would have found another person to replace him. Did he die because of us? What's different ? And things have already happened. What's the meaning of your regrets and memories? If you really have the time , why not think about what to wear and eat tonight? I can't do it. As soon as I close my eyes , he is asking me. Why is it me? Why is it me? Okay , sister, you are the most rational person among us. Every time, it is because of your rationality that we escape from difficulties. But what happened this time? It was obviously a day of great success. Why didn't any of you? Happy, no, we are not unhappy, we just want to celebrate. I am not in that mood. I am really driven crazy by you. When the Japanese chased them out, he survived on purpose. He did it to protect us from the Japanese. He believed in us wholeheartedly. When we are protecting us, we are just using him, using his anger to blackmail him. What do you mean by saying this? We are not worthy of him. I believe our success this time is not Shao Langhua's success, but Zhan Changyou's success. The elder sister is accusing us. Me? But this time we did go too far. Shut up. Every one of you was there at that time. Don't you think it's an afterthought to say this now? So I think we should reflect on ourselves. What exactly is sand orchid? How should we make sand? What an orchid should be is what it is. I don't want to go out to celebrate. You can just use the words like this. Reflect on it. If you don't reflect on it, it 's too serious. This is the Shanghai Radio. This is the Shanghai Radio. Below is a special announcement from the Shanghai Police Department. Shanghai Police Department. Shanghai Japanese Military Police. A joint notice was issued to arrest the rioters responsible for the Japanese Consulate murder incident. The intersection of Difeng Road and Daxi Road to avoid unnecessary incidents. The rioters involved are urged to surrender to the police station so that the criminals can be exonerated . The area will be restored to normal as soon as possible and another report will be issued. The Shanghai Police Department and the Japanese Military Police in Shanghai jointly issued a notice to arrest and create information on the murder incident in the consulate. It will be closed indefinitely to avoid the wind and the chaos that intersects with the earth. Passing citizens are asked to detour to other sections to avoid necessary incidents . Urge people involved in the case to take revenge and surrender to the investigation office so that the area of the police station can return to normal as soon as possible. Back off. Back off. Back off . Back off . Move back . Get closer . Back off . Back off. Back off. Otherwise, we have to go back. Shots were fired . Hurry back. What should we do if we step back? I don't know what we are going to do now. I'm not afraid of death . You said if I turn myself in now, will they tear down the blockade? Don't say such stupid things again. Even if you are not afraid of death , you can't. It's so stupid, but what should the people inside this wall do? This is the stupidest threat. I don't believe the Japanese dare to continue like this. Now let's see who can hold back the most and who can last until the end. There are those who have nothing to do with us. They use those Only a fool would fall for such a trick when someone threatens us . The street has been completely blocked. What should we do next? Will Sha Lanhua surrender? They are not that stupid. They will not come out to die in vain. I know Chinese people very well if you give them benefits and they will be very happy. Accept it , but if you affect his interests, even brothers will become enemies. Sha Lanhua is the hero in their hearts, but this does not mean that they are willing to bear all the consequences of what Sha Lanhua has done. Just wait and see . Just block it . If someone in the district starves to death, Shalanhua will turn from a hero into a bear. The people will hate them to death, but our reputation has been completely ruined. From the day we came to China, our reputation has never existed. No matter what we do, in the eyes of the Chinese people We will always be the aggressors here. What we want is occupation and conquest, not acceptance and recognition of Fujino's army. Don't you think so? , ah ah ah ah, get out of the way, get out of the way , get out of the way, my child , your poor child, we didn't do anything , why are we locked up? My child, you give me back. My child, it's bad, my child, don't run, my child, don't run, my child, don't run, my child , don't run, let my child go, let me go, see, see. Resistance has caused disasters to innocent people who questioned the killing of wolves and tigers. I read the newspapers. Resistance has caused disasters to innocent people and questioned the killing of wolves and tigers. It is already the 5th day. Some people have been carried out. Children are the first ones who cannot bear it. I know. This is a trap. I can't stand it anymore . I'm going to surrender. The Japanese succeeded . Yes, they succeeded. But I know very well. I know what I should do now. I will never be as cold and cruel as you. I can't do it. I'm cold. Okay , now that you have decided, I will not stop you. I will kill more Japanese orbs for you. Why can't you say this? Xiaoxue is just a step ahead of us. Don't worry. If the Japanese are driven out one day, I'm gone but I'm still alive. I will kill you immediately. I went to Huangquan Road to find you. I will repay these debts with my life. Please use it slowly. I heard that Chinese chicks are top-notch . Hahahahaha. Look, this chick must be very lonely . Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Hahaha look at me hahahaha Miss can I buy you a drink? Go away . There is news from Chongqing that the Japanese stole an important document from the Department of Health. It is suspected that their intelligence officers will take this document to Shanghai. Lai Shangmei suspects that this document may be related to the germ warfare carried out by the Japanese army. The neighborhood committee asked us to pay attention to this matter and at the same time let us find out the contents of this document as soon as possible. Bacteriological warfare was used by the Japanese army in northern Jiangsu, Shandong and Hebei a few months ago. There was a bacterial bomb and we suffered heavy casualties in the concentrated base area. I understand. I will pay attention to it . You must also find a way to collect some medicines as soon as possible because the base area is in urgent need of medicines , especially cavalry. After the soldiers lose blood, the cavalry consumption is very fast. I understand, okay. Take care of yourself. I 'm leaving first. You should also take care of yourself. Hahaha, come and drink. Hey, look, you're about to succeed. Oh, it's so beautiful. Yes, it's so dangerous. Get out of here. It's unreasonable . Let me go. Let me go. Let me go. Why is no one taking care of me? Why is no one taking care of me ? You spineless people, let me go. Let me see how I can accept you . Let you bully me. I will let you bully me. Let's go. Let's go . Everything will be fine . I'll go now . Can I treat you to dinner? To express my gratitude , I think I should say this to you . You can also just eat . Haha . Actually, you're welcome. These are all things I should do. Take care. Goodbye. Goodbye. What's the matter? You're back so early. It's okay . I met some blind Japanese bastards today. Oh, then I'm going to work first. Hey, Xiaomei, can you chat with me for a while? What's the matter? Come on . Well, there's a guy to help me today. He 's a pretty handsome man it looks like there are quite a lot of people . Look, how come it's like this ? Look , take your hands away . Look , it's my turn. It's your turn. It's your turn. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Let go. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Ryousuke knows that the effects of these drugs will soon wear off and he has no more in stock. He knows very well that if he can't get more drugs in time, he will be worse than dead when the next drug addiction attacks. He can't wait any longer, but Liang Jie doesn't want his drug abuse to enter the files of the gendarmerie , so he has to get rid of the ears and eyes outside. But how to get rid of it ? Clean up the room , rickshaw , go , go, go, follow, feed , here, here . Thank you. What's going on ? You can't go in. What are you doing ? It's too late. What do you mean? The shops here are open from the front and back . By the time you catch up, Liangjie is already two roads away. Hey, hey, hey, hey, get up and chase after you. How did you find this? It's not a problem for me. It's a bit messy . It doesn't matter. I've been to worse places. Stop talking nonsense. Is there any stock? It's there, but not much. It's just this amount. When will the stock come back ? Just live a while . I can't tell you. You have to know that these things are sold exclusively by Japanese in Shanghai. Oh, if I were caught like this, it would be drug trafficking. If you don't call it drug trafficking, then it depends on what you say. I think back to Boss Du Yuesheng. When I was here, we were all doing legitimate business. Don't hide it, brother, I still pay taxes to the country. Not bad. They all have telephones. Huh, the business needs it. I have to be willing to spend this little money. When the goods arrive, give me a call. How much does it cost this time? Not a question 22754 remembered No matter who answers the phone, just ask for the manager and say that the meal is ready. Well , what happened to a bunch of rice dumplings? I lost them. These idiots , after all, he is a member of the secret service. He doesn't know what is going on. He just comes back in such a arrogant manner. He made those bodyguards from the gendarmerie very angry. From the look on his face, he must have done it on purpose. If he didn't come out for a walk, how could we have a chance? But he kept shouting at us and we still had no chance . Oh, by the way. I found some of Sister Liang's precious things. They look weird. You guys can't tell what they are . I don't know if they are useful or not. They smell weird. Hmm . What is this ? I'll show Gao Bo. He is a veteran. Maybe he knows . Okay I 'll go back first, Xiaoxue. I'll let Xiangmei go tomorrow. You have a day off. Okay, sister, please help me bring a message to Baozhu. It was my fault that day . Yeah, yes, this is cocaine, a drug. Is this opium? No, it's not the same species. It turns out that there are more people in the British Concession because gentlemen generally don't like that such things are expensive and difficult to obtain. People who take drugs usually have regular drug dealers to supply them. In other words, if we can find out who is selling drugs, we can defraud them out of food. Can Jie Gaobo find out who is selling cocaine? He can try it in Shanghai. There are not many people who can do this. He should be able to find out. Lao Gao's guess is correct. The circle of selling cocaine in Shanghai does not rely on the contacts accumulated over the years. Lao Gao found a few people who knew about it and soon they helped him locate the drug dealer's residence. How about Gao Bo, let's go. I finally found this person . Do n't shoot. Don't shoot. Let me do anything. Ah, get up , ah , ah, what are you doing? You don't have eyes. Sorry, sorry, sorry. I tripped and did n't touch the car . Sorry, I didn't touch the car. Let's go. Hey, hey, hey, who are you looking for ? Mr. Liang, please give me your phone number. It's Liang Jin's calculation. I know where it is. The brick kiln next to Shiliupu Pier. Why is the brick kiln there? I have something to do here and I can't leave for a while. I know. I'll come right away. Mr. Liang, you went out to the rickshaw again. Hey, Mr. Ren. I'll drive you, Mr. Liu, get in the car , hurry up , don't move , raise your hands , hey, hey, hey, hey , why are you so careless? I didn't expect that this drug addict is quite strong. What's this for ? Sweating a lot can speed up the onset of his drug addiction. What's wrong, it's not suitable here. Who are you? What do you want? Stop talking nonsense and let me go . What's going on? I found out that Liang Jian was taking drugs and he's missing now. Didn't you send someone to protect him? You should bring this to the people Liang Jian gave me. There is so much trouble. How can you be sure that he will take drugs? My men found these in his house. I have heard about some of the working methods of General Tu Peiyuan. It seems that this special method is used to control Chinese intelligence agents . Rumors: How long has he been missing? It's been 3 hours. I want water too. I want water too. Hey, I want water. Please give me some. Marshmallows. Marshmallows are surrounded there. Ah, would-be gunmen. Coins. See that. Did you see the window? Stop on top. This is an eggshell found at the scene , but it has been compared with the traces. It can be determined that the same gun was used in the assassination of Captain Takeuchi. This further confirms that Xia Baozhu from the beautiful clothing store is related to the murderer who went on the rampage recently. But this time The failure of the arrest mission caused us to lose the clues to Xia Baozhu and the opportunity to solve the case. I am asking for punishment. It is not the time to hold people accountable. What I want is to catch the murderer. The investigation on the use of weapons has already produced results, as you said. I found some clues in the criminal cases at the police station. These are 9 cases of long-range shooting with rifles. I heard that the method used was two shots to the heart, which is exactly the same as what Captain Takeuchi predicted. There are also 5 cases of assassination at close range. The assassination method in this case was also two shots to the heart. It was exactly the same as the one used by Tian Peiran of the Hongkou Club. I can conclude that this was the work of a professional killer. Call in the people who investigated these cases. I want to know more about the situation, sir. The road is closed. Go down and see what's going on. You can't pass here . Please leave here . The road ahead is blocked. The patrol is working on a case. Let's take a detour. Hey, what's wrong , Lao Gao ? Isn't that clothing store nearby ? Turn right ahead of the intersection. It's that clothing store. Could it be Xiaoxue and the others? Could it be Xiaoxue and the others? Something happened, right? You're soft-hearted . This is completely different from being soft-hearted. Why should we kill him? If he reported me to the Japanese, why haven't the Japanese come to me yet? That's because they don't know that you live here. Dad Zhang Xinqiao regrets his tough attitude towards Xiaoxue yesterday. If Xiaoxue has an accident because of assassinating the woman in the clothing store, she will not be able to forgive herself. Gao Bo, Xiao Hei, Xiao Xu, Gao Bo, Zhang Xinqiao's His heart fell to the ground. At this moment, he understands that nothing is more important than his daughter's safety. Dad , I'm sorry, I still couldn't make a move. It's your choice. I respect your choice . I'm really sorry. It doesn't matter. I'm happy to see my persistence. This is good. It's really good that this guy knows where you are, otherwise why would he show up in time? He is very good at shooting and can use a gun to clear the way for you. This person is really extraordinary. Sister, do you still remember the female killer I mentioned to you last time? Is she the one who always changes her mind ? I think it's him . Why? I think we are very similar in appearance, or psychologically. Anyway, if you are in such danger, I will definitely do the same, so I think he will be too. It's a pity that I have never met him. I have a feeling that we will meet again . It's Lao Jiang. He has been doing file management work in the police station. He knows these cases very well. Please sit down. Don't be nervous. Logically speaking, you should be my senior. We are all doing police work. I asked you to come today. I am in trouble and need your help . I understand, I understand. Please tell me, senior, about the circumstances of those cases. The one I remember most clearly is the case in the 21st year of the Republic of China. It was the murder of Fang Hanliang, the director of the Concession Publication Bureau. The murderer used it. Even that kind of Soviet rifle can shoot at long range. Hey, this Fang Hanliang was leaning towards Japan in the Shanghai War just now. So after the armistice agreement was signed, many people called him Han Qian. It doesn't matter. You went on to say that our police station didn't have it at that time. After finding any favorable clues, under pressure, the person in charge of the investigation team at that time found Mr. Du Yuesheng. Only then did he learn that there was an underground gangster organization in Shanghai called Tian Gong Tang. The assassin of Fang Hanliang came from Tiangong Tang . Have you arrived at Tiangongtang? At that time, we only found the name of the leader of Tiangongtang. When we were about to conduct an in-depth investigation, we received an order from our superiors to give up the investigation. Why did our subordinates speculate that the assassination might have been done by Fuxing Club to Tiangongtang? The Fuxing Society back then is now the Military Tong , so those cases were dropped . Can you please tell me the name of the leader of the Tiangong Hall ? His name is Wang Yilan. His public identity back then was from the Shiliupu Wharf Trade Union. The director is very good . But as far as I know, this person named Wang Yilan died a few years ago. I already know this. I don't know the rest. Oh, the second master is here. Please come in . What should I do with my affairs? I can't delay Bai Jingwen's affairs any longer. You have to wait for the opportunity. Don't be anxious . We failed to kill him last time when we invited him to the Hongkou Club. We are still in a lot of trouble. If we can't survive this time, I may not even be able to save my life. Second brother, why are you in such a hurry to kill Bai Xinwen? Brother , a month ago, I accepted a business order from Bai Xinwen, asking me to transport two ships of goods from Nanyang to Nanjing. But who knew that the New Fourth Army and the Japanese opened fire and sank the ship halfway. I wanted to compensate him some. Forget the deposit , but this guy falsely accused me of embezzling his goods. He also asked the Japanese to pressure me and said that if I didn't hand over the goods, I would be held accountable for the smuggling. This Bai Xinwen is the director of Shengchang Yangxing, but Shengchang Yangxing has Germany. I know that the Germans and the Japanese are allies now. If they use the Japanese to suppress me, they will kill me. Oh, by the way, two people died in the Hongkou Club that day, right ? Erye , you also know. Master, you won't let me know anything, haha , yes, that's good, I'll leave first. Hey, second master, please walk slowly , okay . I don't know what this man's birthday is with your second uncle, and I don't want to know. Anyway, he is a traitor and he will die from now on. I do n't know what you want to do if you don't do this. I've never thought about why you're asking. I've been with you for a long time and I can't imagine what you'd be like if you didn't have a gun. I don't know what I'll be like in the future. Well , what do you want to do? Like literacy. Why do you know so many more words than me? I haven't gone to school much since my parents passed away, but my parents are both educated people , so I believe they also want me to He's a person who can read, right? What that means is that it's not easy for me to leave my identity like this. There will be action tonight . Your place is no longer safe, so you must evacuate to Subei District in time. Okay, what do you want to do? You can clean it up quickly. After you drop off your things, I will send someone to wait for you at the door at 7 o'clock tonight to discuss the specific matter. Let's talk about it . I will send someone to wait for you at the door at 7 o'clock tonight. Why are you drawing the curtains in broad daylight ? Wow, he came out. What should I do? ? Okay, I understand. Okay, I'll hang up. Remember Turn left before parking and turn off the lights. Hahahahaha . Well, it's 9 o'clock. Wait until the mission fails. Xiaoxu was captured. According to Xiaohei , it's not an ordinary person. It's not sure whether it was done by the Japanese. Lao Gao , go to the hotel and find the second master. Only he can know who captured Xiaoxue. Okay, I'll go right away. Master, what's going on? The ship in the net didn't go to Nanjing at all . The shipment arrived last week. Our comrades at the dock in Shanghai have found out that this batch of goods was privately detained by Wang Zili. Why did he do this? People from Chongqing have already been to the dock to see this batch of goods. From Chongqing, are you saying that Wang Zili is doing business with the Kuomintang? He thought it was right to have two families for one woman. You have to know that this is a wartime situation. Medicines are in short supply and the price changes every day. I think Wang Zili felt that he was losing money by selling it to you, so he found another buyer. No wonder he didn't show up at the Hongkou Club last time. He didn't dare to show up . Now that he has bullied us, let's stop being polite . What are you going to do? Take him back and grab him. Yes, the base is in urgent need of this batch of medicines. We have no time. Our comrades are tonight. It's time to take action, so you have to leave Shanghai tonight. The car to take you away is already ready outside. I'll arrange it for you. This is a list of some urgent supplies. You can keep it for later. It will definitely be useful . By the way , the one who is following me. Who is this woman? It 's not clear right now. It might be related to Wang Zili. Just go away. I'll handle these things. OK, don't touch him . Who is he ? Who are you? Why did you kill Mr. Bai ? Prince's brother sent you here. I understand , it was Wang Zili who hired you. No one came here . Bai Qingwen is a traitor . If you are a traitor, you should die as a traitor. You said Bai Qingwen is a traitor ? Who told you that it was Wang Zili? Little girl, I don't know how much Wang Zili paid to hire you. You did these things , but I can clearly tell you that Wang Zili deceived you. Bai Qingwen is one of ours. He is not a traitor . Who are you ? I don't need to tell you this, but we and traitors are incompatible. I don't know how Wang Zili made it up. Story , but I can tell you the truth. Mr. Bai made a deal with Wang Zili on our behalf and purchased a batch of medicines that were urgently needed on the front line through him . However, Wang Zili swallowed the goods privately and resold them to others at a high price. He hired You just paid for the murder. He thought that by killing Mr. Bai, he could swallow up the large deposit we paid in advance. Why should I believe you like this ? Do you think I need to lie to you? Wang Zili wants to enrich the country. I believe you. I have the ability to investigate these things clearly. I don't want to interfere with your affairs, but before I let you go, I still want to give you some advice. We are all Chinese. If you are angry, it is better to spend it on resisting the Japanese invaders. Such a confused self Is it fun to kill each other? Next time if we can't distinguish between right and wrong, we will never show mercy. You have to let me go. As long as you don't resist , I can take you outside now. I won't resist . Ah Liang, please put his things in his bag. Now that you are free , you were let go so easily. Chen Chunxue can't believe it.