First Game Duan Xiaoxing of Canglong Sect fought against Ma Qiang of Badamen. chaos Don't think you can win by using unconventional means. I want to win I'm the Blue Dragon Fist good I will use the Blue Dragon Fist ah Ahhhh Ahhhh Won Applause please? good The first match was held with Canglong Sect's Duan Xiaoxing good Next up is the offense. Interprets Lian Kang's Wu Ma Hao against Shan Yue Tai Chi good What's gonna happen will always happen go Master Duan Beat him to death Wu Ma deserved to die for his oath of revenge Beat him to death. Beat him to death. Beat him to death He beat him to death, he beat him to death Hit him he Hit him Hit him It was you who killed Master Guan. of Zigui, are you okay? I'm not feeling well Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa I'm sorry, Big Brother. careful I won't hold back this time. Ahhh ah Yeah yeah ah Yeah Big Brother Now the victory is decided A little star takes the position of leader No one should have any objection anymore. Hey, don't go. Red Spirit is my person No one is allowed to touch Ahhhh ah ah ah ah Yeah ah Yeah yeah Why are you wearing gloves? This way the two of them can't be separated too far It's exciting to have close combat ah ah ah ah Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh Yeah Master, how does the village look today? A big bet Block the spear Ahhhhh ah Ahhh Ahhh ah Ahhhhhhhhh ah ah Ahhhhhhh Ahhhhh ah Good, good, good well Strong and clear Strong and determined Among so many disciples Ma Qiang's Kung Fu is the most solid The strongest foundation Um Ma Qiang has been here since he was 10 years old. Has been with us for many years Over the years He has always been so diligent Never let yourself slack off Pass ah ah Yeah yeah Hey, big brother, your kung fu is getting better and better Thank you for your hard work. It is also said that music is one of the six arts. Don't underestimate it. Oh, what you said makes so much sense. I was wrong about you. I should reward you, right? Stand still Dad, have a cup of tea to calm down. Yeah Five Horses Panax notoginseng Yeah hey yeah Yeah yeah yeah yeah Yeah Yeah yeah yeah Huang is also practicing Tai Chi now. Tai Chi has a long history There are many branches in different places. I see his posture Although it has the same origin as Guan Shanyue's Tai Chi But different streams Wow Official Start ah no Yeah ah Wet in my finances Water Pearl Cave To be like that place Like the defendant Don't Pity Sad Shake your brain and clear it up Know how to use your strength Master, Senior Brother Brother, Brother, Dad, Brother, Dad 4th Floor Master Ziwu Horse I'm going to kill you You see None of my business I didn't kill your father. master Master What happened I'll kill your master right now. Yeah ah ah ah Ah yeah yeah yeah Yeah Yeah yeah yeah ah Yeah ah ah Ahhhh Ahhhhhhh Ahhhhh raise up Ahhhh Ahhhhh Let's go Master, get in the car quickly! Get in the car quick Kill them Help! Help! Help, Magic! ah Help! Ahhh Let him go Uma Save me It's you Hey Jump Left Four open I asked you to save him Not to harm him He wants to eliminate the demons in his heart You must die once. Reckless Fast Letting go Letting go When is the opportunity rare? If you feel you still owe your master something, just let go. If you fall down, you will give your life back to him. But if you want to repay your master's kindness I don't want to sacrifice in vain Just grab the liver and climb up Be a good person This is going to destroy the museum. ah Why Give me a try Is this kid trying to hit me with his soft strength? No no Don't fight, don't fight Don't hit or smash things. Beat hard Hey Don't hit my son. Don't hit my son. oops no Don't hit my son. No. Oops. Help, police, help! Hey, don't hit me. Ahhhhh Ahhh, how are you? What happened? They come to make trouble Master, hahahaha Good Year How did he offend you? He didn't offend me. You offended me I Because your joining the Huamu Club is a disgrace to the martial arts community. I won't let you have an easy time We are leaving Get him for me yes Stop Li Peng Stop! Stop! Li Peng left the building. stop Stop and don't run The person is missing Go find it over there. We are looking here ah Ahhh Ahhh Ahhhh He stole his master He is here ah The master ran away Uma ah Call Ning Tie out Wu Ma, what do you want to do? Hand over Ning Tian Burn down your house It's already cheap for you Dare to go against the Ning family Whoever catches him will be rewarded handsomely. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah Yeah yeah Yeah ah ah Ahhhhh Ahhhh Ahhh ah Ha ha ha ha Boy, you're tired of living. Beat me to death Yeah ah ah