I have made countless videos about old computers to have a look at the processor that powered at the end of the video we're going to have original creators of the 6502 microprocessor for the first time ever, arcade consoles. There was one microprocessor that seemingly powered an entire generation. And I want to start with the standard 6502. There more or less compatible, but might not to those later. So, let's start by having a look standard 6502. These would be the Commodore PET, the Atari 400 and 800 home computers, the Oric and Electron series, and of course the BBC micro. used the 6502, more than I want to cover here. Missile Command, Tempest, crystal castles, or you've probably played some All of these systems used a standard 6502 you can take the CPU out of say a VIC-20, such as an Apple II, and it will just work. disk drive and stick it in an Atari 400, and it of all of these different incompatible However, the scope of the 6502 reaches at the variants, the list becomes huge. are other versions of the 6502 that have either removed features in order to make the chip either code as the original, but they aren't necessarily of one type of machine and then stick it in a Computers that used variants would be the Apple used variants in the Apple III and IIgs. computers, and even inside their disk drives. in game consoles. This would include the Atari importantly Nintendo used a variant in the NES, as But what might surprise you would be some of processors. Ever played with a Furby, yeah, those those run on a 6502. In fact, there are countless hard to catalog for you because they are usually really hard to tell just by opening up a toy. a pacemaker or any sort of implanted technology inside. There are even 6502 processors and I believe they were used in few minor space station, although I don't know if And apparently the terminators of the future screen is 6502 assembly instructions, then a thousand years from now, robots like The point is, unless you have been living under has at some point interacted with this processor. to 1975. Many notable things were happening. music was at its peak. The Rubiks cube went the Vietnam war was coming to an end. Oh, But in the world of technolgy, there were year. Video Cassette Recorders for home users kit was introduced. A little software company more importantly for the purposes of this For the first year, it was being sold for $25 nearest competitor, the Motorola 6800, which being used in hobby and enginering projects Wozniak's little computer, the Apple 1. mostly remembered for the debut of the Star Wars off. Computers like the Apple II and Commodore computers of that year used the 6502. But the but from the Atari 2600 video game console. 2600 in 1977 alone, and eventually over 30 Needless to say, this was just the tip of the features of this chip, and see how it worked. communicates with other chips. 8 of the pins on can be either on or off, which represent a 1 or for illustration we'll connect this to the the RAM chip can send and receive 8-bit numbers. controls. This is the read/write line. If the data is expected to travel this direction. the data will travel in this direction instead. chip so both the CPU and the RAM chip understand OK, hopefully all of this makes sense so far. Of more complicated than this, because there will etc. And they all connect to the same data bus. the same data bus at the same time without they don't. They are all allowed to listen bus when the CPU wants to talk to them. So how a CS line. It stands for Chip Select. Sometimes it does the same thing. When this line is to talk on the bus. That chip could be a RAM So the next question is, what determines when and the read/write line. But we also which on the 6502 is 16 bits. So, while the data the address bus can represent numbers between 0 Kilobytes. The size of the address bus determins banking schemes, which we can get into later. when they increase to the next size, are always of two. Well, the reason for that has to do with that is 16 megabytes in size. It would need 24 RAM. And that means a minimum address of zero, or if you wanted to make the chip bigger, there's You would have to add an additional address number to your binary number, which will always So, back to our CPU address bus. The way this which I'm not going to get into here, determine which of the chips will be selected, Now, much of what I've shown here could be applied things that sets the 6502 apart. So, let's compare was quite common for 6502 systems to run at you might be tempted to think the Z80 would Well, for one thing let's look at the clock pulse. would only be doing work at the top of the clock on the bottom of the clock pulse like this, cycle than a typical CPU. But that isn't the only require more than one clock pulse to complete and other CPUs of the era to complete an instruction. despite being an 8-bit CPU, it's ALU, or and thus most calculations require extra So, let's compare 4 common CPUs from the 1980s look at raw performance, the 6502 actually at its much lower clock speed of 1 Mhz. it suddenly outperforms just about everything but there were some that ran just a bit faster. Basically all subsequent Atari computers interestingly enough, the original Apple III ran even faster at 1.8 Mhz as did the Commodore 128, The Apple IIgs ran at 2.8 Mhz And the fastest machines from the time period clones like Laser 128 ex2, which ran at 4 but that was some serious speed. unfortunaetly, advantage of that. So the best examples we time would be to look at the Super Nintendo. aspects of these games you can really credit co-processors that were also in the system. In a 3D coprocessor located in the cartridge itself. at since it had much less in terms of graphics for most of the work. of course, another IIgs are technically running 65816 CPUs, which we're going to come back to here in a little is Wolfenstein 3D. This is the SNES version. acceleration on the SNES, the CPU is really Now let's look at the Apple IIgs version. It uses accelerated graphics features. That's why the even though technically the level of detail you may notice it runs a little slower, which is slower. But now check this out. This is the accellerator in it. So, same type of processor, with this CPU you can expand the rest of the Modern versions of the 6502, made by and I've heard of people overclocking them to run thus might be a good example of what can be done. wrote for the Commander X16, is a somewhat it runs just about perfectly, even if I jumper the working on a port for the Super Nintendo which you more of this in a later episode, but I think A better example might be the KG3D demo on 8-bit 6502 at 8 mhz. As you can see, this 3D for those that grew up with IBM PCs, imagine at 8 mhz. It's just not going to happen. And megahertz isn't a good method for comparing Let's switch gears for a moment and talk about a lot of people might ask the question, &quot;if the numbers from 0 to 255 how can it possibly do Imagine you have two 16-bit numbers you need to So, as a programmer you'll need to add the least adding these two values exceeds 255, so that will over here will take that into account and So really, the only downside to working with does require more instructions, which makes performing the same operation on, say a 16bit interesting is the 6502 actually has no I'm sure you've guessed, there is a way to The easiest way to multiply is with bit shifting. bits to the left or right. So, take this binary shift everything to the left by one bit, then you do it again, and now you've multiplied by 4, and you can shift a number to the right, and you can even divide by 16. So, multiplying or dividing But let's take the original number and let's say power of 2, such as the number 6. Well, you can that gets you multiply by 4. Then you take to the left, that multiplies by 2, and then your result. This method is also fairly fast. using a chart. You just store all of the results you need to multiply 5 times 9, you can just look So, you might think these methods are overly interesting anecdote for you. When I started first I was really excited that I finally had use one of the things I realized once I started trying shifts or lookup tables was actually significantly commands. So, I ended up actually stripping and replacing them with the same techniques it turns out um those multiply and divide Let's take a look at how the regular 6502 compares processor known as the 6507, which as you can like to draw your attention to the address bus. instead of 0 through 15. That reduces the instead of the usual 64. That is also why Atari unless clever banking schemes are used. called the Sally chip. This chip was used in and game consoles like the 7800. It's basically here are re-arranged. The main reason for this that the CPU could temporarily be halted Now let's look at the 6510, which was used in the is in a different place. But the main difference general purpose IO pins. In the Commodore 64 they a cost saving measure to add this into the CPU OK, so I'm not going to cover every variant on Wikipedia a list of all of the variations idea of the ways in which most of them differ. Design Center 65c02. This launched in 1983 and still in production today. This CPU was used in Lynx, among others. One of the big differences instruction set. There are some undocumented 65c02 added these new opcodes. Most of these are as well as make execution a little faster. Older making use of any of these new instructions. of people don't know about. This is an ordinary CPU. It's just a standard 6502, which is to be from Western Design Center. And what I'm going it on. And well, if you thought it was going The reason it doesn't work has nothing to do with If you compare the two processors, you'll see they only these 3 pins are different. I'm not going let's see if we can make this work up two of those pins that were different. and the other I'm going to use a resistor it doesn't look terribly elegant. But let's stick Check it out, it works. At this point the VIC-20 you wanted to write code to support it. And even only going to run at the clock speed the VIC-20 huge advantage to using this. I run a number of although I'm sure there's probably at least one opcodes that might fail with this CPU inside. chip debuted in 1985, and it is a significant sort of. You see, there's no standard way to judge it based on how wide the data-bus is. In the 6502. But internally, it can do 16-bit math. here are those opcodes we looked the 816 supports all of these opcodes. In fact, thus essentially operating exactly like the 65c02. of the keyboard warriors will want to point out. had these extra instructions here. I didn't show these, and they aren't used very often. But the adds all of these when operating in 16-bit mode. of requing 6 or 7 instructions to handle it can do the whole thing in a single speed up execution for certain types of software. is the larger address bus, let me show you how similar to the 6502, but it's a little bit more because as you can see there are now 9 pins that counting up the address lines and seeing that it access more than 64K, you might ask? Well, the data-bus pins will pull double they are data lines like usual. but when the through 23. Thus giving it a 24-bit address, massive amount more than a typical 8-bit computer. like a VIC-20? Well, sort of. You're going which are remarkably hard to find at the moment. or other 8-bit system and instantly have you won't have access to the extra RAM. actually show, is the Commander X16. By default the 816. I keep one around for testing and confused with my other CPUs. But yeah, the and in theory if people wanted to write code that I think the 816 was a really great processor, the Apple IIgs and the Super Nintendo. I finally man managed to sit down and one of the original creators of the 6502 and the So, Bill, tell me who are the current, modern-day interest in your world, meaning the hobby world. into that. And as you know, you and Ben Eater, world. And then we have some others, Stefany I to believe that just the retro market keeps the other modern customers. And the other thing that we keep millions of people alive one Why do you feel like the 6502 architecture didn't Apple IIgs and Super Nintendo? Is it just because or was there some other reason? Well, I my licensees asked what I was doing at 32-bit, 32 bit. I'm happy to share them with you. Well, if you've made it this far then you've probably ever wanted to know. But, hopefully at the significant role that the CPU has played favorite CPU. But, that's all I have for