Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. If you were driving in a car at the speed of light and you turned on your headlights what would happen? Would light be able to come out or would your headlights just stay dark? Or maybe, light would come out but it just pull up inside the headlight like a overflowing sink. Or maybe the light would come out but at speed plus the speed of your car. No, that doesn't sound right. None of these of course, there is no answer. A car cannot travel at the speed of light. Nothing that has mass can. But come on, you say, there are things Things that have no mass, like photons. Let's build a car out of light. Okay. Let's take that suggestion because imagining what it is like to be light, brings up a lot of questions about light, about why things are the way they are and about whether or not we are real. In order to see what I mean we need to The speed of light. It is Constant. As long as you aren't slow or in whatever direction you want and you will still always see light moving at light speed. Even when light appears to slow materials, the actual photons themselves are still They're just taking a longer path, which takes more time. This law always holds true relative to other things, your measurements of you change. When you move, everything not shortened in length and to be experiencing time more slowly. Whereas to everything else, it is you These changes really happen - just not we usually travel at. For example, while walking to your you will measure your fridge to be a 100 quadrillionth of a meter nearer and thinner than you You'll also notice that it experiences time more slowly than you. Each one of its seconds of a second longer than yours. But your fridge will measure that these transformations are These are small numbers, but at speeds these changes can be dramatic. As I to a particle racing toward Earth at the entire Earth would only appear to be 70 meters deep. Our whole planet. Now with all of this in mind, let's take a being used by a stationary ship and one that is moving at 99 percent the speed of light. The Near Light Speed Ship would be to us, while a stationary one would not. As their the light coming from both ships travels The speed of a lights' source doesn't The moving ships velocity does, however, in the direction it's headed, causing a from behind. What's really cool though is that this we would see, floating in space at rest The crew of the fast-moving ship gaining on them like we do, they would see it exactly Light beams rapidly fleeing their just as if they were moving at all. And is a light second. The distance light 299,792,458 meters. Now, after one of our seconds, sure enough, both beams will have traveled a light measures light speed to be the same as us. But how does that make sense? them yet. No problem. You see, what they is shorter than what we measure. And they wouldn't agree that a second has us time is slower for them. They count one at which point their light has, indeed, from them. Observers will often disagree about time and space, but those to make sure they agree on one thing. It is always the same for everyone. But what if you were travelling at the speed of light? Well, the only massless vehicle. So, fine, let's assume Such a vehicle would travel with light. Light would never even pull a tiny tiny bit ahead of it. No matter how short it thought a meter was. No matter how long It would never register light ever moving ahead of it. It would say that light was stationary. at the speed of light. Right? Not really. You see, at the speed of light there is nothing to see. Not because there's nothing to to do any seeing. As we have seen, as an object's velocity approaches &quot;C&quot;, time for everything around it approaches a standstill. An object traveling very very very very very very could travel for billions of our years before a single second past for it. But a massless vehicle, travelling at the speed of light, could travel forever before an instant even began for it. It experiences no time. And it would have no time to do anything. Certainly no time to turn on its headlights. The concept of time doesn't even really apply. A massless vehicle couldn't even before it hits &quot;C&quot;, because object with no must always travel at &quot;C&quot;. Such an object would never have a before. Its origin, its journey and its destination are simultaneous for it. A billion light year trip from a distant quasar might take a photon a billion years to us. But it literally takes no time for the photon. And to the photon, the is literally nothing. Photons are how we see. How we know anything and the energy they bring our planet from the Sun is responsible for nearly all life on Earth. But despite that list they don't think much of themselves. In fact, as far as they're concerned, they don't even exist. Outside observers, of course, see them and would measure them to be with nothing passing or gaining on them. at the speed of light, you'd have to be massless, like a photon, and you wouldn't notice anything, because to and no time to notice it. Other people and you would be unaware of yourself. You because you would feel exactly like you But why is the speed of light what it is? I mean, this is how far light travels in a second. Could it also travel this far, or this far, or this far? traveled that quickly? Yeah, easily. So then, why is it that the universe we live in is only one of these ways? Why are the laws of physics what they are? Instead of some other way they could be. Well, there are a lot of theories, but so test any of them, because we are stuck in this universe and don't yet know how to for experiments. But perhaps there is compels reality to be this way, and only this way. Or, perhaps, nothing compels it to be this there's a multiverse. Every single possible universe exists. Some of them collapsed some of them involve you watching this very video but Earth has two Suns. For those of you, in that universe what I just say because your Earth does have two Suns. would be a pretty elegant explanation. universes are born inside black holes. Universes whose physical laws are only that gave birth to it. In this way, universes could replicate Universes that are more fit for creating black holes would then have more baby universes, making universes that support black like maybe the one that we're in. And that's support black holes support Suns, and us. Or - and here's my favorite theory - maybe we're just living in a simulation. programmed it up. That sounds pretty sci-fi. Sure. But I like how Julian Baggini puts it in &quot;The Pig That Wants to Be Eaten&quot;. virtual reality could become good enough didn't know they were in a simulation, creating such simulations would be way easier than creating real that require an entire universe Well, then it's pretty easy to conclude that faked beings could be created than real ones. Say, 999 fake ones for every one real one. What's more likely? that are real, or that you are part the 99.9% who think they're real but aren't. Perhaps, we live in a simulation intelligent species. John Gribbin, however, points out one possible way to irrational numbers. Like the square root of 2 or Pi. These numbers don't end. I mean, they contain a never-ending, never repeating sequence of digits, which universe could fit in all of, say, Pi. So, if in our tireless pursuit of digits of Pi, we ever run into an endlessly repeating series or the end, that could be a pretty good sign that we live in a simulation. A universe that is not real. But so far we haven't found that and we So, thank you irrational numbers, for keeping it real. And as always, thanks for watching.