1st recipe: canning pork shoulder with vegetables! I will cut the meat into smaller pieces. 2 red onions. 2 carrots. 3 potatoes. I prepared the groceries, I need clean and washed jars. now I will prepare 3 different dishes at the same time! I make all 3 meals with meat, so I will put meat in each jar. my jars have a volume of 0.7 liters. I put potatoes in the first jar. I want to prepare potato stew from a jar. I add carrots. I add onions. a clove of garlic. the second dish is with peas. I add peas. onion. I add a carrot and a clove of garlic. the third meal is green beans with meat. I will add yellow and green beans. I will add onion, carrot and garlic clove. I add salt to each jar. pepper organic dry spice (spice without additives and nitrates, without flavor enhancers) sweet ground pepper. 1 tablespoon of vinegar 9% in each jar. you must not leave out the vinegar! botulism does not develop in an acidic environment!!! vinegar is a mandatory ingredient in preserving food using the water bath method! the acidity in the jar must be &lt;5 pH, if you don't have 9% vinegar, put 2 tablespoons of 5% vinegar and pour water into the jar. write me in the comments from which country are you watching me? from which city? it's nice to know that the whole world is watching! wipe the top of the jar with vinegar. I close with clean and new lids. I put the jars in a saucepan and pour water up to the height of the lid. when the water boils, I cook for 3 hours. if you will eat the meal in the next 1 month and keep the jars in the refrigerator, you can cook for 90 minutes. after 3 hours of cooking, I take out the jars. jars cooked for 3 hours can last out of the fridge for a year or more! you keep the jars handy and in a dark place. preferably a pantry or basement. when the jars are cooled, the lid must sink in slightly, only then the procedure was successful. before eating, heat all canned food at 80 degrees Celsius for 10 minutes. it is a safety measure because botulism poison is not thermostable. it will decompose! if you like the recipe leave me a heart in the comment and like. thank you dear friends! 2nd recipe: canned chicken with vegetables and rice. I add chicken meat to each jar. I will use drumsticks and chicken legs. I add rice to the first jar and shake the jar to distribute the rice. I add dry organic seasoning and salt. pepper sweet ground pepper clove of garlic I pour cold water. I will leave 1 finger of space. I put a spoonful of chopped onion in the second jar. carrots , green and yellow green beans, a little rice. clove of garlic and pepper salt dry organic seasoning sweet ground pepper I pour cold water into the third jar and add onion. I add green beans to carrots. dry spices and pepper to taste, salt , sweet ground pepper, pour water into each jar, add a spoonful of vinegar 9%, wipe the top of the jar with vinegar. the lids must fit snugly. I put the jars in a saucepan and pour water up to the height of the lid. when the water boils, cook for 3 hours. you can keep it in the fridge and eat it within the next month! if you want it to last up to a year and store it outside the fridge, you need to cook it for 5 hours! this is necessary because meat contains bones! you will always have a meal ready with your family. you can take it on a trip to nature. when the jars cool, the center part of the lid must sink in. only then is there a vacuum in the jar and the procedure was successful. if the lid has not sunk after cooling, eat the contents of the jar within the next 3 days. I'll open one jar to see how our dish looks. write me in the comments from which country are you watching me? from which city? it's nice to know that the whole world is watching! it has an exceptional smell and taste. if you like the recipe leave me a heart in the comment and like. thank you dear friends 3rd recipe: preserving beef in jars. recipe for beef stew. I cut 1 kg of beef shoulder into pieces dear friends, thank you for the support you give me in the comments. thanks for watching me i'll put the meat in the bowl. I will cut 1 kilogram of onion. I will heat 100ml of vegetable oil. I add the onion to the heated vegetable oil. fry for a few minutes. you also need celery. I will chop it up. I add celery to the onion. I will fry for a few minutes. I add the meat and fry for another 10 minutes. I add 1 tablespoon of tomato paste. I will stir 500ml of tomato juice, stir and simmer for a few minutes. I prepared clean jars, I put 1 bay leaf in each jar. a clove of garlic, a spoonful of vinegar 9% per 750ml jar, salt, pepper, sweet and ground paprika. I put our food in jars. write me in the comments from which country are you watching me? from which city? it's nice to know that the whole world is watching! wipe the top of the jar. I close the jars with clean lids, put the jars in a saucepan and pour water up to the height of the lids. when the water boils, cook for 3 hours. store jars in a cool, dark place, basement or food pantry. when you open the jar, this vacuum sound must be heard. only such a jar is correct. the stew has a fantastic taste. jars can last without refrigeration for a year or more. if you like the recipe leave me a heart in the comment and like. thank you dear friends 4th recipe: canned meatballs in sauce chop 2 onions and 2 cloves of garlic chopped onion add to 1 kg of minced meat I add 2 eggs salt pepper dry organic seasoning sweet ground pepper. Mix 3 tablespoons of breadcrumbs with your hands to make meatballs. write me in the comments from which country are you watching me? from which city? it's nice to know that the whole world is watching! I will heat 50ml of vegetable oil. I will fry the meatballs for a few minutes on both sides. I put the meatballs aside, I need some space. I add 1 tablespoon of flour and fry for 20 seconds, add sweet ground pepper, fry for a few seconds 500ml tomato juice 500ml water organic dry seasoning. I simmer the pepper for a few minutes and put it in jars. jars are 0.7l , add 1 tablespoon of vinegar 9%, wipe the top of the jar and close with clean lids. I put the jars in a saucepan and fill them with water up to the height of the lid. the cloth at the bottom of the jar will not allow the jars to bang and break. when the water boils, cook for 3 hours. when the jars cool, the lids should sink in slightly. only then did the procedure succeed. jar last out of the refrigerator in a dark place for up to a year or longer. heat to 80 celsius for 10 minutes before use. it's a safety measure I use for all canned food! if you like the recipe leave me a heart in the comment and like. thank you dear friends