hello everyone this is an introduction to the research and collaboration. HeLx provides a environment in which science communities can include Linux environments, visualization tools, Nextflow and others. The data driven framework Kubernetes container scheduler. HeLx was purpose We have architected a highly customizable and ease of use. We make it easier for research teams through a single management interface called the web browser. HeLx handles authentication session so your team can get straight to the data. a high level of customization flexibility while also ensuring repeatability of research by via their containers. HeLx can run anywhere a option for private or air gap scenarios where HeLx follows the Twelve-Factor App principles for charts. The top left tiles describe the components authentication, App Store user, and session describe the metadata driven architecture of Helix specific applications in its workspace and the App Store acts as a toolbox to couple all of your in to App Store and can launch their own dedicated Compute resources like CPU, GPU, and memory can launching the workspace. Each workspace hosted in marked by Semver to ensure repeatability of the can be containerized, chances are it can be are completely customizable using a simple more about HeLx, visit helix.renci.org. This is I'm on the HeLx UI splash page, and I'm going support using one of these identity providers. Now a service in a Kubernetes environment. We have advantage of Kubernetes' positives without needing itself. What you see here is our workspaces page. different applications that are available in each is any application that supports containerization and it can be added to a deployment so your applications that you use coupled together. we have uh CPUs and GPUs available to be toggled in they'll launch one of the applications. Let's session managed environment, so you can work being installed in that environment when you you can see that the application has been see in our websockets here that the application monitor will give alerts to launch sessions or if to this Jupyter session, and here we're connecting my individual username and then this is my session permanent storage that is available in Kubernetes, an NFS storage mount that my user information is information is saved in a familiar way. So here be my personal directory. You can see these call it new file 2 and we can go ahead and edit Helix.&quot; We can save that and now I can go back and you'll notice that once we relaunch the Helix also supports sharability. We we have a with other users on specific projects and the other applications here called file lower level directory in there is new file to started the environment again, and we're is just a convenient way from a UI Okay, so we want to stop it all and all of really all there is to HeLx. We try to remove the to your data so in this way you could create have them all in the same place with storage and Hello everyone. Welcome to this short introduction science instruction. eduHeLx is a specialized course deployment makes course specific apps and to all the students and instructors, reducing the environment on professors and students. While the a learning management system like Canvas, system and Autograder is used for grading the help portal, as well all current eduHeLx course shift Kubernetes cluster. The eduHeLx platform fit course needs. Each eduHeLx deployment has an uses Canvas to set up their course material eduHeLx deployment. The instructor can then create and automatically grade them - all from the course assignment details and grades on Canvas eduHeLx student deployment. This diagram shows Lab Professor which is a Jupyter Lab interface reviewing assignments, implementing automatic On the lower left is Jupyter Lab Student, which is access course assignments, conduct analysis, and for automatic grading. git is used for storing integrates with course management systems like 2U now include UNC SSO, Google, and GitHub. eduHeLx addition, applications can be launched in eduHeLx limited to only Jupyter-compliant analysis tools, For example, additional libraries or environment login. eduHeLx can run on a secure FERPA compliant with a learning management system. Here are some that eduHeLx is a user friendly, reliable a ready-to-use environment with features like and scalability, making it ideal for data science your course, visit helx.renci.org. We are going and HeLx is a platform which provides access eduHeLx is a specific deployment of HeLx, which that are relevant to a classroom environment. Jupyter Lab Professor. We have a file browser. to a certain classroom environment that we have into Jupyter Lab, which I've already deployed. but if I go to active tab here, I can see that running. Currently, Jupyter Lab Professor is the for just professor,s and it allows professors to students. Students have their own version, all of the published assignments in one place place. It shows the open date and the due date click into a specific assignment. So let's click is published, it's open currently for assignment two. I can change the available and that will update in canvas. I have see that assignment two is due at December 2nd and then come over to Canvas and refresh, there it able to control some of the state that is in we consider to be the source of truth though so to Canvas and you would create them in Canvas. now we can create a template notebook. This is the it created for students. Here's a template cell. do that and this example notebook is just a good to write notebooks that have tests in them and now we can create the student notebook or create while it builds and there it is you can see that this assignment. Zero have submitted and zero are minute. Another thing that you can see in eduHeLx you've changed this file or not this file because the professor's version and you would change it adding a question right after that you can create that student version will look like and then once and push these changes to students. So let's is a description of or a summary of the assignment to push to students. You can see these changes in to quick sort student- student. This is the file students. So let's go ahead and do that. After a comes down here in the bottom right successfully that you saw this student notebook to all of the what happens when you want to grade an assignment. submission and let's go ahead and grade and upload when you press it, it will kick off a process that now we see that we have one student that has been them has been submitted and graded. Next, we can that this student got a 0% on their assignment must have not filled out the cells correctly. so now you can come in here if you want to and the student created that the student submitted. see a folder called eduHeLx hidden files student under that and you can see the submission for that it was submitted today at 1:16 p.m. It's download it so that I can test in my professor do wrong&quot; if I want to troubleshoot specifically for now in the professor side of the extension. see they'll see applications that are relevant applications like file browser; they might they might see other applications like PG admin; So we're going to check out Jupyter Lab and you'll Jupyter Lab so we can come in here to the active click connect. Once it opens up you'll see that it list of active assignments, upcoming assignments, click into Assignment Number Two. You'll notice here. It tells us the assignment notebook. We can are none we can see prior submissions which none and with we can see down here that we can are sub unsubmitted changes so let's go ahead like. A student will come in here and see &quot;oh let's run these cells and see what I get.&quot; Okay, question one this function is not implemented so I two I think that's probably just going to require run these questions or run the cells again and has immediate feedback that they've passed the just saved this file, and you'll notice that here so now it says this file has been modified. this file has been modified and that this is the assignment. Now obviously this is grayed out right submission. So let's do that. complete assignment submit assignment two. It's going to submit So it succeeded. I got a little notification in unsubmitted changes now because we just submitted tab that we had just submitted also you can see up and that's about all that there is to the Student