To perform the Dirac belt trick, you'll need And two: a large book. The book is to keep moves around. To begin, take the free end You will now see a twist in the belt. The What makes this interesting is that you're so you can't just directly undo the twist. around in space, as long as you don't turn for yourself to be convinced, but no matter twist in the belt. So, that was a big failure. the belt by 360 degrees, what if we instead rotations? Can we undo the twists now? Well.. [drumroll] Amazing! We can't undo a 360 degree twist, the Dirac Belt Trick. Paul Dirac, one of the this trick in order to help explain to his 1/2 particles, such as electrons and protons. in the book, &quot;Riddles of the Sphinx and Other For this older trick the first step is to scissors and pieces of string about 10 feet in the scissors and tie off the ends in two and hold the scissors right in front of you by 720 degrees. Once again, you can take out of scissors without rotating them. ...But with the belt. Anyway, what does any of this if you take a normal object, like this soup up exactly how it started. But now, let's say you have an electron. We'll see how it's oriented. Let's see what happens What? What happened to the plus sign? All rotating it and see if that helps. Ah look it's the plus sign again! So we can degrees, it doesn't return to its original original state. However, when we rotate it state. This is the property of the electron Now at this point, you may be saying, &quot;Wait, you can't say it's only a half!&quot; Well in order going to have to introduce some concepts from theory&quot; and &quot;Topology,&quot; which will take some worth the effort, because the story of the the most wonderful and fundamental in all Imagine you wanted to rotate this snowman. axis of rotation and 2, an angle of rotation. Now we could rotate any object we want, and So let's instead use these coordinate axes. to rotate it by. Throughout this video, whenever I rotate these image of its original orientation. Now, from radians instead of degrees. So for instance 180 degrees, 2p radians is 360 degrees, and you can specify a rotation with two pieces angle. We'll define the rotation to always the axis, in accordance with the standard point the thumb of your right hand in the the same direction that your fingers are curling. together in a different way. Instead of using which points in the direction of the axis in radians. So, using this, how can we understand the space of rotations is a set, and individual to one rotation. Concretely, we can picture have a 3-dimensional ball with a radius of ball. This point corresponds to a rotation, its base at the center of the ball and its have a length ranging from 0 to p because the direction of this vector corresponds to to the angle of rotation. To let you soak space of rotations on the right and the rotation Now ,there's actually something kind of funny if you rotate around an axis by exactly p is exactly the same as if you had rotated Therefore, this means that a point on the same rotation as the antipodal point on the So, we can have a point in the space of rotations other side. While it looks like the point just an artifact of our visualization. So the space of rotations is a ball of radius which says that antipodal points on the boundary Let's now give a summary of part 1. It takes an axis and an angle. Alternatively, we can of the axis and has the length of the angle. a ball of radius p where each point in the points on the boundary of the ball because an axis by 180 degrees are really the same. Now that we understand the space of rotations, of rotations. Here is an example of a path. going around it in one direction. Here I've displayed the point going around to. Enter: The Belt. If you think about it, a a start point and an endpoint. As we'll see. to a path through the space of rotations. Now, have the x-axis point along the length to the belt and the z-axis point along the Now, as we move down the belt,our axes will of these axes corresponds to a rotation we a path in the space of rotations. Let's look Here is a path that rotates around the x-axis Now let's do the same thing around the y-axis... ...and here's a version around the z-axis. Here's a more arbitrary shaped path. This looks kind of messed up though. Okay path, the path that just stays right at the to the trivial path is completely straight. Okay now let's talk about the belt trick again. trick are. &quot;What makes this interesting is that you're so you can't just directly undo the twist. around in space, as long as you don't turn What does it mean that you can't rotate the path. Notice that it starts and ends at the That means that the axes start and end completely But let's look at what happens when we change Notice that if the path doesn't end at the of the axes won't be unrotated. Therefore, end of the belt means that our path in rotation Now, what was the goal of the belt trick? twist.&quot; Remember that a perfectly straight trivial path. That means that making the belt path down to a point. Now for the path we let's look at the belt with a 2p twist in able to undo at the beginning. And, indeed, to contract this path. Intuitively, this is actually the same point. But, if we wanted bring these two points next to each other, to remain antipodal. Now, what about the path Let's separate out the two strands of this look at it. Now remember, earlier I was able see what that looks like here. [awesome music] I know that was a lot to take in so let's Here is the path corresponding to a 4p twist. points. For instance the two points labeled the same point. Now let's watch how this path can be contracted. Did you see that? Let's look at it again. each other, which allows one part of the path out the other side. Pretty neat, right? Here's another way to This time I've kept the path straight instead slightly different shades of gray. Let's see how these paths through the space stages of the contraction. Notice that there are essentially two rotations contraction works by making the axes go from their respective angles of rotation. So let's give a summary of part 2. Each configuration the space of rotations. The trivial path corresponds be contracted to a single point without having The Dirac belt trick is a demonstration of 2p twist can't be contracted to the trivial twist can. Allow me to introduce some notation. This of G. That is the lowercase g is one element of the way let's talk about groups. The word meaning. Namely, a group is a set with an rules that this operation must satisfy. The of the set G then g1 plus g2 must also be our operation with the &quot;plus&quot; symbol. We could stick with this. The second rule is that there must be some is short for &quot;identity,&quot; such that for any equal to g. The third rule is that if you g3, the result will be the same as if you rule is that for any element g, there must g such that g plus negative g is equal to inverse of g. These four rules are the exact, call a group. Now this is all a bit abstract what's an example rotations. Take for instance the rotation and the rotation around the y axis by p. How do we add these together? Well, for rotations, first and the second rotation second. So, around the x-axis by p and then let's rotate around the y-axis by Now notice that this final rotation is exactly z-axis by p. So, hopefully you can see how you can add What about the identity element? Which rotation the trivial rotation, the rotation where you What about inverses? How do we &quot;invert&quot; a around some axis in the counterclockwise direction, then we can undo it just by rotating in the So we can see that every rotation does indeed So that wraps up the explanation for how rotations opportunity for me to talk about matrices. for the rotation around the x-axis by an angle on a position vector. We can also write this vector. To explain what distinguishes rotation matrices discuss the inner product. Say you have two product of r1 with r2, which can also be written sum of the products of their components. Geometrically, the inner product of two vectors vectors times the cosine of the angle between both lengths and relative angles. This means inner product won't change. In other words, if we denote the rotation inner product of uppercase R times r1 and product of r1 with r2. For this equation to need for the transpose of the rotation matrix When we have this condition we say that the must be orthogonal if it represents a rotation. SO(3). Here, the &quot;3&quot; just refers to the fact that stands for orthogonal, and the &quot;S&quot; stands have determinant 1. This is just because we orientation of our axes, and have determinant on out, whenever I say &quot;SO(3),&quot; remember that of 3-dimensional space. One of the nice things about group theory is so general, it applies in many different example of a group. First, begin by choosing the 2-dimensional torus, which we call &quot;T^2.&quot; in. Next, choose one arbitrary point on the Consider a path on the torus that starts and can imagine the path like a little monorail Importantly, the path is directed, so if the we would consider that a distinct path. Furthermore, if they can be continuously deformed into Finally we define &quot;p_1(T^2)&quot;, which we call the set of all paths which start and end at explicit example of the torus, every topological Now, you may be asking, &quot;Wait how can we add look at a different topological space. Here cut out of it. Now let's choose an arbitrary Here is our little train going around the the second path, p2. Now to define the path p1 and then go around p2. We can continuously All right, so what then is the inverse of the train goes around in one direction, then around in the other direction. The path p plus negative p can always be deformed element of the group. So now that we know what the fundamental group the fundamental group... of SO(3)? Here we asking &quot;what is the fundamental group of a Well, here's SO(3). Remember: this is just put the base point right in the center. Now, corresponding to the 2p twist. If we add which can be contracted to the identity. Therefore, p plus p equals id. We could also is just because p can be continuously deformed Therefore the fundamental group of SO(3) only Here is the full table for how you can add This is the full description for the fundamental id with 0 and p with 1, then this table begins Specifically, we can see that the fundamental 2 also known as Z mod 2. Think about all of the beautiful mathematics belt trick is just a demonstration of the of rotations is Z mod 2. Now, if you'll indulge me for a moment, I'd so non-trivial. SO(3) is a good example of think of it as a group, AND you can think Therefore, we can study it using group theory, mathematics, you start by thinking about an think about it in a completely different way. think about an object interact with each other. topology, and the topology has implications Let's give a summary of part 3. A group is of rules. The set of rotations forms a group. and the group of rotation matrices is denoted associated with it called its &quot;fundamental and end at a base point. The fundamental group It's finally time to discuss spin in quantum of vectors with an x y and z component. Normally, set R^3, because they're comprised of three are a little different. They're instead comprised b are the complex numbers, and thus we say that a complex number can be written as a the imaginary part. Ee can also write it as it in terms of a magnitude r and an angle is that they can be &quot;conjugated,&quot; so for instance the absolute value squared of a complex number is equal to a squared plus b squared also Now, what do these complex numbers correspond an electron whose spin vector had the components of the electron spin along the z-axis, then up will be the absolute value of a squared. to be spin down will be the absolute value with components (1,0) will be measured to with components (0,1) will be measured to Notice that because all probabilities must plus the absolute value of b squared must Now, as we've discussed previously, vectors the transpose of one vector and multiply it have an inner product where you take the conjugate it by the other. Just to be clear, in order to take the conjugate conjugate the components and turn the column Now, you can use this inner product in order For instance, the inner product of (1,0) with of (0,1) with (a,b) is just b. Therefore, be spin up with respect to the z-axis is the of the spin-up state with (a,b). Likewise, to the z-axis is the absolute value squared with (a,b). Now, there's nothing fundamentally special up and down states with respect to the x-axis a state to be, say, measured spin down along of the inner product of the spin down y state the same thing for being say spin up along So whereas the inner product of position vectors product of our complex 2-dimensional spin of measurements. Now, we can also use the inner product to Remember that the condition that probabilities of a squared plus the absolute value of b to saying that the inner product of a spin we have this condition, we say that our spin have a &quot;physical state.&quot; Now let's talk about rotations. As we discussed 3 matrices. In order to rotate a spin vector, 2 matrix with complex entries. We'll label our rotation matrix needed to satisfy the times the matrix itself must be equal to the that this new matrix U must satisfy? First off, rotating a spin vector shouldn't because if that starts off as 1 then it should this to hold, we must have that the conjugate matrix. When we have this condition we say Now, aside from being unitary, there's one need to put on U. First note that the spin (e^(ith) a, e^(ith) b) have no observable the probability that the second state is spin difference in the final answer, because you're that inner product. Physicists tend to call this implies that the matrix U and e^(ith) Therefore, to get rid of this redundancy, be equal to 1. Finally we denote the set of as &quot;SU(2).&quot; The &quot;2&quot; refers to the fact that to the fact that they're unitary, and the the matrices have determinant 1. So to summarize part 4, quantum spin states vectors involves taking the conjugate transpose one. There are states which are always spin to certain directions in space. The probability will be the absolute value squared of its order to rotate a spin state, you must act Earlier, we got acquainted with SO(3) as a Well, first let's write the 2 by 2 matrix Now remember that U conjugate transpose times is equivalent to saying that U conjugate transpose this equation explicitly and use the fact then after staring at this for a bit we realize and c must be equal to minus the conjugate see that you must have the entries of a b, the determinant of this matrix is equal to value of b squared. If we write a = X + iY this matrix has determinant one becomes X^2+Y^2+Z^2+W^2=1. general SU(2) matrix can be given by four zthis is the equation for something called How do we picture this 3-sphere? Well, you is given by the equation X^2+Y^2+Z^2=1. The ball, can be embedded in three dimensional it. The 3-sphere, on the other, hand is embedded harder to picture. However, there is something you can divide it into two halves along the out the pieces and get two disks. These disks X^2 + Y^2 <= 1 in the 2d plane. Anyway, let's Here's a side-by-side view of the sphere and for a point to move around on the sphere from Notice that when the point hits the boundary Therefore, we can see that the 2-sphere is their boundary. Now, we can return to the 3-sphere by direct solid balls which are glued together along of one ball it will emerge on the other once. So, how is this 3-sphere related to SO(3)? the concept of a covering space. Here I have space. In this example, the base space is a circle, but it's been sort of doubled over can be projected down to a point in the base is a 2-to-1 function. But instead, what if we want to take a point in the covering space? Well, now there are lift it to. Let's just choose the bottom point point in the base space around in a loop and Interesting. So even tho.ugh we initially we moved around in a loop we were forced to Therefore, when we try to lift paths from the start point and the endpoint of the path though they were the same in the base space. Now we are finally able to describe the relationship space of SO(3)! Just as in our example this cover. Just to get acquainted, let's see what happens Now let's see what happens when we try to Notice that in the covering space SU(2) the the endpoint of the path. Interestingly you could use this fact to rigorously in SO(3). The proof follows by contradiction. the trivial path, then you could also continuously covering space. This would then get you a because the start point in the covering space space, and because the start point and end positions during this movie, then clearly space, therefore the path in the base space exactly what we wanted to prove Actually, this proof is just one aspect of paths in a base space lift to paths which space. To finish up this part of the video, let me just for kicks. Let's now give a summary of part 5. SU(2) can picture S^3 as two balls glued along their as the equator. SU(2) is a double cover of to the 2p twist in SO(3) to SU(2), then the not be the same. This fact can be used to in SO(3). At the start of this video, I said that rotating version of its original state. Let's now synthesize how this statement actually makes sense. The Therefore, to rotate an electron, we must a double cover of SO(3), and the 2p twist it started. More specifically, if we start then it'll end up at negative the identity However the 4p twist does end where it starts Therefore, rotating an electron by 2p negates it to its original state. So that completes equations, let me explain how to find the in SU(2). Start by taking a position vector two by two matrix r dot the Pauli matrices, plus y times the second Pauli matrix plus z the most general form for a traceless self-adjoint of this matrix is equal to x^2+y^2+z^2, which this matrix by U on the left and the conjugate will still be traceless and self-adjoint. Therefore, we can write this new matrix as dotted with the Pauli matrices. Because r must just be a rotated version of r, so the three by three matrix satisfies the equation how you convert an SU(2) matrix u into an Now notice that U and negative -U map to the This is how we can see that SU(2) really is Finally I should just mention that there's SU(2) matrix U corresponding to a rotation th. Namely, U equals cos(th/2) times the identity i n hat dot the Pauli matrices notice that negative the identity matrix meaning a 2p electron. We can also write this using matrix Whew, glad I got that all of my chest! Now, there are a few things you're probably rotate an electron? Clearly you can't just ball. There are two ways to answer this question. as the result of changing reference frames. it on a table, and put that table in a room. continuously describe its quantum spin state then when you've finished walking 2p radians be negated. Now, that's all fine and good, an electron. You see, an electron's spin will in some direction. If you then expose this cause the angular momentum vector to rotate known as 'Larmor precession.' Therefore you Here's something else you might be wondering: the minus sign which comes from a 2p rotation? First, take your electron and then put it locations. Then subject one of them to a magnetic the minus sign. Finally recombine the electrons. stemming from the minus sign. This exact thing Look up &quot;neutron interferometry&quot; for more overall phase has no observable consequences, overall phases in quantum mechanics, but only experiments. Here's something else I wanted If you take the 2-sphere and identify antipodal space known as RP^2, or 2-dimensional real To reiterate, every PAIR of antipodal points We can write this in the language of equivalence the equivalence relation that the point (X,Y,Z) directly extends to the 3-sphere. So, RP^3 that antipodal points on the 3-sphere are this has for us is that, topologically SO(3) being S^3 and gives us another way to understand On the subject of this covering space business, group of SO(3) is Z mod 2, the fundamental with only one element, which is because all that the fundamental group of SO(3) then has group of SU(2). This fact is intimately related SO(3) and not, say, a triple cover. If this learn some algebraic topology. One other thing I wanted to mention is the The ancient philosophers: Euclid, Plato, etc., based on mathematics. But, they didn't know which mathematical objects solids or triangles, the real building blocks spaces... you know stuff like that. So it appears that nature is far more subtle did she make these bizarre spin 1/2 objects, But, strangely, even nature isn't free to and constrained very severely, by the laws in SO(3) is simply THERE, no matter what. she could never devise, say a spin 1/3 particle, Z mod 2 and not Z mod 3. So while nature is some very rigid, and maybe even tautological today, we still do in the end get that same modern twist. Thanks for watching.