Hi today, you will see 2 days and life of a happy elderly couple in a Ukrainian village. first day. sunrise. we decided to meet the early dawn on the mountain and drink hot tea. From this mountain we can see our village We also took sandwiches and sweets with us It's much nicer to have breakfast with such a landscape - look how evenly the corn is planted! - exactly! time to get to work. this weather is enchanting, lovely wildflowers. chickens are grazing. In the morning you need to give the cow some water. Let's refresh the shutters! our pets are waking up too. then we will paint the stove and let's go graze the cow! we hammer a nail, and we wait until she eats her fill. here is our second pet. we paint the house, and wipe the table. Nature is beautiful nowadays. feeding domestic goats. looking at magical nature again Let's check how grandma is doing and kittens too. We will finish cleaning very soon. and again our kittens! while grandma finishes cleaning the table Grandpa goes to the store. we take the bucket and the blanket and sift beans. and you can rest before lunch. where is our grandfather? he's already arrived! - you're back! - what did you buy? - I bought everything! - we'll see now. he bought a couple of buns and sauce. - Well done. we collect water from the well, pour into a saucepan and we take it with us. pour the beans into a saucepan, rinse thoroughly drain off excess water and add clean. what a beautiful butterfly! we pack our things and we leave. through the fields, forest, all the way to the river. - look what the river has become. - hah. beautiful view. - you are okay? - Fine. we collect mint - it smells so good! wonderful fauna of Ukraine. let's go out to warm up. time for lunch. - Apple juice. and sandwiches. We're having lunch. - have some water and juice. Birds singing is soothing. - he is very cold. - delicious apple juice. And again lunch. need to get ready home. - give it to me. we're leaving - come on. - let's go. - like so. - Thank you! we're leaving... - the sand is very warm. - unlike water, warm! - haha. - had a good rest. the way back was wonderful and we came back in a good mood. we disassemble the bag... - mint smells good. - so much that I cough. we carry it to the table. - help me when you have time. - don't lay it out. sorting fresh mint. - I'll share it with my sisters, - we'll share with everyone! - the smell is amazing. - it's better that way. - let it dry out, - for now we're done. this year the harvest is fruitful, which means we need to harvest the corn. - I'll take the first, you'll take the second. ingathering. - Is there much left to collect? - a little more. ingathering. - difficult to assemble. - soon the combines will start working. work on the corn field is finished. - this corn is very dry. - fields too. fire up the stove. take the beans and drain off any excess water. pour in clean water and put it on the stove. cover it with a lid. After a couple of minutes you can add salt. remove from heat and let cool slightly, and at this time you can feed your favorite pets. we collect water from the well and taking grain with us we will feed and water the rest of the household. tiring work, but no one forbade rest. and grandma is already cooking! pour water and put it on the fire, covering everything with a lid. in the meantime, let's collect fresh vegetables! zucchini, carrot, tomatoes. our friend is observing! and we bring it to the table just like everything else. we take the basket and go for... hot peppers. we collect in bushes. we take the dog with us and we transfer it to the barn. nature never ceases to amaze. we select the best bushes and dry them. collecting more corn. we clean zucchini. add olive oil to the pan cut the zucchini and put it in the pan. again chop the zucchini, grate the carrots. and add chopped onion to the pan. mix it up. - I'm afraid it will burn. This is Hibiscus syriacus. chop the pepper and immediately add it to the frying pan, then tomatoes and add everything back to the pan, fried zucchini, beans, salt, mix it. it will definitely turn out to be something delicious! we make mashed potatoes. remove the frying pan from the heat and corn again! - this happens too. - everything fits in. You can carry it to the barn! - to the barn. - who cares? finally all the corn is harvested. - leave the trolley here. - everything, - We're not afraid of rain now. - come on. - shine at the same time. - the water is cold. - of course, she's from the well. wash your hands thoroughly, and wipe. Time to set the table. - Oh, mashed potatoes! -Are you hungry? - Yes. we put food on plates. - Smells good! and finally we have dinner. - tasty! - the food was a success dinner. - caught me. dinner. -you can eat later. dinner. - I'm already full. - it's understandable, you ate so much. dinner. - wash it down with compote. - cold. dinner. - everything. - Bima! spending time with our pets. - aren't you hungry? - go for a walk. spending time with our pets. we remove the wool from ourselves and open the shutters for the night. let's go into the house Today is over, which means we can go and rest. finally it's dawn! the first thing to do is close the shutters. - you meet us again. we close and go to the farm. cows, ducks. there are even hedgehogs here. milk the cows and at the same time give water. all ready. we give water to the horse too, and we take them out to graze. we give water to the calf, and give the goat something to eat. need to fill the basin with water and we take it to the yard. taking off our apron and wash it. wring out excess water, and dry. It's grape season now, it's very delicious. and tomatoes, they need to be collected. this is how much we managed to collect, but they still need to be sorted through. It seems that grandma decided to sing her favorite song. Hibiscus symbolizes fertility. sorting tomatoes. the kittens are still resting at such an early hour. the entire harvest must be collected before the end of the season, and sorted for the winter. fill the bucket with water and pour into a bowl of sorted tomatoes. wash thoroughly. assembling a meat grinder for tomatoes. Grandma was already cutting tomatoes at this time! - take it. - how good are they. we carry it to the table, Preparation, and grind everything. Hibiscus syriacus symbolizes fortitude . let's continue. the kittens are already awake. let's continue.. we put hay and firewood in the oven and set it on fire. open the oven. put the pan with jars on the fire, - cover with a lid. cover with a lid and let it warm up a little. After heating the jars, put the tomato juice on the fire. - maybe we need to remove the yushka? - no need, - there is no need. - Fine? - Yes. Leftover tomatoes can be fed to chickens. Place cans of tomato juice in a bucket, and take it to the cellar. for now let's tie the corn leaves together and we'll hang it on the wall. Our dog loves to go for walks. we take the second bunch of corn and we'll hang it up too. we take a wheelbarrow and take it to the corn field. and we open a can of milk and separate out all the sour cream, then pour the milk into a saucepan and put it on the fire. add salt. the kitten is also interested in what we are doing. remove the milk from the heat, add a spoon of vinegar, mix. you can add a little more. lovely flower. knead in hands. we are harvesting more corn. he wants to help. we are harvesting more corn. we're taking away. time to cook lunch. knead the dough and make a flat cake. put the flatbread into the mold. add mayonnaise, ketchup, meat, bell pepper. cut small tomatoes. add homemade cheese, tomatoes, one more cheese, we salt. place in oven. need to take carrots, dig up. homemade pizza is ready, which means you can put it on plates, pour homemade compote into mugs, and have lunch together. - tasty. - yes, - very delicious. and we finish lunch very soon. it'll be night soon. the cats are already asleep, and so are we