It's July 30th 1943 in the skies over Germany and a B-17 named Tondelayo is under attack. In the back is tailgunner Michael L Arooth. Mike as he is known to the crew is ready as the German BF109s and FW190s come in. Sometimes 4 at a time. Mike fires away at the mass of German fighters as do the rest of the formation as today there are 186 Flying fortresses and 123 P-47 Thunderbolts taking part in a raid upon German factories. "The Germans must think all tail gunners are stupid! They're coming in again and again, firing, turning bottoms up and slipping away." There is silence but then they're back. " Everybody, I need guns! " It's relentless. Mike sees most of the action. "They are approaching, get ready to strike! Fighter, fighter, 7 o'clock! The formation approaches Remagen when they're attacked again. The Navigator Elmer Bendiner said in his book Fall of Fortresses. "Near Remagen I noted the fall of two enemy fighters. I fired at those arrows in the sky, but I knew that I was merely making noise to let them know we were alive on the port side." Then the fighters disappeared. The crew knew what was happening next. The flak started. Tondelayo is rocked again and again by flak. The motors are grinding on. Tondelayo flying unswervingly through a sky of angry black shell bursts. " Bombay doors are open! " " They are away! " " Jeez, look at that, the bombs are away! " Look at that flak it's so thick you could walk on it! &quot;Bombs away, let's blow this thing and go home!" The bombs are away and the pilot Second Lieutenant Bohn E Fawkes turns the Tondelayo sharply to the right. As the flak starts to subside there's moments of relief before the fighters return. The transmission "Bandits, coming in 3 o'clock!" is heard. Immediately, the Thunderbolts accelerate to meet the threat, rising and disappearing from Fawkes' view. Behind him his top turret gunner opens fire and mere moments later a massive swarm of BF 109s falls upon the Americans. All the B-17's guns burst to life as the enemy fighters speed by all around, tracers filling the air. Outside the Thunderbolts put up a fierce defense but are simply overwhelmed. There's so many Germans the pilots can't chase them all and many start ripping through the bomber formations completely unopposed. Amidst the chaos Fawkes can do nothing but steel his nerves and hold station. " 5 o'clock, 5 o'clock! " Their formation is their strength, he must keep the girl steady even as he witnesses their compatriots getting torn to pieces around him. " Look at them, those are pure devils. Stay focused! " In the back Arooth is an expert gunner and he's putting his skills into full display. A second 109 sweeps in for an attack run, but barely opens fire before Arooth's flawlessly placed barrage rips its wing right off. "Come on! Who's next?!" &quot;Mayday, Mayday! We are going down! " Across the flying fortress all the gunners have their hands full. Enemies zip past underneath, and at either side. It's a total swarm. Casings and links cling on the floor amidst a symphony of machine guns as they all fight for their lives. Enemy shells strike the Tondelayo's wings several times, but the tough girl somehow carries on. &quot;Fighter, fighter, 7 o'clock!&quot; &quot;Roger that!&quot; Back in the tail a third German comes into the attack at breakneck speed, but it's not enough to throw off Arooth. The twin machineguns unleash their power with deafening bangs, casings and links clinging on the floor, again the enemy is torn apart by the volley. But his luck was bound to run out. When A fourth BF 109 approaches from his left guns blazing, Arooth doesn't get a chance to fire before a 20mm shell detonates right next to him, tearing open a gash in the fuselage and sending metal fragments flying straight into him. His left leg is hit with the brunt of the explosion and injured severely by shrapnel. His oxygen tube is ripped, his left machine gun is destroyed. Mike get's on the intercom. "I'm hit in my right hand and my left leg." Then the crew hears a jumble of static. "Mike! Mike! Do you hear me? Mike! Mike,are you ok? Mike?&quot; Fawkes feels the impact and realizing that Mike is hit, and he now has a bandit on his tail and no tail gunner to face him. Against all bomber pilot wisdom he pushes on the stick, plunging the Flying Fortress into a small dive in a desperate evasive action. Behind the cockpit the spent cases roll across the floor and the crew are overtaken by panic and dread as they feel their plane falling underneath them. 'WHAT THE HELL?' According to the Bendiner the navigator Bohn was climbing, diving and making corkscrew patterns in a crazy choreography designed to unsettle the fighters, who were pressing in from all sides. &quot;He said, 'When I tried to stand, my feet slipped from underneath me.' I clung to my desk and the gun, waiting for the attack to subside.&quot; Holes start to appear in the formation as more and more planes go down. " Oh my Gosh look at that, they're going down " When at last Mike came on again his words were jumbled and he sounded as if he were calling from a painfully long distance 'THEY BAILED'. " Do you hear me? Mike! " But at least the crew knew he was alive. The attack continues, but strangely there's no waist guns. A call goes out across the intercom: &quot;Bombardier to waist gunners, bombardier to waist gunners. Come in, come in.&quot; &quot;Stockman, Herrin, come in, Goddammit. Come in. Do you read me? Duke, come in. Bombardier to radio. Duke, come in.&quot; The Tondelayo's motors whined on. &quot;Mike's voice came across the intercom, vague, blurred, with an odd calm: 'They're gone.' ' What does he mean they are gone?' 'What the hell is he talking about?' Bohn is furious. He gives control to the copilot and makes his way through the plane. The radio operator is gone. Getting as far as the waist gunners he's shocked to find them abandoned. There, they find the radio operator. Bendiner said: "He was sitting on the floor, one leg dangling beyond the open hatch. Bob and I pulled him across the floor past the waist ports, where the wind howled as in an arctic blizzard, where one could see the silvery wings of our enemies curvetting and spitting sparks. The floor of the fuselage was torn in spots, the metal peeled back. Multicolored cables were in shreds. We sat Duke up in the radio room and looked to see whether he was bleeding. He was untouched, but his eyes were dreamy and he wore a smile of absurd serenity. There was no oxygen in the rear of the plane." Back in the tail Arooth's left leg is shattered, bleeding profusely and unmovable. He defies the pain and with the freezing cold wind rushing through the hole in the fuselage he tries desperately to reach his emergency oxygen supply. But he is way too injured and cannot get to it, he gives up on the oxygen and returns to his machine gun despite hypoxia and blood loss quickly setting in. He fires indiscriminately to a multitude of targets hounding them, determined to protect the B-17 to the bitter end. The fighting is constant and Arooth's last functional 50cal jams. A Bf 109 starts to set up it's attack run. Arooth's mind is struggling for oxygen. But, despite everything impairing his mind, he identifies the problem in an instant. The Bf 109 brings the Tondelayo into it's sights. Arooth opens the receiver and clears the jammed canvas belt, refitting it. The Bf 109 starts to open fire. Arooth gets back on the gun an raises it in an instant just in time to meet the Bf 109 with a storm of lead reducing it to a ball of flame. The fight drags on but no other 109s attempt an attack run on the Tondelayo. Eventually the battered enemy turns away and the skies finally fall to calm. The remaining crew are deeply shaken, and not understanding how they are still alive.. One of the members checks on Arooth and is shocked to see the state he's in. He provides first aid; making a tourniquet on his leg, providing morphine, and fitting Arooth's emergency oxygen while the Tondelayo continues on its mission home. Hours later the aircraft made a safe landing back at base. Arooth was in shock, but he hung on to life. Medics provided immediate assistance and he would recover. Tondelayo had come back by the skin of its teeth, seemingly saved by the accuracy and sheer raw determination of Arooth, and Fawkes' quick thinking. But they would later discover that a third person also saved the B-17. Upon landing the men observed a strike right into the B-17s fuel tank and were amazed at their luck. The detonating shells of the 109s should explode the fuel tank from within, ripping the wing in half and triggering an inferno, but this one had apparently been a dud. Later that day ground crew opened up the Tondelayo to retrieve the unexploded ordinance but when they tore apart the tank they were shocked to find 11 whole shells stuck within. A single dud was incredible luck, 11 would've been nothing short of divine intervention. But as the armorers opened them up, a different reality came to light. Not a single one had explosive filler. They were empty, just a hollow piece of lead. All except for one. Rolled inside one of the shells was a piece of paper, which had a message written in Czech. An intelligence officer scours the base for someone to translate. Its message is read to the crew: It says: "This is all we can do for you now." It had been sabotaged by an unknown and brave soul, imprisoned and forced into weapons manufacturing by the German army. He or she would never know it, but their actions directly allowed 10 men to return home. The entirety of Tondelayo's crew would survive the war, even those who bailed over Germany. They were captured and remained in camps until their eventual liberation. Arooth was hailed as a hero by the other men, he ended the war with 17 confirmed victories and a dozen "probables". He lived a long life and passed away in 1990. Today a plaque in his memory lies on the Springfield, Massachusetts city hall. We spend every cent we make on the next videos. And the more viewers we have, really helps us to make better videos each time. If you enjoyed this film we would very much appreciate it if you could hit the subscribe and notifications bell. Thank you.