Within a period of 11 weeks in the year 1888, a heard the stories; you've seen the movies, unembellished, the whole bloody tale? details of the crimes you've never heard frankly disturbing things about day-to-day with our thoughts on who Jack the Ripper was. things are f****d up," but after researching this more f****d up than the streets of Whitechapel the streets, the incredibly mean streets. was at going full steam ahead, having already the globe. Britain was an incredibly wealthy sun didn't set on its empire, yet the money referred to as the irresponsible lower classes. place in Whitechapel, an area of East London its poverty-stricken streets, a collection Whitechapel High Street. This Whitechapel slum, "the abyss." One writer explained that this harbored among those whose only crime is poverty." explained, "An evil smell hung about the butchers' whole street with alcoholic fumes; from sewer Rats scurried around underfoot. Diseases were thrived in conditions where entire families were the lodging houses you'll hear about flourished. There were outbreaks of smallpox a thick pall of smoke from coal burning. the perpetrators having the cover of smog, could In 1885, there were 13,319 police officers in Londoners. This includedthe variety of immigrants Irish, Russians, Germans, French, and Italians. Scotland Yard introduced the Criminal plainclothes cops who, at first, investigated with investigating serious public crimes. of the Metropolitan Police, a man, as you'll H-Division of the Metropolitan Police was Superintendent and a Chief Inspector, there were Constables, as well as 15 CID men. They policed 300 people in the Whitechapel area. It's fair to The American author Jack London explained of abject poverty." He said the streets beer-sodden appearance" where he witnessed "long obscene with sounds of jangling and squabbling." of violence, which was amplified by and fictionalized in the popular Penny Dreadfuls, In 1888, even the Penny Dreadfuls would look depravity. Everything was about to change. Millwood of Spitalfields was savagely An article in the Eastern Post explained, Whitechapel Infirmary suffering from numerous She made a full recovery and was sent to the what Coroner Wynne Edwin Baxter said was a "sudden the left pulmonary artery through ulceration." Life expectancy for the whole of London during on average, much longer than the poor. The life If we look at the age of deaths according 1891, the highest death figures of people in Whitechapel died from age but not much more. Males tended to die Annie Millwood had been a prostitute, as many obtain temporary lodgings for the night. Ada Wilson was attacked in her home. Ada was a she had many male "visitors" come On the night of the 28th, a man arrived Mile End. She answered the door. A mustached demanded money. When she refused, he used These stories might or might not directly but to understand him, we must understand that serial killers often build up to their most Less than a week after the attack on Annie, getting ready for work at her lodging house, She was 45 and already a widow. Not "unfortunates" - she was a prostitute the darkest alleys for the lowest prices. Emma would often "come home with black eyes she returned home traumatized, explaining The night of what would be a much more savage clothing and a white neckerchief. The woman said she had been punched in the mouth that Later, she met Emma, who said she had just the papers called the "dirty, narrow entrance to Margaret took her to London Hospital, where Emma a man who was used to seeing drunken prostitutes. a torn ear and damage to her peritoneum and "outraged," as the term was back then. She died following a rupture of the abdomen. In the report "She was in the habit of leaving at about usually drunk... She was aged 45 years, 5' scar on right temple. No description of men." was attacked by three men, one as young as 19. roamed London at night, or was it part of a Emma's death did not go unnoticed. The End. Newspaper headlines included On Saturday, 14th April, The "Robbed, outraged, and wounded unto death, by a gang of ruffians while she was Describing Whitechapel for "It seems scarcely possible to believe that a and yet she is no more than a typical example of those who patronize the foul haunts of fighting, and all other loathsome vices are the shillings a week for the 'accommodation' The coroner said it was "impossible to imagine a he know worse was soon to come. Far, far worse. Martha Tabram was found dead in George Yard off Martha, abandoned by her father when she was but the devil drink got its claws into her, and was a prostitute, he reduced the twelve shillings Close to the time of her murder, she William Turner. They tried to make ends but it was never enough. As was common she sold her body at night. William eventually lives impossible. He explained: her character for sobriety was not good. If on drink. In fact, it was always drink..." like to call it, plays a major role in this story After London's so-called "Gin Craze" in the to implement laws, the Gin Acts of 1736 and 1751, average consumption of gin in London was two pints drink any alcohol. So you can imagine how much The government had some success, but in the once more. It was at the center of much of the 14th November 1891, explained, "There is no all the crime of the east-end of London. The wives are often worse than the husbands." told The Edinburgh Evening News on Thursday question of drunkenness, directly or indirectly, When poor folks couldn't afford gin, some resorted women whose lives comprised a long Another report stated: go where you will, you will find more women than some not over 22 years of age." But what about the kids, Many poor kids roamed the streets, since after supposed to work at all and children 9-13 years From 13-18 years they could work no more than 12 after kids who'd formerly been in the mines and was criticized much more than it was analyzed. my district recently at eleven o'clock in three houses consecutively, all Unfortunately, many of the witnesses you'll hear of the crimes. London was soddened with cheap witnesses to serious crimes. When she died, William was staying at Street and Martha at a common lodging The last time he saw her alive was the junction of Leadenhall Street and Aldgate so he gave her one shilling and sixpence. six-day week in London in the late 1800s was common laborers. For bricklayers, smiths, shillings and six pence per week (Twelve pence Women upholsterers might get nine shillings a ten shillings a week. Those people who walked various goods were paid one shilling to The cost of a single room per week for lower-paid shillings, but the temporary lodgings, aka the about throughout this show, were much cheaper. pence a night, but unlike the workhouse, there pence in today's money is about two dollars. pence; for that, people were offered a sometimes called the "two-penny hangover" find there were just children, beggars, little scoundrels. Compared to the At around five in the morning, the rope was cut, There were also the "penny sit-ups," sleeping wasn't allowed. Monitors Better were the Salvation Army's four or could sleep for the night and were offered a The writer George Orwell later remarked, "It is which, being enclosed in William was staying at a workhouse, where consisted of a lot of porridge, and Martha in with other women for her sixpence a night. after which another woman would take it. Lodging timeshare, where prostitutes could disappear In Whitechapel, at the time of Jack the Ripper, there were 233 common lodging houses home to drunkards, and prostitutes who often stink and rendering the inhabitants There were close to 1,200 prostitutes in the streets, but also in the 62 brothels. This was cover on foot in twenty-odd minutes, so there were demanding protection money from shopkeepers and as fair game. The entire area was chaotic; not When William gave Martha the money, the Martha was desperate for a room that night. Even Mary Anne Connelly, aka "Pearly Poll." Ann Morris, saw her in the White Swan Pub on the two being bought drinks by two soldiers, a together but split up at George Yard. It was time Mary took her soldier to Angel Alley, a known for fighting and chasing rent collectors The East London Advertiser called it "one of Martha and her man chose the At around 2 am, Police Constable Thomas when he noticed a soldier and remarked that soldier to tell him he was waiting for At 3.30 a.m., 21-year-old Alfred George Crow, Buildings. He thought he saw something on the and the homeless often lay around the building. John Saunders Reeves, saw something on the that it was a woman. He saw blood and immediately the scene of the crime with Constable Barrett, Killen later wrote that the deceased had with the perpetrator stabbing the woman 39 her with a regular pocket knife, but also what he At first, police did not know the released a description to the newspapers: apparently between 35 and 40 years of age, about wore a dark green skirt, a brown petticoat, The East London Observer described the crime as possibly imagine. The man must have been a perfect Inspector Edmund Reid tried to ascertain had seen. Reid interviewed suspects at On August 9, Mary came forward The East London Observer wrote the next 'Pearly Poll,' proceeded to the Tower on Monday non-commissioned officer and private who was on She failed to pick any man out whom she and been drunk, but she told Reid she remembered meaning they were likely from the Coldstream turned out it couldn't have been them. Both The South Wales Echo reported "Pearly Poll is a dangerous person to trust. She give them a clue to the Whitechapel murder." The East London Advertiser commented that a woman could be so brutally murdered as disappear "without a trace or clue being left." Murders, but by no means is it assured that Some Ripperologists have said he may have investigators at the time of the killings who but for the most part, people agree on five. "signature" and "modus operandi." On August 30/31, the weather report the second day of the moon's last quarter, it for a woman named Mary Anne Nichols. Born Mary Ann Walker on August 26, 1845, not Mary was the daughter of Edward Walker, In 1864, Mary, then just 18, got William Nichols. Life was good. until young William had an affair with fourth kid. The relationship had been with William saying he'd had enough The two split up in 1880, with barring one of the boys who went to live with barely able to survive on the five shillings In 1882, when he found out his former beloved was completely. Mary went to live with her dad, but either, so she ended up in a workhouse. than the workhouse. The workhouse for poor Mary later managed to land a job as a domestic two months, she stole three pounds, ten ending up in a lodging house on 18 Thrawl Emily Holland, as well as four other women. She might have been just five feet two, with a scar on her forehead and missing her front That night, August 30, she was spotted walking this one was grim. She'd earlier been kicked out pence for the bed. Still, she was adamant she'd house deputy as if she didn't care about the At about 12.30, now August 31, she was The night wasn't as fine as the weather At 2.30 am, Mary was seen by Emily Holland Lane. Emily told Mary she'd just been In those days, there were often fires in London, Emily later said Mary was steaming drunk. her back to Thrawl Street. It seems Mary had "I've had my lodging money three times today, she'd be back at the lodgings another time. Buck's Row while on his regular beat. at that time, as was Sergeant Kerby. None of a carman (like a delivery driver) named Charles to the gates that led up to New Cottage. sheet, but when he crossed the road, he path with her hands by her sides. Lying at with black velvet. Her eyes were open. Her Robert Paul, another carman, soon joined Cross, After feeling her cold hand, Cross said the and since it was still warm, he said she was policeman, later finding PC Mizen at the At 3.44 am, Constable Neil came across the body. throat had been cut from ear to ear, leading Neil to believe she'd only recently Mizen was soon on the scene, as was at 3.47. It was Thain who went off to find Dr. knocking at the doctor's door and waking him up. and get more help, this time from Bethnal Green James Mumford and Henry Tomkins, were on the the body, noting the severe cuts to the throat As Sargent Kerby joined what was now a the body was taken to the mortuary shed at Old awaited Inspector John Spratling of H Division a Mrs. Green cleaned up the blood in the street. Some believed the woman had been killed elsewhere whom you'll meet again in this show, was sure At about 5 am. PC Neil and Inspector Spratling They were then taken aback when informed by violently slashed open, exposing her intestines. were given the unenvious task of washing the Sargant Enright that she shouldn't be cleaned yet. full post-mortem examination of the body. He first that the killer had likely held her head as he two cuts, both penetrating the spine, some 4 There was a deep, jagged cut on her abdomen as well as a series of smaller cuts and three doctor assumed the cutting instrument was a all these cuts would have taken four or five had some rough knowledge of human autonomy, body. It seemed the killer was left-handed although the doctor later said the killer may have Later that same day, at the Whitechapel inquest in front of a crowd of excited spoke on the first day and eight on the second. by her friend Emily and by another woman, Mary showed a laundry mark of that workhouse. On "Seeing you as you are now, I forgive Inspector Abberline, the former head of work on the case. The investigation was at first he was replaced by Detective Chief Inspector likely the culprits but still interviewed the The cops were unsure, but that didn't stop They talked of a man referred to as Leather and robbed a number of local prostitutes. The East its readers, stating about this man, "His face of the grizzly black strips of hair, nearly an the thin lips too had a cruel sardonic kind the drooping dark mustache and side whiskers." the "Hebrew type," a Jew. It's important to state Europe, there was rampant antisemitism. with public anger boiling up over this mysterious The panic went up a notch. Annie, known to her friends as "Dark Annie," was She married John Chapman, a coachman, when she Annie's life did not turn In 1882, she lost a 12-year-old Her crippled son, John, was placed in care. Her leaving Annie daughterless. She split on the 10 shillings-a-week allowance he was a heavy drinker, dying from liver cirrhosis. but her drinking got the better of her, later told the press that his sister had "first warnings from him and her sisters, she always It was then she followed the trajectory of so many 35 Dorset Street, Spitalfields. To make ends meet, when money was scarce, she turned to prostitution. Edward "the Pensioner" Stanley paid for her It was at this point that her friends often talking about how she wanted to die. up in a fight with Eliza Cooper who'd accused her Another story says Annie noticed Eliza stealing A few days later, she was taken ill, treated not but for a general feeling of malaise. this 47-year-old woman looked a state. with dark brown hair and blue eyes, she had bruising on her face and had lost two front of her teeth were ok, explaining, "The front top and bottom and very fine." Amelia Palmer, saw her on Dorset Street. Annie she was going to Stratford, likely where "I must pull myself together and go out and At 11.30, she heads to Crossingham lodging house where at around midnight, she's seen by William she's been to the hospital. On opening the box, Annie, Stevens will later say, was already drunk sister in Vauxhall, but instead of using it for on drinks. Beer ads from 1880 tell us you could was very cheap if a person couldn't afford beer. the lodging house, asks Annie for the She tells him she has no money, then that if he'd be so kind as to hold the bed, she'll So, Annie needed to make four pence and bashed up from fighting. She was ill. make on the streets as a prostitute? This is understand the lives of the Victorian poor. Whitechapel prostitute would cost in those how desperate she, or maybe he, was, and generally thought a quicky down a dark alley with was the absolute bargain basement of sex work. The best work was when highly attractive or even politicians. These women may but payment for sex was the name of the game. Some in a world where they had few opportunities. "I shall not say why and how I became, at the It was very common back then for or should we say girls. According to W. T. Stead, the Titanic, a rich man could have a medical If she was indeed a virgin, her services could only sell this service once, of course, pervasiveness of venereal disease in those days. five pounds was 1,200 pence. You could rent a area, for 14 to 20 shillings a week (168 pence Prostitution was one way an uneducated poor woman not a word usually used to describe that living. which led to the government introducing Law Amendment Act of 1885. a man explains that he paid as much as "five what he described as a feel. As is true today, but at 47, ailing, not too pretty, with missing likely have inhabited the bottom rung of the women." Her services, we imagine, were cheap. "You can find money for your beer, and you can't into the street and heads to Brushfield At 3.30 am, a carman named Thompson leaves which is home to 17 people living in eight rooms. which is just a few yards down the street. the son of one of the occupants of 29 Hanbury area measuring 14 square feet. He bends down as his toes are hurting. He sits there for At some point between 5.20 and 5.30, a carpenter Hanbury Street, walks outside and thinks he since the houses are divided by a five-foot hears a woman say "No." He then thinks he hears but then everything goes quiet. On his way At 5.30, Elizabeth Long walks down Hanbury and she sees a man and a woman talking outside Annie Chapman. The man she can't see well but she can make out he's about 40 and taller than what she will call a "shabby-genteel appearance," Long will say she is sure this guy is foreign. "Yes." She was sure it was 5.30 exactly Brewery on Brick Lane strike for half an hour. goes downstairs and into the yard, whereupon he fence. Her head is about six inches from the shed, her left arm lying across her chest. waist. Her face is completely covered in blood. he shouts in the direction of a man named Henry Kent, both about to go to work at a packing case All the men see the body and head off in different for a policeman but gives up and elects instead He soon returns with a sheet to place over what who first gets to the cops when he arrives at Still panting from the run, he explains to By the time Chandler gets to the there's already a crowd. He soon sends for and ensures someone gets news to Scotland Yard. left arm is lying across her breast. Her knees swollen and turned on the right side. The tongue the lips. The tongue is evidently much swollen." Her neck has been sliced with jagged incisions. some has spattered onto the fence. The doctor no signs of blood elsewhere in the yard. He Chandler and Phillips tell the crowd to get back, They come across the woman's belongings: a envelope containing two pills. On one side of the there's a seal for the Sussex Regiment. Two, fingers. A leather apron is found close by, but it Detective Sergeant Thick arrives, as do Sargent thinks the same thing. This looks like the work have a madman on their hands. after showing his annoyance at two nurses begins his post-mortem examination. A report "There was a bruise over the right temple. and there were two distinct bruises, each the top of the chest. The stiffness of the limbs the middle part of the bone of the right hand." her lungs are diseased, and so too is her he believes. There wasn't much food in her the killer had held her chin while cutting her The report stated: been entirely laid open: the intestines, had been lifted out of the body and placed on the the uterus and its appendages with the upper of the bladder had been entirely removed." other organs. The report said, "Obviously, at least, who had such knowledge of anatomical or the pelvic organs with one sweep of the knife." "seemed to indicate great anatomical knowledge." it would have taken the best part amount of skill and anatomical knowledge. ordinary knife but either a surgeon's knife. He did say that he thought she'd throat and went to work on her internal organs. he didn't include all these details out of fear that Annie had been killed about 4.20, but this been heard, the people that would have seen her down to fix his shoes surely would have noticed Baxter concluded that Richardson just didn't the others who heard her, Baxter said they On September 26, Baxter announced that whoever had some anatomical knowledge, more than an of the organ removal was just too good for that the murder had something to do with an London looking to buy human organs. inquiry in later inquests. Telegraph reported, "The funeral of Annie the utmost secrecy having been observed, and none deceased knew anything about the arrangements." a man who was obviously covered in blood, just glide through a city full of people London was aflame with conspiracy theories. where it had happened, so many of them that people vegetables. Hawkers scurried around, pickpockets The British Home Office refrained from offering and confuse police. The press again talked about blaming the Jewish population. Jews were verbally everything to stop a riot from happening. There were a few suspects, the who police dragged in for questioning. As they threatening to hurt women in the Pope's Head like many poor Londoners, was mentally unwell, show he had a history of alcohol-withdrawal in strange or aggressive, psychotic behavior. known as "The Crazy Butcher," was a Swiss He was said to have carried a knife and been for a crazy person (as insane crazy) since they atrocities. They were wrong, of course; serial Ripper might have been a friendly neighbor, a When police heard that Isenschmid had lost his as well as spending time at an asylum they thought they might have their man. Killer" was, without doubt, the "The Crazy Crazy Butcher was living inside a straightjacket First, who was Leather Apron? Police got hold of him on September 10. face and a dark mustache. After being investigators found five long-bladed knives at his Emanual Delbast Violenia said he'd seen Pizer Violenia made contradictory statements, so Pizer Violenia was unreliable, according In 1889, Violenia's plans for emigration to was arrested and charged with indecent was subsequently attacked with an iron bar in These were the kinds of people Whitechapel police Some Ripperologists have said Violenia only came dead body of the victim. It's known he was a 18 years in London after arriving from Spain. of the more xenophobic newspapers, but "Crazy Jew" and "half beast, half man," there was the murders. For one, he'd been with relatives; as they both watched a massive fire burn at While some of the media in England called misinformation, many of the poor believed In the end, Pizer sued some of the papers, down by publicly stating, "There is no The residents of Whitechapel were so worried formed the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee. Now about to take things a step further. weather was noted as "Cloudy with rain, Chilly indeed, especially for a woman named in Gothenburg, Sweden, with the name Elisabeth Liz." Her father, Gustaf, was a farmer, It seems Sweden wasn't much better for Liz was arrested for prostitution in Gothenburg. and she was treated two times at a hospital The next year, she moved to London. A man testified that she'd come to London in the who knew her said she would do a "good turn for London would chew her up and spit her out. The two seem to have a decent life living on after which they started running a coffee shop didn't do well. Liz did some jobs on the side, It's reported that during this era, as much as Notably, at some point, she runs into a her lodging house asking people how they thought of the common lodging houses and the street." her dead body and confirm he'd seen her that day. Barnardos, exists today and does great fact he's connected to the Ripper Disaster struck on September 3, when John Stride Princess Alice passenger steamer was hit on the The passengers died horrifically in water where London's raw sewage had just been dumped. They poop. A writer for The Times newspaper recalled: sewage, hissing like soda-water with baneful miles and discharging a corrupt charnel-house being particularly depressing and sickening." and wide to watch the clean-up effort and With five shillings up for grabs for just bloated corpses. The water was so disgusting the bodies. 16 people who survived the crash Liz said her two children also died in the made this up in an effort to receive sympathy John and her two kids went missing. Liz also said was because she was on the sinking boat and was may have died of heart disease in 1884. The jury What is certain is that in 1885, Liz started although the relationship was strained to padlock her in the house, but, of course, From 1887 to 1888, she appeared in Thames and disorderly. She and Michael broke up a few at the time of her demise. He, too, was a drunk, three days in prison in July of 1888 for being On September 29, 1888, at approximately 6.30 pm, Head pub on Commercial Street. Tanner is the Dean Street. She's paid six pence to Liz on drink together and later walk back to the lodging curly hair and light grey eyes. She's pale That's what Charles Preston sees at the lodging from him. Catherine Lane is also there, and, from Liz. Liz tells Catherine she is going out, At 11 pm, the laborer J. Best sees Liz at the he was surprised at seeing a woman kissing a man as five feet five, wearing a smart black morning black moustache. Best jokes with his buddy that another woman. They jokingly shout over to the The man and Catherine walk off towards Commercial the woman went off like a shot soon after eleven." Matthew Packer in front of his room at 44 Berner The location is two doors down from Duftfield's medium height, and has dark hair and a the woman as Liz, although he will say At 11.45, laborer William Marshall, is outside his a woman, this time outside house number 63. They "You would say anything but your prayers." Duftfield's Yard. William later says the man dark trousers and a cap, like a sailor's stout in build and average height. his beat when he sees a woman with a man wearing International Working Men's Educational Club, a Smith will say the man was about five wearing a dark cutaway coat. and 6-8 inches wide, wrapped with newspaper. was wearing a red flower pinned to her jacket. a red flower pinned to her, talking with a man wearing a black cap with a peak. This man, He will say the man tried to pull the woman down The woman screamed, but not loudly. Notably, smoking a clay pipe. He was tall, about 35, Schwartz will say the two men might have been that the Ripper had a partner and so the crimes At 12:45 a.m., a dockworker named James Liz. She is standing with her back against a to a guy of average size wearing a long black "No. Not tonight. Some other night." When Brown later, he hears cries of "Police!" and "Murder!" her house on Berner Street from 12.30 to 1, and Yard, which is right next to her house. jewelry seller, tries to drop his The pony is reluctant to go "I jumped down at once and struck a match. It sufficient to show that it was the figure of some He ran to 40 Berner Street where the Club was located. Diemschutz was the Ripper might have been in the shadows when have run away when he went into the club. On a tailor's machinist, the two used candle Diemschutz said: the back of the hand and wrist had clotted blood to the wall. The body and face were warm and deceased had a silk handkerchief round her At 1.04 to 1.07, PC Henry Lamb and PC where there were now about 15 people. Lamb Commercial Road to find Dr. Blackwell, who sent When Dr. Blackwell arrived at 1.16, he said about 20 to 30 minutes, meaning the Ripper Diemschutz and his pony entered the yard. Dr Blackwell said that the woman "There was a clear-cut incision on the neck. and a half inches in a straight line below inch over an undivided muscle, and then, The East London Advertiser wrote on October 13 Whitechapel. Critics at the time said it was openly mocked Sir Charles and his bloodhound is sheer stupidity, and what type of fool is Some of the papers called the victim "Lucky Liz" others. What was strange is no blood was found theory was that Diemschutz might have scared him but it was thought since she was a middle-aged left to right like the others that she Some newspapers said she was clutching grapes at Liz was buried in a pauper's grave (number the next victim was the very opposite of Born in Wolverhampton on April 14, 1842, Catherine on a pension from the 18th Royal Irish Regiment. young, Catherine had toughed it out as a Conway and moving to London, things but fought bitterly. Conway hated alcohol and opportunity. She was often seen with black the two had. Still, one superintendent of a and was a very jolly woman, often singing." forever marked on her left forearm in the form of porter, John Kelly, at 55 Flower and Dean Street, a lot of crime. Of course, on top of Catherine's she sold her body at bargain basement prices. At the time of her death, she was 46, had brown tall. On September 27, she arrived back in London she arrived at the lodging house, she told the money, saying she would collect the reward for was. She said quite calmly, "I know him." She told for the apprehension of the Whitechapel murderer." parted ways for a while. Catherine said she was while Kelly pawned his boots as a means to the pawn ticket. That evening, Catherine Louis Frederick Robinson took her to the asked her name she drunkenly slurred, "Nothing!" she said her name was "Mary Ann Kelly of 6 Fashion receive a "damn fine hiding." He replied, "Serves At 1.34 am, Joseph Lawende, commercial traveler, furniture dealer named Harry Harris, all left the saw a woman and a man talking nearby at Church They didn't see the woman's face, but They described them as, "Black straw bonnet beads. Black strings, worn tied to imitation fur on the collar and cuffs." wearing a grey cap with a peak, a red neckerchief, mustache. The woman, they said, had her his friends he hated walking home alone with At 1.40, PC James Harvey walks down Church to Mitre Square, but doesn't enter. He Dr, Blackwell and co are attending to the dead The distance between Mitre Square and Duftfields distance is about 10.6 minutes. Jack the Ripper victim and engage in his ad hoc surgery. his failure might have angered him so much At 1.45, PC Edward Watkins enters Mitre Square he discovers a body, that of Catherine. This dark take their clients. When a torch is shone on Watkins almost jumps back when he shines the torch He runs to the other side of the square George James Morris. Watkins stays with the who is still close by. Across the street, Whitechapel is swarming with police and drunken man covered in blood, carrying a knife. Detective asked "for the neighbourhood to be searched we are talking about only one square mile, At 1.55, Dr. Frederick Gordon Brown, police checks the body, he finds the pawn ticket. "The intestines were drawn out to a large extent smeared over with some feculent matter. A piece body and placed between the body and the left arm, right ear were cut obliquely through." thing to behold. When she was found, she'd likely there was no blood on her abdomen or thighs. No on the clothes. He wrote, "There were no traces when he did his surgery. He'd killed her first. very much mutilated. The upper eyelid on skin on the left upper eyelid, near eyelid was cut through to about half an inch." stating, "It required a great the kidney and to know where it was placed." who also saw the body, said this didn't mean He said a "butcher or slaughterman" would also said this work could have been done have actually been looking for certain organs. 2:55 a.m., a blood-stained fragment stairway of a tenement building in Whitechapel's said it also had fecal matter on it. On the someone had written, "The Juwes are the With the spelling mistakes, too, it sounds like Jews or not blaming Jews. Did not be blamed for Ripper dropped the apron off on his escape route? his knife with the apron and thrown it down? bloody apron? It was hard to tell. Cops wiped did not want it to get out at the time since such a statement could have started riots. How did this killer always slip away so Police left out much of the mutilations choice about suppressing what happened next. received a letter signed by someone calling now-famous Dear Boss letter. "Dear Boss, but they wont fix me just yet. I have laughed when right track. That joke about Leather Apron gave ripping them till I do get buckled. Grand work the The killer also promised to clip the ears of them to the police. Whitechapel Murderer became Jack the Ripper. apparently covered in blood, signed by Saucy Jack work tomorrow double event this time number off had not the time to get ears for police." sent the postcard, or had he read about them missive? It was hard to know. Police took and printed them in newspapers, asking anyone Still, some police thought journalists had written get their newspapers a lot of attention. police received masses of hoax letters, around Hand-writing analysis in the 20th century says the but a journalist, it was later found It was on October 16, when a letter now known as of the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee that It read: Mr Lusk, I send you half the Kidne I took from one women it was very nise. I may send you the bloody knif signed It also contained a bit of a kidney. Lusk thought a hoax. Nonetheless, Ripperologists these days thing. After all, Catherine was missing a kidney. belonged to a heavy drinker (tick), who'd died later, Major Henry Smith of the City Police said was in an advanced stage of Bright's disease, and Catherine was buried on Let's now move on to Jack the a murder with a different modus operandi but with If you're wondering what the difference the first means the actions necessary to commit a streets. The former is described as "a pattern of and satisfy, emotional and psychological needs." or taking the organs. It's more Mary Jane Kelly, aka, Black Mary, born in John and Mary. She later became the wife of John Wales shortly after they got hitched in 1879. she soon hit the streets in Cardiff to sell her in London, young enough to get herself a client hence her other name of Mary Jeanette. in a cramped room in Miller's Court four shillings a week to pay for the room. who brought home the bacon. The problem was she didn't have a room for the night, which seems Mary then lived in fear. She hated being alone read her newspaper stories about the killer. But slim and about five feet seven, Mary had beauty (maybe two false teeth), and she was intelligent, that of most persons in her position in life." friendly and bright person, but demon drink sometimes made her loud and abusive. Mary at 25 Dorset Street. It's a cold night and but they meet almost daily. Lizzie Albrook actually spoke to Lizzie, telling her, "Whatever 11.45, Mary Anne Cox, who lives at 5 She's wearing a frock and a red shawl over her 35. He was five feet five, or thereabouts, a bowler hat. The couple stopped at 13 Miller's Cox notices her friend is, in her own words, "very other, after which, Mary can be heard singing grave when a boy." The song is about someone's When Cox goes back out into the streets around At 12.30, now the 9th, Catherine Pickett, a flower Mary's constant singing. The noise carries to Joseph had once broken the window and instead put a coat over the hole. Catherine tells her her loud singing, at which he replies, "You Cox leaves her house, but notices the light is That's about the time the prostitute Elizabeth her partner. She waits about half an hour and She's at the shop for about ten minutes. In this although she also says she heard no singing. of 26 Dorset Street. She's very drunk, At 2, a man named George Hutchinson, a casual Home on Commercial Street, walks past a man at strange time to be hanging around, thinks nothing who asks him for cash. She says, "Mr. Hutchinson, "I spent all my money going down to Romford." She walks in the direction of Thrawl Street. Mary says, "Alright," to which the man I have told you." They laugh and the George gets a good look at this man when he sees His skin is pale. His mustache is heavy and dark. later describe as having a "Jewish appearance." eyes. His coat is dark, trimmed in astrakhan. He's pin. He's wearing dark spats (boot covers) over massive gold chain in his waistcoat which had a man is carrying kid gloves in his right hand and a or 5' 7&quot; tall and maybe about 35 or 36 years old. follows until they stop at the passage that leads "Alright my dear, come along, you will be at which point she kisses him. She and he pulls one out and gives it to her. in the street until the clock strikes 3. cat "Diddles" walking across her neck. She right above Mary's, but she can't tell if says she didn't do anything since in the East "murder." From 5.30 to 5.45, this woman goes to sleep. On returning home, she sleeps until 11 am. to borrow a shawl. When she knocks on the door, no heads to the market. It's at this very time that Mary leave her room and return quite quickly. Dorset Street lodging house, sees Mary at the skirt, black velvet bodice and a maroon shawl. early, and Mary replies the "horrors of drink" alcohol withdrawal. Caroline suggests Mary go tells her she just tried to drink some ale about this meeting later with police, although Caroline sees Mary about 9 outside the pub with a Maurice Lewis sees Mary in the same At 10.45, John McCarthy, Mary's landlord, sends get her rent money. Thomas knocks but there's so puts his arm through it and moves the her. The Times newspaper will later say this Thomas runs off in search of a policeman. He tells Inspector Walter Beck and the constables himself, at which point he sends for Dr. George Yard asking for assistance. Beck has never who arrives at Miller's Court at 11.15. At 1.30, Superintendent Thomas Arnold, head of with an axe, sees how much blood there is. It after the killer cut Mary's carotid artery in There are remains of clothes and a bonnet in it. the fire. Abberline immediately thinks the killer the well-known police surgeon from A-Division, and testimonies, these men will say when they found for many hours. Dr. Bond will say she died at 2, saw Mary after that will be mostly ignored. belief. Here is just some of the incredibly lurid "The whole of the surface of the abdomen cavity emptied of its viscera. The breasts jagged wounds and the face hacked beyond the neck were severed all round down to the bone. uterus and kidneys with one breast under the the liver between the feet, the intestines side of the body. The flaps removed from This was the work of a madman at the it was the nuclear explosion of obscene murder. surgeon, or even a butcher, just the work of a so wicked that the public wanted answers. think the whole thing was funny. He walked down soon arrested at the corner of Wentworth-street, paper wrote, "Two young men, one a discharged crowds which always on Sunday night parade this were raised, and the man was furiously attacked." bloodhound fan, Charles Warren, former CID head, would take over on November 27. and a handful of female friends in attendance. it was written, "In loving memory of Marie can know my sadness. Love lives forever." after this murder, but we also have to ask Torso Murders. From 1887 to 1889, police Only one was ever identified. Sometimes parts Times said this about one of the murders, "The not, however, the anatomical practical knowledge of a butcher or a knacker." September 10, 1889, under a railway arch in the Jack the Ripper's style, but her abdomen had been Between 1857 and 1890 there were rarely and during the 1890s the rate was usually below day, with London from 2018 to 2023 seeing So, there were more murders than the canonical but police then and still today say only prints on them. Still, even the last one, not outside but in her home, and with total Some have blamed her partner, Mr. Barrnett. her ears and eyes since there wasn't much of possibly belonging to him was found at the murder SP, and the number 2, and his address was There is speculation it was he who but that's all it is, speculation. Hell letter contained what looked like some lived in the area, but maybe the cops left him we know in today's world, the Ripper wouldn't have FBI came up with many years later. Also, the door meaning the killer might have had a key. Already idle rumors said he'd killed her out she shouldn't prostitute herself. Abberline Police interviewed over 2,000 people, them. At the end of that, they still had no idea although he once said, "We're lost in theories, suspect he particularly liked, George Chapman, Born Seweryn Klosowski, later studying Chapman beat his mistresses, poor women, did he fit the description of a dark-haired Still, the Ripper killed strangers, not lovers. misogynist, though, and a killer whose wife at a time. He lived in George Yard, and for at Wandsworth Prison on 7 April 1903, the same Robert Milne, who was for a time the Metropolitan wrote in a paper he presented at the International that Chapman, like Abberline had We won't go into detail for all the Was it the Oxford-educated Montague John Druitt? His own family thought it was. This Thames not long after the last murder. at having to hide his homosexuality. because of Assistant Chief Constable Sir Melville Remember, this was a time of rife homophobia. and even today, Druitt doesn't seem like a In his famous memorandum, Macnaghten a Russian conman, who Macnaghten wrote He wasn't, and no serious investigator But Macnaghten's third choice, Aaron who ended up in the asylum after threatening his it certainly seemed that way in 2019 when a paper it had proved through DNA taken from Catherine Still, some scientists have refuted the findings. which is why Russell Edwards, author is absolutely sure Kosmonski was the Ripper. Patricia Cornwell, said she was sure he was the renowned artist, Walter Sickett. on Cornwell. She said his mitochondrial DNA sent to Scotland Yard back in the day and she said the Ripper, she was sure it was him. Still, the mark and as police are sometimes prone to do, There's the Liverpool Cotton merchant James Michael Barrett made public in 1992. Maybrick The diary entries describe ending with "I give my name that all know of gentle man born. Yours truly, Jack the Ripper." and Barrett had admitted in the past he created the journal shows inaccuracies with the as if someone was making the entries after reading consensus is that the dairy was forged. like the diary, has been tested by scientists for made in Leeds in 1847 or 1848. This is true. It's along with "I am Jack", as well as showing the Nonetheless, a smart person with time and money can't be sure. It's just too hard to tell, In terms of proving beyond any reasonable who would find any of the suspects put of the theories are just outlandish, but suit a people since evil aristocrats make compelling as some said? The prince wasn't even As for John Bernardo, the wealthy philanthropist children, he also makes a good tale, but there's The American Francis Tumblety is another in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, an who was staying at a boarding house in the He used to keep women's wombs in jars and show doctor who had potions that could cure everything. American psycho who had brushes with the law in "Knowing him as I do I should not be the least He was a scammer, possibly with psychopathic looking at him as a Ripper suspect, although extradited. It seems not, and anyway, the New under surveillance, said "There is no proof and the crime for which he is under bond in London was gross indecency, having sexual As for being the Ripperl, was he too tall said something about his outlandishly big The fact of that matter is, there are no the Ripper crimes were not committed by one man you today that another interesting part London for the poor. Now that was criminal! Bundy (Day by Day)." Or, have a look at "How