What did you feel when I started the channel? It's crazy that LeBron is playing with his son. Are you going to make that happen in the football world? Which is your favorite one? How did you feel when you hit a billion followers across everything? Do you think I'm going to beat you? What you felt when you saw I was going to start a channel? Yeah. I knew it was gonna... Honestly, I thought you were gonna do about 20 or 30 million in the first month; when you did 60, I was like, oh my gosh. It's like the most ever gained in one month before. Before you it was 20 million, and that was us, So sixty.. That was insane. Probably 13 years. Yeah. Took me like.. Do you think I'm gonna beat you? Do you think? Be honest NO! It depends on what you start doing. If you start bringing in other footballers and reacting to your best plays, I think you'd crush it. If you find a rhythm, you can make some killer content. But this record is for you I don't wanna beat that record, honestly You have a billion followers; I wanna have a billion subscribers on YouTube. Imagine. Yeah, it would take a while, for sure. It would take a while. We have 324 million right now. Of course Obviously, you're still a professional football player, so you have a lot going on. I think your greater asset is anyone will film with you. You could do so many cool collabs, kind of like this one. You should have Tom Brady appear for a video, Speed, all these big names. Also, something easy for you is like, after a big game, you could just hop in front of a mic, do a quick five-minute talk about what happened.That would be super easy for you, but you'd have so many people wanting to know what you think, you know. What do you think? Or.... Bro, can you imagine Ronaldo reacting to a video of his top 10 goals? Can you imagine how crazy that would be? You know that goal where you did a bicycle kick? I've seen that at least a hundred times. I'd love to know what you were thinking when you decided to do bicycle kick. That would be great I don't think that would hard staff; do more football related things. Because that's why we love you. How did you feel when you hit a billion followers across everything? most-followed man on the planet. Good achievement, ,but I wasn't surprised, to be honest. I know the passion that the people have for me and for football as well. Yeah, For the the career I still do it, I felt that passion, so it wasn't a surprise. I feel happy. but in the same way no suprised. Yes, yes, yes.. Everyone tells me I should celebrate, and it's like, why? I feel the same way. On YouTube, when people get a video recommendation, you know the image that pops up? Yes, they told me now. I'm known for my thumbnails so so I'll give you a few tricks. Usually , you put your face in the thumbnail, O, so whenever you take photos of your face, keep your mouth closed. Oh. Really? Yeah, they said it's cringe. some good high-quality shots of your face for your team to use in thumbnails. So you I want to show expression, so you just like. But it's cringe because there is 30 people watching. I'm kidding, I'm kidding. Where do you feel the country you have the most..? Oh, um, when we go anywhere in South America, things get crazy. and like we are in a hotel knocking on every door I'm sure you have weird things happening. we had to leave the hotel and I think they had to evacuate it fans sit in the hotel lobby. In the U.S., people are more chilled, they are like a hole different breed. I guess it's because not many famous people like really So when they do, it's a big deal. Where do you live? North Carolina. A tiny town So there is good. It's cool Oh, yeah. I just... I live in my studio. . We have a big studio where we film videos, and I live there. The worst thing... I assume you fly private everywhere. sometimes is brutal. It's like... uhhff I don't do it in so so many years. I would pay money to see Ronaldo flying comercial to see how.. Imagine putting on some glasses and record the reactions. That is good content for YouTube and then went out on a commercial flight; the amount of photos people would ask for. I mean, they'd have to cancel the flight. A normal seat. Imagine. waiting to my... he is obviously way more famous than me. running up and down the aisle With him, the entire plane would turn into a Photo booth . It would be insane. I'm thirty-nine And a few months... Okay. Almost forty. You're about to die! I'm going to live until 100. I just want to let you know. And you know in football, this is a long career Because most of the time people retire at 33, 34, 36. You're like the LeBron James of football. Yeah. I wanted to ask you when you Never. Never. I'll probably be doing when I'm 90 I'm like you; I want to live over a hundred. I don't know how, but with technological advances, So hopefully... I mean, if I stopped, what would I do, watch TV? Maybe you have another passion or something that you... I just enjoy building busineses; you know, It's good. Good to know that He is getting harassed by a fly! Someone just clip this! I see the fly over his eyes, a very much. I buried myself alive for seven days. But you did? So this is my coffin and they put twenty thousand pounds of dirt on me. and I spent a week lying down in a coffin. I'm under there. People knew it's real, we time lapsed the whole thing. But how you feel? Horrible. I couldn't move for a whole week. There was a fly trap in the coffin too. You didn't move for a week? Yes, just lying down there. This is after seven days. This is when they dug me up. But you are like... This is the doctor who pulled me out; they thought I had a blood clot, How did you feel inside? bad? it was horrible because I was in a coffin, Your back, right? Yeah, so I did 7 days buried alive and also in a padded room, with no interaction, no time. Brother, you're crazy, huh? Yeah, that one was brutal. I did 7 days on a deserted island, which made me want to die. Then seven days on a raft drifting, seven days, yes, and seven days in an underground city seven days in an abandoned city... ... My fans love watching me suffer, so I do things Wow, It's crazy So, this are the most hardest one? This one? No. What would you say are the hardest, Tyler? (The solitary.That ones are crazy) Which are the solitary? Here, I'll show you. No phone? Nothing? But where? Let me show you, it's pretty wild. when did we upload this video, Tyler? Is it an old one? When did you start doing these, the videos and the channel? Oh, I've been doing this since I was 11 S. So I've been doing it for about 15 years, This is the solitary confinement one. So an entire... It's just me in this white padded room, Oh, my God. And it's soundproofed. Was this the hardest one? Oh yeah, this one is so hard. The lights never turned off; so you don't see the sun or anything; and see you just want to tell simulation. And then, there were 90 hours in, and that was all I had, so it was brutal. So, that video for example. That got a hundred. How many? A 189 million views, 186. And people loved it. They love watching me suffer. Jimmy...so it's kind of just fun. Which video has more views? The most-viewed... yeah, is it the Squid Game still? Yeah, So yeah. We recreated Squid Game in real life, I put 100 people in a circle, and the last This one has almost half a billion views. So this video 4% of the humans alive have watched. So look at this: I said, I don't care how long it takes; the last one to leave the circle takes and it went on for weeks. And people were just wondering, That was funny. What is your favorite one? Oh, I like them all. I mean... This video is the one that broke the internet. It's the most-viewed video on YouTube in just 24 hours. so no other video in YouTube history has gotten more views in 24 hours. We brought the biggest YouTubers on the planet So, all these really famous content creators, We built a huge cube and put them in there, could give away a million dollars Okay, Okay Basically, everyone was in there. It's like if you got the 50 biggest football It just broke the internet. That video got 70 million views in 24 hours, Good good good. Do you like other sports? I love basketball. Basketball? Do you watch basketball? Not much. I love watching Steph Curry shoot three-pointers from half-court. Ahh, good. And it's crazy how LeBron it's now playing with his son. : Are you going to make that happen in the football world? Maybe. I'll see. He is fourteen now.. Maybe he'll play when he's 17, so you'd have to play for 3 more years. Let's see, let's see how my legs are doing; we'll see. Your son is watching, He knows more things than me, about this world, YouTube, he knows everything. So,I heard this is your water brand? What made you want to do it? Basically, a good product. A good quality water for me, Doesn't matter if it's water or supplemets for example. If it's a nice product, I want to be associated with it. Makes sense. This is what I think. How do you deal with the fame? How do I deal with it? Well, right now, probably like you, I just work all the time, As you said now, it's your first time in Saudi, I invite you to come to any game of your choice. And your team swell, to come and watch a game Which is the most iconic one, with big events. What's the biggest game? Who's your biggest rival? It's Al-Hilal... yeah, yeah. Let me know when they play Al-Hilal. We play now, next month, If you want to come, I'll invite you. That would be fun. And you'll love it. Saudi is a lovely country. love. It's all these lovely country. If I come to watch you, you'd better win... Yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't worry. So you're invited whenever you want, Thank you.