Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was the last Shah of He is also known as the last Persian emperor. In 1979, after a revolution took place in the Shah had to flee to a foreign country For 44 years, the descendants of the Shah returning to their homeland. One of the most prominent members of the Iranian Noor. She is already 31 years old; you will be amazed Keep watching the Wow channel. The Pahlavi was the last Iranian royal dynasty, Of these, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who is called almost 48 years. He is remembered for introducing a series to transform Iran into a world power. The reforms led to significant economic growth in the world. Iran's army was considered the fifth strongest The country also had significant achievements For example, Iranian women had the same rights held important positions at work and dressed skirts. The reign of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi also had He was an authoritarian ruler with absolute in his affairs. In 1967, he declared himself &quot;Emperor&quot; or in his honor. In 1971 he marked the anniversary of 2,500 It was a grand event that attracted the elite Such a large-scale celebration required incredible $90 million was spent on this feast, which Foreign guests, of course, were delighted, the lavish spending of the Iranian Shah. The contrast between the luxurious celebration was so striking that it caused a great scandal. Despite remarkable economic growth, most people this event. In protest, university students went on strike. However, the Shah believed this event helped attract new investment. At that time, the Shah of Iran was one of His personal fortune was estimated in the Such amounts were accumulated thanks to the All royal family members received shares in Thanks to this, they created huge assets. So the country had grand corruption. And besides, the majority of residents continued despite the reforms. Some of them couldn't accept the fact that could participate equally in the country's The Shah's opponents tried to kill him several During the last years of his reign, the Shah illness, he became lethargic and indecisive, affairs. The conspirators took advantage of this to way of life. As a result, the discontent of the conspirators 1979. The Shah, his wife, and his children had to For many months, they wandered around the Panama, and the USA. At the same time, the life of members of the After fleeing abroad, they made large deposits in London, New York, and California. Just a year after his exile, the Shah died His oldest son, Reza Pahlavi, who was 20 years He declared himself the new king of Iran, the throne of the Pahlavi dynasty. He also became the leader of the Iranian emigration of Iran, an exiled opposition group. Reza Pahlavi settled in America and married They raised three daughters in this marriage: Farah. Today, Reza Pahlavi is involved in politics of the ruling regime in Iran. His daughters support his views and still Princesses experienced an upbringing quite The oldest of them was born in Washington usually enjoy. It also sans the heavy burden of eventually His most famous daughter is Princess Noor, She was born in 1992 and was the first immediate out of her native country. After graduating high school from Bullis School degree in psychology at Georgetown University. She also studied at Columbia University and impact investment company. The Iranian princess lives in a wealthy society She often attends fashion events and popular Noor knows how to dress beautifully and elegantly. She appeared on the covers of magazines such Indonesia. The girl often attends fashion shows and loves However, in everyday life, she prefers the wears jeans with T-shirts. Noor inherited her love of fashion and beauty who loved luxurious outfits and expensive Noor once said about her beloved granny: "She's today, many of whom are her friends, but she designers." Princess Noor really has an incredibly beautiful invited to pose for fashion magazines. However, she devotes most of her time to activism. The girl has never been to Iran, but judging about the life of this country. She dreams that Iran will be free one day, wear what they want and control their lives. Princess Noor today is perhaps the most beautiful She is very similar to her grandmother, the By the way, they have a very good relationship We must admit that the 84-year-old last empress She wears smart business suits and is still For example, Farah Pahlavi and her 31-year-old Retailleau at the French senate before a conference which protects the rights of religious minorities. They discussed the ongoing revolution and &quot;We also discussed measures the international and support Iran's people, whose fight for France prides itself on standing for,&quot; - Princess The Princess maintains close connections to engaging with articles on Medium.com, where and Persian. As you can see, the granddaughter of the last of her country, even though she has never USA. Noor is an active member of the Iranian-American "All I can do is cherish the Iranian values the freedom I have in America to be all the The last time, for example, she was present Mahsa Jina Amini, whose tragic death ignited Islamic Republic and sparked a revolution. The girl called on the international community In her opinion, in this case, there is no Princess Noor has almost a million followers primarily to tell her audience about the problems in this country. Most of her recent posts focus on political The girl hopes peace will return to Iran and walking freely along its streets. &quot;Most of all, I have hope for the future of It will be a place for all Iranians where respected. Where its wildlife and environment will be By the way, many Iranians still consider Noor heir to the throne, so they listen to her When it comes to her personal life, Noor is At least there is no information about her But recently, her younger 30-year-old sister Sherman, who works in finance. Soon a happy event will happen. The whole family is waiting for the moment They also dream that someday they will be Do you believe that they will ever achieve Thanks for watching. Remember to share your thoughts with me, click See you next time.