(upbeat music) - On this program occasionally, we do make fun of Donald Trump. Occasionally. (audience cheers) And with the ribbing and the joshing and the pulling the pants (audience laughs) He's in pain right now. - Multiple sources tell Trump has grown increasingly upset about Harris's surging poll numbers. - Trump is quote, - Posting multiple times on social media, clearly frustrated with saying, quote, &quot;Now we have (audience laughs) - Not fair! Jesus. A month ago, he was basically (audience laughs) He had cheated death, started (audience laughs) Back then, people thought his VP selection was a smart choice. (audience laughs) He had it all in the bag. It was perfect on the beamy. Now at the dismount, he to get his medal, (beep) Romania files an inquiry at the lasy- (audience applauds) Right at the last minute. And they're just stealing it from him. And by the way, Romania, file all you want, you're (audience laughs) You're not getting it back. Oh I'm sorry. &quot;We have an inquiry.&quot; Yeah, good luck. (audience laughs) But now, instead of enjoying of Biden attacks, Trump's And the audience has to literally sit through him getting up to speed. - There are numerous You can say Kamala. You can say Kamala. Kamala. Kamala. Hey, Kamala. - Trump misspelled Harris's (audience laughs) - I get Kamala. I get Kamala. Kamabla? (audience laughs) Judges, are we taking kamabla? (buzzer buzzing) Oh. I hope the Romanians don't But you know what, I isn't as important as - I don't know is she She was Indian all the way, and then all of a sudden, she made a turn and she became a Black person. (audience laughs) - &quot;What am I gonna do with that was gonna use? Mostly involved turmeric and cumin. (audience laughs) She made a turn into Black.&quot; He talks about it like she wandered into the wrong neighborhood. (audience laughs) &quot;She went driving on the Upper West Side, and then boom, she's in Harlem. Boom. What a turn.&quot; You know what, Donald, Let's get some issue You know we're gonna do. Come on, my brother, Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna do- We're gonna do some... Apparently I'm in a musical (Jon humming) All right, here we go. I got my pen, I got my Forget the biographical stuff for now. Let's focus on the issues. - I saw it yesterday on &quot;Oh, the crowd was so big,&quot; and I've spoken to the biggest crowds. Nobody's spoken to crowds bigger than me. (audience laughs) - Okay, okay, that's one for the single issue crowd sized voter. (audience laughs) I'd move on. But oh, you've got more. - I had 107,000 people in New I'm so glad you asked. What does she have We had in Harrisburg 20,000-25,000 people and 20,000 people couldn't get in. We had so many... Nobody When she gets 1,500 people, they said, &quot;Oh, the crowd was so big.&quot; I have 10 times, 20 times, (audience laughs) - &quot;I had an infinity crowd. (audience laughs) One guy, she had one guy named Jeff.&quot; (audience laughs) All right, very clear, you Can we move on? - He wrote, &quot;Has anyone at the airport? There was nobody at the and showed a massive crowd but they didn't exist.&quot; He goes on to say she's a and the crowd looked like 10,000 people. - Oh my (beep) God. (audience laughs and applauds) Now all right, for those of &quot;Oh, it sounds like he's Just because there's video that Kamala Harris's crowd was real doesn't mean that it was real. (audience laughs) And then you might say, &quot;Oh, well, Jon, I was actually there. I was in the crowd,&quot; and have you considered you're not real? Have you considered that? (audience laughs) What is this? Donald Trump doesn't and their AI crowd because he's got inside from someone she used to date. - Well, I know Willie Brown very well. In fact, I went down in We thought maybe this is the end. We were in a helicopter going to a certain location together, and there was an emergency landing, but he told me terrible things about her. (audience laughs) (audience laughs) - You were in a helicopter with former San Francisco who famously dated Kamala Harris, and while the helicopter was going down (audience laughs) as you were plunging former San Francisco mayor, (audience laughs) and says, &quot;This might not (audience laughs) Do you remember that lady (audience laughs) The prosecutor? Well, before we die, (audience laughs) I just want you to know, she's the worst. (audience laughs) I do not want to meet my maker without giving you that If you survive, you may need it.&quot; Oh my God. (audience laughs) I gotta tell you. I'm was seared not only in the but also into the memory of - To be clear, you have with Donald Trump. - No, I have not. Are you kidding me? I'm just assuming he had a helicopter and he made a mistake (audience laughs) - What?! What?! That is so (beep) dumb! But I'm sure that is not what happened. What are the chances his Black people. - It seems that the African was not Kamala Harris's ex, Willie Brown, but rather a former Los Angeles City Council member who says he had a bumpy (audience laughs) - Oh my God! Do you know what this means? - Nate Holden, former Los told Donald Trump as their (audience laughs) bad things about Kamala Harris. That I guess Willie Brown had told him, if they knew each other. (audience laughs) That is the only explanation, right? - Holden saying, quote, living in San Francisco, I'm a tall Black guy I guess we all look alike.&quot; (audience laughs) - Hey! Donald Trump is not racist. He just meets a lot of (audience laughs) and he needs some mnemonic device help. If the chopper goes down, (audience laughs and applauds) A little, little mnemonic device. Here's one. If the flight's not going great, you're probably riding with me. (audience laughs) Look, people, they pulled the It's hard. You think you could write It's not easy. He's trying. He's trying out some good - If Harris wins this election, you will quickly have We could end up in World War III. The suburbs will be overrun. - Boom, That's what I'm talking about. Stock market crash, World it's fresh, it's new. We haven't heard... What - If Biden get it, you'll the likes of 1929 or worse. A very real risk of World War III. They're going to, in my (audience laughs) - This is just a remix? Dude, you can't just That's lazy apocalypsing. Look, man, if you want us to as the existential threat you'd you're gonna have to do better than boilerplate cut and paste shit. You're better than this, Donald. - Joe Biden is a failed president. She was a failed vice president. The worst president in the history. The worst vice president in history. He's incompetent. She's incompetent. Everything he's touched has been bad. Everything she's touched He can't talk. She can't talk. And in many ways, he's worse than Bernie. She's worse than Bernie. Low IQ. He's a low IQ individual. She happens to be really She really does. She has a very low IQ. (audience laughs) - This is bullshit, man. This is like when Elton John and then pretended &quot;Candle in the Wind&quot; was always about Diana. It wasn't! (audience laughs) Very disrespectful to Marilyn. (audience giggles) Too soon? (audience laughs) Here's the problem. Even when Trump does figure it's not really landing, the bad stuff he's saying about her applies even more to him. - If Kamala will lie to you so brazenly about Joe Biden's mental incapacity, then she will lie to you about anything. She can never ever be trusted. - Yes, Donald Trump is telling (audience laughs) Donald Trump is saying don't elect a liar. I mean, for God's sake, he's like the Michael Jordan of lying. Or, as Trump would say it, (audience laughs) And confuse them. Look, I had to say it, I don't think Trump has got it in him to go after Kamala Harris. He's been fighting Joe it's all he knows. He misses the fight so much. He was still workshopping nicknames for Joe Biden this weekend. - What do you like better, but what do you like better, Sleepy Joe or Crooked Joe? (audience laughs) - This is sad. It's like seeing an old man talking to an empty spot on the bench. And then you realize that's (audience laughs) He would give up everything with Crooked Joe. (audience laughs) - I hear he's gonna make it come back at the Democrat convention. He's gonna walk into the &quot;I want my presidency back. I want another chance to debate Trump. I want another chance.&quot; - He's not coming back. (audience laughs) He's not coming back, Donald. Hey, you know how I know We have a (beep) camera (audience laughs) He's just sitting there at the beach, having an Arnold Palmer. You can hear him sighing over the waves. (audience laughs) Does this look like a to take back the nomination or filming a Corona commercial? (audience laughs) He's finding his beach. It's over. There's only one way... Donald, meet me at camera one. (audience laughs and applauds) Hello, friend. (audience laughs) May I call you Donald? I get it. You wanted to Just two old dudes go (audience laughs) &quot;The Last Hurrah,&quot; &quot;Rocky Twelve.&quot; It's not fair. Now You've got to run against (audience laughs) and youthful and happy, her vigor standing as a stark counterpoint to whatever front butt (audience laughs) And it's pretty clear that what needs to be done to stop this steal. 'Cause someone I know loves Feeling me? Kamala Harris accepts the which means it may be time storm the convention pull in August 22nd! This time on behalf of Joe Biden. All you need is thousands of supporters who have not yet been sent to jail yet for being part of the last mob. Or got sent to jail so they're already out. (audience laughs) If only there was a sign of the - A federal judge ruling must return the spear and fur helmet belonging to QAnon Shaman, Jacob Chansley. - Shaman! Don thy fur helmet! We ride on! For Bidon! - Donald Trump is trying to but he also knows that sometimes Luckily, there's one place where all the far right mouth Twitter, or X if you're - Overnight, former president albeit glitch-filled conversation on X with its owner, Elon Musk. - Technical issues for more than 40 minutes. - Musk blaming a so-called saying the massive attack illustrates there's a lot of opposition to people just hearing what Though he provided no evidence - I think it's pretty This is the deep state. (audience laughs) - That's right. Only the deep state could (audience laughs) Just like they're to look like a DeLorean whose But if there's a deep state you suck at your job, okay? Because he is the opposite of silent. There is no one more unsilent Hey, deep state, look at me. Look at me. Do better. Do better. (audience laughs and cheers) But eventually they and got the conversation going. Although it sounded like from the Twitter servers - I want to close up move education back to the where states like Idaho, you know, not every state will do great. (audience laughs) - What is happening in his mouth? I know the guy's big on (audience applauds and cheers) He said it. And look, I know his but did Sylvester Trump over here just say that he wants to close the Think this through, where are you going to ban books from? Think, think. It's weird he's even talking to the gulag because Trump Like, proposal to end taxes on tips, which is so popular that that she supports it, and - No tax on tips, and all of a sudden, she's making a speech, and I said that months ago. Then all of a sudden, for politics, she comes out with what I said. (audience laughs) - Look, to be fair, Kamala on tips idea, which would make that a woman got credit (audience applauds and cheers) We did it, girls. And she didn't stop there. Kamala also completely ripped off his idea to lead in the polls by three points against a rapidly deteriorating candidate. That was his thing. That was his thing. Now, obviously, Trump did his during this interview, but that he took it in a surprising direction. - I have a picture of her She looks like the most It was a drawing. Actually, she looked very much like our great first lady, Melania. But of course, she's a beautiful woman, so we'll leave it at that. - Ooh, someone has a crush. (audience applauds and laughs) Ooh! Don, where did this come from? Did he have a sex dream about Kamala that he just can't shake and He can't focus on anything. He's just going through Time magazine looking for a centerfold. (audience laughs) Look, either way, I think we Trump is incapable of lying about. If he thinks someone is He'll lie about winning an election, but he has deep respect for (audience laughs) That's noble. That's a noble thing. But maybe my favorite part when Donald Trump told the story of how he threatened Vladimir in the most 1990s way. - I said to Vladimir Putin, You can't do it, Vladimir. You do it, it's going to be I told him things, that what I do. And he said, &quot;No way.&quot; I said, &quot;Way.&quot; (audience laughs) - No way. Way. Where have I heard that high-level diplomatic - No way. - Way. - Yes. &quot;Wayne's World.&quot; &quot;Wayne's World.&quot; (audience cheers) It's like &quot;Wayne's World,&quot; except the wigs have gotten a lot worse. (audience laughs) There's one thing we all it's that he's not a policy guy. He's more of a boobs guy, or a she'll-have-a-salad guy, or a Definitely not a policy guy. So last year, the Heritage Foundation put out a policy for him. It's called Project 2025, and It's really having a brat summer. (audience laughs) It's essentially a blueprint from a neutral bureaucracy And I'm going to be honest, But the most upsetded was Donald Trump. - Well, on Truth Social, Trump wrote, &quot;I know nothing about Project 2025. I have no idea who's behind it.&quot; - They come up with this, I It's Project 25. I don't know anything about it. I don't want to know anything about it. - Okay, now I'm suspicious, because the last time Trump said, &quot;I don't know anything about that,&quot; he was talking about Stormy Daniels. So did Trump (beep) Project 2025? (audience laughs and applauds) Trump has consistently said about Project 2025, but that might be hard - This week, we got new between Trump and Project 2025. Reporters for Documented and ProPublica obtained 14 hours worth from the group, and many have worked for Donald Trump - Hello, my name is Jeff Small. I was a presidential appointee - I am a former political appointee in the Donald J. Trump administration. - I served in the Trump administration. - Was on the Trump campaign team early on. - You stayed until the final hours. - During the Trump administration, I served as the Assistant at the Department of Homeland Security. (audience laughs) - Are you sure that you were at the Department of Homeland they brought in to throw (audience applauds) Because you say you're a Trump staffer, but you look like the last before he's thrown into So this guy worked in Can you imagine how often Mike Pence tried to confess to him? (audience laughs) &quot;Father, today I saw a pair The point is, 29 out of 36 worked for Trump. There is no way he You think he wouldn't who looks like ZZ Top joined a monastery? Anyone would remember meeting this guy. You're telling me he's got but not libertarian Gandalf? Come on, I don't think so. Look, I want to get to These are internal training videos for people who want to in the hopes of someday being kicked off &quot;Dancing with the Stars.&quot; But they won't just hire anyone. - If you've been convicted of a crime, you will not be serving Crimes such as fraud, show a lack of moral character. (audience laughs and applauds) (audience cheers) - Yeah, we'd hate to have work for the Trump administration. Go on. - To obtain employment in if you have accumulated debt - You might want to run this because it's starting to feel personal. No tax evasion, no bankruptcies, no one who had a cameo in &quot;Home Alone 2,&quot; and definitely, definitely nobody who constantly brings up Hannibal Lector like it's a real person. (audience laughs) But hiring standards aside, into Project 2025's agenda and policies. For a party that's who's against allegations that - Hi, I'm Katie Sullivan, and (audience laughs) - Are you sure? Because now that you &quot;Hi, I'm just a normal American woman, wearing normal woman's skin, Okay, you were being normal? - And just a normal American woman. But to the left, that ethnoimperialist, birthing - Oh, my God. Is every sentence going to be like this? I'm sitting in a chair, or a quad leg abled, upcycled, non-binary, wood-based booty ally. (audience laughs and applauds) Okay, got it. She doesn't have pronouns. But that's all culture war stuff. What about something less like climate change? And remember, don't make it weird. - Climate change, This is an issue to pay attention to as it has infiltrated every Now, when I think of climate change, I immediately think of (audience laughs) - No. No, I don't. No, I don't think of population control when I think of climate I think of forest fires and Smoky Bear in his tight little bear bod, What makes these videos plans to remake the into an organ the conservative movement. But because they know they're also teaching the - What you probably want to do is if you need to resolve something, you're probably better off getting a cup of coffee, and making the decision, as and creating a thread that accountable.us, or one of those other groups and you're going to have to explain why you're withholding it, and you're going to fight in court. It's going to be a lot of expense. It's an email that's better - Mm, yeah. Yeah, I got you. No paper trail. You're Sound, audio, we're rolling? By the way, this video might to a breaching halt, because I don't care how badly if you have to physically to do that, that, ugh (beep) that, no. No, let him have the Yesterday, he announced that he would give a major policy speech on the economy, which is a big change for him. Although you could tell he - Now, this is a little bit different day, because this is we're talking about a thing called the economy. I wanted to do a speech on the economy. A lot of people are very with inflation and all So we're doing this as You're all intellectuals today. Today we're doing it. And (audience laughs) - All right, I guess we're doing it. We're doing it right now. Now he understands what when they slept with him. (audience laughs and applauds) &quot;Let's just get it over with right now. Just right now.&quot; I mean, Trump's crowd had to because they were there for a Trump rally, not an intellectual speech. That's like logging onto PornHub I mean, I'm still gonna jerk off to it, it's just gonna take longer. But with just 81 days Trump needs to focus on the issue. So let's hear this intellectual focused - Crooked Joe, he didn't Remember Joe? What kind of ice cream is Oh, I like vanilla. That - Okay, I guess you gotta warm up first. You can't just jump Start by attacking the guy you're not even running against anymore. But now that you're - You getting out now, Joe, or we can do it the hard way. And he's getting out. He's getting out. In fact, they're not even You know, when he is speaking on Monday? Monday is not the... That's the worst day. (audience laughs) - Monday is the worst day? (audience laughs and applauds) Come on, Joe Biden is Let's focus on your current opponent. - Barack Hussein Obama. - Oh my God. Oh my God. (audience laughs) Girl, you gotta move on. He does not think about you. Okay? Your current opponent is Kamala Harris. Say something substantive - That's the laugh of a crazy If you haven't noticed. It's a crazy. She's crazy. That's the laugh of a person (audience laughs) - Yeah, yeah. Kamala's the Definitely. Also, it is so inappropriate Women are supposed to laugh. (audience laughs and applauds) You know what? You win. Just talk about whatever the - And now they're putting her with an artist sketch. They don't use a picture, I want to use that artist. I like him very much. (audience laughs) - Donald, do you really I feel like you have plenty of sketches. (audience laughs and applauds) Look, I hate to nitpick, but in this speech about the economy, do you think at any something about the economy? - I did have something I I don't know if you've Oh, I have it. I do have it. Look at this. Look at this. So this is Tic Tacs, right? (audience laughs) - Yes. I mean, they So they might be roofies, but okay. For the sake of the What does that have to - But that's what happened. This is Tic Tac. This is Tic. This is inflation. This I just happened to have, I said, &quot;I think we'll put it up as an example of inflation.&quot; - That is not an example of inflation. It's just two different I mean, my understanding of but I do know for a (beep) fact that inflation is not defined as big Tic Tac, little Tic Tac. Jesus Christ. (audience applauds) And by the way, Donald, if they're not suggesting They're suggesting you take a breath mint. (upbeat music)