Cameras present a scene from a particular point we interpret a scene. An eye level view is a an overview of the layout, while close-ups This file contains the bedroom we were working on file there are no cameras since we will place them click on the first icon, Create Corona Camera. Go back wall to place the camera, drag the mouse and Let me repeat it, not just click, but click release it the target is placed. To delete this the keyboard. Another way if you are not using Go to the Command Panel, click on the With the Standard category selected, click After placing the camera, the first thing we to show the camera view. To do so, click in click on the viewport's name label, Perspective, The camera submenu appears and shows Select CoronaCamera001 since The viewport now shows the CoronaCamera001 point of view. At a first glance the point of view we get in our example looks odd since one The reason the point of view looks like this placed at a height of 0 cm. So, if check where the camera is positioned. We will So, the next step is to select and elevate the viewport to another, always right-click to activate selected. If you left-click, the new viewport will Going back to the camera we created, a CoronaCamera consists of two elements - the Camera and the Camera Target and those two are connected Camera is selected, we can also see the Field-of-View which is the area inside this triangle. If we deselect the camera, here are a few ways on The select from scene dialog box appears which scene. Scroll down to find and select the camera one of them and then select the other one by Another way is to click on the cameras and from the drop down menu choose And a third way is to click directly from the If we click on the line that connects the it is difficult to select a camera from the An easy way to select specific types is by The Selection Filter list lets us restrict When the Selection Filter is ALL, we can If for instance we click on ALL and choose Cameras, and the other objects in the scene freeze. If you see in the Name and Color field that the camera you select the target it is named CoronaCamera001.Target. By selecting both the camera and the target, the Name and Color input changes to 1 we see its point of view in the viewport, and we There are two different ways that we can do that - Navigation Controls. To activate the Select and Click on the Select and Move command from the Right click and choose Move from the Quad menu. Click on the y-axis, the green arrow, and The CoronaCamera001 viewport updates If we want to place the camera at a specific to use the Coordinate Display in the Status Bar. Z field down here, and type 120. Then select the the Z field and type 120. Now both the camera Make sure Show Safe Frames is enabled. see a zoomed part of the bedroom. But this We have completed placing the camera so now we will see how we can achieve the Let's select and delete this camera and place it go to the Top viewport, click hold and drag to target is placed. Go to the Perspective viewport, Camera001. The viewport changes to the when we place a camera, it Is by default placed to elevate it. At the bottom left corner of the display and navigation of the viewports. The active viewport. When we change to a camera Camera Viewport Controls. With the CoronaCamera001 viewport active, click on the second command from the bottom row, Truck Camera. This command target parallel to the view plane since we only hold down the Shift key to constrain the movement If here you don't see the Truck command, click to pop up. Select Truck camera. While you use the down the Shift key to constrain the movement to the camera or the camera target selected to use + Target command to move the camera along its is pointing at. If you hold down the dolly camera either move the camera, Dolly camera or its target, The Truck and the Dolly commands are basically From the Navigation Controls, there are two more If you click on the Maximize Viewport command, you If you click again, you return to the four window Selected command. Select for instance the bed and The viewports zoom into the selected object. Well all the viewports apart from the camera If we go to the Top viewport to see where the right in front of the wall. Although we have see a zoomed part of it. To capture more, the first camera. Select the camera, go to the Modify tab Please be careful, to see the camera settings camera, not the camera Target or both. Go to Sensor and Lens section, we define how wide the Focal Length. The lower this value, the wider Type 30 and press enter. If we see the camera bac,k but we did not move the camera. The lens Now we have a better understanding of the room The lower the focal length, the more items it to look distorted. The objects in the foreground I usually avoid using focal length values lower I will keep the default value of 40 millimeters of the room, we will use the camera clipping. When which is this white triangle. And that helps us the camera viewport you can see that this triangle clothes. If we want to see them, we need to push the But when we push the camera that back, we are the camera viewport is this wall. But that's fine clipping. With the CoronaCamera001 Scroll down and open the Environment and Clipping Viewport checkboxes. Camera Clipping allows us to a certain portion of the scene. This portion is name denotes in the Near value, we set the distance Far value we set the distance from the camera More specifically, if we type 100 cm in indicates the starting point of the camera. At 100 cm, I'm still outside the house. So, I will increase more the Near value, until the near At approximately 200 cm I can now see the Isn't this great This feature is super useful able to capture the full room. If we zoom out, we this value is, as long as the far clipping plane If for instance, we decrease the far value and at 500 cm, you can see the result we the part of the scene that is between the value to include the full room. One thing you plane intersects an object, it cuts through that So that you can understand that, select Now it cuts the bed, the rug and the floor Let's readjust the near value. Now the Camera and the Camera Target Let's see what happens if we place them at say that we want to see more of the floor. click on the name of the viewport, CoronaCamera001 and choose Select Camera Target. Click on the blue arrow which represents the see is that the view gets distorted. To avoid this, to return to the original target position. Scroll down to find the Tilt and Shift The view no longer gets distorted. now that we have set the camera let's next step is to go to the Post tab in the settings we mentioned in the previous video in simple terms depth of field allows us to focus let's set another camera that will either create a new camera from scratch or to do so select the camera and the Target by the select and move command hold down the shift created when you leave the cursor the Clone create a copy of the camera that has a separate effect on the other if we choose instance we if we modify the instanced object let's say it's change as well the refense option is a bit more case we will select copy since we don't want the corona camera 001 viewport and choose to see the camera closer to the nightstand and then I will I will adjust its position until to enable dof go to the camera settings check the enable box in the depth of field section if we press render although we have enabled the dof we don't see because first we need to do some adjustments the F number is the setting that controls with the position of the camera and the and low F number means blurred renders now the area of focus is the book The background the elements behind the camera Target if we select the camera Target let's say at the wall lamp and render now the point of focus is the wall lamp and all the foreground gets blurry the more we increase the F number the we make it 2 the less blurry at F number 16 which was the so when you want to use dof first and then play with the F number to instead of changing the camera Target enable the override Focus option and set where so here the point of focus will be the that's all with the cameras and now we are ready