June 11, 1969, Ba Ria city, Vung Tau province, A newbie tunnel rat arrived at the base to Just days earlier a platoon was hit by a M16 It got that name for the way it jumped in It killed three men and injured 24 others. Not long after the hidden enemy laid an anti-personnel A personnel carrier hit that mine. It was the first time that the unseasoned It was chaos, each and every day. He had to learn fast. The number one tunnel rat, nickname Yogi, Bits were hanging off him as he told the newbie This was not a job for the faint of heart, That story is true. It happened to a combat engineer in the Australian He took on one of the hardest and scariest We'll get back to his story, but first let's Prior to the Americans going to war with the from 1946 to 1954. During that time, the Viet Minh learned a To beat someone far more powerful than yourself, One of those tactics was keeping below ground, a massive complex of tunnels. When the Americans arrived in 1955 the tunnels that really made them a feat of engineering. During the Vietnam War, or the American War tunnels for all kinds of things. While the opening to the tunnels was small that would lead to large underground spaces. It was within these spaces that the Viet Cong on their enemy. The tunnels served as headquarters, hospitals, Since they had ventilation systems it was period of time. So, we are not so much talking about men burrowing world. These worlds provided safety from the hostiles. Like snakes, men would come out of them in back in the tunnel. That's how so many American and Australian soldiers that were rarely seen above ground. It was actually an Australian combat engineering tunnel rats. The Americans later joined them, but we don't Just imagine it. They find the entrance but have no idea where down there. There wasn't only the threat of humans to Vietnam is in the tropics and the tropics Have you ever seen a Vietnamese Giant Centipede? Those fast-moving prehistoric-looking creatures known to man...and guess what...they too like Then there were the snakes, the highly venomous the King Cobra, and a whole host of other day. Then soldiers had to deal with ants' nests, as well as spiders that weren't generally So, you can imagine that going into one of getting into Ted Bundy's Volkswagen Beetle. But they had to do it, lest more men get blown If the men could infiltrate the tunnels they they would usually come across a stash of There was another problem concerning arms. The tunnels were small, and so that meant guns down them. They were usually only equipped with a M1911 They'd also have a flashlight, a knife, blow up whatever they found down there. You can just picture it. A man crawling through the darkness, his flashlight He crawls and crawls, and then he sees the He shoots, and then all he can hear is a ringing He's blinded by the flash and deafened by Then the earth above his head starts to fall. He needs to get out, fast. What he doesn't know is that the Viet Cong Poisonous gas, and this tunnel rat didn't time he wore one he could barely see. If the gas doesn't get him, the flood will. The Viet Cong designed this particular tunnel be infiltrated. Other times the tunnel might just collapse, of poor construction. You'd have to be crazy to do this job. You also had to be short. Imagine a hulk of a man with quite the belly Soldiers that were picked for the job were It was the same years later when the U.S. in the Afghanistan War. Yep, tunnel rats weren't only a thing in But let's stay with Vietnam for now and He was trained at the Australian Army's He actually thought that this line of study doing more engineering. He was wrong. He was being trained to become a tunnel rat. That meant learning about things such as mine stuff up and learning how to get through tunnels. When he arrived in Vietnam he walked into As we said, one of the first things he saw a jumping Jack mine. Three bodies were outfitted with body bags He said those M16 mines were everywhere and What the Viet Cong did was store them in the So, each day was a new day, and there was around. That's why the tunnel rat had such an important Find where the mines were stored and blow When he started the job, he worked as tunnel He worked in a pair with tunnel rat number number one and he was joined by a newbie. He hadn't been a number two for long when Yogi had stood on a mine. Yogi was alive, but as you can imagine, he In fact, only three Australians that stood and lives intact. Yogi was one of them. He was lucky. The fatality rate in his unit was 33 percent. That's one reason why going into tunnels The Americans wanted to destroy the tunnels If you dropped enough bombs on suspected tunnels, would suffocate. If you sprayed poisonous gasses into them You could also try and flood the area where enemy. The problem was that these efforts didn't The reason for that was the fact that the They made them blast proof, flood proof and effective. They also made them in a zig-zag shape to This is why the tunnel rat was indispensable. Those guys were the only thing that really Believe it not, most American soldiers were Most soldiers thought you'd have to be out and snakes were one thing, but suffocation nightmare. So, why did they volunteer? One soldier back then said it was sometimes Soldiers did it to show others just how tough He said that many tunnel rats had had problematic to show that they could be useful. And useful they were, as well as brave. One tunnel rat named CW Bowman said that his the job. He said they took bets each time he went into die. Some men almost did, and this would become We'll get around to that soon. Let's first take you through a mission. You shoot first and ask questions later. This was the mantra of the tunnel rat. Anything they came across they shot at. They would usually fire only three bullets The reason for this was the enemy wouldn't Let's say the mission was successful, that what was hidden down there. What would they find? On one mission the tunnel was around 120 feet At the end of the tunnel the rat found places As for items, he discovered 8 rifle grenades, all of which was destroyed. On another mission the tunnel rat found cameras, and ammunition. There was still a problem, though, and that were successful, the Americans still had problems You can take out one tunnel, but there will This is a quote from Ho Chi Minh, the president men for every one we kill of yours. But even at those odds, you will lose, and Take for instance the use of booby traps, percent of American soldiers during the war. Sometimes the Viet Cong would put a Punji These were holes filled with sharpened bamboo When a soldier stood on the trap the spikes have been daubed with poison or feces. The soldier would then scream out but he wouldn't This was the point, because the Viet Cong Not only were there often more traps down an injured man off sharp sticks and dragging The Viet Cong would later say that the Americans injured comrades that they had lots of time do next. The sheer horror of those traps were also This is what Ho Chi Minh was referring to He was right, too. There were other kinds of traps. A tunnel rat might have hit a trip wire while on him. There's a story of a tunnel rat that popped a spear that went through his neck. At other times the Viet Cong made traps like Jones movie. A man could hit a tripwire in a tunnel and come flying at him. A lieutenant named Jack Flowers said that trap. His comrade went into a tunnel and that man After that a box full of scorpions rained Snakes were also used. Sometimes the Viet Cong would place them in When the soldier hit the bamboo, the snake They scared the hell out of soldiers, some because after you were bitten you only had That might be a bit of an exaggeration, but with scorpions and snakes. Flowers went into over 100 tunnels. He later said this about those expeditions, like a river. I swear I could hear my heart beating. You`d feel your way along for booby traps. It got so you could sense them. The same for VC. You could smell another human being in the You knew he was waiting for you in the dark." All these horrors that the Viet Cong created to be a tunnel rat wasn't exactly on every But someone had to do it, they had to do it This is what one American said about men hiding happened in the night and we never saw what Nobody ever knew where these guys were coming They had to go down every tunnel they could the night. It created tremendous psychological stress down tunnel rats was some peace of mind. There were successful tunnel campaigns such but in the end the Viet Cong proved to be While American soldiers were literally having the Vietnamese soldiers were at home in them. If the tunnels were destroyed, they just built The Americans had the task of Sisyphus, pushing As for the fate of the tunnel rats, there but it's thought most of them succumbed Vietnamese subterrane. Out of the 100 or so tunnel rats in the American of those tunnels back on American soil. One of those men was Jack Flowers. He later said, "Why did we do it? I wasn't a tough guy. Nobody who knows me would ever suspect I could I`d never want a son of mine to have to do Thank God, he said, that these days men don't Now you should watch this video, "The Insanely Or have a look at this, "Mad Jack - A Real