(engine whirs) - Whoop, come on. - He's the man with the plan a race car driver with He took on Ferrari in one of the most a war hero that survived in World War II, a smart mouth wrencher with skills like no other on the track. He's the unsung hero of Ford's championship-winning Le Mans team. This is everything you need on Teddy Teabag, Mister Sidebite himself, Ken Miles! (upbeat music) Guys, I wanna send a huge for sponsoring this very If you haven't seen the movie yet, you really, really have to. It's a must see for Donut fans. The story of Ford versus Ferrari is one of the best ever in cars. I mean, we're practically We did a four-part series on our podcast, which is like almost five hours long. We've done two episodes And while most people probably know who Carroll Shelby is by now, and probably know who Henry it's a shame that a lot of people probably don't know who Ken Miles, one of the baddest dudes The first three minutes of this movie are some of the most that I've ever seen in a movie. The way they shot the A lot of the guys' sons, drove in the film. So please, do yourself a favor. Get Ford versus Ferrari on digital now and Blu-ray, February 11. I'm so stoked that studios And the only way that movies like this, movies Kenneth Henry Miles was in the Royal town of The son of Eric Miles and Clarice Jarvis, Ken was such a badass he to be freakin' born in. He was birthed in the living room of his grandfather's house. And continuing this life of being shweet, when he was 11, he begged his 350cc Triumph Trials bike. Why was an 11-year-old hanging out with a guy who owned a motorcycle? Now the Triumph gave him the rush of going fast on the pavement and also taught him what because on his way home one left behind by some road menders and wrapped his buddy's breaking his 11-year-old nose and knocking out three of his teeth. Why is this 11-year-old And by time he was 15, he had that he converted into a special. That means he built it into He was too young to go but that didn't stop him from and future wife, Molly to paint the car in British racing green. While Miles had a knack for working on all things mechanical, he struggled in school. After a thwarted attempt the 16-year-old dropped out of school to take an apprenticeship Now I've barely even heard of Wolseley, but apparently, they used to be one of the largest Miles started his apprenticeship in 1934, and his first position was sweeping floors. But over time, he moved up the ladder, from a fabricator to the assembly line. During that time, he drove on a Velocette motorcycle. Fun fact, Velocette was a small that still holds a record Venom motorcycle for running 24 hours at an average pace of Can you freaking, can you imagine that? And Miles rode it like a race bike. He ended up having to sell after getting his license Well, he was speeding, and On the heels of completing just eight weeks later, and Miles was shipped off to war like many young men of his generation. Just like at Wolseley, he started his army career at the bottom. He first worked in an anti-aircraft unit before being transferred where he taught soldiers He was then transferred of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. Unlike his primary school days, he excelled in the engineering courses and graduated with the freakin' valedictorian of his army. His ability to understand and ability to work on them in a tank reconnaissance Not only did he operate and He stormed the beaches of After the war, Miles retired from the army as a staff sergeant, went as a toolmaker, and more (door opens) He started racin'. The car that brought him the was a Frazer Nash equipped Hell's bells, baby. The combination of a lightweight, with a high horsepower American engine made it a great race car. In his first race at Silverstone, he placed second in It was only one month later that Miles got his first taste of victory in the Prescott Hill Climb. While working with a friend Miles was offered a job for Go Industries in Southern California. Go was the main distributor for MG and Morris cars in the western US. Their general manager had previously worked with Miles in England and knew that his skill made him the perfect person for the job. So Miles accepted the position and moved his family Hmm. Every time I drive down PCH, I'm a little bit proud of myself. Within four months of Ken started racing stateside. His first outing was at Pebble Beach in a Go-supplied MG TD Midget. He took the bone stock MG a feat that Road and Track In his off time, Miles chased perfection by working on his own custom MG, the R1. The R1 was designed by Miles, was built using stock MG and Morris parts. The hand-rolled, all aluminum body and a custom 1,500cc engine made the car quite zippy for the time. With Miles behind the every single race they entered That's a lot of winning. Miles sold the car to Sy on his new creation, aptly Now, the Shingle was similar to the R1 but with changes to the and even the angle at which all things Ken engineered The envelope body with flared fenders that went over the front and rear wheels made the R2 unmistakable on the track. To promote the MG brand, the front had an MG style It's kinda like NASCAR today. It's like not actually a Ford but it's got the badges Early in the R2's career, Miles only to be disqualified So he fixed the fenders in the pits and won the consolation The day after, he raced main event again and beat none other than the rebel without a Ken's time with Go ended so he went to work with John von Neumann, racing Porsche Spiders. Just north of San Diego was that was about to be which is lame. Race cars rule. Golf carts sorta rule. The track was having one last and Miles entered with his new Porsche. In his first time in the German Luckily for him, von Neumann so he was able to get Smart move on Neumann's part because during Sunday's main event, 35,000 spectators watched Miles pilot the German sports car to win. The closest car was 16 seconds behind it. But in those days, the top were invited to race in the over 1,500cc modified main class. As the winner of Sunday semi main, Miles finished third in the big boy class from the back of the pack, with the best of them. The dude would race for an hour, win, take a quick breather to work on his car, then go race for another hour with faster cars and still podium? Are you freakin' kidding me? I recorded a podcast this Ken drove a Bobtail Cooper soon after racing Porsche Spiders. A Cooper with a Porsche engine at the time was called a Pooper, obviously, The Pooper with Miles behind the wheel dominated SCCA's West Coast But because Miles was racing who was a major distributor the Porsche boys in Germany They didn't like that a Porsche dealer was sponsoring a driver who beat factory-built even if it did have a And quite frankly, I see So he left the von Neumann camp to race for Bob Estes and Otto Zipper. Names back in the '50s James Pumphrey. (blows raspberry) Otto Zipper. (blows raspberry) Zipper bought a Porsche RS as a package deal with the From '58 to '63, Miles won 38 in his number 50 Porsche. The '60s came around and Miles started his opening up his own tuning called Ken Miles Limited. Now, he was an amazing mechanic, and he's obviously an But unfortunately, he wasn't And after moving the the IRS caught up with mister (laid back band music) When you don't pay your taxes, the IRS finds you and Luckily for him, all that had already caught the by the name of-- - My name is Carroll Shelby, - So a little side note here. Miles was known to be outspoken I can relate. And he was once banned from for discourteous and I think that the guy just marched to the beat of his own drum, and all these freaking But whatever he did to hire him as a competition manager. And before he joined the Shelby outfit, the Cobras were not very successful. While he was never hired to be a driver, Carroll Shelby could not ignore the fact that Miles was the best Miles knew how to make the cars better. He knew how to do it himself. He was like Zach Jobe. Only a year after being Miles became the chief test As Carroll Shelby describes it, Miles was the heart and Miles helped turn the Cobra into the legend that it is today. (engine whirs) He achieved a cult-like status as one of the most prolific keyword, private. Regardless of the amount he was never chosen by a factory until the Ford GT came around. In 1965, Shelby was tasked of building the GT 40 for Ford Two years orlier, orlier? - [Announcer] See if you don't think this is the most exciting the Corvette Stingray. - The Corvette was the and Ford had nothing comparable. One way they wanted to drum up sales was to win the most prestigious race in the history of racing, my favorite, the 24 Hours of Le Mans. The problem was Ford had zero At the time, Ferrari were and they just happened to be Henry Ford II, aka Hank the Deuce, wanted to buy the Italian manufacturer, effectively gaining them with one swish of a big old pen. The deal looked imminent, but in the 11th hour, Ferrari backed out and left Ford with his Hank the Deuce vowed - I don't care what it costs. We're gonna build a race car. - A new division was formed to It was called the Advanced Sick. After months of grueling 12-hour the GT40 was finally completed. The team had three GT40s Ken Miles wasn't behind the wheel of any of them at this point. While GT40s were crashing finished fourth overall At the end of the race, none while Ferrari finished It was a disastrous beginning Ford noticed that Shelby with their Daytona coupe, they announced to the world that they were teaming up with Shelby, not only on the build but also to race all of Ford set its sights on using the GT40 to win the big three the Daytona Continental 2000 the 12 Hours of Sebring In the mother of them all, boy, the 24 Hours of Le Mans in June. Shelby got a new space Unlike his old two-car garage in Venice, which is right there, right over there, the new plant stretched bordering Los Angeles which is right over there. The site had two hangars that were used by North American Aviation It's only fitting that the car meant to do battle against in the same place that Using computers mounted inside the car and scotch tape and yarn on the outside, they found 76 horsepower was being lost due to inefficient air ducting. By just changing the What power, baby? Where have you been? Oh, you know, doin' stuff. Ken Miles and co-driver Lloyd Ruby drove the new and improved GT40 to victory in the 2,000-kilometer Daytona race, beating Ferrari and Next on the list was Ferrari backed out of the race because, well, he didn't wanna lose again. And Ken Miles and Bruce McLaren won the GTP class in the GT40. Yes, that Bruce McLaren. Finally, the GT40 looked on their list, the 24 Hours of Le Mans. The start of the race went Immediately, the two GT40 followed by Ferrari chasing them at nearly 195 miles per By 38 minutes in, they were Then, the transmissions At 8 p.m., Bruce McLaren to switch driving duties with Miles. And as soon as Miles pulled out, the car shredded its Soon after, the other Mark The race Ford desperately wanted to win wasn't gonna happen. After that defeat, Ford created A group of roughly 20 until the next race to brainstorm ideas and solutions that would help Hank the Deuce decided the would be to divide the Le Mans effort into two separate teams, and Holman Moody with his NASCAR team. - Hey, how come these guys - They got a goddamn - The in-house competition with Miles behind the wheel. They won the 24-hour and the 12 Hours of Sebring again, setting Miles up for the Triple Crown if he could win at Le Mans. That would make Miles the first driver to ever pull that off. The 1966 running of didn't go as smoothly as they had hoped. The race used to begin with running across the track before It's called a Le Mans start. But as Miles got into his seat, he slammed his helmet on He was forced into the pits after only one lap to fix his door, which put him in last place. But doing what miles did back to first place! With the race about to from scoring the Triple Crown. But just winning wasn't good enough. The GT40s were in first, second and third. And Hank the Deuce wanted a crossing the finish line the dominance of the GT40 at Le Mans. I mean, he clawed his to get into first. And only minutes away from winning the biggest race in the world, he was told to let second place catch up. That's absurd! The guy was a hothead. He had a reputation, but he So he slowed down to let the and they all finished together. It was obvious to everyone and earned his Triple Crown that day, but the Le Mans rules state that if a race ends in a dead heat, the driver who started further back at the beginning of the race So Bruce McLaren and his 20 feet behind Miles and his teammate. And this meant that Miles was second. - [Announcer] Here is a clarification. Though the drivers finished McLaren has been ruled the winner. - The team appealed the official rules and argued that Miles should have won, but the rules is rules. But being the good sport that, and great team player that he was, when he met up with McLaren at the pits, he grabbed him and he gave him a hug. He even told reporters, &quot;Please be careful how &quot;I work for these people. &quot;They've been awfully good to me.&quot; The journalists were for allowing their champion out of his win on a because Ken asked them. But Ken Miles did the most (engine whirs) He started testing the called the J-car to prepare On August 17th, 1966, (sighs) Miles spent the morning tearing up Riverside International the car veered sharply to the right and took flight as it tumbled First responders were almost and they found Miles laying on his back more than 15 feet away from the car. The crash was so violent that his seat belt had ejecting him from the cockpit. Now, news of the crash made with one simple phrase. Ken Miles is dead. His obituary in Road and Track magazine stated that no one who knew that the accident resulted Shelby made a final statement He said, &quot;We really don't &quot;The car just disintegrated. &quot;We have nobody to take his place. &quot;Nobody. &quot;He was our baseline, our guiding point. &quot;He was the backbone of our program. &quot;There will never be another Ken Miles.&quot; If you wanna know more about Ken Miles and his amazing Le Mans Get Ford versus Ferrari on digital now and Blu-ray February 11th. It's a really awesome telling Thank you again to Ford versus Ferrari for helping us tell the and thank you guys for If you're not already subscribed, go hit that subscribe button and that bell so you don't miss any of our videos. We're trying to get to the point where we're putting one out every day. Did you see the movie? Let me know what you liked How did we do in our coverage? Remember to tell people that And as always, I love you.