"There's something I'm finding out as I'm So, in 2023, the BBC put out its books of all time. They polled 177 having each of them make a top 10 list of the and the top 100 were those that received Perhaps it wouldn't surprise you to learn that Are by Maurice Sendak. This award-winning book so it's more than likely that you've come my grandma read this book to me as the only one. It was all too likely that my But before writing this video, years book. I hadn't truly experienced it since nor did I watch it for this video since on the literature. Despite having no I still remembered it quite well, which also But as with the work of men like Shel Silverstein book might resonate differently with me I picked up my own copy of the book and I to the book itself and my impressions, let's Death was a very unfortunate reality for Sendak Jewish immigrant parents from Poland. They managed but many extended family members Moreover, Sendak suffered from diphtheria, There was a very real possibility that he would He credited this awareness of mortality with his favorite memories came from looking out would tell him that, if he was lucky, and out the window. Each day that he didn't see it, If you've followed my videos for some time, but Where the Wild Things Are was panned found the book too dark and scary for messages of rebellion. That, plus the led many officials to ban the book in schools reception from a portion of the public, which marked it as the most distinguished One thing that shocked me upon rereading the book since there isn't much text, and since how about I just read the whole thing so that Where the Wild Things Are by Maurice Sendak The night Max wore his wolf suit and another his mother called him "WILD THING!" so he was sent to bed without eating anything. That very night in Max's room a forest grew and grew-- and grew until his ceiling hung with vines and an ocean tumbled by and he sailed off through the night and day and in and out of weeks to where the wild things are. And when he came to the place they roared their terrible roars and rolled their terrible eyes till Max said "BE STILL!" of staring into all their yellow and they were frightened and called and made him king of all the wild things. "Now stop!" Max said and sent without their supper. And Max the and wanted to be where Then all around from far away across the world so he gave up being king of But the wild things cried, "Oh please don't go-- we'll eat you up--we love you so!" The wild things roared their terrible and rolled their terrible eyes but Max stepped into his and sailed back over a year and in and out of weeks and into the night of his very own room and it was still hot. Now, before I jump into any analysis, remember be taken as a definitive reading. There's not uncommon in most children's a wide breadth of interpretation and that away from anyone. So just remember that When my grandma read the book to me as a child, Max imagined the whole book in his head. but Sendak gives us some clues that the lived. For one thing, we see a piece of a creature that's vaguely similar to almost all there's Max's wolf costume, which feels ways. There's also the tent he sets up, not Moreover, after Max has sailed back to his room, journey, certainly, but it could also be that his room without him noticing. And more probable across the ocean would be his unconscious I do have to point out that the moon took on his room. So, there's this interesting Take a look at this. This is just the text of the on the same pages. Kind of looks like a poem, no? word "and." This is something I actually try and gets too repetitive. I think a lot of modern poets opt to use the ampersand instead of "and." less like prose while also taking away some of But here, Sendak's repeated use of the conjunction child making something up as they go along. we assume that Max is. His journey to where one that he's probably just making I think anyone who's read Where the Wild and self-expression as some of the work's big his imagination, it's worth noting how each wild none of the wild things seem all but almost all of them have unique one that looks like a goat, one with a scaly lower and on and on. If Max conjured all of this in While writing this video, a coworker saw me kindergarten teacher and told me that it was his the kids thought of the book and he told me they it was scary. To paraphrase him, it's the first While it might scare them in some capacity, they whether it truly happened to Max or not within so significant in that - being a child's first As a character, Max probably clicks with child we see that Max is highly expressive and his creative outlets are rather destructive. He drives nails through the wall, chases his Readers both young and old can probably his room. And while it might seem easy to just as Penn State explains, there are so many it could be an issue of youth, strong Speaking of Max's needs, it's rather cruel for As The Button Law Firm explains, "Withholding of prohibited punishment. Doing so can cause who might associate punishments with eating and daycares that withhold food, but most people from children as a form of punishment is abusive, Where the Wild Things Are certainly does at least on this most recent reading, the more When Max first arrives to the place where the quote, "the magic trick of staring into once." This causes the creatures to call where could Max have learned a trick no? How many of us have had our parents stare us And so, if such a skill makes Max "the make Max's mother? As much as Max's she also indulges and encourages some of his wild The staring magic trick isn't the only behavior only assume that was a learned behavior, After the wild rumpus, Max "sent the wild things a learned behavior. He does it because he's now figure to emulate. He knows it's what an authority And even though he seemingly enacts this I'd argue the reason is stated right there lonely and wanted to be where someone loved beginning of the book, Max's decision here more like acting out due to his emotions. He's and acting accordingly, even if it seems mother's example shows that he looks up to tumultuous their relationship might be And how significant is it that, even as he can still smell his mother's supper from across fun he could have among the wild things, he gives indeed, upon returning home, he finds his The dinner waiting in Max's room is significant level of regret from Max's mother. She must've to rectify her actions. That doesn't justify humanizes Max's mother, doesn't it? Like, I don't regret the things they say or do when their child In that sense, Max and his mother are sort They both treated each other poorly. While at him first. She lost her temper. But they about each other. In Max's case, he realizes she loves him best of all. His mother's case She realizes that she loves him best of all, It's also significant that, in the context of from across the sea. Sometimes, we refer to things that often fall under that category are direct metaphor for his mother's love for him. all borders, all divides. It reaches out to Max doesn't smell his dinner until he realizes missing some much-needed love. And, this is an a true home is wherever you're As I write this script, I can't help but be tale is one of Jesus' most famous parables shared the story of a young man who leaves his father's and he spends it all on a life of indulgence. deliberation and harsh conditions, he decides In the King James version of the Bible, and came to his father. But when he was and had compassion, and ran, and 21 And the son said unto him, Father, I have and am no more worthy to be called thy son. 22 But the father said to his and put it on him; and put a ring 23 And bring hither the fatted calf, and 24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. So, despite the way the son tried to live his and left home, his father welcomed him back with notes of love in the story is the context behind that the Pharisees and scribes criticized the In the parable of the prodigal son, Heavenly Father would receive His children, I'm not saying Sendak intended an allusion similarities between the stories. It's like I something seems like a religious allusion doesn't what both stories point out is that good parents especially when the kids are ready to And as a final note on Max's arc and remember the straw that broke the camel's back. at his mother, "I'll eat you up!" When Max leaves to stay. They say, "Oh please don't go--we'll eat Max realizes that "I'll eat you up," isn't exactly But you know, as I reread this book as an Max's father? He's never mentioned in the He could be working while Max's mother is a book for the first time since I was a kid, I for divorce. And remember, don't take this In fiction, there's a trope called if any character mentions that their unseen parent will eventually maybe in Animorphs or The Babysitters Club. But In the show, Manny Delgado initially played by the forever underrated Benjamin Bratt. always treats Manny to a good time. However, To me, it felt as though the wild things were divorce and his mom is his primary caregiver, it's fun but not when it's most important. but he recognizes that none of them love him Max's parents aren't divorced, this could still But if his parents are divorced, that would and being a single parent would make Again, I don't even mean to say that this is reading. But for other readings, let's refer Cathy Lowne writing for Britannica asserts for children about why their parents "Explains the purpose of 'time-outs,' and teaches them to channel their tempers agree with this. While depriving Max of his and giving him a chance to cool down was probably but he arguably learned a lesson all on his To that point, a friend of mine supposed that it to him. They did still, however, acknowledge that even if it wasn't their true plan. Threatening same issues that actually withholding the get fed in the end. Whatever the thoughts had the right idea in creating some space for On Literary Hub, Liam Heneghan hones in on "It underscores an element of distance human community--wilderness can be solitary. wild things and provides a realization that notion of wilderness, there is a heightened one can, or perhaps even should, return, In this sense, we could almost read vs. nurture. As appealing as it might be to we all require loving nourishment from to confront the wild - whether material A lot of people, including Heneghan, seem to view he notes how often the book is read aloud to art of oral storytelling. Since the book many analysts opt to look at it through the In an interview on NPR's Fresh Air, books were about overcoming fear. but that his main intention when writing anything Sendak acknowledged that fear was an important Hoover vacuum cleaner his mother used. a reasonable man, though, he did blame his In fact, Sendak said he based the wild things off each Sunday night. However, he didn't realize according to Gross, Sendak told her grotesque creatures to him" as a child. Sendak recognized that he became rather monstrous as most strangers are to youth. At a book from a child to sign it, and the child Sendak thought it was the bravest thing he'd child felt embarrassed and Sendak pulled him While Sendak was brought up kosher, he described He loved his memories of practicing Judaism, the dead, but he said he had no need for faith. Herman Melville, and Emily Dickinson, with her who have gotten me through the narrow a couple of Dickinson's trademark dashes at the Sendak saw his parents as vulnerable. He knew weren't exactly capable of fending off his death. observation. They spoke more Yiddish than English, Only late into their lives did they learn English, His father came to America chasing after his specifically to get her away from the man because of that impulse decision on his father's as did his wife, but to a lesser extent choosing to go to America. While the husband by the time they had the it was too late. As Sendak said, "There was With all of this perspective, it might surprise of comprehension between him and his parents. shattering the illusion that he was meant to be quiet kid. Unfortunately, his sister never knowing she simply had to be pretty and Sendak was an atheist, he truly believed In 2008, Sendak came out as gay and psychoanalyst Eugene David Glynn, for 50 years. regretted never coming out to them, stating he just wanted them to be happy. Moreover, would've killed his career in its earlier I know we've strayed a lot from into Sendak's life perhaps give As far as meaning in his work goes, when asked he said, "I won't pretend that I know well he was the author. And I assume he'd Things Are. He wouldn't pretend to know for certain either. But we do know what One day, when Sendak was looking out the window, and he saw it. An angel moved slowly from The being never turned toward him, it just he shrieked and hollered, and when his he said that Sendak was "a very lucky kid." This book has touched me and so many others. I put and while the book was out on my desk, you who pointed it out and shared their positive Sendak's book with inspiring immense creativity myself, I'd like to think that I was a very to Max and his vivid imagination. As an adult, including in the way I treat others. I try In a way, sometimes we're all Max. Sometimes we all need each other. We all need And I love you best of all dear viewers! And this video, Where the Wild Things Are, Maurice I want to take a moment to give a special thanks without them and I'm extremely grateful for their to videos, join the community Discord, or just well! That'll also get you priority review over if you want for some writing tips and opinions. writing prompts with each other, and that's been in other important ways, liking, commenting and to follow me on Instagram to see what I'm reading Thanks for watching, and ultimately,