Thanks very much. Thank you. What a day I had today. Today, I spent the day converting my son's bedroom into my office. That should get him to move out. (audience laughing) I tried everything. (audience laughing) Well, it's so nice to be in front of people. Yes. (audience cheering) Oh. I've been a little depressed. We didn't see my wife's family for Easter. We didn't see them for Christmas. And I've been a little depressed because I know at some point, we're going to have to see them again. (audience laughing) This can't go on forever. So I'm from Boston originally, but I live in Los Angeles now. And things shut down there around March of 2020. So I haven't been to the gym since 1989. (audience laughing) I got to get back out there. (audience laughing) LA is a strange place. When the pandemic started, I drove by the park in my neighborhood and I spotted a guy sunbathing naked. I yelled, &quot;hey, buddy, put a mask on.&quot; (audience laughing) I saw a doctor on TV one day saying that we may have to wear masks for the rest of our lives. And I thought, I wish he had told me that before I got my kids braces. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) I think people are sick of the masks. I saw someone today getting harassed for wearing a mask. I was at the bank, the poor guy is just trying to rob the place. (audience laughing) My daughter graduated from college during the pandemic and her graduation took place online. And she was so bummed out about it. Here's the thing. She went to an online university. (audience laughing) I don't know what she's expecting, to be honest. (audience laughing) I've gotten some bad habits during the pandemic. I would stay up late at night and buy things I shouldn't on Amazon. One night, late at night, I bought my hamster a Peloton. (audience laughing) That wheel is not enough of a challenge. I had a weird thing happen a couple of weeks ago. I looked out of my front porch and I spotted a coyote. And it was kind of my fault because I'd ordered a package from ACME. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) You have to be a certain age to get that joke. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Not as many Road Runner fans as I had hoped. (audience laughing) Now, one Saturday during the pandemic, it was the little girl next door's birthday. And she couldn't have a birthday party, so all of her friends drove by her house and beeped and waved and wished her a happy birthday. And it brought a tear to my eye because that's how my parents used to celebrate my birthday. (audience laughing) So glad the tradition continues. (audience laughing) I got my will taken care of during the pandemic. My attorney said to me, he said, &quot;when you die, &quot;do you want to be buried &quot;or cremated?&quot; So I said, surprise me. (audience laughing) No spoilers. I was doing some research on the internet the other night, I discovered that there had once been a murder in the house that we're currently living in. It happened two years after we moved in. (audience laughing) Raised a lot of questions, actually. I was a little kid when my grandfather died, I remember I asked my mother I said, when I die, will I see grampy again? And she said, &quot;not if you're good.&quot; (audience laughing) (audience applauding) So I've been busy. I had a job interview last week. The guy asked me like 100 questions. At one point, he said to me, &quot;do you gossip?&quot; (audience laughing) So I said, no. But you know who does? (audience laughing) I haven't heard back from him yet. Little things bother me. Yesterday, the guy that was supposed to fix our doorbell didn't show up, or did he? (audience laughing) Some mysteries will never be solved. My aunt retired this week, she worked at the DMV for 40 years. 40 years at the DMV. And in that time, she waited on nearly a dozen customers. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Isn't that something? (audience laughing) I was talking to my neighbors. My neighbor said to me, &quot;you don't know this about me, &quot;but I've had a lot of Botox.&quot; Only one of us was able to keep a straight face. (audience laughing) My wife did that ancestry.com. She discovered that one of her ancestors graduated in the first graduating class at Harvard in 1636. And get this. Two weeks ago, he finished paying off his student loans. (audience laughing) I got stopped by the cops last week. The cops said to me, &quot;you were going &quot;70 in a 50.&quot; I said, 70 is the new 50. (audience laughing) I saw someone hitchhiking the other-- hitchhiking. It's so dangerous. I came this close to pulling over and murdering him myself-- (audience laughing) --just to teach him a lesson. (audience laughing) Today, I had one of those Impossible Burgers. You know what I'm talking about? Those vegan hamburgers. They're delicious. I had mine with bacon. (audience laughing) That's the way to do it. (audience laughing) Do you have a friend you've known a long time tell you something that just blows your mind? Today, my best friend who I've known my whole life revealed to me that he's imaginary. (audience laughing) I didn't see that coming. (audience laughing) I was talking to my other friends, he said to me, &quot;if you had a time machine, &quot;would you go back in time &quot;and kill baby Hitler?&quot; Here's the thing, I'm a dad. I don't think I could kill a baby. But I could strangle teenage Hitler. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) (audience cheering) Imagine what a nightmare he must have been. My teenage daughter thinks she knows everything. We started to regret naming her Alexa. (audience laughing) My wife told me today that my daughter has been shoplifting. So now I have to deal with that. I'm going to wait until after my birthday. (audience laughing) Teenagers are the worst. The other day, my little girl talked back to my wife. My wife told her to do something, she said, &quot;no, I don't want to.&quot; I had to pull her aside and say, listen, you got to teach me how to do that. (audience laughing) You might be a genius. (audience laughing) So I'm from Boston. The other day, someone said to me, &quot;where are you from?&quot; And I said, Boston. And he said, &quot;the city?&quot; (audience laughing) I said, no, the '70s rock band. (audience laughing) It's more than a feeling. (audience laughing) But I so missed the way things were before the pandemic, right, when things were normal. I was back in Boston a couple of years ago, I visited my childhood home. And I knocked on the door and I said, excuse me. I used to live here. Can I look around? And reluctantly, my parents let me in. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) What's their problem? (audience laughing) I was back in New England about five years ago, I went to one of those corn mazes-- one of those giant corn mazes. I couldn't find my way out. I'm wandering around for like hours. Finally, I took off all my clothes. (audience laughing) Because if you're naked, security will come. (audience laughing) Security came, they got lost. (audience laughing) They took off all their clothes. (audience laughing) We were there for days. (audience laughing) So I live in LA now. I like LA. It's a strange place. On Halloween, I frightened all my neighbors. I dressed up as gluten. (audience laughing) My neighbor told me that meditating for 40 minutes every morning has changed his life. He's late for work, he lost his job. (audience laughing) His wife left him. Huge changes. (audience laughing) Last week, my wife put together an earthquake plan. In the event of an earthquake, she and the kids are supposed to stand under the doorway and I'm supposed to stand under the chandelier. (audience laughing) She went out and bought a chandelier. (audience laughing) So my wife and I, we recently celebrated our 29th wedding anniversary. (audience cheering) Oh, thanks. Thanks very much. Thank you. And I'm happily married. I know that I'm lucky because 50% of married people say they're unhappily married. Now this is according to a poll I took earlier today at my house. (audience laughing) What's her problem? (audience laughing) My wife does this thing, every time we watch a movie together, she falls asleep in the first five minutes. Every time. She doesn't even know I'm here tonight. (audience laughing) She thinks the two of us are watching the Shawshank Redemption. (audience laughing) My wife's an amazing woman. She knows a lot about wine. Like she knows which wine goes with which breakfast cereal. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Very impressive. I call my wife Pumpkin because she always gets smashed around the holidays. (audience laughing) My wife's about a foot shorter than I am, so she has no idea that I'm bald. (audience laughing) Wait'll she finds out. My wife has this guy that she's worked with for years that she refers to as her work husband. They have three kids together. (audience laughing) It's going very well. (audience laughing) I met my wife on jury duty. Thanks to me, she was acquitted. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Oh, you can't trust DNA evidence. (audience laughing) My wife's always shocked when I actually know something. Like the other night, we're watching Jeopardy and the question is, what's the tallest building in the world? And I said, oh, that's Burj Khalifa in Dubai. She's like, &quot;how do you know that?&quot; I said, well when your parents were living with us, I googled, what should I jump off of? (audience laughing) And that's what came up. (audience laughing) My wife was a psychology major in college so she's constantly psychoanalyzing me. When I wanted to fire the pool boy she said, &quot;you feel threatened &quot;by young virile males &quot;because you're getting older. &quot;And you're coping &quot;with your own mortality.&quot; And my argument was, we don't have a pool. (audience laughing) What is Enrique doing here? (audience laughing) So we started seeing a marriage counselor. And the woman's giving us some very valuable tips. For instance, she said, when you first wake up in the morning, the first thing you should say to each other is I love you and not, you again. (audience laughing) Good to know. Good to know. I'm kidding of course. My wife is the best thing that ever happened to me. And I say that because when I met my wife, I only had like two minutes of material. (audience laughing) She's really come through for me. (audience laughing) So we've got two kids. We're very fortunate. Years ago, my wife and I, we were told that we were unable to have children by our landlord. (audience laughing) He was completely mistaken. (audience laughing) You have to be ready for anything when you have kids. One time, my son was four years old, we came back from the drugstore at the mall. He pulls a candy bar out of his pocket. Now I didn't buy him a candy bar. I knew he didn't pay for it. So we jump back in the car, we drive back to the mall. And this time, we went to a jewelry store. (audience laughing) You got to strike while the iron's hot. That's what I say. (audience laughing) But people are so full of it. Years ago, our local Y had these mommy and me exercise classes. So I called them and said, well, can it also be daddy and me? And the woman on the phone assured me, oh, absolutely. No problem. But then when I show up with my dad-- (audience laughing) It's so different being a parent these days. Every kid is on medication these days. Both my kids are on Rogaine. (audience laughing) They insisted. (audience laughing) My wife was one that talked me into shaving my head. She said I'll look much younger. And I do. I now look like I'm a week old. (audience laughing) Wasn't really what I was going for. (audience laughing) So my kids are getting older. I've got two teenagers. I've got two kids in college. And it was very hard for me when my kids went away to college. But they're both English majors, so we know they'll be back living with us in a couple of years. (audience laughing) Silver lining. Yeah. My son always calls me when he's drunk. And I'm flattered that he calls me, you know, because he's just got the one phone call. (audience laughing) This year, my daughter's taking a couple of classes in philosophy where they ask the big questions like, what is truth and what is the meaning of life? I like to ask the little questions, like, why am I paying for this? (audience laughing) So my son graduates next year. And for his graduation present, we're thinking of getting him a car because we're pretty sure he's going to become an Uber driver. (audience laughing) You want to prepare them for their future. Of course, now that I'm a dad, I'll call my dad and ask for advice. He always says the same thing. &quot;How'd you get this number?&quot; (audience laughing) So not helpful. We call our dad GI Joe. My siblings and I we call him GI Joe because his name is Joe and he has gastrointestinal-- (audience laughing) Very strange, me and my father. My father's allergic to cotton. He's allergic to cotton. He has pills he can take, but he can't get them out of the bottle. (audience laughing) I do so many stupid things. I made the mistake a few months ago of calling in sick from the airport. You ever do this? Right when I was about to say why I couldn't come in you could hear, &quot;flight 709 is now boarding. &quot;Flight 709 to Vegas is now boarding.&quot; So I said I can't come in. I'm hearing voices. (audience laughing) I have a lot of problems. I have that problem where sometimes in the middle of the night, I'll stop breathing. And it's not sleep apnea, it's the other one where your wife's holding a pillow over your face. (audience laughing) I got something in the mail today that said, this is not a bill. Opened it up, it said, that was the envelope. This is the bill. (audience laughing) I bought a box of animal crackers. It said, do not eat if seal is broken. (audience laughing) I open it up, sure enough, (audience laughing) the giraffe was fine. (audience laughing) All right, now who didn't get that? (audience laughing) What I don't get, these people, instead of buying a four pack or an eight pack of toilet paper, they buy the single individual roll. Are you trying to quit? (audience laughing) It's so stupid. (audience laughing) So my grandfather came to this country from Ireland in search of a better life. And then my grandmother tracked him down and put a stop to that. (audience laughing) Had to nip that in the bud. We always call my grandfather Poppy because of his opium. (audience laughing) But it doesn't-- I've done some research, it turns out I'm super Irish. Even my blood type is O apostrophe. (audience laughing) But it's amazing what our ancestors went through to come to this country. One of my grandfathers came here in the hull of a ship, shoveling coal 14 hours a day. All while suffering from typhoid fever. My other grandfather had even worse. He came to this country on Spirit Airlines. (audience laughing) Can you imagine? Some characters in my wife's family. She has an uncle that can tell you exactly when and how you're going to die. He's a hit man. (audience laughing) Seems like cheating, if you ask me. When I was growing up, the guy across the street from us was actually in the mafia. And he was a very nice guy. He used to pay me $10 every morning just to start his car. (audience laughing) What a guy. (audience laughing) I grew up in a very religious family, but my best friend now is atheist. He said to me, &quot;how can you believe &quot;God exists when you've never seen &quot;them?&quot; I said, well, I believe Home Depot employees exist. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) I'm pretty sure they're out there. (audience laughing) When I was growing up, we had this little yellow cat called Butter. And years later, eventually after he passed away, we got a new little yellow cat called I Can't Believe It's Not Butter. (audience laughing) You guys have been so much fun. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Thanks a lot. (audience cheering)