- You know, I do a shit load of reading and studying and praying, conclusions I want to share. People look at politicians and celebrities on the TV and the newspapers, glossy magazines, what do they see? &quot;I'm just like them,&quot; I'm special. I'm different, I could be any one of them. Well, guess what? You can't, you know why? 'Cause in reality, mediocrity's where most people live. Mediocrity is the elephant in the room. It's ubiquitous. Mediocrity in your schools. It's in your dreams. It's in your family. And those of us who know this, those of us who understand the disease of the dull, we do something about it. We do more because we have to. The deck was always stacked against us. You're either a big leaguer, or you're a slave clawing your way onto the C train. Some people say Jack Jack Abramoff cuts corners. Well, I say to them, if between me and my family and walkin' and using then so be it. I will not allow my family to be slaves. I will not allow the world You say I'm selfish, fuck you! I give back, I give back plenty. You say I got a big ego? Fuck you twice! I'm humbly grateful for the wonderful gifts that I've received here in America, the greatest country on this planet. I'm Jack Abramoff. And oh, yeah, I work out every day. (car whooshing) (gentle intense music) - Mr. Sprague. Susan Schmidt of the Washington Post. - Find it all right? - Yeah, thanks for seeing me. I got a lot of questions for you. - Jack Abramoff, right? - I hear he was charging your tribe an exorbitant fee. - Thirty million or more. - So I guess you met his - Oh, yeah, he's a real cowboy. - Looks like they might (cars honking) (phone ringing) - [Man] Jack? - Honey. - Jack. - [Jack] Mikey. - Hey, I've been calling Where are you? - I'm in L.A. - What the fuck are you doing in L.A.? Our world is collapsing here. - Wait, what have you heard? Are you gonna be indicted? - Well, I got federal I've had a hundred media calls today. - We're under horrific assault from the worst forces in our culture. - I know, I know. You're the only one The president's probably destroying every picture he ever took with you. - Well, you're no one in this town until you haven't met us. - That isn't funny, Jack. Don't fucking mess with my chi, dude. I'm serious. We are super-fucked here, okay? They're calling us the We're about to be on the Nightly News. You need to get back to D.C., now. (traffic honking) - [Man] Step up to the line. - [Jack] Dear Mr. President, I write you this petition As a man of faith, I have come to see God move in mysterious ways. After we're born, he gives (camera clicks) - Please don't smile. - I'm not smiling. Accept the world for the way it is, or see it for how we might want it to be. - Turn to your right. Your right. - To me, the choice was obvious. How long are you gonna be holding me here? - You can get that - I do get my own cell, right? And I only eat kosher, okay? You do serve kosher, don't you? - Mr. Abramoff, this is a It's not kosher. - Jack Abramoff. - Snake. - What are you in for, Snake? - Assault and battery, resisting arrest. Chickenshit beef like that. How about you? - Oh, me? I work in D.C. I'm a lobbyist. - Lobbyist. That against the law? (gentle intense music) (sirens chirping) Next to God, faith and country, nothing is more important than influence. Political influence. Influence with the powerful is like influence with God. Without it, there's only eternal hellfire, damnation and congressional logjam. Here the influence we than the air you breathe. As a licensed lobbyist, to accept money from special interests in order to influence I'm essentially a conduit to motivating sleepy lawmakers into getting bills passed and legislation done. - Well, our client is extremely anxious to know what's in your bill. - The reality is, without lobbyists, the wheels of Washington - About how much are you Can you tell me that in dollar terms? - Why? Because the most powerful rely on lobbyists like me for information to guide them on how to vote. And how they vote sometimes requires taking them on fact-finding missions. Like House majority leader Tom DeLay, who we brought to the Northern Mariana Islands in the South Pacific a U.S. territory where my textile clients produce American-made designer clothes without having to pay minimum wage. - Well, these folks seem happy. How are you? - [Woman] Hello, thank you. - I think we should be able to vote favorably on this, Jack. - For example, your can stay on sale for 19.95 simply because labor costs in the Marianas remain low. Morning. - Jack is pushing Mr. DeLay hard to make sure the minimum wage legislation stays off Congress's schedule. - [Jack] Hey, you troglodytes, that DeLay gets the latest export numbers from Willie in case the Senate tries to kill this thing? - Oui, mon capitaine. - Lobbying is nothing more than American-style democracy in action. And the more influence we have, the bigger the smiles on our kids' faces. - [Girl] Oh, my God! - [Jack] Good morning, gentlemen. Grover, what brings - Don't even bother trying to He has issues with Just with Native Americans, Jack. - What do they have to do with Americans for Tax Reform? - I need your help on this one, Grover. I need the congressional friends in your organization to understand that there are certain American Indian tribes that need help. - Jack, the United States, from day one, was founded on the basis that you could be or do anything you want to. You're in charge of your own future. There's no ceiling, there's no floor. You want to be a bum, you can be a bum. You want to accomplish great things, you can do that too. So, if some Native Americans choose to live in third world conditions, why is that my problem? Are those pistachios? - Yeah. - [Man] He's here, Jack. - Listen, this is perfect for you, Grover. It's philanthropic. I mean, the money we're saving them is essentially paying for their health clinics and schools. - Help them help themselves. - Yeah, come on. There's no one in this town - [Man] You're a Harvard man, dude. - Yeah, yeah. The man with the crimson tongue. - Grover, all we're trying to do is help these people empower themselves. - Jack, I've known you for 25 years. Why do I think your social gravitas is more than just about health clinics and schools? (airplane whooshing) - [Flight Attendant] Veuve Clicquot, sir. - Thank you. - Iced tea. - [Jack] Thank you. - Merlot with three ice cubes. - Thank you. Dude, seriously, I think I once got a lap dance from her at Nexus Gold. - I wouldn't know, Mikey, I'm married. - I thought I recognized her too. - [Man] See, I knew it. - I think the good Lord would prefer I have deaf ears on this one, boys. - We all set? - Check. Eighteen holes, St. Hugh Fraser, British Open champ, on hand to give a lesson. La-di-fucking-da. Restaurant tour of Edinburgh and a two-day stopover at the Oh, V.l.P. tickets to - Great. (upbeat music) - [Man] Nice soft grip, soft hands. Take a whack at her, go on. You made contact. - Great. Now I gotta sandbag my drive so Poncho doesn't spew - Poncho's been primed. I've arranged to have his picture taken with Bush when we get back. - Three years ago, his tribe is weaving pine needles and selling key chains. - Now all he wants to do is drive a Hummer and buy condos in Hawaii. - Can you tell me why casinos and make 20 mil a year? - Well, I don't know, maybe That not a good enough - Are you part Mohawk now? - Yes, indeed. Kemosabe. One of the lost tribes of Israel. - Yeah, yeah, you're Probably why they like you so much. - That's what I'm talking about. - You know what blows my mind? All these Indians are so damn rich, and they're still acting He's a multimillionaire, Just think if you and I could we would be running D.C. in no time. - What are you suggesting? - I'm suggesting that they pay us a ridiculous amount of money, okay? And then you and I can split the fee 50-50 under the table. - It's a little tough on the Chippewa. Not to mention, is it legal? - What are they gonna do? Cancel my membership at the ACLU? Come on. I got a limit on what I can charge. - That sucks for you, I'm grassroots, baby. You're always complaining You know what? You deserve better. Okay? And Chief Shanks-a-Lot there is our ticket out of hourly fee hell. - [Man] That's it, Chief. - Okay, put together a pitch for Tonto. Let's see what he says. - [Man] Looks good. Now, Chief, it's a simple thing. - [Jack] Look, I've the Tiguas, the Aguas Calientes, and I tell them all the same thing, Chief, I know what it feels like to be a persecuted minority. - [Chief] Yeah, well, it's about finally did something - [Jack] Like give America back? - [Chief] You got a real I like that. - [Jack] Look, the casino is But in reality, the gaming You know, the Jena tribe, they want to open up their own casino now. - [Chief] They're just one state away. - Yeah, and I know those guys. They can be brutal. They can shut you down mega-fast. No more Chippewa casino. You need our help, Chief. You heard Mike's proposal? - It's a tough call. It's a hell of a fee you're asking for. Kind of a record, isn't it? - But think of the billions I can guarantee you that goddamn Jena tribe casino will never open. And before you know it, the Jena tribe's gonna be back selling moccasins. - You know, Mr. Abramoff, we can't afford to lose this one. - You won't, swear to God. (upbeat music) - Give me five! A toast to Team Abramoff! (glasses clinking) - To Team Abramoff. - To giving America back to the Indians. - All hail to Washington's - Fuckin'-A! You are no one in this town unless you haven't met - Take it easy, Bill. - Jack, you know Emily, my fiancee, everybody. - From the, Bush inaugural. - I'll never forget that night. McCain was in his office We lost! - It's nice to see the moderates bleed from every orifice. - Amen to that. - Hey, Jack. Those Polynesian factories you rep, that make the blue jeans - Yeah, what about them? - Word on the street is they're goddamn sweatshops and rape camps. - Oh, all you guys from the Washington Post want to be Woodward and Bernstein. Fuckin' pathetic. - That so? The Labor Department just fined your client nine million dollars. Must be for something. - Hey, listen, Ben Bradlee. Mistakes will happen, but the truth is you can't tell me those immigrants aren't making more money than they would in China and sending it - That's right, Scotty. We're just greasing the wheel Capitalism at its finest. - Doing the Lord's work. - Doesn't sound much like - Don't be stupid. No democracy, no fucking capitalism. No capitalism, no fucking democracy. Only goddamn communistic - Thank you, Joe McCarthy. - [Man] Fuckin' elitist! - [Michael] What is wrong with you? - God. - Someone call 911. Scott is a hemophiliac. - You just hit a hemophiliac reporter from the Washington Post! Come on! - [Man] Oh, great, another - It's okay, it's okay, Jesus. - This isn't good. (soft tense music) - Enid, get DeLay for me, will ya? - Should I remind him of Bible - Bible class Thursday? - Yeah. Jack, remember, I switched (phone ringing) - Well, Enid, you know, sometimes, even those of us who can have our senior moments. - Yes, Mr. President. Oh, Jack, Mr. Rouvelas is here. - Make sure I see it - Manny. - Let's grab a coffee. - Hey, listen. If it's about the Delail I fired him yesterday. The guy was a loose cannon. It's not like the Post is an - Yeah, can we save this for later? - Bear with me, it's important. - [Jack] All right, Manny. So, where's the fire? - [Manny] We hired you we needed someone who had friends in the Bush administration. - [Jack] It's not about friends, Manny. It's about ideas. - And you guys on the But now that communism is gone, all you think about is money. - So, did you invite me out for an iced vanilla chai just to remind me that That's kind of beneath - What's beneath me, Jack, are the clients you drag into my shop. Those bottom-feeders in the rag trade in the Mariana Islands. - You know, there is an They get to send money back to their families in the mainland. And look at all the great work we're doing for the Choctaw, the Chippewa. - That all sounds nice but you're buddies with the White House. Hell, you're a good reason that idiot cinched the Republican nomination. - That's 'cause we destroyed - Bush still owes you. Why not use that? Aim a little higher when - Such as? - Such as a Fortune 500 company or two. - You mean rich, white people. - Listen, I've got a situation in Florida with a client Your background in gaming might help us stickhandle it. (soft tense music) - [Jack] So, Indians? - No, Greeks. A guy in Florida named Gus Boulis. Bankruptcy's just the tip of his iceberg. He needs a buyer fast. It's a very lucrative casino op. Anybody who can afford Anyway, Manny said you'd have some clients who might be interested - Yeah, okay, Art, I'll look into it. (gentle piano music) (mumbling) - Have you done your davening yet? Then come to bed. Kids are asleep, it's late. What? What are you thinking? - About us. Seems like only yesterday with the College Republicans. - Remember that time you brought Pavarotti to Brandeis? Nobody thought you could pull it off. - All them lefties listening to The Clash. - Hey, I like Joe Strummer. - Maybe I should have with Pavarotti. That would have been something. - I still love your dorkiness, hon. Always thinking out of the box. - Oh, Adrian. Nobody ever went the distance with Creed. If they ring that bell and I'm still standin', then I'll know I weren't just another bum from the neighborhood. (laughing) - [Pam] Come to bed. - [Jack] So this character Gus Boulis comes down from Canada, opens up a chain of sandwich shops in Miami. Then he cashes out, and he goes into the cruise business, buys a fleet full of yachts. So, Boulis turns them runs out of nine ports. Tourists, retirees, some high rollers. They call it The Cruise to Nowhere. But there's this Florida attorney general who's got a hard-on for gamblers, looking for a technicality Problem is Boulis isn't a U.S. citizen, which turns out to be a violation of the Shipping Act of 1916. And then this idiot gets sloppy about how he runs the casinos. He plays fast and loose with the bets. He thinks he's still fooling - Blackjack, house wins. - The customers start to complain. Pretty soon Boulis is catching heavy grief with his gambling license. The gist of it is the feds He's got months to divest. Gives me a window. - [Michael] Gives you a window? What, are you serious? - No, we're serious. - 145 million? How we gonna swing that? - We're gonna use our most my imagination. - Well, you better imagine us as rich as the Chippewa then. - So, what do you think of SunSail? How do you think we should handle it? - We need a front man. You know, someone strong but not so strong we can't control him. - He needs to have his own money so he can invest, keep him loyal, honest. You know anybody like that? (upbeat jazzy music) - Kwikee-Mattress. The last s is for savings! The lowest prices in greater Bethesda, plus same-day delivery. - The principles of the Republican Party more closely parallel the moral vision of the God of Abraham than anyone else. So, the question, does God want people to be liquid? And the answer is yes. The answer is yes. Prosperity enables us to be able to help our fellow man, to be stewards of civilization. In biblical times, taxes which is a lesson we could learn today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Party lights the way for America and, may I say, the rest of the globe. (clapping) Ralph. - Really good stuff. - [Jack] Thanks for coming. - Inspirational, Jack. - Thanks, Congressman. - Jack. - We need to talk. - Sure thing, Grover. - Stewards of civilization? Beautiful words, Jack. - Well, I only take my cue from the most powerful man in Congress. - You remember Reverend Mueller from my home district in Texas, don't you? - Pleased to see you again, Mr. Abramoff. You know, it's refreshing to see both Jews and Christians working together to make - I'm inspired, Reverend. Karl. - Nice to see you, Jack. The president asked me to Needs a little help with his golf swing. - Happy to, thanks, Karl. Senator. My clients have a, substantial - Really? I can't thank you enough, Jack. You know, we're really lucky to have you. - Hey, hey, hey. Slow down, you monkeys. Thank you, be careful with that. See you in the car. - Watch your brother, okay, honey? - What did you think of my talk? - Well, except for the part where God wants us to be financially liquid. Sounded weird. - I meant abundant. It's It means power. - Remember Exodus 32, the golden calf? The worship of the false idol? - Hold the horses. She's quoting scripture to me. Why, Pam Abramoff, when we met, you were reading Cosmo magazine, mispronouncing all them Yiddish words. - Kvetch, schlemiel. I think I'm getting the hang of it. - Jack, nice speech. - Hey, Adam, thanks for showing up. - Wow, really gone for - Oh, I thought it made me - More like Fiddler on the Roof. - Hey, don't knock Fiddler on the Roof. It was transformational for me when I was a teenager. - Made you want to be a milkman? - No, made me want to be a real Jew. - Good-looking family you have. A big family you have. - Pam, you remember Adam from the College Republicans? - Hello. - Well, you've done an excellent job raising the youngsters. I'm single again. Swinging bachelor, I guess. - Good luck with that. - Listen, we need to talk. Can you swing by my house on Sunday? We'll have dinner. - You mean like a kind of date? - [Pam] What business could you possibly have with a man like that? - Honey, he's got a law - He looks like a defendant on Judge Judy. - Honey. Have a little compassion. He's a partner in a He's a respectable guy who knows a lot. He could be a very useful partner. - Useful for what? - In five years, our family - Would you please stop it with that, quoting movies all the time. It's irritating. - Oh, come on, honey. You know I love the movies. And I am a Hollywood producer. - You produced two Dolph You work in Washington now. - Babe, Washington is - I'm serious, Jack. He makes me nervous. And another thing., I mean, how is it that we're late with the mortgage payment? We're okay, aren't we? - Oh, yeah, no. This just must be some accounting thing. I'll look into it in the morning. Don't worry. Put this on my desk. I'm watching you walk away. Still watching you walk away. Walk away some more. (energetic instrumental music) (slot machines beeping) - [Dealer] Everybody wins. - As we all know, the gaming industry has blown up across America. This phenomenon has given great fortune, not only to our tribe to But now we're at risk of losing everything to the competition of The point is we need help in Washington, and we need help now. And as I said in my written statement, Mr. Abramoff here has my full support in recommending that he have only the best interests of - Mr. Abramoff, I've, read your proposal. I see you want one million dollars just as a retainer to start. - Well, you're asking for We are the best, we can get it done. You want to kick some ass Let's kick some ass. (laughing) That was Dolph Lundgren, in case you were confused. All right, look, here's my advice. It's free today. You fellas hire Michael Scanlon and Capitol Strategies who, as some of you may know, at one time was the very famous right hand of the Reverend Pat Robertson. He can organize some high-wattage Christian opposition by the Jena tribe and do to them what we did to McCain - You want $30 million I could be president myself for that. (laughing) It's just too much money. - The money's worth it. Jack will lobby for us in Washington. He can help make us one of the most powerful tribes in the region. - Our people need more health care. We need more education, not influence. - Mr. Sprague, you may not think you need influence in Washington, but I'm telling you, to have direct access is gonna influence how they vote on the very-- Oh, speak of the devil. It's the congressional offices calling. It's, House majority leader Tom DeLay. Excuse me for a moment, everyone. Tom, how's it going? - Jack, am I on time? - Everything is terrific here. In fact, I'm with the Chippewa now. - Remind me not to order the tuna from the cafeteria again. - Yes, I will, remind them of what they're up against, sir. Yeah, and absolutely that they can count on your full support. - Great, Jack, I'll see you. - Great, Tom, say hi to I'll call you when I get back. I'm not bragging when I tell you that we can have effective and direct access to members of Congress on behalf of Screaming Eagle Resort. Otherwise, this beautiful is gonna shut down tight and very quickly. - In the current climate, we are barely breaking even now. I say the council votes no. Sorry, Mr. Abramoff. - I'm going to have to agree. The council votes at three But, thanks for coming all this way. - He's seriously messing - So Sprague is a subchief on the council? - It's an elected position. Poncho has zero juice, okay? What the hell is a - Why didn't we know this before we wasted a hundred grand taking him golfing? - How the hell was I supposed to know Poncho was the fucking queen of England? - Well, Sprague's gotta go. When's the next council election? You're not talking about messing with the council election, are you? Because, you know, you're gonna be in contravention of the - Well, let me tell you something. They're fucking with our I was gonna use that on the SunSail opportunity with the Greek. - Tell me about it. I just put a huge down payment - What? - The Du Pont mansion in Rehoboth Beach. I told you about it, it's badass. And I've got a lease on a with this killer pool table. My overhead is insane right now. - You haven't paid off your student loans. What do you need with a - What? You're buying stuff. - Worthwhile stuff. - All right, look, just have Grover keep Poncho entertained and let him tell us mega-fast when the next election is. - Hey, I was in Florida 2000, dude. Hanging chads, state troopers. This is gonna be a cakewalk. All right? Tiptoe through the tulips. Hi there. Thank you. - Be careful there, Mikey. She probably still eats her Thank you. - [Michael] Hey, baby doll. - Hi. Who the hell was that girl? - You are so cute. She's an employee. You gotta be nice to the help. - For a Jew, I bet you get a lot of cool Christmas cards. - Oh, we see our share of Nativity scenes. - Hey, look at you, macho man. - Oh, you didn't know I was a guard at Beverly Hills High? Once knocked a kid ice-cold Made the papers. - [Adam] I bet a lot of went to the NFL, huh? Know what I majored in in high school? - [Jack] Pool? - No, fuckin'. - Really? How does it feel to get a C in that class? (graceful piano music) All right, so you've gone from pool to selling mattresses? That's quite an upgrade, Adam. - I'm a very successful - Really? 'Cause I hear Kwikee-Mattress - Hey, I sold my franchise for over seven figures and got out. - Excellent. Because I've got a new - Like what? - SunSail Casinos. - Offshore gambling? You know who you're dealing with? - Greenpeace? - Trust me, I know. - Adam, think of the fund-raising possibilities, all right? It's like Vegas on crack. The boats go out beyond the 12-mile limit. It's an all-cash business. Use your imagination, Adam. 'Cause I got plans. - Yeah, plans like Bugsy Malone. - No, plans like to open up my own private Hebrew school. Public education sucks. You have no idea what my kids - Your own school? - Yeah. Plus there's my foundation. All the charity work I'm doing. Look, I'm trying to do important stuff that matters for people. - I, I don't know, Jack. I'm starting to see Charlie Manson as my roommate for the next 10 years. This isn't a bunch of native people. You're dealing with sharks here. I'm gonna say no. But thanks for the $65 steak. It's delicious. - Adam, just go down to Florida with my business partner, Michael Scanlon, and you guys talk to You're always asking me Give me something, give me something. Well, now I'm giving you - I was thinking something maybe a little less hazardous to my person. - I dealt with commies in Nicaragua, generals in Pakistan. I've even dealt with Why should I be afraid of a - What's Imelda like? - She likes to play the - Really? - Yeah, she's got a pretty decent voice. (high energy music) - Has all the subtlety - Not that you would know looks like, right? - Looks like Boulis is into family values. Looks like he hired his whole family. - Hey, guys. I'm Chris, Gus's nephew. Gus is running a little late. You guys hungry? You want something to drink? - No, we're fine. - I'll have a shot of I'm coming for niggas who Making money player, I go, I look downright mad, right mad Hustling niggas working I'm glad (slot machine ringing) (laughing) I look downright mad I told Jack to forget about this place. It's a fucking reptile cage. - Boulis is doing mega - This blows. - [Michael] Whatever, he's just trying to make a statement. - This is how he operates? We've been waiting an hour. I don't like it. I'm going back to Miami. This is nuts. Adam, sit down. Sit down, okay? - Konstantinos Boulis. Sorry to keep you. - Hey, Mike Scanlon, Pleasure to meet you. - Adam Kidan. - Sorry Jack couldn't be here. He sends his regards. You've done well for yourself, Gus. Nice fleet of boats like this, dude, you gotta be a content man. - Yeah. Except for the fuckin' attorney general. Because of him, I need to keep what's left of my sanity. So, let's cut the crap. You and Jack plan to pay my price? All right, look, We can give you 20 cents on the dollar. That's the best we can offer, dude. - There's no negotiation. You pay my price, that's it. Oh, yes, I keep a 10% interest. I run the business. And don't call me dude. - You talkin' to me? Are you talkin' to me? Ah, it's your move. You make the move. - Sorry. Jack and his boys watch too many movies. - Movies? I didn't invite you here - No, no. No, I was-- - What, you joke with me, movies? Fairy tales, get out! Fellas. You come back when you can show - No, I was just trying - [Gus] Christos. - Come on. Who doesn't like impressions, right? What the fuck? We got wealth you wouldn't - Well, that went well. - [Jack] Fuckin' idiot. Who doesn't negotiate? - [Michael] I know. I'm telling you, he's a hard-ass, dude. - You watch me put some hot sauce in this fucker's tabbouleh. - He's not gonna scare easy. I don't know how the hell you're - Yeah, well, you know what? Try the Congress of the United States. Boulis will turn around, Mikey. Trust me, hang on. Bob? - Yeah, Jack. - Listen, I need a favor for a client. - Sure, name it. Which tribe are we talking about? - No, not Indians, Greeks. Casino gambling in South Florida. - I represent the 18th It's a bit of a hot potato. Can you deal me a pass on this one? - After the money I've funneled to you this year, Bob, no, I All right, I need your Mike will send you the details. Thanks. (gentle upbeat music) - [Michael] So, here's the casino file. Jack expects to see you on C-SPAN no later than Thursday. - Tell him he's pushing it. - Bob, he knows how busy you are with the upcoming fall elections. In fact, if I'm not mistaken, he's organizing a huge fund-raiser for you next Tuesday. - Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I am an ardent supporter At the heart of my comments today is how certain gaming There are a few bad apples out there who don't play by the rules and who must be, weeded weeded out. One such example is the and its proprietor, Gus Boulis. (cheering) - You is the man. - [Manny] What's all - Oh, hey, Manny. We're just working hard finding - Hey, good, glad to hear it. Any live ones? - Oh, yeah, we're all over it, Manny. - No shady ones from the Marianas, okay? - Absolutely. - I serve this country and no other. (energetic instrumental music) - Listen, we need to get everything we can on this Boulis, all right? I want you to call our friends at Fox News and have DeLay hammer No, never mind. I'll call DeLay myself. He wants me to hook him up with the Harvard College Republicans. Thinks I can make him look good in front of all those Ivy League monkeys. - Yeah, good luck with that. You know what, he was a pest exterminator in Laredo, Texas, dude. That's gonna be a huge - Hey, man. He clawed his way up to majority leader. Now he's got his eyes on the White House. - DeLay, are we talking He was an alcoholic with famous hot tub parties before he met God. What the hell, dude? What the hell was that? - Never before has an individual who's been steadfast to our principles risen as high as House Tom DeLay is the most effective I would say he was the most effective whip in the House, and I would say he's the most effective majority leader, and thank God Tom DeLay is the majority leader in the House of Representatives. (applauding) And I would just like to because I'm sure we all But Tom DeLay is who all of us hope to be when we grow up. Tom. (applauding) - You truly are my dearest friend. - Senator Jarvis, I have a check for you from the Choctaw Indians. - Oh, press my easy button, Jack. - And they want to wish you the best with your campaign. congratulate and thank each of you for getting involved in politics through Young Republicans. What you're doing is commendable and important because, as goes politics, so goes our country. - [Jack] Grover. - [Tom] And a weak country - Glad you're on the team. - Jack, you know how Poncho is the third Indian you've made me babysit this month. There is only so much congressmen at Americans for Tax Reform want to be educated about the benefits of Indian gaming. - Grover. Well, Grover, how about we fatten Poncho's donation to A.T.R., help you out with your operational costs? - [Grover] That'd be a start. I have a hole in my budget of 75K. - [Jack] Ouch. All right, I'll look into it, champ. - [Grover] Meanwhile, where - [Jack] Mikey boy? He was supposed to take Poncho off my hands three hours ago. (mellow instrumental music) - You guys want to see something crazy? Bam! A million smackeroos, baby. Give me five. How sexy am I to you right now, huh? - Very sexy. - Sure you're not a drug - Drug dealer, my ass. - [Emily] Oh, your lackey's defending you. - [Michael] Jack and I are - And you don't think the is gonna take issue with all the high fees you've been charging? - Since when have you become - You're not the only or two about Washington, you know. - Those bitches are doing the exact same thing we are trying to open casinos. - They're just jealous 'cause they don't make as much as you. - You are so right. Here it is, baby. Shangri-la, Kubla Khan, Xanadu. - [Brian] Hey, sorry, babe. - [Emily] Oh, my God. - [Michael] What, you don't like? - [Emily] This is high-end? - [Michael] This is like something you'd find in Southampton, right? - [Emily] Southampton. Have you ever been to Southampton? - [Brian] This is great - [Michael] Right, little Come on. have you lost your mind? - [Pam] It's a what? - [Jack] A Zamboni. A Zamboni machine for smoothing - [Pam] What ice? - [Jack] The ice for the hockey rink. - A hockey rink? I don't see a hockey rink. - Well, no, not here. It's being built somewhere else. Honey. Look, These are all temporary facilities. It's all part of the new Eshkol Academy and Sports for all these kids for our kids. - You were serious - Well, of course, you know how I feel about the education that - A hockey rink? - Baby, I thought you'd be happy. I just bought us the biggest house in the whole damn state. - It's astonishing, dude. - [Michael] Right? - For the Addams Family maybe. 4.5 million. I can't even believe that you would pay money for this this dump. - Are you kidding me? This place could be or something, huh? - It's all part of the - Philanthropy. The academy, the library, my foundation. The restaurants, the boats, the hotel it's all gonna pay for it. - Hotel? I'm looking at a property right now. The Chitimachas want to invest with me. - Jack, what are you doing? Is this why we aren't keeping up with our house payments? - Honey, think what you want about me, but this is for our kids and their kids. They're our priorities here. - Is this even aboveboard? - Joseph Kennedy built up with the help of the Chicago mob. - Jack, honey, I love you, and don't take this the wrong way, but you are completely insane. - Dude, we're gonna rip this crap out, throw in a sound system. They will hear us for miles. - Right? - A sound system? What about furniture? - Knock yourself out, baby. Scanlon. - Mike Scanlon? - [Michael] Yo. - Susan Schmidt with the Washington Post. - Hi. What can I do for you, Susan? - Well, I wanted to see if you would comment on that new minimum wage bill the Senate's about to pass with respect to your textile clients in - Oh you know, I don't believe they have all the votes on that, so I don't think that bill's - I'm also curious about the work Preston Gates does on behalf of Native Americans. We're thinking of doing a - Oh, yeah? Well, good luck with that. That should bore your readers to death. - Really? - Looks like your Mariana Senate passed the bill. Minimum wage is on the way. - I'm fucked. Jack said he'd can me if we didn't reach the end zone on this one. Well, I'd better man - [Jack] Try to do that again. Woo, woo! - Nice. What's wrong, Ring Ding? Somebody die? You guys didn't watch. - Yeah. - The Senate passed the bill. The Marianas are fucked. - So, why the long face? This is great. - Okay. - Look, let me Let me This is how it works. Do you have any idea how much more money our clients are gonna have to pay us to get that bill killed in the House? In fact, I'm gonna call them right now, tell them they gotta Enid. - Sorry to interrupt Jack, I need you to see - Okay. (peaceful strumming music) - [Waitress] Here's your menus, gentlemen. Enjoy your dinner. - The sashimi toro is excellent here. - No kidding. - Not as good as it's gonna be at my new restaurant though. I just hired a top-dollar Tokyo chef. Five stars. - New restaurant, Tokyo chef, five stars. How you feeling, Jack? - Perfect, why do you ask? - No reason, other than I think you may be suffering from delusions I'm gonna have to let you go. You violated the firm's ethics policy. We asked you to help Gus not elbow your way in and try to buy it yourself. - Your client is difficult. Do you think any buyer out there is gonna agree to his terms? I'm trying to help you out. - Help us out? Using Adam Kidan as a front man? - He's a good guy. He's a respectable businessman. - He's bankrupt, he's been disbarred, he's a mob-connected sleazeball. - He's told me he has - Clean bill of health? I'd say he was a cheap, My God, his own mother was whacked. - What the hell are you talking about? - If you're doing business with this guy, then so are we. You think I want my firm connected with someone like that? And, Jack, you know what's even worse? You lied to us. I need you to clean out your office by the end of the month. You're done. - You don't think, do you, Manny? You never got me. You never have, you never will. - Am I missing some nuance here? - Yeah, I'd say you're You're missing a big fucking nuance. The Wall Street Journal is coming out with a piece called The Superlobbyist. Do you know who that is? That's me, I'm the superlobbyist! I get paid higher retainer fees than anybody else in this town, and you goddamn well know it. And I'm gonna have a new Five goddamn stars. - Anything else? - I love my kids. I work out every single day. You're gonna come out the losing end of this one, Manny. You're gonna lose every single one of those Indian tribes as clients. And you know what I'm gonna do? Tomorrow morning, I'm gonna go outside, and when K Street finds there's gonna be five fuckin' law firms top-drawer who are gonna They're gonna be jumping up and down like little kids who Let's hire Jack Abramoff! - Then you should have - Absolutely. (mellow instrumental music) - Nice piece. You playing cowboy now with those Indians? - You've kept me waiting. - Why'd you get the shooter? - You didn't tell me Not to mention your fucking bankruptcy. Not to mention the fucking mobbed-up connections in Saint Martin. Not to mention the fucking murder of your own fucking mother! - Well, I was gonna tell you. - When, 2020? You're a dangerous man, Adam. That's why I've got the fucking gun. - Okay, so go ahead, shoot me! - Get in my house, get in my house. You're a fuckin' menace. You know that? You ought to wear a sign around your neck as a public service. Beware, Adam Kidan, Fucking Menace. - Where's Pam? - With the kids. I sent her to see her folks. - So you're the married dude, and I'm like the hot, underage mistress? Jack, you gotta relax. Maybe even psychologize, okay? You gotta ask yourself, what does Gus Boulis want? - [Jack] He wants to and keep his fucking business. That's what he wants. - What Boulis wants is to keep his company and sell it at the same time. He wants both. - So how do we give him both? - What if we quietly call it a consulting fee. - How does that get us the Adam, I'm already-- a few deal points away now. Boulis wants to keep his piece of the business under the table. That's against the law. He'll have to take our I.O.U.s. - For 20 million? That's a hell of a lot of I.O.U.s, Adam. No, you're gonna have to - Trust me to handle the formalities. Sweetheart. Jack, the boats can be and your money problems are over. - Just keep it legal, okay? - I have a better idea. Why don't you show me your pussy? (upbeat jazzy music) - [Photographer] Okay, that's great, Jack. - Welcome to Greenberg. - [Jack] Okay, down there. - [Michael] Whoo! - Now you're getting serious. - Loving the feng shui in here, buddy. - Here, one thing missing. - [Man] Looking good, sir. Looking very good. Yeah. - Yeah, well, just hang on a sec. Let me see if I can find him. - Congressman, listen, yes, sir. We need your vote. Tickets? Redskins, Sunday, absolutely. Not a problem. I've had the honor to know Tom DeLay, the best majority leader that, we've had in Congress in the history of the United States. - [Michael] All right, daddy-o. How much if I drain - Come on. 25K. - [Michael] You are a cheap whore. Come on, it's 50 at least. Look at it. It's halfway across the tarmac. - [Jack] All right, 50K. You'll never make it. - [Michael] All right, here we go. Daddy needs a new pair of shoes. Booyah! 50 Gs, G. - Oh, Mikey. - What's the matter, brother? - I'm hemorrhaging money like Niagara Falls out of my ass. SunSail, the restaurant, the school they've all got me strapped. I'm bouncing checks all over the place. And now I'm really out on a limb with the second restaurant. - What the hell do you need - Well, one of them's - Oh, come on. - There isn't a decent kosher restaurant anywhere near K Street. - So? - We need more clients. - You need to chill out, dude. I got a phone call this morning from Chief Nokoaht of the Texas Kickapoo. - Nokoaht of the Kickapoo? You're kidding. - We're golden, baby. He wants to meet with Bush I told him he wants to get her done, it's gonna cost him a - Can you get that in the end zone? - He loves what we've done - Oh, awesome! If that's true, man, you make him show you the money fast! - Show me the money! - You do that. Give me five. Keep it under the radar. Congressman, I was on the phone this very day with the governor of Texas, who told me personally that all of his congressional districts are gonna vote no on the bill. That is correct. Congressman, look, my mother's very ill. She's on the other line. Could I call you back? Yes, thank you, sir. We did it, we're in, we're in. We're in like Flynn. Look at that. Who's Vegas? Who's Vegas? - [Man] You did it, Jack. - Vegas, baby! - Glad to see you're - You is the man, Oscar. - Glad to have you at Greenberg, Jack. Along with the Coushattas, the Choctaw and the Chippewa. - And don't forget the Kickapoo too. Mikey, baby. - Chippewa election central, dude, in beautiful Saginaw, Michigan. Oh, man. (speaking in foreign language) - It is perfect timing, We just closed SunSail. We own it. - Oh, sweet! Dude, our kwong is so flowing, daddy-o! - How goes it down there - The what? - Troglodyte. It's fuckin' look it up, - Dude, listen, listen. The slate of eight rocked What are you saying, we won? - We did it. We did it. Bernie Sprague is out, Poncho is in. Consider us hired by the Chippewa, dude. - You are gold, you dog! When it rains, it pours! All right, we gotta start I want 20 million from - Yes, Big Chief Rainmaker. Oh, dude, you have to know Sprague is super pissed about this whole deal, okay? He took it really hard. - Oh, yeah, what is that job he's got? - Parks and recreation commissioner. - Yeah, well, doesn't Why don't you just tell Poncho - You got it, man. Trim unnecessary fat from the budget, fiscal discipline, yada, yada, yada. - Oh, I don't know. Maybe it's bad karma to - Yeah, right. Not only are we gonna we're gonna kick him Then we're gonna beat him over the head with a baseball bat, roll him up into an old rug and kick him off a cliff into the pounding surf below. - Go take a jog, buddy. (phone ringing) - Mr. Abramoff's office. - [Bernie] Yeah, run and get Jack. - [Enid] Excuse me, who's calling? - [Bernie] Bernie. - [Enid] Bernie. Bernie who? - Tell him I'm a rabbi - Mr. Abramoff's in a meeting. Can he return? - Tell him he's gonna have company soon. - Excuse me, who is this? (jazzy instrumental music) - Black 22, black 22. - Are all these bastards related to Gus? - How do you mean? - There's enough staff in here - They're all family. - Really? This isn't the old country. We're in America. Wait in my cabin. - [Christos] Here it is. - [Adam] This is just today's take? - [Christos] Yep. - Ka-ching. Over the valley Voices are singing Bells are a-ringing Dance, everyone, dance Come to the valley Run through the clover Harvest is over dance, everyone, dance Dance where The corn is high We want to make sure in Washington are well taken care of. And they will be here. Right? Join hands, skip along Turn left, turn right hold tight Lift your feet The heart will follow Pam, honey, I promise, - Oh, Jack. Like the swallow, fly away Greet the day Dance, dance everybody dance - Mike. Mike! Why is Susan Schmidt trying to reach you? She just left a message for you on my cell phone. - [Michael] Ignore her. She's a nosy reporter from the Post. - You know Susan's a friend. - [Michael] Babe, I wine spritzers you drink with her. This is business, so fuck her. I'm not calling her back. - Did you see the electrician up there? He said he would be here at four. - What do I look like, the help? - You're so useless. Where the hell do you think you're going? I'm pretty sure I told you, I have a business meeting, hon. - A business meeting. What, in your flip-flops? How dumb do you think I am? - What? I have business to discuss with Brian. - You have business with Brian? - I love you, but you're getting kinda I gotta send Brian to Michigan to help out with the Chippewa deal. - And what part of your dubious dealings with the Chippewa is Brian a party to? - Baby, Brian is helping us fight the good fight, okay? - Oh, God, why do I waste my time here with you and these Delaware weenies? - Yeah, because you'd elitist dinner party in Georgetown, right? - You bet I would. - [Michael] Later. - Mike! (speaking in foreign language) - I kick your ass, okay? - I'm gonna have to call you back. - Adam, don't hang - Go go, go go. Hey, hey. See you back at the boat. Bye. Oh, oh. 12 people here, Tanya, Nick, Dimitri. I'm not the welfare department, okay? Finding your relatives - My family they all move here to Florida because of me. What happens to them now? They starve? - You know what, I'm fun here as it might look like. Okay, and I don't need your family around skimming the take. - Listen to me, you dumb Jew bastard! (speaking in foreign language) That wire transfer was a phony! My nephew, my sister-in-law, all of them, they all go back on the payroll tomorrow! - Now, you listen to me! You're out, Gus! You don't like it, sue me! - I'm not gonna sue you! I'm gonna kill you! (intense music) - Since my previous statement, I have come to learn that SunSail Casinos now finds itself under new ownership. The new owner has a reputation for honesty and integrity. Adam Kidan is most well enterprise, Kwikee-Mattress. But he also well known as a respected member of his community. While Mr. Kidan certainly in his efforts to clean his track record in business leads me to believe that he will easily transform SunSail from a into an outstanding establishment that the, the gaming - I can't hear you! - Please stop. Please Please stop. Please stop. Please. - [Voicemail] You have - [Michael] Mike Scanlon. - [Voicemail] This mailbox is full. Please try again later. - Is Mike in his room? - I haven't seen him this morning. Oh. I have some dry cleaning - Oh, I'll take it. - Mike? Mike! Mike? (curious instrumental music) - Excuse me. Does Abramoff know I'm here? - Sir, I already told you So if I were you, I - Dude, seriously, I'm She hasn't returned my - [Jack] Well, you sleep in - Oh, thanks for the empathy. I really appreciate it. - Yeah, well, listen. You can win anyone over. Sensible people always negotiate. All you have to do is - Oh, yeah, great, thanks, Jack. You know what, I'm sure about the bogus wire transfer. I'm serious, Jack. What am I gonna say about - Gus, just let me personally apologize for Adam Kidan. He is a social menace. - You gonna apologize for - What phony wire transfer? Holy shit! Gus, that was Kidan's department. Had nothing to do with us, okay? There is nothing that I detest more than the stench of lies, okay? He is a is an errand boy sent by grocery clerks Jack and I have your cash and I can give it to you right now. - You're all out of SunSail. As far as I'm concerned, that's it. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, Gus. We're reasonable people here. Let's talk. all right? - Well, listen, Jack and I would like to settle this without lawyers, okay? - How would that happen? - Gus, our new clients, the Chippewa tribe of Michigan, just made me the highest paid lobbyist in our nation's history. Okay, you know why? Because we help them, Gus. And they help us, and we help you. You help us, you help them, they help you. That's how it works. - Help who, what? - Listen, the bottom line is we have serious financial liquidity now, and we want the opportunity that we can take your into a fleet of 30 around the world. Okay? We're talking about tripling, possibly even quadrupling A floating casino empire here, dude. And we want you to be All right, we can make this happen. I don't want Kidan. - He's a disgusting, fat asshole. The man groped me in front of Gus. - So Kidan just disappeared from SunSail. - How? - Jack works him like a monkey on a stick. All right, you let us handle that. - [Jack] Your pen face - This is the second time I've been a victim of family violence. I had to hire a gorilla Oh, no offense. - None taken. - I got a court order. Gus Boulis can't come near the boats. I've rented an armor-plated car 'cause of that psychotic. - Did you ever think that for giving him a check for $23 million that's absolutely fucking worthless? - I'm talking about my physical safety! His people are moving He's capable of all - Well, just don't do anything stupid. - Hey, I think you broke something. - Well, Adam, we break - He is the all-time champ bastard motherfucker of all time! And I think you'll agree it's time Gus Boulis was gone from SunSail! Ow. - Let us go talk to him. I know how you talk to people. You're as subtle as a fucking chain saw. Look at you! (mellow rock music) - [Woman] Go all right? - [Bernie] Couldn't even - Something interesting happened with Walter over at the casino. He did an annual audit. - Oh, yeah? - Nothing matched. The accountant said that none We're paying for hundreds of thousands worth of lunches at his restaurant. $200,000 for his Redskins skybox. - But it's well known save billions of dollars in taxes. - And that so-called grassroots It was made up of three people handing out a few dozen Kinko's flyers. The guy took us for a bunch of suckers. - Son of a bitch is no good. He's now preying on the (cars honking) - Look, you tell me it's about taking care of things. So I'll even give you a I just don't want to take any more chances with this guy. - I don't know, Adam. - Tony, we're old friends. Don't make me beg. - You know, I had an He used to relax me. Give me your hand. Give me your hand, palm up. Palm up, he used to go, (mumbling) - Ow! Fuck. - He scared me and relaxed Anyway, from what you tell me, this goof, this fucking Greek, deserves a broken leg at least. - No, no, no, violence sickens me. - I can hit him in the fucking head. - No, no, no shooting, please. Look, you'll come down What? The ship's catering director? - What do I know about cooking? - So you'll learn to make gyros. Can it be that difficult? - Gyros, what's a gyros? - Heroes. - Listen to me. I'm telling you now like I've been in this business 50 years. The correct move, is to whack him. - No, Tony, listen. You should know there's Political people. High up, way high up. And there's a lot of money involved. Hundreds of millions of dollars. Everything is very, very, very sensitive. - Okay, I got it covered. Got it covered. What about Abramoff? Is he okay with this? - Jack, he'll never come down. He's in D.C., besides, - Okay, I need 40 grand right away. - I just want you to make sure Gus Boulis never attacks me again It's not funny. - A fucking pen. - It's not funny. - All right, hey, listen. Why don't you go on a vacation? Don't worry, I'll be nice. (dramatic opera singing) - Jack, the I.M.F. is never until Putin deals with - Come on. You don't think we have influence in Moscow? I'm sick and tired of waiting! I've come from Michigan! I know the son of a bitch - [Woman] Excuse me! Excuse me! - You cannot come in here! You have no right to go - Let's talk about the 20 million you took off my people, you and Scanlon. Never mind hiding in your goddamn office. Look, I came all the way From today on, Jack, I'm - [Man] Who was that guy? - Bad karma. Anyway, I know people who know Putin. (gentle intense music) - Ms. Miller? I'm Agent Hanley. Please, come in. You have something you wish to report? - I do. - Ms. Miller, is this a federal issue? - You bet. (soft tense music) - It's a little embarrassing, Jack. - Look, he's a Jewish who's tired of having Eamas lob rockets into his neighborhood. He wanted to build a sniper - With a shipment of a - Okay, we make a lot of money, right? Don't you think it's our It's good karma. - You bought them from the Russians, Jack. - I got a lot of good - Jack, Newsweek is - You got that Time magazine article? The same week that Newsweek calls me a Zionist thug, Time magazine accuses me of supporting Islamic terrorism, because I gave money to Grover to help him mobilize Republican Muslims in Ohio. The press are maniacs, you know that. - A lot of people are talking, Jack. You're drawing too much - Bunch of wusses. - Jack, this isn't the '90s anymore. Look around, it's post 9/11. Bill Clinton isn't running around boasting about budget surpluses, and drinking Krug out of crystal flutes. - Bill Clinton is the best thing that ever happened to Washington, and I say that as a Republican. - Let me spell it out for you. K Street doesn't like the limelight, Jack. The partners and I are - You're wrong on this. (phone ringing) - Susan Schmidt, Washington Post. - Susan, Emily Miller. I'd like to talk to and the Chippewa Indians. 270 P Street, please. - Hey. Who the hell asked you to sit down, pop? - Mr. Boulis, you don't - Yeah, well, I work for a living. I'm busy. - Well, I mean, you got But it's rude, see? Could I have a cracker? I'm starving. - Who the fuck are you, I - I'm looking after Mr. Kidan now. His interests are my interests. He's with me. - Adam fuckin' Kidan can suck my prick. - Really? - Yeah, really. And no goombah wop is gonna waste my time. - Oh. Well, maybe I should explain to you who I am before this goes too far. - I know who you are. You're the senior citizen I'll cut your fucking throat. Okay, gramps? - Oh, okay. All right, fine, I'll go. I don't bother you no more. (speaking in foreign language) - Listen, trust me, Chief. Bernie Sprague is becoming a problem. - Yeah? - [Jack] Can you help - Your guy Scallion told me to fire him. - Scanlon, look, can you - It doesn't exist anymore. Scanlon eliminated it. Right? - Well, look, you know, I've met Musharraf, okay? Newt Gingrich knows my name. I don't need this guy. Can you just give him some job and get him off my back? - Hey, Jack, guess what. - What? - I got the new H2 in metallic red. It's fully loaded and - Great. Hope you enjoy it. Enid! - [Tony] There he is. - He ain't such a tough guy now, is he? - Gyro. - You know, this oughta make that fat Jew happy for a change. - Forget Kidanf, he doesn't it'll be him next. (car engine revving) - Go! - Emily? Baby? Em? You here, baby? Baby. - And over here we have a beautiful portrait by Aaron Shikler, of our 35th president, - Adam, Adam, what are you talking about? Are you nuts? - You said you wanted Gus Five shots in the head. - Five shots in the head. That's what you think I was - Well, I asked him to be my caterer, not whack the guy. Anyway, you were over They can't connect us to it. - Are you serious? Do you have any idea that the grand jury is sitting right now, discussing fraud on the wire transfer? - God, why did I even What was I thinking? Oy vey. So now we got blood on our hands? - Oh, no, no, no, no. They're not coming after me. They're coming after you, Adam. You know why, because I know those guys at Justice and they jerk off thinking about guys like you. - My right hand to God, Jack, I wish I'd never met you! - Fuck you, fuck you, you stupid, goddamn fatty! - What? You're the one who's fat! You fat, fat, fake Jew fuck fat! - Eat me, you goddamn fat cocksucker! Sorry, little issue on the Hill. - Presidential portrait collection. (phone ringing) - What? - [Woman] Mr. Abramoff, Congressman DeLay needs you to come to his office. - Yes, well, if you'll tell Tom, that I'm currently in to see the president of the United States. I have Chief Nokoaht of - [Woman] Congressman drop whatever you're doing, and come to his office immediately. - The president will see you now. - I have to call you back. Mr. President. - [President] How you Looks like you been working out. - Mike, Mike, listen to me, all right? Why, Listen. This could be very serious. Why is the Washington Post calling DeLay about the Chippewa? His secretary says he's freaking out about a story they're running tomorrow. - Jack, me and Emily broke up. - Oh, well, you know, buddy, you got my condolences. But, you know, he's - No, no, no, listen! Emily found out about - But this could be serious, Mike. Pay attention. - No, Jack, you're not listening! She found Crystal's and she got super-fucking pissed and went to the F.B.l., dude! She knew everything She had no mercy! - You told Emily Miller How could you be so fucking stupid? - We were getting married! She wanted us to share everything, Jack! You're married, you know what it's like! Come on, man! - Mike, what the fuck were you thinking? - Hey hey hey! I have my priorities too, man! - You should have been thinking of me! I'm your fucking priority! - Oh, right, right! So when I'm in the pen catching it from some big black dude named Busta, I'll be thinking of Jack fucking Abramoff! We're fucked, dude! It's totally over! Jack! - He's waiting for you. - Hey, Tom. - Come on in here, Jack. My, secretary told you about how concerned I am about this, this story coming out in tomorrow's Washington Post. - Look, they're probably gonna bury it in the National section. Indian gambling is a very dull subject. Trust me. were you thinking, boy? - Tom, I don't know what I haven't-- I did not claw my way out flatlands of Laredo, Texas, to become majority leader of only to be brought down Jack, you remember Reverend Mueller, from my home district, don't you? - Yes. - Take a seat, Mr. Abramoff. You got a lot to answer for, Jack. And there's just so But first, I think it's important that we, sit here together as Reverend. Jack. - [Mueller] In the name Dear Lord, as we sit here under the shadow of a gathering storm, - You know, I think my life is over. - Honey, I don't mean but when did you start smoking? It is the Sabbath, you know. - Jack, have I not always Not always the good - Of course you have. - Then I think you should just, you know, go to whoever, confess and, like, get it over with. - Confess? I have no idea who killed Boulis. - Who's gonna believe you, Jack? And what about all of - Honey, I haven't done other lobbyist in Washington does. Charging high fees, Everybody knows I save those Indian tribes billions of dollars. - Jack, they're saying that you were hiding the money you were making, by splitting it with - Honey, that's no Look, that's just a technicality, really. Look, I'm gonna sell the restaurants. I'm gonna hire the most Those assholes out there are accusing me of selling access? What the fuck do you think We all sell access! - That doesn't make it right, Jack. Goddamn it, stop justifying it! It's all bullshit! - Maybe you're right, honey. I just got caught up in all of it. I should have never gotten in business with And I got greedy with the tribes. And I worry now, I worry so much that I've let down God. - How about me and your kids? What about letting down me and the kids? - That's okay, it's okay. We're gonna be okay. We're gonna be okay. I got lots of friends on the Hill. - We have no friends, Jack. None. All we have are people - I have a statement I'd The good Lord has always told me the difference between right and wrong. All I can tell you now is that if someone is trading on my good name, to get clients or make money, it is unconscionable, it is illegal and he should stop immediately. - I am absolutely and duplicitous words and actions, of Jack Abramoff. - NBC News ln-Depth tonight, a former super lobbyist in Washington, - A lobbyist named Jack Abramoff. - [Reporter] Abramoff and his friends, are some of the biggest players in the conservative revolution. - They believe corruption and illegal activities are a problem. - Mushroomed into multiple investigations. - Exploiting Indian tribes, buying members of Congress, - [Reporter] Potentially bad news for leading members of Congress, - Could prove to be the, the biggest congressional - [Reporter] Could spell big trouble for some big-time lawmakers. - [Reporter] Well, there - This whole thing's turning How the hell are we gonna cope with that? - Look what happened with They failed to cooperate took away their license to do business. I figure we make Choctaws, the Chippewas - That ain't hay. - Hey, guys, you're-- 70 million, Jack. - Oh, that much? Do you know how much money I saved those Indians? they're saying that you and Scanlon defrauded those tribes of the 70 million. - That money's gotta come from somewhere. Who the hell do you We are sitting in shit here, Jack. - Do you have any idea, any of you, how much money I give away every day? - How soon can you be out of your office? Jack! - [Jack] I need a couple of weeks. - You have 30 minutes. - For God's sake, you're on the front page of the Washington Post. - Again? Is it above the fold? (soft mellow music) Enid. Enid? Would you put a call in, to my old friend Simon Bowler at Paramount? Paramount Pictures. It's a movie studio in Hollywood. Call him, and tell him I because I've got a great movie idea I want to pitch to him. Do you want to hear it? - Oh, Jack. (peaceful gentle music) - [Simon] Jack, how are you? I didn't think you still - Ah, you never lose it. And you know what? The folks in Washington, they love movies, even if they pretend that they don't. I mean, every week George &quot;What movie should I be screening?&quot; - At the White House? - You're damn right. - You've been getting Feeling the heat? - Oh, no, no, not at all. It'll all blow over. It's par for the course. - So you're here to pitch - Based on the Old Testament. A biblical epic. A kind of retelling of only this time, it's All right? Now, here's the great modern twist. It's kind of a Bourne Identity, action, like Moses leading his Russell Crowe, perfect for Moses. I think we can get Ridley to direct it. Now, listen, man, this CinemaScope, gig story. Russell Crowe leading his people out of Egypt to the promised land. Happy ending! (phone ringing) Excuse me, Yes? - [Patterson] Jack Abramoff? This is Agent Patterson with the F.B.I. - Yes? (upbeat music) - Michael Scanlon? - Yeah. - Oh, hey, guys, come on in. - [Agent] Hey! - Let me call my wife. What about my phone call? Let me call my wife. - The right of individuals, to lobby the federal government, is protected by the right to petition, in the First Amendment of the - So, what's the problem? - Honestly, I don't know. I don't know. - [Man] Very nice that you finally have - [Jack] Look, I know you but we finally talked and that's the decision we've reached. - Right, there's one tiny problem. - [Pam] What's that? - You're a little late. Michael Scanlon has beat you to the punch. He negotiated a signed deal - Does that mean Jack can't make a deal? - I'm sorry, Pam. They don't need him. They don't need you. He kept track of everything, e-mails, phone conversations, the lot. He was saying how the two of you scammed the tribe of almost $20 million, how the two of you conspired to bribe Ney. The trip to Scotland and meals at your restaurants, It's all out there. They're calling it the - Well, that is bullshit. It's a technicality, he knows it. - Well, it's all out there. - He's given all this shit to Justice? - Well, you know what? Your good buddy used you as his Get Out of Jail Free card. Now, I'm afraid I got more The Indian Affairs Committee has asked to make formal inquiries. They're gonna subpoena you - A Senate hearing? Jack has helped half of the Senate get reelected, and now they're gonna, isn't there someone we can call? Who's the head of the - John McCain. - What are you gonna do? - I'm, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna tell them I That's what I was doing, my job. - Jack! They are not gonna play nice. Do you understand that? I strongly suggest that you go - The Fifth? I might as well say I'm guilty. I will not plead the Fifth! - [Jarvis] I'd like to - Thank you, Senator Jarvis. I want to thank you and the for your tremendous effort on behalf of this investigation, and your continued dedication and effort of many years, on behalf of Native Americans. Mr. Chairman, etched in the is a long and lamentable chapter about the exploitation of Native Americans. It began with the sale of Manhattan and has continued ever since. Mr. Abramoff, you had a relationship with a number of native Is it fair to say you felt these tribes were gullible and naive? - Senator, on the basis I respectfully decline - This tribe was never told, about the secret scheme that allowed Jack Abramoff and Michael Scanlon, to take over $40 million for services dubiously rendered. - Senator, I respectfully - You can continue dodging yet you rip off my you refer to them as - Senator, I respectfully - This is the most extraordinary pattern of abuse and criminal conduct, that has been before this committee the entire 18 years I have served here. Mr. Abramoff, you've proven and to only have been, Do you not feel any shame? - Senator, I respectfully - While these accounts sadly familiar, the tale What sets this tale apart, what makes it truly extraordinary, is the extent and degree of the apparent exploitation and deceit. Mr. Abramoff, have you - Senator, I respectfully no. (mumbling) - No, I no longer wish - Jack. something to say, and I'm gonna say it. - Just be quiet. In fact, if we want to talk all about the money, why don't we start with I personally handed to Senator Jarvis for his reelection campaign. And we know what that money was all about, don't we, Senator? Or how about you, Senator Burman? I donated $30,000, to influence your vote to keep the Marianas open for business. Remember? And what about you, Senator McCain? You should be sitting in the seat that I'm sitting in right now. For years you've taken tens from lobbyists just like me, representing competing Indian tribes, who wanted to open up their own casinos that would have shut my clients down. - [John] Sir, you're out of order! - This man, this son of a bitch is guilty. And if he's allowed to go free, then there's something really wrong going on here. - Sir, you are out of order! - [John] Out of order? - You're out of order! You're out of order! You're all out of order! This whole Senate hearing is out of order! - [John] Seize him! - Remove that man! of senators who love to take money, from anybody who's got And you call me a fraud? You fucking hypocrites! You fucking hypocrites! You ought to stand for something! You should protect the people! Hold on, hold on! I have just completed - [John] Mr. Abramoff. Mr. Abramoff. - [Lawyer] Jack. - Senator, I respectfully - And I'd say to you, Mr. (chattering) - [Reporter] Who the hell - [Man] Look, it's Michael Corleone! - [Man] Hey, John Gotti! - [Man] You're a thief and a racist bum! - [Man] We pray for you, Jack Abramoff! - Mr. President, at the end of the day, I was vilified as Satan, and ordered to pay $21 million to the Indian tribes, as well as 1.7 million to the I.R.S. Bob Ney was sentenced in January, 2008, to two and a half years in prison for allegedly taking bribes from me. In 2005, Anthony Moscatiello were charged with the In 2006, Tom DeLay stepped and resigned his seat in Congress after being indicted In 2009, he appeared on the ABC hit show Dancing with the Stars. My two old buds, Grover and Ralph, they never faced charges of any kind. And poor Kevin Ring, well, he's looking at five years in federal prison. As for Mike, well, he's still free and has taken up work as a as he continues to stay out of jail while cooperating with investigators. (reporters chattering) - [Reporter] Is President - [Reporter] Mr. Abramoff, here! - Is the White House involved? - It's like we're Sorry, honey, just trying (upbeat music) - Hey. - Made bail, huh? - Yeah, so far. Looks like. Thanks for coming, Jack. - Pam would be furious with me if she knew I was even talking to you. - We're still friends, right? I know it was you, Fredo. You broke my heart. Right, you broke my heart. - Or as Harry Truman once said, If you want a friend in Washington, D.C., get a dog. - Jack, you have no they put on me at Justice. I'm sorry, bro. - That's okay, my lawyer tells me you only beat me to it - The student becomes the master. Your serve. - You're a good kid, Mikey. I'll miss you. I was sentenced to six years, at a federal correctional institution in Cumberland, Maryland. Pam and the kids visit me on weekends. I spend the rest of my time leading a Jewish prayer group, Now, guys, you all have a story, right? And teaching a screenwriting class to my fellow inmates. Act Two, a reversal of that incident. That's why if you look Occasionally, I'll find at a photograph of George W. Bush. If it wasn't for all the money I helped pour into Florida, that idiot would never have left Texas, and I think you'd agree we'd all be better for it. And despite the fact that recommended my sentence for fully cooperating with investigators, on his last day in office, Bush refused to even consider it. You see, to this day, I remain the Republicans' worst nightmare. Not because I'm an icon to an era most people would prefer to forget, but because once I'm out of here, God has given me a new mission, to remind the world what a bunch of hypocrites they all are. You see, Mr. President, it's time to think out of the box. I know it's a moon shot. - Thank you. you this letter to a former president, who understands very well I hope you might see my point of view, and consider making an appeal to the right Democrats, who might find it useful to help me, so in turn I can help all of you. - [Guard] Time's up, Jack. - Why? Because my name is Jack Abramoff, and I work out every day. (jazzy playful music) - Never before has an individual, who has been steadfast to our principles, risen as high as Tom DeLay. Tom DeLay is the most effective, He was the most effective whip in the House of Representatives, and I would say he is the most effective majority leader. And thank God Tom DeLay is the majority leader in the House. - Hear hear! (applauding) - I'll just, just add one more, one more piece to it, 'cause I think, we really need to hear from Mr. DeLay. But Tom DeLay is who all of (laughing) - Congressman DeLay. (upbeat instrumental music)