- I'm gonna be honest and I never know what's happening. And I was reading my script I had no idea y'all were dating. And I'm very, I don't know It's kind of weird that I would be excited about this because I don't but I just love it. Two comedians, like dating. Come on. - Okay. We're both. I mean, I'm bitchy - Which is funny. He's like sweet, funny, And then I come in and I'm like, you know- - Yeah. She just knocks down all the pins. - Go for the jugular? - It's like, &quot;Here comes - Yeah. - I just think this will ever to watch. So wait, so do you remember - Yeah. It was a long, long time. Here's the thing I remember. - Well, first of all, shut up. Okay? Second, I remember, what I do remember, Kelly, is that this very studio was where we filmed &quot;Chelsea Lately&quot; For like 4 or 5 years. - Yes. And, Joe, what I do remember on that show. He was on my round table all the time. 'Cause we had comedians on - There was no chemistry - Well, he says I had a crush I also don't recall that, you know? - She doesn't recall anything. - [Kelly] Unless it's - We met through a mutual - Okay. Yes. was doing a show at the Laugh Factory. He's like, &quot;You have to meet (Kelly laughing) &quot;She's my only friend on MySpace.&quot; - On MySpace? - MySpace. So then I went to MySpace. It was really Chelsea. And then she started coming me about the show that she long story short, she came up with an idea that I was supposed to be on it down and she just hated me forever. - He says, I wanted, I Remember Chewy? - He was my little nugget sidekick? - [Kelly] Yes. Yes. - Well, apparently, I went me down and then I hired Chewy. - So, yeah. - But she doesn't remember any of that. - Not gonna have all - Mm-hmm. - Shame on you, Joe. - Yeah. - I used to sit there. The panel used to be right here. She used to be right at her like this. - Oh, I loved your show. - He did, he did. He had a crush on me. I knew that. And... But I was never gonna get on my round table. You know? I mean, to me, they And I was like they were, it a parent in like that dynamic, you know? I mean, I'm sure nobody thought - Do you play mommy now or? I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. We're gonna take that out. Sorry. - Actually, I think we - We're keeping it daytime. No. So, wait, have y'all met - Oh, yeah. I mean, I've met his But, yeah, we've met each... - He was with us home for My whole family came to Whistler. - Oh my gosh. I love Whistler. - That's where your family lives? - Yeah. Well, no. That's where we go for - I went there one year - Yeah. It's beautiful. Now, I'm not doing that. - No, not athletic. - She's like, &quot;No.&quot; - I thought I knew how to ski 'cause I was from Vegas and I used to - Why did you think you could Wait, have you taught him how to ski? - Well. We, he came up to. Skiing is very important to me. I'm very passionate about it. - Really? to Whistler, I said, I know you...&quot; - Oh my god. You're a snow bunny. - Yeah. - I said to him when he - I would ski if I look - Yeah. That's my bikini. - [Kelly] Maybe if I ski, That's gonna be, did you - Yeah, yeah, yeah. We - How did he do? Skiing. - Well, we threw him into I know you think you've skied, So, stop talking about Vegas.&quot; - First of all, she acts like there's no She goes, &quot;Where'd you It's like, no, I didn't learn - In all honesty, no one says Vegas when you say, &quot;Man, I had (audience laughing) - Exactly. - You're alone. On an island. Happy Valentine's Day. But was Valentine's Day a big And is it a big deal for y'all like now? - I mean, no, first of all, I liked the action of, you know when you were a school and you had to to different boys? - [Kelly] I do that with my kids, yeah. I was the, that was like, when I got the party started, I- - I never got that card. (Chelsea and Kelly laughing) Never. - When I was a girl, like I love that, you get all the all the Valentines, you know? And then as I grew up, I was like, this is such a stupid holiday. You know? Like making, forcing people to be romantic on days, you know? - It's forced fun. - Yeah. - So, I- - I appreciate people who Like, please, have as much fun as possible because it's just such a I'm in love with you, and I'm happy to... But don't... (Chelsea and Kelly laughing) - You're really selling it, honey. - But don't go overboard. - [Kelly] Oh my god. You all need a show. - Let me get rid of these. - We hate flowers and cards. - I don't know what I was thinking. I bought her flowers and... - I don't like any organized thing where people say, on this - It's pressure. I don't like, I love giving gifts. It stresses me out so much Like, I don't know why, but do you get each other 'Cause here's my thing. At some Like, it's like, I'm always, I don't need you to buy me some. I'd rather have something I like something made or like a card, or like something like that. - Yeah. I always appreciate - Like meaningful. Much more than any gift. - Yeah. 'Cause you could - Exactly. And I do. - It's me too. (laughs) - Yeah. And we do, we should, yeah. And also, like I think and the people, the woman in your audience about being single, like please I can't to enjoy your singledom. You are not gonna be single for long. Nobody's ever single forever, you know? So, enjoy and embrace it to prepare for the guy or (audience cheering) So I love, though, like I've gifts and like are you the gift you got her? 'Cause like, you were like backing up. You're like, &quot;Yeah, gifts are - No. She loves it. she it's you when you she enjoys it. - There's a lot of thought But, if you're just getting she doesn't like that. - There is no quicker - Yeah. oh I, and I'm like, did you I really would've rather had nothing. - [Joe] Yeah. - It's like, you know, when and you're like, there was - But, even like writing because she's so, like, her - Who cares? - Love is gentle. she's getting, it's like, It's like, she pulls out a red pen. It's like, &quot;Nope, this doesn't make sense. You need a punctuation here.&quot; - There are too many - Yeah. - What's this word? What? - I am a bit of a- - I'm a bit of a buzzkill with that kind of stuff, you know? He'll be like, &quot;Come I'm like, &quot;It's lie down!&quot; I'll come over there - I don't know why he's laughing. I know you say lay down too. - I love it. I really wanna see a So wait, let's talk about I'm very excited. Yours is called &quot;Vaccinated - I came up with the name, Vaccinated and Horny So, now, my horniness is - [Kelly] Yes. Now you have a vessel. Yes. Very, yeah. - So I'm still vaccinated, - Happy Valentine's Day. (audience cheering) So, wait, yours is called, - Yes. - Okay. So, why did you name yours that? - I just, that's how I think Funny is funny. It doesn't matter who you what religion, what color. Funny is funny. - It's the best language. - I enjoy the laugh. - No, laughter is medicine. - Yeah. - And we get to go on tour separately. And then sometimes, we pop - [Kelly] I was gonna ask - So It's really fun when I mean, we just did a show in Seattle, and it was a surprise, like, And he had 14,000 people in the audience so it was a incredible night So yeah, people get really to pop up on each other's shows too. But yeah, we're both on So, our schedules are, it's I never, ever, thought a male comedian, you know? - I, that's what I was gonna say. Did you ever think y'all would Did you ever think you'd date a comedian? - No, I never, no. I never That's... Who cares about comedian? I'm like, &quot;Am I gonna - I love that y'all That's like, I love when we'll pop up on stage and it's like, the audience That's awesome. They probably freak out. - Seattle was incredible. And just to see her about to... 'Cause I always tell the DJ that's gonna announce her to downplay it. - [Kelly] Yeah? (laughs) - You know what I mean? Oh, this next, you're gonna Chelsea Handler. And they go crazy. - [Kelly] Oh my gosh. - And it's just, it's fun - Yeah. of, just like, it's They can't believe that's happening. - And not to be too cheesy, but it's gotta be cool to like like on stage. - Yeah. - Together too. And it's also cool to that we get to go to that you - Yeah. in Louisville, Kentucky Like, those aren't places that So, it's great. - Start with that. - Lead with that. - But you know what? I'm only here for this - I'm only here for your money. - That was so funny. &quot;I - I won't be here unless - Oh my God. I swear to God. You'll kill it if you I love you guys. You can catch Chelsea Handler and Jo Koy out on their nationwide tours right now. Hers is Vaccinated and Horny. His is, I just love saying it. His is called Funny is Funny. Go online for dates and cities for each. Looking at you, Kentucky. Louisville. - Yeah!