Howdy! MEOWMEOWMEOW!!! &quot;Wha... holy cungadero! We have a Cat Tier request! I'm... gonna be honest, I did not expect to get one of these so soon! What's the topic? &quot;Smile&quot; in Undertale and Deltarune? Oh boy. Before we get started: Spoilers for Undertale and Deltarune Don't hassle people for using text to speech And be nice to your fellow theorists when For years now people have wondered, why is this file named &quot;Smile&quot;? Is it some hint about the true nature of Gaster? But before I can answer that... We need to talk about the motifs in Undertale and Deltarune. .... No, not that kind. A motif in fiction That represents an idea or theme within that story. Often if the motif is being represented by an image or object, we call that a symbol... Okay that was a bit abstract of me so let's look at some examples. In Undertale, Light Blue is a symbol used to represent patience. We know this because of the blue attacks, which require us to stay still. But the game also spells this out for us in the Golf minigame, which gives you different flags and messages whenever you roll the ball into this hole. For the Light Blue message, the ball has to be small... Which will only occur if the player leaves the snowball alone for a while without touching it, before scoring the goal. If you completely ignore it, it despawns. So to get this flag, the idea is that he player must wait patiently for the right moment to score the goal. It's important to note that while the colors are often symbolic in these games, Their usage is not strictly enforced. For example: red is often used for danger... But it's also the color of the Player's SOUL, and the color most associated with the first fallen human. Sometimes the game even uses it ironically, by applying it to words that obviously don't follow the rule, Sort of as a joke, which may be frustrating to theorists who are used to looking for counter proofs to prove a theory but... As my English teacher used to say, &quot;English isn't about always following the rules,&quot; &quot;it's about knowing what the rules *are* so that when you break them, it's intentional and sending a message.&quot; For a more lore heavy example of symbolism in Undertale and Deltarune, might I present the Pie? The pie is a recurring symbol used to represent the bonds between the members of a family, particularly the Dreemurs. We see this when Toriel first meets Frisk, and then hurries off to make them a Pie, because she wants them to feel at home with her in the Ruins... we also see this in Deltarune, when Toriel mentions how lonely the house feels without Asgore and Asriel, And how she hopes that sharing a pie with Kris will help them feel a little less lonely. Back in Undertale's New Home, we can see that the trash is full of discarded recipes for Butterscotch pie, Representing Asgore's lost connection to his family, with the death of his children, and the departure of his wife. When you see the pie as a symbol representing this motif of familial bonds... It actually makes this moment in Chapter 2 even more touching, Toriel is symbolically offering to share some of the warmth and love of a family with Kris' new friend, Which is something Susie seems But what if a motif or symbol *is* strictly enforced like a scientific law, is there a word for that? Why yes you delicious little apple, when that happens we call that a signature! One example of a signature in Undertale would be sans' magic doing KARMA damage. Since one of san's motifs is that of a Judge, then it makes sense that one of the ways he manifests said motif is through the use of KARMA. No other characters *as of yet* do KARMA damage, so for now, KARMA is signature magic of sans. Signatures can also be applied to larger groups, for example Bone-shaped-bullets are currently the signature of Skeletons. However one *type* of magic being a signature, does not imply that all magic scales up in the same way. For example, Fire magic is a motif associated with boss monsters like Toriel and Asgore, but it's not exclusive to them. Because it's also used by Pyrope. That said, Signatures and motifs can be used to tie characters together without actually showing them together, For example, by naming this attack &quot;Gasterblasters,&quot; the game is implying that this attack is, somehow, Gaster's signature magic, And that he, at some point taught to Sans and possibly Papyrus. By drawing connections between characters using these tools... Stories can comment on the actions and relations of characters by highlighting similarities in their mentality, situation, or history, AND they can subvert them entirely and thus creating a sense of contrast, or surprise. Okay now that I've.. apparently taught you all fictional tropes like a discount version of the &quot;Game's As Literature Channel.&quot; Lets talk about Smile as a motif, and potential signature of Gaster! A &quot;smile&quot; is actually a symbol in the real world, not as a story telling tool, But as a method of communication in Western Cultures. When we smile at each other, it's used as a common shorthand to convey happiness. So we might smile when we meet up with a friend, receive a gift. Or because we're a minimum wage employee, and our corporate overlords want us to convey that we're happy to interact with our customers. Undertale does have a few instances of a smile being used in this traditional way, Such as the smile Noelle gave Susie when she lent Susie her pencil, The smile Kris gives after Susie tells a dark joke to cheer them up, And the smile the Glad Dummy gives after fusing with their body, although that last one is... maybe not quite so wholesome as the others. But I think by now, a lot of you have already realized, people don't always smile when they're happy do they? As with the minimum wage employee, In psychology we call that a &quot;social smile,&quot; or in tv tropes this would be a &quot;stepford smile,&quot; And Undertale is absolutely full of them. For example when we Cheer Napstablook on, we do so by giving them a &quot;patient smile.&quot; When Toriel tells a bad pun at the end of the True Pacifist run... Papyrus gives her a &quot;pity smile.&quot; A few times, the game actually pressure the player to give a social smile, such as the Mushroom in Tem village, who calls you rude for failing to smile at their dance, Or the time Alphys tells you not to worry about Asgore, and to instead, 'forget about it and smile.&quot; Here we start to move into the dark side of social smiling, that is, forcing a smile to hide your pain. Like when you kill Toriel. Or when you kill Asgore. Or Papyrus... Undyne... Flowey... Mettaton... Sans... Heck even Asriel allegedly did this, at least according to the monsters in New Home, who claim Asriel looked at the humans killing him, &quot;smiled,&quot; and walked away. This is a disturbingly consistent pattern in these games, Because while it might make sense for Toriel, or Asgore, to try to reassure us in death, it seems a bit unusual to imagine *every* boss-fight monster would do this, even in the most tense and trying of situations. And I dare say this might be evidence for the theory about losing Hope being a potential lethal state in monsters. We don't have any *direct* evidence for this of course, but if true, it might explain why... Asgore and Papyrus are so Determined to do whatever they have to, to keep people from losing Hope. And if *that* theory is true, then I dare say, smiling might be a tool for helping a monster boost their determination,and hold on for just a little bit longer. I know that's a stretch, but it would line up with our local smiley trashbag's need to maintain a smile, and crack jokes, as a way of holding onto that last HP. And even if it's not literally true, &quot;Smiling to Boost Morale&quot; does seem to be one of the game's motifs Which is particularly well illustrated In Snowdin, there is an Orange Demon Monster, who says that although, &quot;We all know the underground has problems, we smile anyway.&quot; He seems to be in-tune with the vibes of the monsters in the area, because if you kill Papyrus he'll say that, &quot;just now,&quot; he &quot;felt his smile falter for Kind of like he felt a disturbance without really knowing why. And after you destroy the barrier, the monsters there no longer have to fight against the oppressive weight of spending their whole lives trapped underground. And, so the Orange Demon now says, &quot;Finally, I'll be able to stop smiling!&quot; Reinforcing this idea that he felt obligated to force a smile to keep his spirits from faltering. So there we have it, those are the 3 types of smiles in Undertale, and there's absolutely nothing else even worth mentioning- oh. *flowey laugh* Alright we've talked about all the Smiles as expressions of &quot;joy.&quot; Now, let's talk about smiles as an expression of malice, such as Lancer's dad giving us a &quot;berserk smile,&quot; and... whatever Because while some smiles can be used to reassure, or bolster the spirits, Some... kind of do the opposite. These are your Slasher Smiles, Arguably the best example we have for this one, is none other than our Flowey *can* be good at faking a nice smile, but mainly he's just full of malicious smiles. From friendliness pellets, to Omega Flowey, the moment you see that grin break out, you just know you're about to have a bad time. But one of the things that's very interesting about a malicious smile is, I can't really come up with an objective list of guidelines for spotting one? It seems to be a social has an obvious and immediate resonance with the players who see it. It's pretty common for smiles like this to trip the uncanny valley by being either: crooked, sharp, realistic, or way waaaay to wide, but that doesn't seem to be the only requirement, so we kind of have to go on a case-by-case basis. But for the true Classic Creepy Smiles we've Come to Expect, Copyright 200X, we've obviously gotta go to our Number 1 Rated salesman... Chara! What? Who else would I mean? Chara's &quot;creepy face&quot; is mentioned multiple times, starting with the VHS Tapes in the Pacifist run, And then many *many* times throughout the Genocide run. Most of the time, characters refer to it as Chara's &quot;Creepy face,&quot; but a few interactions... Such as this one with Flowey seem to specify that it looks uh.. sadistically happy shall we say? We don't have to rely on speculation here either, because we actually *see* Chara's Smiling face starting in Waterfall whenever we find a new monster to kill. We also see it and the end of a Soulless pacifist run, and it's mentioned by name as a &quot;creepy smile&quot; In this unused room in waterfall... I'm not sure Toby ever intended to let us see this one? Although... He *does* seem to intend for us to be able to reach Entry 17 in the exact same way, And both this room and the Entry 17 are excluded from the dog-check It's hard to say... Wait... tried to catch a bug but just caught a cold... gosh darn it, Snowgrave is gonna make everything creepy retroactively isn't it... Either way the phrase &quot;creepy smile&quot; certainly seems to imply that this is referring to Chara and not Gaster. But you know what *does* link Entry 17! I mean the song that plays here, not the entry itself... Although.. the wingdings could have a smiley-face... if Gaster ever I can't tell if this is intentional or not.... Now that I think about it... the secret bosses both have items that have the ability to smile at the party too... as Spamton's loaded disk is describe as &quot;a strange disk, you can feel smiling in your hand,&quot; And, should we give Noelle the Devilsknife, she'll tell us that it smiled at her. Anyway! If we look at the sound file of Entry 17, we can see that the... &quot;background music&quot; for lack of a better word is named smile.ogg. This *could* be a machine or something, of course, but given that it's literally a slowed, distorted version of the 'hurtgirl' sound, which is used for muffet's laugh, it's hard to say for sure what precisely this sound could be.... Wait a second! Breaking news! According to our correspondents down on ground level, Sergio and Salticibread, it would seem this sound file is from the SGM collection of soundfonts, which is distorted and stretched... Wait... so you could say to make this sound ... how does Toby keep doing this... I can't even... Right! So Smile.Ogg! At the moment... This sound is the thing most directly connecting Gaster to the dark world, the bunker, and Spamton So at this point it's become something of his calling card. If we take into account his choice of English Font... Japanese Font, the secret bosses, and all of these spooky smiling sprites and their various connections to either Spamton, Jevil, or Gaster himself, Then I think it's fairly reasonable to say we can place Gaster next to Sans, Chara and Flowey in terms of &quot; who use 'Smiling' as a big part of their motif. But is his a Cheshire cat smile like Spamton's and Jevils? Or a forced smile like Sans, and this orange demon? Por que no los dos? Why not both? Undertale and Deltarune both have a storied history of challenging boss* characters flashing a menacing smile even when they're depressed, soulless, or otherwise living in torment, And it seems to me that Gaster will likely be no exception. His stats are absurdly high. And he has countless references to demons and the devil, so it does seem likely that he will be thrashing our asses at some point, but he also built the Core, which has been a huge boon to all of Monsterkind. If we choose to read into the sound test room, one of the songs here is named &quot;Happy Town,&quot; which certainly* And if we consider the impact he had on the king and queen, it seems like they are trying to spread joy as well, the queen even saying &quot;I Just Want to Make Everyone Smile, And If I Become An Evil Villain To Accomplish That Which... smells like foreshadowing if you ask me. I think the main questions remaining are, does this use of the Smile motif create yet another link between Chara and Gaster? They do both exist in a nebulous sort of space, and do seem to have cornered the market on demons and devils as a motif... Although I'm not sure how this will end up applying to Deltarune with Chara's status in the ambiguous state it's in... Is this giant-cheshire-cat grin yet another link between Gaster and Ice-E? I dunno! I really hope not! But to me the much more interesting question is... Is this another link between Gaster and Ralsei? Let's put aside the fact that Ralsei is the &quot;Dark Prince&quot; And all the symbolic imagery tying Gaster, Jevil and Kris to the devil, Because honestly, these games are so full of characters with allusions to lucifer, it deserves it's own video. Instead let's focus *purely* on the symbolism and motifs within the game itself, and ask ourselves... Is Ralsei sus *because* he has personally spoken with W. D. Gaster? Well let's see... when we first meet him he uses the same &quot;ware&quot; pronoun that Gaster does in Japanese, but that could just be a coincidence. despite never having met them, but let's give him the benefit of the doubt here and assume he was just spying on us and over-heard it somehow. Even then, Ralsei is still a very unusual He seems to know more about the dark worlds than anyone You might argue he knows this because he's the &quot;Dark Prince,&quot; but Queen doesn't know about the Roaring, So clearly being the ruler of your dark world doesn't automatically How did he learn about the Roaring? How does he know so much about the dark fountains? His entire town is completely empty, leaving him all alone in the dark, like the goner vessel, or whatever it is we hear screaming for help in the UNUSED code. But that might *not* mean he's connected to Gaster, what if he just heard about this stuff from the Knight? Or, what if he was just born with this knowledge, The same way it seems like the computer lab just magically spawned despite being created literally even if that's true, that still suggests either Ralsei's item, or the closet, was in some way connected to Gaster. Because the knowledge Ralsei starts with, The Legend of Deltarune, Is the exact same message we see Gaster reciting in the Deltarune homepage in July of 2017. In addition, while Susie gets a &quot;Devilsknife&quot; for beating Jevil, as a sort of nod to her dare-devil slash troublemaker attitude, Ralsei gets a, &quot;puppet-scarf,&quot; for defeating Spamton. Who is Ralsei a &quot;puppet&quot; to, if not Gaster and/or the Knight? He also names Castle Town after the name the Player gave Gaster during the Character-Creator segment. How could Ralsei know about that or from Kris who... doesn't *seem* super talkative, but they did have that moment together in the cell, so who knows. Either way, this would explain Ralsei's religious motifs of &quot;praying&quot; and &quot;worshiping,&quot; As well as acting as sort of a missionary to Lancer and his father. It explains how Ralsei seems to know so much about the Light World, even He had to have gotten them from somewhere, and it explains his constant up-beat attitude, Even when he's being hurt, or insulted, or ignored. In fact, if we want to dig reeeally deep, which, as you might expect, can only be equipped by Ralsei, and gives him the effect &quot;Smiley.&quot; It even has And... you can call that a coincidence if you like but... there are plenty of items that give effects and *don't* have their own special icon. Y'know most special weapons just use a little up or down arrow, and even if he *had* to put a smiley here, There are lot of icons he could have used aside from the wingding. Wait! Hold up. Ralsei uses this icon in Chapter 1 too, for Kindness? Wha- okay look, I know it sounds like I'm jumping at shadows, but none of the other icons are like this. Rude isn't like, a frowny face, for example, and a smiley-face J wing-ding is a really odd way to symbolize kindness? Like, if the Cheerscarf came first I could understand, but Cheerscarf wasn't added until Chapter 2, So we just have this inexplicable wingding here in a sea of non-wingding Wait... I could maybe excuse the smiley face, but there are a *lot* of ways to draw a snowflake, like famously so, why is Toby so partial to using snowflakes that resemble this wingding? Is... is this just my life now? Is every new chapter of Deltarune gonna give us one new wingding in the stats menu, and one new UNUSED entry? Doing a Snowgrave route *does* give us this Chapter's &quot;Darker Yet Darker&quot; callback too... huh.... That's either a weird coincidence Or Toby is playing the craziest game of 4D-Storytelling-Chess I've ever seen. Actually now that I think about it... that point... the Dealmaker, which increases your money dropped, corresponds with the $ ...the two phones are parenthesis.. huh.... I should probably get out of here before I lose what's left of my sanity. What do you guys think? Is Smile a calling card for Gaster? Or is it like Chara's connection to the color red, And we need to take each example on a case by case basis? Is Ralsei secretly Gaster's puppet? Or is there something else going on here? Lemme know down in the comments and thank you again to Monsterbox I... Wha... Thirty... Thirty THOUSAND subs?!?! I.. I haven't even been doing this for a year. Wha- where are you all coming from? Apparently there are people discussing my videos in other languages now?! What is this I don't even?! I guess it's time to launch the Spanish-sister channel so I can make my videos more accessible? I can't believe people are liking my stuff To that end, please welcome aboard Segio C. our Spanish translator... And Fredz from the Fredz Dimension, a fellow Youtuber himself, who will be re-sycing the Spanish versions. You should totally check out his channel, he does a ton of stuff including roleplaying, card games, gaming, LARP, and Also please welcome Mollystars our newest editor who somehow survived the [HORRIBLE BURNING] trial by fire that was the application process! And Until next time... wait... What? Uh?!? F... fanart? Oh. My god. Salticibread made me a custom-sprite?! I mean, it's not technically WAIT THERE'S MORE?! Holy cungadero someone made a Reddit of my channel, and people are drawing actual-hand-sketched pictures of my weird bread-based-avatar?! HN! I... I don't know what to say! I've never Thank you all so much for all the Being on youtube can come with a lot of unexpected stress and fear, but you all give so much to me, I cannot thank you enough. Whether you're one of those hardcore fans waiting to comment the second a video drops.. One of my extremely generous patrons supporting me directly, or just a casual viewer discussing my weird little videos with other people... It means the world to me. Truly, W... words fail me but... thank you. DON'T FORGET TO [Like and Subscribe] FOR MORE