She can play the violin very well. You must have never seen her standing quietly under the tree playing the violin. At that time, when everyone saw her playing the violin, they would never forget her. What should I do? Goodbye countless times. Say goodbye countless times. We are entangled with each other, Tang Shaolei, that dazzling talent on the stage is the one you are destined for, right? And I am just a passer-by in your life. It is said that love is easy, but it is really difficult. I want to let you go, but I will only look forward to it more. I'm running towards you, but I won't say goodbye and don't meet again. Maybe only in this way can we really let go. This issue will be kept secret for now. Thank you for your concern. President Tang, may I ask if you have proposed to Miss Liang Ruojie? How long have you known each other? Tell me. Let's talk about it. We are very concerned about this issue. Let's talk about it. President Tang, President Tang, congratulations to you two, Ruojie, you are about to enter the marriage hall. Congratulations, thank you, Sanshi. You still remember what you once told me, which is buried deep in your heart. Are you hurt? The pain that has never been healed is now in front of you. Congratulations, you have finally recovered. Many people are fine. I'll leave first. You must be happy. I'll tell you a joke. In the past, don't make trouble with me. I just thought it would be nice to blow the wind with such a person. Look, I told you a joke. If you don't listen, it's okay. It's okay. Shaolei, why did Zhong Keke call you Sanshi just now? Are you sorry? Ruojie. I think. Why don't you talk when you are alone? I like you, you, what did you say? Do I have to repeat these words again and again? Do you know how much courage I mustered up to say it? I was really defeated by you. That's good. I say again no cocoa, please stop talking. I know you want to make me happy, but I don't think this joke is funny at all. I am serious about thank you. When a girl confesses her love to a boy, she only says thank you. So what does this mean? It's self-evident, right? This means this means you understand me, I understand, I understand, cocoa, can I ask you a question? If you ask me what I should do to make you happy and happy, it's all given by myself and others can't help. You can't give it, don't worry about me. I understand how you can be so cruel. The person you sent blessings to is actually Sanshi. Are you going to watch your Sanshi marry someone else? Sanshi, do you still remember that you once told me that thing buried deep in your heart? Is there any pain in you? The pain that has never been healed is now in front of you. Congratulations, you are finally healed. How can I blame you? How can I bear to blame you? Everything is me. What I should question is myself, Tang Shaolei, who caused all this today. In fact, we are all you. Since you must embarrass me so much, I want to see how long you people can be happy. Where is the president, Director Zanzhong? Keke suddenly said that he was going to inspect the yacht club. She went back to Guanlang Village. Maybe she said yes. The new mission has always been mysterious. I don't know what the new mission is. Anyway, it's your Dingheng Club's inspection of the situation. President Tang, don't you know? When did you and Coco leave this morning? President, do we want it? Contact the people at the yacht club and ask them to send a car to pick her up at the station so that we can continue the meeting. First, let me show you the panoramic plan of our resort. It covers sea view villas and private yachts. Hey, hey, President Tang, are you at odds with our director? But they went out like this that night. Wait, what about my goddess? What about your goddess? Liang Ruojie. Please ask her to sign your name and she will become your goddess. Don't change the topic. Why do we always think that Director Zhong This sudden trip to investigate seemed to be a deliberate attempt to avoid President Tang. But when President Tang left that day, his face was really livid. Could it be that they have broken off their relationship? Your phone rang. Are you sure it's me? I didn't bring my mobile phone, and I didn't bring it either. It's okay. Both of you are crazy. Ignore him. Director Xu, what are you doing? We are discussing that creative project, creative project, creative project, Zhong Keke. Director Zhong went to the yacht club. Director Xu, if there is nothing, we Let's withdraw first. Let's go first. President of the Yacht Club, you have nothing to do with Director Zhong. It's okay. It's fine. President, nothing happened. I left first. It was my fault that day. I was too excited. I kept asking you and I apologized to you. You didn't do anything wrong. Why? Apologize to me because I was able to understand it at the time. I have been separated from you for eight years. I can't ask you. Nothing happened and you experienced nothing during these eight years. I was too greedy. But Shaolei, we are now walking in front of each other. We've been together for so long. We've been together for so long. It's enough for me and me. Ruojie, if I had kept Shaoyin at that time, maybe you could have reunited long ago and we wouldn't have been separated for so long. Don't say that. How can I blame you? Shaolei, let's start over, okay? I promise you that I will hold you tight and give you enough space, especially everything that happened to us in the past. Let's just forget about it. Okay, okay, doctor, it's nothing big. Does your foot still hurt when you walk recently? It no longer hurts. From the X-rays, the fracture in your ankle has healed and is recovering very well. There are basically no traces. Doctor, will she still be able to do it after she recovers? Dancing, you know? She dances very well. She is a natural dancer. No problem. But as the old saying goes, it takes a hundred days to strain your muscles and bones. So I suggest that this lady should not do too strenuous exercise in the recent period. You can only wait until the foot injury is completely healed so that you can better devote yourself to your future work. Are you a doctor? Her whole life is on me. Don't worry. I'm sorry. I'll take a call. Doctor, please tell me when I need it. Come for a re-examination. Sister, why don't you go back? I'm doing this for work. I have to go to the yacht club for an on-site inspection. Is it related to your Mr. Tang again? Do you think it's the same? It's best if you think about it openly. It's not a one-on-one relationship. Brother, I know. I know it. When will you go back? After I finish my work, I will go home to see my parents. Then be careful. Okay, you know. Bye, Miss Zhong Keke. We are from the DH Yacht Club. We are here to pick you up. Please get in the car. I didn't say we needed to be picked up. It was President Tang who sent us to pick you up. Please hurry up and drive, please. We are Yifan. Thank you very much for this time. If I can't hear you, don't say thank you to me, okay? I'll help you out with Dongdong that night. Are you welcome? Okay, I'll tell you Dongdong. He has become a living sign for us now. Many people come here just for him. Don't look at him. His ability to attract customers is very good. Recently, there have been a lot of rumors about Miss Liang Ruojie, a violinist living in the United States, who returned to China and fell in love with Tang Shaolei, the president of the Dingheng Consortium. At Miss Liang Ruojie's solo concert, can you please turn up the volume louder? Her love with President Tang Shaolei is about to blossom. Many fans who have named Miss Liang Ruojie a goddess don't know what they think. She has always been praised as a classical goddess. She is about to bloom. I believe many people will be sad when they marry. Oh my God, they are getting married. I am a fan of Liang Ruojie. Her violin album is really good. They are getting married. I am so happy. Yes, some are happy and some are sad. Is that right? It can't be because of this, right? This stinky girl won't answer the phone. Sanshi, do you still remember the pain you once told me about the pain buried deep in your heart? The pain that has never healed is now in front of you. Congratulations, you are finally healed. Why did Zhong Keke call you Sanshi just now? Are you sorry for Ruojie? I want to be alone for a while. Didn't I agree with Shaolei to forget everything in the past and start over? Why do you still think about these things? Liang Ruojie, what's wrong with you? Is this Miss Liang Ruojie? Yes, please tell me who you are. It doesn't matter who I am. If you don't tell me, I'll hang up. Miss Liang, I don't know if you are interested in the matter between Tang Shaolei and Zhong Keke. Who are you? Ah, Miss Liang, if you have time, you can come to the Wave View Village. Sorry, the number you dialed is not in the service area for the time being. President, please call me. You came just in time. Contact the people at the yacht club immediately and ask them if they have received Coco or fed Wundt. Can you help? I am Xiao Chen, the driver of the yacht club. The Miss Zhong Keke you mentioned, PK 66682, does not seem to have arrived. The long-distance bus from Shanghai has arrived, but Miss Zhong has not been seen at all. Could it be that you got her time wrong? President, the driver didn't pick up Ms. Zhong. Please don't go out alone around us. Several robberies and murders have occurred. It's scary to target single women like us. Why is President Tang so anxious? President Tang is really scary. Although this Several cases have occurred in the suburbs, but we can't take it lightly. The elevator is here. Come on, please. You're in such a hurry. I'll wait for the next one. Okay, but I'm really carrying a flat tire. Okay, don't complain. Hurry up and change the tire. Use it. Strength, what's going on when you're a vegetarian? Master, everything's fine. The tire has a puncture. The tire has a puncture. Where are we going? Aren't we going directly to the resort? President Tang has instructed us to take you somewhere. Go somewhere. You can get in the car first, right? What are the directions and where? We go straight ahead on this road and it goes up the mountain. Miss Zhong, don't worry. Change the tires and leave immediately. Leave immediately. No, that's okay. It's okay. Get in the car first. Get in the car. Get in the car. Get in the car first. Get in the car first. Get in the car first, get in the car first. It's windy. It's okay. Please ask the two brothers. I'm a little urgent to urinate. I want to go there. I can't do it. What I mean is, look, everyone is here. Can you see it? You can hold it in for a while longer. I can't hold it in any longer. I'll hold it in some more. I can't hold it in anymore. OK, OK, OK, go, hurry up. If you have three urgent needs, this big brother is so good at running around. Why are you running around? President Tang is still waiting for Miss Zhong. You can't let Miss Zhong go to President Tang by herself, right? It's so funny, yes, it's so funny. My legs are not that long. I'll leave first. There must be something wrong with these two. Where is this? My phone is out of battery and there's no one around. What should I do? What's the pain? What's the matter? Just when I was going to the toilet, I bumped into an unknown object and then I started to bleed. It was like I was hurt by that thing. I know it hurts. I know it hurts. Let's go. Let's get in the car quickly. No, please help me. Hands like this, slow down, it hurts, it hurts, slow down, what should I do if you bleed so much? It's okay. I brought that band-aid myself. You still carry these things with you ? I'm so used to it. I've loved wrestling since I was a child. Let's go. How about a walk? Do you have any news about her? President, I asked all the long-distance bus drivers from Shanghai. Indeed, there was a girl like you mentioned who passed by here, but Miss Zhong didn't seem to show up. Ming made good use of me. I understand, uncle and aunt, why are you? Keke didn't come back? Keke didn't come back. What's wrong? Didn't she tell you that the cooperation plan went well? She was in a hurry every time she called and did n't say so much. It's good that it went well. She's okay, Shaolei. You, I'm handling official business nearby and stopped by to see you. If it's okay, I'll get there first. You, are you sure that President Tang asked me to meet here? Of course, Miss Zhong believes us. President Tang, this is where he is. I said I have something very important to tell you, so I chose such a remote place. Please come over here. You guys can go up first. I'll take a call. 33. Okay, bye, hello. Hello. I'm Tang Shaolei, President Tang. Do you want to see me? Coco is with you? What do you mean? Forget it, it's okay. Wait, Coco, did something happen? Why are you here? I want to ask you, why are you here? Coco, she, I can't explain this to you now. Let's go first. Back to the yacht club, I still have very important things to deal with. Is it you? Is it me? You know what I'm talking about. Where is Coco? Where is Zhong Coco? How do I know Xu Ying? I advise you to stop it as soon as possible before things get too big. Why do you think it was me who did it ? If Zhong Keke disappears, go find her. Why are you asking me? Where is she? I, I am just telling you as a friend now that that woman is not worth what you have to do for her. Where is Coco? I don't know. I will ask you again for the last time. Where is Coco? I don't know. Xu Ying, I tell you that you'd better start from now on. Pray that Zhong Keke is okay, otherwise I won't let you go. Contact the police station. If you can't find him, find him immediately. He disappeared in Guanlang Village. Even if you turn around and look for him, you still have to find the president. Is there any news yet? As long as there are calls, please answer them all. If you hear it, is it the president? We have already sent orders. We are all looking for Miss Zhong. Come quickly, Shaolei. No, Ruojie, stay here. Don't run around. Shaolei, hello. Miss Liang, have you arrived at Guanlang Village? I've already Very good, good. Now go to the place I designated to tell you. You will know what you want to know. Drink water first. If you are not thirsty, feed Mr. Tang. Okay, okay, okay. You have to arrive a little later. Okay, okay, I will tell you. Miss Zhong, Miss Zhong, President Tang has something to do. He has to be late, so wait for him. Brother, you just told me that President Tang has something important to tell me, right? You know what it is, please reveal it to me. I'm just in charge of pick-up and drop-off. I don't know much about other matters. Miss Zhong, please stay calm. Don't be restless. I'll go over there first. How about a phone call? No problem. That's great. Is there any news from President Tang? I'm here because I have some questions. Let me report the matter to you. Miss Liang just hailed a taxi and went out, but she was a little strange. She asked us about a place. It was very remote and not a tourist attraction, but she had to go. Sorry, the number you dialed is not in the service area at the moment. Please Call me later and give me the address. DEBBY. Okay, Coco, where are you? The self-abuse index has reached a new peak. This idiot, Ms. Liang, please tell me what exactly do you want me to see? Coco Ruojie, why are you here? What about Tang Shaolei? What does Shaolei mean? Why are you in this place? How did your foot get hurt? That us. I didn't wait until I had something to do. I know it's a bit late now, don't worry. Tang Shaolei, he will be here soon. You can just chat here quietly and have a heart-to-heart relationship with him. Everything will be fine with him. Do n't worry. My feet, what's wrong with you? My feet? Are you okay? Don't make trouble. Ruojie, please leave quickly. Don't make trouble. Ruojie, please leave quickly. President Tang will be here later. Didn't he agree that President Tang will be here soon? Don't shut up. Zui Ruojie, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's talk. Why bother? Coco, Coco, Coco, are you okay? It scared me to death. I almost died in her hands. Two big brothers, what on earth do you want? Just for our personal safety. I can tie you up temporarily. Now it's time for our President Tang to show up, right? What do you want to do? President Tang, isn't this question simple? I'm asking you to come today. It's nothing more than asking you to do a multiple-choice question in front of these two women. Which one to choose? Let them go, I will stay. No, no, President Tang, haven't you heard clearly? The only ones who can leave here are you and one of them, not the two of them. Anyway, do you want to keep this one today or take this one away? Please choose Tang Shaolei. Don't be stupid. They are driving a wedge between you and Ruojie. Can't you see the relationship between you and Ruojie ? Do you still remember those days when you lived in Guanlang Fishing Village? One day, Yifan's door couldn't be opened. How did I open it for you? Do you remember? Get out of the way. One day, let's continue talking about you. You were waiting for me downstairs in my house. Then you put your hand on my shoulder. What happened next? Do you remember? Who and who came out? Why is it you? You should know who to choose. Come on, go away, Shaolei, don't fight, just take my heart away like this. No matter where you are, I always believe that it's because of you that all our memories are floating in the wind. I pray sincerely that it's not me, Ruojie, Keke, Ruojie, Ruojie. Coco, are you okay? Yang Ming, I'm okay. What's the matter? Ambulance. Ambulance. There are citizens injured. Citizens injured. Please support. Please support. So much blood has been shed. I remember those days when we always said good night to each other. You held me tightly without any pretense. His feet, his feet, he is an evil person, complain first, you know, you can appear again, but love may have been destined. Thank you, Yang Ming, thank you again. I forgot, are my legs okay? Should I go to the hospital? I can't go to the hospital. Our place is so small. I had to go to the hospital the next day. My parents knew that I was injured. You couldn't tell my parents that I was really fine. Look, it's fine. Let's go. It's fine. It's fine. Mom and dad. I'm back. But why are you back now? Coco, I missed you, so I asked Yang Ming to take me back. Why didn't you say hello in advance when you came back? This is called a surprise attack. It scared you a little. Are you hungry? Have you eaten? No, why don't you put your bags upstairs? Wash your hands. Your mother will cook it for you in a moment. Let's start dinner right away. Come on, Keke, you, what's wrong with your feet ? I just had a sprained back. It's okay. I went up first. Is it okay? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I'll go. Look at her, Shaolei, be careful what happened to my hand. It's okay. Everything is over. I had a dream just now. It was so scary. I thought you shouldn't think about it so much. It was just a dream anyway. Coco, Coco should be with Yang Ming. Yang Ming is here too. Okay, don't think so much. The most important thing for you now is to take good care of yourself. Shaolei, my hand. Shaolei, my hand. Do n't worry. The doctor said it's nothing serious. Just take good care of yourself. Shaolei, I can do anything with you. Don't be afraid. It's all common food. It's all common food. But I can't eat your mother's cooking in Shanghai. It 's open to eat. It's open to eat. Today's fish is particularly delicious. It's delicious. It's delicious. Eat more. Uncle and aunt, I came here because I wanted to I solemnly confess my love to the two of you. Is it a request? I like Coco, so I hope you two will agree to my dating her. Coco, you, Coco, what's wrong with you? I told you that he was joking with you. I'm not kidding. I'm serious because I experienced something that made me determined. I want to protect Coco Coco for the rest of my life. Where are you? I, I, I'm going to pour a glass of water. Yang Ming, the revolution has not yet succeeded. You still have to work hard. It doesn't matter. I will definitely work hard. Come on, come on, come on, eat more, Yang Ming, come on, come on, come on, come on, eat more, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, boss, our meal should be faster. Sorry, come on. Here are the dishes. Thank you, boss. We need to add more dishes. Thank you. Wait a moment. Okay. Two servings. One pot of fresh food. Oh, Dongdong. Dong was here just now. So, this kid, Dongdongdongdong, Dongdong, why are you disobedient? It's not that you don't want to be skinny. Why are you bleeding so much every day? What's wrong with Dongdong? Don't scare me. Why are you bleeding? I don't know why you're bleeding so much. What's going on with Dongdong? What's going on? What's going on with Yifan? Why is it bleeding? There is so much blood. Go to the hospital. Be careful. Be careful. What's wrong? Sorry, everyone, please be careful. Dongdong, Dongdong, what's wrong with mom? Are you feeling uncomfortable? Dongdong, do you know that every adult has to experience bedwetting, fever, and nosebleeds before they really grow up? So now you have experienced all three, you have to hold yourself to the standards of a real man. Did the doctor's results come out just now? Several doctors have had a discussion. Based on the current condition of the child, I suggest that you be hospitalized first and then we can do further careful examination. iOOz 007 0OZ IOOZ Ruojie, what's wrong with you? Why are you up? Come on, I'll help you in to rest and be careful. Why do I have no strength in my hands? Why can't I hold anything? Didn't you tell me? The doctor said I'll be fine soon. Why can't I hold anything yet? Ruojie, Ruojie, please calm down. This is only temporary for me. I want to play the piano, but I can't play it. What should I do? Find the best doctor in the world. You'll be fine. I want to play the piano. What should I do if I can't play? Please trust me. You'll be fine. Just like a flower, it blooms quietly. I don't know how Ruojie's hand injury is doing. After meeting your smile, I slowly chose to die and became a migratory bird flying aimlessly in the sky beside you. I gave my wings to you. I should be more beautiful so that you won't feel tired so quickly. After this That person should treat Ruojie wholeheartedly, right? But why in my heart, congratulations to you two on your upcoming marriage? Ruojie, you are so great today. Congratulations. Thank you, Sanshi. Do you still remember that you once told me that thing buried deep in your heart? Is the pain that has never been healed? The pain that has never been healed is now in front of you. Congratulations, you have finally recovered. Maybe I am still thinking about you, maybe I can still afford to lose. The memory of you is the meaning of my existence. There will always be that person who expects you too. I can hum this song softly for her. These are no longer things you should care about. I should be more beautiful so that you won't feel tired of it so quickly. In the end, I almost forgot the original breath of the flower. I have forgotten all the meaning of the bird's flight. I want to hug you and him, how should I treat him? Maybe I still love you, maybe I'm still hurt. How did you get here? I couldn't find you in Guanlang Fishing Village. I knew you would definitely be here because of Yifan. You told me that you have a secret about you. He doesn't even know what it is. What kind of secret is there? Listen to him talking nonsense. You just made it clear that you don't want to share it with me. It doesn't matter. I can wait. I believe that one day you will definitely Will you be willing to share all your thoughts with me? Is this kind of waiting worth it? In fact, this sentence is also what I want to ask you. There is a kind of waiting that makes the years wasted and neglected the whole life. I like him, right? I really want to ask you this kind of waiting. Is it really worth it? Who said I'm waiting for him? Since there is no waiting, then don't look back or your eyes should be fixed on the future and look forward. I'll stay with you. Mom and dad, please don't send Yang Ming off. Drive slower on the road. Got it? Aunt Yang Ming, Keke, I left it to you. What are you talking about? Dad, look at you kid, why are you so embarrassed? How can you say anything today? At this point, I have already talked about some words, so I opened my mouth and told you directly, Keke, I am very I like this kid Yang Ming. He is very much like me when I was young. He is a good man who is down-to-earth and can be trusted for life. Of course, Coco's father can't influence your decision, but I hope you will seriously consider taking hold of what you can see in front of you. Happiness, okay, okay, I know, Dad, I know, I know, okay, let 's go first, okay, be careful on the road, uncle and aunt, bye, bye, bye, coke. Before leaving, give me, Yifan, this brat, a message for him. She is a typical example of a daughter-in-law who forgets her parents. This criticism is quite pertinent. I will definitely bring it to Ruojie. Is she okay? You don't have to worry about her. I'm sorry. It's all my fault. Don't think too much and put so much pressure on yourself. Ruojie. Jie, it's good if I'm there. You can take care of Ruojie. I'll be relieved. Let's go up. Coco, I'll go first. Yang Ming, I promise you. As for what you told me at the beach that day, I've thought about it seriously. Let's try dating. Congratulations to you and my best wishes to you, Keke, you will definitely be happy. We all need to be happy. Let's go up, Shaolei. If you really understand me, please grasp the happiness in front of you now. You must be happy. What do you want from me? Keke and Ruojie have returned. Keke and Ruojie are back. It's great. Why are you telling me this? Ruojie's hand is injured. As for how serious the injury is, will it affect her playing the piano in the future? We do n't know yet. We don't know yet. It was you who found it. Theirs is the one you hope is him. You should be wondering now why those two people have n't contacted you yet, right? I don't know what you are talking about because they have been taken away by the police because they have been taken away by the police. Yang Ming, I gave you a chance. I gave you a chance and I advised you to stop. You said it was me who did it. Do you have any evidence? Where is your evidence? Xiaoying, wake up. Those two people have been taken away by the police. Do you think we Is there no evidence? It was me who did it, but I didn't let them hurt them. In fact, I did hurt those two innocent people. You feel sorry for them both when they were hurt, right? What about me? What about me? The people who hurt me can get away with it. The people who hurt me can get away with it. The people who hurt me, why don't the police arrest them? Xiaoying, I'm really sad that you have become like this. Do you think you have done something wrong? You still don't think you have done something wrong? Lawyer, yes. I can find a lawyer. I can find my lawyer. I want to find a lawyer. Right. There is one more thing I want to remind you about Lu Tao's poisoning. I also told the relevant departments, so you'd better ask your lawyer to prepare in advance. Prepare in advance. Yang Ming, how could you do this to me? I hope you can completely wake up and stop doing those unreasonable things. Whether you can or not Understand that I am all for your good, I am all for your good, for my good, I don't want to see you again in this life, get out of here, then we won't see each other again, then we won't see each other again, everything between us is End it today , end it today, just take my heart away like this. No matter where you are, I always believe that because of you, all our memories are blown by the wind. I pray devoutly, but you never open your heart. You always Are you hiding? Can you muster up the courage to look into my eyes? If this is our end, then say goodbye. When the curtain comes down, dance with me one last time. Remember those days when we always said goodnight to each other and you held me tightly. I don't have any pretense. When can I go home? I want to go home. Be obedient. Do you still remember what I told you? To be a real man, you must withstand these injections, hospitalization, etc., etc. You would use these words to deal with me. I didn't deal with you. Did you know that when I was ten years old, I was injured while practicing Taekwondo? You saw the comminuted fracture in my right foot, which was extremely painful. I couldn't hold back the tears no matter how hard I tried. Go down, but this experience made me understand what it means to be a real man. But I am only five years old and half your age at that time. Why do n't you want to grow up? Well, you can grow up if you don't want to. Then I will tell Coco not to be so miserable. I'm waiting to marry you. Is Sister Coco really waiting for me to grow up and then marry me? Of course you don't know. She has been telling others that she has a young boyfriend. Okay, then I will reluctantly agree to stay here. But how long will I have to stay? I can always ask. Is this Dongdong good today? Can you two come to the office with me? Come on, come on. Maybe the doctor will tell you that I can be discharged from the hospital. Jie, I found a particularly delicious pastry two days ago, and I brought some here for you today. Why is Qin on the ground? I'll come by myself. Ruo Jie, are you okay? Do you want me to be okay or not? But things have come to me today. I feel like we don't have to go around in circles anymore. I don't understand what you mean. I know that a lot of things happened between you and Shaolei. Although you don't say it, I also know that I believe that women's intuition is not wrong. Coco, leave Shaolei to me. Well, I can't live without him. I really can't live without him. Ruojie, do you know that my hands have no strength at all now? I may never be able to play the piano again. But really, even if I beg you to give me Shaolei, okay? I have you, a family who loves you, Yang Ming, and a good career, but I have never thought about arguing with you. Believe it or not, between me and him, in fact, we are just that, and I don't know how to argue with you. Anyway, it's definitely impossible for me and Tang Shaolei. Didn't you already see it that day? I have promised to be with Yang Ming. Really, of course, I can't do it because I want to trick you into a lifetime of happiness. Coco, I'm sorry, maybe I shouldn't beg you like this. Of course you shouldn't. You didn't do anything wrong. Let's talk about it. Liang Ruojie is a classical goddess in the minds of many people. There is no eternal winner in the world of love. I just hope that I won't be completely defeated. I came to you today to tell you about Li Dongdong's test results. I think you all should know that bone marrow matching is a very complicated and difficult to succeed process. First of all, I will start with his relatives. If even the relatives cannot be matched, then the next step will be to go to the China Marrow Bank to search. Match the bone marrow as closely as possible, but if we really get to that point, I'm afraid the chance will be even slimmer. It's impossible. It's impossible for my son to have this disease. Doctors, he has always been healthy. Are you mistaken? Are you doing it wrong? I'm wrong. I can completely understand how you feel. But what Dongdong needs most now is your strength as parents. You must make a decision as soon as possible. What should you do next? Save him. Doctor, please save him no matter what. Don't worry. We will definitely try our best to start treatment as soon as possible. I hope you have a plan in mind. The cost of treatment for this disease is not a matter of money. No matter how much it costs, doctor, please save him. I beg you, sir, calm down. Calm down for a moment. This requires cooperation between you and our hospital. Let's discuss it carefully. I'll go out first. Did Yifan make a mistake? Did they make a mistake? How could Dongdong get this disease at such a young age? Isn't it wrong? Shaoyin, listen to me. We need to be calm. We need to be strong. Now Dongdong needs us to understand. How is it possible? I'm sorry. We have already beaten Yifan. I'm not here today. It's quite late. Then I'll go home first. You Where is the injury? Why did it bleed so much? Did you see those band-aids? If I didn't see it or I didn't go to the Wave Village at all, what should you have done at that time ? It's all over. I'm fine now, aren't I? Tell me where the injury is. I'm really fine. I'm fine. Why? It's only been two days since the flesh injury. What should I do to you? What should I do? This has nothing to do with you. You don't have to take it upon yourself. You don't have to do anything for me. I, I fell in love with you. I didn't hear anything. You always pretended not to care until the end, causing me to make you cry. Coco, I ca n't explain why. Coco, please stop and let me go. Do you know that every time I think of you, what happened that day? I'm afraid of what's going on. I'm afraid of what will happen to you. What should Ruojie do? It's going to make me hurt and go crazy. That's why you can't let go. Have you ever thought about her? I ca n't sleep again. I can't stop thinking about you. Ruojie's hand is hurt. What are you going to do? You know everything about it. I know everything. She may have lost even her most precious things for you. What are you doing here now? You are the one who made me fall in love with you because it keeps raining in your heart, so I don't know what to do. Ah, what don't you know what to do? You should be by her side now. You should be by her side every moment from now on. She is the most worthy person to protect in your life. Then I watched helplessly. Watching other men guarding you, I can't do it. You can do it. You two will be happy. I can't help but watch Yang Ming be with you and I'm indifferent. Zhong Keke, I don't want you to date him. It makes me feel like a fool every time. When I'm with you, I feel like I'm crazy. I just can't control myself. Take good care of Ruojie. Take good care of Ruojie. It makes me hurt and I go crazy. That's why you can't let go and can't sleep. I wish you happiness. I can't stop thinking about you. Everything about you lights up my heart like a fire. I want to be closer to you all the time. Don't say that you are leaving easily. I will be sad. It 's my fault because you are trapped in my heart. It's you who made me fall in love with you. Because your heart has been raining, I think you all should know that bone marrow matching is a very complicated and difficult to succeed process. First of all, I will start with his relatives. If even the relatives cannot be matched, then the next step will be Go to the Chinese Bone Marrow Bank to find a bone marrow match that is as consistent as possible. It is impossible for my son to have this disease. He has always been healthy. Did you make a mistake? Could you make a mistake? I completely feel how you feel. I can understand it, but what Dongdong needs most now is your strength as parents. You must make a decision as soon as possible. What to do next is that you made me fall in love with you. It's a coincidence that you are here too. Stop making trouble with me. I'll be tired too. In fact, you all know how important you are to me. It's you who make me unable to control myself because of you. No matter where you go, it's dark. I'm still standing here waiting for you to change your mind again. Oh, you've changed your mind. What's wrong? Dongdong is sick, mother. Why are you? I'm crying. Mom is not crying. Mom is just yawning. Mom, are you sleepy? Mom, why don't you sleep here for a while ? Just lie down and you can sleep. I'm not sleepy. Dongdong, coco, sister, brother, stinky, Dongdong, please be a little bit. You are not good at all. Dongdong is very good. Dongdong has not caused any trouble recently. You are still good like this . If you were good, how could the doctor punish you? Lying here must be because you are not good. Sister, please don't be so cruel. I am sick and you also know that you are sick. Well, get better quickly. Get better soon. Get the doctor's permission so they can release you from the hospital. I heard you are okay. I must get better soon. My brother said that when I get better, I will grow up. When I grow up, I can marry you as my wife. You said, don't make me wait too long. Pull the hook and seal the seal. Dongdong, be good. Sister Keke will accompany your mother to buy breakfast. ZL ZL I will accompany her. L Shaoyin, be stronger. Shaoyin, be strong. Dongdong will be fine. You can't fall in front of him. You are his mother and everything to him. Do you understand that he needs you now? But I'm so scared. I'm really scared. I can't live without Dongdong. We We can't live without him. Shaoyin, believe me. I will always be by your side and I will always take care of you, mother and son. But please cheer up and take care of Dongdong with me, okay? This should be here, it is here, it is here. You try that piece again. It's still the last piece. My brother said he was going to buy breakfast. Dongdong taught me how to play puzzles. You stay in bed with me every night. You look a little tired. Why don't we take turns starting tonight? I'm not doing it for you. I know it's okay. Dongdong is here alone. I don't feel at ease. I didn't have a good attitude towards you before. I'm sorry. But those things have passed. I only have one wish in my heart now. Then you can accept my suggestion. Well, after all, it's not a matter of one or two days. If you have to be like this every day, I'm afraid your body won't be able to bear it. Coco, thank you . Please don't thank me. Because now I only have one wish, parents. How are you doing recently? What's wrong with me and your mother? Well, well, well. Okay, don't do this in front of your children. You are really, you are really Yifan. Mom, you seem to have lost weight. It's an angle problem. Everything is fine at Yifan's home. You don't have to worry. You don't have to worry. You don't have to work so hard outside. Fan, I told you that health is the most important thing, yes, yes, your dad is right, I know, dad 1. Yifan, do you have something to tell your parents? Yifan, tell me. If you have something to tell your parents, look at you. He looks worried. Mom and dad, Dongdong, is very ill. Dongdong is the little boy you mentioned before. What kind of disease is he suffering from? Leukemia. You also know that treating leukemia costs a lot of money, so there is nothing I can do. You Ci, you said, let us two It is indeed difficult to raise so much money now. Otherwise, I will discuss with Feng Teshu and let our Guanlang Fishing Village be sold out at once. Dad, no, Guanlang Fishing Village is our home. No, no, Dad, don't expect to sell Guanlang. Fishing village, I don't agree, even I don't agree. Yifan Youci, are n't you in a hurry to save people? You two women, really you want to say that my mother and I are short-sighted, right? We are short-sighted. In short, I don't agree with dad. Mom said, why is this happening? I can't do anything else. Where can I get the money? Mom and Dad want me to tell you. Mom and I are the two pairs of opponents. None of you can even think of selling Guanlang Fishing Village. Dad, I don't agree with my parents about the money either. Don't worry about me. I will find a way. What can you do? It's getting late. You go to bed early. That's it. Good night. What are you doing? Don't blame me. I can't help it. The hospital has already urged me twice to pay. Money, but I, I don't blame you for that thing about money. I'm serious. Let me find a way to go to bed early. Yang Ming, I promise you. As for what you told me at the beach that day, I have thought about it seriously. Let's try to date. You know what? Every time I think about what happened to you that day, I am afraid. I am afraid of what will happen to you. What will happen to Ruojie ? That's why I don't know what to do. Is there anything I don't know what to do? You should stay with her now. You, you. You should be by her side every moment from now on. She is the most worthy person to protect in your life. Lend me five hundred thousand. Why? Lend me five hundred thousand. I have an urgent need. Why do you want five hundred thousand? Forget it. When I didn't say I could lend you money, then I want it now. Anyway, I will find a way to pay you back as soon as possible. This money is nothing to me at all. It is very important to me. I can pay you interest on the IOU. That's fine. Calculate it according to the bank's interest rate. I don't want to calculate the interest with you. I think it's better for me and you to calculate it clearly. I don't want to owe you so I can calculate the interest, right? Just do it according to what I said. You didn't even ask how much the interest is, so you just agreed. As long as you can figure out the interest on this loan relationship, you can decide on it very simply. The interest rate is to break up with Yang Ming and stay with me before paying off the principal. You, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you have to think clearly, the money can be borrowed at any time, you think carefully about Party B, Zhong Keke, to Party A, Fang Tang Shaolei borrowed 500,000 yuan. On the day when the principal has not been fully repaid, as long as Party A calls Party B, Party B must follow the call. Within three days from the date of the loan, Zhong Keke must break up with her nominal boyfriend Yang Ming. There is something wrong here. It is necessary to add that within three days from the date of the loan, Zhong Keke must break up with her nominal boyfriend Yang Ming in front of Tang Shaolei and clearly define the boundaries. They must not be bored and continue. Three are not allowed to leak the content of the agreement to a third person other than Zhong Keke and Tang Shaolei. Four Liang The agreement between people is established voluntarily between the borrower and the lender, so no one is allowed to go back on his word midway. Tang Shaolei is not allowed to ask Zhong Keke or inquire about the use of money. 6. During this agreement, Zhong Keke must remain single and is not allowed to fall in love. Are you sick? You, you really want to fall in love. 7. Tang Shaolei is not allowed to interfere in Zhong Keke's private life. 8. Zhong Keke is not allowed to talk back to Tang Shaolei and must be pleasant and obedient. Just say I can sell it to you. That's all. Sign your name in black and white. But You have to be careful that once you sign, you can't go back on your word, otherwise you will be legally responsible. Wait a minute, I'm going to add a clause. During the period of the agreement, Tang Shaolei cannot break up with Liang Ruojie because of the relevant contents of the agreement. No matter what the reason, Tang Shaolei cannot break up with Liang Ruojie. Is there any problem with Liang Ruojie's breakup ? Is there any problem with Zhong Keke? No problem. I signed the contract first and said hypocrisy to you. I won't feel sad for you anymore. My love for you has long been invalidated. It doesn't matter whether you are good or bad. Say goodbye loudly. I'm just a super big band-aid. I'm good. I'm thirsty. Pour me a glass of juice. Your foot is broken. I'll give you comfort when you're lonely until your heart is slowly torn apart. Thank you. I'm not a huge Band-Aid. I can't survive the night without you. My love for you has long been disillusioned and transformed into a moth. Butterflies fly in front of you and say thank you. I'm just a super big band-aid. Your agreement soothes your fear of love and your check comforts you when you're lonely until your heart is slowly torn. Can I leave? Yes, but trouble you. When I go back, I will memorize the contents of the agreement. My love for you has long been disillusioned. The moth transformed into a butterfly and flew in front of you and said thank you, doctor. Did you come to me? You are here. Please sit down. Has there been any change in Dongdong's condition? It's not a condition. Temporarily stable. I came to you today to confirm with you when bone marrow matching can be performed. I can do it at any time. I hope the sooner the better. Okay. Then take this and pay the deposit. Doctor, can you tell me how much I have to pay first? There is nothing on it. When I write this, I told your husband, my husband Shaoyin, why should I pay for the bill? But don't worry about it. Let's talk about it later. You go sit over there and wait for me. I'll be there soon. Thank you. Didn't I tell you? Don't you ever say these two words to me again? Where did you get such a big sum of money? Don't worry about where I got the money. Anyway, I've already paid the money. Now you just need to take care of Dongdong with peace of mind. It 's not a small sum. I know it's not a small sum. So let me ask you this. What are you going to do if I don't get the money? Okay, don't think about it. Anyway, everything is settled now. The most important thing for you right now is to After Dongdong's illness is cured, nothing else matters. Or is there a problem with that sentence? Let's solve the problem. By the way, my brother, I asked him to go home and rest. He has to work at the stall tonight because this income is very important to us now. We can't give up Coco. I think I may not know how to repay your kindness in this life. Okay, here you go again. Please watch. I won't say it. Stop saying it. Wait for me. Hey, hey, where are you doing? Go out with me later. You're crazy. Zhong Keke, today is the first day of the agreement. Do you want to go back on it? OK, OK, OK. I know. I'll rush over as soon as possible. Goodbye. What's the matter? What time is it? Do you think everyone is as bored and bored as you? After I do this, I'm looking for you. You have to rush to where you are going as quickly as possible. Just get in the car with me. Get out of the way and sit fast. Why do you want me to accompany you here? Who knows the feeling of heartbreak? Looking for excitement? I'm all the way away. I am here to accompany you just to go to the amusement park. Brother, I have a lot of things to be busy with, okay? Article 1 of the agreement. As long as Tang Shaolei comes to see you, no matter when and where you are, you must be there with him. Don't you forget, my love for you soon? It's all gone, whether you're good or bad, it doesn't matter. Say goodbye loudly. I'm just a super big band- aid to soothe your fear of love. I'll give you comfort when you're lonely until your heart is slowly torn apart. I'm not a super big band-aid. I can't get through the night without you, right. Your love has long been disillusioned. The moth transformed into a butterfly and flew in front of you to say thank you. Who would know the feeling of heartbreak, but I still don't back down even though I know the result. I don't care about boring comfort. I say hypocrisy to you. I won't feel sad for you anymore. Your love has long since expired. It doesn't matter whether you're good or bad. Say goodbye loudly. I'm just a super big band-aid to soothe your fear of love. Give you comfort when you're lonely. Until your heart is slowly torn apart. I'm not a super big band-aid. I can't survive without it. Your love for you in the dark night has long been disillusioned. The moth transformed into a butterfly and flew in front of you to say thank you. I am just a super big band-aid to soothe your fear of love. To comfort you when you are lonely until your heart is slowly torn. I am not a The oversized Band-Aid cannot make it through the night without you. My love for you has long since faded away. The moth transformed into a butterfly and flew in front of you to say thank you. Hello, the number you dialed is on a call. Please call again later. Hello, the number you dialed is on a call. Please dial again later. Hello. The number you dialed is currently on a call. Please dial again later. Are you hungry? Are you eating with me or with it? What's the problem? Who are you eating with now? Tang Shaolei. It's Tang Shaolei. Tang Shaolei? Then from now on it will also be called Tang Shaolei, okay? Tang Shaolei, are you hungry? Does it hurt? Does it hurt? Are you happy today? There is nothing to be unhappy about. It's just fulfilling the agreement. That's good. When are you going to fulfill the other parts of the agreement? What does the content of the agreement mean? Article 2 of the loan: Zhong Keke must break up with her nominal boyfriend Yang Ming within three days. How do you want to regret it? But it is clearly written in black and white. You promised it. Please don't be so naive, okay? It's a matter of principle. Zhong Keke, don't expect me to compromise with you on this matter. I didn't say not to go. Is n't there still two days left? Breaking up with him makes you so reluctant to leave. This is not a question of whether to break up or not. It 's a problem that I haven't figured out how to tell him yet. Just tell him clearly. In short, you have to tell him clearly in front of me. Otherwise, it would be childish to pay back the money now. Anyway, tell him clearly as soon as possible. Why didn't Tang Shaolei tell you about you during the meal? I ate at the amusement park and went to the movies and watched. What else do you want to answer the phone? Hey Shaolei, where are you? Why haven't you answered my call for so long? I'm taking a shower and my phone is on the bedside. What do you want? Nothing. Just If you are okay, go to bed early. Shaolei, have you been busy recently? You haven't even come to see me. By the way, I will help you contact the most authoritative neurological doctor. He will come to Shanghai next week and I will arrange for you to meet. If everything is okay, then Let's do this for now. Good night. Stop the car. Stop the car. What are you doing ? I: Stop right there, President Tang. What else do you have to say? I've been fooling around with you all day. I'm also very tired. Have you had enough? I didn't mean that. I'm just that. What did you just do? What do you think I am? Why do you want to lie to Ruojie? I didn't mean it to you, but you still lied to her. Yes, I borrowed money from you. It doesn't mean that I sold you the money. I will repay the agreement and I will abide by it. It doesn't mean that I have to listen to you in everything. You can explain it to Ruojie yourself. But I didn't mean that. I swear I didn't think about it that way. I won't do it again. Forgive me this time, okay? Why is this woman always so arrogant? Why is it always me who apologizes? Yes, I lied to Ruojie, but how do you want me to tell her that I am with you? Okay, I originally wanted her to understand me. I will find a chance to make my feelings clear to her. Dare you? You are finally willing to pay attention to me. I'm sorry. Try it. If you make Ruojie sad, your best thing now is to threaten me. I also know that I can't make Ruojie sad, but what about you? As for me, my heart is moving towards you step by step. I can't control it at all. So what are we going to do ? Can you really watch me sad? You, you, go away, don't let me see you, come up, you Tang Shaolei, live. What are you doing in this world? I'll strangle you. I'll strangle you. I'll strangle you. You got it. Article 9 of the agreement. No matter what the reason is, Tang Shaolei cannot break up with Liang Ruojie. If I break the contract, don't force me. Otherwise, why are you here? Who let you? You came here suddenly and left quickly. You haven't answered me yet. What will you do if I break the contract? Feed me out. Zhong Keke, I've had enough of you. You've always pushed me away. Today, you have to give me an answer. Our agreement is for everyone. You can't go back on your word. You forgot that you threatened me less with the agreement. I want to go back on my word today. What can you do to me? What do you want? Tang Shaolei, you have a bunch of reasons to push me away every time. You never take into account how deep my heart is. It hurts you to go away. I don't want to see you now. I won't let you escape anymore if I say anything today. If you don't believe me, I will go and tell Ruojie now whether you have made enough trouble. Zhong Keke, you are really going too far. In fact, you are already worried. Just accept it. I decided that I have nothing to do with you. I have to be obedient to you, right? I don't have it. It's best not to have it. I'll make it clear to you today that I do n't want to go on like this with you anymore. What I love is you starting from today. Don't expect to play any more tricks and leave me. Don't force me. I just want to force you. Today I won't force you. You will always force me. You are an [ __ ]. I am an [ __ ]. I just want to know what is in your heart. Is it so difficult? I just want to know you. Is it so difficult without me in your heart ? All our memories are floating in the wind. I pray devoutly, but you never open your heart. You are always dodging. Can you muster up the courage to look into my eyes? If this is our destination. Then say goodbye. When the curtain comes down, dance this last dance with me. Remember those days when we always said good night to each other. You held me tightly without any pretense. How I long for you to appear again. But love may have been doomed sir. Can I ask for anything? No, thank you. I thought you only had an appointment with me today. Coco has something to say to you. Coco has something to say to me. Should President Tang avoid it? I may not have said it clearly enough. Coco has something to say in front of me. I'm sorry in front of you. Keke, the publishing house has been very busy since I came back, so I don't have time to see you. So, if I invite you over today, I won't delay your work, right? I won't come anytime as long as you invite me. Yang Ming is like this. I have seriously thought about what you told me that day at Guanlang Fishing Village. I may not be able to do anything about it. Is it something I didn't do well? No, no. You are very good. You are very good. But I may not be able to try to date you. Did you do something and was threatened by others? What do you mean by telling me this? I threatened her. Who do you think I am? Tang Shaolei. He didn't threaten me. I didn't think clearly about it. I'm sorry. Then can I ask the reason? Forget it. Forget it, forget it, I'm sorry, Yang Ming, besides saying thank you to me, you are saying sorry to me. In fact, sometimes I really hope that you can treat me as coldly as you treat him, because at least it shows that you regard me as yourself. President Rentang, I want to remind you that I hope you can be nice to Coco and don't bully her, let alone hurt her. You don't have to worry about it. I told you long ago that I will protect Coco. Remember you once told me about a person who rides on two boats. I am not qualified to talk about the word &quot;guarding&quot;. Today I will give you the same sentence. If you really love Coco, I hope you can solve the problem between you and Ruojie as soon as possible. Otherwise, no matter where you two go, I will take care of you. I'm afraid you won't have this chance after Coco recovers. I hope you can keep your word. Thank you. I'm sorry. This is all I can say to you. Miss Tang, I'm sorry that your bone marrow match with Dongdong was not successful, so you can't do bone marrow donation for him. It was not successful. What do you mean, doctor? I am his mother and I am the closest person to him. How could it be unsuccessful? If I don't take another test again, will the results be different? Miss Tang, I can completely understand your mood at the moment, but it's straightforward. The bone marrow matching done by relatives only means that the probability is higher than that of ordinary people, but it does not mean that it is 100% successful. So Mr. Shaoyin, you are Dongdong's father, so you should do the bone marrow matching as soon as possible. You know that besides your wife, you The matching probability should be the same. I am not Dongdong's father, but I will try my best to find his Shaoyin. Why can't he behave? Why should we do this to our mother and son? Even if I exchange my life for Dongdong's life, I am willing. Why should I do it? Why is that, Shaoyin, don't be sad, Yifan. I don't know what to do. What on earth am I going to do? I can't watch Dongdong go to death step by step like this. I can't, I can't help it. Shaoyin, maybe there is a problem that shouldn't be mine. Ask, but he is the only one who can save Dongdong now. Tell me who is Dongdong's father. Dongdong's father is Li Hao. Three four five six seven eight four two three four five six seven eight. Come again. Someone is looking for one two three four five. 6782234 I only have five minutes. Dongdong is sick. He has acute myeloid leukemia and is currently undergoing chemotherapy. The only way to save him is bone marrow cell transplantation. Shaoyin did a cell matching two days before but it failed. So The only way to save him now is you, so just think of me as begging you to save Dongdong. Can't you wait a few more days? What did you say? I and Fantian are about to premiere. Do you know what you are talking about Dongdong? I'm your son. I didn't say not to go. I just said to wait a few days until my debut is successful. Then I will be sure that you are not worthy of being Dongdong's father. 56781234567822345678 Three, two, three, four, five. Don't close the door. Tang Shaolei. The bell-style takeout you wanted has arrived. Is Tang Shaolei at home? Just take my heart away like this. No matter where you are. Three stones. One day, you will understand that losing is for you. Learn how to have things that float with the wind. I prayed devoutly but you never opened your heart. You were always dodging. Can you muster up the courage to look into my eyes? If this is our end point, one day you will find it hurts again. The past will also disappear. Remember those days when we always said good night to each other. You held me tightly without any pretense. How much I long for you to appear again. But love may have been destined. One day you will see it. One day you will see it. A rainbow always hangs in the sky after a storm. Just take my heart away. No matter where you are, I always believe that because of you, all our memories are blown by the wind. I pray devoutly, but you never open your heart. You are always dodging. One day happiness will rush towards you. Remember to bring the Band-Aid that heals love back to this beach and let it protect your happiness forever. Coco, you always pretend not to care on purpose. I want you to know. I really can't live without you. I have no way to lie to you, and no way to lie to myself. You are the only one in my heart right now. You just want to make me hurt and go crazy. Only then will you be reluctant and unable to sleep. I can't stop thinking about you. Everything about you is like Light up my heart like a fire. Just for this minute, let's not care about anything or anyone. It's you who hurt me. I'll fall in love with you because it's been raining in your heart. Now it's just the two of us. It's you who makes me unable to be myself. Because of you, no matter where you go. It's dark everywhere I go, I'm still standing here waiting for you to change your mind again Oh, change your mind again You always deliberately pretend not to care until the end, making me make you cry Why I can't explain why I feel like a fool Ruojie, it's not your imagination You don't have to explain it to me. I just believe what I see. I told my manager today to cancel all tours. Didn't the doctor say that you are recovering? He said that your hand is only a neurological injury and it is only temporary. I know my own situation better than anyone else. I'm afraid I'll never be able to play the piano again in my life. Ruojie, don't think so. Your hand will definitely get better. What if my hand doesn't get better? What will happen to you?