Italians in January this year, marking the murder Almost 80 years after the there can be few single gestures that send, and When you see pictures like that in We are reminded of the darkest hours in power and set the world on fire. democratic responsibility should be this political direction and this threat, Last November a secret meeting, neo-Nazi sympathizers and senior figures from hotel in Potsdam outside Berlin. Their mission: asylum seekers and naturalized German to life in their new country. characterization of the event and the What they didn't know at the time, was that was also at the meeting, watching and the notorious Austrian white invited to provide the group with the I want to make life unpleasant for those those people who want to exploit our Germany is like an open invitation for Those who attended the meeting had been invited financially to the cause. The It was really a moment of 'we are just getting almost there. There's a carrot in front of our The host of the meeting was calling it very He called it the masterplan and he invited money. And I think in this meeting all this, like and money. And this was special about this meeting invited in a special way. So in the invitation man can talk about the masterplan' The report on the meeting hit Germany like as hundreds of thousands protested across discussed by mainstream politicians what's more - close to a location, stamped Hardly a coincidence was it, that this meeting where the extermination of millions of Jews or are you going to tell me that I think that is despicable of the mainstream completely not comparable and I can tell you I am not comparing I am just saying... No, I can tell you why the ...what thoughts it evoked? No thoughts at all you know because I'm not looking at all these special meetings all these demonstrations you mentioned, all this Six months have gone by since the Potsdam some at least the warning lights are still far right will make significant gains in happens what would it do with all that new democracy going to be across the European Union? First stop in Brussels where the advance among senior EU politicians - not involving spying and influence peddling We have politicians who do not hesitate the combination of external pressures with those who have very hostile plans for the threatening democracy - for instance the lack because the people are calling for And the uncertainty has only increased, along German politicians. The frequency of these evidence that Germany is target number On May the 7th Yvonne Mosler, local Greens in the wrong place at the wrong time, with Perhaps the biggest recent threat to Germany is 27 Germans, will be tried, charged with attempting president called it the most serious national Prosecutors said the accused had stockpiled their aims. Senior German politicians Do you think efforts are underway there could be other attempted coups? I'm not allowed to talk about concrete listen to the presidents of the intelligence that there are people still acting How crucial are the coming European I have to tell you that these elections will and the way we live, defend, make business crucial and these elections are necessary far right but the political powers, including the unity of the European Union then the EU we have a lot of new challenges and enemies How can people trust the elections? for a Russian puppet or someone who's genuine. I think everybody who has a about politics knows where the Putin puppets are. If you listen to the pre-election hype you could about to storm the citadel of European democracy, It's already unlocked those gates and its power and influence have expanded You have autocrats and far-right governments and far-right parties that are well established It does, because I see a lot of lying in what's frightening me is that we didn't do From the far right no such to see the white supremacist Martin Sellner, and that of other far-right movements. level of pressure on immigrants, either What is this high level of pressure. What is it? Any kind of pressure, economic ...bullying, harassment.... Not at all, not at all... ...threats, confiscations...what? No confiscations...that's, What right have you got to ask them to do that? Every right. Why? Every right as the indigenous population. They have the same rights as you.... Yes, of course... What I'm saying is for people who are here have a system of high pressure and to offer them prefer to live in an Islamic parallel society, So what are you able to deliver, discrimination, closing foreign destroying multiculturalism. What do you deliver? Our programme is a positive one, we want the same time we respect every other nation and Respect and hope they'll go away... No, I respect the plurality of the world It's just foreigners go home, ...Not at all ... and I tell those left-wing NGO people them there and stop importing them to Europe and I think our message is not radical at all. the AfD is the most popular party To test that claim, the AfD's lead candidate Bavarian town just a month before the vote. was there to greet the faithful, for whom image out and in again, in case the cameras missed and an all-white cast of fans, to assist the a party that German security services but it is. Just two days after we that classification and the AfD can continue to Across the street from the event a that quite apart from his party Mad Your office has just been raided after your on the charge that he had acted as an agent for people working closely with you received No that's not true. I mean the domestic intelligence said they supervised my was suspicious but I was not warned and So you, you're playing the victim here... No, I don't play the victim obviously question. This is what I always say. government wants us to look for spies. a difficult thing but the election is You are also, I believe, under investigation No I am not. No? On suspicion of receiving The public prosecutor in Dresden is now reading are enough to prosecute me or investigate It is just taking dirt on me because those No payments came your way, nothing from the pro-Moscow Voice Nothing. For months I declare that there are no payment, payment, espionage, espionage, fear, But a serious political debate was brewing. Mr. Krah you talked about scandals and, agencies. You're falling out with Marine Le so exciting to some of your closest We are. Look, first of all we work the European Parliament, so But Krah spoke too soon. Days later the AfD's Identity and Democracy group threw them out further campaigning. He remains, though, soon enough what the voters make In Berlin the question to the Chair of Can you foresee down the line any circumstances under which a far-right government No, seriously, right now I see no way. People never thought the AfD Yeah well, I mean you can't foresee anything... They are the number two Yeah that's true but you asked me for a prognosis we have to take this very, very serious. If right they show that they can't solve the problems we else in the next election, we would have no extremists get into power, they don't give it That 'everywhere' includes Hungary with Viktor Orban. Friend of Vladimir Putin - enemy said recently - he wants to conquer it. In office from his Fidesz party, dominating key roles in In a little village close to Hungary's and former Fidesz insider is campaigning but Peter Magyar's long term ambition is from power. It's not an easy job to win stronghold for Orban. But a turnout this size on cities Magyar knows he's bringing in crowds and The system is complex and the people are fed the lies, with the secret service, so it's and I'm quite sure that in an election it's Magyar speaks publicly about government he does so with some authority. He was Judith Varga and knows the strengths and what a state capture operation looks The main problem in Hungary - the Russian-style government spent more than 1.300 billion propaganda in 2024 in Europe, in the European ministry of education, we don't have a a ministry of propaganda. It's a bit funny but And what about the capture of the security services, the Yeah, everything is led by a Fidesz guy or the constitutional court, the president. Mr Orban I think from 2010 to rule everything and balance of power in Hungary. The only existing the so-called power factory with economic power, with political power, with secret service With all that power is he really going That's a question. I really hope that something Prime Minister Orban and he will let us take from the Hungarian people. It will be a long It will take more than some gladhanding through the exit. But how was it take over an entire European state for There's a reason why people might turn to discontent in Europe with politics and outcomes, in February talked about a broad geography of towns and rural areas have a sense of despair, to a feeling of being politically disenfranchised, Absolutely. But allow me to come back to this Scholz. Macron is currently in the polls with his doing with 16% in Germany at this moment of time. that worries me a lot because we are lacking Just three weeks before the European elections survived an assassination attempt in the town Bratislava. The government said the shooter had a said the entire hateful opposition had bloody warning that violence had no place in European warnings - either late or ignored. In the Europe's June elections, this attack stands out it could encourage similar violence in other parts run deep. Europe's liberal political group the rising polarization in the political Some of those ideologies were on show last cloaked, as it was, in respectable What is really interesting about it, they really seemed to be legal. You know they emphasized constitutionally. And I think this also shows the these movements and also the AfD of course, they not by breaking law and not by changing the but by bending all these laws and institutions, And the Nazis back then were also saying in the protocol. It's underlined. Everything The protocol which discussed Exactly. Was there a backlash against you for breaking this Yeah of course. After the story we had a us personally. Me, I was on the main channels of ...main channels of the AfD? Yes. So it was on the party's main channels of dog whistling against me but also the rest attack. I remember there were cameras you waiting for you to come down the stairs and we know your address, we're going to monitoring of right radical chat groups And we are actually not the only every journalist who is reporting on know the stronger they get, the more It's not just in Europe that people are the June elections. Ukraine's fighters the far right, with its Russian sympathies, could have serious consequences for the war I am not happy, not happy at needs more weapons and more ammunition and so on. Europe is supporting Ukraine Not enough in the military sense. But that's all that counts in the end of over their own territory, they We have to see at least four lines of support this is existentially important, with sufficient amounts of ammunition Ukraine's armed forces have seen aware that they're a political football and If the elections give the far right that those ammunition and weapons supplies committees by politicians who think Ukraine So, far away from the field of conflict, and for Ukraine, as much as the rest of