- Hi, friends, how are you today? I hope you are having My name is Bailey Sarian. And today is Monday, which and Makeup Monday. If you're new here, hi, my name is Bailey, and on Mondays I sit down, and that's been heavy on my knock in. And I do my makeup at the same time just to keep myself busy. If you're interested in true I would say subscribe, 'cause I'm here for and I do this, the products YouTube has this new thing, where it's like it pops up on the side. Let me know if you like that or not. Trying it out, it's new, I don't know. But other than that, I will shut up and get into today's story. Today, we're talking about who nobody would've thought 'cause she does not check any of the boxes of a fricking serial killer. These are the ones you Today, we're talking about I thought I knew her story. I'm always surprised every time. I learned so much. So let me tell you about She's got a lot going on because it was like, dude, it was just a lot, it doesn't matter. Dorothea was born January 9th, 1929 in San Bernardino, California. San Bernardino was like and at the time, when she was born there, 'cause now, it's like it's but when she was born it was like new, and upcoming, and becoming You know, it's just starting off. San Bernardino, little fun fact was where the first McDonald's was built, so there's that fun. Now, record keeping at So there's like a lot of things for sure about like Dorothea's upbringing, but what we do know was that as I'm sure you can imagine, right? Well, maybe you don't, So it was said that Dorothea, she was a part of like She had anywhere between 6 to 17 siblings. Now, it's unclear, nobody Dorothea would tell conflicting stories about her background and her family, so no one ever really got clarification. So she either had 6 siblings or 17. Just go with it. So Dorothea's parents were not ideal. Dorothea's mom was young and to make money, she But then when she was home, it was said that she was She was uninterested, she's And she loved the alcohol. It was said, it was clear their mom did not like them She would take off her work, she wouldn't say anything, okay? And she wouldn't be gone She would like go missing for days. Yeah, everyone's like, &quot;Where's mom?&quot; No idea, then she would just &quot;What? What?&quot; It just would be days, whatever, whatever. When she did leave for her answer was like, what was to just lock them so they'd be safe. Yeah, so she'd locked them in the closet. Dorothea's father wasn't any better. He, too, loved to just And when he was home with the I guess he would get like real soft stop, and he would announce that he was gonna kill himself, He's like, &quot;I'm gonna kill myself.&quot; So then he would literally he would press it against his head, and tell them that he was Well, he was a big, old lying bitch, because he never did it, to assume here that that was to witness for the kids Your dad doing that. So rough. Dorothea's father was He had served in like in World War I, and when doing so, at some point, he was exposed to mustard gas, which just destroyed his In 1927, when Dorothea was 8, her dad ended up passing And then not even a year later, Dorothea's mom ends up passing horrible motorcycle accident. She sounded wild, right? 'Cause I guess at this time, her mom was like hanging causing trouble, doing her thing, but yeah, she got into an Dorothea was now an orphan, and was being moved around foster home to foster home, and just no longer had I'm not even sure if it You know, obviously, tragic for anyone. It was said during this became quite the storyteller. Like, she would tell about anything and everything. When she turned 16, she decided and move out on her own When she gets to Olympia, Washington, she tells everyone that She's like, &quot;Hey, I'm Sherri.&quot; And she quickly finds a job and starts also working as a sex worker to make some extra money. Working at a milkshake shop, Okay, but she's working but, you know, she's gotta pay the bill. So she does sex work on the side, so she could actually make money. So 1945, Dorothea is 16 years old, and this is when she his name is Fred McFaul. The two of them seem to hit it off, and after knowing each other they decide, &quot;Hey we should Ah, marriage, yes, so quickly, but it's pretty normal Well, still now, people get married. Whatever, they get married. Now, Fred, he thought he but he had no idea. Fred knew her as Sherriale Riscile. And not only that, he thought, he thought she was 30 years old. Which I was like, okay, listen. Either she must have been like to pass as a 30-year-old, or I don't know, but he thought So later on when Fred he would say that he thought Dorothea genuinely just wanted to Like, she was probably As Sherriale, she could be not that sad Dorothea with you know, probably, yeah. Well, Dorothea and Fred, they're married, and they end up moving to Nevada together. The two of them would go One in 1946 and another Both children would end up Now, I couldn't find out why, because like they don't just come in and remove children, right? There has to be something One daughter was taken and the other was placed in adoption. I don't know what was but something obviously More concealer makes me feel safe. 1948, Dorothea and Fred, they It wasn't working out. Don't know. Okay, when the divorce was final, Dorothea, she would go that her first husband had died. I guess it's better than So everyone for a long time, believed that her first Poor Dorothea. So with her first husband dead now, she ended up moving You know, she's familiar with it, it's where she lives, whatever. She didn't have any money, she didn't have anyone to help her. So this is when she picks up her first criminal conviction. Dorothea, she started writing bad checks, which she got caught for, four months in jail She was also placed on which she kind of took because she broke the because she ended up or she decided she wanted to move to So she moves to San quickly marries him, changes her name. All of this, I'm assuming to from finding her. She also started claiming to Like a, just a rebrand, if you will. Also a side note, I don't wanna like give all the husband's names and stuff, 'cause there's a ton and it's all the husband's names and stuff. They don't, you get it? Okay, I just don't think it matters. Like, they end up getting So in 1960, Dorothea starts running her own bookkeeping service, She was actually running a brothel, and she was working as the madam. She would take care of the and I'm using take care of loosely, because I don't really know, I don't really know if she We don't know. But she was in charge of the brothel home, and she was making good money doing it. She's like, &quot;Hell yeah, got him.&quot; Well, the guy who was like He wasn't dumb, he caught on and he ended up reporting So the police come in, and they do this whole sting operation, you know, undercover police work, where I'm sure somebody got a free handy, but it proved that Dorothea and she was acting as the one in charge. So arrested right there, and she was given 90 days in jail. It was said, her husband at but it doesn't really matter, because as soon as she got out of jail, the two of them got a divorce, She knew she was onto something though, like maybe not running a brothel, but something else, a She was like, &quot;I like So she ended up setting up and this care home would be and most importantly, with some form of like stuff like that, and she So this new business venture, Dorothea would be working which would allow her to of her client's Social Security So she's able to have, you know, a bit of income and keep things going. It was said Dorothea could She was able to get like When city inspectors would they'd all come by like the and they were always It was said Dorothea would offer them some pie and coffee with every visit. And usually every month, she would throw a dinner for her clients and their social workers. And they were like always They were like, &quot;She cares It's amazing, isn't it?&quot; It's a shame. The social workers, they motherly figure for I mean, it was just, she was a blessing. Dorothea, now 39, gets to a 21-year-old, but the marriage only and then they divorced. I don't know what the goal was there. Okay, wow, with any of our marriages, but hey, third divorce, But at the same time of this divorce, she also declared bankruptcy. I guess her business, the Yeah, I mean she didn't in running a business, so she had no idea really She's like, &quot;I don't know, But she took notes, okay? She was gonna try again. So she was like time for That's the rebrand noise. So Dorothea now in her It was said that she had always been known for her, quote, &quot;brassy sexy But now suddenly or all of a sudden, she was wearing baggy clothes, and she stopped dyeing her hair. She told new acquaintances that she was a devoted Christian woman who was dedicated to which good for her, you wanna believe her? But, you know, we're here, it's Monday. So we know that's not really No, it's not. So Dorothea, she had at 2100 F Street in Sacramento, I've never been, I hear it's not that great. Anyways, she's renting What she did was she took over the whole like third floor of the place And then she had borders living throughout the rest of the home. It was said she took in homeless people, anyone struggling with or substance issues. And within the home, she And honestly, like the they were familiar with the whole thing. And again, they considered as a reliable placement for their clients, believing that Dorothea was It was said that Dorothea, okay, she knew what she was doing. The borders who were receiving higher federally funded checks While the residents who were kept in the basement, where like there were, quote, unquote, &quot;rooms made up and separated by curtains.&quot; Kind of like what they do at the hospital, you know, they put up so that's where they would stay. And it sounds all fine and I guess, behind closed doors, Like, she would blow up on her tenants about anything and everything. I imagine she probably had Especially when it came It was said most likely, of her own parents, It was said that she was just a mean woman behind closed doors. During this time, Dorothea even developed a drinking problem of her own. Whoopsie. So to keep her business afloat, she would take Social Security to get the basics for the home. And even sometimes, she would to political campaigns that worked towards gaining some respect And it worked, I mean, And again, thought she was an helping the less fortunate, and someone that they could rely on. Kind of smart though, huh? She was covering her book and like checking up on her. Dorothea somehow managed No idea how she's finding them. I know, but okay. So the two would call it quits after like 16 months of marriage. Her fourth husband's biggest complaint was that she wanted to buy new Not the pantyhose. Leave the pantyhose out of this, but that's was his reasoning. In September of 1978, someone over at the Social was getting a little funny So they start to snoop around and what really stuck out with prior convictions be running a reliable boarding house Like, it just things, So the treasury department started looking into her finances, and found out that Miss Dorothea had once, again, been forging checks, oh yeah. They stopped totaling the when the total reached $4,000, which was enough to be So police, they find Dorothea quickly pled guilty. And because of this, She instead got five years parole, and was ordered to undergo Now, because of all this hot mess, she ended up losing her and her position as a civic leader. This was devastating to her. And it was said, this led to her suffering from a complete nervous breakdown. Her psychiatrist diagnosed her with a broad personality disorder. In his words saying that she was a, &quot;schizophrenia, chronic Noted, you know, okay. Well, when she lost this place, you know, she had to like start over. So Dorothea, she got some odd but she was really looking for a place to once, again, provide You know, one-on-one time, She was good at it, I think. I'm not sure, no, she's not. So she's working some odd jobs, and once she was able to she rented another apartment. Well, it was like a, it was a house, but she rented it, and it was on F Street. She seemed to really like F Street. So her new residence was 1426 F Street. And let me tell you, She's renting like this $200 a month, ah, wow, I know. 1426 F Street, the house was perfect, because it had eight A bit of a yard, it was built in the 60's. Had some cute personality. It looked like a cute little dollhouse. Cute porch, nice little gate Kind of perfect for like Well, she's got her new place, and she's definitely on the prowl. So Dorothea goes out to it's called the Zebra Club. I love an animal theme. And she ends up meeting a I guess at the bar, the two You know, getting to know And then he invited to see where the night takes them. It was said by the time the two of them got back to his place, he really wasn't feeling well. So he was like apologizing &quot;Sorry, but I'm gonna lay on So he goes and he lays on the couch, and he is just not feeling right. When he's laying there, that like he couldn't move his body. He could still hear and see everything, but he could not speak He was like just frozen, But mind you, he's awake. So he's like looking around go around his place, see her, she's moving around the apartment, searching for anything of value. She loaded up the suitcase whatever she could, she's Put it in there, you know, Poor Malcolm, stuck there when he said that the When he was able to like he gets up and the first thing he does is pick up the phone, Luckily, he was able to give because she didn't think And the police would a few days later, coincidentally that she had stolen from Malcolm. So it was like, well, all just lined up, they're like, the checks, But when she got caught, she had excuses. She told police, she listen, I have a reason. Let me think of one first. The first reason is he gave me the checks. He wanted to go steady with me, but I didn't like him like that.&quot; That was her first excuse, Her next excuse was, &quot;I that occasionally causes So I don't really know I'm sorry.&quot; And with both of those excuses, she's like, &quot;Which one are you buying?&quot; And the police were like, &quot;All And they made a note I know, that I was like, &quot;But, huh?&quot; I don't know, she's So she's let go, whatever, Not long after, Dorothea where she met 82-year-old, Irene. Now, there was some kind where Dorothea had learned or that she was like looking for a doctor, but Dorothea hears She's like, &quot;Oh my god, that's crazy, because I'm actually a nurse, and what's even more crazy is What a small world,&quot; you know? And Irene, mind you, mind you, Dorothea is like this nice Why would she lie, you know? So Irene was like splendid, and she asked Dorothea for a house call. Dorothea shows up to Irene's home. She's got like one of looking pretty legit. She takes Irene's blood pressure, and tells her that her body but not to worry, because she that would help. So Dorothea goes to her little doctor bag, and pulls out a bottle of pills. She tells Irene to just take a few, and then lay down, you So Irene, she remembers and then that's it, she Irene would come two hours she realizes that like some like her jewelry, and also her prescription So she calls the police, but she was only able to give because Dorothea had told So not great, but my thought here was like, &quot;Oh, police are 'cause it's like a Very similar story.&quot; Maybe they're making a connection, but I was asking too much, 'cause they certainly were not, nay nay. But get this, 'cause A few days later, Irene goes and guess who is there? Fucking Dorothea, AKA Betty. Like what an idiot, Maybe she thought she killed And Irene is like, &quot;That's her.&quot; You know, Irene tells her but she does it in a So, you know, Dorothea She's like call the (gibbers). By the time police But luckily, the hairdresser knew her real name. So she went over, gave the Do something with it, geez. So police go on over to Dorothea's place. She maintained that she did nothing wrong. And because they couldn't or anything that linked Dorothea to Irene in the first place, she couldn't be charged with anything. Dorothea's like, &quot;I have no That's crazy.&quot; She is just getting away and away and away with more and more stuff. Dorothea was taken to court came forward and reported that and that thousands of dollars But nothing came from it. And like, the judge who would see Dorothea would always release her. She would just end up skipping her way right back to 1426 F Street, you know? So at this point, she's like police have kind of like So she's trying to think of ways, you know, what can I do now? Like, she wanted to get a that way, she could just So with this in mind, she's like, &quot;I need to make money fast, So in her mind, the best option here would be to just kill people for profit. Makes sense, right? She's like, &quot;Yeah, great, Big jump, big jump, but okay, Dorothea. So Dorothea, she had met this woman, her name was Ruth Munroe, and she met her through Ruth's husband who was terminally ill. Not quite sure how this all came to be, but they met, they hung out, and Dorothea and Ruth During the evening together, that she should go into business with her. Now, I read that like they were gonna go into business together as caterers. I don't know if that's true or not, but they're gonna go into So they get like a joint account, and they're gonna put and that's gonna be for the business. Ruth is really liking this idea. Her marriage, it was on the rocks, and she was like ready for So Dorothea's like, &quot;Girl, Ruth is like great and she does. So Ruth moves in, and for Ruth to start feeling off. Ruth would go around telling that she was like feeling sick, and she was often getting confused. Like, she couldn't remember And at one point, she even told her family that she felt like she was going to die. Pretty troubling, right? So, you know, Ruth's son, he stops by to see how she's doing. And the first thing that he was drinking alcohol. Now, this was weird, because his mom like rarely drank alcohol, especially the drink she was drinking, which I can't pronounce, I know that's not how you And I looked it up, it's like And I was like, &quot;What the hell I never heard of this before, because when you look it sorry, it's straight up, it's green, it looks like battery but people were drinking it It's popular, because I I was very curious, and We don't need a whole but in the 70's and 80's, People liked it, okay? Anyways, point being, according to her family, so it was weird. So her son came back over the and like same thing, she was the creme de menthe. In April of 1982, Ruth's came by to visit. The first daughter, Rosie and she went to her mom's room, and found her in like a really deep sleep, and was unable to wake her up. So Rosie goes to Dorothea and Like, is my mom okay? I can't wake her up.&quot; And Dorothea is like, &quot;Oh The local a ER, they came by, they gave her a shot to calm her down, because she was really agitated. So they gave her this shot, and it kind of like, Now, her daughter didn't question it, because she trusted that Dorothea and was caring for her mother, you know? This older woman, Dorothea, Ruth's son, his name's and he was met with She was kind of like blocking it. Huh, she's like, &quot;What do you She told him that he and check on his mom, and she really needed the sleep. But Bill was like, &quot;That's and check on my mom anyways,&quot; you know? So he goes up there, when he finds his mom in bed. She's lying kind of stiff on her side with like her eyes wide open. She was completely unresponsive. And to her son, she seemed to be drugged. So like, she was still So Bill is like talking to his mom, and he tells her like not to worry. Everything's gonna be all right, and that Dorothea is That's what he's saying to her. And then Bill said he from his mom's eye when he said this. Oh, could you imagine? She's screaming inside like, &quot;Please, no.&quot; But again, the family trusted and they said their goodbyes. The next morning, Ruth's from Dorothea telling her that something was wrong with her mother, and that the paramedics were called. So her daughter freaking and when she gets there, she's told by Dorothea When first responders Dorothea told them that and was under a lot of stress, 'cause she was having And she was telling authorities that, &quot;Oh, most likely, Ruth committed suicide, because she was so That's what she says, but &quot;Hmm, something ain't right here, ma'am. Because on the report, it said that Ruth's liver was enlarged, and showed signs of toxicity.&quot; She also had no signs which led them to believe that she hadn't eaten in several days, but they found a large creme de menthe in her system. So maybe she was just That's what, right? But then the toxicology report came back showing that Ruth actually died of an overdose of Tylenol and codeine. Ruth's death was listed inconclusive. Ruth's family was feeling you know, thinking maybe Maybe she actually had something as horrible as like So they went to the DA's office, but were told that there just or anything really linking to build a solid case. So yipitty skippy for Dorothea, she was able to take out money from her and Ruth's joint account with the full intentions which she should have, but I guess she wanted more. Dorothea had a neighbor Her name was Dorothy, Dorothy Osborne. And, you know, they would Wave, hey, nice two lips, love your yard, gorge, how are you? Did you get the mail? Love that, gor... you Well, one night, Dorothea to have a little girl's night. She's like, &quot;I brought the booze.&quot; So Dorothea like goes into the kitchen, and prepares both of Dorothea comes back, it Dorothy takes a sip, and baby, that's the She completely knocked out. And when Dorothy came, too, finally, she was looking around and valuables were missing just like everybody else, you know? And the first thing she So the police, they come over, and they find evidence of the mixed drink that Dorothea had made, but not only that, right next to it was some kind This is great, because this is something. So the police, they and Dorothea was quickly arrested. From there, she was sentenced but she would only serve three, why? I don't know. Well, good behavior and But she also had the money the place that she was renting. So she didn't lose that this time. I guess, that's good. While in prison, Dorothea to a 70-year-old widower. His name was Everson Gillmouth. No idea how they me, you guys. No idea, don't know, don't ask, okay? But she had the ability She didn't give her secrets They stayed in touch and when she was released, the two of them decided to move into Dorothea's apartment on F Street. This Emerson guy, originally, he was living in Oregon So him moving to a new that she had never met made but like there wasn't much because Everson was an So after he moved and his in quite some time, she called the police and do like a wellness check. And this was in September of 1985. So the police go by and and Everson was alive and well, but most of all, he was pissed, the F off, that his sister even had called the police in the first place. So once the police had left, and told her like, &quot;Don't Click, you know, she was So after that confrontation, would hear from Everson was when she received She would receive letters stating that, you know, everything was but the letters were The whole thing was weird, and it was clear none of the letters were coming from her brother. But again, like what was He's an adult, maybe she's So she just kind of stood Everson had been with Dorothea And he was staying with her that the landlord was also The landlord would like come and go, wasn't really around much, you know, but they lived on like the first floor, and the landlord remembered and the last time he saw Everson, he noticed that he was Like, something was but he made a note to himself like, it must be manageable, You know, he's holding his but it seemed manageable. Well, the landlord ended up leaving. He left town for like a few weeks, and when he came back, he So the landlord was like, &quot;Hey, Dorothea, what happened to that guy Everson?&quot; And she told him that he so he decided to move back to Oregon. I'm like, &quot;That was that,&quot; follow up questions, you know. I'm so nosy, I'd be What park? Family down there? Meanwhile, Dorothea had who was like also a handyman, you know, she reached out to this friend, and she's like, &quot;Hey, can around the house?&quot; She's like, &quot;I don't have a lot of money, but I can pay you, you know, vehicle.&quot; So it was a red pickup truck and she's like, &quot;I could if you will do work for me.&quot; Now, the red pickup truck was Everson's, but the carpenter, he didn't know that. He didn't know the full story. He just thought, &quot;Hey, cool, what a deal.&quot; So the carpenter agrees, Comes out, starts doing Eventually, Dorothea She's like, &quot;Hey, will She tells the carpenter, she's like, &quot;I really want this six to store old things in.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Sure.&quot; He's like, &quot;I'll make you that box.&quot; And she's like, &quot;Oh, and I Now, if you didn't have questions, then you would just, But this guy just wanted He's like, &quot;I don't know what this is, but I'm just gonna do it.&quot; So he makes this box for And then a few days later, he comes back and he noted that the box was now nailed shut and extremely heavy. He didn't ask questions, Instead, he helped loaded it into the truck, and When Dorothea told him to pull over, and it was like in this next to a river, there to help her move the and then they left. The box would be discovered in January of 1986 by like two men who were just minding their own business. They come across this box. They thought it smelled a little funky. So they opened it up, found a There were like moth balls in hopes to like hide the smell. The body itself was set that investigators had a hard So at first, he was tagged as John Doe. Sadly, three years would go and helped ID the body as a person who had lived with Dorothea Puente. So nobody's putting the pieces together. Dorothea's been getting for her whole life. And like during those three years, Dorothea was still taking in She had brought in 40 new tenants over the course of three years. And yeah, no one was catching on, no one was saying anything. It was said though that she The residents would pay which also included two meals. Breakfast, which took and then dinner at 3:30 PM. If you missed it, that was Nobody was allowed to enter the kitchen. Nobody was allowed to open mail, or even think about touching the phone. Alcohol was prohibited She was allowed to drink. With all these like she devised a plan. Well, she had this plan, she and open it before any She would give them small which normally, like lasted And that's not me being She wanted them to go to the because when the tenants and be like out of control or something, she would call the police, for being disorderly. She liked this, because sometimes, they'd be locked up for like 30 days, which was just beautiful to Dorothea, because while they were away, she could just pocket any of This woman in 1988, there who was getting that bunky feeling that something wasn't right with Dorothea. I mean, yes, within the Dorothea was known for like had to offer, especially Was anyone actually following There was an outreach counselor who helped place a man named And Bert had gone missing, Bert struggled with schizophrenia, and was also living on the streets. But his counselor would like to turn it all around. They were able to like set him up with Social Security checks, and were looking to place him in a home where he could be cared for. And that's when the counselor was like, &quot;Oh my God, Like, let me place you When Bert was first placed with her, it was said that his Like, he was staying showers on the reg, he had clean clothes, he was staying consistent and things were like In March of 1988, Dorothea took Bert down to the Social Security office, and told them that Bert was and that he was incapable of Because of this, his benefits Dorothea. And the workers were like, &quot;Yeah, totally makes sense, sure.&quot; Dorothea listed herself as Bert's cousin, which made her the payee of Bert's monthly Social Security check. It was like six something, And it wasn't long after Other tenants were there, right? And they would ask Dorothea And she would tell them and go stay with family in Mexico. They're like, &quot;Weird, he but okay.&quot; But the counselor who was she did not believe this at all. Instead, she filed a with the police stating that Bert was not the type to run away, like no. So police go down to 1426 F about this Bert guy, right? They scope out the place. They also asked some of the other tenants what they thought like happened to Bert. One resident told the officer like Dorothea had told them to say this, and he was all serious, But then like low key, the guy slowly handed over Don't tell anyone. The officer looks at the &quot;She's making me lie for her.&quot; This was enough for the police to get a warrant to search the property. So investigators, they like four days later, like she could have ran. This lady, she didn't wanna But they returned four days to, obviously, search the house, You see, there were complaints and I think even the landlord, too, but there was a stench you know, an off putting stench. And they had been complaining So I think this is why they to dig up the garden But on the first day, investigators began digging in the yard, and they kept coming and some other stuff. They were coming across scraps of cloth. But also, they came was beef jerky and a tree root. So they realized, it was not when they found a shoe with So it was a body, it was a body, yes. They're like, &quot;That is not The next day, the under the concrete patio, 'cause So Dorothea's at the house and she just goes right up to the detective, and just asked straight up And the detective told So she was like, &quot;Okay, I'm and get myself a cup of coffee.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Yeah, go ahead.&quot; I know, no comment, I think you know, just how stupid everything is, right? While away getting her coffee, investigators, they found three more hidden under that concrete. Then they found another that That was like on the side yard, os it was five bodies being found so far. Yeah, and they just let the So now investigators are looking around like, &quot;Hey, where's Dorothea?&quot; It's been four hours to go get some coffee. Four hours and she's now After the search of police had unearthed seven bodies total. 51-year-old Bert Montoya, 55-year-old Benjamin Fink, 78-year-old Leona Carpenter, They were all buried in the backyard. When it came to Betty Palmer's body, it was noted that the were missing, never found them. After all, this police into the disappearances and also the death of Ruth Munroe. Everson, who was found in the he was identified by hospital X-rays, but no cause of death was ever determined. When post-mortem examination it showed that they all of the drug, Flurazepam, Dalmane But this drug can be lethal, especially if taken with and it's super potent in elderly people. So Dorothea like knew what During the search of Dorothea's Place, they found dozens of prescriptions for the drug in Dorothea's On top of that, they over 60 benefit checks that and she had kept cashing them long after their deaths or disappearances, Well, investigators knew but where was she, where You see, when Dorothea had left she had pocketed $3,000 where she got herself an adult beverage. I'm sure she needed it. And then from there, she took a cab to another where it was said she drank She's feeling nice, a She then flags down another taxi, and asked them to take her where she could board a bus that was heading for Los Angeles. So maybe she gets on that I guess at this point, you know, their thing on TV, like, if you've seen this woman, And it was Dorothea's who had information to come forward. Where's her location, you know? Now, I'm not sure if she was that she was like on TV, So when Dorothea makes it to Los Angeles, the first thing she does, she goes to a bar. She goes to a bar where she She tells Charles that her name is Donna. She's like, &quot;I'm Donna, whose husband just died, and like I'm looking to The two of them, they ended She's telling them like, just looking for company. We should move in together.&quot; But this guy was like, &quot;Slow down, okay? I had fun, but not that much fun.&quot; But he does me make plans to Now, this Charles guy, he &quot;Where do I know this woman from? She just looks so familiar.&quot; That's when he has his light bulb moment, and realizes that he saw her image on TV and police were looking for her. Thank God for Charles, huh? So he picks up the phone, he calls police. Hello. They move in quick. Find the hotel that she was staying at. And by 10:40 PM, Dorothea They got her good. So they had a flyer back to Sacramento, where I guess during the whole ride, she kept telling the officers that she had not killed anyone. She was like, &quot;The checks, yes, I cashed. I cashed the checks, but I used to be a very - I used to be a very - &quot;I'm just a little old woman, how could you think I You guys are nasty.&quot; And when you see pictures of her, you're like, &quot;Yeah, she's Like, I don't know. You're like, &quot;Yeah, okay, I can see that. She looks like a nice mature grandmother.&quot; During her questioning and interrogation, it was said that Dorothea &quot;ordinary woman, that she was and intelligent, far removed that was depicting her as the embodiment of evil,&quot; end quote. Okay, the psychiatrist before the trial diagnosed Dorothea, is suffering from antisocial which is a condition marked of others without any remorse. The psychiatrist speculated most likely began for rooted in a desire to undo Like, she wanted to as she couldn't for the But, and there's a very when these people would, Dorothea would act up, too, and she would snap, decide to kill them. Dorothea showed up to and she showed up so cute. Oh my God, she was leaning into granny. She was wearing like this nice just looking like a nice grandma and probably knits things for you, but she was there to plead not guilty. Well, she would end up sitting in jail for another four years. Her trial finally began The prosecutor was blunt saying, quote, &quot;She wanted no friends, no family, won't have others coming end quote. And I think we can all It sounds about right, they were putting in, Her defense team came back saying that the tenants How dare you accuse poor Dorothea? The only reason Dorothea to retrieve the bodies was of operating the boarding house, which was in violation of her parole, and didn't want to get sent Natural causes, everyone, they just happened to They wanted to be buried back there. So the trial would go on for five months. They brought in like 153 witnesses, 3,100 pieces of evidence, and even a scale model of I love that, I know. But that was placed in It was so cute. I love a cute looking dollhouse, especially a Victorian looking dollhouse. Yay, it was cute, propped It was noted that during trial, she fully leaned into sweet During her testimony she, grandma face, not giving any of doing any of these atrocious things, like burying people in Cash and checks, what was that about? Now, the prosecution's main problem was that there were no eyewitnesses to these alleged murders. I mean, yeah, there were who came forward and said giving them medication, practically, like shoving And that helped, because in the the toxicology test revealed of that prescription strength So it was like, &quot;Okay, you Then there was a handwriting expert that confirmed that Dorothea of seven dead tenants on that were sent to her making around $5,000 a Now, the prosecution Oh, I was like the handyman. The one who helped Dorothea make the custom box to Yeah, so he told the court that he did, indeed, help her build this box, but no charges would The statute of limitations So that was a bummer, but his and played a big role in like I can't say statute, statute, statute of limitations, whatever. But this testimony played a major role, because it gave jurors a glimpse So after a year of weighing the testimony, the jury found Dorothea Puente guilty of murdering Dorothy and Leona Carpenter. The jury, they couldn't reach a verdict on the six other murder charges as they were declared a mistrial. It's believed, because the there was really nothing found linking her directly to their deaths. You think being buried in you know, but it's just not. I know, who would've thought? On December 10th, 1993, for life without the She was 64 years old, and would be spending the rest of her life at the Central California It's near Chowchilla, California. It's like the largest women's While she was in prison, not kidding. Dorothea released a had to know if it was true. It was true, it's called Recipes from Dorothea I don't know what she was cooking. I didn't even know if she liked to cook. Maybe she picked it up in like prison, but she came out with 4.5 out of 5 stars. Geez, let me know if there's Look, Dorothea like, she never really opened It's not like she denied, but And that's fine, she doesn't have to. There was one interview where &quot;I don't give a shit what anyone thinks.&quot; And it was like, &quot;All Dorothea died in prison at the age of 82, rip. So the home itself at 1426 F Street, it has become pretty famous. The home sold at a public The couple who lived slash lives there, I don't know if they still live there, but like they knew people gawk, it was known as this murder house. People were coming regardless, and they felt that they might as well just lean into the whole, a serial killer used to So they had a sign or they that says &quot;Trespassers will be drugged, and buried in the yard.&quot; Also, there's like a dressed up like Dorothea. She gets moved around, she was on the porch. People have lots of mixed feelings there. I don't know what to but like, I get what They're not making money off of it. I don't know, I, you As long as it's like, the victims or something, right? I don't know. I don't know, don't ask me. But there was this one guy, and he conducted a series for a Sacramento magazine In the interview, he and behaved like an ordinary old lady. Of course, he was like, &quot;I'm but she's utterly ordinary.&quot; She was not out hunting for victims or saving, quote, unquote, &quot;tokens&quot; like many serial killers do, you know? Plus she never like bragged, or opened up, or talked She didn't care for anyone to He goes on to say that Dorothea was wrapped up in her fantasy world and her insistence that And according to Martin, that's what made Dorothea so terrifying. She's an, otherwise, unremarkable woman who simply just didn't The fucking end. I know, Dorothea, obviously Here are my closing thoughts, 'cause I had a couple Dorothea, bad, yes, prison. Go to prison, bad, don't do that. You can't do that. No, but bodies were found so I was like, who helped her, right? She's an older woman, there's all on her own. You're telling me she's and like kill someone and shoveling and burying a, no, there's no way she's I don't believe that. Also, it was noted that there were several What was that about? Where did that take Like, was it in, like, There had to be like physical Tools, something, and this made me think, maybe we can all agree the tenants were helping, She probably told them they had to help or she would report them, get sent to jail or something, Maybe she just didn't tell but like, &quot;Hey, go dig a hole in the backyard over there,&quot; you know? But still, she would have to She wasn't buff, I saw the so she had help, we just and maybe like she, it In my mind, she was using them to do like most of the dirty work. She had all the power, that this woman was lifting You know, I got hung up on that. Maybe it was the carpenter guy. I really don't think she gave a shit about what anyone thought, Also, what was with the Was it just for a quick Probably. Did they see something and bounce? Was there some sort of financial gain? Did they help, I just don't And no one's ever spoke up or Yeah, I guess that's okay. I would love to hear your Do you think, what do you think? She got some help, didn't she? She's a little only, she You know, she's probably to do what they needed to do. I bet, anyways, let me know I hope you have a wonderful Leave me down in the comment section. Who you want me to talk about next time? I'm always collecting a list, I hope you do, too, I really Look at me, oh my God, okay, cute. Have a wonderful rest of your day. Please be safe out and I'll be talking to you guys later. Bye. (tense suspenseful music)