Hey, it's been a little while eh? [play Link's Awakening opening] Link's Awakening, released in 1993 for the You could say Link's Awakening helped push Blue: it wasn't as influential or as powerful the new tech; it reminds me of the relationship wherein Ocarina didn't pioneer 3D gaming, For all intents and purposes, it's a game Past, crammed into a tiny, portable screen. For this video, I'll be focusing on the as you'd expect had... well, color. It comes with an entirely new dungeon and useless nowadays. I mean, most people play the director's away from the original. It's about as definitive as you could possibly I don't really feel like talking about it remakes. What originally began as a port of A Link original project with almost no ties to the Zelda, no Triforce. Instead, it would see Link stranded on Koholint by collecting eight musical macguffins. Structurally it bears resemblance to A Link as a port shine most clearly; there's an 8 mystical macguffins. I suppose the twist this time is... well, say that the events of Link's Awakening You can sorta piece it together at the beginning: something up, the title of the game is "Link's The core conceit is to awake from a troubled about that journey. See, the past games in the series were fairly the land in the form of Ganon and you've Sometimes there'll be an initial twist, to the Past, but eventually everything falls deed is done. This time, because the events are largely stakes are a lot more personal. As the game goes on, it becomes more evident around you is fake, and that completing your This wouldn't be a huge issue, you don't the townspeople: except Marin. She saves you after you wash ashore, she tells to her song, you have a heart-to-heart at dungeon: and throughout all these encounters, crush on Link. It's pretty adorable, and that's exactly of your imagination. Imagine you have a really good dream. Perhaps life isn't the best at that moment, Maybe you're rich, maybe you're famous, fall in love; whatever the case, I think we of dread when we wake up and realize it was That's the bittersweet sucker punch of Link's to the final battle as the game progresses, that'll effectively kill every resident Though it is implied that Marin lives on as where Link is forced to keep Koholint alive by the manga adaptation. This one sees Link give up halfway through vanishing, only to realize that it's his The island would be ravaged by monsters on it all. What he does, assumedly in both games, is his strong memories of it. It's a unique story setup, and that it lands the Past's structure is pretty amazing. (Side note, this manga ain't half bad. It contextualizes some of the game's events the events of the game. It allows more time for Link to forge bonds even more heartbreaking. I love this story, damn: Breath of the Wild Structurally it isn't much different from the new item, fight a boss, and collect the Koholint, however, is a little different from Hyrule in previous games was large and expansive, Not only was the base map large, there was dungeons, items, and side quests. Koholint is comparatively small: this base it is indeed smaller in size, I'd argue If you recall, one of my biggest problems progression could be incredibly confusing. Most of the comment responses I received stated and reading their hints. Ignoring the fact that the game doesn't was so large, with so many people and so much during every point of story significance just When you have to travel back to Kokiri Forest aren't many hints available that would lead the stick to light the fire to break the bomb ME) *ahem*: same with Jabu Jabu, but since by an NPC, many people make it seem like it's Except, funny thing: that hint is actually The zora states, "According to the 'Legend Lord Jabu-Jabu will make you happy." Honestly, it doesn't get more blatant than it's contained within Zora's Domain. When my comments put me on blast for not talking I actually now believe they were right. I was being really impatient when I first it's actually more infuriating that it's have to do much of the time, so feeding a a Zora and forcing you to explore in an adventure I can't believe I just said that. All of this is to set up what I really like The progression gating on Koholint can initially okay with it because the amount of residents small, just like Zora's Domain. They make it apparent from the get-go that walrus's thought bubble depicting Marin, town when you need her. It's even more feasible because there's the only source of relevant information aside As a result, story progression felt like a a pacebreaking annoyance. This owl will tell you where you need to be available to point you in the right direction to piece everything together: you're left What it encourages, then, is that you play to the metroidvania genre. At the end of the day, Zelda is about gathering those items to access previously blocked portions It's remarkably similar to Metroid in that As such, one of the best things it could have that the linearity wouldn't feel as suffocating, across Koholint. Again, this only works so well for me because map, so exploring it with new items was just Though I have changed my mind about Jabu-Jabu, too big for its own good and that's how and Darunia. In this case, bigger isn't always better. This bleeds into the sidequests as well: there a few upgrades, and only one central collectible The heart pieces are well hidden as they are hidden sometimes. Nothing ever tells you that diving under the and heart pieces, and some overworld walls be to hold out your sword and meticulously I know I said that some meticulous searches smaller, but this is still a step too far. I really like this pseudo-dowsing mechanic their often disorienting nature. The way forward is usually blocked behind a small set of rooms, it's more reasonable walls. After obtaining the treasure map, you can if you see any suspicious lone rooms on said there's a bombable wall in the way. In the overworld, however: there's no map In a search area so large, the player needs a bombable wall exists. This is sometimes the case, like with this telegraphed by a lone tile of land surrounded It sticks out in your mind, gets you thinking, you dowsing to make sure. However, in Yarna Desert there's a cave some bombable wall after you fall through This area is intended to be a consequence and you'd be forgiven for thinking that's There's absolutely nothing indicating a Unless you spend the entire game tapping every case you're probably not having much fun. There are creative ways to telegraph these In at least a few of these dungeons, there toward a bombable wall, and in both of these cue the first time around. They're just tiles, after all, same as anywhere at them isn't much of a priority until you're Then there's a puzzle that involves pushing drawing one room over, and you have to piece None of these quite reached Yarna Desert, it a bad apple. Additionally, I enjoy that the heart pieces While I don't think having more is a problem track down every single one when there are It's occasionally overwhelming, and some underwhelming as a result. In this game I can remember where I got most It gives you the same sense of progression a jump as other Zeldas since your final heart I'm willing to bet that low heart count either that, or 2D Zelda is just more brutal It was refreshing, I'm not complaining about to this degree before. The rest of the sidequests aren't nearly The trade sequence is bearable because, say there aren't as many people to talk to. Some characters will even outright tell you to, expediting the process even more. I do sorta question the magnifying glass reward, You get the boomerang, which is extremely also lock the solution to the wind fish puzzle a little odd to me. The game essentially forces you to do the a really broken item, just so you can finish It's less of a sidequest and more of a background as your last collectible, hiding under tiles grass tiles and inside trees. Since you only need 20 out of the 26, and sorta break the game if you've also completed being hidden in sometimes obscure locations. You might argue that this leaves Link's I don't think that's the right way to almost exclusively about finding the path in dungeons, so a lot of your playtime will dungeons, which in this installment are fairly See, as someone whose Zelda experience basically whiplash to play Link's Awakening, a game design that it hurts. To give a quick recap, some of my favorite progression is disorienting; I like feeling situation. Every single dungeon on offer here fits that If you want an in-depth breakdown of that well let's be real you already watched Boss Basically, the biggest distinction with 2D dungeons allow you a lot more freedom. Often there will be many small keys to collect, to. In some cases, like Key Cavern, It's the It's still pretty much the same as 3D Zelda item somewhere along the way, and that item areas. You find the Nightmare Key to unlock the boss From Tail Cave to Turtle Rock, there's a part is that the starting line is already Tail Cave will introduce you to many of the compass playing a chime when you're in a each room will have a puzzle associated with doors. Sometimes that puzzle will be as simple as you'll have to think outside the box. The room at the northernmost portion of the push this block to the right, and you'll statues, and you can only talk to owl statues portion of the map. Essentially, even when you're on the right it and thus, lead to more opportunities where Not so much in this first dungeon, as it's you start getting to the dungeons with dozens route, things get more complicated. Your dungeon item here is the Roc's Feather, You can use it to jump over the gaps in the it in these 2D platforming sections that have It's... bizzare, I know, but it does lend might not have. You can use that feather to access the Nightmare you fight Moldorm and you're done. Let's skip to Angler's Tunnel; same idea Not only do you have the Roc's Feather, and you have the power bracelet: and in Link's some way. In a few cases, you can even combine their up speed, your Roc's Feather will jump even you to cross large gaps. This is a required skill in Angler's Tunnel Traditional Zelda wisdom wouldn't train it: yet, here we are. Angler's Tunnel uses the same philosophy got to figure out which locks to open so you the boss. Except this time, there are more rooms, the harder to find. The two you initially need are in the easternmost behind a block pushing puzzle that you need This allows you to open the two locks at the you to access the northern portion that you So, from the start of the dungeon, you have and then back through that path to the beginning, so you can finally travel northward. Even then, you need three keys to complete of the room near the beginning. You've gotta do all this while you pass of areas you'll need to keep in mind for obstructions that a dungeon item could potentially Because once you get the Flippers, you've use them. You can open this door with a switch, but key for it. You've gotta think back to earlier in the the holes. If you enter the 2D section near here, you'll can't swim. Once you have the Flippers, you can easily where this key was in the first place: something is obscured from view. Turtle Rock is the logical extreme of this dungeon in the game, it utilizes player confusion At the start, you'll first have to figure he's damaged by Magic Powder. Yeah, remember the magic powder you got at You use it throughout the adventure to make I said every item is useful, I wasn't kidding. Here we are at the final dungeon and the magic Once you defeat it, this beginning room already you, and they don't lead to an immediate No, they all branch off into their own areas branching nature is exactly why it's so You've got to test them all out, remember come back when you can finally access them. You get this really satisfying feeling near and you know exactly where to go after toiling in the first place, or maybe that's just I'm not interested in discussing each dungeon this pattern and I'd be saying the same better), but I would like to discuss the two pattern: one for the better, and one for the First up, I guess we'll get this one out meant to give the director's cut more content The puzzles are almost entirely contained structure reminds me of the gibdo cave. You go into a room, solve a puzzle, and then None of those puzzles are terribly difficult You can damage an enemy, they turn into a them into the correct socket: you do this There are a few instances of these switch it: I don't know what these are called, it. They're in default configurations that are never spent more than a few seconds on them. Other than that, there are some mini bosses Really, it's more for the offense and defense experience. Eagle's Tower is the other break from the break. The central gimmick revolves around the stone that you transport throughout the dungeon. There are two primary floors you walk through pathway mantra" up to eleven. Got to factor in that there are switches to you can fall from the second floor onto the that you need to find ways to get both the methods. The dungeon lets you go about smashing the it even more confusing at certain points. Trying to figure out how to smash that last the pathways intersect. However, not all of them have an equal amount areas, activate the switch, which enables leads to the same endpoint. It's pretty wild. I don't envy the child who had to contend I struggled with a lot of 3D Zelda dungeons like this with my pea brain. I'm a little dumbfounded that every single long, they're all sufficiently challenging and they all play with items and concepts I particularly enjoy the focus on upgrading There's a tendency in Zelda to create dungeon they stick. I usually look to items like the Spinner or outside of their dungeon, and they tend to Not that there's limited inventory in Zelda Link's Awakening decides: hey, we only really jump, block, pick up, create fire, and hookshot. So in a place like the Face Shrine, for instance, Bracelet, allowing Link to pick up heavier In Eagle's Tower, you get the Mirror Shield, Rock you get the Magic Rod, which lets you case the magic powder doesn't get replaced, This isn't new for some Zelda games: the and that replaces your shield too: same with I find it notable in Link's Awakening more focused on only a few items that you'll like the Dominion Rod. I feel like I'm exclusively picking on one This is a small thing, but I love how you key, or in one case a Chain-Chomp named Bow-wow. As soon as you see a keyhole, you know that and once you get the correct key, you can it's up to you to find a way to access that In the case of the Angler's Tunnel, you make your way to the entrance another way. This doesn't happen every time, some dungeons you literally unlock some of them. It's cute. I guess if I had to devise a complaint, I The mini bosses don't bother me much because many of the Nightmares were jokes. Oddly enough, the easiest dungeon in the game, bosses. You just need to hit Moldorm from the back it's hard to jump over him with the right you, and it's especially hard to avoid dying You're only going to have three hearts at each time. Additionally, when you fall into the pit, is restored to full. I remember being taken aback when I got here it and thought, "well hey, maybe this is It's followed up by a genie, one that repeats attack pattern, and yeah he's easy. Maybe you'll die to his last phase, but you're dodging his initial fireballs. Then you fight Slime Eyes, a boss that is jumping at the right time and using the pegasus much trouble at all. Then you're hit with a triple whammy: Angler All three of them are laughable. I got to the Angler Fish and killed him before I still don't even really know what he's gimmick with the hookshot, and ordinarily would be threatening, but it can't touch so it just becomes wait for the head to come Otherwise you kinda just sit there and do Facade is hilarious, you just drop bombs onto I'm not joking, that's all you do. Even mustering that complaint, though, the inherits the regenerating health of Moldorm genuinely hard to predict moves; the final weakness you need to figure out and exploit, again, still useful somehow. So, when I complain about the bosses here, just a shame that some of these dungeons couldn't I mean, that's really the only complaint wouldn't feel memorable thanks to the Game manages to look distinct, especially on the I don't know if this is just me, but I kinda color choices in its sprites, it helps them Each dungeon is set in a neat location with the inside of Eagle's Tower uses gray for making it feel like the inside of a tower; as its underwater, so the tiles are a muted This way, every dungeon is visually distinct and tilesets. It's just another way to build that mental within each dungeon, instead of letting those I would imagine this was harder in the original reason why the Color is so important. Surprisingly enough, the soundtrack is equally I'm not sure if I'm biased, or ignorant, to love the soundtrack as much as I do. I don't really listen to 8-bit music, and chip as technically inferior and maybe that I love the rendition of the main overworld of a pleasant dream. I also love how you don't get to hear it entire music track devoted to playing while The Face Shrine, even, has a great track: music is usually only there for ambience and I'd listen to it on my own time if the loop I'd recommend the video by 8-bit music theory job than me explaining why the soundtrack All in all, the tone of this video is surprise; Awakening, I did not expect to like it very I wasn't familiar with 2D Zelda, I was afraid screen space would be an issue, or that I have some huge flaw that everyone liked to Link's Awakening offered none of that, and Sure, sometimes I'll get fed up by the limited but I got over that stuff very quickly. It doesn't go on for too long, it says and time it has, and best of all: I don't feel Honestly, I find this game more enjoyable of Time, even Skyward Sword, and that certainly It's just so tightly... paced, yeah that's It has a pacing that is never obstructed for NPC, do something in the overworld, watch the next dungeon, and you keep doing this conclusion. No wasted time, no intense frustration, no adventure on the island of Koholint. Like a dream, it comes and goes, but the memory