- Hi, everyone; it's Justine, and we need to talk about Because they brought out a season 2, and it's almost as full of Same procedure as last year. I've watched the entire season already, taking notes of what cliches I will tell you which which one's wrong and why, my And then in the comment let's discuss whether and whether you think I I've got seven points that I mainly wanna talk to you about. Let's start with the work culture. There's this myth about don't want to ever work weekends. - Maybe, I should DM Gregory. I just got off the phone with Mathieu. - No, don't do anything. It's illegal to work on - And then later in the same episode. - But I told them that I would fix it. - Stop trying to fix everything. You're just making more on a weekend, which is illegal. - So I don't speak for everyone here, but I've worked in And in my opinion, by far, the country where people are least likely to be reachable during weekends, and to be online, is Germany, not France. And in France, actually, I've worked for several companies there, and my teams were checking I'm not saying it's great, not saying that, but this myth that the French are don't wanna work on weekend, and drop their pens at 5:00 pm sharp. This image is completely Especially in the industry that Emily works in in the series, which is marketing, PR events. There, when you have an event, you have to be online, of course. So it's really unrealistic the way that the culture portrayed there. Next topic: relationships. This series has an interesting view of relationships in France. - The lights are on; he's still there. Why don't you go talk to him. - If he wants me back, he's - So I think I know It's this thought that French very sulfurous and a bit b*tchy. For me, that's a personality thing of Camille, of the French lady, and certainly not a cultural trait. Then there is this living next door to Emily, who spent the entire whether he wants to be And he keeps looking That's inspired by the which is supposed to And in case you didn't know, the reference is mentioned Just to make sure, it's which is an old classic. Where there is a woman who with 2 partners in parallel. That woman is unstable and unhappy. She has mental health issues, and the movie ends extremely dramatically. It certainly does not represent And then this menage a an equivalent of voulez Both are extremely, extremely poor ways of hitting on a lady, This is super cringy, and Moving on to France having - Can we turn up the - We don't have air conditioning. - We don't? - It's not common in - I would say, this is, this is true. This is accurate, also because we don't really France has a pretty small surface compared to other countries. The south of the country does but then the houses so inside is always cool, 24/7. So you don't need air And then the entire country gets cold or at least colder in the south in winter. But then every house So we don't need to heat comparing with New York City, which I know enough to talk about it. There, yes, you need air conditioning because in summer, the air That's why everybody who can will try to go away and live in Manhattan in summer because it's unbearably hot and sticky. Paris gets warm in summer, but it's nothing compared to New York. Also, now from my French I don't understand why Americans are so fond of their air conditioning. When I was living in New York City, there was an air conditioner and my flatmate would always to like 23 or 24 degrees Celsius. And then in summer, he which is like the minimum So I'd have to wear socks because inside the Whereas we had 30 degrees Celsius outside, and it was actually hot summer, you know? So for me, that doesn't make sense. In fact, it wasn't just in my apartment. Every building that I in summer was so freezing cold. Like what I remember from The next one about sports not being a lifestyle or not even There is this new client that comes to the agency where Emily is working in Paris that looks a lot like a Peloton - From what our research tells a pass-time in France, not a lifestyle. We at Pelotech intend - (foreign language) - (foreign language) - I'd say this cliche is There was a thing in where if you were cool, people would ask you, oh, you're And the woman would answer, &quot;Oh, I don't do anything really&quot; when they're actually walking because they use public transportation. And the subway stations are And they do sport several times a week, but it's like, &quot;Oh, I You know, like not telling I would say this has passed, though. I don't think people would to the gym or to a spin And I think the lifestyle in general, mind, body and soul. And Emily's colleague when he asks, &quot;What's the point of having this bike when Next point, being naked at the Hammam. There's this scene in one of the episodes where French girl Camille invites Emily on her birthday to spend an afternoon at the Hammam with her friends. - Merci. - Can I, can I have a - All the French girls walk Super comfortable lying lavishly on, on the surfaces and everything. Emily spends the entire time wrapped in her bathrobe, looking at her And this really made me smile because French girls sometimes They would not go naked to Everybody goes to the naked sweating, very close to other people, men and women together. And actually, when I in Germany wearing my came up and said, &quot;Honey, I've got some information for you. You have to take off your swimsuit.&quot; I was like, &quot;Excuse me, And he was like, &quot;No fabric in the sauna.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Well, no sauna, then.&quot; If you're German and you're watching this, you must be thinking, oh, she's but it's really a close to other people in public places. It's really not common in France. The next point is one that cultural clash between America and France. In season two, new characters One of them is an American with a senior manager at the And that company actually And so the American lady's paying a visit to the daughter company in Paris. Americans are knowingly quite And so it clashes because the The way they communicate and the way they do things And she comes with her of how the daughter company - Merci, for seeing things my way. I know how much the French love to say no. - I would say it's even more about the luxury industry, - We're not really like that; - Yes, hundred percent. It's the way you ask, and Even if you're only doing your job, something that you're paid please, thanks and ask for Hierarchies are flatter in I feel like it's more top down, and what the headquarters In France, you would have to make sure that it also which I think makes sense, again, especially if you're talking Another example with who is the senior manager in Chicago. - We should launch in conjunction with the festival de &quot;Kan&quot;. - Actually, it's pronounced, &quot;Canne.' - Oh, you say potato; I say potato. - For somebody who is French, the answer of the as extremely pushback, extremely rude. Imagine if I said I mean it's so mispronounced that you would burst out laughing, probably. You can barely guess which If you were American, and I'm the Frenchie mispronouncing you would correct me in The nuance is you would You would treat it as a question. Whereas the French guy says, &quot;No, actually, it's pronounced like this.&quot; It's not meant to be lecturing her at all. Most of the time when people correct you, it's because they're trying to help. Because if you mispronounce Cannes, people will not understand So he's trying to help because he knows that the French what you see written down on paper. And so it's very and there is no afterthought there. One funny thing to notice you see Emily being and the French cultures in one room. And she's actually embarrassed what the manager said is not going to go down well with the Frenchies. So her intercultural to grow from the time she's If there is a season three of that show, I'm interested in seeing is going to develop. May I just add a comment from season two, the Ukrainian girl who is in Emily's French class and who is portrayed as a thief. - (foreign language) - (foreign language) - (foreign language) - (foreign language) - I'm going to go as far as to say that the Ukrainian people And if I were Ukrainian, I It's quite tone deaf, and Then let's get into Emily's of style from season one to I don't know if you noticed. Emily is from Chicago, is like fashion week It's not so much Chicago style. It's more Carrie Bradshaw, very trendy, a bit extravagant. There are tons of examples she's mixing neon colors, tulle fabrics that are Her style is very high fashion indeed. I think that's how I would call it. There is also this visible of the show to make gloves or trendy again. Emily is wearing contrasting in several episodes, so clearly, The bucket hat, in Paris But I mean, it has been I have nothing against all that. I find that more fun every day of the year. However, her style is when you know the reality Stiletto heels are simply And so every time that I see in my head, her credibility decreases. However, I do have to In season two, it seems is getting a little bit more wearable, a little bit more practical, a little bit, tiny little bit. Sometimes, she'll be wearing flats. Sometimes, you will see her wearing a very nice designer shift dress but like without the maximum proportions. So it seems that her aesthetic is starting to be slightly influenced And if there is a season where the progression continues, I'm going to do a fashion from season one through to season three, it's going to be very But don't worry; Emily is Her French is literally She fails to move on to And it seems that after she is going to her first (upbeat music) If you have the opportunity in the future, do go to farmer's markets because they are everywhere. You'll find something any And they are one of my Thumbs up if you enjoyed this video. Thank you very much for your support. I'm looking forward to your comments. If you want to watch my in Paris, season one, it's linked here in the card and also down below in the description. Do also let me know about in the comments; what are you known for? Because I know from the YouTube analytics from my channel that I have in every country in the world. So it will be super your own experiences and stories as well. See you soon, and until then, take care. Bye. (upbeat music)