If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, Sun Tzu War is part of life. It's in the nature of most living organisms to engage in battle, defeat opponents, and to dominate. With humans, we see this happen in war, in in the night club, and even on YouTube. And chances are that when we're not engaging waging war against ourselves. The Art of War by Sun Tzu is an ancient Chinese that are devoted to the strategic and tactical The Art of War explains in detail how we must to win. What makes a strong army? In what manner should we approach the enemy And how should we use spies to garner information, Aside from specific tips on combat, the Art Sun Tzu argues that war shouldn't be taken is defeating the enemy without fighting, and is the business of a general. He emphasizes the use of intelligence over the smart way. The beauty of the Art of War is that its wisdom even in times of peace, when we don't have sports, and daily conflicts in general. This video explores the wisdom of Sun Tzu's Sun Tzu, also known as Master Sun, was a military 2,500 thousand years ago and is traditionally But some Chinese scholars doubt the existence is a compilation of works by different authors. Sun Tzu supposed to have lived during the that Taoist sage Lao Tzu and philosopher Confucius His birthplace is disputed. Some say he was born in the state of Qi, others But the oldest available sources agree that the king of Wu. Throughout the ages, Sun Tzu's work inspired as outside the military. The Vietnamese general Vo Nguyen Giap, Battle of Dien Bien Phu, by using tactics And Brazilian soccer coach Luiz Felipe Scolari 2002 World Cup. The Art of War emphasizes the importance of The underlying philosophy is that victory battle is fought. This means that with sufficient knowledge the chances of winning a battle. Which side is stronger? Who's more likely to win? Good research is essential. And if necessary, we need to employ spies We must know what we're up against and be To create an obedient army, it's vital for of soldier needs a different treatment. Self-awareness is key; as if we know ourselves, and which enemies we should run from. Oftentimes it's better to avoid conflict According to Sun Tzu, the highest victory Unfortunately, this ideal isn't always an That's why in life we ought to pick our fighting and which are a waste of energy and And the battles we choose must be fought as The strength of an army is limited; even the fuel, army vehicles, and, of course, the soldiers Lengthy wars are disastrous for a country that participate. Thus, the best way to win a battle is by striking Don't destroy the enemy's cities and resources needlessly kill the enemy's soldiers when Here we begin to see the Taoist influences advocate for mindless destruction, but for as intact as possible, so their force can I quote: In war, better take a state intact than destroy Better take an army, a regiment, a detachment, Ultimate excellence lies not in winning every ever fighting. The highest form of warfare is to attack strategy The next, to attack alliances; the next to The lowest form of war is to attack cities. Siege warfare is the last resort. End quote. In war, victory is a product of measurement, If victory is clear: fight. If defeat is certain: do not fight. If we choose to fight, we need to have sufficient that lead us to victory. For example, when we outnumber an enemy greatly, But when we are outnumbered, it's better In such a situation, applying guerilla warfare in Afghanistan. The Taliban mingled with civilians and used unseen while using sophisticated propaganda flexibility among their ranks. If they would have attacked their enemy head-on, But by using coordinated hit-and-run techniques, A way to win smart is the art of deception. I quote: When able, feign inability; When near, appear far; End quote. You might remember the Iraqi minister of information up appearances, telling the audiences that He might have been reading The Art of War. Unfortunately for him, his attempts to deceive &quot;They are not near Baghdad. Don't believe them.&quot; In war, it's essential to be adaptive to Like water, war has no constant form. The enemy changes all the time, as well as Sun Tzu encourages us to derive victory from staying formless ourselves. This means that we should always observe the to them. This is how we stay aware of our opponent's to our advantage. For example, Sun Tzu tells us to avoid the homesick, and that we should watch certain As he puts it: "defence implies lack; attack He also tells us ensure our own invulnerability, This is basically the core strategy when playing for your opponent to make a mistake, and exploit The Art of War lays out different situations For example, we should camp on high grounds And if the enemy crosses a river towards us, half of his troops cross before we strike. Sun Tzu distinguishes nine kinds of battlegrounds, For example, when the ground is strategically For a company, this could be a specific location And for an army, it could be elevated terrain But there's also 'death ground', on An example of death ground is the Battle of was the final battle against Sauron. Sun Tzu teaches us the importance of finding We shouldn't be too reckless, but not cowards And it's dangerous to be easily triggered temper into battle. This is an important lesson for a YouTuber, rude comments and internet trolls will only are unnecessary to fight. Also, a general should be compassionate to being too concerned with them leads to worry I quote: There are five pitfalls for a general: recklessness, to capture, a hot temper, prone to provocation; concern for his men, leading to trouble. End quote. The Art of War teaches us how pick and win Rather than focusing on brute force, Sun Tzu our enemies and ourselves, so we can be victorious He teaches us how to be smarter than our opponents, to our advantage. At the same time, he urges us to defeat without as possible. If we can defeat an enemy without bloodshed, discipline, and adapt to the changing nature Thank you for watching.