- LEDs don't get their color And you can see that because that also glows the same red color. The color of the light comes from the electronics themselves. The casing just helps us In 1962, general Electric created the first visible LED. It glowed a faint red. A few years after that, created a green LED. But for decades, all we So LEDs could only be used calculators, and watches. If only we could make red, green, and blue to make white, and every other color, unlocking LEDs for every type from light bulbs, to phones, to computers, to TVs to billboards. But blue was almost impossible to make. (dramatic music) Throughout the 1960s, every big electronics from IBM to GE, to Bell Labs, raced to create the blue LED. They knew it would be worth billions. Despite the efforts of nothing worked. 10 years after Holonyak's original LED turned into 20, then 30, and the hope of ever using According to a director at Monsanto, these won't ever replace They'd only be used in and stereo sets to see This might still be true who defied the entire industry and made three radical breakthroughs to create the world's first blue LED. (dramatic music) Shuji Nakamura was a researcher company named Nichia. They had recently expanded of semiconductors to be of red and green LEDs. But by the late 1980s, the semiconductor division They were competing against companies in a crowded Tensions started to run high. Younger employees begged while senior workers called And at Nichia, money was in short supply. Nakamura's lab mainly he had scavenged and Phosphorus leaks in his lab that his coworkers had By 1988, Nakamura's supervisors with his research that So it was out of desperation that he brought a radical and president Nobuo Ogawa. (dramatic music) The elusive blue LED, that the likes of of Sony, had all failed at. What if Nichia could be After suffering loss after for more than a decade, Ogawa took a gamble. He devoted 500 million yen or $3 million, likely around 15% of the to Nakamura's moonshot Project. Everyone knew that LEDs have the potential to replace light bulbs, because light bulbs, the universal are actually terrible at making light. They work by running current which gets so hot, it glows. But most of the electromagnetic radiation comes out as infrared, heat. Only a negligible In contrast, LED stands It's right there in the name. LEDs primarily create light, and a diode is just a which only allows current So here's how an LED works. When you have an isolated atom, each electron in that atom You can think of these energy from a hockey stadium, and all atoms of the same element, when they are far apart from each other have identical available energy levels. But when you bring multiple something interesting happens. The outermost electrons now feel the pole, not only of their own nucleus, but of all the other nuclei as well. And as a result, their So instead of being identical, they become a series of closely spaced, but separate energy levels. An energy band. The highest energy band is known as the valence band, and the next higher energy band is called the conduction band. You can think of it In conductors, the valence This means with a little electrons can jump into and if an electric field is applied, they can jump from one and conduct current through the material. In insulators, the valence band is full, and the difference in and conduction bands, So when an electric field is There are no available seats to move into in the valence band, and the band gap is too to jump into the conduction band, which brings us to semiconductors. Semiconductors are similar to insulators, except the band gap is much smaller. This means at room temperature, a few electrons will to jump into the conduction band, and now they can easily seats and conduct current. Not only that, the empty seats they left behind in the valence band can also move. Well, really, it's the nearby electrons jumping into those empty seats. But if you look from afar, it's as though the empty seat or hole is moving like a positive direction to the electrons (soft music) By themselves, pure semiconductors To make them way more functional, you have to add impurity This is known as doping. For example, in silicon, you can add a small number Phosphorus is similar to silicon, so it easily fits into the lattice, but it brings with it one This electron exists in a donor level just beneath the conduction band. So with a bit of thermal energy, all these electrons can jump and conduct current. Since most of the charges that can move in this type of which are negative, this sort of semiconductor n for negative, but I should point out itself is still neutral. It's just that most of the mobile charge carriers are negative. They're electrons. So there is also another type of the mobile charge and it's called p-type. To make p-type silicon, you add a small number Boron fits into the lattice, but brings with it one fewer So it creates an empty acceptor level just above the valence band. And with a bit of thermal energy, electrons can jump outta the valence band, leaving behind holes. It is these positive holes for carrying current in Again, the material overall is uncharged, it's just that most of are positive holes. Where things get interesting of p-type and n-type together. Without even connecting this to a circuit, some electrons will diffuse from n to p and fall into the holes in the p-type. This makes the p-type a and the n-type a little So there is now an electric field inside an inert piece of material. Electrons keep diffusing until the electric field becomes so large, it prevents them from crossing over. And now we have established an area depleted of There are no electrons and no holes in the valence band. If you connect a battery it simply expands the depletion region until its electric field of the battery and no current flows. But if you flip the then the depletion region shrinks, the electric field decreases, and electrons can flow from n to p. When an electron falls from in the valence band, that emitted as a photon. The energy change of the and this is how a light The size of the band of the light emitted. In pure silicon, the band gap So the photon released isn't These LEDs are actually for your TV, and you can Moving up the spectrum, you light LEDs were red and then green, and why blue was so hard. A photon of blue light and therefore a larger band gap. By the 1980s, after hundreds of millions of for the right material, had come up empty handed. But researchers had at least figured out the first critical requirement, No matter what material it required a near Any defects in the crystal lattice, disrupt the flow of electrons. So instead of emitting their it is instead dissipated as heat. So the first step in was to disappear to Florida. He knew an old colleague to use a new crystal Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition, or MOCVD. An MOCVD reactor, was and still is the best way It works by injecting vapor molecules of your crystal into a hot with a base material called It's important that the the crystal lattice to create a stable, smooth crystal. This is a precise art. The crystal layers as just a couple of atoms. Nakamura joined the lab But his time there was miserable. He wasn't allowed to so he spent 10 of his 12 almost from scratch. Even worse, his lab mates shunned him because Nakamura didn't have a doctorate, nor any academic papers to his name, as Nichia didn't allow publishing. His lab mates, all PhD researchers, dismissed him as a lowly technician. This experience fueled him. Nakamura wrote, &quot;I feel resentful when people looked down on me. I developed more fighting spirit. I would not allow myself to (inspirational music) He returned to Japan in 1989 One, an order for a brand and two, a fervent desire to get his PhD. At that time in Japan, without having to go to university, simply by publishing five papers. Nakamura had always known his chances of inventing the blue LED were low. But now he had a backup plan. Even if he didn't succeed, he But now the question was which material should he research? By this time, scientists had to two main candidates, zinc These were both theoretically, in the blue light range. Zinc selenide was the far When grown in an MOCVD reactor, it had only a .3% lattice mismatch with its substrate, gallium arsenide. Therefore, zinc selenide defects per square centimeter, within the upper limit Its only issue was that while scientists had figured out multiple different ways to create n-type zinc selenide, no one knew how to create p-type. In contrast, gallium by almost everybody for three reasons. First, it was much harder to The best substrate for growing but its lattice mismatch was 16%. This resulted in higher defects, over 10 billion per square centimeter. The second problem was scientists had only ever created n-type gallium nitride using silicon. P-type was elusive. And third, to be commercially viable, a blue LED would have to have of at least a thousand microwatts. That's two orders of magnitude more than any So between the two candidates, almost all researchers were Nakamura surveyed the crowded field and decided that if he were going to publish five papers by himself, he'd better focus on gallium nitride, where the competition This material's main claim to fame was one development back in 1972, when RCA engineer Herbert gallium nitride blue LED, but So RCA slashed the project's 20 years later, scientific When Nakamura attended the conference in Japan, the had over 500 attendees. The talks on gallium nitride had five. (dramatic music) Two of those five attendees on gallium nitride, Dr. Isamu Akasaki and his former grad In contrast to Nakamura's they were researchers one of Japan's best. A few years earlier, they on the first problem of Instead of growing gallium they first grew a buffer This has a lattice spacing in between that of the other two to grow a clean gallium The only issue was that the for the MOCVD reactor, making the process hard to scale. But Nakamura wasn't even Back at Nichia, he couldn't get normally in his new MOCVD reactor. After six months, desperate for results, he decided to take the machine apart and build a better version himself. His 10 months spent putting were suddenly invaluable. He began following the arrive at the lab at 7:00 AM. Spend the first half of the day welding, cutting, Spend the rest of the day experimenting with the modified reactor At 7:00 PM go home, eat Nakamura repeated this taking no weekends and no holidays except for New Year's Day, the most important holiday in Japan. (soft music) After a year and a half he came into the lab on a As usual, he tinkered grew a gallium nitride and tested it. But this time, the electron than any gallium nitride ever Nakamura called it the most His trick was to add a second nozzle to the MOCVD reactor. The gallium nitride reactant in the hot chamber, mixing in the air to form a powdery waste. But the second nozzle of inert gas, pinning the to form a uniform crystal. For years, scientists had to MOCVD because they introduce more turbulence. But Nakamura used a special nozzle so that even when the streams combined, they remained laminar. He called his invention Now, he was ready to take but instead of copying their his two flow design allowed so smooth and stable, as a buffer layer on This in turn, yielded of gallium nitride on top, without the issues of aluminum. Nakamura now had the highest quality gallium nitride crystals ever made. But just as he was getting started, things took a wrong turn. (dramatic music) While he had been in Florida, Nobuo Ogawa had stepped back In his day, Nobuo had been designing the company's first products. It's why he supported Nakamura's But in his place, his became CEO of the company, and the younger Ogawa had One Nichia client said, &quot;He has a mind of steel, and he remembers everything.&quot; In 1990, an executive at Matsushita, an LED manufacturer and visited the company to In it, he claimed zinc declaring &quot;gallium nitride has no future.&quot; That very same day, Nakamura stop work on gallium nitride immediately. Eji had never supported the research and wanted to end what he But Nakamura crumpled up and he did so again, and again, when a succession of similar notes and phone calls came Out of spite, he published his without Nichia's knowledge. It was his first paper. One down, four to go. With crystal formation settled, he turned to the second obstacle, creating p-type gallium nitride. Here Akazaki and Amano had They had created a gallium with magnesium, but at first, it didn't perform as a However, after exposing it did behave as a p-type, the world's first p-type gallium nitride, after 20 years of trying. The catch was that no And the process of with electrons was too slow At first, Nakamura copied but he suspected the beam Maybe all the crystal needed was energy. So he tried heating magnesium to 400 degrees Celsius in a The result, a completely p-type sample. This worked even better than which only made the surfaces and simply heating things up His work also revealed why the To make gallium nitride with MOCVD, you supply but ammonia also contains hydrogen. Where there should have doped gallium nitride, these hydrogen atoms were sneaking in and bonding with the magnesium, Adding energy to the system, released the hydrogen from the material, freeing up the holes again. (dramatic music) By now, Nakamura had all the ingredients to make a prototype blue LED, and he presented it at a and received a standing ovation. He was beginning to but even though he had created it was more of a blue violet color and still extremely inefficient, with a light output power of just 42 microwatts, well below the 1000 microwatt At Nichia, the new CEO's Eji sent written orders to and turn whatever he had into a product. His job was on the line, but in Nakamura's own words, I had been successful to company orders and At this point, he only getting his blue LED of a thousand microwatts. (soft music) A known trick to increase was to create a well, a thin layer of material called an active layer that shrinks the band gap just a bit. This encourages more electrons to fall from the end type in the p-type valence band. The best active layer for to be indium gallium nitride, which would not only make but also narrow it just the right amount to bring its blue violet This time, Akasaki and They were stuck trying to grow indium gallium nitride in the first place. Amano recalled, &quot;It was generally and indium nitride would not But Nakamura had an advantage, his ability to customize This allowed him to use brute force, adjusting the reactor as he could onto the gallium nitride, in the hopes that at To his surprise, the technique worked, giving him a clean indium He quickly incorporated this but the well worked a little too well and overflowed with electrons, leaking them back into the Unfazed, within a few months, by creating the opposite He returned to his reactor one more time to make aluminum gallium nitride, a compound with a larger electrons from escaping (dramatic music) The structure of the blue LED than anyone could have By 1992, Shuji Nakamura had this. - And I showed the chairman, I told him, &quot;Please, hey chairman come to my office.&quot; I showed him the blue LED and he said, &quot;ohh, this is great no?&quot; I became so happy. I just became, out of my office, yeah. - [Derek] After 30 years of searching by countless scientists, Nakamura had done it. He had created a glorious, bright blue LED that could even be seen in daylight. It had a light output and emitted a perfect blue It was over 100 times brighter than the previous pseudo-blue Nakamura wrote, &quot;I felt like I had reached the top of Mount Fuji.&quot; Nichia called a press conference in Tokyo to announce the world's The electronics industry was stunned. A researcher from Toshiba remarked, &quot;Everyone was caught The effect on Nichia's fortunes Orders flooded in, and by the end of 1994, they were manufacturing 1 Within three years, the company's revenue had nearly doubled. In 1996, they made the by placing a yellow phosphor over the LED. This chemical absorbs the blue photons and re-radiates them in a broad spectrum across the visible range. Soon enough, Nichia first white LED. At last, unlocking the final LED lighting. Over the next four years, By 2001, their revenue was Over 60% came from blue LED products. Today, Nichia is one of the in the world with an annual As for Nakamura, to whom Nichia owed the quadrupling of its fortunes? (dramatic music) - I increased my salary, $60,000. After doubling, yeah. - I heard you only got $170 bonus - Each patent. - So you got $170 bonus for the patent. - Yes, yes. - [Derek] This was all while the blue LED was generating hundreds of Eji Ogawa had always seen as a liability, not a strength. The message was clear. In 2000, after more Nakamura left the company for the US, where job offers had been pouring in. But his troubles with Nichia weren't over. He began consulting for Nichia was furious and sued him Nakamura responded by counter-suing Nichia for never properly compensating seeking $20 million. In 2001, the Japanese and ordered Nichia to pay him But Nichia appealed and the case was eventually settled with a payout of $8 million. In the end, this was only enough to cover Nakamura's legal fees. (soft music) This is all he got for an invention that now comprises an from house lights to streetlights. While you watch this video If you're outside following chances are you are relying on blue LEDs. We might even be getting too much of them. You may have heard warnings to before bed because it can That all comes from the But as for lighting, there to an LED bulb. Compared to an incandescent they are far more efficient. They last many times and are completely customizable. 30 years after the first white LED, high-end bulbs today allow you to choose between 50,000 different shades of white. Most importantly, their price of dollars more than other types of bulbs. And at their efficiency, and electricity pricing, you can recoup that and continue to save for years after that. The result is a lighting revolution. In 2010, just 1% of in the world were LED. In 2022, it was over half. Experts estimate that nearly all lighting sales will be LED. (soft music) The energy savings will be enormous. Lighting accounts for 5% A full switch to LEDs could tons of CO2, equivalent to taking almost half the cars in the world off the road. Today, Nakamura's research of LEDs, micro LEDs, and UV LEDs. - [Derek] So what are - LEDs, lasers, power devices. This is one the best facility in the US. - And this is because of you? What's a standard LED size? - [Shuji] 300 times 200 microns. - [Derek] Okay. - [Shuji] Smallest is five microns. - [Derek] That is insanely tiny. - So basically you can use that for like near-eye display such as AR and VR. - You could have like a retina display that's like right up here? - Yep. - A human hair would be about that thick. - [Shuji] Yep. - And that's a really, really tiny LED. UV LEDs could be used to in hospitals or kitchens. Just flick on the UV lights and pathogens would be dead in seconds. - COVID-19, you know, UV LED companies' stock prices were going, skyrocketed because using these UV LEDS. We can sterilize all the COVID-19, no? For emitting diode, we use For UV, we use aluminum gallium nitride. [Derek] Okay. - [Shuji] 'Cause the - [Derek] Do you think - [Shuji] It's okay, it work, The efficiency is less than 10%. The cost is very high. But if the efficiency cost is almost comparable - [Derek] And you think Like the efficiency will go up? - [Shuji] Yeah, yeah, I think so. - It's just a matter of time. - Yeah, I think so. - [Derek] And he's even tackling one of the biggest challenges of our time. - [Shuji] I'm interested in physics. - [Derek] Me too! - I'm still interested in nuclear fusion. So recently I started the - Really? - Oh yeah, last year. - No way. (soft music) - In 2014, Nakamura, Akasaki and Amano were awarded the Nobel Prize in physics for creating the blue LED. Shortly afterwards, Nakamura for supporting his work, and he offered to visit and make amends, but they turned down his offer and today their But perhaps even more By the time Nakamura released he had published over 15 papers, and he finally received his Today he has published over 900 papers. Throughout his entire journey, one thing has never changed. What is your favorite color? - Oh, blue. - [Derek] Was it always blue? Or only after you made the LED? - I was born in a fishing village. Fishing village. In front of the house Blue always. - While I was learning I realized that what set of researchers trying it wasn't necessarily his knowledge, but his determination, critical thinking, and problem solving skills. Where others saw dead ends, he saw potential solutions. So if you're looking for a free and easy way to start for yourself right now, look no further than Brilliant will make you a better thinker and problem solver while and everything from math and data science, to and you name it. On Brilliant, you'll by trying things for yourself, and you'll not only gain knowledge of key concepts, but learn to apply them to real world situations, all giving you the tools to solve whatever problems come your way. There is so much to learn on Brilliant. They have thousands of interactive lessons on just about anything that you're curious about. And because each lesson is bite-sized, you can do them in just minutes. So if you're like me and made a resolution to learn something new Brilliant will help you actually do it. The best part is you right on your phone. So whenever you have a few minutes, you can be building a So to try everything Brilliant for 30 days, visit or click that link down and the first 200 of you will get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription. So I wanna thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.