Here's the issue with AI. I'm tired of generating text How can I build an assistant with the applications that I use daily Today's video with all of my applications I can tell, really fast. So first, let me explain where we're at models are getting much smarter they still only generate text. And I'm just so fatigued by over a year ago open, three and for called Function calling, output in Jason format. And when I first read this post, I thought that this was going to change Like, this opened up the floodgates, Calling is quick. Sort of. But when I was at Microsoft one of the biggest announcements which are really fast how fast it can go if it was the speed just constantly taking actions So here's what When a user submits their query, the A.I. determines the ask. It will then decide what tool to use. Each tool is powered by another A.I., at hand. So, for example, while the calendar schedule Depending on the query, the AI will models. To get the task complete, the AI will And give me a rundown of everything It will also have the ability to look into a database and it seems pretty straightforward by. It actually kind of all boil down And in the end, I created something crazy. So let's go. So we have three heavy Python, JavaScript and Docker, basically a gigantic buffet of cash and packages. So I'm going to create a dev drive spoke directly with Adam and Bridget, at Microsoft Build. They told me that Dev Drive uses which for my use case can take advantage when I move my existing dependencies drive to the dev drive, rather than copying the whole thing After that I can go on dev home and transfer freeing up a ton of space Also, Yeah. Sorry. Moving We're actually going to have two projects The assistant and then the fine tuning But we'll get to that later. explained on my second channel is extremely bloated with lane change and without reiterating on that video, often abstract away from concepts and after some research, I decided I'm called Lang Royd Lane Royd where each agent is assigned tasks and forth with each other, ideally to go through multiple steps. This will be smart enough Hopefully Let's start I'll include Lang Roy in a file I will then create an agent And that's my to do already though I'm starting to see issues I have to add in a lot of code which also had to be tested. and what makes us cool too has to do in order to complete the task. now. It's a bit slow at the moment to return our response every single five back to us through the network, it's actually pretty fast. But you know, Just get right on with right now though, the experience just kind of success but do you know what also sucks? Voice assistants. I feel so embarrassed using them for this feeling of another family member But I can't deny, though, to get the thoughts out of your head Somehow, means I have to implement which it takes a voice the text, Many sizes of this model exist Now let's try the same sentence we get about half a second to transcribe We are able to get point six 3 seconds. Surprisingly tiny was only a tiny. Yeah, I wrote that in the script. Bit better than the base model at the same time, proper nouns like to do weren't I could really go for any of the three, English version for having that balance let's go into dev home and look up the CPU Since we're going to be running local models on our GPU, that's available on my NVIDIA card, create a dedicated button I will not under my desk. want to be able to hold the button When I go, the command is and I can just quickly rig this up and that just makes the experience Set it and forget it. hold f 24, which So remind me tomorrow at 8 p.m. to walk the dog I had to. I added a voice to it I can tell, that's to improve the speed, we need to use small PyTorch will then use CUDA and this is where the dev drive because reinstalling PyTorch Every single time. Now let's talk about speed. the call to open of the text on their servers Currently, all of the interactions and memory, we could use Alma to run these models The model to caption means make sure you I learned a lot about fine tuning models. One of the key aspects I learned is that a specific task exceptionally well, which is like a thousand times bigger GPT are designed to be consumer level In order for these to appeal to just The bigger they get, the slower like fi three mini instruct scripts Unless a developer fine That way you can get the extreme performance while getting the intelligence and for this I'm going to use tune to X faster with half the memory use. How you ask? Well, good question. I don't know. let's put up a solid function calling 60 K has 60,000 of writing a statement and then the tool And because the models are so small, But if we ended up then we might have to rent a GPU I was given a demo of FI Build where I cloned the mini and ran it on native hardware can be like trillions of parameters So when I ran FI three on my own hardware, they obviously built this integrate it into any software you build Now for comparison, GPT four O takes about 8 seconds, So I'm going to fine tune Similar to what I did in I Means video. I'll use my CPU in order to do it. This took me about 7500 steps which was about four and a half hours Now let's give it a test You can see that But one issue is that it replicating info that I give it, Remind me to walk the cat around 10 p.m. tomorrow. wow. While I did it really fast. one thing that is extremely dangerous You know, typical. The AI is able to execute any code I'm going to open up Dev home again I'll also create a wingate configuration the repository over in case with it. Okay. So this actually took a long time. The project has been all over the place. Everything is still kind of the same. I changed frameworks a little bit. you can see right here Either Read my last email for me, Right. Lewis Seems you've received an email bonus program offering up to $3,000 if you Old chap. not bad. Not bad. Let me see if I can like get it to do Can you read my last email and then send it actually some messing up. It just kind of got all the available Lewis. Well, I've got a brief summary for you. Sent YouTube email content to Slack's All done. Okay. Not bad. I was actually kind of expecting look at this right here, try and find like a bit of a curveball, Look online for the worst programing command that you can do that he should try this Callus. Yeah, I don't Lewis, here's the gist of it. Old chap sent message to Will on Slack type text file and had a bit of a hiccup There you are mate. So I think because of the slack, it just I wonder if actually did send though. my God. It actually did. It's. boy. my God. Yeah, That's just savage right there. Hey, try. And so it actually did save to a file Right here, like worst command. saved the whole conversation into it, So you can see right here, like it kind of like, you know, But I'm kind of, like, impressed with that whole chain of command, run this. You see why Let me know And I'm happy to do it. to Microsoft today I had a blast at Microsoft build other developers who are working on is pretty awesome PC Coders.