The horn of departure is sounded, Iron-blooded soldiers, you are dead today. Just follow the old rules and annihilate them all or kill the captain. The game is over, let's start walking. Brothers, the performance has begun . People inside listen to you. You are surrounded. Immediately put down your weapons and walk . Hey dad , where are you? I 'm negotiating business with a partner . What are you talking about? Do you still have your father in your heart? No matter where you are, come to my office immediately. Dad, I'm busy outside right now. Retreat, retreat . What are you talking about? No, dad. I mean, I, I mean, I quickly retreated to apologize to you. I tell you, Zheng Shuai, no matter where you are now, you must appear in front of me within ten minutes , otherwise you will not be able to go home tonight, idiot. What are you talking about? Who is the idiot dad? My signal is not good. I'll go back and call you as soon as possible. If you lose , your teammates will also suffer numerous casualties. If I win, it's enough for me . Okay, actually, I want to congratulate you. You passed my test. Tell the truth . In fact , I have already negotiated with your boss about this military fan club. I have acquired it and you will be my employee. Work hard and be a good employee. I don't know what you are talking about, but if you lose, you will lose. From me The World Disappears, brother, are you planning to sell this thing out? In the past two years, you have lost more money and made less money . If you can survive to this day, I have run out of ammunition and food. If anyone is willing to take over this stall , thank God. Brother , do you want to think about it again ? Maybe you can survive it. We'll survive this off-season. Besides, my brothers and I want to work with you. I've made up my mind, but don't worry . I talked about you with the new boss and said that you are an honest person, hard-working, conscientious, and eager to learn. He agreed to let you stay . The new boss I'm talking about is Zheng Shuai. My dad scared me. I asked you, are you missing some parts? Why can't you turn? How can I put my future in his hands? If he takes over, I'll resign .' Help me take a look at this . What's the business? Dad, if you have tea, then help your son take a look. Please, Dad, thank you, Dad. You two are my nemesis, Comrade Junlong. In addition to happy birthday, you also want to What am I saying? I like you. I can't hear you. I like you. If you hate it, let me remind you. You used to hesitate when you said this sentence. Last month, you promised me that you would say it today. Tell me honestly. Happy birthday. Forget it . I'll let you go today. You can think about it after you go back. Next time, tell me properly. Although it's not an expensive thing , your singing takes a lot out of your voice , so I bought you Pang Dahai. By the way, you must not drink it when you have a cold. Fatty Dahai has a cold temper . Don't open it until you drink it. Each box contains something I want to say to you. What is this? I was the same as you when I was young. I am a die-hard military fan. I have always wanted to do something related to the military. Now I have watched several. I want to build the best military fan club in the country. Now we are almost in talks and just have to sign a contract. But now I have met with the start-up funds. A small question, how much does it cost? No more, no more than one million. Where are you taking me? What is this? Now you can try the button in your hand. It's so beautiful. Xiaoyu will definitely have a person in this city. Our own warm home, Junlong, I believe in you, but it's enough for me to have you alone. Let me ask you a few questions. Just ask about the company's accounts and operations. How do you think about this? Dad, how long are you prepared to recover the company's costs? Where does the profit come from? How much market share do you use to maintain relations with all aspects of society? If I answer you one by one, I guess it will be dawn. I still want to be a soldier. This is my enlistment application. Why do you want to enlist? This is the wrong thread again. With a personality like yours, can you do something down-to-earth? But Dad, I really want to do this. You want to do it. When your brain gets hot, you enlist in the army. You think joining the army is a piece of cake? A young man like you can get in if he wants. Let me tell you how much your father has worked hard for your future . You are still not satisfied . Your father has worked hard to help you establish a career. You should be satisfied. You said, which kid who has graduated from college can be like you? You just don't know how to cherish your foundation , okay, I won't tell you any more , you're going to work at the company tomorrow, it's just decided, but Dad, Brother Xiaoyu , what is this? It's raining like a tomb , it's so late, I'm alone outside and you still don't pick me up. Are you so worried about the phone call ? Brother, what is this? This is Fatty Dahai Xiaoyu . Originally, Mr. Sun, he has been busy contacting you about the recording studio these two days. He heard that you have a birthday today and specially booked a banquet to celebrate you. Let's go together. Mr. Sun is waiting for us there. Let's go with brother. Brother Junlong is celebrating my birthday. I don't want to go. Mr. Sun will help you with your busy schedule . Junlong will definitely understand. This is also to realize your dream, right? Huang Junlong Xiaoyu, if this is helpful to your career, then you should go to Huang Junlong, Huang Junlong, am I wrong , or do you really have the nerve to send my sister such a box of fat sea? This is also called a gift. Ah, is this worthy? Brother Feng , when my life gets better in the future, I will compensate Xiaoyu. Why don't you look at how miserable you are? It's not enough for you to live in poverty by yourself. You have to hook up with my sister to live a hard life with you, brother? What nonsense are you talking about? Xiaoyu, why are you back again? I'm here to get my birthday gift. Don't take it. Come on, Junlong. Say it quickly. Let's go. Let's eat. Junlong. Let's go. Don't keep Mr. Sun waiting. Dad is on time. Yes, let's go. Good morning, Mr. Zheng. Ziqi will ask Manager Zhou for the meeting in the morning. Are the materials ready ? They are all ready. I will announce something to everyone at today's regular meeting . I believe you all know the handsome Zheng next to me . From today on, he will serve as my special assistant, Assistant Zheng. He is mainly responsible for handling some of the tasks I gave him. Of course, everyone's cooperation is needed, especially the administrative work. The department, the finance department, but everyone has to give him a lot of help because he is very young. Hello everyone. In fact, since I was sensible, I have witnessed my father shooting down all the lifeblood of the business with his bullets that are always accurate . I remember that I When I was young, my biggest wish was not to inherit my father's business talent, but to hold a sniper rifle and aim at any angle to become a super cool sniper. But in fact , now that I think about it , my father is actually more like a more professional sniper planner. So starting from today, as his special assistant, I hope that I can work hard to play the role of a sight in my future work. I hope that our work can be a decisive battle and win unexpectedly. Congratulations, Assistant Zheng. From today on, I will assist you in your work. Please take it easy . Why do you feel so gloating about your misfortune? Tell you about such a boring job. If you put in the work right away, you won't feel bored. Okay, okay, I know. You have to work hard to live up to Manager Zhou's good intentions. You really don't cause trouble. I can't bear it. Take your blame. Hello, welcome, welcome. Please see what you need. Give me a rocket launcher and blast this place. Why are you so weird? Is there something wrong ? Of course there is something. What's your attitude? Why, the distinguished guest is here. At least have a drink. Let's boil some water and let's go. I don't have time to play with you . Come get serious and come with us. I 'm not free . I'm not joking. I'm serious. Let's sign a contract. After signing for five years, your salary will definitely be double what it is here. And I want to help you with insurance, food, housing and paid annual leave. How about taking off your skirt and let's work hard together? That 's almost it . The salary is already very generous . I'm not interested . Then I'm interested in serving coffee. Serving coffee is at least a job. It's more respectable for you to fool around , but I'll give you enough. Okay , you love your job, right? Then work hard and order us. Why are you still standing there ordering? What kind of attitude are you throwing? I'm sorry for treating your guests like this. Please take a look. What do you need to drink ? Give me a special break lattes general latt e mery canoe please . Why didn't you hear clearly? Do you need me to say it again? No need to wait. He didn't know that he was scheduled to speak today. Mr. Zheng, it's almost time. The banquet has to start. This kid &quot;has no idea what's important. Ziqi, has he called? It's all your usual mister. Espresso and delicious latte, skim latte, American style, slow use. This buddy is still here. &quot; What's wrong with the two brushes ? You see, that girl's legs are so long. She drove from here to here. You're talking about a giraffe. Look for yourself. Where is the beauty? She smiled brightly . She passed by and came to exchange for a cup of coffee. It's so easy to moisten your mouth , can you change it to another cup ? The coffee in this has a peppery taste. Where is the store manager? What's wrong? Sir, do you have any questions? You are just trying to play with us. If you have any opinions , you can't give them to us. Our pepper-flavored coffee, where is the store manager? Come on, store manager, your coffee is also pepper-flavored. Sorry, sorry. This is a mistake in our work. I will definitely deal with this matter seriously . How to deal with it? Huang Junlong came with me and recited the rules of the store every day. You just eat. I know it's wrong. It's my fault, boss. Get out. Huang Junlong . Who's name is Huang Junlong? Who is Huang Junlong ? What's the matter with Mr. Huang Junlong? It's none of your business. Go aside. Huang Junlong, you're hooking up with my buddy's girl. Don't you watch? What are you, this kid, and your hobby of hooking up with other people's girlfriends ? Get out of here. I am Huang Junlong , so it's your kid. Tell me, how are you going to handle this ? I know who asked you to come. When you go back, tell Xia Feng , I'm with you. Xiaoyu is in free love. Even if he is a brother, he has no right to interfere and destroy free love, right? F IF TV. I think you are tired of living. FIFTH. You can't understand human language, right ? That 's enough . Beauty, if you keep doing this, I won't be polite . You said that you are still on the pole , but you two are so weak that you still come out to fool around. Bai Hang, you can just watch the excitement today . Is it related to you that I am here? Does Huang Junlong draw his sword to help when there is injustice on the road ? We have taken over the matter of the young master asking some brothers. Today I am going to play with you seriously. If you are not satisfied with anything, bring your big brother and let us change places and have a good chat. Huang Junlong, I count you lucky today. If you don't have good eyesight next time, I won't be polite to you. Get out of here. The incident didn't scare you, did it? From now on, just leave such matters to us men to handle. What if you, a girl, are accidentally injured? Thank you for reminding me. I will pay attention to it in the future. Huang Junlong, please stop. Look, look, look, look. It's not a lot of trouble. You 've caused a lot of trouble, so don't pack up and get out. My temple can't afford to pay for the things that an old Buddha like you breaks. I'll deduct your salary from your salary and won't let you pay it back. You should thank me for everything. I paid all the compensation. You, the boss, are so unkind. If this guy hadn't stopped me just now, the roof would have been lifted off. You have no right to speak. You don't have the right to speak . You're not even willing to go with me . Huang Junlong, please pull me down. Don't pretend to be fat. You said you were with me? What future does such a person have? You don't need to worry about my business. I will pay you back. You don't need to pay back. As long as you follow me obediently, the money won't be a problem. I'll tell you again. I don't want to be with a young man like you. Miss Xindouhu, I just had some misunderstandings with my old friend . Didn't it bother you? Does this matter have anything to do with me? If it affects your interest, then my sin will be huge. I can't even forgive myself. Okay. Otherwise, let's withdraw first. Let's go. If you don't have anything else to do, I IT HAVE. FIFTH AVE - TH AVE FIFTH AVE -Wait a minute . FINT H AVE. I have a very important thing to ask you . FIFTH AVE ~ Catch the thief, catch the thief! T HAVE Why did everything about Miaoying get rushed together? T HAVE Wait for me. I'll be back soon . If nothing happens, leave it to me. You call the police and catch the thief quickly. Auntie, don't worry, stop, master. There's a bag snatcher of fee in front of us . Here, here, run, RAR, RE , run, come on, I haven't had enough fun yet, come on, kill him, come with me. Those two boys will do the robbery and leave the rest to you. I'll tell you. Ah, I've encountered this kind of thing a lot. We have to wait for the onlookers to arrive. Let's leave quickly. Otherwise, when the police and the media come, it will be very annoying. Do you often encounter this kind of thing? This is a headache. Once I knew that although we had known each other for a short time, we didn't know each other at all , so please give me the girl's name, Fang Ling Fang, and don't misunderstand me. I don't have any other intentions. We just met by chance , so we should rub shoulders afterwards. As the saying goes, it is easier to waste time than to meet early. We have already met each other too late, so why pass each other? You talk in one way, why don't you write a book? I am a practical person and need to rely on Writing a book about taking practical actions to benefit mankind is too tedious and not suitable for me. No wonder the waiters in the coffee shop said that about you. You are so arrogant. They really said that. MADISON AVE. Leave me a WeChat ID and you can answer. I will only write to you. Once again , Ziqi, I'm working outside and I 'll call you. I don't know your name yet . My name is Jiang Ting. I remember it/Be careful on the road. Ziqi, why did you come back? Where have you been? My dad's office is I have this old problem, but this pepper root works. You see, Captain Ma is really a caring person . You must thank him for me when he goes back. Zheng Donger, you hire a large number of our retired soldiers every year. We haven't had time to thank you. What can I say? We are a joint construction unit. Instructor Wen, is this a business trip or a private matter in the new city? As before, I am here to pick up the soldiers. Look at how this life is going. Dad, Dad, you have a guest here. This sister is so dashing in her military uniform. Let's talk. I'm on business. I don't know what my sister is disturbing me. This is Instructor Wen from the unit we jointly build. This is my son Zheng Shuai . Hello , Instructor Wen, hello . Dad, I'm telling you something serious this time. I'd like to hear it. This time, I really realized what a serious mistake I made by leaving my post without permission . I have made a deep self-examination. Let me just tell you what happened last time. I told you about the military fan club and the military service. Waiting outside. Go ahead, but Dad, I 'm sorry for my unsatisfactory friend. I just let the military game mess up everything all day long. When everyone is young and passionate, I think your young master is quite interesting . Climb, love, wait all my life, wait until my hair turns white, I have to wait, without love, how to win this fateful war , love, my whole life is wasted, I keep a light for you , I don't need eachother to testify for myself , love, wait, all my life, I can't wait for him, I have to wait. How to win this war of time . Brother Feng, Huang Junlong, I, Xia Feng, are warning you for the last time. Don't pester Xia Yu anymore . You'd better agree immediately , otherwise the two of us will have to rely on this to talk about this. I can't agree to this, brother Junlong. We are the only brother and sister in our old Xia family. I have to let her live a good life. I will treat you as a brother just like I did when I was a child. As long as you say a word to Xia Yu, you know what? It's okay, brother, I promise. Xiaoyu will never say such things in his life. I asked you not to say that you have nothing. How can you love her? Stop pestering Xia Yu . Brother Feng, I still call you brother because I respect you, but Xiaoyu and I are two people. We all want to be together well. I know I don't have the ability now. I promised her that I will definitely make a name for myself. I will give Xiaoyu happiness . Go and fight for your life. If things don't change, don't come back to us. Hurry up. Maybe you didn't see what happened just now. In fact, the whole process is the most intense and exciting. I heard that you even got flash bombs and smoke bombs. Those equipments are all secondary. The main thing is our tactical deployment . In fact, there is no big problem with your combat deployment . If you improve it, you won't lose. Compared with your opponent, their running-in time is longer, and their tactical deployment is also higher than yours. Facing such an opponent, your method should be simpler and clearer . Make the opponent wait for a long time B -C869 His mind will be confused. At this time, you have to constantly test your companions and attack again and again. This will effectively interfere with them. How do you know so much? Where did you learn it? Isn't this the case in TV dramas and movies nowadays? Did you play it? The ancient Yun family had three treasures, an ugly wife, a thin floor and a shabby cotton-padded jacket. He, Marshal Zheng, is now strictly following the ancient precepts. Talents like you should come to our club and help me. I plan to acquire this club B-C8698 to build the top and most professional club in the country. Then you must come and give me a call. To tell you the truth, Ziqi, I only have three days. If I don't raise one million within three days, I'm really doomed. It's really no good. How about this? I'll take it back from the company first and look for an opportunity to pay you back together. Are you crazy? You are not trying to make money, you are trying to commit crimes. You know what? Then what should I do? Besides, I don't have the power. Okay, Director Zheng, I'll come right away . You, go back and work hard . Don't cause trouble to me again. By the way, Mom, have the results of the college entrance examination come out ? How did Xiaofeng do? If Xiaofeng didn't pass , how many points did she miss ? The difference seems to be more than fifty points. Mom, tell me the truth. Did Xiaofeng pass the test? You tried your best to get into a good school in a big city, but your mother is worthless and can't afford to pay for her. Don't tell me what's the use of studying at a girl's home. You can't even raise a fraction of the tuition fee. It happens that the son of the village elder Zhao just dropped out of high school. Your father Think about it, you don't have to worry about money. I'm working now, right? I'm here to provide for Xiaofeng. You must not listen to my father. But okay, okay, don't talk about it. I'll wire the money to you in two days, mom. Remember, tell Xiaofeng that you must go to school, marry him, marry him, marry him. Please be my son. I will bear the pain for a long time. Shield*Combat Boots*Fire Wind Phoenix Army Soul Qing A Strong Army Dream General Issue Army Soul Qing Strengthen my heart and bravely embark on the journey