A portion of this video This is the biggest, most How bowling balls are made, maximize strikes, how the lanes are oiled, what it takes to be a pro and how this sport has for literally thousands of (bowling strikes) This is the science of bowling, the most popular participatory I'm super impressed with how that went. - I'm even more impressed than you are. - What is inside a bowling ball? I sent this ball to Creative Electron to get a 3D x-ray scan and this is the result. What is that? I always expected bowling perfect solid spheres, but and it's not symmetric and it's not even centered in the ball. So I went to Storm Bowling, one of only 11 bowling ball to find out how bowling balls are made. - Yeah. Basically when we always start in the center and the center part of the And as you can see this is an example of an asymmetrical shaped weight block, so it's actually a different shape about the X, the Y and the Z axis. (serene music) - The weight blocks are embedded in a core of lightweight glass beads. - That is so silky-soft. I feel like I have not What's the difference in density between this sort of filling - It's quite a bit. About two and a half to in the inner weight block than it is in the core material. - If you were to look for Number one, it says 9 6 0 which means that it weighs 9.60 pounds. And then the description here underneath, which is a 0 3, this indicates what type of a - What happens over here? - So this area right here So basically what we have are a number of different So there's a chemical reaction that occurs once it actually fills the mold and we pour that cover stock It gets extremely hot in You go right down here, she's actually pouring the pin material inside the tops of those cores. So you can see for this it's a bright orange type of a material, and she's actually filling that hole with that plug material. We've got the lane at the right here which is where we take the And then they actually On top of there there's and it actually makes the So they'll actually trim those up. - [Derek] Since the they are heavier on one - And you can see there the where it actually floats the that the ball has completely settled. And then basically a needle will come out from the bottom part and all of a sudden it'll shoot it up. And then it'll be where on the surface of the ball. - When it comes right it is extremely porous and there is a ton of friction between the ball and So every ball from right it's just a matter of how in order to get what - [Derek] But before they have to be drilled. But that is specific to each bowler. How many balls are you making a day? - [Steve] We're making over they come out of this plant right here. (smooth calm music) - Wild. I found the bowling ball &quot;You won't believe your eyes&quot;, &quot;The mind bending hook&quot;. - Right? It's how you have to sell your stuff. I get it. - [Derek] But how did Well, bowling seems to be an ancient game. Archeologists have found that looks like bowling in dating back 7,000 years. In Germany, bowling was Pins represented your sins, so you're a good Christian if Martin Luther himself was and fixed the number of pins at nine. When the game made its nine-pin bowling was banned The legend goes that people 10-pin bowling to get around the law. Whoa, totally different game. Today in the US, nine-pin because it was the one instead, charging it tax. Bowling lanes are about and 60 feet long down to the headpin. I'm using Imperial units here because that's actually The lane is made of 39 narrow boards that bowlers number for reference. They used to be made but these days, most lanes are synthetic and made of fine particles One game of bowling gives you 10 frames with two throws per frame to try to knock down all 10 pins. The highest score you can get is only 190, but strikes allow you to double so a perfect game with all strikes gives you a score of 300. If you're anything like me, the whole game is just trying to throw the ball down the middle of the and try to take as many other Do you wanna give me any tips or- - I've watched LeBron bowling, - You say that now you. (Chris laughs) - See, that's what I would normally do. And I would normally be like reasonably happy with a shot like that. But for pro-bowlers like - [Narrator] For a perfect game, - Yes! - [Derek] The game is different. And not just because they - [Narrator] And he get it! (crowd cheering) - Who you think that you are? I am. (crowd continues cheering) Hitting the headpins square on is not the perfect strategy. If you hit the headpin you're unlikely to You could end up with a split where the ball goes through the middle, or with the ball after hitting the headpin. Chances for a strike are much higher if the center of the ball hits the pins just to one side of the headpin. Board 17 and a half. In which case the ball takes which take out the others. - So we want the ball the pin behind the 1, which is the 5 pin. And then the 9 or the 8 and the 9. - [Derek] You want the ball - [Chris] Yeah. - Now the pins don't always fall this way, but the pin shape helps. Pins roll in circles like eggs, which help knock down the others. - That's right baby! Come on, don't miss. You wanted it, you got it. - [Derek] But to have an over 90% chance of getting a strike, the center of the ball has to hit with an error smaller than half a board. Needless to say, throwing a ball 60 feet straight at a target smaller Especially to do it consistently. Luckily there is a better way. - Now, if we look at the pins and as you look at them the spot between the headpin, the one that's in the center, and the 3 pin which is just right at that, that gap's pretty narrow. But as the ball hooks more, now we basically shift over, and now that space is considerably wider. - [Derek] If you can hit but at an angle of six degrees, you dramatically increase your chances of knocking them all down. Now the margin for error is greater. The ball can be coming in anywhere from board 17 to 18 and a half, that is a board and a half of room. And that still gives you greater than a 90% chance of a strike. Now, six degrees may not sound like a lot, but it's actually The problem is, if you straight at the pins and you would have to be bowling And that is impossible. Well, with the two gutters So the solution is you've got to curve the ball on one lane. I feel like I have never spun a ball. Is that, (Derek laughs) Is that hard? - So if you've got it under your hand and the ball's underneath, and you're trying to spin it, that's especially the motion - [Derek] This really became a big part of the sport by accident. - The wood gets beat up with the damage from all And so they basically created slip agents, lubricants much like oil on a car so that the lanes didn't - [Derek] So the original - The original idea was just to protect the surface of the lane. It was not to manufacture anything for my competitive-scoring - But applying oil to protect the wood meant that balls no longer grip the lane and roll without slipping Instead they could skid, rotating not in their direction of travel. Now, I've been to a lot of bowling alleys before making this video and I noticed it was a bit greasy, but I always thought that was just the nature of bowling alleys. Like the stinky rental shoes. I didn't know they intentionally Vox has a great video These days, there are machines specifically for applying - [Chris] And then as proprietors went, &quot;Huh, well yeah, it Well, if I put more in the my baller's bowl a little bit And then as technology now we have $30,000 lane machines that can put a specific - [Derek] They work kind of They can lay the oil on with varying degrees of and extend the oil pattern There are hundreds of different Usually the oil extends about so to around 40 or 45 feet. But there's always a dry that increases the friction with the ball, getting it to start And this leads to the three The skid, the hook and the roll. When a bowler releases the ball, it can be going 20 miles an hour and spinning at 500 RPM. That's nearly 10 full Right-handers typically on the lane while spinning it to the left. During the skid phase, the spinning but not rolling. As it comes to the end of the oil, the friction increases and the It hooks because of its spin, and the spin starts lining up leading to stage three, roll. The ball is rolling without slipping as it barrels into the pins. Ideally, as close to that Like the ball starts on goes straight across almost rightmost. Then hooks like at the last So that's almost like straight in the pocket there. - Yeah. That's where you Yeah. (ball hits the floor) - My very first game, it was ABC back then, I filled out the application Dad gave them the letter and the first game of bowl was 300 and they handed me a hundred dollars too, and it was like, yeah, making money now. And actually, my first, my 13th, 17th, 20th were all 300 games. I like, seven or eight 300 in my first year of men's league. - [Derek] How do you explain that? - To shoot 300 you have to get lucky Like that. Like that. It came in to hit the 1 3, 5, 9. And that that's what we - I mean, you just keep hitting them. That's almost the identical shot. Look at that, that yellow and the purple, they're almost exactly - Oh, it just goes a little bit straight. - That one, the purple one was just a little bit but it still hit the 1, Can't get much better. - [Derek] This type of because of the oil. If you try to throw a ball the Oh no. It just doesn't work. Can I actually ask you to but on the dry lane? I know it's crazy. I just want to see what like If there was no oil. It's gonna hit the lane - That's what I want to see. - All right. You're gonna throw it just - Yeah. - Oh yeah, there's no oil on the lane so the ball can't get down. As soon as it hits the lane, it's going to start hooking, you know? 'Cause if you do this, who's - So they want the oil. - Yeah. We need the oil. If we didn't have oil, And nobody would have fun. This is not fun. We don't want to do this. (Derek laughs) - For pro bowlers, the oil on the lane is a key part of the game. - Oh whoa. - Wow. Hey. - Do you look at the oil? Are you trying to scope it out or are you just kind of guessing? - I usually don't look at the oil. I let my ball be the guide. You know, I know some guys that are, you know, they get down and it's like, oh, you know, they're seeing the same thing I do when I sit down, I go like that. Nothing. I see absolutely nothing. - Whether you can see it or not, figuring out the condition can make the difference As the game wears on the bowling pushing it further down the lane and stripping it off So players have to adjust Some people say left-handers because right-handers aren't playing on their side of the lane. At most bowling alleys, they use a pattern of oil and thinner out toward the edges. This is a forgiving layout because balls that drift too while balls going straighter can continue down the lane for longer before making their turn into the pins. But for pro bowlers, and players have to adjust Some people seem to think are better than they are, maybe, 'cause they say like, can shoot two 10, and I - That's why they call it league because you bowl on the Because each week on tour, I'm bowling on a different condition. Not the same condition every week. We have Cheetah, one more. - Bear. Yeah. - [Derek] But it's not that is transformed bowling. It's also the balls themselves. - Hard rubber bowling balls Maybe mid 70's and then the Yellow Dot, the Columbia Yellow Dot, And then they came out with I won a lot of titles And then they come out with the reactive resin bowling balls. - [Derek] Reactive resin is with a more porous surface, which gives it more grip in the oil. It's the most popular for bowling balls today. Balls started out as perfect And when you go to a bowling alley, the house balls there are still just that. But when you drill holes in the ball, you take some weight out of one side. So to rebalance it, ball manufacturers added a small pancake weight But then ball manufacturers got the idea, they could add different to improve their performance. You can have two balls that weigh exactly the same amount, and yet roll differently. If the mass is more concentrated around the axis of rotation, say you have a dense Well then it has a And this means for the same it will spin faster. In bowling, they prefer to talk Radius of gyration or RG. If you were to concentrate onto a hoop with the it's radius would be So smaller radius of gyration just means lower moment of inertia, which translates into more rotation that a bowler can get on the ball. - Some people are lower leverage it just spins faster, like, eh, it's of crazy, and then somebody finally did a study on that. Yeah, it turns out, yeah, it's like 8%, you And so it depends on Can be fairly significant. - [Derek] An ability to gives a bowler the more sharply further down the lane, giving them a better chance of achieving that six degree entry angle. What was amazing for me to learn is that the weight blocks in these balls aren't even centered. There's a heavy side and and you can find and mark this side by letting the ball spin until it comes to rest, heavy side down. They showed me a great demonstration of how the position of can affect the movement of the ball. When the center of mass is it pulls in the same helping the ball hook to - Same exact ball, same numbers, just different static - [Derek] But here is where the center of mass is on the right. Now the ball starts to hook into the left, but at the end, something weird happens. The center of mass pulls This effect is only really noticeable when the ball is thrown slowly. These days, there are tons that go inside bowling balls and they can be grouped symmetric and asymmetric. For all these weight blocks, the minimum moment of inertia or in bowling terms, the smallest RG axis is identified by a pin, which is visible on the It will spin most easily about this axis. For the symmetric weight blocks. The ball doesn't change as So the maximum moment of inertia is rotating about any axis that passes through the equator of the ball. I certainly didn't expect bowling balls to have asymmetric cores, but it turns out what actually have three different Minimum moment of inertia, maximum moment of inertia and intermediate moment of inertia. - So this right here is our Dark Code. This is one of our asymmetric ball that has the Rad 4 core in it. So this has a preferred spin axis. And what we're going to do now is we're going to put and show how it actually no matter how we position it on there. - [Derek] So you spin until they settle into where the bowlers call their But why would you want a Well, professional so that at lunch the axis of the minimum and maximum moment of inertia. And as a result, as the ball it precesses like a gyroscope. The axis of rotation rotates around causing the point of contact between the ball and the lane to change. This precession means that different parts of the And you can see this when the ball back by the spread-out lines of Bowlers call this track flare, and it's desirable because it means once the ball hits the it gets traction faster and hooks more dramatically This is what asymmetric They have larger differences between their moments of or what bowlers call RG differential, which makes the ball precess. If you spin a ball around it's minimum or maximum moment of and there's much less flair, meaning oil builds up This reduces the friction so the ball hooks less. - See the oil there, very faintly, but it's pretty much next to the finger, right next to the thumb, and it just continues to be right that way all the way around the ball. - [Derek] But how important are each of these factors in Well, the US Bowling Congress, or USBC, the governing and regulations for US bowling. They did a landmark study in 2008, trying to tease out the that affect ball motion. In order to determine the they had to make sure that So they turned to Harry, at the time, the most He is a robot. Bowling robots are designed hundreds of identical shots. In fact, the robot Earl, Harry's successor in 2011, actually lost to Chris in part because his He wore away the oil in a So his shots hooked too much. The people managing him did their best to adjust but few people are Chris Barnes. The USBC ball motion study used Harry to throw thousands of shots with different bowling balls. And they found that the center of gravity affected the ball motion Around the same level like room temperature or humidity. RG, and RG differential, essentially the moment of inertia and difference between maximum and minimum moments of inertia. That affected the ball But the factor that affected was the surface of the ball. The top five individual factors were the amplitude of surface roughness, meaning the height of the coefficient of friction the surface roughness by spacing. That is the distance the coefficient of and how quickly the ball Now, bowlers recognize just how important the surface of their ball is. They pay close attention and how it's finished. Rougher finishes, give the ball more traction in the oil and get it to start hooking earlier. This is useful for long oil patterns and slower axis rotation. - Sometimes maybe I'll go or a little more ball surface to get it into a roll quicker for me, because they use a lot of oil. - These two shots are thrown identically. The only difference is has a rougher surface. Rough surfaces act like winter tires, helping to dig into the oil They also act as badly as on a totally dry lane. They actually have less friction because their rougher exteriors mean that less surface You can get many different up to a near mirror shine. This is better for short oil patterns to prevent the ball hooking Ultimately, pro bowlers to each competition. - I'm not afraid to change I go to the game and I've got like a spare, a spare, a spare. All right. It's time to change balls. - [Derek] Yeah. - So now I gotta find the right ball to get down the lane again which usually I have a pretty good idea. - [Derek] So they select their ball a little like a golfer selects their club, to suit the conditions. But does all this tech actually Well, over the last 20 years, average scores have increased Plus the number of perfect 300 games bowled per year per thousand bowlers has increased dramatically This graph shows the percent In 1976, soaker balls, balls chemically softened were banned, and there was But the same year a new the Brunswick LT-48 and more 300 were hit in In 1991, reactive resin and there was another significant jump. Now, obviously there were and natural variability, but some of the big changes do correlate with the introduction So yes, the wild bowling especially anything to do with surface, significantly affect ball But ball motion is by hundreds of other factors. Even the color of the ball A USBC study in 2016 found that different pigments Bowling is the sport of re-invention. That goes back to ancient Egypt, but has transformed many times. Now, when you get up you have to think about the the stage of the game and the weight block in your ball, whether you want symmetric or asymmetric, which axis you'll spin it where the center of mass is to pull the ball to what the cover stock is made of and whether it's rough or smooth, all to make a shot that to the pins between boards at as close to a six degree Now do that again 12 times in a row and you have a perfect game. (techno sound effect) Hey, this portion of the video Bowling may be complicated, but managing relationships doesn't have to be. In our modern work-from-anywhere world, Salesforce makes it to meet the needs of your customers. You can help them find by creating a help center page. You can also meet your by connecting your email, You probably spend a lot So make it work harder for you by leveraging lead capture right on your site. And you'll be able to and develop relationships straight from your CRM. Sending out messages or Salesforce has a whole and message targeting options. So you can request a demo or get started for just at salesforce.com/veritasium. I want to thank Salesforce for sponsoring this portion of the video, and I want to thank you for watching.