- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, Welcome back to Starbase Texas. This is of course, where Starship vehicles. This is part one of two parts, and part one, we're gonna see what's new, see the see star factory from the and just learn a lot along the way. So stay tuned for part two to the launchpad and we'll after the launch and see how it went. So without further ado, let's go on another tour with Elon Musk. Cool. So yeah, as we were a lot has changed in I mean, [It Has?] this all maybe in - Looks exactly the same. - But once was tents is now - Yeah. It used to be intense in tents, and now it's in a building. Yeah. Yeah. So we've got this, I think, pretty good looking that we've almost completed. Completed the exterior. This is, this will enable us of the rocket, especially the ship, which would ultimately be made, you know, long term probably be making So, thousand a year. Yeah. Well, you know, gotta - That's insane to think about. - Yeah, I don't, I mean, we right here, but I think this is, this is capable of a hundred a year. Really? Sure. Wow. It's - And that's nothing. And Well, it is funny 'cause now, you know, even Falcon 9 these days, you're producing a second Yeah. And a few years ago, you know, no one would've imagined Yeah. That they're building an upper - Stage. And this year we'll make almost - That's - Unbelievable. And - That's - That's a cadence of people just even, you can't even that kind of, you know Yeah. Output like that. That's - Just crazy. Well, Falcon 9 is, is So, you know, it's, there's roughly 40,000 pounds orbit. Yeah. So, which is in normal rocket Yeah. So now Starship's gonna be able to do a hundred tons maybe a little more than that at the 9 meter diameter, essentially, when the nine meter diameter to what ends up being from to probably 140 or something like that. Then it's lot, this is and improvement engine improvements, heatshield mass improvements, of propellant needed for landing, kind of basically do all the things with the Falcon 9. And you get to a pretty efficient vehicle. I think we'll be able to do over 200 tons to a useful orbit with Starship. That's insane. So, and that's a full reusability, Insane. So that's twice the Saturn V with full reusability and So it's the booster and the ship are coming back - Should we, should we take a look at, at what's going on in there? So, so as far as, you know, you know, you're talking about able to do less than a hundred, but is is version one really even gonna, I feel like version one in my head - Is just a, yeah. Version one is a, is just and really kind of Starship, we're version 1.6 / 7, I don't know. Right? Yeah. It's like we're, through on, on version one. Yeah. So, - And it's just like It's like a, it's a test It's just a, yeah. I don't and they don't understand that like, this is all still a - Yeah. One way to look at like, you, you're rendering an image in successive levels of detail. So the first layer of the image is very, very blurry and things are out of place. And then with the, with the next pass, it gets a bit more defined and things kind of shift into and another pass, and that is refined and, Right. But we're, we're in with Starship, so it's not like nobody's ever made a fully Right. And that's, that's really the, the critical breakthrough to become multi-planetary. For us to become a true to achieve full and rapid reusability. Yeah. So I call it rapidly - Reusable, RR squared or - Space There we go. - So, to remember is getting, achieving you guys have been getting Course. Reusing - It, solve, getting, I mean, solved in the, in the fifties, right. I mean, for, you know, so, so I mean, I really don't think there's another, an expendable rocket. Right. In my opinion. So, or at least I think the that it is, there is no point you have to achieve re reusability. We, we have reusability in we have it in bicycles. Horses, yeah. It's bizarre to not have reusability in any other form of transport boats. It would be insane to like chuck a boat away after every trip. Right. But this is how rockets have worked for the vast majority of time. In fact, SpaceX is still has any reusability with Falcon 9. Right. So with Falcon 9 We, we, we fly them frequently. We bring the fairings It's only the upper stage It doesn't, Falcon 9 does not Right. Because the, the most of the time the booster is landing on a ship in the ocean. Right. - So it takes a few days Oh, that's speeding up like crazy. I mean, the cadence out of - Yeah. We're trying to of a knot that we can out of - So seems that way. - Yeah. We're, I mean, we're ships streamlining, streamlining them, increasing the power on so we could just haul ass - Well, yeah. I think you just just last week. There was a, I mean, I don't remember the time, but it was something like two days or something. Yeah. From, from catching back and then out to catch again It used to take so much longer. And yeah. Those are all those little things that people just aren't that are continually improving and Yeah. - No, the SpaceX Falcon of achieving fast turnaround reusability given the architecture. Yeah. Now that's, that's still, however, a couple days and then, you know, at least for flight is still not rapid by aircraft or, you know, vehicle, you know, and, and like, take cars, boats, planes. Right. You know, doing a trip every four Cut it in a car. Right, So with, with Starship, to the launch site is caught or, you know, this would To see giant mechazilla arms catching And, and then those, those arms put it back on the launch site. So you can have the booster well it's gonna come, it's gonna come back and land in like five or six minutes. Right. So, so then you can probably get well if you really push it, launch site in 10 minutes. Right. Or even five minutes. And then you can fill it up in half an hour. So you could, you could be from the booster standpoint, and then if you've got ships lined up, you can drop another ship on, you know, fill it with propellant. And in theory you could be Yeah. - It's hard to imagine now, but it was hard to imagine You know, 10 years ago no one would've imagined what Falcon 9 is doing now. So I I think time will you can just keep little improvements. And so do you think you'll actually - Fly? Yeah, Falcon 9 used to be in months, then weeks, but for Falcon 9, the You really can't compress it Right. When you take and then the necessary That is required. So we'll take it from days to hours. Wow. Do you think? And yeah. And then, yeah, so then around the earth and, or orbit it has, it's that comes back over the launch site. Right. So that could take the ship could take, sometimes half a day or something like that to come back to re-align. Yeah. Yeah. So you'd, you'd want to have a lot more ships than boosters. Yeah. So if you're really you probably want roughly, to for every booster. For every booster. - Yeah. And that's what you massive cadence here of, of Yeah. Now do you think, - Well, I mean, yeah, it's, what it will be like very slow. But we're also iterating the design. So like each one is a little a lot different from the last one. Yeah. - Are any of these, what, are any of these gonna be the V2 yet? Are we starting to get close Yeah, - Just this, the, the stretch Well, I guess it depends or don't call it V2. The slightly stretched That, so you can see, you know, what we have here is a Starship the heat shield side and Yep. It's got the, what for tossing out the next satellites, the, the V3 satellites. So those will be very wide I dunno, seven meter Yeah. So, you know, 22 feet So, - So are these actually gonna after, let's say this do you think the next one's and start deploying test, like testing out as trying to deploy Starlink? Or are we, where do you think Like is that maybe a to start actually deploying - We'll see how this mission goes. I mean, this, this year is not, not about delivering It's all about ironing out the, the, the design question marks. So the, I mean the major for Starship, the biggest, the, the, the single biggest one is through the high heating of reentry? So you can see the, the heat We have some uh, well, let's say that un unsolved questions Yeah. On the heat shield. Yeah. A bunch of which we don't even know And, and, and some we're aware of because there've been with space shuttle Yeah. The, the sort of the hinge And sealing that hinge gap and not having hot gas just through the, through the interface there. Yeah. Through well at, at 'cause if, if, if you get hot that that'll cook anything Yeah. Including the tiles. So, so you've, you've got a hot gas and rear flap hinge. And so, you know, one of the key questions Right. We think it'll Then there are some, you how well do the tiles stay on. Right. There's a, there's a where the tiles are ceramics, they're like a, like a coffee cup Right. Or a dinner plate. Yeah. So you've got essentially a whole bunch of dinner plates stuck to a steel surface. The steel surface is 'cause of the propellants, Yeah. So on ascent, the, the rocket is shrinking, it has shrunk. Yep. So you got, you can't have the gaps and the tiles be too tight or they will just shatter Yeah. Yeah. The gap Then when it's coming in for the, you no longer have the tanks and the shuttles get, Yep. So now they, they So you've got a contracted inner surface and expanding tiles. Oh, geez. Yeah. Right. So, and, and the thing is like, you can't, you can't have a big tile gap because then the plasma will get in there and melt the primary structure behind it. Exactly. Exactly. So like what's the, what's the right tile gap? And that's gonna vary depending on the rocket on the ship. Yeah. You know, so it's, of the ship have cryogenic Yeah. There's also the, how if we attach them and they, But it's hard to see then Right. And we currently think we're, we're probably not resilient of a tile in the hot sections of the, of the ship that are the, the tank portion. So that the, so if if - The pressurized The pressurized areas. Exactly. So, and, and so technically the nose So if the, if the and then you melt that area, Right. Right. So the So now people have asked like, why are there some missing - Ship? Well, like right now, flight four, you got I think three tiles - So those are in the which is un pressurized region. Yeah. Yeah. So that's an where we think we can see, well you can, you can have a melt through and it will not cause Yeah. Yeah. Like you might have a little hole there or something. Right. But it's not gonna pop the vehicle. - Right. So that's, as like an A:B test almost what happens if we're missing - Tile. Yeah. What happens if Now we, we do have plans beneath the tiles that is much better than what we have right now. So right now we, and some of the site can't say the details of it because it's like ITAR Right. But the current material we use, we think is not resilient We have a new design that we think is resilient - So behind the underlying structure. - Yeah. And essentially it's got ablative. So if you do, if you lose the give your backup up the ablative. Right, right, right. So you, you'd, you'd lose out on reusability because of the lost tile - But you have a, but - And you'd recover it, And get it back out on the - Cool. And especially for carrying you know, expect Starship to carry it maybe a hundred people at a time to Mars. Right. And also to the moon. Yeah. Then, you know, it's It's gotta have no, no, ideally no single point of failure. Right. - So have you given up, I a long time ago, you're talking about or active regen and stuff. Did that just kind of - I, - The mass trade that we like it's four years ago Yeah, maybe five. It, it seemed like at that as heavy as a, a ceramic heat shield. Now since then, the weight of our ceramic heat shield has grown. Yeah. And then when you factor that's additional mass. Right. So, I don't know, of a difference between actively cooling a heat shield and, - Have you seen what, what working on where they have a, it's of course a aerospike's gonna 'cause for some reason Aerospike comes out every time But it's a aerospike, but the base plug is actually And so as it, and it's expander through the atmosphere, it's they're using hydrogen to, to and cool the heat shield and the nozzles basically as And that actually also gets some of the gaskets vented So you also have like a, a of gaseous helium or hydrogen And it's being actively regen. I think it's, it's a and I was really impressed. It's a, it's, it made me you know, active regen in a different way. And I thought that was pretty talked about the transpirational I didn't know if Yeah, - I think it's probably correct that that, that a ceramic heat shield is gonna do better than transpiration. There's also the question of to Mars and you're coming in or you and you're coming back If you come back from, from Mars to earth, you're coming in very hot. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's not clear where the transpiration there. It came up there. Yeah. - Your here's my wacky dumb of the tank, if you had you have like a fire hose just spray if there's a Spray it down from the inside. I don't know, I'll just, to throw out the dumb the dumb ideas. Especially when you have that are filled with, with to go, you know, all one heat shield tile missing potentially and could have a Yeah. A bad day. You know, - There's a lot of ways Yeah. So the, I mean, what matters is that it is solved. Yeah. Even though like, yeah, there are, there are many ways to What matters is that, is it is achieved. - Yeah. A hundred once you're in the sort of over where the one system is slightly secondary concern, right? - Yeah. It's tomato, tomato Should we keep moving along here? Yeah. So when, with flight three, that was mostly just because obviously it couldn't maintain orientation, so it didn't - Having the heatshield. Oh yeah. You would've there was a lot of like fire Just not, you know, that's not - Right. Definitely not when the - Engines aren't on. - Yeah. - So this is, you we we're try to get the as possible, but we to do on the interior of the factory. But this will dramatically improve the production of the rocket Yeah. As being able to move from which is a linear adjacent flow. - Hmm. I don't, I mean, I assume, I don't really know what that means, but, - Well, I mean, the, the you know, people talk about of sort of Henry Ford and the automobiles. What actually matters is to a production line that moves - Hmm. So, so - The, so it's, it's simple. - Okay. one step leads to another Yeah. And it just, and things move Yeah. Yep. - And you don't have to have the physical, - It doesn't matter whether or not got, it's the secondary concern. - That's the second. Yeah. Got It just matters that, that, Yeah. So every station amount of work time. Right. And things move from and the specialization Yes. Okay. So these are the - And that's what you guys kind of solved by doing the tents first. 'cause you could just how things were actually falling, see what order things were going in. But - The tents were very inefficient once you know what you wanna build. Yes. - Yep. Yeah. So it was of don't get too far along - Yeah. You don't know what Like it's simple to convey you know, this, this is, you what the rocket would look like. - Yeah. Yeah. - And in, in some senses you still don't necessarily know it's still changing - At this point. We at this point we're confident of that this architecture of the solutions. Yeah. Let's not say there the one you talked about, Yeah. It's just a question and improving the performance to the avionics to the primary structure, Yeah. And that's, but it will work. Yeah. I think I was mentioning, or I was beginning to say that the, the, so the most important, the a reusable orbital heat shield. So there's never, nobody's ever made it So the space shuttle is the closest. Yeah. But that took I think and thousands of people to refurbish. Right. So it's difficult to call when can, can I call something that as truly re reusable? Yeah. Certainly not rapid. Yeah. So for the first time a rapidly reusable orbital heat shield, which no one has ever done. So it's a hard problem. Right. So that's why I'd say biggest remaining problem. And the, the, the goal of this flight, and really the flights the, for through the high heating. So the, the heat shield survives. Yep. And, and then, and, and the, and is able to steer and do a landing burn Yep. In the ocean. Yes. And, and then the, the booster, for this flight to come back and do a landing boom Yep. So do we know, how - Far out is that gonna be? Do you - Know? It's pretty far out. I mean, we're, but, but I think we're pretty close to that. If we don't solve it on this flight, I think we'll solve it in, in So just having this, the, do the hot staging come back, steer, steer correctly and And do a landing burn and then, and, and, and essentially do a - Like, so will the tower actually - No. It's just a Okay. It, it, the Not trying to get caught - At least the, I thought it tower mimicked it, you Because I even wonder like how do we know the tower's gonna be okay? You know, like after a launch like that to be able to Well we, - We can, we, we operate the tower after the launch so we can Yeah. But yeah, if, if, if this launch goes we'll we'll have the, the, and a, a controlled aero to a specific location. Yes. Initiate landing, burn and be caught by an imaginary tower. Yep. Yep. And then the ship, which probably won't, it'll it will still be fully operational. It will control itself and in the ocean, and then and also pretend as to Wow. Now I think it, it, I think we've got maybe a 50 50 chance of the heat shield working. I mean - That's decent. - Yeah. Yeah. Like it's a but like roughly 50 50. But if not on this flight, or three flights, I, I think - Well, and you guys, let's, You guys did make a to hopefully ensure Like you added some new roll thrusters. - Oh - Well, yeah. - What, what happened there because they got clogged it sounds like. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Don't the old conversation we had of hot gas thrusters and all that stuff. Or was it, but still, I, - They, they, they got ice, - Okay. In the valves. Not necessarily, or in the, - They, they got clogged by Yeah. But, but if water, the oxygen side, there's a small amount. So since we're the location that we're tapping off the it's got a little bit of a water ice. - Why - Is that? It's, it's, - It is ox. So is it Like exhaust or the Yeah. So wouldn't it have, - Wouldn't even have a little but it's Yeah, no, it's, - Yes. Wouldn't it have a little And can that turn into an ice? Do you freeze CO2 with that temperature? 'cause I think, yeah, - Well anyway, it's, it's, that can turn solid at cryogenic that's relevant, right. So - Yeah. Ice, whether it be water, ice or Yeah. Or CO2 ice or whatever. Ice, ice. - Yeah. And it's solid stuff - Blocks things. - Blocks things. So we do, we we we've improved the sort of ice strainers or the ice catchers. Yeah. We improve the valves. And something I think we'll for critical valves, So any one valve failure does does not take out the ability of the ship to orient itself correctly. - So are you avoiding doing like a more of a traditional heat You know, like, like I think where it has a heat exchangers to heat up to be able to ride stuff. The helium. Yeah. I'm just curious. I've never heard of an engine to be able to be the of the, off the preburner. That's pretty unusual I - Yeah. Well we're, our rocket is autogenously pressurized. Yeah. So we're pressurizing the Yep. And the oxide with And yeah. Now in the case of we have to create the gas. We're not merely warming up a gas. We have to produce the gas. - Oh, interesting. Is that how 'cause the shuttle ran autogenous pressurization on - The, on the hydrogen side. Yeah. I think that it, I, - Well I guess I don't - Was it on both? I I think it was at least So maybe on both. But when, when you, when you you've gotta produce the gas. You're not just heat it up. Okay. So there's a lot more mass - Literally. It actually affects our max power on the, especially on the fuel side. So the fuel pump has to to work harder, but the fuel pump especially is a limiting factor. Like if we turned off autogenous side, we'd actually be able to get more power out of the fuel pump. - Oh yeah. 'cause you're - Yeah. You've gotta, you've you're, you're bleeding mass flow right. From the, you know, from the Yeah. You're, and yeah, I mean there's, in taking a cryogenic liquid and heating it up to be a hot gas. Right. So you're a phase and that big temperature delta. Yeah. So it's actually a, a lot of work to produce the hot gas - That's crazy. So is that of step in here and see This is crazy. Is that what also was the blockage of the LOx tank on the booster too then? Similar ice buildup, blockage? The Raptors were shutting Backburn had an ice buildup. - Sorry, it's hard to hear you. - Yeah. Is that what to shut down on flight three Was it a similar type of thing? Like an autogenous pressurization issue that clogged a few of the engines? - Yeah. We didn't have enough - Okay. - So we're low low the full answer is quite complicated. But because arguably we with lower pressure or we, we didn't need to start all the engines anyways. This, this time we expect and we are able to start at lower pressure and we don't need to have Okay, cool. You know, hopefully. Yeah. So, - Geez, this is crazy. Wow. The scale is just almost impossible to to imagine. And - Yeah, three, three boosters. - Wow. That's just insane. This looks so cool. - Dang. - Yeah. It's an insane amount of engines. I mean, right here we're Engines for these three vehicles. - Nine, nine Raptors on a wall. - 99 engines and a ship ain't one. Yeah. That's absolutely insane. The scale of these things, it's just hard to, hard to fathom. Wow. So are you guys to three grid fins, is that right? From the, from the four Is that - It's sort of high priority. It's a, it's a mass you definitely only need three. Yeah. And I think technically if you're willing to oscillate - Yeah. Like turn for yard, then road - That's definitely, you of trouble if you just have two grid fins. Right. But it is The three three for sure. But that's, that's like optimization, right. - With the, the, the cowbell the ullage gas thrusters or whatever. I need to clear something up for myself because I'm getting confused. So cold gas thruster, we'd say like, would be like a nitrogen thruster where it's just literally compressed nitrogen goes out of an nozzle. - Cold gas is room temperature gas usually - Is room temperature. And then are we, would we consider that almost like a warm gas - Thruster? Yeah. Warm gas thruster. - And then like a hot gas Probably like a bi a bi - For both the booster and the ship. You don't really need much control. The attitude control needed is, is small. So you just can't have a leaky valve or a stuck valve [or a stuck Valve]. - Yeah. That seems, I I, - Falcon 9s, is all cold gas. - What is And we've done, I think six starts. So it's, it's, it's cold gas that has been maintaining propellant settling and attitude control for, - Yeah. So, and you So that's, I don't know why that's still a hard one for me to fathom. Even though we've talked, - Now its got a lot of hot - Especially when it's empty. It's, it's all warm, warm gas. Yes. - The, the delta delta So it's very tiny So yeah. - So how much do you feel like after you fly, how much is to change all of these? Like is it, is it literally and then you're literally to make changes on all these things? Like everything that's - You're just learning lessons. learning changes that actually take place. Not a few, yeah. Hundreds. If you go to a detail level, there might be thousands - Especially when you get - Software for sure. I'm just taking a, talking If you're just, look, the and the, the booster and the engines, it's thousands of changes between each flight. But many of them are very small. But a very small change - Imagine how long it'd take a that had a, a rocket they're working on to make a thousand changes between flights and then fly it two months later. I mean that's, that's This is, you're barely over and the vehicle's had - Easily. Over a thousand, several thousand probably. So that's insane. - Like - You said, a bunch but say like, is it have a, an effect on the rocket? Yeah. Yeah. That's - And do you feel like for now, of overbuilding them to just of being able to prove the heat and then eventually you're work on - Mass? Yeah. We're, we're trying that I mentioned. The biggest question being to get through max heating? Yep. With a reusable heat to have the booster come back and be caught by the, the tower Yep. And have the, the ship also come back and be caught by the tower. Yeah. So those are the three very big things that need to happen. - And that's in your mind including like flight 1, 2, 3, you're, those are the questions. Like those flights are just - Full reusability. - See I think people just you're not looking at and launch a satellite tomorrow. You're trying to answer the - Questions. The payload, the payload for data is data just to learn things. So it's, it's design refinement what, what works, what doesn't work. Yeah. You know, some things Which can throw you off but doesn't work again of factors isn't the same. Yep. So, so you want to have, so the first things you'll find of design where success was not one of the possible outcomes. Yep. Then in some cases it's success is sometimes possible. Possible, right? Yeah. But once in a while you, you blow yourself up. Yeah. Yeah. So that's gonna to figure out those like the one in a hundred Yeah. There'll be a whole - Well, kind of even like the close to landing 9 was 10 was better, 11 was worse. Like there's a little bit of a of being tried and tested. And you're still kind of in that phase. Even even at this scale. I just don't think people - Yeah. I mean a lot, a lot of were also just about us stainless steel Right. As the primary, primary And working with liquid methane. Right. And with a, a full flow stage As the, as the engine. Yeah. So a lot of what people saw you know, did it land or not land, but we're just trying to with steel Right. And how do we work with a - Engine architecture totally new engine architecture - And new flaps. Like - Do the flaps - Yeah. You have to actuate the flaps. You need, you need very powerful Yeah. 'cause there are a airplane moving its wings. - Right, right. So - These are very powerful - Yeah, absolutely. - So, you know, and all of the, the the, to vehicle interactions Yeah. So, but you, you don't really see those when you're firing the you don't get the engine And then you've got different Right. Engines vehicle interactions in flight than you do on the ground. - Yeah. Oh a hundred. orientation of a vehicle. Yeah. And different G-Force - There, there's no test a rocket at 17,000 miles In, you know, every Exactly. It's not, it's not possible. Yep. - So you have to fly it. - Yeah. You, you do as much then you gotta fly it, try to figure things out in simulation. But a lot of things are not gonna be included in the simulation. So it'll work in some, but not in reality. - Exactly. It's crazy. - Yeah, - Are you over here that way? Yes sir. We are just about to de-rig from the crane and then - Right on. - Geez. - Wow. - As you can see, the Raptor is a lot cleaner than it used to be. It looks like this less stuff, but Yeah. - That - Yeah. we're not to V3 here yet, right? No, - No. - Is the V3 the same thing as like the Leet (733T) engine? - Sort of the LEET engine that at some point, but that's like a, that's really a total tear up. Really. Yeah. Yeah. It looks like the LEET engine, because it still has So, but the, yeah, the next gen Raptor engine - Right. - And because it's exposed, So there's integral the, all the parts. So it looks very simple on the outside, but it's complicated on the - Inside. Like even all throughout the, like the preburner and the Yeah. Gas manifolds and everything. It's all, - All that stuff you see - Wow. that's being worked on now - Yeah. We have a design, we have a It, it, it, it looks like - Well yeah, you had that, that presentation it just like a, it looks - Like it's missing - But it's actually just and integral cooling are So if you have a you run the secondary cooling circuit or, or secondary flow circuit Right. And we also eliminate and welded joints. So especially the bolted joints, you really wanna - Yeah. - You know, and seals of hell, So Yeah. The, the next gen Raptor engine is actually a little difficult to service because there are parts that are, that don't have a flange anymore, it's just welded shut. Right, - Right, right. Yeah. So you're just hoping to to be so reliable, hopefully that Yeah, you just don't need a service - Result. You need to change the part, you need to literally cut it open. - Wow. So you'll probably, as well just like swap out the whole engine, I assume and just ah, - No, we cut it open. Yeah, - Yeah, - Alright. It's just crazy. Yeah. - I mean there's a massive, for the hot gas manifold that's the . Hot, hot from the fuel pump - Three, 'cause it's up in the air, but the thing that joins the, the, the, the - Fuel the ox. Yeah. The fuel to - Pump to the ox The kind of band looking thing. - Right. Yeah. The band that has a, a mon, a monster Mm. And you want to get rid of those two - And that has to hold a lot of pressure. - Hot. That's a whole lot of - Geez. there's a lot of flanges here. I mean this valve is like, well of flanges Wow. Flange, flange flange, flange flange - And are, and like, beast beast level flanges - And these are all there. So there is no like, active or the current version of - Current version. Does not have, there's, there technically is some, but there's not, the current version of raptor does not have resist being in the, in hot gas plasma. Hot plasma. Yeah. It's not, yeah, it - Would melt. That's why I need, that's still - Then. Yeah. That's why it's, But next gen, a bunch of the flanges you see here will disappear and it will have integral cooling and integral secondary flow circuits. Yeah. - Yeah. Do you guys look, - There's a whole bunch of engines down there pretty densely packed. It's a lot of thrust. - It's a lot of thrust. It is crazy. It looks like a, when you go or something just, yeah, that's insane. - Each one of these is the most advanced rocket engine ever made - And they're just being - Yeah. Super high pressure, high efficiency you've got a full flow stage. Combustion all the good. - Is there, is there ever been you know, with aircraft like some kind of cooling on Is there any way to do any kind of cooling on the turbine blades and, - And Raptor, we've, we've had We probably head back into the, and see the main factory. - Geez. I just can't believe You have two mega bays. I mean, last time I was out and it's neither nothing had doors. Now you have doors. That's a pretty good creature comfort. It is turning into a real Well this is a real factor - So It's hard to keep up - Yeah. So this is a, we'll for Starship, not just making it in tents. Yeah. So long term we of Raptor up to around maybe 335 metric tons. So that'll take us to a 10,000 - That's absolutely absurd. Yeah. It's absurd. Like beyond absurd. That's coming up on three times the amount of powers of Saturn V. - That's, yeah, that'd So Saturn five. Yeah, - That's what you need. Like - 22 million pounds of thrust Saturn five - My gosh. - So Well, and I think, you know, why aren't we, aren't people you know, the Saturn V being built in the, you know, in the - Sixties, Saturn V is - Yes. And it's insanely - Yeah. And it was, it was expendable. So yeah, Starship is in a, I mean, just any rocket which no one has achieved because Not because they didn't think about - Reusability. Right. Right. - So it was just too hard. So, and obviously we haven't You know, we, we've gotta, achieve it by next year. So, but at least, at where we have a design where success is one of Yeah. So no, no prior design where success is one of the possible outcomes for full reusability. - Well, and if you think for some reason just were We have to launch 300 You could absolutely, you could. You could expend a rocket if you like. Absolutely had to for some reason. Yeah. - It be pointless. But like you have that capability Oh yeah. Since this added five. - Well, I mean generally if you can do double that expendable. Right. - 400 tons. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even to the point let's say you had to do, you know, HLS or something to try to and you know, if orbital - No orbital re refilling, I before they hatch, but, or just docking with ourselves. Yeah. We dock with the space A space station is way harder - And but will it be all docking Is that kinda the plan? It depends on how - Quickly you wanna launch. So if you, if you're gonna I don't think you need a de depot. I think you just send a ship up and send tankers immediately. Yeah. And your boil off rate So you now for the moon, earth orbit to moon system because you don't need a heat shield. Right. Well I need a heat Well, prob probably actually. Yeah. The, the moon's like harder than it seems because it doesn't have an atmosphere. Right. So you can't use the - But if you have time have anyway. It's like yeah, for landing on the moon, obviously you don't need and you need very little thrust. Right. But you do need pretty big landing legs. So in case you one leg lands on a boulder and one lands on a crater. Absolutely. And you don't wanna tip over. - Right. So Because that's a, you know, I of people understand that lander with the Apollo I mean I don't even know how heavy HLS is gonna be when it, when it lands. It's gonna be at, you know, and or wait Yeah. At least 10 times that massive and acres of volume compared to anything that was landed during the Apollo program. And I just think that people how, how big Starship will be on the moon. It's basically a habitat when it's not just a little tiny Yeah. - Yeah. I mean I think beyond Apollo and have a permanently occupied base on the moon. Yeah. Like Moon base alpha, So you don't wanna just for a few hours who wanna have Right. - This factory's huge. Yeah. This, and I guarantee we just up and running like - I mean it'll be, this will be filled with equipment in three months. - Geez. So is there a decent that's like, is there and tools that are coming here just mostly production rate or what's that kinda like? - I mean, you can build any slowly with, you know, by having to the same station, but in you've gotta move from one you have the same amount Right. So this is meant So you'll see a lot of work in Yeah. And you'll be able to where the, where the blockages are - And make changes to it then. Yeah. - Geez. know we were only five years and all you had was a tent and Stargate was the That little Stargate thing. Yeah. And now you, I almost missed it trying to pull into Stargate today 'cause - It looks like a little hut. - Yeah. It's like dwarfed by absolutely everything Yeah. It's just crazy. - Air conditioning. I thought that was the main thing. - Yeah. Geez. It was more - Holy crap. So this is more of a, a real factory here. This is what the other side will - Look like. Yeah. The other side will look like this. You know, there were, we're tile to make sure it's not - How are you feeling about the, the way they're actually secured on there? Like the, the mounting point? Is that - Decent? We're continuing to iterate - I always, I 99% of the time it works well. So it's just a question of have issues with cause or some other problem. - I always keep thinking the, that you can't access the, You can't access it Like there's not a bolt you can screw on because you have, it's a snap-on. It's a, it has to be a snap-on. Yeah. Have you ever seen the where like you have two and then you spin a magnet on one end? Oh yeah. And it spins the nut on. I've always wondered like if - I mean this is basically, it snaps on and you pretty much have to - Really? Yeah. - Yeah. And we still see, that aren't tapered up, you we still see some, some horizontal seams. What's the, what's the I know that was like pretty bad. - No, they, they don't They're just different So now this is somewhat of a debate. You could wait until the whole and then put the attachment So currently we put the tile attachment points on in sections. Okay. So that's why you've got a line, the - Horizontal line. Okay. Yeah. It's probably once it's all manufactured, to put all the attachment points on. Is that kind of the problem - There? There's more one way to skin a cat. This is just a cat getting skinned. Yeah, - Yeah. - Yeah. It's not, it's not to say that there is not a better way to do it. Yeah. There are. The first order of business is to get one way at all That works. Yep. Thereafter to optimize. Yep. - Hmm. - Watch your step here. of work that we gotta do here. - Oh, that's cool looking. That's, is that the, the - It's the header tank. - Header tank there. That's insane. Geez. And then are those COPVs propped up against it like that then? Is that what those Yeah. Geez. - Gotta pressurize the head attack with something when the engine's not on. - Exactly. Wow. So the, like the Pez door that, do you think or is there still gonna be like a chomp or someday? Or is it - Well, for the Starlink satellites, they're pretty flat. So - The chomper makes sense. - There's no point in having you know, flat little, Right. - What did the, the door test one, or, because I think anything with it had some issues. Yeah. It's pretty rudimentary - Yeah. But it's, well of really quite sophisticated On a sandbar by the It's like an alien - Seriously. So these are, Yeah. Is that what these are - Little, little old jet packs. This will take the detailed stuff of the, that might run a foul and ITAR stuff - Deal. - Yeah. I mean, I don't know if, if anyone is gonna copy us, that would be, that's a hard thing to copy. - It's come a long way since three tents. Yeah, it sure has. I mean, There's no mud and dust. It's better when - It's has doors on it. Yeah. - I mean, everything used And birds and things. - There's only some finite mud and dust, but it's much smaller - Than, it's a long ways from Yeah. Yeah. I mean the MK1 thing, it looked like the junk yard at Tatooine - Which was charming. Yeah. - It was a lot of dust - Yeah. I mean, MK1 was conceptual Concept, I'd say concept art. It was - Part of the journey. Absolutely. Yeah. So James pointed out that the, this actually wraps like all of that's still back there. There's more to it. That's the dome line. Dome line and the coils. That's the starting line's - Yeah. So we do have an around the one you just saw. So that's, that's where we make the, the ship and the booster. So then - That will open up and you'll start Yeah. Serpentining it basically through there. - Yeah. Look that we'll That is, once we have the we will take down that wall and then you'll just have factory. We'll just kind of go as - It's so much bigger than I mean, it looks big from the road, but it's insane. Yeah, it's - Ridiculous. And obviously the, the, the as, as you go south, right? So that's why things and then get taller as you go along - Even. Yeah. Even the roof line does that, right? - Yeah. It's gonna get bigger - That's absolutely crazy. Are you guys still using, back in the day there's a lot of like Tesla motors being used. Oh, ac actually you said that So there's a lot of Tesla motors to, for the fins and all that kinda stuff. And maybe even the grid Model S motor or something. Are you still kind of using - Yeah, we just use the Tesla drive units to actuate the grid fins - And, and the big flaps still too. The on ship. - Yes. Sorry. Two. Yes. Essentially. Sorry, I was just thinking Yeah, the, the, the - Hey, - The, yeah. We use the, we're we're We're trying, it's all So the engine is also gambled electrically. - Yep. So you're really moving away from hydraulics wherever, possibly. Really? - Yeah. There's almost, I think there's actually no I, if there's hydraulics huh. But I think there's none. - That's wild. Actually. I - Yeah, there's pneumatics, A lot for all the valves and That's crazy. - Geez. Yeah, it was surreal just It just keeps going and going. That is - Crazy. Yeah. From one little tent. Yeah. - This is starting to make Hawthorne look tiny. And Hawthorne's a, - A big, well, Hawthorne's Cool. Absolutely crazy. - That's Meme Street. Is that, is that what it says now? - That's what, that's what it's called. - All right. I think we're - But if you look at the street sign - We got Meme Street. Yeah. It's - Literally called Meme Street. It's, that is its official And we changed it from Wemes to Memes. - The important things. Was that incredible or what? Huge Thank you to especially and, and following up and, and just teaching us so and, and showing us the inside. Huge thanks. Amazing. And I also owe a huge thank especially those over on Patreon. If you wanna support the to patreon.com/everydayastronaut, and now is a great time to be a supporter because we already have So again, patreon.com/everydayastronaut to catch part two right now. But even if you're not a supporter, fear not part two is coming So be sure you're subscribed And while you're waiting a good free way to support the channels to that you might have missed, or deep dives on So click around, watch a few. It truly helps the channel out. And while you're online, be sure and check out our awesome merch our new orbital shirt and lots of other incredible things over everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody. That's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday to earth for everyday people.