Do We Misunderstand the Buddha? 14 Questions the Buddha Refused to Answer Not only those outside the tradition misunderstand, harbor misunderstandings. Even during the Buddha's time, there were misinterpreting the Buddha's teachings on of the body to the extent that they went on Thus, occasionally in the scriptures, we hear I did not teach that, I did not advocate for It is natural for Western scholars to misunderstand We misunderstand the Buddha, then convey his among future generations. Many people mistakenly believe Nirvana to However, Nirvana represents the supreme happiness It is a happiness that we can experience here freedom from concepts. Chapter 1. The Buddha Attained Enlightenment on the Mind, Science and the Buddha share a common purpose However, science, with its understanding based assumed that reality is the material world. It is influenced by the understanding of suffering, and the path to the cessation of suffering external world. Specifically, suffering, its cause, and its Naturally, the path to ending suffering is Because of this understanding, science endeavors world, conditions, and living circumstances, REALITY IS SENSATION Contrarily, the Buddha, through observing the six sense bases and the six sense objects, and not Objects, based on the principle of Therefore, He attained enlightenment about He realized the Four Noble Truths as truths cessation of suffering, and the path leading Path) pertaining to the Mind, not to the Objects, Thus, the path to ending suffering is about as understood by science. Therefore, the Dharma that the Buddha realized changing the Mind, not about exploring and For someone who has attained enlightenment, the Dharma as preached by the Buddha, having all necessary actions are completed, there their realization with those who are destined, For them, whether the universe is square or finite or infinite, the origin of humans and are no longer concerns to explore. Later Buddhist schools failed to grasp the Mind, not about the world. Due to their ignorance and understanding based they attributed to the Buddha enlightenment Therefore, their commentaries, interpretations, whether relative or absolute, attributing Many people, even the majority of Buddhists, about the Mind, mistakenly believe that the validate the Buddha's &quot;pre-scientific&quot; understanding Chapter 2. Fourteen Questions Not to Answer There was a disciple of the Buddha named Malunkyaputta the future, and humanity, questions of a metaphysical Will the world exist forever, or will it one Does the world have a boundary, or is it boundless, The Buddha typically did not answer these upset and stated: If the Buddha does not answer my questions, The Buddha called Malunkyaputta and asked: Did I promise you when you took ordination No, the World-Honored One did not promise Then why do you say that you will cease your The Buddha then told the story of a man who When a doctor was called to treat him, the know the name of the person who shot me, why against me or my family? I want to know all these details before I The doctor said, "If you spend your time will die from the poison before all your questions The Buddha taught: Each of us has our own sufferings and pains. If we only wish to ask such questions, then Therefore, I only teach what is beneficial, and pains. REALM OF IS AND IS NOT The Buddha's teaching is practical in nature. The World-Honored One taught only about suffering Although he could answer the metaphysical they were not beneficial for practitioners. Furthermore, there are questions that cannot One did not know the answer, but because those framework of is and is not. Once, when the Buddha was in Kosambi, after simsapa leaves in his hand and asked the monks: Monks, are the leaves in my hand more or less The monks replied: Blessed One, the leaves in the forest are The World-Honored One said: Just so, what I know is like the leaves in like the leaves in my hand. Why? Because what I teach is crucial for your transformation The things that do not aid in your transformation This story illustrates the Buddha's teaching's We must devote our time to transformation However, people, including kings, officials, asking metaphysical questions. There are altogether 14 unanswerable questions, The world is: - Impermanent? - Both permanent and impermanent? - Neither permanent nor impermanent? The Buddha did not answer the aforementioned four given would be incorrect. These four propositions are known as the tetralemma, known as transcending the fourfold negation. - Finite? - Infinite? - Both finite and infinite? - Neither finite nor infinite? - The Buddha also did not answer these four meaning they are not declared or specified. The state of the Tathagata (the Buddha) after - Exists? - Does not exist? - Both exists and does not exist? - Neither exists nor does not exist? These questions fall into the same category from answering them to avoid engaging in speculative suffering, the ultimate goal of his teachings. The soul and the body: - Are they one? - Are they two? Louis de La Vallee Poussin, a renowned Belgian in Chinese, Sanskrit, and Pali, made significant 19th and early 20th centuries. He taught at the Institut Catholique Paris, Abhidharmakosa-sastra and Xuanzang's Cheng of Consciousness Only), and raised critical Cycle of Karma and Rebirth: La Vallee Poussin noted the Buddha did not rebirth. Without a self (atman) or ego (atma), who While the concept of reincarnation and karmic due to the belief in an eternal soul (atma) of non-self (anatta) complicates this understanding. How can karma, its retribution, and the cycle Who is the doer of actions and the experiencer These concerns are highlighted in his last (The Dogma and Philosophy of Buddhism), indicating despite his extensive studies and translations. Nature of the Soul: The Buddha did not clearly define the nature soul). Who or what undergoes the cycle of rebirth? Nirvana: La Vallee Poussin questioned whether Nirvana and how one reaches it. The clarity regarding the nature of Nirvana believed the Buddha provided clear teachings We also need to understand the questions posed who study Buddhism later. The sutras mention two kinds of non-self: Personal Non-Self (anatta or nairatmya in Sanskrit). Upon closer examination, within us, there indefinitely. The self is defined as something permanent If we analyze a person, we find five aggregates: and consciousness. All five aggregates are impermanent and change Nothing is unchanged, from physical form to These five streams are always changing, nothing Therefore, there is no self beyond these five Dharma Non-Self or the river, we also don't find anything Thus, there is no self in beings, nor is there Impermanence is the starting point; everything All phenomena are subject to momentary arising moment, like frames in a film. Many people feel negativity towards impermanence, there would be no life. It is because of impermanence that life exists. If there was a button to stop the world, everything Similarly, during a movie projection, if we screen halt. Life exists thanks to impermanence. Without it, a corn seed would forever remain for us to harvest and eat. If things were not impermanent, a baby would If everything were permanent, sickness would Impermanence is wonderful, but why do we feel In truth, impermanence is the foundation of Therefore, to say that impermanence is suffering The sutras often repeat the Buddha's dialogue The Buddha asked: - Is form permanent or impermanent? Are sensation, perception, mental formations, The disciple answered: The Buddha asked: suffering or happiness? The disciple responded: This is not the Buddha's intention but a misinterpretation The Buddha had very intelligent disciples, The notion that &quot;impermanence leads to suffering&quot; Without impermanence, how could we attain We would remain ignorant forever. It is through impermanence that afflictions Impermanence is the root of transformation The obsession with the idea of suffering and teachings. The dialogue between the Buddha and his disciple - Is form permanent or impermanent? - Venerable Sir, it is impermanent. - If it is impermanent, is there a self? - Venerable Sir, there is no self. Impermanence negates the self because the Thus, non-self and impermanence are one; where The soul is not a permanent self. Saying the soul and body are one is incorrect, because there is no unchanging, permanent In the &quot;Milinda Panha,&quot; a dialogue between is recorded. King Milinda asked: - Venerable Sir, are the soul and the body True to the spirit of the Buddha's teaching, King Milinda said: - You agreed to answer any question I ask. Why do you not answer now? Nagasena asked: - Your Majesty, are the mangoes in your royal The king could not answer because there were Nagasena then said: being one with or separate from the body when This is a profound response. There is nothing permanent and unchanging, one with the body or separate from it is incorrect. For example: A man commits an action in the By 2013, the consequences manifest, and we as the recipient. People asked the Buddha: Is the doer and the people? According to conventional understanding, or are the same. The one who sows maize harvests maize, the who sows the wind reaps the whirlwind. However, from the perspective of absolute and subject to change. From 2000 to 2013, the man has undergone significant mental formations, and consciousness. Comparing the &quot;doer&quot; with the &quot;sufferer&quot; shows To say they are the same falls into the erroneous Conversely, saying they are entirely different Therefore, the Buddha stated, &quot;I avoid both way.&quot; The Middle Way transcends both extremes. Thus, all 14 questions mentioned cannot be the world, the Tathagata, or the soul are If the world is impermanent and subject to is incorrect, saying it is impermanent is capture the full nuance, saying it is both saying it is neither permanent nor impermanent still trap one in the concept of self. If the world is without self, lacking any world is finite is incorrect, saying it is and infinite is incorrect, and saying it is because such views still entangle one in the Understanding the concept of personal non-self helps us see why the previously mentioned question to Nagasena: Are the body and soul Without an eternal soul, without a self, such or two. Not answering does not mean not knowing, but mental categories cannot convey the truth. Categories like existence, non-existence, and object are all mental constructs, and are incorrect. Therefore, all 14 questions remain unanswered, Way, which transcends wrong views including annihilation, coming, going, unity, and diversity. In the Katyayana Sutra, the Buddha states of existence and non-existence. Transcending these categories also means transcending In the Anuradha Sutta, when Anuradha was whether the Tathagata exists after death, or neither exists nor does not exist, Anuradha refused to answer: The World-Honored One, my teacher, never taught He said such questions are undetermined, unanswerable. The outsiders thought Anuruddha was unable status and let him go. Anuruddha then went back to the Buddha and Blessed One, this morning I was confronted response. Please guide me so that I may answer better The Buddha clearly taught: Anuradha, I am sitting right here in front Look at me and answer me: Is the Tathagata Venerable Sir, no. Then, do you mean the Tathagata exists aChapterfrom No, Venerable Sir. Can the Tathagata be found in sensation? No, Venerable Sir. Can the Tathagata be found outside of sensation? The Buddha asked Anuradha such questions, mental formations, and consciousness. The Buddha said: Anuradha, I am sitting right here, yet you is eternal and everlasting, even while I am How could you possibly find the Tathagata If you cannot grasp the Tathagata while I would you think you could grasp the Tathagata The Buddha was explicit: One can never find the Tathagata is still alive. We do not answer the 14 questions, not because To answer would be incorrect since those questions arising and ceasing, existence and non-existence, If we look through the lens of the Middle and non-existence, sameness and difference, merely mental categories that fail to convey Therefore, any answer given cannot fully capture This is not because we don't know and thus According to modern science, matter and energy, law of thermodynamics, indicating neither Antoine Lavoisier, a scientist, stated this. If all phenomena neither arise nor cease, terms of existence and non-existence, since or non-existence are interdependent. If there is no birth or death, how can there If there's eternal death, by principle, shouldn't Chapter 3. Conclusion The Buddha's teachings, skillfully presented, While extolling the Dharma, if we do not articulate causing harm. We must be adept in speaking the Dharma, ensuring Listeners of the Dharma also need to be skillful stuck in words and personal biases. There must be cooperation between the speaker The speaker needs to understand the mindset We must speak in such a way that what we say Listeners of the Dharma must open their hearts the authentic Dharma. Otherwise, what they perceive could end up The &quot;Parable of the Snake&quot; tells the story the Buddha's teachings and practiced incorrectly, The Buddha called Acela and questioned, &quot;I it so?&quot; He then illustrated with the example of catching If one does not know how to catch a snake A skilled person uses a forked stick to pin behind the head, not by its tail. Similarly, when listening to the Dharma, if it could turn harmful to us. The &quot;Parable of the Snake&quot; is a unique scripture, teachings, if misused, could be dangerous, can kill if used improperly.