Your cadence and bringing hip-hop and You know thank you for that, it means a lot. What is your name? My name is Lil' ShanShan. Whats up, Lil ShanShan! How old are you? I'm Lil' Shan Shan, I'm 10 years old and I'm a rapper... She has been doing this since she was about 5 years or 6 years old. I'm going to my uncle's barber shop you know... there will be a couple of people sitting on the chairs. And I'll be able to rap to them. You come to the barber shop and there's just a good energy... Positive vibes and you can spot a little Some people told you know, what do you want to be when you're older but I don't... think it has to start when you're old. She's very unique. I turned around cause that song just When that song came out I was 13 years old and I just neighborhood on my bike playing this song, the fact that you're like ten years old That's really awesome. You have so much star quality and charisma. You smashed out the park in that audition So now it's time to pick your coach. Will! Thank you so much. This is it, the battles. You guys excited? My next team: it's Ava and Alfie Peyton. and Lil' Shan Shan How can you pick a winner when they just They're just too adorable. I'm most worried about messing up one of the beats but I'm just gonna be myself... Make sure I'm having fun and make the crowd go wild. see the bigger picture It was a joy to watch each of you shine You were together so much on stage and Shan Shan, your performance and rap to the UK at such an early age, Ok, well it's time for you to make your decision. The one that's gonna go through is, Lil Shan Shan. Congratulations. Thank you! How are you feeling? Oh my gosh, guy. These are tears of joy. Congratulations. Thank you. At first, I was like what about Ladies First by Queen Latifah and Monie Love. When did you start rapping? At the age of 5 years old. Five? You write your own raps too? Of course. Do you have any lyrics to go? Can I hear one? Yeah sure. When she sang her rap, I was like wow, wait a second. It's really good. Wouldn't you like to just do your own raps? Yay, Shan Shan is doing her own raps. As Shan Shan's coach, I keep pinching myself because this doesn't feel real, For The Voice Kids I'm happy that Lil Shan Shan is breaking the mold. Will! What are you feeding these kids this is like insane. Thank you. Lil Shan Shan, I'm a little Fan Fan. I'm still like hyped up Um, I'm blown away. Rap, rhyme, mc-ing. It's such an important part of music's history. And I'm so happy that you are representing that. Thank you. You're better than a lot of adults. Will just came in and surprised us all. I wasn't expecting it and I don't think Watching Lil Shan and her crew reminded me of the joy of being around your friends... And doing music for the right reasons. It's music cause you love it. I've been in the studio all day preparing for our session with this super artist later. It's like Beyonce level. Lil Shan Shan! This is the studio that me and the Black Eyed Peas have been recording at since 2001. Now we have a chance to record your song. Here are your headphones ok. Alright let's do this. Have you been in the studio a bunch? Will is the best coach, he get's me and I get him... I feel like we're best friends. That's really dope. Working with Lil Shan Shan today, I realised I made She's 11 years old and she kind of brought the best out of my beat making. We should do a video too. Oh yes, please. A &quot;boom&quot; video She's just so excited, I'm so excited. And, action! I have to pinch myself, like is Lil Shan really I've got the music video, now I just have to give the best performance of the night. Just the fact that you ended the end every performance like that. It was Your delivery and your timing is incredible. You know, I'm so proud of Shan Shan because first off being a young female courage to come in on a singing songs for a young girl to sing. Keep that in mind. What rap songs is an 11 year old girl going to sing that's suitable. So, she comes on a show with a handicap because there's not that many songs to pick from, And then having to write all our own music to make up for the fact that there's not... that much music that's suitable for 11 So I salute you Shan Shan for I put you through to the final because you're that awesome, seriously. Shan Shan is the Jam Jam She first came on the show and performed one of my favourites, Supersonic. When you did the blind auditions you were only 10. Thats cray-cray. Thank you. When I hear her rapping I don't think of 10 more importantly she wrote those a finalist in the kids voice or the Cheers to the finals. The moment we have all been waiting for chosen as the winner of The Voice kids I can now announce the winner Sam!