In February of 2017, one of the the one at Oroville Dam in northern California, rain. You might remember this. I made a the impressive feat of rebuilding the structure. one of the contributing causes identified in spillway. Rather than being installed below reducing the thickness of the concrete and making drains below a spillway in the first place? Put of earth. It also flows through the soil and rock creates pressure that can lift and move it. That's Engineers deal with the challenge in two ways: (so gravity holds them in place) and use drains to Even though we depend on it to live, water is is far from the only problem it causes. Most way or other. Water causes some soils to expand and corrodes, wreaking all kinds of havoc water is relatively easy to manage through things get much more challenging. Subsurface it applies to everything from simple landscaping and there are a lot of things that can go wrong and this is Practical Engineering. The idea of a subsurface drain is really the garage to show you how they work. This is I filled the box with sand to simulate soil. the hole. A few strategically-placed dye tablets the rainfall simulator, watch what happens. Water within the sand. It moves toward the gravel, stones and out of the model. (Don't pay attention was a small leak in the box that was acting rain is over, the subsurface water continues This is a very simple model of what's often France but named after an American farmer, whose 1846 book on Farm Drainage cataloged used around the world. Funny enough, he was claiming "no great praise of originality in I have to admit, after reading his book, of the drains he made famous. "The art of removing superfluous water from land and from the time when Noah and his family waters into their appropriate channels ill effects of too much water, and adopted Well before we worried about draining subsurface farmers were doing it in one way or another affects the growth of crops and bogs "tile drain" is another common term for used to hold the drains open. And there clay tiles today. But French pointed out "Providence has so liberally supplied the that it seems to the most inexperienced almost, to manufacture tiles or any He was mostly right, and gravel-filled trenches non-critical applications. The problem with rocks migrated into the spaces between the gravel in my but if this were a finer-grained soil, it to transport water, slowing down the drainage open a clear space for water to flow. Over time, for use in drains. You've probably seen these materials. Rather than flowing in through the into the holes in the pipe. But which way should pipes themselves among engineers and contractors, If the holes are on the top, water has to fill the in and be carried away. If the holes are on the flows slower and is less likely to wash away any it seems like most of the manufacturers recommend be completely saturated before water can enter the important, and actually, a lot of perforated pipes around so you don't even have to think about it. if it seems counterintuitive to you to orient the With a pipe in the middle of the gravel layer, Just like before, water makes its way through the soil toward Let's watch that sped up. When the rain is it's no longer saturated. Hopefully it's clear how eventually dry out of the soil by flowing away or with a drain, gives it less opportunity to against a structure creating long-term movement, I'm using sand in my model to speed up these with a pipe inside is working pretty well to keep most places we want to drain aren't overlain by including silt and clay. These small but tinier particles would just flow right through water dislodges and carries soil particles away my French Drain model with large stones between You can see the turbid water coming through the drain, indicating that you watch closely on the right side, you can see washes through the rocks to create a sinkhole, Made a HECK of a mess (pardon my French drain). I've talked about internal erosion and sinkholes in a previous video, so check that one out if you in clogging if the soil particles move into the problem with subsurface drains, so properly The design you're probably most familiar with if uses geotextile fabric. These are permeable separating different layers of soil adding reinforcement to backfill, and filtering french drain design uses geotextile fabric from migrating in. It's sometimes known as some limitations. It's easy to damage during repair or replace once it's in place. And it also after all, so once soil particles get stuck, they and efficiency. But there is another option for It is hard to overstate the importance of properly take it from the Federal Emergency Filters for Embankment Dams: Best Practices for try the Bureau of Reclamation in their 400-page Structures. A civil engineer could spend an entire and for good reason. Lots of high-profile a lack of drains or ones that weren't designed For embankment dams that are built particles can spell demise. And if you think structures, you can imagine how hard it is to hold it back. That's why they use filters right here in this FEMA status report: "It's the that geotextiles should not be used in locations Instead, they use sand. Just like the gravel while holding back the sand particles, sand can acting as a filter. But it's a little more of a variety of sizes of particles. I can an example. I have a collection of sieves with the one above. I put my sand in at the top. Then (a little razzle-dazzle) And when I open it back up, the sand is all sorted If you weigh out the fraction that got caught in each sieve and plot that on a graph, you get curve, also called the soil's gradation. Soils can important to understand in this case, because what you're trying to filter out. Once you know a number of engineering methods to find a material holding the soil back. And in a lot of cases, on the sand we're used to using in concrete and Actually, for dams, you often can get either the through, but not both in the same material. first stage filters the base soil material. but lets water flow more freely. And then, get the water out of the drain as quickly as to the demonstration I built: As for dealing with the water once it's out options. The easiest is to simply release it But if you don't have a low point on the to pump it. If you have a basement at your which is just a low spot for drainage to REALLY GOOD idea to have a sump pump, to move Of course, there's a lot more to this. Dams have design. Concrete dams often include a gallery or Embankment dams often feature a large internal moving through cracks or pores from carrying soil structures, like retaining walls, rely on good the bad things that water does, not to mention lots of interesting designs and maybe even more to accomplish those two main tasks: get the water it's all the same engineering whether you're structure or just keep your basement "Indeed, the importance of seems all at once to have found universal not only from agriculturists, but from I don't think anyone could reasonably call and I hope you agree that, from dams to fields to French drains are one of those topics right? No studio executive would be like, "Yes, love about this channel is that it's created a things like subsurface drains. TV used to I loved the old History and Discovery into reality shows and reruns, and I've found days is done by passionate independent I have a recommendation for you: The Getaway It's a gameshow with a hilarious premise, are all big YouTubers, by the way) are snitches, just leads to all these very funny situations the contests. Plus the behind-the-scene the confusion under control are wonderful. and it's one of those creative experiments that The chaos of it is what makes it great, and I talk about Nebula a lot. It's a streaming and it's growing super fast. After the major find new stuff to love, we've leaned into like The Getaway; basically allowing your without the fear of having it flop on YouTube's interesting, and thoughtful videos. My videos and right now, a subscription is 40% Plus if you already have a subscription, now cards now. Give someone you love a podcasts, and classes from their favorite nebula.tv/practicalengineering for yourself a friend. Thank you for watching,