In 1950 an article was published in multiple unexplained disappearances between the coast The article details five separate incidents 9 planes, and some 135 civilians and crewmen It was the first time this particular region prone to nautical vanishments. But as the author failed to provide a cause mystery was born. In 1952 a magazine specializing in the paranormal, between the US state of Florida as well as If this triangular shape seems almost arbitrarily The author makes no attempt to justify their Once this idea of an enigmatic triangle had was inevitable. A 1964 issue of the American pulp fiction caption &quot;Lost in The Bermuda Triangle&quot;. The article inside covers many of the same severely embellished narrative complete with Which is exactly what you'd expect from a Few would suppose a magazine, with a sensational sound and comprehensively researched analysis. And why would you? Argosy was targeting a very specific crowd. Those who seek to be entertained by mysteries, The Bermuda Triangle is, and has always been, The very definition of a legend. One of the oldest stories said to exemplify is that of the first transatlantic voyage Three events are said to be of note. The crew observed a fireball of some kind, and a strange light seemed to be suspended The fireball was more &quot;A marvelous branch of fire While invoking aliens and UFOs would certainly a meteor would be more than qualified to to In fact shooting stars are the most common the Earth and this sighting occurred on September On September the 17th the crew noticed their This was certainly alarming at the time but effect known as magnetic declination. In short, the needle in a compass aligns with with true north. More importantly however, neither of these two events but in the middle of the North Atlantic. A fact that many seem to conveniently disregard. However, the strange light was indeed sighted Columbus described the light as: But he also believed it to be an indication In fact mere hours after observing the light, continent, supporting Columbus's suspicion Perhaps a torch or bonfire by the indigenous As should be evident by now, this is all very beneath the surface. Flight 19, featured here in Close Encounters disappearance connected to the Bermuda Triangle. Some would argue it is the catalyst for the entire phenomenon. The story goes like this. On the 5th of December, 1945, a squadron of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. It was a routine navigation exercise that 14 experienced pilots and crewmen. Some two hours into the exercise the squadron of the leading plane disoriented as both of his Multiple stations maintained sporadic contact current location with little to no success. Communications between the five planes were over directions and bearings. As the minutes passed, the signal between and it became increasingly difficult to maintain Roughly four hours after takeoff Navy personnel location at some 200 km north of their intended A flying boat, with designation ST-49, was after a routine transmission it inexplicably Five hours after takeoff a final transmission It was simply a failed attempt by one plane seen or heard from again. It sure sounds mysterious but I suspect the The five planes were piloted by four students Upon departure one of the students assumed acted as a supervisor. After turning North towards the island of be guiding them in the wrong direction so As you read the radio logs and testimonies Taylor confused the islands in the Bahamas He was heard saying: &quot;Both my compasses are out and I am trying &quot;I am over land but it's broken.&quot; &quot;I'm sure I'm in the Keys but I don't know how far In other words, he confused his actual position This may be hard to accept as Taylor was an Taylor had previously been stationed as a in Miami and training exercises launched from Prior to that, he'd been stationed at Key So it's entirely possible that Flight 19 was Something that further supports this theory as MT-28 standing for Miami Torpedo Bomber 28. His correct ID was FT-28 for Fort Lauderdale. This growing confusion of what he knew from is likely why he came to distrust his instruments malfunctioned simultaneously. As Taylor thought he was in the Keys he continued this had the opposite effect of taking them He was also disincentivized from turning west taken them into the Gulf of Mexico. In reality, turning west would've saved their Meanwhile the weather was getting worse, the the sea grew increasingly violent. The logs reveal how truly desperate the situation At one point Taylor informed his students: &quot;Fly [in] close formation [and] when one plane drops to ten gallons of gas all planes will land together.&quot; Suggesting that even in the event of a crash, He later continued: &quot;I suggest we fly due east until we run out of gas. We have a better chance of being picked up close to shore.&quot; At this point they're flying away from the Some of the last discernible messages reads: &quot;Have to land on water unless landfall.&quot; &quot;We may have to ditch any minute.&quot; Then there's the flying boat ST-49. ST-49 was initially scheduled for a night on the location of Flight 19, it was diverted After a routine departure transmission it But it was likely seen again. 23 minutes after ST-49 took off, a ship reported impact with the ocean. The resulting inferno continued for several above the ocean surface. Once the ship reached the location of the but no survivors. Yet another ship equipped with radar observed exact same time the explosion was sighted. While an explosion is certainly surprising of note, the plane had &quot;went aground&quot; due What exactly &quot;went aground&quot; entails is not of the plane's hull. Some Navy personnel immediately presumed the Despite a systematic and week-long search nothing and no one was ever found. Though multiple planes and ships did report All available evidence suggest that Flight 19 of fuel while ST-49 combusted and exploded, The six planes and all 27 airmen aboard sank But not every incident can be so thoroughly On the 17th of January 1949, a plane known as the An hour into the flight, the pilot made a alarm but the plane was never seen or heard There was no evidence of a crash and no distress excellent for the entire duration of the flight; and had flown this specific route many times prior to departure. A succeeding investigation failed to determine What makes this even more mysterious is that vanished under similar circumstances the year On January the 30th, 1948, the Star Tiger the east. The pilot and the rest of the crew where highly with strong winds and heavy rain. The strong winds had blown the plane off course and they where never seen or heard from again. The succeeding investigation concluded: &quot;In closing this report it may truly be said baffling problem has ever been presented for investigation.&quot; &quot;What happened in this case will never be known and the But even in information deprived cases like For example, the accident report of the Star maintained and known defects remained unrectified. Subsequent investigations also found that in the cabin that was prone to malfunction of combustion and explosion. Two pilots experienced with this type of aircraft of them stated: &quot;My theory is that hydraulic vapor escaped from a leak, Perhaps one of the most mysterious incidents Carroll A. Deering. On January the 9th, 1921, the Deering departed Less than 3 weeks later the ship was sighted and the lightship's engineer took this photograph The person at the helm of the Deering hailed them that they had lost both their anchors. The ship then progressed up the coast towards Two days after the sighting by the lightship The ship had run aground in an area known been abandoned. This was confirmed once the ship was boarded the crew's personal belongings, key navigational equipment, various documents, two life boats, as well as the ship's two anchors where found to be Furthermore, the steering wheel and other destroyed with a sledgehammer. There was no sign of the 11 crewman and they A few months later, a man named Christopher not far from the wreckage and it reads as &quot;Deering captured by oil burning ship, something Taking off everything, handcuffing crew. Crew hiding all over ship. No chance of escape. Finder, please notify headquarters of Deering.&quot; The message was perceived to be genuine and Carroll A. Deering had fallen victim to piracy. But then a few months after that, handwriting the message and that the entire thing was But Gray may not have been too far off as The US State Department issued a statement &quot;There is every suspicion of foul play.&quot; First of all, the person who hailed the lightship He was described by the lightship keeper as So me without a soul. While this description could not have been the other crewmen, most of which where Danes. Which, of course, only strengthens the possibility Secondly, later investigations found that crew was strenuous at best. Prior to departing Barbados both the captain and the captain was concerned that the crew The first mate had also requested a ship of boasted that he would &quot;get the captain&quot; before The first mate was subsequently arrested because himself who forgave him for what he'd said. So there's plenty of evidence to suspect a Nevertheless, this cannot fully explain why the crew disappeared so completely. But it gets even stranger. Soon after the Deering had passed the lightship, It was a large steamship painted black roughly When the lightship hailed the vessel, not unfurled a canvas to cover the ship's nameplate Some have speculated that this could've been around the same time but unless further evidence So perhaps Gray was unintentionally correct. Perhaps the mysterious vessel was indeed a the crew conspired to commit mutiny. In either case, numerous elements are at best To conclude this video I'd like to If The Bermuda Triangle was anything but a maps and nautical charts? If the US Coast Guard is so concerned with have a responsibility to warn the populous Yet, they and every other relevant authority to sail and fly through the region every single If we need a sign for wet floors, a sign for imminent After all the region that is the Bermuda Triangle Now one could argue that more traffic equals but that would almost make a bit too much sense. One of the articles I showcased at the beginning &quot;Will somebody please come up with where all these planes, ships, and possibly I'm gonna take a wild stab at this and say The ships and planes, and possibly submarines, Georgie: No, they sink. I don't know what to tell you but a catastrophe Besides, do you really want to listen to a of reality itself? Pennywise: Okay, I may be overtly facetious at this point what makes it so fascinating to me. Despite my best efforts I've been totally what exactly constitutes as a Bermuda Triangle How does one know when to attribute a missing It sounds like, and it truly should be, an In some cases, such as in the case of Flight confines of the triangle but Flight 19 is Most vanishments occur when the route of a In 1963 a ship known as the SS Marine Sulphur heading for Norfolk, Virginia. Her last known location was here but then inexplicable abyss. Her disappearance is blamed on the powers ship is just as likely to have disappeared In fact, the Coast Guard believes she disappeared what do they know. In 1954 a plane disappeared while traveling It is said to be a victim of the Bermuda Triangle It's even more embarrassing in the case of safely traversed the entire Bermuda Triangle Proponents will often justify these inclusions In other words, disappearances in close proximity of the triangle. Okay but how far do these adjacent regions Is the Gulf of Mexico an adjacent region? The Caribbean Sea? The coast of Brazil? The coast of Nova Scotia? The entire North Atlantic perhaps? If that's the case, why even bother with a I've compiled a list of some 40 disappearances and if they are all to be included, I think If anything, the true mystery behind The Bermuda upon it being mysterious. As far as I can tell, there is nothing uniquely to the rest of the ocean. Ships and planes vanishing without a trace not limited to a corner of the North Atlantic The amount of vanishments in a given area amount of traffic, the frequency of adverse of powerful oceanic currents. The Bermuda Triangle ticks all three boxes. There's a ton of traffic, it is frequently intersected by the Gulf Stream. But I have to say the most crucial flaw of this The fundamental aspect of the Bermuda Triangle yet each disappearance could not be more different. Some vanishments occur during a storm, some Some when the sea is turbulent, some when Some during the day, some during the night. Probable causes include mechanical failure, fuel starvation, inexperience, piracy, mutiny, etc. Some ships and planes are brand new, some Some are extremely large, some are tiny. Bodies, debris, and wreckage can at times A distress signal is sometimes transceived, It involves every type of vessel and every They can be traveling at any speed, in any of passengers, for any amount of time, for Whatever this mysterious force is, it is certainly