let's bring out the former president of the United States, the Republican nominee for presi former President Donald Trump. Thank you, Mr. President. We so appreciate you giving us an hour of your ti I want to start by addressing the elephant in the room, sir. A lot of people did not think it was appropriate for you to be here today. You have pushed false claims about some of your rivals, from Nikki Haley to former President Barack Obama saying that they were not born in the United States, which is n You have told four congresswoman who were American citizens to go back to where they came fr You have used words like animal and rabbit to describe black district attorneys. You attacked black journalists, calling them a loser, saying the questions that they a are, quote, stupid and racist. You've had dinner with a white supremacist at your a Lago resort. So my question, sir, now that you were asking black supporters to vote for you why should black voters trust yo after you have used language lik Well, first of all, I don't think I've ever bee asked the question. So in such a horrible manner. A first question, you don't even say hello, how ar Are you with ABC? Because I think they're a fake n network, a terrible network. And I think it's disgraceful that I in good spirit. I love the black population of this country. I've done so much for the black population of this country, including employment, including opportunity zones, with Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, which is one of the greatest pro ever for black workers and black entrepreneurs. I've done so much and you know, and I say this. Historically, black colleges and universities were out of money. They were stone cold broke, and I saved them and I gave them long term financ and nobody else was doing it. I think it's a very rude introdu I don't know exactly why you would do something like that And let me go a step further. I was invited here and I was told my opponent, whether it was Biden or Kamala, I was told my opponent was going to be here It turned out my opponent isn't You invited me under false prete and then you said, you can't do it with Zoom. Well, you know, with Zoom, she's going to do it with Zoom and she's not coming. And then you were half an hour l Just so we understand. I have too much respect for you to be late. They couldn't get their equipmen working or something was wrong. I would I think it's a very nasty questi and I have answered the question properly. You with I have been the best president for the black population since Abraham Lincoln. That's my answer. Better than President Johnson, who signed the Voting Rights Act To start off my question and answer period, especially when you're 35 minute because you couldn't get your eq to work in such a hostile manner, I think it's a disgrace. Let me just ask a follow up, sir and then we'll move on to other questions here. Some of your own supporters, including Republicans on Capitol Hill, have labeled Vice President Kamala Harris, who is the first black and Asian American woman to serv president and be on a major part as a DTI hire? Is that acceptable language to y And will you tell those Republic and those supporters to stop it? How do you how do you define TPA Go ahead. How do you define diversity, equity and inclusion? Okay. Yeah, go ahead. Is that what your definition tha That that is. Give me a definiti And would you give me a definiti Give me a definition. So I'm asking you a question to define it and define the define it for me, if I just defined it. Sir, do you believe that Vice Pr Kamala Harris is only on the tic because she is a black woman? Well, I can say no. I think it's maybe a little bit different. So I've known her a long time. Indirectly, not directly, very m And she was always of Indian her And she was only promoting Indian heritage. I didn't know she was black until a number of years ago when she happened to turn black. And now she wants to be known as So I don't know. Is she Indian or is she black? She is always I know as a black, I respect wha I respect either one. But she obviously doesn't because she was Indian. All the And then all of a sudden she made a turn and she went she became a black. Just to be clear, sir, do you th I think somebody should look into that, too, when you ask a continuing a very hostile, nas It's a direct question, sir. Do you believe that Vice President Kamala Harris is a I higher as some. I really don't I mean, I really don't know. Could be, could be. There are some and there are ple I know this lady right over ther Harris is a fantastic person who just interviewed me at lengt and we had a great interview. I think I heard you get very good rating And when you told me it was the longest one of your l so we had a good discussion. Look, I want to talk about why you're here today. I mean, it is not lost on us how divided we are as a country. And as you were coming today, we really got to see that we were divided along the lines of race, along the lines of gender. And there is this question of in moment where we are. Why come here? What is your message today? My message is to stop people from invading our country that are taking, frankly, a lot of problems with it. But one of the big problems and a lot of the journalists in this room, I know and I have great respect a lot of the journalists in this room are black. I will tell you that coming comi the border are millions and millions of people that happen to be taking black j You had the best. What exactly is a black job, sir A black job is anybody that has That's what it is. Anybody that All right. And they take it. They're taking the employment aw from black people. They're coming in and they're co They're invading. It's an invasion of millions of probably 15, 16, 17 million peop I have a feeling it's much more than that. And everybody has been saying, what's happened? The first group of people, the black population, is affecte most by that. And Kamala is allowing it to hap She's the borders are she's the Borders are in the history of th There's ever been a borders like She's never even essentially bee she said she was there once, but not the right part of the bo So she was a border. She's done a horrible job. These people are coming into our and they're taking black jobs and Hispanic jobs. And frankly, they're taking unio Unions are being very badly affe by all of the millions of people that are pouring into our countr And one thing has to we as we di many of these people are coming from mental institutions, from prisons, from jails, their gang members in other coun other countries are setting loos their prisoners. They're opening up their prisons and their mental institutions. And they're taking their they're bad people, drug dealers gang members, and they're bringing them into the United States. And by the way, their crime rate is going down and our crime rate is going to be a disaster. Presi I want to get into how you address some of the issues with black communities. And I say that plural, because we live in communities o that are different. We're not all the same. We don't vote the same. We don't think that's true. It's not monolithic. So as you come here today, I want to talk about something that bursts. And this is the weight of the inflation on this country right now. The nonprofit Money Management International recently released data from its mid-year analysis that we have found a 52 in people who are seeking counse for being in credit debt. They're paying for food that is sky high on their credit and now they can't pay that off the credit counseling nonprofit as I said, is saying now that they've seen surges that they haven't seen since we were in a pandemic of p in financial trouble. Much of that falls on the should of single mom, single black moms When you look statistically, how do you turn it around? What's your plan for the black c when it comes to money? So first of all, it's very hard to hear you for whatev because of the fact that they have bad equipment, because I guess, you know, this woman was able to get the right equipment. But it's very hard for me to hea But I can hear every other word. It's very difficult, actually. But so I don't know if they can or do something with it, but I'll do the best I can with The inflation is absolutely destroying our middle class, our working class, virtually eve Inflation is a disaster in our c Inflation is a country buster. It breaks every country. And we had, in my opinion, the worst inflation we've had. They say it's 58 years, but I think it's much more than It's been devastating. And if you just take a look at a lot of the things they don't include, like interes Interest rates went from 2.4% to And you can't get the money. People can't buy houses. They no longer have the American Young people, young black people they don't have the American dream anymore. They can't buy a house. They can't borrow the money because the cost of the money they can't buy because of the cost of housing, because of the cost to build it, because of inflation. Inflation is a disaster and it's destroying our country and it's destroying the black co Probably as much. So what do you What's your plan? You know, we have to do we have to bring down the cost o and that's going to bring down the cost of inflation. This was all started with a bad energy policy by Joe By the way, just if I might, I was running against a man name You probably saw that. And he was losing very badly in the polls. And then he had a rather bad deb I would say it was a bad debate. I would say it was one of the wo worst debates in history. And his poll numbers crashed. And instead of saying, you know, let's keep going and maybe something happens the other way, they said, oh, we're going to replace him. Let's just replace him. That's like you're in a fight, a prizefighters in a fight. He's not doing what you say. Let's bring in another fighter. So our whole campaign was geared toward him and now we have to steer it to h But ultimately, it's the same because they have bad policy. They have policies of open borde unbelievable open borders, horrible energy policies. They want to get rid of, as you say, gasoline and cars. They want to get rid of oil. They want to get rid of efficien efficient heating. Environmentally, what they're do is killing our country. They're absolutely destroying our country. But the inflation is the thing that's hurting the black worker, the black population, and every other population within our country. Inflation is the worst it's been I think, in over 100 years. And they'll fact check it. They'll say it's only 58, whatever it may be. They don't add all the numbers. They don't have the really bad n And you can check that, too. But inflation. HARRIS, is absolutely destroying this country and the people in our country. Y The president. Can I ask you another question? So impacting blacks, and that's very clear in a I'm sorry, it's very clear. I hear you. Okay. So Claudia massey, someone from Illinois, an unarmed black woman, was shot the other day in her home by a deputy sheriff. The deputy has since been charge with murder. You said police would get immunity from prosecut And if you win, why should someone like that officer have i in your opinion? Immunity? Immunity? I don't know the exact case, but I saw something and it didn' It didn't look good to me. It didn't look good to me. Are you talking with the water? Yeah, well, I mean, police unions are not backing this person either, but they're going to be charging the officer. I guess they're charging the off So why should he receive immunit Well, he might not. I mean, it depends. It depends on what happens. I'm talking about people that are much different cases th We need people to protect oursel And by the way, in Chicago, as an example, a few weeks ago on July 4th week that 117 shootings and 17 deaths Nobody wants that. Nobody wants that. We need to have our police officers have the respect and dignity bac in this particular case, I saw something that didn't look good to me. I didn't like it. I didn't like it at all. So can you get a little more spe back to the immunity question. Who would make those take those who are riding for the most part For the most part, people are protected by their unions, by their police unions, or by their police departments. What I'm saying is, if I felt or if if a group of people would feel somebody was being unfairly pros because the person did a good jo maybe with crime or made a mistake, an innocent m there's a big difference between being a bad person and making an innocent mistake. But if somebody made an innocent I would want to help that person What would those exceptions be? What was what would determine where you go after for somebody? And it's a very close call and it's very dangerous and, you they have the policeman's life and woman i a very difficult thing because sometimes you have less than a second to make it, you know, life and death decisio And sometimes very bad decisions are made. They're not made from an evil st but they're made from the standp they made a mistake. So I want to follow up really qu You know, I find it interesting because you do talk about reinin prosecutors, especially when it comes to pros that are prosecuting you. Why doesn't that skepticism appl to law enforcement? Well, I've been a prosecutor because I'm a political opponent of two people that have weaponiz our justice system. I've been prosecuted. I just won the big case in Flori Everyone said that was the bigge That was the most difficult case And I just want it now. Biden has a similar case, except much worse. I was protected under the Presidential Records A Biden wasn't because he wasn't president at t and he had 50 years worth of doc and they ruled that he was incom and therefore he shouldn't stand And I said, isn't that something He's incompetent and he can't stand trial, and ye he can be president. Isn't that nice, Mr. President? They released him on the basis that he was incompetent. They said he had no memory and he was a nice old guy, but he had no memory and therefore we're not going to prosecute him. I won the case and got very little publicity. I didn't notice ABC doing any publicity on it. George Bush, top adviser. I'd love to move on to the intel You do any publicity on it at al I won the case. The biggest case, this this is an attack on a political opponent. I have another one where I have an Idol judge. We had you for a limited time, so I'd love to move on to differ Excuse me. You're the one that held me up at 35 minutes. Just so you understand, If we can move on now to the state of the race. Sir, I want to get back to the c Senator J.D. Vance is your runni He's had a lot of controversy la And I want to read you a few thi that he has said in the past. He said the Democrats running the country are a bunch of child cat ladies who are miserable at their own l and the choices they've made. And so they don't they want to make the rest of th miserable, too. He's not talking here about how great it is to be a pa He's attacking what he says are the choices people are making to not have ch Did you know that he had these v about people who do not have chi before you picked him to be your running mate? And do you agree with him? No. I know this. He is very family oriented and he thinks family is a great That doesn't mean he thinks that if you don't have a family, it's I know people have families. I know people with great familie I know people with very troubled families. And I also know people with no f They didn't meet the right perso Things happen. You go through life. You don't meet the right person, not just talking to families her And some of those people that don't have children should get less votes than those I'm just speaking for myself. I think I'm speaking for him, to He strongly believes in family. But I know people with great fam I know people with not great fam that don't have a family. And the people without the family are far bette They're superior in many cases. He's not saying they're not. What he's saying is that he thinks the family experience is a very important thing. It's a very good thing. But that doesn't mean that if yo grow up and you grow older and you don't meet somebody, that would be wonderful to meet. It would have been good that that's a bad thing. He's not saying that he would. My interpretation, you'll have to ask him, actually But my interpretation is he's strongly family oriented. But that doesn't mean if you don't have a family, there's something wrong with it. Just one last point and then we'll move on. Just just one of the bedrock principles of American life is one person, one vote. Senator J.D. Vance has suggested that someone who has children should have more votes than a person who does not have I just want to be clear here. Is that the position of your cam Well, no, but it's not something I have ever heard before. I can tell you this right now. You have illegal aliens coming into our country and many from prisons and many f mental institutions, and they want to give them votes I don't think they should have v They came into our country illeg People they're taking their vote away from all of the people in this r that have been here a long time, that have worked hard, that in many cases and you'll see this happening if I'm not elected, you're going to see that I am. You're not going to have any pro but you're going to see it happe a long time. You're going to see the people in this room and people outside of this room are going to be losing their job The people that have come into t country illegally. Mr. President, can we stay with just kind of the state of the race right now? Because I felt like that. Vice president. Question candidate question was right in there with that know. So let's talk about J.D. Vance for a little bit. He's had some stumbles out of th I don't know if you're hearing what we hear as reporters, but it's been a tough couple of weeks for him. Why did you choose J.D. Vance? Why now? Why did you choose him? And I'm having a hard time heari everybody out there. Can I tell you why I chose him? Because he's a very strong belie in work and the working man and and especially the working man a who have been treated very unfai because you have many of them, many of them in this room, but you have many of those peopl They were treated very unfairly. They worked very hard and they were treated unfairly. He wrote the book that became a bestseller. The movie became a smash hit. He's a very smart guy without the benefit of having a that has contacts like a father that was well connected. He got into Yale Law School. He graduated in two years from Ohio State, summa cum laude I mean, you take a look at, you know, his career has been an amazing c He started off at a level with a difficult family situation, very difficult with the mother and the father and everything el He ends up going to Yale Law Sch as one of the top students became the head of the law journ I mean, that's an amazing thing. He went he's a four year. He was in the military with great distinction for four got out, went into business, became successful in business, very successful in business, actually did public offerings and other thing And I you know, I have to believe in t I mean, he's somebody that was born in a rough situation. Most of the people know that sit This was very well documented in his book And I have a lot of respect for somebody that can get into Yale and become one of the best students in Yale that meets a young woman at Yale who was also outstanding. And they get married. They have a beautiful family. But he had a you know, he's made himself an amazing life. He then gets goes to Ohio, lives in Ohio, and he had my endorsement. That helped. But he wins the Senate. He becomes a United States senat So he's a United States senator so and so. HARRIS Like I respect you for your success. I respect people for their succe The reason I ask the question is because the last time you and sat and talked was the day that you were shot. We've been together for much of You left to go to Butler, Pennsy and we didn't know what was next Yeah. And two days after that, I cannot understand your microph I know it is really hard for you I mean, it's just I can understand you perfectly w It's closer. I can understand. I'm happy to hear that. But I can understand. Harris, have a few more question Because of the distance. And the mikes are really in lous But I cannot understand you asking what you're saying is So what I wanted to say was, the last time we spoke, you said some words that were pr because I asked you who you wanted to choose for vice president, and you said normally it really wouldn't matter what they would. You choose somebody that you thi has a future, that sort of thing But you said these words three and a half hours before an attempted assassination on your life. You told me that bad things happ HARRIS And that's why this decision is this time. Bad things happen. You said it twice. When you look at J.D. Vance, is he ready on day one? Does he were ready on day one? If he has to be. I've always had great respect fo and for the other candidates, to But I will say this and I think this is well documen historically, the vice president in terms of the election does not have any impact. I mean, virtually no impact. You have two or three days where there's a lot of commotion as to who like you're having it on the Democrat side, who it's going to be, and then that dies down. And it's all about the president Virtually never has it mattered. Maybe Lyndon Johnson mattered for different reasons or what we're talking about. Not for what reasons, but for political reasons. Other political reasons. But historically, the choice of a vice president makes no difference. You're voting for the president, you can have a vice president who is outstanding in every way. And I think J.D. is I think that all of them would have been. But but you're not voting that w You're voting for the president. You're voting for me. If you like me, I'm going to win If you don't like me, I'm not going to win. I'm going to get my J.D. Vance question and J.D. Vance. I'm going to get my J.D. Vance. And then to your point and to Rachel's po you know, has a lot of opinions about childless women like myself or divorced people like yourself. Do you think? Well, I mean, my point is he was said in a friendly manner. My point is, do you think the party, the Republican Party, is getting a little bit too judg about people's lives when you think about abortion or when you think about what J.D Vance is saying? I don't think look, I think that the Democrat Party is really the one that has the problem. I think they're radical on abort because they allowing abortion in the ninth m they're allowing that. But I think they're allowing the death of a after the baby is born based on. Sir, that's the governor of Virginia State. That's based on the governor of They're allowing the state, the baby, to leave illegal after it's born They're allowing abortions in the eighth and ninth month. Well, Democrats have denied I think they're wrong. And I think the Republican Party is actually much lesser. I think I've made them much less radical, perhaps. But the Republican Party, what we're doing is bringing it to the states where everybody wa Democrats, Republicans, liberals, conservative, everybody wanted abortion brough They didn't want Roe v Wade in the federal government. They wanted it. Everybody. But the majority of Americans op Roe v Wade being they they don't know about this right They're voting it brought it back to the states Now, I happen to believe in the three exceptions Ronald Reagan believe with rape, life of the mother. I do. I think most people do. I think most Republicans do also But if you take a look right now, they're doing it's an amazing thing out of the federal government. It's in states and people are vo and I will say Ohio is let's let's call it a more liberal ver has been approved. Kansas, the same thing, a little surprising to a lot of people, but the people are now voting and it's taking this issue that's been going on for 52 year and it's torn our country apart and it's giving it to the people to vote on and they're voting and many states have already vot Others are in the process of voting and it's bringing it back to the and a vote of the people. And it's not at all radical. And again, you have to follow yo I happen to believe in the three exceptions. Most people believe in the three exception, mostly Republicans believe in the exceptions, but they don't want to see an ab in the ninth month or the eighth Almost everybody agrees to that, and they certainly don't want to in the case of the governor of Virginia, the former governor and my dad, who said we set the baby aside and then we decide what to do, m what do we do? We execute. The baby cannot. That's a radical, horrible posit And some people some people want I don't want it. And most people Thank you. Can I just flip it really quickly to another que about you brought up health, Har You're an active man. You we see you golfing all the t But if you if you win, you'll still be president at 82, which is older than Biden is right now, but not mentally. Look, mentally. Here's the question. You shot. He shot. But most people would. You could Most people I know many people in the eighti and then nineties that are in great shape. Some of our greatest leaders you look at throughout the world world history, the greatest leaders, some of the greatest leaders in were in their eighties. But here's the question Would you consider stepping down if you felt that your health was declining or wou Absolutely. And who would I think I'd know? How would you make that decision I think I'd know. Look, if I came on to a stage li and I got treated so rudely as this woman, Oh, my And I'm fine with it because she it doesn't. She was very rude, sir. Very rude. That was a nasty that wasn't a q She asked me a question. She gave a statement That wasn't a question. I repeated her statement. Actual You said you would. You would? Oh, absolutely. If I thought that I was failing in some way. I want people to be sharp. I'll go a step further. I want anybody running for presi to take an aptitude test and take a cognitive test. I think it's a great idea. And I took two of them and I jus I took two of them. But let me ask you, I would like to have people running for president. And I don't mean because they're 75 or 85. I think anybody running, I'd like to do it. People say it's not constitution I would like to have something p where you can do it. I think we should, you know, I mean, I've watched what's happened in the last couple of years under this gentl And our country is a mess. We have inflation. We have the millions of people falling in. We have Afghanistan, which was t most embarrassing moment in the history of our country. What he has done to our country and her to what they've done to our country. She has been a horrible vice pre She's considered the worst vice in the history of our. Mr. Trump, love you. But would you consider taking the cognitive test? Mr. President, I would look and make in public what I've already taken two of t but I'll do it again. Mrs.. How do you intend? I suggested. Harris that Let's take one. I said, Joe and I will go and take a cognitive test now. I do it with her too. I would do it with her also. You know what? She failed her log jam. She didn't pass her log jam, so maybe she wouldn't pass the cognitive test. Mr. President, are you saying she we Just to be clear, he is giving you the fact to be You don't think to test and she will pass her bar exam and she didn't think she would p and she didn't think she was going to have it pass it And I don't know what happened. Maybe she passed it. She didn't It was a man over here, in fact. Password. Mr. President, I would love to ask you about January six. You called yourself the candidate of Law and Order. When Time magazine asked you if you would consider pardoning all the rioters, you said Yes, absolutely. You called them Patriots. 140 police officers were assault that day. Their injuries included broken b At least one officer lost an eye One had two cracked ribs, two smashed spinal discs, another had a stroke. Were the people who assaulted th officers, including those I just mentioned, patriots who deserve pardons? Well, let me bring it back to mo Like about five days ago, we had an attack on the Capitol, horrible attack on the Capitol. You saw the people that were pro and spraying these incredible monuments, bells, lions, all these magnificent limestone and granite with red paint, red spray paint that will never actually come of especially in the limestone. It will never I'm a builder. I know about this stuff. It'll never you'll see it in a hundred years from now. They viciously attacked our gove They fought with police. They fought with them much more openly than I saw on January six. What's going to happen to those What's going to happen to the people in Portland that d My question is on what's going to happen with the rioters who assaulted o You have to. And you. What's going to happen? Oh, absolutely. I would. You would punish those if they're innocent, I would par They've been convicted, by the w the Supreme Court just under. Well, they were convicted by a very, very tough They were. How come the people that tried to burn do Minneapolis, how come the people that took ov a large percentage of Seattle, how come nothing happened to the How come the people we're talking about people that we're seen beating? We're talking about blackfellas dragging them down the stairs there, aren't they? Have you seen that video? Well, they would pardon those who you would pardon those riote They shot a young lady in the fa who was protesting. They shot her the way you know, nobody died that day. You do know that. But people died in Seattle. Nobody died, but people died. And we have you know, people died in Minneap and nothing happens and nobody ever talks. And nothing happens to those peo But you went after the J six people with a vengeance. And I'll tell you what. What about the cops that were and I'm all for the police, as y but what about the police that are ushering, ushering everybody into the Capi Go in, go in, go in. What about that? Look, no one, nothing is nothing is perfect in But you have people from Minneap You have people just from five d in Washington, D.C. They were having fist fights and fighting with the police. They were spraying and destroyed They were desecrating our monume in Washington, D.C., DC five days ago, and nothing happened to them. And you have to you can't have two systems of ju That's why they went after me as a political opponent, because they felt they couldn't without doing that. And we're going to win our cases and we're going to be vindicated But I have to spend a lot of tim and money. That's what they want after the They won't care. Although in my case, I think they probably will because the hatred is pretty dee But I'll tell you, they went after me as a political opponent. That's never happened in our country before and it sets a terrible, terrible precedent. What did you do on day one if yo What's your first thing? What do I close the border. I do two things because I can do a lot of things simultaneously. I close the border. We don't want people coming. We want people to come in. HARRI But they have to be vetted. They have to be checked. They have to come in legally. We want you to go. I want people to come into our c But they have to be vetted. They have to be checked. So when you say, what do I do that and I drill, baby, drill, I bring energy way down. I bring interest rates are down, I bring inflation way down so people can buy bacon again, so people can buy a ham sandwich so that people can go to a resta and afford it. Because right now people can't b Your grocery bills are up 40, 50 Right. She's going to me. Oh, she's agreeing. Thank you. I like you very much that I think we are. But it's but it's true. Your grocery bills are up and then they're mandating that you buy an all electric car You know, Elon Musk endorsed me, and he's a friend of mine. He's a good guy. He's a smart gu But I'm against all everybody having an electric car Okay? I'm very much against that You have to be able to, if you want a hybrid or if you want a gasoline propel But, you know, we have more liquid gold, gasoli under our feet than any other co more than Saudi Arabia, more than Russia, more than any other country. I want to use it. I want to use what we have. I want to bring down prices, bring down costs. And I also have to stop the inva And remember, they're taking you These people coming in are taking your project to 2025. I think we have to leave it ther by the Trump team. All right. So leave it, Will. That is the last word. Thank you so much, Mr. Trump, for coming in today and joining us. Well, thank you very much. They've been telling us I thank Thank you, everybody, very much. Great hospitality. Thank you. Former President Donald Trump taking the stage at the National Association of Black Journalists convention, having a discussion with three journalists again at times heated, especially at the very top. The president seeming to get personal with Rachel Scott of ABC News, calling her disgraceful. There were jeers in the crowd when he went on a rant. Clearly upset about a question that she asked him. I think most notably, he also got personal with attack against Vice President Kamala Ha And I think one of the big headl that's going to come from this is a description of her that he used when he was asked if she was a D which is a claim that many of hi acolytes on Capitol Hill and elsewhere have made. He said that the vice president used to be In and turned black. He said, quote, Is she Indian or Somebody should look into that. He also went after her for failing a law exam, saying that she may not pass a cognitive test based on that. Also, a variety of falsehoods from the former president on things from immigration to ab A lot to dig into based on those And there was quite a lot of fact checking that was happening in real time from those journalists who were asking questions of him But it really was the first ques out of the gate. And I want to bring in Sara Sidn who is there in the room. We could hear a lot of the react Sara, on microphone there, I know it's probably even more pronounced in but it was Rachel Scott's questi which was a fair one and an accurate one, where she s to former President Trump, you have made false claims about former President Obama. You have attacked congresswomen black divas, black journalists. You had dinner with a white supr Now that you are asking black supporters to vote for you why should they trust you? And he went on to say, I don't think I've ever been ask I guess, a question like that in such a horrible manner. And then he attacked her and her news organization. Yeah. His response was the reason why this question has been asked because when a tough question like that is asked, his response is to attack the person who's making his ques And that's exactly what happened in front of this crowd here. And then it devolved from there from that question. Every time that Rachel asked him another question that was pointed or talked about some of the things that he had said, his response was to attack her. So, look, this went off the rails at the very beginning. But those questions are question that folks in the black communit as to whether or not they should be able to trust Don with some of the things he has said about, for example, President Obama questioning whether or not he was actually born in America. When he was born in Hawaii very and making that same question to some other members of Congress as well, people of color. But, you know, there were some questions that were asked about the econom that people here, you could hear the response in t And remember, again, this is a room full of journalis This is a room full of people who cover some of these issues in either their local community or on the national stage. And the entire room was packed with people to some of the questions. There was laughter to answer to the questi There were a couple of people who shouted out boos or who were trying to fact check in real time. There was a lot of meandering on the part of Donald Trump, but he was asked a lot of questi He was asked questions about Jan and whether or not he thinks that those who took part in attacking the 140 police officers who were should be pardoned because he has mentioned that he would pardon some of the Jan, the folks that are involved with the Capitol attack. And it was interesting, his response in some ways. He said, well, I don't I don't really see that he tried to pivot to other things like what happened in Minneapoli and the protests in Portland. And so a lot of the time he wasn't answering the question but he was asked several questio over and over and over again. And I think the one that that la that he was happy with, his answ one ask why. Here is Faulconer, who is with F when it comes to the economy and the fact that people are suf because of high inflation. Although inflation has started to drop in the economy by all economic indicators has has done better, people are still having a hard t with buying houses, buying groce and the like. But this did go off the rails th There's no other way to say it. His his attacks on the journalists asking the qu what did not go over well with this crowd? As you might imagine, was a room full of jour But people did listen intently to try to understand what his answers were to some of the questions that directly affect the black c