- We are actually in the midst of the likes of which we haven't People like to believe on a constant, but actually, and right now one of that's based on very A second is we're about robots and wearable mobile computers, which allows us to use in moments where we need - Generative AI represents a massive step forward and robotics and new both how we interact with machines and how machines will - When these things come together, it creates a whole new You could call it, and we - The future of computing won't be about apps or websites. It'll be about you and your imagination. It's an idea called the real-time internet and it could change everything. Stick around to learn how. This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding We've come to argodesign to speak with Jared Ficklin. And as a product designer and futurist, his job is to live with So we asked him to look and give us a peek at what - Those who've been following know that you can already or a short story or a screenplay with giving it just a few prompts, or it can generate images for you. It's actually more than that. It's capable of potentially of software in real-time. The real-time internet is a future where software experiences to whatever prompt you have given it. - Generative AI has with creepy hands in Soon, you won't need someone You can just tell your device and it'll write it for you on the fly. - You might say, &quot;Help me Generative AI will use a large model to assemble a application The same model can then all the books on your shelf. It can then reach out and figure out the values and the ages of them. It can understand what and it can even understand a color wheel. When you put that all together of the hundred million well, it can successfully lead you through a process of saying, &quot;Okay, do you wanna organize them by size, by date, by value, by color?&quot; You'll select one, it'll say, &quot;Okay, move them into this position,&quot; because it's all happening on your hands are free to And when you finish, that all this started with a prompt. Not only that, but when you finish, the whole app just goes away. It doesn't need to take up space on your desktop as some icon, 'cause you can reinvoke The data that was into your data marketplace So for instance, a couple &quot;Man, I have too many books. Hey, help me get rid It checks out that data, sees figures out an interface for and allows you to sell them. This is a different - The way we think of the internet has changed over time. Now, instead of largely static websites, we expect them to have dynamic content tailored specifically for us. - Now, it's getting entirely personal, in fact, almost quantum-like, meaning that when I go I see a webpage that was created for me in near real-time and you see a completely different page. They don't exist until we look at 'em, like Schrodinger's cat We jokingly call this There's a quantumness to it, right? - So right now, the information we see on the internet is What will it be like when the capabilities of the internet are also Will this mean the end when any function of the internet, even one that hasn't been thought of yet, is a simple prompt away? - This real-time internet and it's gonna be experienced It's gonna be as big of a sea change as 2007 when the iPhone was released and we all converted to as opposed to two-foot desktop computing. - This is a fundamental change in how we interact with technology, and that can be just as important as the capabilities of Many technologies are limited by the fact that their interfaces aren't great. - An interface is more than just delight or, you know, it's not hard to use. Interfaces also provide the guardrails and they surface what value a Back when we were in those and we all used DOS, a few key commands could And Windows, as a interface, that made that much harder, which meant that more use the computer without doing damage. When you're designing you really do need to think about where you are responsible to the user to make sure that this is a positive thing for their lives and humanity as well. 3D printing is currently It's a cottage industry because the interface is very complex. Even just going to a website and picking one to print out But we're about to be in a place where I could tell the printer, &quot;Print me a coffee cup It will show me four options where I can actually see I'll tap one and it'll print it out. At that point, that's an that Samsung, LG, who knows, and you'll have one of these sitting on your kitchen countertop and you'll be able to have a - Once again, &quot;Star Trek&quot; called it. - 'Tea. Earl gray, hot. Earl gray?' - This is the stuff of science fiction and we often think it's that holds it back from You can do that whole story It's the interface, it's the metaphor and the way we can interact with it that holds it back from wider adoption. And that's a part of the product story for computing that I play between the human and the computer. There's a pretty interesting story here about how computing deployed for humanity and product design intersected. - Consider the punch card. This is how humans used to interface with computers and program, binary expressed as holes in card stock. - At first, computing, in you had to actually behind the binary code. Then a layer was placed on top that turned it into a language. We being creatures who evolved this created a kind of computing that required the knowledge and it was this monastic pursuit of people who could understand that. - Using programming languages that could be written with a keyboard, the tiny, tiny fraction of people who could code in binary to a much larger group of people who were comfortable with Then we expanded the interface again with the mouse and the - Then we gave it the metaphor This happened with a piece of software we all know called Windows. And with this metaphor of and opening applications everyone who is a business how to use a computer, and it extended computing from to nearly half of the population - As the interfaces for computers evolved, each change meant more and more people could benefit from the advantages of automation and computing. And each time there was - Every time we have deployed a metaphor that removed friction and that the user could adoption has exploded. And I believe we're poised at this moment, due to a convergence of technology, to begin seeing a new computing metaphor that would that will operate in that are digital join And this will allow us to bring computing out of an immersive screen out into the physical And we're gonna have a new such as launch that, put using gesture, eye contact, voice, and certain control surfaces altogether. - Immersive interfaces like AR will mean that computing of even more people. Instead of just people and look at a screen like an these interfaces will be able to help the people actually - Well, then you get out into the field and you're actually and you're on the 57th floor and you're putting that girder into place, and you're like, &quot;How many Well, who wants to be 57 floors above the ground where they lose all Well, if you had a you actually could be with the design overlaid on it. Count one, two, three, four, five, six. &quot;Great, we're good. Let's keep going.&quot; - Artificial intelligence and new immersive interfaces are combining to make that is more human-centered - I just think we've As designers, we used to The uncanny valley was that the closer computing the more it got small details wrong. It either creeped out the user or helped them recognize The idea was that this was and the closer you got to it, the valley got very, very deep. This latest batch of Computers are now more They can put out more is capable of perceiving. This is why I think there's a reaction to this latest technological sea change that we should pause. So we may have to add a new obligation to our levels of responsibility We also may need to ask the question of, &quot;Does this technology amplify humanity or does it emulate humanity?&quot; We should ask these questions as we begin deploying technologies now. It's okay to love technology so long as you love - These technologies are here or will be very soon. Things that used to seem So it's hard not to get excited or nervous about the - As much as it seems from Skynet, we're really not. We're really in control and so long as we believe that, humanity can be a positive experience, where our purpose could and intellect as possible I think we're gonna land in a great place.