This is a story Of how New York's to snare the mafia's most Roy DeMeo. - What Henry Ford was Roy was to killing, he streamlined it, he organized it, and he killed with efficiency. In the 1970s, DeMeo embarked, unchecked, - And when Roy killed you, His victims as 200 people. - Roy DeMeo was as guilty Not only did he kill them, and defamed them in - People would be killed to accompany a target. - If you looked up the word his picture would be there. The big question is why didn't the police and the In 1975, detectives Organized Crime Squad It was a quiet Sunday in Queens. Here in an alleyway behind the police discovered the stuffed in various garbage bags. The victim was Andre Katz, - Andre Katz was a car thief, and he was supplying cars and he was supplying Katz came from what was then a dangerous part of town, the During the 1970s, Canarsie was the city's car crime epicenter. It was infamous for its body shops, garages, and salvage yards. Back then, many of the garages were so-called chop shops, specializing in cannibalizing but as the discovery somebody had been chopping No one would realize then that this gruesome in one of the most begun by one of the mafia's Roy DeMeo. Roy DeMeo's life could His mother had wanted him to be a doctor. An uncle was a big shot prosecutor. Another was a forensic scientist, but Roy DeMeo never showed such promise. After a start as a delivery boy and part-time apprentice butcher, he finally settled on a By the late 1960s, Roy DeMeo in his chosen career. He was a successful but DeMeo wanted more. He yearned to become a made man, a fully paid up member and soon he got what he had always wanted. One day he received a call. - Yeah. for a meeting. Yeah. The call It was the home of Nino Gaggi. Gaggi was a mafia captain in the infamous Gambino - He was brought into the and Nino Gaggi worked for Paul Castellano, who was the head of the Gambino family. The Gambinos of the five crime families that For DeMeo, it was an honor. A meeting with Nino Gaggi could be the first step on Gaggi placed DeMeo on the He was made an associate, working in partnership with to increase each other's wealth. DeMeo's business interests Loan sharking, gambling, theft. The honeymoon started well. DeMeo expanded his loan shark book and soon Roy DeMeo was doing he was making lots and lots of money, but DeMeo was more than just a loan shark. He was an entrepreneur. He also started to eye up like pornography. At this time, hardcore Some family bosses, including but DeMeo decided it was to pass up. Nino Gaggi turned a blind the money was excellent. To help him enforce his his own specialist team of criminals. It became known as the DeMeo crew. Each member had their It included Chris Harvey, A 24-year-old with a vicious temper and a love of fast cars and drugs. - Chris idolized Roy. He wanted to be Roy. He wanted to be in the mob. Freddy Danone, - Freddy was a racing car driver and was highly respected as a car thief. He could getaway with any Other crew and Anthony Center, who was so close, they were nicknamed the Twins. In all, it was a curious but they were united in - They looked at him as a father image. As he moved up the line, he'd be able to move them up the line. Roy was a father figure, The gang here on Flatlands Avenue, Brooklyn. Today it is a church, but at the time it was and was the DeMeo gang's clubhouse and base for operations. - Gemini Lounge was a Wasn't a disco, was a very quiet bar where a man coming home from The only exception to it was the fact that it was owned by Roy DeMeo. From his DeMeo started to expand - Roy was an entrepreneur. He looked at many ways of and he did it tremendously well. In 1972, he pulled for a career criminal. He moved into the world of finance and got himself elected of a small bank, the - Originally, Roy got to help launder money. But DeMeo didn't stop there. He saw an opportunity to steal - So what had happened is Roy but then took it a step further. DeMeo He plundered the bank's capital and got other directors to do the same. By the time he had By then, it had netted him and Nino Gaggi hundreds The collapse of a bank, even a small one, could have been a disaster for DeMeo, because the FBI and tax authorities started to investigate the but both Gaggi and DeMeo and nothing could be pinned on them. The result, they were free. - And they just walked away from it. - DeMeo had managed to Now he thought he could even murder. By 1973, Roy DeMeo was 32. His pornography business was doing well, but DeMeo felt it could do even better. Then one of his business associates, Paul Rothenberg was arrested. With Rothenberg under pressure, Roy DeMeo feared he in the industry, so he In July, 1973, he coolly and drove him to a quiet part of town. It was his very first kill. The execution changed him. He found that killing gave him power. He would now not hesitate to murder again whenever an obstacle presented itself. The opportunity to do due to DeMeo's increasing interest in another profitable business, car theft. The DeMeo crew was becoming - They had a highly set up organization of 17 to 20 car thieves a night. In New York, there was huge amounts of money to be made. A car was often worth more for spares than as a running vehicle, - And everybody had their order. Everybody knew their assignment. Cars were stolen by his crew, and either given new identities or broken down in the Canarsie chop shops. - They were not just to They knew exactly what kind - Somebody would want a Jaguar, somebody would want a Cadillac, somebody would want a Porsche. They would steal on order, the model, the year, Any luxury car you need So what they started to do then was chop them up and sell the parts. I mean, it was a very lucrative business. It was at that local car, criminal Andre Katz got into - Andre got pinched for narcotics, and they were afraid he Fearing he consulted his mentor, Nino Gaggi. Any ways, I don't know of- - So after having a meeting Nino Gaggi, the order came DeMeo Katz was lured by a female - He was grabbed by them and they put a noose around his head and dragged him into a car. - Then DeMeo and his crew took Katz to the Pantry Pride Meat market in Queens, but this time, DeMeo Inspired by the surroundings, as an apprentice butcher to good use. That's how Andre Katz ended up in pieces in several garbage bags. - The next thing you see is the headlines, is of dismembered body found and what a bum thought was a leg of lamb was actually Andre's They wrapped it all up and bunch of paper, and it was neatly placed behind Pantry Pride. - In fact, DeMeo had made a mistake. The body parts were found because the rubbish wasn't but yet again, DeMeo got away with it. The 1975 police investigation failed to discover the gang's involvement. No witnesses came forward. No incriminating evidence was found. For retired homicide, the reason was because Katz - If it's a store owner and but when an organized there is not that much outcry. There's not that much interest that the other detectives place and I viewed this as and I always went to my boss and sometimes I had to and knees to beg 'em, is to Now, Roy for this way of killing. - Roy DeMeo was probably uncaring, low lives - Dismemberment was but for DeMeo, it now - He had no respect for human life. He had no respect for If you looked up the word his picture would be there. DeMeo found that anyone could be made to disappear. - They would cut the body neatly wrap the body, and the parts were placed in dumpsters. The dumpsters were emptied, and the contents taken to the immense Fountain Avenue dump in Brooklyn. - All of the garbage went to that dump - And the Fountain Avenue designated for meat byproducts, and it had to be covered and the bulldozers covered everything. - So if you dump something there, you're not gonna find it ever, ever, ever and so that's why he used it. More and more - Now, we had a number of and we never found 'em. Here was a group of men and the bodies were never found. Today the dump has long since been filled and landscaped. There is little clues DeMeo sent there. As well as using the dump, the crew also disposed of - They just dumped a lot of the bodies in the Atlantic Ocean too. They cut the bodies up, and dumped them off a boat DeMeo became more He was getting so proficient Paul Castellano came calling He had found out that his son-in-law was cheating on his daughter. - One of the bodies was Paul and she had a miscarriage because she caught him cheating on her and Paul had the male Again, the Amazingly, despite all the disappearances, the police department except one person, Detective Joe Wendling. First Wendling, and then another colleague in auto crimes, John All these murders were linked - I developed an informant that said, look at the amount of car I think they're cutting them up, and that's why we're not finding him. But despite his Few shared Wendling's enthusiasm In fact, the forces of law Financial mismanagement was frozen, morale was low and the public's faith in the police department The Auto Crimes Unit was overstretched and the FBI were not So these were great times for DeMeo. With nothing to stop him, business boomed. 77,000 cars were stolen in - No area in the country It affects everybody in the country. The big metropolitan areas, however, are suffering the most For DeMeo, - Oh, it was a tremendous in New York, and it was a found with skeletons of cars in them. However, his own way. Another law enforcement unit was looking at his crews meetings It was a separate outfit, The of the Queen's District Attorney's office and Detective Kenny McCabe. - Kenny was the intelligence He maintained all the He covers all the funerals. He covers all the weddings, and he has folders upon Then Joe Wendling, did what the wider law were failing to do. They started comparing notes. Convinced DeMeo was involved in murder, the men started surveillance, but they could only do What had escaped them though, was that DeMeo had just In 1977, Roy DeMeo got He became a fully paid up mobster and was formally inducted - There was two ways of You become an earner or You kill somebody or Roy DeMeo working full-time for capo, Nino Gaggi. It was a huge moment in DeMeo's life and the realization of a dream. So DeMeo and his crew were over the moon. With this elation came more murders. It was going so well, the crew for any paying customer. It was murder for hire, what became known as the murder machine. - Roy decided to expand not just killing enemies, but He'd take in any contract, and that would be the That's what Roy did, 1979 was a high point for the DeMeo murder machine. To cope with demand, the and dismemberments in house. Now, most hits were done in using the well-practiced method. - Now, behind the Gemini rented by a guy named Joseph Gugliamo. They would lure their victims to the place and they would bring them in. The victim would be shot in the head by Roy DeMeo and the head swiftly wrapped in a towel. Chris Rosenberg would stab to stop the bleeding. Then the body would be left - They brought him into the Then they cut the body up and put all the parts After they got done cutting the body up and draining the blood they all sat down with Roy DeMeo and they ordered a pizza and they were eating the that's how despicable these people were. After a while, became a sadistic ritual. - There was no need to do this. This was just, how would I mean, mob hits normally Why go to that length when they could just put a bullet in his head They did it just to be vicious, and that was DeMeo's doing, Despite killing Roy DeMeo could now do So he got involved in a major plan to export stolen cars to Kuwait. He was now an international criminal. Needless to say, several people were made to disappear in the process. But the plan netted him In no time orders for 5,000 via his contact in Kuwait. As a sideline, DeMeo was getting deeper into cocaine deals as well. Drugs were frowned upon by Paul Castellano as they tended to attract Nevertheless, mainly through coke deals came thick and fast. In early 1979, Rosenberg went of a group of Cubans. - Chris Rosenberg goes down to Florida, then it goes to a and they're gonna be - On his return to New York, which would have massive The Cubans came to deliver the drugs. - They come up to New Him being the entrepreneur that he is, says, &quot;Heck, I'm not gonna pay And he kills them, he winds The Cuban's by Rosenberg's actions. - When Roy found out this, he says, &quot;They're gonna and he says, &quot;They're gonna kill you.&quot; And he said, &quot;What name did you use?&quot; And he says, &quot;I went by Chris DeMeo.&quot; Roy says, &quot;My God, my family's dead. They're gonna come up here Rosenberg's killings risked an all-out Cuban In recompense, the Cubans demanded a scalp in what became known as the Cuban crisis. So DeMeo decided to offer up a sacrifice, his friend, Chris Rosenberg. - So he decides Chris has to go. They stabbed Chris, he shoots Chris. They had to they had kept their part of the deal. So DeMeo could not make he needed a stunt. - Chris can't be dismembered. Chris has to be left, so he's gonna make front page headlines. They parked him on Floyd Bennett put a nine millimeter between his legs and then machine-gunned in the car. And yes it did, it made With Rosenberg and he remained popular with Paul Castellano, because - Roy, wasn't gonna get killed, because Pauly needed his guns. DeMeo and his men were and this added power to Pauly. Nobody would make a move on Pauly, so that's how important However, the Cuban crisis did leave a mark on DeMeo. He became paranoid the This caused him to make a major mistake. He mistook an 18-year-old vacuum salesman for a Cuban assassin. - Roy was so nervous about it, that a poor Electrolux salesman going around to the houses in Massapequa comes up to his house to sell him a vacuum cleaner. They chased this poor individual and killed this guy and then disappeared. Despite the law enforcement drew a blank. No witnesses dared come forward, but this time the Gambino family boss, Paul Castellano, started to get concerned DeMeo was drawing too much attention. Then in late 1979, Castellano in his family, so he instructed Nino Gaggi and Roy DeMeo to make the hit, - And the order was sent and you do it. So Nino trusted his right So they set up a meeting They had them in the car, this is not going to turn out well. A local off-duty and gave chase. - A sergeant trying to raise driving a cab sees the and winds up at a big shootout. Nino gets shot, Roy escapes. The simple and shootout involving a policeman was something no one could ignore. So at last, the investigators between DeMeo and his crew, between car crime and the and between Nino and Then the FBI made a key breakthrough. In 1980, a customs spotted a consignment of It appeared the cars had been stolen and given new registration documents. The intelligence quickly The FBI raided it to find ready to be exported by DeMeo to Kuwait. A fingerprint at the scene - It just showed you Here was a mafia family, not only selling stolen cars in Brooklyn, but shipping 'em out to another country. I mean, this was unheard of. This now became an international case. It became very interesting to everybody, and everybody wanted a piece of the cake. By 1982, was stepped up. A new task force moved into offices at Foley Square, New York to take over the running of the case. It was headed by top shot - Walter is such a total attorney. - And this guy, Walter Mack, is one of the finest without any question. I mean, the guy had guts and he's the one who put - The man that just with his full soul. Mack's task was to bring all the crime agencies - The team was put together of federal, state, local, The team soon - We sat down, we sparked and we asked Walter to if he took this case, he Walter Mack did and soon it became very as a large scale car crime case was turning into something even bigger. - The police department at the time had brought an auto crime case over to us, really wasn't considered a mafia case, although there was some expectation that the mafia would emerge, it was pretty much an auto crime case. As Mack and the Roy DeMeo's murder machine emerged. - And what happened in the was an extraordinary combination who felt strongly that the had evaded responsibility and they were looking for of perhaps drawing it all together. - Slowly and surely, Mack and his team built the case against DeMeo This time they were determined they would not have elude them. - It was a commitment to the husbands, the wives, that it was time to bring and that's what kept them going. One tactic they to see if he would crack. Soon they had something a major breakthrough. One day the phone rang. A new informer calling himself only Harry, professed to knowing all Harry was Vito Arena, an - We take him into with nobody there except and we sit him down and We want all the information and the homicides. Arena began to - Vito Arena sits us down and fills us in on every homicide they did and how they did them and He says, the easiest part of the body to chop up is the head. The head snaps off like a pencil, and we're like in awe of this guy. We never heard anything and he tells us all about Roy DeMeo. To prove his the informant pointed the Joe Scorney. His body was found just in a barrel of cement - We find the body was all skeletal now, and there's the Dungaree and the wallet in his jacket he had his dentist's name in the wallet, which gave us the ID in about an hour. As a result, Joe Wendling was sent to the and to offer him a deal to - They knew Roy was so many killings, that of information to the police. Roy DeMeo Instead, Joe Wendling found it was DeMeo who was offering him a deal. - Roy said, &quot;You're can take me down. You guys, you're old timers. Why do you wanna get involved in it? A million dollars, Swiss gimme the format and go live like a king.&quot; I turned around to Roy and I said, &quot;I'd sooner take you outta I said, &quot;But come with us He said, &quot;I'm a good soldier. I'm in the mob, and when they call me, I'll go like a good soldier.&quot; With the and evidence building up, it seemed like it was before DeMeo would be in court, then a disaster that risked As the trial date approached, The police searched for DeMeo. Informants said he was seen on and heavily armed. Then the police took a call. Roy DeMeo, the ruthless in the boot of his Cadillac. - I went down there, when there was Roy frozen to a chandelier, and I said, man, what a tribute to us. They killed him. They killed this man who was His Cadillac car behind the Varuna Boat Club in Brooklyn. - Roy DeMeo died the way he lived as a street rat, in a fetal There was no sympathy or from anybody in law The obvious question was who might have done it? For the law enforcement Paul Castellano was the - Roy DeMeo was killed because Paul Castellano They realized we were getting and they felt that if we and incarcerate him and he would've brought the whole empire down. Castellano even though he was dead, DeMeo had left plenty evidence that would bring Soon after, the task force armed with a search warrant. - We call our people in and and in the drains we found the blood, blood never goes away, contrary to what you If blood is in pipes, in a wall, the blood will remain there So we were able to do that and we were able to match and the criminals in the whole routine, that's how we made our case. This evidence and Castellano henchman, Nino Gaggi. The case evolved into US versus Gaggi, but Paul Castellano wasn't safe either. He, too was called to face a trial. As the jury took a two week Castellano headed out for a He was cut down by unknown gunmen, - So it was a setup. They bring him up there as he is getting out of his car. - Pauly got whacked as a because of the fact we all the top soldiers, this With Castellano gone, in a final trial, the and their capo, Nino Gaggi stood trial for the remaining murders, - Was not some case that done in a week, it was talking to informers, and with the hard work of Walter Mack. In the end, the worst killer the mafia ever produced, not only a crime family in disarray, but also something more chilling. Only a fraction of his The truth is we will never - Roy bragged about 150 individuals, and I would say we're is probably an accurate number. I think Roy was extremely in protecting his turf. We had people calling us, that disappeared, who, you or stuff like that, you know? And as to which we had no information. - As far as giving victims How can you ever accomplish that? I'm of the school thinking that there is no such thing as closure for the families of victims. Roy DeMeo was as guilty of serial killing as any serial killer. Not only did he kill them, and defamed them and This was a vicious evil human being, if you could call him a human being, I wouldn't even call him that. In missing to stop DeMeo, the law enforcement machine must take its share of the blame, but that same law enforcement machine did eventually come together. Yet the overriding question remains, could it have done so for the families of his victims?