All right, we're all finished up here. It's only quickly. This is Beau, the owner of SquareShed, and his team built within the space of a few builder. We are based out of Fargo, North Dakota, and open a second location in North Carolina. He through his process and give some insight business. Some of these tips will save you hours The main customer that we service would be a speaking, if you have a fenced-in yard, you a lot of hassle and headache for the homeowner. prep work. It's essential for the process: all efficient setup without damaging the lawn or their shop to ensure top quality, and everything The shed location is pre-chosen it's next to an existing shed. Beau is using a square every time. The shed will be 10 shed. By applying Pythagoras' Theorem, we Since we know the dimension of the which is 187 1/2 in. With two tape measures, diagonally. Where the tapes cross is the exact You can repeat this for the opposite corner to great video explaining this in more detail, which Using a pre-modified TuffBlock, Beau blue chalk to finalize the layout of each corner. So here I am, raking a little bit of the some off. Now I'm taking our modified hand tamper, leveled off, and given another couple of hits block and my [Music] level, and we're good to go. and adding aggregate under the block will the topsoil under the block completely, but Beau's a compacted surface. It's important to make you can do that by simply adjusting the aggregate The outer frame is pre-cut to the 10 fastened together with a nail gun. and it's a great tool for leveling especially if you're a solo DIYer. Once the the height required for the 4 x 4 posts and the highest point. These are then inserted Okay, so now that we've got the foundation level yard. We don't usually deal with you can see the 4 x 4s we cut for this one were 8 these ones are a little bit over 10 in in this little area. And that's why TuffBlocks we'd have, you know, four or five blocks to So now I'm going to be putting in some big leg the corners. We like to put four legs to hold the cut to length and then secured so the with an additional TuffBlock Here, they're installing duckbill earth anchors You simply hammer them into the ground and To check the deck is completely square, you can measurements should be equal. Beau gives the okay, When building with the floating foundation method, winds. The joists are delivered straight to and then measurements are taken every 16 earth anchor on the opposite corner of the working in tandem to secure the You want to make sure the joists sit flush and Once the frame is complete, Advantech which is pre-cut to length. These panels slot so there are zero gaps in the floor. and incredibly strong, which is great The main key aspects of TuffBlocks that The first is the efficiency at which we can we can get a shed base built and leveled off in versus with cement blocks, you're talking cutting off that half hour, especially at the The second aspect is that we can different yards, and slopes. This yard so it's not a great example, but some have a big the base using TuffBlocks. It would be almost And the third aspect I like about TuffBlocks is Using TuffBlocks is much easier to train my were to try to use cement blocks. It's a lot Beau has modified this dolly, which allows them to all they require is a 24-in gate to get on-site temporarily to keep them in place, starting they'll add a few more just to be sure. The second pre-built into it. Once the double top plate is The final wall is attached, and once fastened So here we are. Now we've got the walls set in shop space. It's a lot easier and more efficient do it faster with better quality control. So we on setting up the roof trusses, and then after The roof trusses are pre-cut in the shop spaced at 24 in on-center with OSB on top. and provide strong support, which is very snow or high winds. The eave is installed securely down with a long lag screw onto the the roof sheathing can be laid down, which is Now it's on to the roof rake and eave, which from the shed. Excess material is removed, allowing the eave to be moved into place. the shed so it's completely flush to the with some lag screws. They also install a shed roofs by directing water away from the Here, they're installing a heavy-duty ramp, if you have a ride-on mower or heavy-duty There are a bunch of other upgrades you can These include custom paint colors, extra tall and extra windows and doors. Basically, Beau can likely sort, so you get a shed Beau has all the details on his website, want to know the specifics. A touch of paint a detailed checklist to ensure every part of close attention to every detail. VB Shield providing an extra level of waterproofing and This is another custom choice where and most homeowners go with a Here, they're cutting a hole for a gable and are great for providing ventilation. Now ahead of time, so they know exactly where and once there's enough space, use a cordless finishing by tidying up the edges. Silicone slotted in with trim added around the edges. water out. Window shutters are an optional There are some final touches to finish fastening the door securely, adding the remaining which comes with everything. And all that's left is to clean up and pack damage done to the lawn or the property, and the All right, we're all finished up so we got this shed done pretty quickly--10 x to take a look at things. He was very happy, thanks again to TuffBlocks because it wouldn't didn't have a good foundation and a good system Thanks for watching! We hope you found this a custom shed, reach out to his team at we'll catch you on the next one.