Jiaxiang Shuangyi Shovel Making Factory was established in 2008 and is located in Jiaxiang County, Shandong, China. It has specialized in producing shovels for more than 20 years and can process and produce 6,000 shovels a day. Today I will introduce to you how shovels are produced, including the production of shovel heads and wooden handles. Let's work together Take a look: Iron shovels use manganese steel as raw material. The main components of manganese steel are iron and manganese. Manganese improves the mechanical properties of the shovel such as strength, hardness, wear resistance and toughness. First, uncoil the manganese steel and cut it into small pieces. Then according to the size of the iron wire Punch the shovel pieces into different styles. Place the processed shovel pieces into a transmission heating furnace and heat them at high temperature. Use a punch to stamp the shovel's trademark. Use a punch to press out the shape and angle of the shovel . Bend the back side of the stamped shovel head. Bend it into a cylindrical shape so that it can be connected with the wooden handle later. Salt bath quenching can improve the wear resistance, flexibility and strength of the shovel product. Wash with water. Put the blank into the barrel and rotate it for 10-12 hours to remove the surface oxide scale. After the polishing is completed, it is then polished, high-frequency inductively heated, and edged. The spraying workshop is soaked in paint, dried , and labeled . The wooden handles of the shovels are packaged and manufactured. The raw materials for the wooden handles are imported. Wood workers use electric saws to saw the logs into small sections , and then use the sawing machine to divide the logs into boards . Divide the board into small wooden strips. Put the wooden strips into a machine and polish them into wooden handles. Let them dry naturally for four to five days to make the wooden handles more flexible . Put the air-dried wooden handles into a machine and cut off the excess length at both ends to make the wooden handles longer. Grind both ends of the wooden handle uniformly and sharpen them to connect with the shovel head. Sand them to remove burrs to make the wooden handles smoother. Then apply primer, sand them, paint them, let them dry, and then pack them into bags. Pingdingshan Hujiang Ceramics Co., Ltd. is located in China. Pingdingshan, Henan Province was established in 2009. It is a company specializing in the production of architectural ceramics. It mainly produces glazed ceramic tiles. Today I will show you the production process of ceramic tiles. Are you ready? Raw materials such as mud, sand, stone powder and other materials are transported to the ball mill through the belt and passed through the ball mill. The rotation causes the sand mud and ball stones to rub, squeeze, and impact each other to achieve the refinement process. The slurry after ball milling is passed through iron removal rods and screens to remove iron impurities and coarse particles. The slurry is mixed with high-temperature smoke in the spray drying tower. The air undergoes heat exchange and evaporates the water into granular powder with a moisture content of 5-6%. The powder is stamped into block bricks by a brick press. The green bricks with a moisture content of 5-6% are transformed into a granular powder with a moisture content of 5-6% through a roller conveyor kiln. The dry blank with a moisture content of less than 1% is made into a dry blank to enhance its strength. The kiln is 500 meters long and has a total of 208 sections. The bottom glaze and top glaze are poured on the surface of the dry blank to play a decorative and protective role. In the printing workshop, the glazed blank is The surface of the body is printed with a certain pattern and pattern. The printed bricks are put into the kiln again and fired into porcelain in a high-temperature kiln (usually around 1200degC). The process of vitrification into porcelain is then fired in the kiln. The semi-finished products that come out pass through the edge grinding line to reach the final standard-compliant finished product. The finished product is packed by the automatic packaging machine. The palletizer stacks the packaged finished products neatly and ships the packaged products. Henan Zhongwei Xintang Down Co., Ltd. was established in 2019 and is located in Taiqian County, Henan Province, China is a manufacturer specializing in the production and sales of down and down products. The company has built 11 high-tech intelligent workshops and has 20 3000-type modern double-machine down washing production lines. Today we will take a look at the production process of down to produce the raw wool of down. The raw wool is placed in the washing equipment and after multiple washings, the raw wool is dehydrated, dried , cooled and dusted in a multi-chamber sorting machine, which is used to extract the raw down after down extraction. It needs to be washed, separated and other operations again to achieve a higher level. of purity. Samples of finished down are taken here and the purity of the down is calculated. Henan Xinqi Trademark Materials Co., Ltd. was established in 2015 in Zhengzhou City, Henan Province. The factory covers an area of 30 acres. It is a source of production, sales and printing of self-adhesive label raw materials. The factory has a daily output of 10W Square self-adhesive label paper is a common sticker material in life, such as logistics express delivery orders, commodity labels, etc. It is widely used in various fields of life. Self-adhesive labels are composed of three parts: surface paper, adhesive, and bottom paper. The types include oil-based, water-based and hot-melt. Today, let's take a look at how water-based pressure-sensitive adhesive and hot-melt pressure-sensitive adhesive self-adhesive labels are produced. Let's take a look at it. First, let's take a look at the water-based pressure-sensitive adhesive coating production line. First, the backing paper is rolled and coated with glue. The function of the backing paper is to protect the adhesive on the back of the surface material and support the surface material so that it can be die-cut, waste discharged, and labeled on the labeling machine. Multiple materials are mixed and adjusted to a certain viscosity of glue. Coated on the base paper, the sensor collects process parameters in real time and automatically adjusts key parameters such as coating speed and coating pressure to ensure the quality and stability of the product. After the glue is applied, it enters the drying system to quickly discharge the moisture from the glue layer. After the glue is applied, the base paper is dried. The hot melt pressure-sensitive adhesive coating production line for bonding paper and facial paper, rolling and packaging. The hot melt adhesive melts into a liquid state at high temperature and is coated on the tape . Then it solidifies quickly during the cooling process to form an adhesive layer, thereby making the base paper and facial paper The high-speed self-adhesive slitting machine for bonding divides large rolls of raw materials into small rolls, automatically corrects the deviation to prevent the material from going astray, slits with a circular knife to make it smooth and without burrs, and universal shaft rewinds and unloads the material on one side according to market demand. Die-cutting and segmentation into different shapes. and size labels according to different customer needs. The raw materials can also be printed, die-cut and divided into colored labels . &quot; Du &quot; China Let's take a look. Designers design wigs of various shapes according to market demand and produce production specifications. Then workers cut the chemical fibers to the required length according to the drawings and weigh them. Workers comb the hair neatly with a huge steel-toothed comb . Workers put the combing scale on It is very important for good hair to be arranged in one line. It can effectively prevent the wig from falling off. Divide the entire hair into the required length in equal proportions. In order to increase the fluffiness of the hair, it is generally concentrated. Insert the hair on the bangs and the top of the head according to the requirements of the drawing. Place the divided hairsprings on a drying rod with appropriate curvature. Then put the drying rod into the oven and bake it for 90 minutes at a constant temperature of 88 degrees Celsius. Take it out and unpack it. The hair that comes out in this way will not be easily deformed. Sew the baked wig piece on the wig cover and sew it for quality inspection. Then do the hairstyle and take care of it. Then pack it after quality inspection.