O Allah, I pray for a smooth journey and hassle free exit from Kuwait. Assalam Alekum and Good Morning Everyone from Kuwait. It's our last day in Kuwait. I'm quite excited because if everything goes according to the plan, I'll be in Dammam Saudi Arabia tonight. Dammam is almost 400 km from here. I have no idea how long it will take at the border. Our ride till the border will be approximately 1.5 hour long. And after the border crossing, it will be another 300 km or so. I think if nothing goes wrong at the border, we'll be at the border by evening. Whatever happens, you guys will know everything. Right now we are sitting at the breakfast table. And the breakfast is too good. The food is so much in plenty that it took me almost 10 minutes to decide what to eat. And I ended with the same breakfast that I take everyday, irrespective of which hotel I'm staying in. You can have a look. But there's one thing extra ... Please excuse this egg for being too excited. So this is the extra item. We have this in Germany as well but I'm not sure what it is called. But other than that, everything else is the same such as honey and butter. Our cappuccino has arrived. Thank you so much. A glass of orange juice. I thought of keeping our traditional combination of breakfast. Having more choice doesn't mean you can eat more. Let's finish it and leave. That's Amir's motorcycle and there he is. Umer and Areeb are over there. Umer is from Mumbai, Areeb is from Baroda and Amir is from Mirpur. Shall we? Room key? It's inside. Thank you Shoaib. Shoaib arranged my stay in here although I told him that I'm not the Hilton guy. Thanks very much. He's Anupam. His brother Abhinav saw my story on Instagram yesterday. Thanks Abhinav. Bismillah ... In the name of Allah. * Prayer for the journey * May Allah makes this a memorable day for all of us. It's gonna be a long ride today but I'm really excited. We Are Going To Saudi Arabia Today .. !!! Never thought about going to Saudia on motorcycle. But now that we have decided, God willing it's gonna happen today. Our route today is a bit long and a little dangerous. I have been told that in Saudi, cars pass by you as if they are jets. There you need to be on your guard. Before we cross the border, we are gonna make a small stop at a place called Al-Khiran islands. I think we can get through this side. I'll get this much room for sure. I'm gonna show you Al-Khiran Islands today. I'll get some drone shots for sure if I get the permission. I'm told that it's not an issue there. We are now on the highway that will take us straight to our destination. First Al-Khiran and then the border. I'm not having the usual anxiety and fear associated with border crossings. I have a feeling that it's gonna be okay. But you never know what may happen. I just pray to Allah for a smooth crossing. I'm good for now but my heart will start racing as we get close to the border. I don't know why Areeb is driving too slow today. He owns a 1200R. You can see oil refineries and factories towards my left side. Not just the left, but you can see the same things on my right side too. That's all you are gonna see in this area. I'm not sure if my GoPro is capturing that. As long as you leave an urban region, like when I was coming from the Iraqi side, I could see some farms. Of course there were oil factories. Over here, that's all that you can find on both sides of the road. We have just left the highway and on our way to Al-Khiran. I think that's why we have left the highway. But I don't know the exact location. My fellow riders are leading our formation. Anyway we are going towards the beach. Sea City is where we are going. It's gonna be a short trip as we don't want to spend too much time there. I wanted to see it for myself and to show you all. The boats mean that we are close to the beach. It has to be somewhere nearby. O ... A speed bump. Gladly it was not as lethal as the ones in Iran or Iraq. Wow ... Love that turquoise color of water. I took some drone shots for about 15 minutes or so. I think we have great footage. These are man made islands. We didn't go too far because it's quite windy out here. My drone, Air 2S, was giving me warnings. Before this one, I had Mavic 2 Pro which was a little heavier. In order to capture all of the islands, I needed to take the drone as high as 400 meters. These are similar to the Palm Islands in Dubai. They have tried to follow a similar design here. At least it looked quite similar on Google. Heading to the border now which is 20 km from here. We hope to be there in next 15 - 20 minutes. You can say that it's a small town. I think all the life here is because of the Petrol industry. I didn't see too many people though. The resort was closed as well. May be it's busier over weekends. Back on highway for the remaining part of our ride in Kuwait. Goodbye Al-Khiran city. We will visit it again if we get another chance in the future. Areeb is making a video. The roads on this side have been amazing so far. One can comfortably go as fast as 120 km / h. And it's not too crowded. You can say that I'm going above a 100 km / h in the slow lane and I'm not worried by getting overtaken by some fast car. There are another couple of lanes so any car going faster than me can use those lanes. I'm gonna stay in this lane and the speed is okay. Quite comfortable. It's very windy and it is creating extra pressure on my helmet. The camera attached to the helmet makes it heavier. And then the wind is causing a great drag. So we don't need to get extra ambitious. We have almost reached the border. I can see the sign board saying 'State of Kuwait'. I think we have left the village behind and we are at the border now. I can also see the border on my navigation. State of Kuwait Lets stop here and bid farewell to our friends here. Because they can't go in with me. That's it, then. You guys can't go in with me, right? Let me thank all of you brothers. Thanks very much to you, Abrar. You guys were great hosts. Don't have words to appreciate you enough. I didn't know anyone here but you guys took great care of me. I mean everyone that I met in Kuwait was so nice. Thanks to all those great people. Very soon, we are gonna be crossing this border. I think it's gonna take an hour before you can reach all homes. We are gonna stay here until you cross that point. Alright. The Customs are here or are they at another point. No that comes later. Okay. Alright. Okay, then. Allah Hafiz. Let's go. Bismillah ... Saying the name of Lord before next step. Let him go first. O Allah, I pray for a smooth journey and hassle free exit from Kuwait. Entering the border. Assalam Alekum You wanna see the passport? No. Okay, thanks. He asked me if I had my passport. That's Passport Control for Females only. What about men ... And that's Customs. The passport guys are over there. It's my lane sir. Never mind. Keep going. Can't seem to find the Passport Control but the Customs guys are here. Let's see what they say. Assalam Alekum. I'm a tourist. Show your ID. I'm traveling to Saudi Arabia. Just a second. This is my passport and visa. Have a look at the visa and passport. These cups are to keep the evil eye off. I need to show them the documents of my motorcycle. I think this was the letter that I got ... And here's Carnet. These are all the documents that I have. I came from Germany. Okay. No problem. Does he need to see this one ... Not the Customs one. This one? I thought he was asking for the Customs letter. These are all the documents that I have. So, I came from Germany ... Details of my entry .... I was given that paper, on the Iraq - Kuwait border. That's all I have. You came to Kuwait on this motorcycle? Yes. Yes. I came from Germany on this motorcycle. That's the Carnet. This is nothing. I need the same as this one. I don't have this one. Go inside. Ok. He told me to take me to the other office. Let me put all the documents back inside. I think they have their GCC cards. Let's park it here and go inside. I'm not gonna use the camera inside, although this officer didn't ask me to turn it off. However, I'll share all the information that I get. So .. our Customs formalities have been taken care of. Took almost half an hour. But the officers were really nice. They processed everything very swiftly. Very hospitable people as they gave me tea / coffee. Heading over to the Immigration now. They just put an exit stamp on my Carnet and that's it. Nothing else. But yes, they did have a look at my other documents such as passport and visa. And then they gave me an exit on the same Carnet that I used to enter. Now these are the passport guys. I'm gonna show them my passport. O they are over there. Assalam Alekum. Passport and Visa. Do you have a visa? That's the visa. For Kuwait? For Saudi? No. For Kuwait. No. No. It's that paper. That's it? Exit? No. Ok. Thanks. Why didn't it start normally? Looks like the service time is approaching. They have taken back my visa; the copy that they gave me. They didn't ask anything else. As you saw; it's all recorded. I think this is gonna be the last check post. They have given me two slips. They'll be submitted here and that's it. These are the two slips. So we are cleared from here. They asked me to remove my helmet to confirm it was me. Bye Kuwait. It was nice meeting you. I'll say it once more. Thank you so much to all the people who helped me out here. And to those who came to see me. Thank you all. We are now on our way to the Saudi border. It must be over there somewhere. Lets see how much time it takes on that side. Although entering Kuwait did take some time ... But the exit only took 45 minutes. One of the best border crossings ever. After Europe, I mean. Because there are no border crossings there. Turkish border crossing is also good. After that, every border has some issues. However, in Pakistan, they really take care of you. I got so much volunteer help there. So that was another pleasant experience. In Iran and Iraq, it's really a mess. You get crazy finding directions there. The system here is really well managed. Just keep moving along the line. Follow protocols. And that's it. Should we get through this side? &quot;Welcome to Kingdom of Saudi Arabia&quot; Assalam Alekum Saudi Arabia ... I feel really excited. Thanks to Allah, who gave this opportunity to come to this land on motorcycle. We are crossing this border on motorcycle. For many people this is a routine task. For someone like me, it's a big achievement. For me, it is. I don't know how others feel about it. Thank you Allah. I hope it's gonna be a smooth ride from hereon. The first board that I see here is the Customs board. Have to go there first. I think there are many Pakistanis who work here. Passports I have an e-visa. So we'll present our e-visa here. However I do have a hard copy if they ask for one. So there's only one person in the terminal who is checking both sides. That's why it's taking so much time. Assalam Alekum. Visa. Okay. Thanks. I think there's some office back there. We need to go to that office. So ... It only took 10 minutes here. He has given me the entry stamp. We don't have to wait in the line now as the Passport has been taken care of. So we'll just leave from here. Or we could ask them. Yes. Thanks. Now comes the Customs. For Customs, we'll have to go to some office. So I'm thinking about parking the motorcycle here. Otherwise, I'll be doing the same thing but after waiting for half an hour in the line. Assalam Alekum Tourist from Germany. Paper? Carnet? Here it is. Visa entrance. So he needs to see some papers. Do you have any paper from Customs Kuwait? Customs Kuwait? No. O Yes. It's here. Customs Kuwait. He's coming this way. He asked me to park it on the left side. Manager will come and attend us. Time to remove helmet. More details, later. We have been cleared by the Customs. They have just given me this slip. They didn't do anything with the Carnet. That's it. They told me that with this paper I could go anywhere in GCC. Well I'm not so sure of that. Anyway .... let's get going. Didn't take much time here. Hardly 45 minutes. At first, they didn't understand me and asked for some paper from the Customs Kuwait. Well, they did give me a paper like this ... but they took it from me at the last check post. It's VAT. Not applicable to us. That's for Customs clearance, I think. We are not bringing anything. Lets see how much more time it takes. Up to now, it has been a very smooth procedure. So they have taken it from me here. I did take a picture of that. Bismillah ... Abrar? Yes. Yes. Abrar. Thanks. 'Are you Abrar?' I have memorized this verse from Quran and recite it for anyone who doesn't understand my name. And one of the officers told me that Abrar is a female name in this part of the world. He was a nice guy. He told me that his sister's name is also Abrar. There was on guy who could speak English so he helped me with the whole procedure. He gave me his phone number and told me that he is coming to Riyadh on Thursday. He has offered me his help. So we are out? That's it? Welcome to Saudi Arabia. I'm still checking through side mirrors if someone's calling me from behind. I mean we'll go if we are called. Everything is clear. Masha Allah. That went rather well. It's 2:16 pm. So how long did it take here? Not more than 3 hours ... total ... including both sides. It was less than 3 hours. I think it's 2 hours. You can say that it's one hour each side. We are finally through. That's a super market. We don't need anything from the super market right now. I'll need an internet sim card as I don't have internet right now. I think I'll get it from Khafji. He told me that I can use my ID number to buy anything from anywhere. Khafji is 10 kilometers from here. So lets keep going. We'll take a break at Khafji. This road goes straight towards city center. Corniche is the road that runs along the beach. It's also called corniche in Iran and Iraq. Let's take this opportunity to get some money from this ATM. I might need them. Although my card works everywhere but it's always good to have some cash. Not gonna show you my pin code. I have withdrawn 500 riyals. Hope that's gonna be enough for now. I think it's close to 100 dollars. I think 1 dollar is 4.5 SAR. Saudi Arabian Riyal Yes, it's Riyal. There are 2 50SAR bills and the rest are 100SAR. Bismillah ... In the name of Allah We have taken a sim card. The process to get a sim card was really easy. Hardly took me 15 minutes. He has also activated unlimited social media package for me. But it was quite expensive. Almost a 100 SAR. I think that's close to 40 dollars. I have to upload videos for you all .. He told me it had unlimited YouTube for 1 month. I'm not sure if includes upload as well. Anyways, most importantly, we now have a sim card. There's one subscriber who sent me a message on Instagram ... some time ago. So I told him that I'll be coming to the border and we can meet there. But he was perhaps standing at some other point and couldn't see me. Nor could I see him. So I crossed the border and kept going. I sent him a message as soon as I got internet. So he's here now. From his Instagram username, I can guess that his name must be Ali. We are going for lunch. I can ask his name there. I don't know if this city has nothing in it or it is closed. Let's park it here. The food is here. And here's Badar. And he's Qamar; his elder brother. He is your son. Yes. Hamza. Sorry I thought your name was Shoaib. So .. it was Badar contacted me. Sitting at this table, you can see that a lot of food has been ordered. Although I wanted to keep it light. You can tell everyone about your order. We have fried fish, grilled fish, chicken biryani and seafood biryani. Is it the same biryani that we have in Pakistan? Go ahead and try. But I don't think so. But at least it's called biryani. Ok. Let's say Bismillah ... It's light meal. Otherwise it would have been a full lamb. That's just what we could manage on short notice. We are so glad that you gave us time. Why don't you start, Hamza? Look at these hanging kebabs. Used to be served in plates but that's the new way. It's our seafood biryani ... But it's some sort of a bird ... could be a pheasant .. Qamar told me it's called saman here. I'm trying it for the first time. However, the biryani is absolutely delicious. We haven't tried the fish yet but I'm sure it must be delicious as well. Their seafood is really good. We had a heavy lunch. Lets leave from Khafji now. I'm changing the plan a little. I had planned to go to Dammam. But now I have come to know that there's another way. I can also see it on the map. There will be a couple of cities along the way where I can stay for the night. Because if I keep going towards Dammam, I'll not have enough time ... to explore Dammam ... Khuber and Bahrain. That would barely mean anything. I won't be able to meet anyone. So it's better if I come back during December or January. Could be November or December. Well I plan to explore this region in detail this year. Oman .. UAE ... Qatar ... Bahrain ... Saudi Arabia ... So I can visit those areas later. And the distance of Riyadh from here is 550 km, if I take a direct route. But if I also include 300 km of Dammam, it's gonna be a rather long shot. So lets just take this route. And hopefully we'll reach Riyadh tomorrow. In that case I can spend a few days in Riyadh before going to Medina. Full tank, please. That's good. Petrol is 2.21 SAR per liter. That's almost 60 cents. You are on camera. Assalam Alekum You are from Bangladesh, right? Tell us the name of your city. Okay. Allah Hafiz. With every new country, petrol is getting more expensive. In Iran, I got 10 liters for 1 dollar. I think my motorcycle could get a full tank in 1 dollars in Iran. In Iraq, it was 30 cents per liter ... Almost 55 Pakistani rupees. It was almost the same in Kuwait. Here it's 60 cents which is almost PKR 110. We need to be off to the highway now. This feels like the downtown or old city center. That's what the shape of these shops suggest. Time to say goodbye to Badar. And then we'll go on with the rest of our journey. Thank you so much for your hospitality. Remember me in your prayers. Yeah, I have my navigation on and I hope to get some distance covered before sunset. Thanks brother. Welcome to Karyatal Aula. It's 6:50 pm right now. I have covered the last 50 km after sunset. I'm glad that I didn't choose to go for the longer ride. By the way I have witnessed the horrific driving that everyone told me about. Saudis will not give you any space on the road. That's scary. Now we need to find some hotel. Good job, Rangeeli. We have crossed 35 thousand kilometers today. And for that ... we'd like to say Thank You to Dewan Motors. Thanks to BMW Motorad Dewan Motors for their great service. I haven't done any service after that. I mean it's pending and we'll do it in Riyadh or Jeddah. That's almost 7000 km ago. We'll get the next service in the days to come. Our special thanks to Brighto Paints for being the sponsor for this tour. So, I'd like to say that if you are enjoying my vlogs ... please use Brighto paints when you build your house. I'll also use that myself. By the way, we are also building a house. Please for its smooth completion. It's a beautiful city. Very clean and had a nice entrance. These colorful lights look pretty amazing at night. I have seen them in Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and here. These lights being really good vibes. There it is. Glory be to Allah ... We are finally here. Let's see if they have a room. Looks nice though. I hope it's not too expensive. Abar ... don't get robbed. Hope we get a good rate. Assalam Alekum Do you speak English? I need one room. You need one room? Yes. For one person. For one night only. Checkout will be tomorrow. 200 SAR ... That's our room for the night. There's a TV in there. A cabinet there .. And there's a nice looking and clean bed. Let me show you the other side. That's the toilet. Interestingly, it's not the hotel that I came for. They were gonna charge me ... almost 14 thousand Pakistani rupees. About 75 dollars ... not a bit expensive! And this hotel was right next to that one and costed me 120 SAR. That's almost PKR 6000. 32 US dollars. Quite reasonable. The room is nice and I'll sleep comfortably here. Tomorrow we will leave for Riyadh. I hope you must have loved this vlog. Don't forget to press the LIKE, SUBSCRIBE and SHARE button. And that's what you always forget. It's sad that even after putting so much effort in this video ... and still not getting Likes from you. These buttons are very important. At least never forget the Like button. The more you like it ... the more YouTube will promote my content. Thanks very much. Remember me in your prayers. Allah Hafiz.