(hoof beats pounding) - I was thinking about you yesterday. Friend of mine in Jackson Hole was talking about their rodeo. Bozeman doesn't have one. Why not? - Well that's 'cause nobody - Oh, you're wrong, John. Every millionaire I know Authenticity's the one It'd be good for Bozeman and a great way to honor men like you. - Well, parading just in Dan, isn't an honor. It's a, it's an insult. You wanna build subdivisions. Move to Dallas, I won't have 'em here. Yeah, that's right. Nothing happens in this - Called progress, John. And progress doesn't need your permission. - Yeah, in this valley it does. - Why do you care what I build? You expect me to believe about the environment? You raise cattle, you fucking hypocrite. You know what I think it is? I think it's ego. I think it chaps your ass to walk through a grocery store and - You bet your ass it does because moves a family I know out. - With every winner, there's a loser. - First thing you said I agree with. Can't stop it, John. - Watch me. - Go ahead. Say it. It'll make a lawsuit much simpler. Say stop building or else. (horse whinnying) - I'm skipping straight to or else with you, you cocksucker. And from now on, or And by the way, you owe me a horse, you son of a bitch. (hoof beats pounding) - Connor, two more. (soft country music) - Oh, hi, Dan. Who's this? - I'm his wife. - Beth Dutton. I run mergers and acquisitions - You work with Dan? - Oh, we flirted with a (soft country music) That's quite the shiner you got there. - He was in a car wreck. - Those airbags, they sure pack a punch. So, you guys out for a - It's the only kind. The whole city shuts down at nine. - Plenty of trouble if You should give me a call sometime. I'll help you find it. - (laughs) I could use some trouble. - Well, I'm your girl. - (laughs) Oh my God, I think (chuckling) You're not leaving, are you? - Not on your life. - I'll be right back. - Okay. (laughing) (soft country music) Remember what I said, Dan. Generations. - Think I wanna fuck you? - Oh. A deal's a deal. Besides, I'm not fucking you. I'm fucking her. And if you have a brother, I am chopping your family tree down. Thank you. Send her over when she (soft country music) - I only see one legitimate - Goldman Sachs and He had a bankruptcy in '09. - What a fucking hack. Akron Capital. - VC firm out of Encino. - Oh, that's how he does it? Dumb money in California, of which there is an endless supply. - Evidently not. Look at his credit. It's the next file. - He has two mortgages on his house? Jason, this guy has leveraged everything. Every penny is tied up Moving that river really fucked him. - Look at File Three. - He's trading on the OTTC. Aw, I am not that lucky. It's at three bucks a share. I'm gonna be on his board by Monday. - What are you doing here? (soft rock music) - I'm not gonna smoke in I do have boundaries. - Where's my wife? (upbeat rock music) I been stumbling down the mountain (laughing) - Woo! - You are hot. Baby I lost my way - I took you for a cuckold. Guess I was wrong. You brought this on yourself, Dan. - I'm gonna ruin you. I'm gonna ruin you and your - You hurt my father, I hurt you back. This isn't hurting you, Dan. This is just fun. No, hurting you is gonna when I purchase every share I'm only telling you this because I know you can't stop it. I recommend begging your for more money, maybe they'll And frankly, Dan, I hope they are, because this has been too fucking easy. (soft dramatic music) (cowboy whistling) (car door closing) (soft dramatic music) (upbeat dramatic music) (doors closing) (upbeat dramatic music) (tires squealing) (birds calling) - You guys are fucking idiots! You will rot in prison for this, for the rest of your fucking lives! - No, no no, it happens all the time. Lost souls, they come out they can't bear to live another day, so they decide to end it all. (birds calling) It's really toughest They never understand why. - Fuck you. - Don't you look at me, you piece of shit. You look at him. He has to understand what he's up against. That semi that ran into was that an accident? - It was a convenient opportunity. - Well it ain't so fucking I want you to tell him about the land. Tell him how you get it. Go on. - We inflate the land prices. Run up the property tax. Then you price people out. You know how much the You think I'm gonna be the last person who's gonna wanna take it? Your father has two choices. Either to sell it or to lose it. That's the fucking truth. - Now you know, Kayce. Jimmy, go on and cut him down. - Fuck you guys! - Don't you wanna have - This don't feel like a lawyer meeting. - I saw your son go against Peabody Coal before the Senate, he is - Yeah, he can argue What is this problem? - Well, a casino in this valley on our business, your In five years, how many ranches like this can afford to exist? - Wanna hear our guess? Soon as that casino opens, they'll approach the forest and they'll build a ski resort. - And you know as well as are daggers to the heart - It'll be an ocean of - I'm aware. - I'm sure you are. Look, my office has no - And yours has no And your new AG can't restrict them. So we need to fight this and well, we just don't think they've got the stomach for that. - Yeah. Well, they have the stomach for it. I don't need partners, fellas. - Dan Jenkins has a partner, a big one. - Think of us as allies. We'd be the perfect allies Because there's no part of your business that benefits ours, and vice versa. - And when we fight, We'll win at any cost. - Yeah. - John? We just want you to consider it. - I consider every option, Malcolm, and I choose the one If it helps you, it's a coincidence. (soft dramatic music) - That's not the way you - You're buying up quite the swath of land here in the valley. - You're a long way from - I don't consider any part - I'm not sure the state would agree with you on that, buddy. - Hm. Your father is a, he's I respect that. I'm not either. So I wanna be clear about something. I will not have a casino built - We don't want one either. - But you won't help me stop them. - I'd go back to Billings, Malcolm. We'll take it from here. - Huh. You see, I just can't, I ... I can't trust that you will stop them. Your family has the political this bill never happens, and - I think my father's reputation should warrant a little trust. - The only thing he and when that property tax quadruples, the only way he'll be able to protect it is find a new revenue stream. - That's my job. - I'm well aware of that. I'm also aware that the for the casino comes from Now your father may not but I guarantee you have. And I am positive that figuring out how much money you will make turning the Dutton Ranch into Do you know the story of Susan Rawlings? - Real estate attorney from Hamilton. - That's right. We had a mutually beneficial relationship, until she figured out to benefit her business That's the problem with Because when someone plays dirty back, there's no one to cry to. There's no charges to file. There's nowhere to scream because if you do, all your filthy laundry just spills for everyone to see. Susan finally realized that. They moved her. Somewhere in California where they could help her move past the trauma. (soft dramatic music) It's uncanny how much you look like her. (keys clicking) (keys clicking) (soft dramatic music) - Excuse me, can I ... Hey, no no no. (Jason groaning) (dramatic music) (engine roaring) (dramatic music) (phone ringing) - [Recording] This is - Fuck! Fuck! (engine roaring) - This wasn't a crime, Dad. - This was-- (soft dramatic music) - I'll take care of this. - [John] Thank you for coming. Now, you know what they did to me. - They did something similar to me. - Yeah? What they do to you? - They pulled my liquor license. They're putting me out of business. I don't see the logic in it, - They want you to leave. They want him to quit building, and they want me to make him. To this point, I'd say we But no one's attacked my family on behalf of your business, and on behalf of mine. - Nothing any of us say here Our paths will always collide. We fight. One of us'll win. But you've been a good enemy, John. A fair enemy. - I don't know if I agree with fair. But you've kept your fight - Well, now we face a new enemy. And they don't play fair. They'll find the thing you care about most and they'll kill it. (soft dramatic music) - This is like a blood oath, - I'll call you back later. (items smashing) (items crashing) (glass smashing) (Malcolm screaming) (Malcolm breathing hard) (soft dramatic music) - You know this gets any gonna start to notice. (soft dramatic music) So how far you wanna take this thing, Mal? - They're not leaving us much choice. We take this all the way. - Well this thing doesn't He runs this thing with his children. - I said! All the way. - All right. So who do you wanna start with? (soft dramatic music) - The one he loves the most. (soft dramatic music) (hooves beating) (soft dramatic music) - I'll be covering you on your right. - Yes, sir. (soft dramatic music) - Let's get in place. You think they got night vision? - Yeah. And thermal, you can bet on it. (soft dramatic music) - I love you. (soft dramatic music) - You tell me where my grandson is, and I'll get you to a hospital. (Malcolm groaning) You have my word. (Malcolm crying) - Go on, scream. Scream till whatever makes you wanna hurt a child to hurt me leaves you. (soft dramatic music) If there's a heaven, and I, I sure hope so, this is your last chance to do something that just might get you in it. (Malcolm inhaling) You know, I think a lot I got left before there's but sit around and reminisce. You on the other hand are of reminiscing in the or you can lay there and will be your last thought. Not whoever you may have loved or your brother's ninth Your entire lifetime's gonna be reduced to my grandson's face. It's up to you, Malcolm. (Malcolm breathing hard) - What's he doing? (Malcolm grunting) - That's Jupiter up there, the bright one. Did you know that? (Malcolm coughing) - Carter Mees. That's his name. Whitefish, Mont ... Whitefish, Montana. - I'll call for a chopper, - I ain't gonna make it to a hospital. - Yeah, well, I gave you my word. - I won't hold you to it. - It shouldn't surprise Wish we'd bought it. - It doesn't surprise me they bought it. It surprises me they knew about it. I mean, if a company in this valley, we're But we weren't, and now swaggering through our fucking fields. - Who's Market Equities' main competition? - MGM, Marriott. - [Bob] And what does - (sighs) A ski resort? But we're an hour and a It's too remote for ... Okay, they're not taking over a resort. They're building an airport. But there's no reason to build an airport because there is no ski resort. (soft dramatic music) Who do you know at the - I know the secretary of the interior. - Call him. Find out if They are building an airport and a ski resort, and then they're gonna - Buy everything you can - How the fuck did they I mean, does Chase manage their funds? - [Bob] Goldman, I think. - All right. Who's the big swinging dick - Who runs the hot hedge funds at Goldman? - [Woman] There's Micah Greenberg's fund and Roarke Morris, his fund's on fire. - All right, who's heavy in real estate? - Roarke, he bridges lines of then sells them to his fund. - Fucking shell game. All right, what's his first name? - Roarke. - That's his first name? That's (soft dramatic music) You gotta be fucking kidding me. - You know him? - It's like Lucille Ball and I have to go make a God damnit! - Continued their downward were added to the US trade blacklist. Both companies are currently being investigated for securities fraud. And in the largest dip of the day, investment firm Market Equities falls over 7 and a half percent. - What the fuck? (soft dramatic music) (keys clicking) (soft dramatic music) That fucking bitch. (soft dramatic music) - Because she baited them into it. Every hedge fund manager in It doesn't matter if it's true! The boulder is rolling down the hill and I can't do anything to stop it. Look, set a call with shareholders. We need to start a buyback. I know. I know. I fuck ... (laptop thudding) I know. (soft dramatic music) - Pardon the way I'm dressed. - In your robe? - Do it naked. Clothing restricts the Be a better world if just the way God made us. Have a seat. So how's it going? - We been pushing him pretty hard. - Good, keep pushing. - I ain't trying to go back to prison. And I ain't trying to get killed. - Everything you've done's been justified. They harassed our livestock, That's the way this'll Now keep pushing till that we can use in court. - I wanna bring some more men on. I don't want a dozen of his wranglers dragging me through the sagebrush. - Bring on whoever you like. But somebody better get Can't sue for damages if - You don't know John Dutton like I do. - That's why the job pays so well. So keep poking him till does something he can't take back. (soft dramatic music) - He's sure slow to get the message. - Maybe we oughta get our boys up here before we mess with - It's one fucking guy. Hell, we're getting paid to stir trouble. Let's stir some. (dramatic music) (wood thudding) (hoof beats pounding) (dramatic music) (hoof beats pounding) (dramatic music) - Oh shit! We gotta turn back. (dramatic music) - I'm gonna shoot every (dramatic music) (man groaning) (man screaming) (water running) - Excuse me. This yours? - What? - Found it up here on the bank. - Not mine, man. - Not yours, huh? You sure? - I said it's not mine. - Sure it's not yours, huh? A little present from the Yellowstone. (screaming) (water splashing) (groaning) (dramatic music) (groaning) (coughing) (groaning) Shouldn't be long now. Good riddance. (gentle music)