Man: Are you ready? Uno, due, tre! (blows whistle) (lively music) Narrator: He was an original. In the history of before or since, has as sophisticated; and yet, with it all, as human. For over 30 years, he was Hollywood's most acknowledged as one of He was the star everyone loved. He was also the star His name was Cary Grant. (lively music) Stanley D.: I and I think most people do, as a person who Garson: Women adored him. They loved looking at him. They loved listening to him and they loved Deborah: The most is how fantastically Stanley K.: He was that people presumed, well, maybe he doesn't Douglas: People who knew that there were great Richard: He needed not only to be liked; but for him to be approved of. Leslie: He had to That was very important to him. Narrator: Bristol, There still stand the the street on which he was born; the school he attended; the theatre that became his He was born January 18, 1904, Archibald Alexander Leach. Alston: His mother in his very young days. A few years earlier, who died shortly before It was said that she Narrator: Like many Victorians, Archie's mother was Elsie Leach felt she Her husband, Elias, worked hard as a pants presser, Pampered and Archie was the center But that would suddenly end. He was only 10 years from school one day to Alston: His father to a local mental hospital, where she remained He was told she was She would be back. But it was all very vague, and he was then left with as to whether he had Why had his mother It was to have, I feel, a profound effect on him Narrator: He rarely and often went to and dreamed of running He joined the Boy Scouts as a loner who always Archie was 14 when the childish prank of peeking It marked the end of Alston: He was hauled in It was cruel, to say the least. Narrator: But Archie and a chance visit backstage to Bristol's Hippodrome Theatre Voiceover: Hello, love. [Lovely]. Please yourself. (audience laughs) Do you feel like And you? Narrator: It was like the lights, the music. Archie got a job calling It was magical. He saw the men and from these dressing before an audience They were cheered, It was an experience and he was hooked. Within weeks, Archie of Pender's learning the art of prat pleasing an audience. Archie had found (ship horn blares) In two years, the on its way to perform and 16 year old Archie New York was a far cry The jazz age was being born When the Pender lads Archie decided he had His chance for a and he was going to When he couldn't he survived by walking to advertise the Leslie: He told me and he used to sell on Broadway out of a suitcase, and he was forever If he saw a cop, he would quickly close Jean: I had written a skit a very, very handsome man He came in and my partner said, &quot;Oh, we saw him already and &quot;He has a Cockney accent. &quot;He has a very peculiar walk &quot;and no acting I said, &quot;Well, it doesn't &quot;He's the only really &quot;who has come in I just fell madly Garson: He was a handsome, imposing young blade He'd been on the road for the Shuberts and He was always around Narrator: In 1929, a screen test from He was rejected. The reason: bowlegs, and what was described Archie refused to Vendor girl: [Unintelligible]. Cary: Oh, boy. What a great day to Narrator: This made in New York one of the great screen Cary: Hello, [Jeanie]! Sure, I'll buy a doll. Sailor for me, and here it is, and a beautiful Now, how about a kiss (sailors laugh) Narrator: It was 1931. Archie Leach was 27 years old and determined to succeed. He drove to Hollywood with all his possessions crammed and soon got This time Paramount and with it a new name. Archie Leach would be no more. He was now Cary Grant. John: His early films people like Nancy Carroll Sylvia Sydney, of course. He was there to look Gary Cooper or Freddy Cary Grant, he was He was a leading man. Richard: I'd heard the about how Cary Grant For instance, I'd heard after Douglas Fairbanks with that elegant style. I think it started Garson: The first time I impact was when he was Now, Mae West, being personality that she anyone else who was on But, apparently, she liked him. Mae: Why don't you come I'm home every evening. Garson: And he liked her. Cary: Yeah, but I'm Garson: She gave him in which to operate. Cary: [She were] in Jacobson's Hall Any time you have I'll be glad to You're more than welcome. Mae: I heard you, but Come up, I'll tell your fortune. Oh, you can be had. Richard: She needed an opposite. Not somebody from the with elegance that would Cary: So, all this is your Mae: No, it's just You have to see my winter stuff. Cary: They always They have no warmth, no soul. Mae: Well, I'm sorry my soul than you Maybe I ain't got no soul. Cary: Oh, yes you have. But you keep it Haven't you ever met a man that could make you happy? Mae: Sure, lots of times. Garson: He had his own so unique that it stamped Narrator: After Cary Grant was as being among their more (girl singing) But success had its price. Cary was expected to participate in every publicity whatever his personal Cary: Well, I came how much I enjoyed your song. Little girl: Oh, but Cary: No, no kidding. All jokes aside, I'm serious. I really mean it. Little girl: Why and I'll put on some Narrator: About this his mother was still alive He would buy her a new home and would visit her of her disappearance Alston: It's difficult what a stigma attached in the first 30 years So it's not entirely decided not to tell his son She, of course, had no idea that by now he was world-famous. Narrator: Elsie Leach Cary had fallen in love Virginia Cherrill, an Charlie Chaplin in City Lights, and opposite Cary Cary: Hello, darling. Have a nice trip? Virginia: Lovely. Cary: Hey, where did Virginia: From an admirer. Cary: Not bad. Boy: I delivered your flowers Virginia: So you sent them. Narrator: Cary and in London in February, 1934. They appeared to be the Emcee: He's been a Narrator: At a at the Paramount studio, good humor that would Cary: It's nice to see I have to get back to the set. This tan isn't on the level. Bye-bye. Narrator: But the such ease with women a more difficult time In December, 1934, Virginia Cherrill accusing Cary of For Cary, it would mean a replay of the old feelings He tried to focus all his but again and again he was In 1936, Paramount for Sylvia Scarlett, and co-starring John: The next thing you knew, Cary was so far away from in his Paramount tall, leading man days that #Hey, this man's a comedian.# Narrator: Suddenly, Cary for better parts lay So, in 1937, he made He bought out his contract few major Hollywood stars John: Away from Paramount, secondary studios would who just been a leading man. And of course, Cary became Narrator: In 1937, the Hal Roach comedy, But it was in Columbia released the same year, as a comedian was established. From day one, it was Ralph: Leo McCarey, one of all time, said, #Do you and I said, #Yes, He said, #That's great. &quot;Come on over here.# We went over to a grand piano, and Irene Dunne had and she was trying to bang She said, #Leo, I &quot;I'll never get this.# He said, #Do the best you can. &quot;Ralph, you sing it. &quot;Belt it out!# (Ralph sings Home on the Range) At the end of the first She didn't know what kind Cary said, #Let me out of this &quot;and I'll do another From then on, McCarey a piece of brown wrapping and he'd say, #You come in here. &quot;You come in over there, &quot;and I'll run the &quot;And then you come And that's the way We never had a script. Irene: He's my Ralph: Cary caught on quickly. Cary: Well, hello folks! Ralph: Hello. Cary: This is Dixie Bell Lee. This is Mrs. Warriner, the gentleman that Mrs. Ralph: It was right his kind of comedy, of humor. Cary: Now, are you sure Ralph: Uh, what do you mean? He could laugh with you He knew you were laughing, and he was encouraging it. Cary: So you're going to How I envy you, Oklahoma! Ralph: We're going to live Cary: Lucy, you lucky girl! Ralph: New York's all but I wouldn't Irene: I know I'll Cary: But of course. And if it should get dull, to Tulsa for the weekend. Garson: He started to comfortably, more and of course effectively. (dog barks) Cary: Check it. (dog barks) Garson: By the time he had found a persona and make more and more his own. Stanley: And then of perhaps the brightest Narrator: Cary had a field day, playing once more in the zany 1938 Cary: I don't believe you, Sue. Katharine: But you Cary: I've been a victim Cary: of your unbridled Cary: I'm going to- AAHHH! Katharine: No, but if you'll I just gave you my- (fabric ripping) Cary: No, no, no, no. I'm just trying to tell Katharine: Oh, no I didn't. Why, if you hadn't and waited for my explanation- Cary: It's not my fault. Katharine: Your coat would Narrator: Wild confusion that would go on to become That same year, the was again at work in Holiday. Cary was hailed for his who found himself engaged Cary: Don't worry, my dear. If I'm going to get I'll just grit my teeth, Doris: Oh, but darling, you're going to make Cary: Oh, but Doris: Oh, yes you are. Cary: Oh, no, no. Doris: Oh, yes. Cary: No. Katharine: Is life Cary: Well, I don't call Katharine: And what for yourself, Doctor? Cary: A holiday. Katharine: For how long? Cary: As long as I need. Katharine: You Cary: I want to know how the picture, what it's I can't find that out sitting behind some so as soon as I get I'm going to knock Katharine: Quit? Cary: Quit. I want to save part There's a catch to it, though. It's got to be part Garson: The more successful the harder he worked. The bigger a star he became, It wasn't only to get Narrator: With Gunga Din, well beyond the drawing room. Victor: What do you want? Soldier: Where's Douglas: Here! I think one of the was that he was such Soldier: Take your Douglas: Cary said that he I said, #Well, which part He said, #Well, #Heads you play this, It was decided in as Joan: Darling, please don't go! Douglas: The trouble a man for a husband; Run out on his friends Well, that's not me, and And that's how it happened Narrator: Gunga Din was of 1939 and Cary Grant the most exciting male The 1940 His Girl Firday, with Rosalind Russell revealed Screwball Cary: This other fellow, well I'm sorry I didn't I'm more or less particular Where is he? Rosalind: Oh, he's waiting for me out there. Cary: Do you mind if I meet him? Rosalind: Oh, no Walter. It wouldn't do any good, really. Cary: Oh, now you're Rosalind: Afraid? Of course not! Cary: Well, then come on! Let's see this paragon! Is he as good as you say? Rosalind: Better! Cary: Well then, what Rosalind: (laughs) Cary: I'm going to Voiceover: Okay. Cary: Oh, I am sorry, Hildy. I suppose that Bruce- Rosalind: Baldwin. Cary: Baldwin? I suppose he opens Rosalind: He does. And when he's with a lady, Cary, Oh, I am sorry. Rosalind: And when he waits for her. Cary: Oh, well in that case # Rosalind: Allow me. Cary: Well, I can my wife picked out the How do you do, sir? Earl: Must be some mistake. I'm already married. Cary: Already married? Ralph: He had wonderful humor, and it developed into humorous style that More than appealing, Cary: Congratulations Earl: Oh, no # Ralph: Mr. Burns? Cary: Oh, excuse me. What do you want? Because you just leave What did you say, Mr. Baldwin? Earl: My name is ... Ralph: Mr. Burns, Mr. Burns # Cary: Some other time. I'm busy with Mr. I didn't hear what you said. Earl: Pete Davis is my name. Ralph: Mr. Burns # Cary: Now look, Ralph: I'm Bruce Baldwin. Cary: Oh, you're Bruce Baldwin? Ralph: Yes. Cary: Well, who's he? Who are you? Earl: My name is Pete Davis. Cary: Well, Mr. Davis, is Earl: No. Cary: Well, from to keep your nose That doesn't happen Mr. Baldwin, I'm terribly This is indeed a pleasure. Narrator: With The in which he co-starred and Jimmy Stewart, Cary as Hollywood's foremost But events abroad would change what brought people into would have to find a way (explosions) The war in Europe the world: a time of Alston: In 1941, when its greatest from air raids, hundreds of people It was that precise moment that Cary decided to Critics unkindly suggested it might be to The suggestion was very hurtful because he was Douglas: During the war every year and give British war charities Stanley D.: He never ever really remove himself but he loved America and he loved being Narrator: Visiting Cary found a ready who had done so much to cheer millions But these were different the zany and the The 1941 Penny Serenade was a reflection of that change. Cary: What a grip. For a girl, I mean. The first time I saw her, she looked so I didn't know babies When she took hold of my she just sort of Judge, and she I didn't know I I'd always been, well, kind of careless I wanted to be a big shot. I'm not a big shot now. I'll do anything. I'll work for anybody. I'll beg, I'll borrow. Please, Judge. I'll sell anything I've got She'll never go hungry and she'll never not as long as I've got Narrator: For his his first Academy Richard: He was and I think that's what got so to speak, of his life, with a picture But there wouldn't with Cary Grant unless who was making the Joan: There was about Johnnie Aysgarth. I knew it long It was our first Cary: Now what did you Nothing less than such a violent self defense. Joan: Even his reassurances Cary: I want the rest of my life with you. If you were to die first, I ... Peter: Hitchcock something besides a I think he saw in the to be menacing, to be Joan: From that moment on, my life was filled with fear. Not of Johnnie. I loved him too much But the fear of not knowing, the wondering how the waking in the shaking with terror and that whatever it was it would be done quickly and with mercy. Narrator: Originally, to play the part of a killer, but Cary feared would damage his image, and so the ending of Deborah: Cary was a devout and following the kind of Garson: That's the If an actor or an actress tries to create a a different personality then the audience doesn't except the creative Deborah: He always Garson: That's exactly what Deborah: He never or a killer, or a mean person. Garson: They do not to be anything but his that they have come Narrator: In 1942, to learn that Cary Grant, who had worked since he had married one of the Barbara Hutton. Alston: Critics suggested He was known then a phrase which was to What had not been realized, he'd inserted in the whatever happened to benefit from her fortune. Narrator: In 1944, Cary he would ever make to play a character whose world could have been that The film was None Cary: Anything in the Ethel: No, I don't need Richard: Cary was a man of with his own character. Cary: I mean to do my Happy couple, aren't we? Richard: He was it seemed to me, Cary: Peace? That's what us minions want, without having to snatch Peace to be not a but peace with pride and Peter: Unfortunately, ventured out on, such as were not his most I think it made him from playing real Narrator: Though critics praised None But the Lonely his second Academy Cary measured success and there the film In his private life, Cary would also suffer In 1945, after three Barbara Hutton sued for divorce. Rupert: She had a and they would come to Cary would sit but she said he with these titled people. Immediately after to his room upstairs But it must have been a because he manufactured from a man who had a very Narrator: The following year, Cary played a who falls deeply in love, Cary: A man doesn't she tells herself. You almost had me believing in that little hokey-pokey that a woman like you could Ingrid: Oh, you're rotten. Cary: That's why I The answer had to come from you. Ingrid: Oh, you never so what's the difference? Cary: It wouldn't have been if I'd figured, &quot;She'd Ingrid: Devlin # Cary: Listen, you chocked that's all; no harm done. Ingrid: I hate you. Cary: There's no occasion to. You're doing good work. Narrator: With Ingrid romantic screen partnership Ingrid: Oh, you love me. Why didn't you tell me before? Cary: I know, but I couldn't see I was a fat-headed It tore me up, not having you. Ingrid: Oh, you love me. Peter: I met Cary after he made Notorious. He was very genial, He told me his great own a freighter and just kind I said to him, #Cary, And he said, #Maybe &quot;Then I'll live the Narrator: On another during one of his Cary met a young aspiring Woman in hat: you're going to deliberately Betsy: Well, I but this is the kind of Cary: Why have you for the past two weeks? Betsy: You? Really, Dr. Brown! I've heard of but you absolutely Cary: And you will know just how many candles go on it. Narrator: Betsy and Cary were married the Cary's sense of what at the box-office had But when some of his films Cary thought it might Betsy was opening in philosophy and And at last, he was able Together, they to explore distant ports the private Cary Grant the image he had But if he wondered permanent retirement, the question was answered The film was the 1955 Cary: Who brought you up here? Grace: The police. We would have caught you, caught all over the steering Cary: As I'd done 20 minutes Grace: As quickly as you could. Cary: Didn't I thank you? Grace: Politely. Cary: Well, then. Grace: Oh, John. You left in such a Cary: I had work to do up here. Grace: Were you afraid can't do everything by yourself? Leslie: Cary liked his partners to be distinguished ladies. He chose always women who It was very important to him. I think he was very, very fond of Ingrid Bergman Announcer: Cary Academy Award Two exciting personalities who were made for each other. Leslie: He liked his to wear jewels beautifully. Grace: Look, John. Hold them. Diamonds. Have you ever had a better one with everything? Leslie: With his this wonderful rapport, but with a great deal of It was really very pleasant. It was like going Cary: I guess I'm I thought I was, Francie. Grace: Well, I just wanted Thank you. Goodbye. Cary: Goodbye. Deborah: And women. Cary: Oh, women? Deborah: You've known and I suppose they've all Cary: I doubt it. Deborah: But you haven't Cary: Oh, on the contrary- Deborah: Still, you've in your judgements. Cary: Yes; I've I idealized them. Every woman I meet, Deborah: Even when he was and making jokes, which there was still this remoteness, there was still this Oh, winter must be cold for those with no warm memories. We've already missed the spring. Cary: Yes. This is probably my last chance. Deborah: Mine, too. Cary: It's now or never. Deborah: There was vulnerability in Cary. If I said fear, that but he was wary of Cary: I just want to be worthy of asking you to marry me. Deborah: Oh, Nickie, that's Your voice cracked. Cary: Well, that's because I- Deborah: Yes, I know, I know. That didn't stop him from And by loving, I Announcer: It's the in Hollywood as Oscar steps into the spotlight for the 29th time. Narrator: By now, Cary most public events; but in the Academy Award on for her performance Announcer: Won by accepted on her Narrator: When most of Ingrid for leaving for director Roberto Rossellini, Cary remained one of In 1958, Indiscreet old friends together again. Cary: What do you mean? Ingrid: I mean we Cary: And not be married? Ingrid: That's right. Cary: That's the most Ingrid: WHAT? Cary: I can hardly Ingrid: But what are Cary: I didn't think Ingrid: But what is different? Cary: We are not married. Ingrid: We weren't before. Cary: But you didn't Ingrid: You knew. Cary: I knew you didn't know. What's the matter with you? How could you ask me Hadn't you been following Oh, I tell you, women are That's one of the great Men are the true romanticists. I- (Ingrid softly cries) What are you crying about? Ingrid: Oh, shut up, Philip. Cary: Don't cry, Anna. I love you. Everything would be all right. You'll like being married. You will, you'll see. Narrator: It was 1958. For over 25 years, everybody's favorite Jean: You know the man like to love and that He played that part and played it beautifully. Narrator: In many ways, With the 1959 Hitchcock Cary Grant's career seemed Cary: I'm an advertising I've got a job, a secretary, and several bar tenders and I don't intend to by getting myself Announcer: Cary Grant searching for a man and a secret nobody knows, and finding a blond who Eva: Hello there. Cary: Tell me, why Eva: Shall I climb I was fascinated of Alfred Hitchcock although they were very they were very classy Cary: The moment I meet I have to start pretending I've no desire to Eva: What makes you think Cary: She might find Eva: Then again, she might not. Cary: Think how lucky I am Eva: Well, luck has Cary: Faith? Eva: I tipped the steward $5 to seat you here if I just found him to be You just always felt he not only for his close-ups I had the feeling that he was very happy I was and when he talked with I was the only woman in When I would be with him, I was almost frightened by it, because although it wasn't that incredible, adoring feeling that Richard: He felt imposed And yet, I never knew as well as he did in a crowd. Stanley D.: Actually, man in those days who you'd often get the much more often than the President of Eva: By the way, he charged Douglas: One of the things about was that he was Deborah: He was renowned at Christmas or Richard: I never received a Eva: He told the people it Richard: But I received not because it was it was Tuesday or Monday, Eva: And I was afraid to do I wasn't sure they'd come Narrator: In 1959, Cary if not with the critics then Operation Petticoat. It would be his highest Cary: Women! Sailor on right: Wow! Cary: Now, for the next few in fairly close contact Woman in blue: Oh, excuse me. Cary: Now, with you the crew being men, well # Man in blue: What are you Cary: It works, doesn't it? Man in blue: Yeah, That thing going up and Cary: Well, what Tallest woman: We know what We're well acquainted Cary: Some of the men may. I'm simply trying to avoid any exchange of information. Blond woman: Oh, good morning. Cary: Good morning. Blond woman: Mr. Holden's explaining how everything works. Cary: Now, he's been explaining. Blond woman: We're to the maneuvering room. Cary: I'm afraid Mr. to maneuver this morning. Don't you have a book to read? Tony: Yes, sir. I'm on chapter 5, actually, Care and Operation Cary: All right. Tony: I can't wait to Cary: Oh, you'll like it. It turns out happily. They get each other in the end. Narrator: Twenty-eight New York's largest and Radio City. He was again and the movie-house's Stanley K.: When he he was Cary Grant: the star incarnate. Reporter: ... and box-office champion. Stanley K.: Grant never of being commercial as commercial an actor Narrator: Now the Cary knew the But when he cooperated, Leslie: He would say, #Let &quot;know nothing but #A star is best left mysterious. #Just show your work on film &quot;and let the publicity Narrator: In 1961, Robert and Jean Simmons in The Grass is Greener. The film's director Stanley D.: He played whose wife cheats on him The man understood some desire for this other man. Jean: He's not just He's a millionaire! Cary: Darling, have you Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you were alone. Deborah: Uh, isn't Cary: No, it isn't. You're from the press, are you? Robert: No, I'm not. Cary: Well, you've got a camera. You just took a photograph. Deborah: Mr. Delacro Cary: Oh, I see. I thought you were or something. Stanley D.: And, of as perhaps in life it when he said to her, the thrill was gone. Cary: So I can only a sort of moratorium. Deborah: How do you mean? Cary: An armistice, call it what you like. Whatever you do, you do. If you decide to I'll just have to wait Stanley D.: And he won her back. Deborah: You mean you'd Stanley D.: That was Narrator: After a Betsy Drake divorced The marriage had lasted remain friends to the By 1963, Cary had of leading man Now he was approaching Man in coat: One more Cary: Your husband's What was it? Audrey: Any minute now, Mr. Bartholemew! Mr. Bartholemew! Help me! Cary: Reggie, stop! Audrey: Oh, I don't Cary: Reggie, I beg you. Just trust me once more. Audrey: Why should I? Cary: I can't think of a reason in the world why you should. Stanley D.: When he was concerned that the Audrey Hepburn and Cary, Cary: Here you are. Audrey: Where? Cary: On the street Audrey: How about once Cary: How about Come on, child, out. Audrey: Won't you Cary: No, I won't. Audrey: I don't bite you Cary: How would you Audrey: How would you Stop treating me like a child! Cary: Well, then stop Audrey: Do you know Cary: No; what? Audrey: Nothing. Stanley D.: I thought romantic a couple as you I still believe that. I think the picture today, if you look at it, is just those two Audrey: Hey, you don't Cary: Well, why do you Audrey: I thought maybe the kind of work the Cary: Pretty good, huh? Audrey: Uhm. Cary: I taught them Audrey: Oh, did they way back in your day? Cary: Sure. How do you think I got here? Audrey: Not allowed Cary: Oh, no. The doctor said it was (romantic music) Well, when you come on, Audrey: Well, come on! Leslie: Cary Grant had sophisticated man, comedian in Hollywood. By the time Cary Grant he wanted to change his image. Mr. Eckland is a drunken, filthy beast. Voice on radio: Well, Cary: This is the Leslie: If you think I'd undisciplined, self-indulgent Cary: Well, that's a frustrated spinster! Leslie: What was she like? Cary: She who? Leslie: The lady who Cary: Drove me to what? Leslie: Drink. Cary: Oh, there was no lady. Leslie: That was your wife! (laughs) I think he was quite didn't want Cary Grant and sloppy and say That was upsetting for him, and he gave up soon Cary: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Elsie: There were lots He was very interested (Cary coughing) Children: [Unintelligible]. Elsie: Drink something. Give him something Cary: Yeah, hold it! Elsie: Jenny! Cary: Well, how strange! Sharyl: Why? Cary: That you Sharyl: I've done it before. Cary: No, you haven't! Sharyl: Yes, I have. Cary: Shut up! Leslie: He was always and how I raised them. He had a very paternal It was rather touching. As a matter of fact, he was courting Dyan and it's soon after the and she gave him a child. That was the happiest Alston: It's also the only from our normal agreement. We had always promised to talk to his mother about But suddenly he asked a wire picture so she could Narrator: Walk Don't the same year that But this time, Cary did He had made 72 films, and Alston: He told me, #Look, &quot;the most marvelous &quot;What could compare with that? &quot;Certainly no movie.# Narrator: Cary's was soon headed for but Cary's devotion to his As if recalling the unhappiness Cary was determined his for a single moment In 1970, Cary Grant Academy Award for nearly At last, the Academy to one of Hollywood's He no longer appeared on he aged, the Cary Grant He joined the board He addressed the 1976 Cary: To introduce to president's first, and all Narrator: He received one highest honors, presented Ronald: Although at to be an acrobat he was Some actors had to to become successful, (audience laughs) Narrator: The eager young had indeed come a long way. But always, it was the The private man still Leslie: I think he a very quiet life and the kitchen better Narrator: In 1981, he he was still the leading man and could still win At 77, Cary married a Barbara Harris. Peter: The extraordinary is that he became I'm not talking I'm talking about the With maturity, he got probably, as we all do. Narrator: It seemed that the family he yearned to deal with the old, Alston: Just three the wheel had A lady colleague of mine took He spoke of the his mother took him shopping. He pointed out the his first Pearl White serials. And even insisted on being taken to his favorite At the end of it #I wish she'd asked me more. &quot;I was enjoying it so much.&quot; At that moment, I felt, at last, Archie Leach had Narrator: The where it had all started. John: A call from Cary That voice was unmistakable. Cary said, &quot;John, I'm going &quot;on that series that you &quot;I'm just going to do it &quot;show a few film clips, &quot;and then just talk Narrator: It was a There was no prepared script. It was billed simply as A Conversation with Cary Grant. It was that. Not with the image, the The public and the private man, they were at last Peter: He died, I'm told, answering any of any of the sometimes asked him about his private I think it's kind of a that he belonged to the public. Even though he he was still theirs, and Deborah: And from Archie what a giant step. And yet he became Cary Grant. He really became him. Stanley D.: He sort of said, &quot;the person that (lively music)