I didn't come to Paris &quot;I'm not going I just thought... I don't know, something and I was dressing in and I thought, I don't want I'm not trying to be the I feel like it's just freedom. I don't need a stylist. Like, I don't have a stylist, I'm just kind of doing Hi, Vogue. Come on in. I'm going to get ready for for Vivienne Westwood. It's very peaceful in here. I don't have handlers It's almost noon and I just got out I let my hair dry put on some moisturiser makeup look right now. My mom always told me: you're not going to want And she's right. You kind of have to You know, if we all chase our idea of what beauty and everything, we're or maybe a little bit sad. So I feel You know, sometimes, &quot;Am I doing the right thing? I don't know, then I think: &quot;Am I worrying about what And I thought: this is the time for me probably a little rebellious.&quot; But I also feel as a woman, and a woman in the public eye, &quot;It's also your job to be just all sorts of choices.&quot; You know, kind of my, in all these great So I'm very lucky. I think I'm happiest It's what's inside And I think beauty And I know it sounds cliche, I'm so corny. I didn't come to Paris &quot;I'm not going I just thought... just kind of came over me in these beautiful clothes &quot;I don't want to I'm not trying to be the I feel like it's It's like a relief. I want to walk around Paris. I want to kind of experience It's an experiment. &quot;I'm not going to at the Fashion Week in Paris.&quot; This is my rose oil and I just put it, kind of It was so nice, gave me a lot of makeup, It's clean makeup, though. I'm going to get dressed up I'm going to put I know this is going to be the Because that's it. Okay, the funny thing is: I came I came with some old, and, you know, some Valentino my own closet, Dior I love The Row. I brought a bunch of And these are like a pair that I had from probably So these are vintage, because I'm vintage now. Some old, some vintage back in the day. I love this, You know, How gorgeous is this? This is an old vintage YSL, Isn't that great? Beautiful. This is a vintage piece from Yves Saint Laurent These are old This is kind of a cute little I love this. Look. Cute. Shorts. Philip Treacy. Remember the old That's kind of like a take on I'm thinking this one but it's going to be This with a boot. I love this hat. I love this silhouette because But it's Andreas, you know? So we have the skirt and this, you know, And I'll wear these But they're beautiful. You know, Vivienne was and I'm, that she's no longer But I want to support Andreas, They've both been to and we spent a lot And, you know, revolutionary. And so I want This is the first show I've since Vivienne passed away, So I'm excited about tonight. Saving the best for last. Y'know what, these I don't need a stylist. I don't have a glam team. I'm just kind of doing Never put a hat on a bed. I think it's better, - Yeah. Right? I am cruelty free. I love the time to myself. I'd rather be walking and come home and have a nap 15 minutes before I have and just... it's much easier, Because a lot of people are in a makeup chair and have And it's, I feel blessed, in a more simple way without a lot of people which is... It was fun, but I prefer just How's your Netflix documentary Well, my son... My son produced the film I think, him and his brother not really knowing who their And so that was kind And I said: going to do this documentary I don't want to see anything. I don't want to have any I don't think So I don't know how And it turns out I've I'm a packrat. Every school report card you know, home movies So anyway, I watched a little bit of it, and I just, I broke down, you know, I think some things To rehash them was And plus, I kind of grew up a little bit at So I mean, you know, sexy lifestyle. So sometimes I would feel like when people Even though that's an and obviously it's not true because you But at the time I just learned not take it too personally But yeah, it was I'm glad things are but you know, I wouldn't even say that as women, have to and trust our instincts with respect, People do come up to me &quot;I love you. but I love you now.&quot; I was like: Because of the documentary. It's fun to celebrate beautiful lives and things We all want to dream. You know, when you watch and you can just put yourself I like the relatability I mean, I didn't come from and sometimes I'm always &quot;Am I really here?&quot; And I think if you don't then you can enjoy it all, point of view instead or self entitlement, &quot;I'm so lucky to be here.&quot; But the most important thing and to remain and to have remain grateful What do you do when you feel a little down? I write, all the time. I'm always writing, and for my children, They always make me happy. My dogs, they make When I used to I used to go to And, you know, I have a lot of Everything is art here. I mean, the buildings, all the sculptures, The fun part is, you know, and you put your jeans on your sweater, and you People are concerned They're not... I think this is so much thought about, &quot;Oh, everybody's When they're not. They're looking Okay, I think I'm ready. Thank you, Vogue. Bye.