- God. Oh, this is really bad. Oh, this is terrible. Wait, what (beep)? There's no way this is okay. What! Why is this on? (David laughing) I just got six GPU's for only $1,700 because they're all dead. Although, by the end of a couple of them will be alive. And huge thanks to Origin (upbeat music) The GPUs we have here go from (box crunching) I haven't looked at this one yet, so let's have a gander Brandon. Box has seen better days. Okay, it's just a loose graphics card. Excellent. - [Brandon] Oh, is it water cooled? - We also have a variety of loose screws. That's never a good sign. If you wanna do what we and just get it for-parts GPU, make sure someone else hasn't Like this one right here, And as far as I can tell the old owner didn't really into trying to fix it. As for like this one, it's for a parts card. If we get this guy 980 Ti for a hundred First step when you have a dead GPU is to verify that it's dead. In order to do that, we from Origin. It's a Millennium 5000T, and I guess we should probably Brandon. (machine revving) - [Brandon] Oh. - Fancy. So in here we have all of the best stuff. So 12900K, 3080 Ti, good looking (paper crackling) Wow. - [Brandon] The best peel in a while. - Yeah, that was a really One thing that's super that even though it comes with a warranty, you can swap out the parts that warranty. I don't know if they intended you to put something like this in it. (chuckles) Oh, we're gonna test it out. While the rest of these this one right here is Jono's. - Yep. - So what's wrong with it? - It would kind of disconnect, the motor would just disconnect randomly. And it'll do that in a and it'll do it in a series again. So it would happen every couple hours. So I'm kind of hoping you can fix it or see at least what's wrong with it. - That sounds very hard - I don't know. (Jono laughing) - Also I've just been and it's looking great. GPU is at 70 degrees. Everything's kind of in line Yeah, the memory's kind of but that's not too crazy. And video says you can do 120, so that's a good baseline to go off of. Now shut down Origin... I'm sorry, Origin. You did actually do of cable managing here and We have loads of power Thank you for running I don't know Brandon, you say it's like their system builder, but I've seen some pretty shotty - [Brandon] That's fair. But not Origin. - Yeah, not Origin. I think step one for this to give it a little clean. One thing to note when make sure that it doesn't spin your fans. It can just overload the into a generator, not great. There are apparently like that should prevent it but either way just don't let them spin. (air whizzing) Wow, that helped a lot. Brand new. If your GPU seems to be dying, Make sure your drivers are up to date and check if your temps are okay. So we're just gonna be doing and then we're going It's a free program. Just install it, check your stuff. Run something like maybe just any game that you run. See if anything in your GPU temperature starts looking weird. So temperatures that you're looking for, GPU shouldn't be over about 80. And memory's normally 120 at the highest. What you really wanna look for though is that your performance isn't just tanking. So we have something like FurMark here. We can run it. And we'll see that at the It's going to go down as the turbo runs out, but it shouldn't become half of that or just completely fall off a cliff. Well, I have some bad news for Jono. He thought that the temps might and they aren't. I didn't think it would be. We could leave this for longer, but it's at 50 degrees right now. There's clearly nothing One thing that people almost is update the firmware on it like What Jono has been seeing, They might have patched it like a year ago and he's just never updated it. We've done everything easy on Jono's GPU. So drivers, firmware, I can't get it to crash. So that's kind of where What I'm doing is just running at the screen to see if There's so many things that could have been causing his problems. I don't even know where to start. I personally had a problem a while ago and updating my So there's too many until we see it actually crashed and can go through the logs. while it runs though, we're going to test out the that they're safe to put in our system and just look for anything obvious. So first thing, we're just It's highly unlikely that but if there is, and you you might blow up your power supply. So it's cheap and easy insurance. Got a multimeter here. It'll go bing if there's a short. (multimeter beeping) Like that. And we're just going to It's going to be something like this. Thank you Gamers Nexus. So if these guys are you're gonna have a bad time. (multimeter beeping) Oh, that one is a sense pin, it's fine. It's the sort of thing where if your power connectors are shorted, your GPUs probably never You just done. Wanna getting it off eBay, Yeah. So none of these are gonna Super easy. Probably don't have to do it, but I would recommend doing cause cheap, easy insurance. (multimeter beeping) Oh, shut up. Now what I want to do is put them back together. See if there's anything obvious. And I find that a lot of and resembling stuff that's dead is the easiest way to fix it. You won't know why you First one we're gonna And we paid $150 for it. What do you think the chances - [David] 100% - 100% yeah, probably. One thing that I do that there is still a sticker on the back, so chances are it hasn't been taken apart and no one's really taken a look into what's gone wrong with it. This one smells kind of weird. Like, you know how that get cool stuff in. - [David] Oh yeah. - And there's those ones that - [David] Oh no. - and her whole house is there. - [David] Oh no. This one smells like that. This might be completely unnecessary. It might just work. So easy to take it apart There we go. This card, it looks fine. Now, there is just some crud on it. There's a little bit of That's kind of what I like to see, cause that's the sort of card where if you just give it a clean, Should we give it a little wash? - [David] Hell yeah. - Just using a little and toothbrush. Those spots that are (Linus humming) Last little bit for this 580. (air whizzing) - [Linus] Sorry David. - If was going to do this properly, I would also replace the thermal pads, but they seem like they're fine. And if it actually works This card's good to put in the system, but I just want to keep to see if it eventually crashes. It is entirely possible that we fixed it when we just blew all the crap out of it and put it in a case with good airflow. So it might have just been It's so hard to say. Our next card is this GeForce GTX 1080. Now, I'm a little bit because I had the exact And these early ones from of kind of exploding. There's just something wrong We updated the firmware, Whoever owned this might have not, and it might have just killed itself. Let's take it apart though, and then it should be good This one's also just I think those are supposed to I really missed the days Used to be that something was dead, you could just take a look at it. One of these guys would be bulging, replace it, it's all good. Now it's so much more difficult. Even if a capacitor goes, it's like one of these and they're super hard to deal with. That, yeah, that really a bunch of water on it. - [David] Well, stick - Yep, let's stick her in some rice. - [David] That's actually really - Yeah, this is. I really have been loving this. Oh, I am a bit scared for this one though. In this part you can really see just whatever was spilled on this. It's all sticky up here collecting dust. It's even kind of wet right there still. Hmm, tasty. Well, I think I found And if we just take a look. Yeah, that's (bleep). Now, how rough is this going to be to fix? This is a smaller Phillips. And if we look right here, it looks like a really large Phillips when you put it against this chip. But yeah, I am very confident that this is what is wrong with this GPU. Now can we get another one of these chips? I'm not sure, but there is one right here and we might have something that has one of those. I don't know. - One like it? - So I found what's wrong with this. Do you wanna have a little look? - Someone just extinguished a cigarette on top of that IC. (Linus laughs) Oh, there's also like bridging a resistor. - Yeah, that seems. Do you think that's the culprit or do you think someone tried to fix it? - She's had some work done. - The stickers were still on the GPU so no one could have had... I don't think anyone took it apart. - What the heck is attack... Oh, I was like... (Kyle laughing) This is just disintegrated. It possibly caused a short Looks like a MOSFET. I'm gonna say it's a MOSFET. Yeah, it's probably, it's dead. - [Linus] Yeah, it's very dead. - [Kyle] Oh yeah. You might be able to get the IC markings off the not dead guy. - [Linus] Yeah, I did. - Oh you and you bought it. - [Linus] I haven't bought it yet. - Okay. If it failed short, then replacing - Yeah. - Cause it's already shorted. (multimeter beeping) Dutting is bad. Yeah, this is one bucket of short mate. - Oh geez. - Have you tried running it? - I have not. I'm going to turn off this It's been running for three hours straight with a stress test and So I think it's safe to say it's fine or the problem was with Jono's system. That exploded MOSFET So even if we replace it, it's effectively doing what - Well, one of the tests what if we just shorted it We don't have to take it off to test that cause it's already shorted. If you want it to work properly we would replace it so that if it needs to turn off it can. - Yeah, the worst thing that could happen has already happened. - I think that's a power supply trip, man. - Yeah, that sounded like - That still smells fine. Send it again? - Yeah. - Oh. - Oh. - Maybe you just needed Do we have an output? - No. - Well. - It still is post coding, so. - Oh yeah. Maybe it hasn't posted yet. - I feel like we're in windows right now. - And so wait, if we're in windows then... - Yeah, device managing. - Then we can do stuff, yeah. - No. - Nothing. - It's gone. (Kyle laughing) Knowing what P MOSFETs do, I would assume that it for the graphics card to work. So it is closed permanently. Not by choice. So yeah, no, I think there Okay, so what we're gonna do now is see if we get core voltage. This is a junk way to do it. There's no AC it's all One of the easiest ways to do of these capacitors. Nevermind. I'm getting negative 12 volts cause I've got the wrong way around. But there you go, 12 volts. Okay. We have voltage. Well that means the - [David] Wait, are you like for display? - Wait, what? - [David] The display's working. - We're getting core voltage. - [David] It's working. - Wait, what? - Yeah, it's working. (Kyle laughing) - We got-- - GTX 1080. - We got core voltage man. It works, but I have no idea (Linus chuckles) And you know what we call that? - [David] if it-- - So we removed the Wait, there might have There is some liquid. - Oh yeah. Have you tried to replace these? Yeah, because those touch the caps, right? Is this-- - Yeah, those touch the caps. - Can you do a stress test&quot; And do we have a thermal camera to see if this actually gets warm? - I can get a thermal camera. Oh. - Oh. - Maybe it's not so worky. - She picks you up just - It's less dead than before at least. So we can potentially look at it with like a and see if we can find out some stuff. That's an after lunch problem. I'm disappointed. I'm probably gonna do We're gonna just move on, see if... Where did that 580 go? See if this 580 after we We have lights. We have fans. Interesting. I'm suspicious that it's One thing that's interesting it has a BIOS switch on it, so. - [David] No way. - Oh wow. - Okay, so this is... I didn't want to say what I cause it's so stupid, but there might have just been with no video output, and to a normal gaming BIOS (David laughs) Because we did switch from Nvidia to AMD, I'm just running DDU, getting and then this might work. That would be crazy. 150 bucks for a 580. Can you believe it, David? - [David] That's what it should cost. - Yeah, that is what it should cost. We'll let it run through, It would be so embarrassing on fixing GPUs and not fix one. (David and Linus laughing) Well, did we actually just fix this thing with the flick of a switch? Maybe. Hopefully it's not like that stupid 1080. Yeah, we'll leave it Let's see what the next one is. Which one do you wanna do? Let's do this one. - [David] What is that? - Oh, this one's bad. So this one's... (Linus laughs) This is a 5700XT, beautiful card. Not great things have happened to this one and someone's already We need to come on to the microscope to show you what's on the go here. You probably can't see it, there's a little capacitor Also, it's all burned to heck up here. Now, there's kind of two things This cap might have fallen off, card died, and whoever tried to repair it, cause someone clearly was a big dumb dumb, and put their soldering iron That's kind of best case scenario. Other option, this memory and in the process blew up this cap. If that happened, she's So in the microscope It looks like this might itself off. Although more likely, someone to repair it. It's got a big old ball And that's definitely That also might have and in trying to repair it, they ended up just screwing up this one. You can also see some where they presumably tried to and bridge it or whatever. Now, what you might think is just attach like a and add a cap. But the problem is that PCI-E and very fiddly basically. This capacitor being because there are two traces and those need to be I looked it up and I think five thousandths of an inch That's just because so incredibly fast that if than the other, the whole I'd like to say that I but I have a really dumb fix Well, was a success. This 580 seems to be working great. It's pretty much right on what we'd expect for a 3D mark score. This card has 16 PCI-E lanes, and the very last one is - [David] No. - If we just put it an Adex (David laughs) (chuckles)maybe it'll work. - [David] Let's try it. Well, this slot right here is Adex. As you can see, there's Nothing at all. It doesn't even know if We're just in windows, fans Yeah, I think we're gonna for now. I'll come back to it later But this one's bad vibes. 1080 Ti, 980 Ti. - [David] 980. - I was afraid of that. There's nothing obviously wrong besides that it's literally been One of the many unfortunate that it came with a PCI-E power pin that just fell off in shipping. We need to reattach that before Given the burn marks on this, I don't think it's the (upbeat music) Pin's back on. Now we just have to figure out which way these connectors are on. Cause if we put our power the card explodes or our Either way, don't want to do that. That's ground, yay. So the end of this that has a little clip is the side that has ground. We just need to make sure Oh God, this is really sketchy. Do not do this ever, any of it. We did it. - [David] How confident are - I feel like this one's Picked up the thermal camera. The reason that I want this is just to try and see if there's a short anywhere. It should just be hotter And then hopefully we can go from there. Oh wow, look at this though. It has all of the covers That's impressive. Wait what? - [David] No. - What the (bleep) ! - [David] No, no. - (chuckles) No way. - What! - How did this turn? - [David] Oh my God. - GeForce GTX 980 Ti. What! Why is this on? (David laughing) - I'm flabbergasted. - [David] You should go - Yeah, holy (beep) I just applied thermal paste. I can't believe this is just working. - [David] This is crazy. - This is actually crazy. That 980 Ti we got for $103 it ran. Score's a little bit low, it's 1700 points under the average, But there wasn't a cooler Yeah, let's see if HDMI just doesn't work. Is it working? - [David] Oh, it is. - This card just works. Wow yeah, this card's going We got it for 103. Hell yeah. Call it won big win. Oh, I don't wanna take I'm gonna break the pin probably. Just gonna use a little and stick some many heat that aren't going to be to the heat sink. The rest I think is gonna be totally fine with just air flow Yeah, I hope it still works. (upbeat music) For cooling, I'm going to Hell yeah. And now we just have to plug it in without breaking the pin off again. This pin is falling off so I'm going to just use our Can't believe this card is working. The only thing I can that it had the stock thermal and it was just completely dried out. So maybe it was just booting up, almost immediately overheating &quot;Ah, it's dead.&quot; Well, the score did increase a fair bit by turning the fan up. Now, it isn't quite as fast as I want. It is getting up to about 83 degrees and we're probably losing Although look at this thing, it's working. I can't believe it. This thing's is sick. Big W. Here's our final card. And it's another one that's We have parts of it right here. Look, even just on the We're gonna see what we can do though. Let's take it apart and we might have another These thermal pads seem little bit wet. It's not looking good, David. What's on the go here? Oh, this is bad. This is really bad. Just look at the corrosion on I feel like this card one or Either we clean it up by schmoo up in here just or it's completely dead. It's probably completely dead. Oh, this is terrible. This thing's not surviving this David. so, oh, where do we even start with this? It's completely black. And there's just, I don't It looks like the PCB here, yeah, its just completely lifted up. There's a pad here that's Yeah, the PCB's kind of Some of it just came off as I touched it. That's a good sign. It's also really hairy. I'm not a huge fan of that. Let's see who else we can find on here. Yeah, so this resistor is just crumbling. I don't know what to say other than, I don't know enough about electronics to really comment on this of everything that's We'll give it a clean at This poor card. What I find really interesting that it's water cooled and it but I don't think that the in any way to the water cooler. I mean, everything around the dye and around this all looks fine. It just kind of seems like on this corner. It's kind of hard to see But if I look in this, there's and I don't think it's a via, or it might have been at one point, but it's much more than It's almost resistor-sized through a couple layers. It looks like a cap exploded but there's no caps It's just something very bad got on this and stayed on it for quite a while. Oh yeah, that just came right off. I think we just chuck this in the PC, see if it does anything. There's no coming back The only way to save this it's just full zombie. Just pretty much everything Get like an external 12 and hook it up, rate We might as well try the card, I don't even think it's worth the time to put that cooler back on. I'm just gonna hold this up to of the dye. I have been wrong before, but nothing... Yeah, I don't think it's worth It's mangled. This one's a no. We paid $400 for this David. - [David] You can buy a - Yeah, that's bad. Aside from what we just there are a couple more methods to try and bring them back from the dead. Like for instance, our RX 580 here, where we were able to by just getting lucky But on most cards you To try and fix those, you can use one of these guys right here, a BIOS flasher. And you can pick these up With this, you can flash without even needing to power the GPU on. The best resource I from Defdog that goes over the operation in excruciating detail. If all else fails, there's Linus did make a video on but maybe don't watch that. Half the video is him just Maybe just read this article by iFixit. Basically by heating your GPU if a solder joint is cracked, that the connection gets I have heard people describe but realistically the ovens And if they did, it'll because all of the flux is gone. This is pretty much And even if it does fix your GPU, it's probably gonna last a month or two. So should you buy a and try and fix it? No. I think you agree, David. - Absolutely no. - This was fun. I enjoyed looking at how that I paid $400 for. I wouldn't recommend it. Sure, you'll still can get lucky, like with our 580 or 980 Ti, but multiple of these at repair done to them. If you're looking at less powerful cards, then maybe you can find It's not too expensive. But given the current price of GPUs, there's a lot of incentive for repair shop to try and fix these and On top of that, even if you have a full blown you might just not be able If something breaks, like a MOSFET, you can get it from but memory or dye and a lot you just can't buy them, and it sucks. If someone out there knows So huge thanks to Origin PC their Millennium 5000T worked And it was really nice and thermals are not in their testing. The fact that you can swap out components without avoiding the warranty And also just look at it, so much RGB. It looks cool. So thanks for watching this video. Hit like, get subscribed. And if you wanna watch something else, maybe watch our crazy They were bad. (Linus chuckles)