&gt;&gt; Welcome everybody. I'm going to be--try to be short because we're a talk after us. So, today we're going to have a talk about, I think it's important. I think if we really want to make a denting stuff as well. And for this purpose, we have today Dr. Joe had a NASA Chair Professorship position at He worked at NASA for 10 years as a technology and propulsion researcher. He's basically a rocket sciences guy. He--their manage--manage the Emerging Propulsion Marshall Aero launch team, as well as a variety After rendering a doctorate degree in mechanical Huntsville, he spent several years as a research the UAH Propulsion Result--Research Center, and manager for the Solar Thermal Laboratory. He has worked as a senior mechanical designer manufacturing at--and at the Lawrence Livermore program. He's a graduate from the United States Military I think you'll find out that he knows what what he has to say. So, please give him a warm welcome. Thank you. &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: Thank you. That was a great introduction. It's a blessing to be here. I have a lot of material to go over so I'm and jokes and go right to it. I planned to be talking about this in context comments for there to get through the material One note in the beginning, I come here as I don't represent any agency or organization. There's a loose fitting group of people around They're interested in this field; both in we all have day jobs, fortunately good paying And so, we come to give this information out thorium as an energy source. Outline; I'm just going to mention that I taught that as well as my thermodynamics and You only see a little bit there of that. Some assumptions; I'm assuming that most people It's global in nature, it's--nobody's got the quick fix is. Thorium is not going to be commonly known Increased electrical capacity is very important And the last thing is, energy equates the the last green energy forums I was at listening full time and hard labor, 365 days a year You can see that that level of energy is what This slide comes from Lawrence Livemore Laboratories. It's one that I would spend a long time on. I think it has a lot of great points to be I just say that if you don't know what quad It's a lot of blot of energy and if you just States and break it up into 100, you get 100%. So you can see, oil is around 40% and that You can see that most people would say we And notice that the desirables are pretty These are the ones we would probably want We have huge energy losses and electricity Conservation is great, we do it at home. Mostly engineers, if they don't have to create they would like to minimize that. But at the same token, you can see that we've And that conservation as much as we want to, these two areas. The other thing is, if you notice right here, Thermodynamics says you always have to have You always have to move energy. One example I talk about is wind; that you windmill behind it and you're going to extract but there's a fundamental limit. If you put too many of them in there, you'll there's no air flow, okay, you've actually until you get no energy. So, there's a fundamental limits to thermodynamics. You always have to have some lost there. And of course, most people would consider flow into cars or transportation areas as So, what you really want to do is, if you order of this size, you really want some new know, it comes in, it can be readily built Something like fusion, right? Everybody would like to see that. Well, I'm here to talk about thorium and whether And also, what's the best way to extract that Now, we're now getting to--go out of details, it in a normal reactor and you get some benefits But it's not an end-all and it doesn't extract like to and it doesn't mitigate all the problems Thorium; just for background, is an element. 1828, it was discovered. It is slightly radioactive. It got a very long half-life, that's why it's along with uranium, most of it comes from Just a little bit of thorium that's always The only thing I'm going to say here is that anything of much these days. It is a metal. It's got a very wide liquid range, some other I'm not going to go into any other details deal. Now, this is a log scale of what's available beginning, you have oxygen, silicone, aluminum. Down here, at a 100 parts per million, in and at--towards the bottom, you got lead and And you can see I expanded this little area Uranium is about four times less than thorium. Boron, which some talks have a--even at Google, right. It's there. It's readily available but what's interesting the one fissile material, it actually split, So, thorium, on theory--theoretical basis; reserves. To put this in perspective, one would say, energy generation in the United States that that. A lot of other energy sources will play but One mine can produce about 40--500 metric the amount. The United States has actually--the government They didn't know what to do with it. After paying for it and storing it, they just And you can imagine that's--even at this--huge In a practical sense, this would last us probably And you've certainly have plenty of thorium That's not enough. Like fusion, we can go to moon. The difference is there, we don't have to Thorium gives a nice signal and you can detect the hotspots are, you know that there's a Mars. So, we know that it's out there and the asteroids, Now, because of my systems engineering background, you is in the vain of how do you select things And this comes from the aerospace that about going to be locked in the first initial decisions And that pretty much for all technologies pretty well true, 70%-90%, somewhere in there. And the reason is that it sets your theoretical least real world knowledge of how you're going this project. So you--the thing I try to teach is you look at least--reasonably untouchable and a growth what your goals are. So let's take nuclear technology that we see You know list the pros and cons that are shown Most people recently have looked at, you know, in this case, about 3rd comes from electricity Nuclear doesn't have that. Now, to be very honest, one would have--and this make when I go to build a plant and how In the case of a nuclear energy, there is of energy a nuclear plant produces, this is no CO2, but it's something you need to be What if you can take some of the cons out and terrorist or proliferation issues and It sounds like what fusion wants. Another thing on systems engineering is the I can't go through all these but obviously anything that you have to deal with, the overall just convenient. It drives--90% of the time, it drives the maybe not in a particular market but across And you'll see that that's very important And example that comes into mind is the cost the end user, and all these other factors I'm not going to go into a big detail. This is, you know, information that's available Natural gas turbine engines is about one-tenth plant and a nuclear plant is actually pretty But you see that in recent years, what are We're building these very expensive, difficult yet we're building more of those. Why? Well, because overall, the resources necessary makes you go for these things. And that's what--that what's been happening. So, in the light of the--what fusion wanted That was one of the jokes. Today, we have basically large plants although talking about making fusion in a way that's I would love that to happen but basically, they use a lot of it--they produce a lot of in producing the energy. So your net gain is not as good as you would Kind of get into the history as well as the a little bit about thorium and why we ended Three basic nuclear fuels everybody should found, that's what we can start with. These two have to come from fertile material, nature. And in history, everybody was working on weapons need a weapon designed, you need fabrication For the uranium-238, you need a neutron source You chemical separate, you need a new weapon a slightly better bomb, so I'll say on that. And thorium, well, they discovered, you need chemical separation, but then there's some go to an enrichment facility but it's a hot You need yet a new weapon design, a new fabrication Well, obviously, these two are what the world Well, at the same time, most of the people people trying to say, &quot;What good can we do An electricity production was one of them They had the same materials to start with. You need enrichment or heavy water production, A little bit different--but it's still solid I say short-term electrical power because much uranium-235 was in the world. It was a little bit more than they actually But at world usage at the U.S. levels, it's there will be peak uranium if you--if you Well, you can go with breeders; fast spectrum controls. We'll talk about that in little bit more. Some fuel design and you get electrical power of plutonium which has been used for nuclear or of course, you can use that for weapons. Thorium, on the other hand looks a little Thermal spectrum, chemical processing and get any extra out of it and I'll explain that Enrico Fermi argued for the plutonium-based And one of the reasons, you get three neutrons you want to look at is this blue line and absorption and you need at least two. You need one to spilt, and one to breed your And so, in reality, you need a little bit reactor, you got to make it reasonable. So you have to work this thing, it doesn't have to work up here in the--near the--what You're using now the fast neutrons coming You're not slowing them down in a thermal--in And you can see that this number really climbs more than two, which means you get production of plutonium. Well, Eugene Wigner at the time argued, &quot;Well, want to base our economy on thorium.&quot; It's more available and more important. It runs on a neutron spectrum--a thermal spectrum control and you can, you know, use these reactors. It is--this is a very difficult reactor, very But of course, it doesn't produce much because two and a half and the actual absorption averages So you're above two which is enough, but with a whole lot of extra material out of this--out Well, historically, what did we do? We went from weapons to--they're not on the There is Eisenhower's Atoms-For-Peace program all this money, we want to look a little bit Let's produce electricity. But you're using the same infrastructures, you poured into here to--Shippingport was that is the base product for our surface ships. So, a little bit of entangled there, it wasn't sense of what's the best way to produce electricity. Well, is that a good or bad decision? Well, I'm not sure I want to sit here and of war, the fact that the weapons were unsophisticated it, the delivery systems were horrible, okay. And so, you needed a large number to be a kinds of things weren't considered as much. Compared to today, obviously, the very efficient to scale down. We almost have too much material for weapons. And of course, safety environment proliferation Maybe it was right then, maybe wrong today, Well, in the tale of the nuclear reactor thorium, When they see a good idea, they dog it, even the funding was completely cut off, they went don't have ICBMs yet. You need a credible defense to get your weapons time, how about this nuclear airplane?&quot; Now, the only way that this would ever do reactor. And so, they started a program, they sold And I understand that somebody recently has this. I would not like to see nuclear airplanes I can talk about that at some other time for When this reactor program started out, they I believe that maybe the--still a record certainly that hot and that's 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit, Two things that came out of this, one the you were pumping at it, which was really nice, And two, the load-following capability which fact that you wanted to throttle something from the reactor and then throttle back if This reactor in the fluid method was able or conventional reactors. Well, that program died pretty quickly as do the job much better with missiles. A missile program was--went full ahead and The engineers still wouldn't give up, okay. They [INDISTINCT] down in--or Oak Ridge National a small program from '65 to 1969. And the main thing I'll say about this--we're salt reactor Experiment was affected. They ran it 24 hours a day, three shifts everyday to stay for the weekend. So, they shut it down on Friday night and Something that's totally, you know, not even It is a base load, when it goes down, it goes it. The end result today, most people think of very large. They even have some control rods that's so Single fluid which means your thorium is thrown And you do--you do have a processing system; bit later and you have this Brayton Closed-Cycle to this idea. Well, if this was so good and the common question Well, hopefully I kind of hinted at that along industry and the needs there. The fact that this is a liquid system, it's energy, it's a lot of chemistry involved, broken. And Dr. Weinberg who also hones the patents basically train Admiral Rickover and suggested He was hoping that this reactor which he worked reactor technology that would use for electricity. Another person--his memoirs, deputy director an Oak Ridge project and therefore, it was it was very hard to break out of that mold. Again, the existing bureaucracy--I've heard same kind of mindset we are trying to break, All right, why is it so different? Liquid core, I mentioned that and the fact chemical processing system. And you can see at room temperature--this it up, it becomes a liquid, a little bit thicker Last thing on the history, Admiral Rickover a gigantic organization to build not only it stands today. He's done a very good job as far as establishing that but understand--inherently, it's not It's found in the very strict rules, the blind process that you have to do with the sailors So here's the path that we've taken, the typical the question is have we made the best decision And I'm going to--then propose that LFTR is Some technical details; LFTR is a technology say, it's not a specific design but it has Two fluids, the fact it's atmospheric pressure, It's going to be high-temperature. It's going to have chemical extraction; I'll and then the Closed-Cycle Brayton System instead The reason why you have--this is the chart have extraction is that thorium with the--this becomes thorium 233 which beta decay on 22 Everybody knows what beta decay is--goes to Protactinium, 27 days half-life, it also beta Uranium-233, that's what you'd want to get Now what if we leave the thorium--I mean the happens. You get the same beginning, you get thorium have the problem of absorbing a second neutron And seven and a half hour--or seven hour--or which is not fissile. Now, you could absorb yet another neutron split the 235 but obviously, that chain is would stop under that--on those conditions. And there's all this probabilities of how methods that you have to take into account. So, that's the main reason why you want to So, the architecture for LFTR starts out with hot. The four corners just kind of remind you of to--the goals you're trying to get to which waste reduction, covers that amount of electricity it quickly as well as cost-effective being--effective So, the core is just hot, you can pump in that. The blanket around it reflects the neutrons absorbs and becomes your protactinium. You have to take out the protactinium, there that produces the U233. And you can actually extract the products--the reactor as it's running in this liquid state. Look at the inherent advantage, this is against, goals and you kind of just specifically list, Well, it's a low fuel price, low capital cost, of things--transportation. You break all those down and you trace out and you see whether they're--you're matching to. So, if we pick a couple of these, here's liquid means you don't have any hot spots, which If one spot gets hotter and it continues to You get to burn up all the fuel because it's and no fuel shut down because you can fuel The expandability of the fluid gives you a is where your safety is at. No separate cooling system, that's one less fact that if you're--there is no coolant to a problem. And of course, drainable, you know, I'll give If you have this very small reactor core and hot liquid--as long as you keep that at room or in this case, helium--forced helium tubes, It'll make a plug, if you got a crack in this and probably seal itself, okay, depending But the point is if you lose power, if anything thing this--or this gets hot, too hot for drain into a passive pan which is going to If everything is okay, you just heat it back liquid state, it takes a little while for back in to start up. So, instead of being like really cautious black out half the neighborhood or whatever you can go ahead and shut things down and And immediately go back on line. So, actually there's inherent safety in there the time. Actually, I need to go back. All right. Thorium advantages here, that it was abundant, fissile, okay, it means it's not weapons usefulness again goes to cost and safety, security, can't Look at the uranium cycle compared to the lot more mining with the uranium cycle, you everybody recognize that but then you got It's a very expensive process; the security less the actual process. You end up with a whole bunch of depleted not useful in others so I don't know what it sit on the ground, it doesn't go to Yoko You need a very big plant, as you saw before, can hold a ball of steam or any explosion pressure. Big turbine plant next to it and you produce Mountain for 10,000 years. The thorium cycle, you need one ton, this watt for one year and much more plant, low much more efficient as much as 50% efficient do for steam, one ton of fission products. But the big deal here is that in--within 10 down to safe radio--background levels, which were produced in the reactor, there's some that and you'd sell some high quality materials. And the remainder only needs 300 years approximately finding a many places around the world that storage vessels that are, you know, casts Well, proliferation risk; one of the things with the LFTR processes as we see it, there's you just can't help it, I'll show you that And it has a decay chain; it gets you down which makes it a very nasty stuff to deal This is where the uranium gets in--the 232 There are certain reactions that can happen. I don't have time to go through the details. If you have 1% of uranium-232 in the material three minutes, I believe--well, less than rem dose which is considered, you know, your I think it's within a half in it--no, within--yeah, You're feeling the effects of radiation poisoning probably likely to die. So, it's very hard to handle, it also means as a material for weapons, it would be a hot The radiation hurts the electronics as well so they don't shift--they do not--their long--not of the reactor--of the bombs, so. Okay. On the fluoride salt itself, ionic chemical I'll show that in a minute. The fact that it's very high temperature and high temperatures. And again, each one of these things room set, leak resistance, et cetera. So, look at the radiation damage in a conventional It's going to have cladding, all the temperature and that cladding can't break. So--or you lose the noble gases, the krypton And so, you end up having to pull out this fuel because there's physical damage being in a liquid, the ionic bonds don't care. They're going to move around as they need ability to withstand a lot of punishment in Another point of this is that the salt are briefly demonstrate that, here is a typical the better minus 104 and this the freeb--free A chemist will say you need a difference of or a vessel material such as--here's iron between those two. So, it's pretty chemically stable, considered Internal processing; we have minimal, physical--inventories fabrication, obviously that drives a lot of both poisons and valuable materials out of This is a little more detailed than the one What you're doing is you're pumping out of gas through the salt and all the uranium products which means it's a gas and you pull it out not burned into the reactor. The rest of the salt goes through, you get products and what's left here is you can separate And this will probably take an economic analysis separate these things. You do need a central location plant where out and centrally process or do you incorporate within the reactor itself? This would all be self-contained in a reactor The blanket on the other hand comes out and extraction column--if a chemist--it's like But they say that's a bad word so don't use For me, it's a catalyst in nature. In fact, that you put in the thorium appear salt and replace the protactinium which can Same thing here, you just flow gas through produced, whenever it's produced is able to the core. And very quickly on the Closed-Cycle Brayton, heat rejection as wall as verbal impact pressure of the system. And this just shows--this is the advanced And again, a very large building, no matter would be very much smaller, the whole reactor entire Brayton system not much bigger. And it just shows again the difference in steam plant and some of the listing of reasons whole system would be significantly less than Okay. Well, the disadvantages, I think I explained It's unknown; it's going to be different from to support. It does need a charge of uranium-233 or some that because it keeps it--the whole reactor And here's a comparison--basically, I've covered waist 130th, 10,000 years versus 300 years, 1% and the best reactors are planning a couple fuel usage, as well as being higher efficiency, And in unique applications, this should scale large plants but it also could spill onto It would obviously be very advantage to the they can't build these--their existing reactors have. We like to talk about submerged units because They put them in rivers and they're very small, And then if you really want to use other processes, it's very useful for--one is mobile. It can go to a site for shell oil extraction. It's--it couples very well with desalination well because of the high temperature nature So hopefully, I've covered a--the brief background. These are the main things that we try to achieve Those were the driving goals and then how or so the specific details are driven by what And the primary reason why most people look of being able to produce a huge amount of per mega watt being produced and can readily So this time, I'll take questions. Yeah? &gt;&gt; The U233 that's re-injected in the core, I mean, it seems that you introduced 232 and near it. &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: All--the--what happens to the in the reactor core? Well, first of all, a reactor--or any reactor It's going to have a lot of radiation going So, adding the 232 in there is not making radioactivity in the core itself. Definitely, there is a small poison that sits It's when you take it out that unless you and the difference is the separation is chemical what you want for the weapon and uranium-232 it's the key chain. It has to be done with separation techniques Did I get the question right in it? &gt;&gt; I was just wondering if it makes the design is actually part of the process? So, you know, if the materials you use for we would run into problems if your plant becomes &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: No because there's--again, the the 233, 232 in the reactor core or as it radioactivity. The decay products in the reactor overwhelm There's just one small source. The reason why it's significant for proliferation because it's from the stuff you want because As far as the reactor itself, any of the pumping to see some level of radioactivity just because Those decay products--what's nice about this you can take them out. The gases, anything like krypton or whatever So, it's actually a cleaner reactor if you radioactivity-wise less. Yes? &gt;&gt; What's your estimated cost for the consumers price if you were handling--what are the barriers &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: What is the price at the meter We haven't gotten that far in economic development The argument here is that the technology and systems engineering point of view that you Exactly, we're estimating 20 to--or I think Remember, everything is being done on everybody's This is a grass root effort that, you know, or somebody else wants to pick this up, it's question. Did I answer the other part of the question? There was cost, electricity and then? &gt;&gt; What are your barriers? So basically, [INDISTINCT] together? &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: Couple of them. One of them would be that, you know, the nuclear You're going to have the government blessing or whatever. There are other countries that are looking And so, I think the barrier is, you know, It is a nuclear process and you're going to make--meet that. Yeah, you go. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] and can you explain that [INDISTINCT] to the slide. The--basically, it's the ability of the reactor temperature goes up. So, as the reactor core--a normal reactor, the core temperature--what do you call it, power being produced. Okay. Maybe you flow more water through the reactor, This expands itself, the core being liquid the less fuel you have in the reactor, therefore &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] it's thermal [INDISTINCT] It's based on thermal expansion on how much In the same token, if your generators are higher demand, it sends back that fluid colder more energy and it is a natural process within That's a common nuclear, you know, I guess It's how good that coefficient is. Yes? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] what are the engineering challenges Like, it strikes me that, you know, pumping through pipes and pumps and such, it might Could we build one of these [INDISTINCT] guess, is the question pumping hot salts to We do that on a regular basis in the industry. A lot of processes--a lot of industrial processes uses. So, there's presidents that would pump manufactures The temperatures are hot but not, you know, industries. The--obviously, the safety requirements for reactor, it's going have to be really good make sure those pumps are, you know, adequate. But again, even if the pump failed, it doesn't--you hot if the pump stops pumping. The core will get hot over heat, pour out So, if the--there's nothing inherently that It is a big systems engineering problem to and meets all requirements and that all the that we've seen. Yes? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I'm guessing there's some kind of GEN-4 a little brighter or something like this. It looks like six different designs that they're us a little bit about what that is, like what you know? &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: Okay. The question being, what is the GEN-4 or how GEN-4 is a department of energy initiative. It's probably a good one in some ways. They're looking for what's the next generation Technically, malt and salt not LFTR which of GEN-4. My personal take on it when I look at the not sure they're very serious. I think it's--and a round of--and don't quote to go out and write a paper and go to a conference, more serious money. You know, I'll let other people decide what is in, you know, solving energy problems at &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] which is--so Kirk Sorensen one sort of [INDISTINCT] of work on this kind &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: Yes. Kirk Sorensen and I are, you know, this is And that thorium forum is probably the key and work on. &gt;&gt; So, there was another thing in France and working on this stuff... &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: There are several people that--you &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] still working on this stuff to something else? &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: I think he's kind of moved on He was at the Department of the Energy, I the total status. Everybody's got their little ideas of how add thorium to a reactor--the existing reactor Now qualification of a fuel for any reactor is if you're going to spend a lot time and that are running fine or are safe. I would say maybe that's a little too much add it but that's--that is a solution for Thorium in a pebble bed is another one that It's a little bit better than maybe the conventional It's looking more and more like a liquid system. My point is I think you should go to liquid pebble bed or these other concepts, you don't lot of waste that you get rid off. Yes? &gt;&gt; Is this something that you [INDISTINCT] it something that you have to have government &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: Private or government funding. Well, that's up to individuals. Again, the organization--the [INDISTINCT] or working with doesn't have any answer to It is--it would be daunting for private funding, Certainly, the navy would be a prime example has the same problem that the Department of They're kind of fixed in a certain pattern. It's very hard to break that. So, if somebody wants to take it to the next without the nuclear material, a private company to say, &quot;Yes. You can use uranium-233.&quot; Which there is actually a lot of stored and That's a said way the government is looking They haven't done it yet but there are plans So, if I was a private company or private had somebody in the government side saying, We will hold that fuel. And yes, we will let you utilize that,&quot; because in order to start the process. Okay, any other questions? All right, one more. &gt;&gt; So you're not [INDISTINCT] pursuing a path invisible but is there a free path of, you to get research? &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: I think there are efforts that--I are the paths that we're pursuing or the path than the education process that we're attempting Yes, there is. There's attempt to talk to people both in When I was Naval Post graduate School, the that it was very interesting what it could We need to do some more studies like that. I suspect that is going to come out, I think energy research that's going to be done or out which way we want to go. The thorium will be--and LFTR specifically What comes out or who stands up and says, Let's do this,&quot; or provide funds to do this, And I have talked to other people, you know, we've done, you know, and share that information. Okay. No--last minute question. One more, okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, in considering--yes, it seems like if you know, mindset, roadblock kind of going you [INDISTINCT] anti-nuclear, go to the administration this and make it, you know, maybe--you can &gt;&gt; BONOMETTI: Yes, going to the top. Again, not really a question but a statement and getting him to look at this and, you know, certainly would help. I mean, that's the easy path if we can do People are working on those kinds of things. Like I said, I think it's a credible story, at it seriously and enough to seriously look point? What are those roadblocks and is it just, we have? That's a good question. Okay. Thank you very much.