(whimsical music) - Hi, friends. I hope you're If you're not, I'm sorry about it. My name is Bailey Sarian, and the library of Dark History. Woo! If you're knew here, hi. This is a safe space for all who think, hey, is as it seemed in school? Oh, nay, nay. This is where we can learn together about all the dark, mysterious, dramatic stories our teachers never told us about. Intro! I don't know about you guys, but I never got the whole, My friend Martha though, yeah, she was like super into She was one of those people who, like, stood outside the Total screaming her head off like, &quot;Marry me, Brittany,&quot; you know? I never understood why people did that. It just seemed random. Look, now that everyone left I'm gonna tell you a little secret, okay? I had a secret love Not only did I think Carson Daley was super cute, hot, amazing, oh my God, I wanted be on TRL so bad, but I had a JC Chavez NSYNC before Backstreet Boys. (Bailey snaps) No, I was not here for Backstreet Boys. NSYNC was where it's at, okay? I mean, he was my everything. 98 Degrees. Oh my God, do you remember 98 Degrees? Oh my God, what was that one Do you remember Ashley Angel? Oh! My God, Ashley Angel. Shout out to you, Ashley Angel. Okay, so boy bands, love 'em, and I never really thought about, like, what the actual definition of boy band is. I mean, it seems sort of Boys that are in a band, but then I dug a little this guy, Jason King from He sums it up like this. First, it's a bunch of guys, great. They're in their teens, and can be as old as like Their music is usually pop, or like some sort of And they don't usually but they all play a certain role. The hot guy, the bad boy, Chris Kirkpatrick was there, you know? And in other words, and like the way that they look mattered as much as, if not more I mean, they could be lip So when I think of boy bands, my head immediately goes to but it didn't start there, nay, nay. We'll get to them. Okay, so I'm gonna open to the boy band chapter. I found it, great. So it's probably no surprise predates the actual term. I mean, all those cute and their funny little, but, like, cute little matching sweaters. They're not considered a boy They sang without any instruments and they were all about their image. So, even if they weren't called boy bands, I mean, that's technically what they were. It was called bubblegum and it gave rise to things This is where the idea of boy These were kind of like a social club that happened to sing for people, and it was a group of young guys who would perform a bunch of cover songs that were super catchy. Well, along the way, people realized that these groups had serious broad appeal and could be monetized. One of these people was a Oh, I see where we're going, and he turned his entire family into a money-making machine, bitch. Look, if I'm gonna have a you're gonna all be making me money from a young age, God damn it. So strap those boots on, because we're getting to fucking work. That's what this family did. So the year is 1960. Meet the Osmonds from the state of Utah. Dad, George, mom, Olive, and their four sons, Alan, George was a military man, and the Osmonds were a real picture of the American dream, right? Sounds like it. Well, because George was a military man, he also treated his and what do I mean by that? Well, he made them all sleep and would assign them endless chores to teach them discipline. the entire family would sit and George would make the family sing. You think this might be but their dad, again, military guy, and they came from a very So, pushing back, no, not So he starts training the boys After a few months of practice, word started to spread and they got a big break in the form of a show at Disneyland, which had an audience of just one person, but that's not because the It's because the one man watching the show was looking for some new talent. That man, well, his name was Walt Disney. Yeah, the actual Walt Disney. Now, I can't stress this enough. Getting Walt's seal of approval was huge. If you think Disney is big today, I mean, this guy owned the family during the fifties and sixties. I mean, he dominated it. There was no competition, God damn it, and, honestly, Disney Walt was so impressed by the Osmond kids, he had them sing at their on a show called &quot;Disneyland After Dark&quot;, which was like a variety So, from here, the Osmonds' rise to fame, I mean, bitch, it skyrocketed. They were landing at another specifically &quot;The Andy Williams Show&quot;, which was hugely popular at the time, and the Osmonds were such a hit, they ultimately signed a and moved to Los Angeles, the home of palm trees as long as it's entertaining, of course. So the Osmonds were one of and one of the biggest but while the Osmonds were another family was in their living room in Gary, Indiana, and this family would make Meet the Jacksons. The year, 1963. Katherine and Joe Jackson live in a two bedroom, one bathroom house with, let me look, eight kids. Yeah, that's a lot, my God, and speaking of God, the Jacksons and if you didn't know, Jehovah's Witnesses are sort that have something called which means they don't like mingling with people of other faiths, I should say, and since Joe was a he kept his kids separate One day, while dad was away at decided to play a couple I guess Tito was being because everyone in the family knew you do not touch dad's kids do what kids do, and he Not the whole thing, though. I mean, it was just a dad comes home from he's about to go full-blown, like, psychopath, killer, out for blood, but to their surprise, he doesn't. He just sits Tito down along like, &quot;Show me what you got.&quot; They do, and Joe is like, holy but he doesn't just support He names himself their manager and immediately puts them to work, and this was the creation of It wasn't an accident that I mean, he had been a musician himself, and much like George Osmond, Joe worked his kids to the bones. I'm talking hours of rehearsal and in case you forgot, Joe kept his kids separated So, on top of being Joe worked his sons to the point of exhaustion and then some, because anyone who didn't work enough, according to Joe's standards, was met with a few swings of his belt. I mean, he was known to beat Just super fucked-up shit, you know? Finally, in 1967, The Jackson Five performed which is a theater rich in history when it comes to Black performers. So, it's a huge accomplishment, but it's nothing like the Osmonds had access to with Disney and &quot;The Andy Williams Show&quot;, and their first performance It was a talent show, but The Jackson Five eventually caught the attention of a now iconic record label and appeared on &quot;The Ed Sullivan Show&quot;, which was even bigger than Mm, so rivalry between the Now, funny, Donny and Michael, the two lead singers of the but the press and others acted as though they were in competition with one another. Now, it's important to note that, while the Osmonds quickly worked their way into the hearts and minds of America, it was a bit more of a Remember, this is all happening in the United States in the 1960s. I mention this because the United States liked its We've already touched on this in both the jazz and the rock and roll episodes, so I'm not gonna dive too deep into that. I highly suggest you go listen to those episodes if you haven't, but it's worth pointing out the difference in perception Either way, with the backing their career exploded, just releasing hit after hit after hit. I mean, people will be 1,000 years from now. So, full-on Jackson not just the United States, but, I mean, I'm talking the globe, okay? But the smiley, happy family wasn't so happy behind closed doors. The Jackson Five only received So, if you can't math If the band earns a hundred but then it has to be split five ways because there's five people in the band, so that's 60 cents each. Now, I don't know what but to me, that feels supremely unfair, but it's a bit of foreshadowing Well, The Jackson Five began to unravel first with the departure and then when Michael So, The Jackson Five's rising much more quickly than the Osmonds', even though they'd go a powerhouse in musical history, and the Osmonds would kind but the idea of the boy it went global, and unfortunately, you know, but, first, we're (ominous piano jingle) You guys know I love that my SimpliSafe home but it's not always outside forces that you need SimpliSafe's Meet Amy, a SimpliSafe customer who lives near a four-lane highway. Uh-oh, that's not good, Amy. One night, a few months ago, she slept-walked out of her bedroom and then continued right Now, that is a very She could have walked herself but most of all, she really Luckily, as she walked out of her house, the SimpliSafe entry triggered the 95 dB siren Now, this is loud. It's loud enough, in fact, to wake her up before she wandered into the Seconds later, Amy even checking to make sure Now, Amy, she was a little Amy actually says that, SimpliSafe saved her life. Protecting people in ways is just one of the reasons more than 4 million people I love SimpliSafe because they have all of your safety needs covered. From window door sensors like to their wireless outdoor security camera, SimpliSafe has everything needed to make you feel safe in your home. I love the wireless camera as to, like, what's going but, also, there's been a lot of package pirates so now I can see when and hopefully beat them to it. The package pirates are coming for me. You can customize the in just a few minutes at Go today and claim a free plus 20% off with interactive monitoring. Go to SimpliSafe.com/DarkHistory. (ominous piano jingle) Bienvenidos a Puerto Rico! Okay, I gotta look over there's someone watching me right now. If you know what that means, help me out. There was the home of a Now, Edgardo was born in 1947, and after he graduated where he got a job managing a musical group made known as La Pandilla. La Pandilla was inspired by the success of groups like and while Edgardo was managing the band, he noticed two things. One, their fan base was Two, the most popular members but as the boys got older, Plus, as the boys went through puberty, their voices changed, requiring the band to alter This gave Edgardo the idea that was only boys between that sounds so creepy, Edgardo would replace them. With dollar signs in his eyes, putting together a group he called Menudo. Oh my God, I've learned two things today. Pittsburgh is in Pennsylvania. Menudo is Puerto Rican and Spanish for small. So, Edgardo named the how different all of its small Other than being young, the for the members of Menudo from good families who or become addicted to drugs. He's not asking for much, I guess. Now, you may wonder why to just join a band and travel the world with this man, Edgardo. Well, he frequently targeted boys whose families needed the money, and once Menudo was a household name, the question wasn't like, why would you let your kid hit the road with Edgardo and Menudo, but One historian refers to them Well, that's not because It's because Edgardo just when he felt like it, like they were machines in I don't know about you, but Like, gross. He's spending a lot of specifically between Like, oh, okay, that makes sense. Immediately, Menudo was a and other parts of the Actually, huge success You know how the Jacksons People went so freaking crazy for Menudo. I mean, fans would wait for over 24 hours outside of venues or hotel rooms to see the members of Menudo. Some of them would find out which rooms the boys were would wait under their beds to see them. I think that's illegal, and but three stories of fans crawling through the just to get to Menudo. You freaking crazy asses. And then once Menudo made American music fans got struck with this amazing band as well, with their first US release in 1983 selling 750,000 records in under a year. Now, the Washington Post said Menudo was the first to break the language The following year in 1984, they had sold 8 million records worldwide. (Bailey clapping) Bravo. We love to see it. This was also the year that the most famous person to That's right. The same year Menudo none other than Mr. Ricky Ah, I loved Ricky Martin, oh my God. So, before he was Livin' La Vida Loca, the poor guy was exposed Dad jokes, full of them, I guess. But, by 1991, 28 boys at this point had been a part of Menudo. They'd average about and then just kind of move on. I don't know about you, but something has to be to walk away from being So, you know how I said the no drug use thing? Well, in 1990, two members after being arrested for but when the press asked them about it, the members said they got the weed from none other than Edgardo himself. So, he announced he was doing drug tests, and the whole story blew wide open. Later in 1991, four members saying Edgardo was verbally abusive and playing games with their there were allegations that Edgardo was sexually assaulting Edgardo used the accusations to his advantage, saying were just a way to strike back at him. Well, to put it lightly, For starters, there was Edgardo forced a then-teenage Ricky Martin to dress up in women's clothing and then another member of Edgardo having sex with an Edgardo, you nasty ass. You nasty! Now, to this day, no member of the group but that's not an indication of innocence. While Menudo was tearing up the boy bands continued to and in 1980s Massachusetts, another phenomenon was coming together. This was none other than New Edition. Now, remember those barbershop Mhm, well, New Edition Three of the founding members, already had a singing group, and then they recruited two Now, the five of them became New Edition. Now, urban legend says when one of the band members' and was like, wow, you guys are like the new edition of The Jackson Five! New Edition differed from unlike the Osmonds, the they formed their own band. Good for them. In December of 1981, the guys The winner got a recording deal with a producer named Maurice Star. Ironically, they came in second, but Maurice was so blown away by them, he offered the guys a record deal too. Their first release hit number but it was sitting firmly at number one on the Billboard Hot Black Singles chart. Anyway, with their charting success, they hit the road for their Now, when they returned, they were handed their Each of them received, Joan, drum roll. (drum roll plays) Great, a dollar and 87 cents! Great. That's just great. Awesome. I mean, it When they wondered why, the rest of the money was So what did they do? Well, they sued Maurice, The lawsuit was eventually but the damage was done. New Edition and Maurice parted ways. The band continued on and so did Maurice. In fact, Maurice went on to create a group that absolutely owned the and he did it by doing the same thing he did with New Edition. Now, he named this new group and this was kind of like a So the guys who became originally called themselves Nanook, but Maurice thought the name I mean, it doesn't, and he came up with something a little catchier, okay? Something that could easily but people wouldn't be confused for long, because all of the members and this was intentional. Marie said, quote, &quot;If New I could imagine what could happen if white kids were doing And he was right. By 1988, their second album Not quite Menudo big, but people gave them more credit. Unlike a lot of other New Kids On The Block didn't really have that and ended up being one pop bands of the late learned his lesson from his So you're probably thinking, well, why am I telling you about Well, hush your little lips, sugar. It's because one man having set in motion one of the darkest scandals in the world of boy bands. Oh, shit! But we're gonna take a Tell me why, ain't Tell me why, I never Why so many ad breaks (ominous piano jingle) There are certain people that just make my life so much easier. I am so thankful that I have who help me with Dark because, let me tell you, there's a lot. There's a lot of information and a lot of work that goes into this. I'm not complaining. I'm just saying, I don't know It's like if you own a growing ZipRecruiter makes hiring so much easier, because they do the work you can try it for free at Now, ZipRecruiter uses to find and match the right You can easily review these and invite your top choices to apply. Additionally, ZipRecruiter that makes it easy to filter, review, and rate your candidates. Four out of five employers get a quality candidate So no wonder ZipRecruiter is the number one rated hiring site based on G2 satisfaction ratings as of January 1st, 2022. Okay, ZipRecruiter, got In fact, the hardest remember our special URL. ZipRecruiter.com/DarkHistory. That's where you go to Once again, that's D-A-R-K-H-I-S-T-O-R-Y. ZipRecruiter, the smartest way to hire. (ominous piano jingle) Welcome back. So we have George and but there's one boy band manager that puts all of these men to shame. Enter to the scene the man who called himself and Backstreet Boys, Lou Pearlman. Lou was born in Flushing, New he wasn't really a popular kid, and this will become a theme, okay? Like Daddy Jackson, in his high school and college days. His first cousin was Art Garfunkel, as in Simon and Garfunkel. So, from an early age, Lou was really interested in because, honestly, he didn't have a face, body, or voice to be on stage, you know what I'm saying? Not to be shady, but, I'm not wrong, okay? When he was a teenager, he managed a band, but he never really found so he turned to another field. Fraud, you know? Like, that's where you go sometimes. As the story goes, he through a bit of insurance fraud, where he bought a blimp crashed it, and collected a Then, Lou moved to Orlando, Florida to set up a shell company that chartered flights for It was also the home of but we'll talk about that later. Anyway, this company is because this is what with none other than New Kids chartered one of Lou's planes, and when he met these dapper young fellas, he was like, what? How can these kids afford And when he found out like 200 million in record sales and 800 million in Lou was like, shit, I'm So, Lou put out a casting call with his eye on creating Now, this is how Lou met Nick, AKA the Backstreet Boys, hey! So, all these managers seemed You meet one guy, sign him, and he recruits the rest but Lou's story comes with a bit of twist, because he set up a house for these five teenage guys to live in. It was kind of like a content house before a content house Yeah, Lou was on it. So, they could, you know, spend all of their time rehearsing, right? And these guys were living just the life. No parents, no bra, no panties. (Bailey chuckles) That's so funny, Bailey. I'm so funny. Papa Lou, as they came to call him, which is like super creepy, drove them around in He took them out to fancy restaurants. Oh my God, he's like a pimp! He took them out of school! Oh my God, I just had an epiphany, but that's literally how they get you, like sex trafficking or pimps. Like, that's fucked, ew. Not only did he promise them but it seemed like he was I mean, Lou was their guy on they wanted to be in so badly. Chris Kirkpatrick said, quote, it was like you didn't You didn't have to worry about anything.&quot; End quote. Now, I hear you. &quot;Bailey, Chris wasn't in Backstreet Boys!&quot; I know, okay? He was in NSYNC, but surprise, surprise. Lou was also behind NSYNC too, and he started them shortly So let's bring them into Come on in, boys. Just kidding. That'd be so cool, right? Lou exploded onto the and seeing how successful it was, he knew it was a matter of time before someone arrived but Papa Lou had, and I'll a great idea. Why not invent the competition himself so he can reap all the rewards? Smart. So Lou pulled together the that he brought the Then he set up the NSYNC guys and they were off and running, they needed to rehearse, very Lou set the guys up in one and now you might think Working on vocals and choreography, surrounded by a bunch but it wasn't. The hanger was empty. They were rehearsing in a Terrible. And when they weren't they were expected to be working out with their personal Ultimately, these kids, kids, and that's just six hours of sleep, assuming they didn't stop to I don't know, stare at the And immediately went to so probably like four Nick Carter said that the the early days of being in Backstreet boys was by drinking rivers of and then following it up with Wow, party. Those are his words. So these teenage guys had no social life, were becoming addicted to drugs, and lived entirely for their work. No matter how you slice it, it looking to get filthy rich and Papa Lou was well on because, by 1994, a huge record label at the time. It was called Jive Records. Now, the band cut their teeth in Europe before hitting the States, and when they did cross their arrival was fucking massive! They released their self-titled What songs did this album feature? Just two little hits called &quot;Quit Playing Games (With My Heart)&quot; and &quot;Everybody (Backstreet's Back)&quot;. By 1999, 28 million copies of I mean, I had one, did you? Let me know down below. This is before the days of where single song play People would camp out at just to get their hands on it, bitch. Teens would literally sleep on concrete just to get this damn CD, album, whatever, and TRL fed this frenzy. Backstreet Boys were so famous that, when they appeared on TRL one time, 5,000 screaming fans flooded Times Square. It got so crowded that police literally had to and they did it again three days later to another 5,000 screaming fans. With all the success, They went from rehearsing to doing interviews, and then rehearsing 18 hours a day. Could you imagine? Man, like, when you're young, you always kinda wanna but then when you hear I wouldn't be able to do that as a kid. As a kid? No. Anyways, so, I mean, Backstreet Boys, obviously, they were crushing it, okay? And it was proof Papa Lou could make good on what he was promising. Meanwhile, NSYNC is waiting in the wings, itching to get a taste of this success. They're ready for their time Lou didn't look at these They were competitors. In fact, Lou had set up NSYNC So, a little scandalous, you know? One source reports that Lou outright said, where there's Coke, there's Pepsi. Part of Lou's manipulation was playing Backstreet Boys So, Lou gets to work, stirring up his own competition Remember how the world was told the Osmonds and the Well, honestly, that shit He was like, if anyone's it's gonna be me! The tension between the bands Backstreet Boys was taking and NSYNC was kind of circling the drain, which was a little odd, because their front Disney star Justin Timberlake. So, they're a little confused, right? Funny enough, their break exhausted from the insane turned down a Disney Channel concert. Oh, shit. Well, the NSYNC guys jumped They're ready, and this The Disney Channel concert and, suddenly, NSYNC was just Their debut album jumped from 82 on the Billboard They even had their own crazy TRL moment where an NSYNC fan threatened after she got an NSYNC Can we roll the clip? (crickets chirping) No? All right. So, Lou's plan paid off better than he ever could Part of the success was When he was with the guys he'd say things like, have you guys seen what NSYNC is doing? Have you guys noticed that? And then when he was with the NSYNC guys, he'd trash talk about Backstreet Boys. I mean, it all worked in Lou's favor, because no matter how people were talking about both bands. Who cares whether it's Coke or Pepsi when you can just own the Well, let's pause for a Go get some soda, I guess. (ominous piano jingle) Sometimes you have to ask yourself, hey, how have I been caring for myself lately? You know, have you? You know, whether it's going on a morning stroll, which is what I like to do every day, or indulging in midday naps. Oh, love that. Pair your self-care ritual with Calm and take your wellness to the next level. Today, I'm partnering with Calm, the number one mental wellness app, to give you the tools that You can reduce stress and anxiety through guided meditations, improve focus with curated music tracks, and rest and recharge with Calm's imaginative sleep stories There's even new daily movement sessions designed to relax your body I personally love the specifically bamboo forest. Oh, yeah, I'm in the bamboo forest, babe, and, recently, I've been loving I just pick a soundscape, set the timer, and drift off to sleep. They have so many options, so you will definitely find If you go to Calm.com/DarkHistory, you'll get a special offer of 40% off a Calm premium subscription, and new content is added every week. Now, over 100 million use Calm to take care of their minds. Calm is ready to help you and live a happier, healthier life. For listeners of the show, Calm is offering an exclusive offer of 40% off a Calm premium subscription at Calm.com/DarkHistory. Go to Calm, C-A-L-M, dot for 40% off unlimited access That's Calm.com/DarkHistory. (ominous piano jingle) Unfortunately, the drama Lou isn't even close to the worst thing he put the bands through. Back in 1997, Nick Carter Up until this point, Nick to hang out at Lou's house, but something happened that AJ McLean's mom said made Nick scared to go It's not clear what happened, Lou was definitely inappropriate with him, and Nick just felt that he didn't want anything Nick's mom went a step &quot;Certain things happened and I tried to warn everyone. I tried to warn all the mothers.&quot; End quote. What is it? Other bands were more explicit By the time Backstreet boys Lou had stakes in about including a band called Take Five. Now, one of the members said he woke up to Lou standing dressed only in a towel. Ew. Lou did a swan dive onto the bed and then wrestled with the leaving a naked Lou rolling A few days later, Lou security camera footage from his home of a girl group he managed. The group was sun-bathing naked. A grown man showing teen Yeah, he did it again when he promised to and instead, he put on porn. At the time, one of the members &quot;We just thought it was funny. We were kids.&quot; End quote. One of the moms of a learned later that Lou to a strip club. According to her, Lou is I think that sounds about right. Perhaps the worst accusations against Lou came from his former who said that Lou had a history of touching him inappropriately, and worse. He recalls a talk he had with a singer from one of where he asked the singer point-blank if Lou ever groped him, and and when Steve asked what the the singer said, quote, &quot;Look, if the guy wants to massage me and I'm getting a million dollars for it, you just go along for it. It's the price you gotta pay.&quot; End quote. But that's not all Steve knew. If Lou's bedroom doors were closed, Steve said he knew not to disturb him. More than once, he saw young male singers trying to sneak out of The way he describes it is, quote, &quot;There was one guy in every band, one sacrifice who takes it for Lou. That's just the way it was.&quot; End quote. Man, that's so sad. Despite all the allegations he never faced accountability for any of it. To this very day, Lou being inappropriate is a hot button issue A Vanity Fair article about &quot;For every young man or parent who says he experienced or there are two who won't discuss it, and three more who deny End quote. One attorney who was part said, quote, &quot;None of these kids will ever admit anything happened. They're all too ashamed, it would ruin their careers.&quot; End quote. We need to So, the innuendo about weren't enough to take him Remember how one of Lou's singers said getting touched was the sacrifice you pay for pulling in millions? Well, here's the thing. They weren't pulling in millions. According to Lance Bass, the guys in NSYNC and Backstreet Boys were paid only $35 per day and that's how much he Imagine what the other guys were making. Now, to make things worse, after three years of each member of NSYNC was Three years, super popular. You remember. We bought the shirts. We had the posters. We had everything. $10,000. That is all they got for rehearsing, doing press, I mean, not sleeping, not to mention the Poor guys. So, the guys weren't rolling in it, and when they finally got Lou just kind of shrugged it off. They tried to negotiate with Maybe part of the reason Lou he was operating a Ponzi scheme. I mean, he was probably using to keep his other fake businesses afloat. Yeah, what was he spending the money on? Because if you saw this Plus, despite the accusations the guys looked up to The revelations about the money In addition to dealing with the shock of not having the money they they were devastated to Papa Lou was honestly and in order to get out they needed to sue. Let's pause for an ad break. (ominous piano jingle) If you run an eCommerce business, you probably feel like it's about time people stop treating just because they're bigger, I talk about all the time on Dark History how people and companies always get their way, but nay, ShipStation gives eCommerce access to the same deeply discounted rates usually reserved for No wonder ShipStation over 100,000 sellers, and dealing with international because let me tell you, to ship anywhere around the world. So, scale away! ShipStation I know that many of my which is absolutely amazing and inspiring, and turning your passion It could be scary, but also expensive, and if you know me, I'm all So even though ShipStation it's definitely a good place to start. They also work with over 300 platforms like Amazon, eBay, Etsy, and more, to automate processes like so you can save time managing orders. In fact, 98% of companies that keep using it for as long Way to go, ShipStation, wow. Don't let the big guys keep all the good discounts to themselves. Sign up using promo code DarkHistory for a free 60 day trial and start saving with every shipment. That's two whole months absolutely free! Hurry! Yeah, just go to ShipStation.com, click on the microphone and type in DarkHistory. ShipStation, make ship happen. (ominous piano jingle) Quit playing games with my money With my money With my money Thank you so much, you So, when the band sued Lou, they started going through the contracts with actual professionals, You see, Papa Lou set He set it up so he was the earning himself one sixth He then had the guys sign management and recording agreements with his shell company, quote-unquote, charged the and then the contracts also gave Lou and his bullshit which basically means he could enter them into whatever other agreements he wanted. Oh, shit, that's terrifying. So, yes, great singers and dancers, but, holy crap, shitty businessmen. I mean, it makes sense though. They were only teenagers at the time. Nobody knows how to read a contract when you first get introduced to one. So, Lou knew this. I mean, he really took especially by making himself Step one, establish that trust. Step two, exploit that trust. That's what Lou was up to. So what happened? Eventually, through the legal channels, both Backstreet Boys and NSYNC were able to break away from Papa Lou. Still, that didn't reverse the shock, sadness, and anger they felt about all the backstabbing, He just turned his focus all of my favorite bands, the O-Town, LFO, and Take Five, just to name a few. He even tried his luck with a hip hop duo and some they caught on to Lou's shenanigans, all either breaking up and at this point, it who were onto Lou's con job. The FBI was sniffing around too, and they were about to drop the hammer. So, remember earlier when I called Transcontinental Airlines Well, that's because Transcontinental I guess Papa Lou would use his assets, like the Backstreet Boys, and use money from them This, my friends, is and the federal government no likey Ponzi. So, by 2006, Lou knew so he fled the country. The FBI eventually tracked him down all the way in Bali, Indonesia, so when the FBI got there, but, first, they decided to but when they walked into the restaurant where they were gonna eat, they saw Lou Pearlman eating What are the odds of that? So, after everyone ate, including the feds, they arrested Lou. Yeah, they ate first. They literally ate first, I mean, okay. They brought Lou back where he was tried in federal court for three counts of bank fraud, along with wire and mail fraud. Papa Lou was already dabbling in money laundering, conspiracy, and lied at a bankruptcy hearing. He was sentenced to 25 where he was really... Shown the meaning of being lonely Do you see what I did there? I mean, that's larger than life. Eventually, Papa Lou croaked Bye, bye, bye, Papa Lou. Bye, bye, bye, bye, bye (Bailey humming) Whatever. The end of Papa Lou didn't bring Instead of learning from its mistakes, the music business just evolved and spit out new boy band scandals. Lou's shady tactics proved to the world that these bands could and turned into fricking (cash register dings) Now, to these crooked music executives, these weren't teenagers with dreams. They were products to be marketed in order to maximize profit, and this idea would with the rise of K-pop! It just keeps going. It's like a wheel. You get it? Wheel. It's like a wheel. Okay, you guys get it? You'd think that, after decades of abuse, physical, mental, or otherwise, that things, I don't know, maybe would've changed Maybe, I don't know, and to an extent, I mean, maybe it has, but, overseas, the South Korean music Look, you guys, side note. K-pop people, don't come for me. Look, I'm not speaking No, I'm not. Don't come for me. I love you. K-pop has found a way to make factory-made boy bands and girl groups to a whole other level. Bands like Big Bang, Girls' that lean into the intense choreography and pop-influenced dance music and they've managed to find success on an international level since the days of BSB, Unfortunately, while those K-pop has made Lou Pearlman Remember in the Golden when I talked about morality clauses and the contracts actresses had to sign that gave away all of their freedom? Girl, these bands have those too, often abiding by strict image requirements and grueling training. Some of these bands have members have been driven In 2017, Jonghyun from the band I mean, he left a suicide note saying success left him Aw, that's so sad. So when you see what's you can't help but to see exports its pop culture the good is almost always The whole dark story behind boy bands and the trail of damage left behind raises some really interesting issues. Let's start with Lou. At best, we know he was At worst, he was a full-on sexual predator who created a scheme to keep a fresh supply of but what we know for sure is that everything he did was smoke and mirrors. I mean, he was a con man. He manufactured a huge Ponzi scheme, and then he ended up just and while that's great, there are still men like for any of the crimes he committed, and there's another question Where are all the parents this whole time? I don't mean to point but, you know, where were the people who were supposed to be these extremely talented children while they went after their dreams? I guess it's hard to tell your kid no, especially when there's who can deliver that dream, and, honestly, deliver that money, 'cause if I have kids, I'm gonna be, go make your mom some money, okay? So I kind of get it, but, unfortunately, this is what happens with blindly ambitious people. Sure, yes, they made some incredible, amazing, but was it worth it given Well, everyone, a big thank I hope you learned something because, like, of course, we wanna support these 'Cause they're talented. They We just don't wanna see them get abused and taken advantage of. I think that's not a hard ask, but, geez Louise, it seems like we ask too much here on My God. Anyways, remember, don't to get the whole story, Now, I'd love to hear your so make sure to use the so I can follow along. Join me over on my YouTube, where you can watch these after the podcast airs, and also catch my &quot;Murder, which drops every Monday! I hope you have a great day and I'll be talking to you next week. Good bye! Bye, bye, bye, bye, bye That was the right time to do it. Dark History, if you don't This podcast is executive-produced Kim Jacobs, Dunia McNeily from 3 Arts, Justin Comins, and Claire Produced by Lexxi Kiven. Research provided by Romona Kivett. Writers Jed Bookout, Joey Edited by Jim Luci. Shot by Tafadzwa Nemarundwe. And I'm your host, Bailey Sarian! Woo, woo, woo, woo, woo, woo! Ah! Ah! Okay, bye! I thought you guys were gonna clap.