[music] &quot;Are there bears here?&quot; Yes. [in Italian] Everything has life. Everything is alive. We are traveling along one of the oldest and most What is happiness to you? Well... What complex things you ask me. My name Giuseppe and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most extraordinary And to ask them a simple question: &quot;What does happiness mean to you?&quot; Welcome to Progetto Happiness. THE TRAIL OF THE SAMURAI Tokyo, with its population of 40 million, is the largest city in the world as well as the most technological. Beginning in the 1950s, became a symbol of which resurrected from as the world's second-largest betting everything on technological Today it is nicknamed the &quot;Cyborg City.&quot; But is this really the soul of Japan? We are about to begin a In the collective imagination, as a big super-technological robot, but apart from Tokyo and Osaka, in small towns they still It may sound absurd, but it's true. This sharp contrast between can be seen in a special where time seems to have And that's where we're headed. [music] Crazy, everything is like in anime. This is the first stage, Nagiso. Or maybe it says &quot;station,&quot; I don't know. Everything is totally different from the cars still make me smile because they look like You don't know what a thrill I had dreamed of this moment I've visited Japan many times before, but not the real Japan. Here you can breathe in the We are traveling along one of the oldest and most Between 1600 and 1800 it connected to Edo, which is present-day Tokyo. The peculiarity of this path beautiful &quot;postal towns&quot; were These were centers of communication or couriers would come to very important information. In addition, it was a place where they could stop to rest and change horses. They were protected, since bandits because these cities were Samurai were brave warriors, Skilled masters in the art of warfare and disciplined in the martial arts, but at the same time refined This dualistic nature between strength and wisdom Their lives were defined by Bushido, a moral code based on principles such as courage, honor and loyalty. Death in battle was preferred to shame, and service to one's feudal lord Even today, the legacy embodied in the timeless values Through time the samurai but their spirit lives on, and in the identity of Japan. Suddenly, from a traditional a gentleman appears with He asks me to show And so, somehow we begin to talk. Where do you sleep? Sleep... Here? Futon? Yes. 89 years old! 89? 89 years old! I am a young man. The mailman has arrived, At 89, he has the flexibility of a child. I could never kneel like that. [speaking Japanese] This is the living room? Ah, sure. Futon. Futon here. Now it looks empty, but which are their mattresses, When they don't have to So the room remains empty, simple. Clearly all the traditional reflect the philosophy of wabi-sabi, that is, the philosophy of which is found The house is so simple that but the gentleman See how they hang shirts. Crazy! So they don't even have to iron. I make videos. My job is to make videos. Advertisement? You are a video maker, aren't you? I don't understand what you are asking. Excuse me. No, no, no. Do you have WiFi here? So we can... Your WiFi? Do you have WiFi? [in Japanese] Because we have no connection with this gentleman, but if he has WiFi I can connect with total peace of mind because as you know, we use NordVPN. I have been keeping the NordVPN To surf online in total anonymity, protecting my privacy and sensitive data. NordVPN hides my real IP and the sites I visit This way I avoid many measures Like watching Italian I can watch foreign TV series that would not be available in Italy. Or even more useful, getting better deals on flights and hotels by For me it becomes essential, because when I connect to some networks may be to break into my network Whereas with NordVPN even if I make a mistake - English no? No English, Scottish. He's nice. Finally, we were able to communicate using his Internet and But when you go online be sure to always use NordVPN. I will leave you a link in the description to get a great deal and try NordVPN. He doesn't need NordVPN. I won't tell him about it. Look at his cellphone. Beautiful. I lived here from my birth &quot;What is your philosophy My life philosophy. What complex things you ask me. The most important thing is One must live with the One should not let the transience but always live as a young man. And also, drink some sake. Sake? A little bit of sake. Yes, drink some sake The truth, however, is the love I have had for since I married her and we - Thank you very much. Thank you for this wonderful talk. -Welcome to Tsumago. The lower we bow, So let's see if... Thank you! He bowed even lower than I did. Thank you. [music] The Nakasendo Trail passes which are not only but also by bears. For this reason, along the path there are these little bells to also warn bears of The more I go into the forest, a little bell that seems And so I decide to follow the noise that it's a mushroom hunter to keep the bears away. I am following him, that I'm keeping him company But I am curious Communication is limited, I have to translate We are more or less getting by. I understood that he is a mushroom picker and he also set traps for animals. We are going there now. He seems like an interesting Maybe I should ask him an Yosushi, excuse me. &quot;Are there bears here?&quot; I am afraid of the answer. Yes. Ah! Okay. &quot;And if we see one, what should we do?&quot; [Japanese translation] Please don't move. Okay, okay. He has classical Japanese They are called chikatabi. They divide the big toe They give him more grip on the ground. Perfect for going in the mountains. It is counterintuitive; but he uses them in the Because he is so fast. -Eat! -Is it good? We found some mushrooms. In addition to being one of the most in Japanese cuisine, in traditional medicine increase stamina, For this reason, in Japanese folk legends it is said that eating When I enter the forest, become sharper in the silence. I listen to them and my body negative ions that make I hope very much that I can always live in synergy with the mountain all my life. What makes me happiest is the thought that I can continue to live like this and considering the mountain my home. In Japanese culture, this is called shinrin-yoku, It is an age-old Japanese practice. It consists of immersing oneself to achieve mental and It is not just a simple nature walk, but the experience of becoming experiencing sounds, scents, light and contact with trees and plants. Japanese doctors prescribe it and to improve the immune system. Through sensory awareness forest bathing is an opportunity This practice invites you and to find our balance in an In ancient times, pilgrims who slept in minshuku, They are homes of local to travelers who passed We are going to sleep in one a minshuku that is in which even great Each of these little houses such as this one. Do you see that ball? It is called sugidama. It is which are initially green, it means the sake is ready. It can be found outside sake factories, so I assume they produce sake in here. Every place, every little has a special feature like this. This should be our minshuku. And those are the mattresses to air out and they're which is a mattress that Let's go. Finally we are inside the It is a centuries-old historical minshuku. Yoko, who is the owner of Yoko, I beg your pardon, hi. Yoko, the owner of this minshuku. She is explaining to me that samurai have also slept here. Even the samurai slept here. Yes, a long time ago. Now she is preparing our little room. This is the futon? That's right. Futon, tatami. And that is? Yukata. Is the yukata like pajamas? Yes. Thank you. I don't want to bother her too much. She is busy arranging the rooms. We've set up here. There is Nick, he will sleep there. Very nice, really cozy. You walk around without shoes. You always have to be The roof is very low. Minshuku perfectly reflects especially in the home, everything reduced to its essence to give more importance For example, this is a bedroom which is this mattress you sleep right on the ground. This is the classic tatami. How curious, they don't But they only cover the They leave it open to make it This is the yukata, So I'm going to put it on later. But what I find the most amazing which are these sliding panels. Definitely not be the best they are made from rice paper to allow for softer light They diffuse the sun's rays Also when it comes to light, is thought out and has always This room welcomes and receives who stayed here for days to rest Tonight it's my turn. Yoko and her husband invite and I take the opportunity I would like to speak in Japanese but more or less with technology Do you think samurai slept here? Yes. In that corner there were the horses. For horses. Yes. A that time horses The door is so small because Today everyone is banging It was always been yours, Yes, I am the ninth generation. Invaluable historical assets They cannot be purchased, What is the Japanese At the base is hospitality. For us, it is essential. Making people who stay here feel good by welcoming them and In this way we keep the tradition That is why I chose to This house has such a long history. Many people have lived here It's a living house! Thank you very much. Thank you. It was very interesting. I have to whisper because here the walls are literally made of paper. This night will be very special. I will sleep in a minshuku so ancient that even real samurai have been here. And then I will sleep in the yukata on a futon and a wooden pillow. So, a really special night. And it will be the first night Like this. Almost. More or less. [laughs] Good night. [music] On the trail I notice full of wooden sculptures. And as is often the case on this path, people leave their doors open, and to make contact with distant worlds. Look at this garden... It must be the woodworker's garden. And if he's here, it might Hello. Hello. Nice to meet you! Nice to meet you, too. He just told me that and he just did What was her name? Mariko. Beautiful name. You can call me Sumi! My name is Giuseppe. Yuseppe? Giuseppe. Yuseppe. What is your country? Italy. Italy! [in Italian] [in Japanese] It reminds me so much of the It is pretty much the What is this? Someone put the money, so after... Many. No, no! I don't need it! I thought it was a little altar but he explained that and since then they have But he says no, I don't need them! Over the centuries some of the most have passed through here that connected Edo (Tokyo) to Kyoto. Today, on the other hand, to talk to people who That makes me so happy. You know, so many people &quot;What is happiness to you?&quot; [Japanese translation] Um. It lasted much longer, I have always felt happy: Also because I think Japan On the contrary, I am very concerned about what is happening in the world, such as the war in Ukraine It makes me feel heartbroken to think about the suffering of the people That's why I think, in the end, This kind of time travel offers enchanting landscapes stone paths that tell ancient stories, and villages that preserve traditions. But above all, the opportunity who still cherish the Little Japanese. Translate. Yes. Shall we try? I am doing the Nakasendo What are you doing here? What work do you do? I am now working in the field. Oh! [in Japanese] I am so excited. I may know two words in Japanese. &quot;Sodesu ka,&quot; I think it means &quot;okay.&quot; And the lady is cultivating Can I come with you to see Yes, certainly! Thank you. Thank you very much. Eat this? Eat. I hope I understood correctly. It's for a salad. Spicy! Spicy. They are good! Wait a moment. Okay. What is your name? My name is Misao. Giuseppe. Nice to meet you. Let's see if she'll have me eat this, too. What is it? This plant is called &quot;makomo&quot; The part you eat at the bottom It is delicious, tastes like... A kind of raw zucchini and coconut. Japanese snacks. Snack? It is good. I tried. The ground beneath us is alive. Everything is alive. I think that's exactly right, even when I cultivate my But in harmony with everything I'm actually not the one but it is the plants themselves Communicating in Japan is complex, but in fact, through and goodness of heart, it And you actually learn so much, especially when you find that I think that every living A spirit! This grain of rice is alive. And everything, every being has life. This life, that of humans, or animals, and plants or insects all come from the same thing. Since ancient times. We travel the world to understand how happiness can change I would love to know because you feel so and I am very curious about I -- I feel happy. With everything. And... When I am here in It can teach me anything. Nature is my teacher. [laughs] And my buddy, my friend. I feel happy. I wanted to walk the Nakasendo welcoming whatever just like one does on big adventures. Retracing the footsteps of proud I found myself immersed in a world of forests thousands of years old, villages that look like living paintings and views that take your breath away, Which together create a performance Yet the real richness of this path lies not only in its natural beauty, but in the smiling faces of the keepers of the wisdom of a forgotten time and witnesses to an ancient culture where respect for the land is In this Japan outside of the big cities, time seems to flow with A time where there is room for curiosity, and for caring about and the essentials which this millennia-old culture. ENGLISH SUBTITLES: