This episode of Real Engineering is brought now just 11.59 for an entire year until December "I don't think it's very useful to speculate do, rather we should examine what he actually observations suggest that it operates according These laws may have been ordained by god, universe to break the laws, at least once In the cauldron of the early universe no light gas, but as this cosmic soup of atomic particles form, leading to the universe's first bright, that once blocked all light from escaping Some of these early photons have travelled of space for 13.5 billion years, and will detectors of the James Webb telescope. A space odyssey coming to an end because of The James Webb telescope is going to give universe from which we and everything we know [1] The James Webb telescope is a 10 billion dollar An endeavor that has eaten into NASA's limited entire astronomy budget for years, and in December 24th, this 10 billion dollar gamble European heavy lift launch vehicle, from the [2] Astronomers, physicists, and enthusiasts as this rocket carries the next generation This is the insane engineering of the James The combination of technologies required to unique to this time period in human history. The launch vehicle, the image processing, systems, the mirror, and the sun shield. This endeavor is the culmination of not just scientists at NASA, but thousands of years The materials and engineering required to epoch are a punctuation point in human history, and watching with bated breath together. The launch will take place here, in French Earth's equator to give the James Webb Telescope The James Webb Telescope will not be in orbit to a destination 1.5 million kilometres from Lagrange points are special points in space stay more or less in the same position relative traveling with. This happens because the gravitational pull force required for the object to move with Like little parking spots in space that allow while using a minimal amount of fuel to stay There are 5 lagrange points between the Sun L1 lies between the Sun and Earth. It's extremely useful for Sun observation However, the nature of the James Webb telescope's as much as possible. It is an infrared telescope, infrared is heat, completely saturate it's sensors and make So, it will be launching to L2, located about Here the telescope can turn it's back to the same position, nicely lined up behind unique physics. In order to operate correctly the dark side 233 degrees celsius (-388 fahrenheit). Without a way to block out the heat from the at 83 degrees celsius, nearly hot enough to [3] This is a huge amount of heat to block and a massive shield on it's back, like a tortoise. "And making such a device, is a very very That's Mike Menzel, Missions Systems Engineer "We had to map every heat flow to make sure hot side to the cold side. to make sure that that sunlight, which is in our direction - we only want less than and passively cools the telescope. " Preventing that heat transfer is, as Mike Heat can transfer in 3 ways. Conduction where heat is transferred from like heat travelling down a copper pipe. Convection, where heat is transferred from heat is transferred by electromagnetic waves. In the vacuum of space convection isn't So that leaves conduction and radiation as James Webb Telescope is managing these. First, material choice. The sunshield needs to be light, strong, resistant stable across a range of temperatures, and That's a long shopping list of requirements, manages to check all the boxes. Each layer of the kapton sunshield is incredibly Layer 1, the layer closest to the sun is the next 4 layers are just 0.025 millimeters thick. [5] Kapton by itself is actually mostly transparent, blocking heat shield. Thankfully, the wonder material that is kapton Each layer is coated in a 100 nanometer thick its reflective appearance. This reflective quality helps prevent heat that radiation back to space, and with gaps can't easily transfer through conduction insulating vacuum of space between each layer. Heat could still transfer between each layer The outermost layer will gain heat and start see through an infrared camera. In order to prevent this the sunshield has The layers are angled relative to each other each layer is funneled outwards to space. Ensuring that each layer gradually reduces components in the instrument bay. [6] The layers gradually get smaller in area from has a direct line of sight with the coldest Layer 1 itself is also coated in a special it this pink appearance. [7] Silicon was used because it has high emissivity. Simply meaning it emits a lot of the energy Meaning, the material will not hold onto its through the structure of the spacecraft to This high emissivity silicon coating is applied helping them send their heat back out to space, These design choices are what allow the heat between the hot and cold side, but blocking "That's one of the bigger challenges, that does this complicated and necessary unfolding- " In order to fit into the fairing of the Ariane stowed before launch, leading to some incredibly correctly when gametime arrives. "deploying things in space is always difficult. But when you're deploying a rigid structure that's relatively easy....Membranes and And if you want to have or illustrate what The string will move. If i ask you to determine the shape that it time doing it. So to control these almost non-deterministic a great deal of trial and error. And even after we're done getting the design it's almost like a parachute or similar You know the parachute will work, but it's you fold it. And you're going to find out whether you " The unfolding process will begin a few days [8]Starting with relatively simple mechanisms deploying. The truly nerve wrecking process begins on L2. There are over 300 single points of failure 300 chances for a 10 billion dollar, 25 year 107 pins, [9] holding the sunshield together, system of pulleys, motors, cables, bearings into its precise complete shape. This process will take 3 days, and once complete into place. Completing the transformation process, but The likelihood of the tennis court sized sunshield high, and because this a thin layer of plastic caused by an impact could cause a runaway To prevent this, rip stop seams have been tears and keep them confined to a single portion integrity. The film has also been carefully moulded with shape the shield as needed. [10] This passive cooling system helps tremendously, shielded from the sun's heat keeping it's degree Kelvin, about -233 degrees celsius. But parts of the telescope, specifically the here, needs to be even colder to work correctly. It needs to be 7 degrees Kelvin, just 7 degrees universe of zero degrees Kelvin, and for this [11] The James Webb telescope includes an innovative The challenge in developing this cryocooler Getting cold temperatures is just one small Vibration has to be eliminated, as the tiniest blurs in the image as it attempts to focus That means eliminating moving parts where precise machining and movement is needed to The cooler also needs to use a tiny amount 2000 watts of power provided by it's solar That means a closed loop cycle, with our refrigerant I found this explanation of the cryocooler The precooler features a two-cylinder horizontally-opposed which exchange heat with a regenerator acoustically. Okay, horizontally opposed pumps, with carefully as the weights balance each other out, but came straight out of a sci-fi novel. A sound wave is just a pressure wave and pressure Higher pressure will cause higher temperature. One way we can take advantage of this is by and troughs of the wave are stationary. We can do this in a closed tube where the by the tube's length. Here the sound wave will bounce off the closed high pressure, and therefore high temperature. This alone isn't terribly useful. The energy and temperature in this system but what if we could extract some of this Then, on each cycle, we could gradually cool To do this, we need a way to pass energy out a porous material with air gaps that allow so that it smoothly spans both the hot region in the centre, like this. [12] A heat exchanger is then placed on either one for the cold. The hot heat exchange will conduct its heat radiate out to space, while the cold portion a copper plate attached to the back of the kelvin. [13] This is an extreme over simplification of This is just a basic explanation of the physical The pulse tube cryocooler is quite possibly to me, utilizing a simple physical phenomenon Allowing those infrared sensors, located in mirror to work. The golden mirrors are the most striking part Made of 18 hexagonal segments 6.5 metres in It's unlike any telescope mirror I have The mirror surface itself is beryllium plated That's a unique and expensive material choice. We need the structure of these mirrors to light as desired. They can't bend and they can't warp with be extremely lightweight to reduce launch Beryllium is a lightweight metal, with an than silica glass, a more traditional mirror capable in dealing with the cryogenic temperatures Keeping its shape and not contracting so much of the mirror. While nowhere near as strong as steel, beryllium 300 Gigapascals [15]. This means, while the beryllium is easier before it actually breaks. Giving it excellent dimensional stability. On a pound for pound basis, beryllium is 6 [16] Making it the perfect subsurface material However, it is not reflective, and for that Gold is not the best reflector of visible the lower frequencies of the visible spectrum, critically it is an excellent reflector of ensuring the mirror surface will not tarnish [17] 0.1 micron in thickness, is coated over the Taking just 48.2 grams of gold, about the A surprisingly small amount for the huge mirror, 5.5 times larger than Hubble's 4.5 metre [18] The mirror needs to be massive, and to explain So, Mike, why is this mirror so big? "Well I can tell you it collecting, first that are approximately going to be a nanojansky. And to explain what a nanojansky is, its units " Okay gotcha, could you put that in practical "If I were to put a child's night light, of the moon and look at it from the Earth, So we;re looking for objects that are 1/20th To do that, you need a big telescope. Picture light as rain coming in, if you want bucket. Well even at the size of our bucket, 6 meters per second. 1 particle of light per second. And to put that into perspective, i;ll go star there is in the sky. Your eye is probably collecting 1 million So to see these very dim things, the dimmest need a light bucket that's at least 6 meters " 1 photon per second really puts things into Mike and the rest of the team working on the to be bigger, but the cost of launching a weight and limited space available inside They maximized the size with the resources mirrors collecting surface is 5.5 times larger lighter than Hubble's massive solid glass That is an astounding weight saving, driven to L2. And the mirror is even programmable. When Hubble first began transmitting images something wrong with the telescope's optics. Instead of the crisp awe inspiring we are back blurred.[19] The mirror had been ground the thickness of a human hair, but that was on the telescope's sensors. Replacing the mirror was not an option, but its lifetime, featuring modular equipment and replaced. In order to correct the issue, corrective bays, like a giant pair of glasses for the James Webb will not be serviceable. It's simply too far away from earth, beyond carrying humans to service it. If there was a problem with the mirrors, that not taking any chances this time, and have focus by itself. Each of the 18 separate mirrors can contort to the secondary mirror located in the main The weight saving isogrid rear side of the of back plates, struts and motors that can with the centre motor and these struts, the to adjust the focal point of the mirrors, issues from Earth. Once fully deployed the telescope will begin adjusting itself until each of the 18 segments mirror, a 0.74 metre convex mirror, which These motors and control systems are so precise in steps on the scale of wavelengths of light, 1/10000th the size of a human hair. That is an astoundingly accurate electromechanical The engineers of the James Webb telescope with an absolutely massive vacuum chamber that the telescope will operate at, ensuring But the job to get a clear image isn't done They focus the light onto the cassegrain focus, This black protrusion in the middle of the entering the aperture. [20] In the darkness there are two more mirrors, and this thing is the world's most expensive It is controlled by the fine guiding system. The fine guiding system is locked onto a guide the centre of its field of view. Every 64 milliseconds [21] the fine guiding system to make adjustments to ensure the telescope This attitude control is done with a combination bus, below the heat shield, and with the fine This mirror will constantly be adjusting itself steady on the sensors, minimizing blur. The telescope also has thrusters for larger [22] 191 litre (42 gallons) of hydrazine and dinitrogen tetroxide will be stored Inside rocket thrusters scattered around the telescope. There are 8 thruster modules, 2 on each corner wheels in spinning the telescope to point These 16 engines will be fed with hydrazine hydrazine is passed over a catalyst, causing hydrazine down into nitrogen, hydrogen and The other 4 motors are for orbital and positional They will be fed with both hydrazine and dinitrogen This fuel and oxidizer mixture react hypergolically Hypergolic meaning they do not need an igniter, Hydrazine is an excellent choice for a long The hypergolic reaction means the motors can of failure causing issues, like an ignitor Hydrazine is also stable for long periods Allowing it to be stored over the expected Unfortunately that life cycle is limited to Between pointing and orbital maintenance, and we currently has no way of refueling the NASA is looking to develop the technologies before it's demise 10 years from now. Robots capable of refueling spacecraft far The James Webb Telescope could end up teaching early stages of the universe. It's my hope as an engineer, after being 25 the really really big ones of the future, Testing James Webb - a telescope that's difficult thing to do on the ground. And I'm hoping that someday we'll be building tweaking them in space, and then deploying We are on the frontier of a new space age, on our journey towards being a more capable This is just one of many milestones in our our planet's gravity. From building our incredible global position reaches of our solar system to visiting the It's never been more exciting to be an aerospace to the CuriosityStream and Nebula bundle deal This holiday deal gets you access to incredible less than a dollar a month, and with yearly Battle of Britain series launching in the series that is ready for you to watch right This discount will end on the 24th of December, deal. A great stocking filler gift for the documentary in the most effective way possible. Nebula gives us a place to experiment in safety, audience on YouTube or being demonetized for Your support there has helped this channel exclusive content like this as our thanks. Many of you will be happy to hear that we giving you more options on how to enjoy our The best way to support this channel is by CuriosityStream bundle deal for just 11.59 With access to both Nebula, and all the amazing this amazing series called "Trajectory", science over time. You can sign up to this amazing deal by clicking you are looking for something else to watch the future of supersonic travel, or you could insane biology of Orcas.