(Intense dramatic music) - Welcome to this video Now on this channel, It's called the Classics of Coffee. We look at iconic coffee brewers, their invention, their history, how they came to be so popular worldwide. This is an unusual inclusion. It's relatively young compared to most of the other It was invented and released only in 2005, but it has come to be a global phenomenon. It's everywhere around the world. It's hugely successful. And we should look at why. Now it was invented, as I Now, Alan is a serial inventor and his passion really He loved sailboats, he and so he needed to That led him all the way to inventing the Aerobie Flying Ring. Released in 1985, it's I still have one at home, I still throw them around now and again. And within a year of its release, it had made the Guinness for the furthest object at that time about 320 meters, has since gone to around 400 meters, which is a very long Now the AeroPress came much later. It came out of Alan's frustration with not being able to out of a small domestic coffee brewer. You know, those things to brew maybe six to eight cups, and no matter what he did, he could not get a that tasted good. That frustration led to the invention As I said, it was released in 2005, but it didn't really find And I think some context is from the wider specialty coffee industry. There had been a company called the Clover. Now this was very influential, 2006, 2007 because it encouraged cafes to brew different coffees by the cup. And so the coffee industry got excited about what seems normal now. Like, offering a cup of or a cup of this coffee from Columbia, side-by-side on a menu. Before this, batch brew had really ruled and that was the kind of choice, you might have one or two things. But now cafes around the world were embracing brewing by the cup and offering a diverse menu of coffees. In 2008, Clover was sold to Starbucks. And while the industry as a whole might've felt a little they had found a love but no longer could use this machine. And so they began to look Around this time you see explode in popularity, What I think makes the and particularly desirable to home brewers is that it's kind of the There's not much in the you don't need a fancy kettle, you don't need to pour in a certain way, it's relatively simple and I think people really loved that. Now I've spent a good amount of time on internet coffee forums and one thing has always it has this super high Once people use it a couple of times, they kinda fall in love with this process, especially if it's their first That, I find hugely compelling Now, if you're unfamiliar what I'll do to kinda walk you through what you get in the box, how it all works, is brew coffee exactly in the instructions that come with it. &quot;Push plunger out of chamber. Put filter in filter cap. Twist filter cap onto chamber. Stand chamber on sturdy mug and put one rounded scoop in chamber. Shake to level coffee. Add water up to the 80 degrees C water for hot brewing. Stir for about 10 seconds for hot brewing. Insert plunger and press gently, pausing when you feel resistance, until plunger reaches grounds. Remove filter cap, push plunger to eject used coffee and rinse seal.&quot; Now you've probably noticed that the brew temperature used for this is different from what 80 degrees C is a lot lower than I would typically Alan, the inventor, really to getting great coffee and he has fought tooth and nail for that since its inception. I think it's interesting, but I really don't believe of getting great coffee out of this thing. Now, according to the instructions, you can drink this as is, espresso style, though there's a lot of debate about whether this can really It's a small, strong coffee, but we'll not go down that You could obviously dilute this, which is what I'm gonna do, to make an Americano-style drink, or more like a drip-strength drink. Let me do that. Now one thing I love is that nowhere in it does actually mention this piece, which actually has two uses. One, you can use it as a funnel to load coffee into the or two, you can actually brew and press into a smaller cup if the base of this is too wide. You'd think it would be worth mentioning, but it's not in your instructions. Now, as we're talking about we should probably talk about the composition of an AeroPress. Now the initial runs, I think for the first four years or so, were made from polycarbonate. And that became kind as people became more concerned about BPA. And so I think in August, 2009, production switched to a copolyester. Now, AeroPress do say that and found no leaching of BPA into coffee, but I think people were concerned and they had really no The design on the front here has changed a little bit over the years. The first design I think is of the very first run where for the one, two, three, and four cup. I still don't really but I find that design It's since shifted to the one, two, three, four cup circles to give you an idea of roughly But the sort of roughness of this, again, is part of its charm. There's no need for extreme not in how it's presented to you. That's kind of interesting. The modern version, the latest version, all of this stuff is now in red. There was a version where There's a version where it If you've got one from the I think it's a kind of I used to have one. I have since lost it. And that hurts me inside. Now, this cup of coffee here is not how I would choose But I think what has what has sold millions of is that you can brew with this thing a host of different ways, There's almost infinite possibilities. And I think that's very clever. When Alan set out to make this, he was trying to make a pour-over that you could accelerate by and skip the drawdown phase. In doing so, he created a brewer that is a kind of hybrid of A brewer that lets you take all of the individual dose, amount of water, brew temperature, brew time, agitation, even pressure and play with them individually. That, I think, has made it to people around the world. Plus, it's relatively it's almost impossible to It's a compelling offering all around. But, while I think it's easy I think it's actually to truly master. But that brings me in an unexpected way to the World AeroPress Championships. Because the idea that you could have a global competition dedicated to just one is kinda mind-bending. It started in 2008 in a little room off to the and three people, all And it was called the World in part to mock Americans when really it's just And they felt, well, why can't we call it the This was a competition was brew a cup of coffee that tasted good with the AeroPress. That was it. There was no performance. There was no expense in You turned up and you brewed, and the best cup won. And people found this, I think, a very compelling kind of antithesis to the mainstream coffee competitions that had become big, serious things that required money, The AeroPress competition was And people loved it. But since, it has grown where you have dozens feeding into this one big world finals, and often the national competitions will have regional arounds. Thousands of people enter the AeroPress And I think that's amazing. But the whole competition that mastery, true mastery, of this brewer is actually very difficult. Now, I've judged in nationals and one thing has really stuck with me. You would get a brew in one round that would blow everything else away, but that same competitor one round later would produce something kind of average. It was pretty rare that you all the way through its rounds. It felt a little bit more random than you would expect it to. It seemed really quite difficult to really, really replicate the same brew over and over and over again. Because you have this myriad because there are so many that has made me reluctant, really to talk about about an But that's gonna change. But the way I'm gonna do it I'm not gonna tell you because we've got a The next video in this series, we're gonna be diving much deeper into what's happening inside an AeroPress. Because you've got all of pressure, of brew time, of agitation, well, how much do we And if we can break them apart, not only can I tell you my preferred way of brewing with an AeroPress, but you can take those tools of brewing with an AeroPress. So that's the next video in this series. Now, before we have a little which is Squarespace, I do wanna say, that to celebrate this, to celebrate finally making I'm gonna give 25 AeroPresses away. If you want one and don't have one and you can't afford one especially, please enter down below. It's free to enter, It's super simple and I'll pick 25 people from anywhere that I can and I'll ship them an AeroPress. But now, a quick ad from which is Squarespace. If you need a website or a domain then I would recommend There are a host of different and they make it incredibly easy to do so. Maybe you need a portfolio Maybe you wrote a book Maybe you've got a beautiful cafe and you wanna showcase what Starting with one of their you can quickly and easily build something that looks stunning. And it's a full-featured website. If you wanna collect that's built right in. If you wanna make sure it that's built right in. But don't take my word for it, click the link down below and sign up for a free And at the end of seven days, use code JAMESHOFFMANN for Thank you to Squarespace And so that is the AeroPress. That's its history, that's its invention, that's what it is, how it works, and how it came to be in millions of households If you want to know more, there is The AeroPress Movie It's not free to watch, but they've very kindly If you use the link down below, it's 25% off with code JAMES, but just click the link, But now I wanna hear from you. Do you have an AeroPress? Was it your introduction to great coffee? Do you have questions I wanna hear from you down We're gonna make a few about the AeroPress, so hopefully we can answer But for now, I'll say thank I hope you have a great day.