McDonald's is a real estate business. That might sound surprising: lifetime indulged in the glorious experience You might know McDonald's as that fast food trust me, it goes way deeper than that. That's why, this week on Behind the Business restaurant chain, McDonald's. Few things sound as Irish as the name McDonald. It's an interesting name: the 'mac' Gaelic name that means 'Ruler of the World'. Very ominous, right? The two 'world-rulers' that we're interested from New Hampshire. In the 1920s they moved to California, where stand, but they eventually went bust when Their first big success came in 1940, when Now at the time, virtually all restaurants own unique taste and cooking methods. Drive-ins with roller skating waitresses were particularly efficient. You had to wait half an hour to get your order, The McDonald's barbecue was no different, knew they could do better. They realized that most of their income was french fries, and coke, and after running to make a radical makeover. They dropped most of their menu to focus on the entire kitchen around that. The cooking process started to look like an to fill customer orders in as little as 30 They abandoned the drive-in concept in favor cutlery and dishes entirely, replacing them In an instant, their restaurant became a sensation, One of the people they attracted was this He was a natural-born hustler, who at the a Red Cross ambulance driver during WW1. Interestingly enough, he served alongside keep in touch after the war. Like most people from the postwar years Ray DJ, paper cup salesman, you name it. In the early 1950s he was travelling cross-country but he wasn't really doing a good job at One day in 1954, however, he got an order than the McDonald brothers. When Ray made his way to San Bernardino, he offered to franchise it. By that point the McDonald brothers had already of them were doing as well as the original The lack of oversight made maintaining quality The brothers decided to give Ray a shot, and He handpicked only the best franchisees and In the span of just 6 years Ray built 100 brothers were basically managing their own Ray eventually grew tired of them: nothing while roadblocking Ray's suggestions To cut them out, Ray figured out a brilliant He'd buy the land all future restaurants it to his franchisees. This way Ray got to keep almost all of the McDonald brothers empty handed. Of course, the brothers weren't very happy could do, and in 1961 they finally agreed With the brothers out of the way, Ray stepped he had wanted like redoing the logo and creating He also expanded the menu, adding the Filet-O-Fish That same year Ray celebrated opening store the golden arches logo. Throughout the next decades McDonald's would They pioneered breakfast fast food with the They also added stuff like Chicken McNuggets make them the world's largest toy distributor. By 1988 they had 10,000 restaurants, and although on growing without him. Thanks to their iconic Hamburger University, best-trained managers in the fast food industry. This allowed them stay one step ahead of competitors Since then, McDonald's have continued expanding In 2006 the franchise underwent its first so-called "Forever Young" design, which and armchairs. Interestingly enough, today McDonald's isn't That title goes to Subway, who have almost for McDonald's. The company itself owns only 15% of them, The restaurants ran by the company account the whole story. In reality, it costs way more to run your collect rent. In 2014, for example, company-operated stores got to keep only 2.9 billion. In comparison, out of the $9.2 billion coming a stunning 80%. So even though McDonald's seems to be flipping instead. Thanks for watching and a big thank you to on Patreon! If you liked the history of McDonald's feel the full Behind the Business playlist for Once again, thanks a lot for watching, and