- Hey, LA, are you there? What's up? I wanted to ask you a question. First, listen to this. (upbeat funk music) Hey Sounds like a James - Yeah. - But it's not, what is it about this that we're both hearing that What's going on musically sound like James Brown? (&quot;Get Up&quot; by James Brown) Get up, get on up Screams, spins, and splits all make for a great show, but of the New, New Superheavy Funk doing? To answer that question, when funk was born. - So a lot of people say that funk started with Papa's Got A Brand New Bag in 1965. Others say it started but James Brown says in his autobiography that his sound really with his album Out of Sight. Got to tie your sneakers on &quot;Out of Sight was another &quot;and professionally, you &quot;start to move in a whole &quot;The horns, the guitar, &quot;was starting to be used &quot;of rhythms at once, I as &quot;of the production to contribute You know you're out of sight Ow - Brown got away from melodies. His music was very rhythmically focused, even the tambour, his delivery - Yeah. that's what made funk such a grooving, such a popular sound they are not really always singing. It's more group chanting. - But it's not driven It's driven by rhythmic interactions. - And not only was he to add to the song's rhythmic pattern, but he was creating a whole new pattern. So most music of that to the back beat, on the two It sounded like this. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. What James Brown did was he on the downbeat of the measure. And that sounds like One, two, three, four. One, two, three, man, get funky Man, get funky, huh, man, get funky Emphasizing the one so that the band could add Syncopation is just in places where we don't expect it. So if these are the strong beats. Three, four, one, two, three, four. Syncopation is just putting accents in between the strong beats. So sound like, one and two and three and (&quot;Mother Popcorn Part 1&quot; by James Brown) Yeah, yeah Yeah of the observations that I've picked up while listening to James Brown songs. The first thing is that The quality of how he and singing, it's somewhere in between. And his melodies and rather than long, lyrical melodies. - This is James Brown, and make it funky (laughs). I do what I can to mimic him and to give it a real heavier rasp. So I'll growl a little bit, - Okay. You know, movin', groovin', Is that alright? - Yes. - (laughs) Indeed. very simplistic approaches. He would take a lyric and give it rhythm, and then, he would wrap it with his soul and dip it in funk (laughs). That was preachin', you they would (grunts). It's called hoopin'. from the black church, his than the singers per se. His phrasing, and then, again (grunts), you know, at the end. - And the preachers, they that generates responses James Brown does the He is catering to the and they understood, they And that's why he remains so popular. At the same time, it is also the reason why he did not top really the pop charts. He was too much, but (LA laughs) - Do you remember the The one that sounded like James Brown? (upbeat funk music) Well, it's pretty close, James Brown's songwriting Listen to James Brown calling out for Byrd on his hit song, Sex Machine. Should I take them to the bridge Go ahead, take 'em on to the bridge Take 'em to the bridge Can I take 'em to the bridge At the hook of the song, calling for us to get on up. Get up, get on up Get up, get on up Stay on the scene, get on up Like a sex machine, get on up The use of this gospel-inspired and vocal punctuations of hip hop artists, you in today's adlibs. In the kitchen, wrist twistin' In the kitchen, wrist twistin' In the kitchen to write a song influenced by James Brown, and given the fact that I'm I'm not sure what we'll come up with, but we'll give it a try. I've had this beat in and if James Brown was this is what I would - Yeah. One, two, three-- - Nice! Do you think you could add - Something that has - Mhm. Okay. Yeah. - Okay, let's try this. I like it going up, yeah, going up, climb down, that's tight. to make it sound funkier? - 'Cause I'm listening to the notes. - (beat boxes) Even if like a bar of rest, you So (scats). - Oh, did you just offset it? - Yeah, it's like one, two, three, four. (LA scats) (Nahre laughs) (funky piano music) and three and-- Yeah, yeah! - Okay, okay. Okay, so Mr. Moore, Nahre and I, we created this song that's - Alright. for you, and tell me what you think. (upbeat funky music) - Yeah! - Yes, sir. - The funk. in there? I would say, add some The horns would make it pop. the extra seasoning on it. What it is, let's make it funky! - [LA] Okay! - Let us know in the comments of our song and some of Also, please subscribe. (bright music)