Could the god of the Underworld beat the Would the God of war stand a All will be revealed in today's introduction 20. Ok, so when it comes to outright power, we're today on a few matters. Nonetheless, it's having celebrity deathmatches. When it comes For instance, who was more powerful, old control them - that's not a bad power if you want Hypnos, more powerful, since he was the We guess Hynos wins. We mean, this God tricked gods to sleep for god's sake. That's some and as you'll see soon, she frightened everyone, her. On top of this, Hypnos' tricks So, with this in mind, his son Morpheus he didn't just make people dream about their important because he sent messages from other If you've seen the movie Inception, We like Morpheus. He was a good god. 19. The underworld was a busy place and but we'll start with talking about a place which is the name for a god and also a place. depictions of a kind of hell, a dark and gloomy Some of the titans were sent there, and the wicked In ancient Hebrew texts, Tartarus also pops up. If you want to know where the place is, just far beneath Hades as heaven is above the earth." just look at his son, a magnificent monster Typhon was a winged serpent who wreaked Zeus off the top spot in one of the Zeus had his hands full, but he knocked blasting thunderbolts at him. Typhon went so we can say that this family line was trouble. Ok, so who else was so damn powerful that he 18. When we tell you that we're putting forgive you for wondering why the hell this is no regular contest, and also, he wasn't He was the son of Zeus, and by god, did he have the weapons that the gods used, and we mean a all the world's militaries meshed into one. He sat as to how to make the best weapons, which included (pity about the back of his ankle). As we said, he it was the Cyclopes who first made them for Zeus. woman in Pandora. You might have that and released all the evils in the world. There are different accounts, though, as to very good. One of them consists of his own because he was lame, physically lame. Another after Hephaestus tried to help his mom after renowned for his wayward actions with women. last, and he eventually got back up to Olympus. once had a relationship with the goddess As could be expected with this goddess, she also a god named, Ares, who we will feature soon. 17. There were the gods and there were the titans, there before the classical Greek gods we are with the classical gods over a period of ten years of battles, was called the Titanomachy. that place you've already heard about, Tartarus. Atlas was one tough titan. He was also the brother the gods and gave it to us humans so we You have him to thank for this video today. but he was incredibly strong. That's why he gets instead of being sent down to hell, he was forced eternity. Now that's a lot of weight to carry. god of them all. Hermes, the herald of the gods. and news was very important, they could rely hence he was the herald god. He's also been called human heralds, sailors, and even thieves. On road between the Under and the Upper world." stories about him. One of those stories includes Apollo, who we will also talk about later. Hermes, turned the hooves of the animals into winged shoes Apollo, of course, was less than pleased to Zeus to face the music and all Zeus did was and so didn't punish him at all. Hermes kept between Olympus, Hades, Tartarus, and Atlantis. man to send it, and that included delivering kind of like media and social media in the godly are pretty powerful tools. He was tricky, too, using his trickery down on Earth, such as when As for his love interests, you won't be surprised - didn't everyone! She rebuffed his advances Zeus sent an eagle to steal Aphrodite's To cut a long story short, she went in search lovemaking and a later child named Hermaphroditus. Hermes certainly showed his dark side to 15. Artemis was the daughter of and she became the patron goddess of girls protector to women during childbirth, which let's When she was just a kid you could say that she was One story says that when she was just three asked her what kind of things she wanted in "Pray give me eternal virginity; as many names as office of bringing light; a saffron hunting sixty young ocean nymphs, all of She also asked for a bunch of rivers She then added, I'll take some cities, She was given that bow, a silver one made by the they were one-eyed giants who were With that great bow, Artemis became the goddess then. She helped the Trojans in the Trojan war, goddess" and the "goddess of the loud hunt." hunter named Orion, after he either tried to force As you know, Orion ended up becoming a special that humans in real life built hundred years to finish and became one of 14. Long before she came before the words Air Jordan, ten-year fight with the titans we told you about, Zeus. For that, she got to sit next to him on a knew to keep her close. The Roman version of her Her story is a bit complicated since over the goddess Athena, but it seems at some point bit scant as to what she exactly did besides "will not live apart from Zeus, nor go but they sit forever beside heavy-booming Zeus." a really hard time close to it was her who told him many of the gods had all the Gods could kiss goodbye to Olympus. She So, whether you were a god fighting or a mortal your side. It's not exactly clear what unique goddess on your side in times of war. 13. This is also a bit complicated, but a god we'll talk about soon named Chronos Demeter, Hades, Hera, Hestia, Poseidon, and things weren't too bad in those days, Still, he was told a prophecy that his Not one to ignore a prophecy, Chronos thought that bring them up. He did that, but things backfired. throw up his kids, one of them being Demeter. the giver of food or grain. She was the goddess so Demeter had a lot of respect from mortals. to the world, and those things were certainly pulp and fed it to an injured or sick person. in the underworld, and that could represent the The reason she was down in the underworld would was because her daughter Persephone was stuck down Zeus. The gods were very, very incestual. underworld every year, hey presto, she made get too involved with the seedier side of with a mortal guy in a field, and then out of There's also a darker part of the tale in that stallion and in that guise made her pregnant. 12. Ok, so that isn't his official title. He was harvest, wine, i.e. getting loaded, as well as just as recklessly drinking booze has a dark forms of insanity. He was the god of religious sword at times in regards to going mad. Mysteries. These were rituals where folks got drugs. Historians aren't too sure what drugs, and they found a kind of religious ecstasy. normal selves, just as what happens when involving psychoactive substances. from the drudgery of everyday life, Dionysus was son of Zeus, but Zeus as usual had been cheating was the mortal woman with Zeus's kid getting by storing him in his thigh until he got older. to be the opposite of Dionysus, Apollo, but 11. We guess you've already figured out that the Sure, he had a few close calls when it came to Guess what, though, there was one She was the mother of Hypnos, but she was deceit, doom, destruction, and Not that much was actually written about her, but unbelievably powerful that the mighty Zeus wanted even put her in the top spot in this show. Still, there just aren't enough stories about her. Hypnos to put Zeus to sleep. Zeus was mad as a but Hypnos ran to his mom for protection. Yep, So yeah, she could have been higher on 10. This one is tricky, too, when it comes to wasn't one of the Olympian gods but one of and Chaos gave birth to the Earth (Gaia), death, and Uranus gave birth to the titans, and in Stephen Hawking would probably disagree with much better narrative than the big bang theory. we can say Gaia kicked off everything. She but on the other hand, it was It's hard to really speak of her power, but seeing EVERYTHING, she can't not be on this list. Friedrich Nietzsche said was the 9. music, art, and poetry. He was also the God of of recklessness and pleasure, Apollo was kind He had the ability to bring plagues, but he He helped young folks get older and age with good the crops in the fields. If evil ever reared its regard, Dionysus might have been cool as hell and the stability that everyone needs in their lives. has Apollo fighting the python. thing that guarded the gate of the Oracle could counsel you and tell you about the future. Apollo knew from birth that he had to kill it. Apollo's mom while he was still in her womb. The he slew the python. Gaia was less than pleased but instead, Zeus just sent him into exile There is a lot more we could say about Apollo, no doubt about it. As was this next deity. Aphrodite, goddess of lust, passion, You could have all the power in the world, impossible beauty. You could be as strong as and still be manipulated by a woman whose Aphrodite was one very powerful goddess. Someone we'll soon talk about, Chronos, quite a lot of blood and the missing testicles the sea is what formed Aphrodite. and it's that drive that is the reason why in the fundamental sense anyway. That's why some The Trojan War was partly down to her. procreation, so she was responsible for death could also drive mortals, and Gods, insane including the good-looking mortal, Adonis. Aphrodite was as powerful as any God. She proved or for some reason was not concerned with her suffering a terrible fate. Zeus actually once got "Hey, your specialty is love, not war, She did her own thing, that's for sure. who could probably have given 7. Her father was Zeus, and she had no mother. That She apparently grew out of Zeus's forehead. being the goddess of heroism. Did you ever and Jason and the Argonauts? They were monster-killing men who embodied heroism. In goddess that counsels the hero Odysseus. behind the Trojan War with Aphrodite and was the most powerful of these goddesses. She might have been a war goddess, but her kind of wisdom. Remember that all those heroes she was Her brother, Ares, was quite the opposite. He In terms of power, we can't really separate 6. If Athena said in war, to win this we must amount of blood will be spilled in our victory, fearless and fight like a lunatic you might just That's why the Greeks said Ares was more he was often mocked in Greek mythology for being a settle things with his fists. He once slept with Hephaestus, so Hephaestus wrapped them both in This is what Ares's father, "Do not sit beside me and To me you are the most hateful Forever quarreling is dear to And yet I will not long endure you are my child, and it was to But were you born of some other Was this savage more powerful than his sister? We list. We'd love to tell you that in the real world but we'd be lying. Brute strength 5. goddess of marriage, family, Hera was the sister and wife of she was married to arguably the most fearsome god As the stories go, she fell in love with her a faithful sort of guy and we're not sure the Zeus cheated on her time and again, with other impressive, to say the least. But this made Hera the people Zeus got it on with. To be fair to Hera herself was far from kind at times. When her she sent witches to prevent the birth. That didn't but Heracles made short work of them. He dead bodies as if they were toys. He's only but suffice to say, Heracles was a Hera doesn't come across as but you sure wouldn't want to get on the and if she plotted against you, it was trouble. 4. We've mentioned this chap a bunch of times part in Greek mythology. Before Zeus Chronos was jealous of his father, the god of the but what you need to know is that Gaia told Only Chronos did, and he did it with a sickle, castrating him. From the blood and Uranus was understandably a bit peeved Chronos then married his sister, Rhea, and But as you know, he was told that one day he did what anyone would do and swallowed them. "Alright, hand him over, it's swallowing time." him a stone covered in swaddling. It was also a bit stupid because he fell for that Zeus grew up in a cave and when he got a to make him throw up. Out came Zeus's his brother, Poseidon, got his trident, and Zeus got his thunderbolts. It was time to fight. also have been castrated by Zeus, but that's But Chronos still deserves to be in this place. ten-year war was no walk in the park for Zeus 3. The ancient Greeks knew very well that the was the Earth itself. When it quaked, it shake the Earth. He also ruled the seas, when Poseidon decided it was storm time. than that. He was also the god of horses and Still, we should mention that when he once went to for telling us we're wrong here. However, being Like Zeus, Poseidon had more kids than he could was probably a genetic thing because catch a complete psychopath. Annoy him, and you could Then again, the way the Greek gods acted they were All in all, Poseidon could pretty much so we are leaving him at number 2. If you're going to give credit to the devil for credit to Hades, too, since they both ruled over underworld wasn't hell; that was Tartarus. Zeus got the sky, Poseidon got the sea, and Hades referred to as the Zeus of the underworld. Hades wasn't a bad god even though we tend but he was feared because he took no crap you weren't getting back, the Greeks were incredibly scared of Hades If anyone tried to cheat death, they would feel Sisyphus tried it, and he ended up having to That's why we now called futile things Sisyphean, Hades could be one powerful dude if he wanted he could split the Earth in half. If you don't "Hades splitting open the Earth to reach towns to their foundation. It amazed Hephaestus Artemis, and Persephone and frightened the stars to move out of their courses." All we are going to say now is that if for some there would be nothing left except chaos. Why 1. There's actually some ancient "'My Zeus rank is no greater than another rules the sea and one the void." and were happy about the fact he spent his time at the end of the day just had more influence on Still, Zeus was hardly a moral character, sleeping and sometimes coming down too hard on people. but at the end of the day, Zeus was pretty just things really went to hell, you could rely on Zeus might sit back and just let things happen. fight. If those three fell out it would mean the happen, because Zeus would know better. He was from time to time by other Gods, but Zeus remained but in one text he admitted, "I'd wish none of us Now you need to watch "Was Jesus Actually