Okay Youtube - Here are the components for Okay Youtube - Here are the components for a waste oil burner. easy to make em you know you can put it together let me see if you, if you can see that tape. eh I don't know in mm its 34 mil or something I have, I have a piece of pipe, this is eh it, this the angle of this thing, can you Because what I want to do is I want to bisect in a minute. Okay, so that's 7 inches long, half degree cut on it. Eh this guy here - I'm just over two inches, I don't know in millimeters it's twenty two and a half degree cut. Okay okay, eh a mild steel elbow threaded internally way through it. I drilled that hole in there pipe to go through. So, let's eh, I'm going go, there's em, there's the bit of pipe with it. So, the length of pipe to the length of ballpark 6 and a quarter inches, or about critical, you know it just needs to be...I've of eh my propane tank which is what I'm going can see this, this is the half inch pipe with want pipe in a pipe, okay so that's why I've slightly bigger than the pipe so that the why we've got this double 22 and a half degree make a bend okay, and I want no joints in the oil line and I want it to travel straight contact with the flame, and eh the air kinda and you can see, that all these angles make that half inch pipe, okay and the air comes blower, the air comes out around the pipe pipe. Eh at no time is the half inch copper in contact with what's in it, its just the that copper pipe, it keeps the pipe cools down it into the fire. So that's it,this one going to put a connector on that and I'm going in here, goes round the corner, down this provide the oxygen necessary for combustion, provide the fuel for the combustion. So very that on and eh it's in the right position the propane tank that I've got, okay, so again, can help it, I don't want that pipe touching get very hot. So what I've done is, I've made galvanized fence wire and I've just wrapped got to the end, this end, I made it wider, see if I can do it - I'm going to stick that what can you see, you can see that it's holding it, em, I'll have to do it off-camera because what it's going to do, it's going to hold inch pipe. I don't think it will effect the And eh, so that's what we have, we have half that one inch pipe and getting to there. Okay do is I'll mock it up now, so you can see the half inch pipe in the center of that one unit if you like, which is no more than just drilled a 44 mm hole in this thing as I showed it, and then you can see the fit, okay so, way round - no gap, so it wouldn't matter air would just end up going, being sucked already em pre-drilled that hole and what put the em, the screws in it, so, these are pre-drilled this so if I can em, manoeuver so, let's see. Okay, and that's it, there's where my thumb is, in through this 1 inch pipe, em, and my spring has fallen out but where the old burner unit used to go through, do is this pot is going to sit over that hole. I will. Em, we've got about a 2 inch gap between of this pipe and the floor of the pot, em at that. On the previous one I did, I had it just goes through the sidewall of the eh Okay so here we are, I said I'd, I'd do the here we go. Eh, this is just some stuff I but it's a solder elbow for inch copper, some elbow, so that's just my air intake blowing tube em, into that elbow is one piece all can see it, it's very black in there. In any but that's the set up. Em, again em the oil gate valve, drops straight down, gets into with no interference all the way down, across Em this is the em, you know, the, the original the other burner. Eh, that particular burner em on a gravity feed of oil into the, into suction to mix the fuel. So, in any case, to leave a bit of a gap, that's just a disc. if I do open the bottom door, if I want to up, up through here and get into the burn going to put the pot, so the pot just tips the base of that pipe, em to the deck, you And the pot just scoops in under, so the plan matter, you can move it around when it's firing, know, and em, in any case, there it is - the 1 inch pipe is the feed in, into that elbow line. Eh it's going to become apparent now maybe we can see, em, let's give it a sh..there the oil goes in, let's see, it should appear oil in, now I opened it a bit ..quite a bit actually burns. But for now, what I'm going up, em let's try that. Okay so, I'm not sure going to do is I'm going to put... this is much that is but, a drop, and I'm going to mean to put it all in, but it's all in now I'm going to actually light it, so here we there we go, it's kind of going on it's own, to plug in the burner, or the blower. And Okay, so this is with the door open, and eh inch off the floor of that pot, and eh, I'll I don't know the, it's a bit bright, it seems there, little bit of a gap around it, and already getting bigger, and eh, let's put conclusion of this video. Em, what I'll do eh I need to do some stuff to it now. So, em maybe you could em like, comment or subscribe. burner, and eh in the next video I'll show of stuff. Thanks very much, bye.