Today we're going to attempt something that's talk about reversal of plaque, reversal of heart theories. We're going to look directly at the controlled trials in human beings, and we're at all of them. There are six randomized trials in plaque reduction, reversal of heart disease. Most media, are never discussed, are never shown to right now. I went over these six trials. the key features of each one, and then we're going heart disease based on this body of evidence. trial on our list is the one you've probably heard years ago. 20 men with documented plaque in their and they had a control group of about the same just got the usual medical care. So the diet vegetables, whole grains, legumes, soy products, and otherwise low in alcohol, no caffeine, 8% of their calories came from fat, most of which protein, and about 76% of their calories from diet. Dietary cholesterol, they only got about 18 about one-tenth of the cholesterol in one egg. calories a day. Now very important, they also exercise, mostly walking on treadmill, at least one hour a day, stretching, meditation, breathing the ones that smoked, and the investigators ran they had a group social support session twice a intervention. This is important. We'll come getting this whole lifestyle intervention, they things that you'd expect to a intervention were followed for a total of five years, and was angiography. Basically, you inject contrast an x-ray. And so the contrast running through the blood vessels. So if there's plaque growing and like the artery is pinched. So angiography is a caveats to angiography, like every technique wall of the artery, but doesn't push into the we can't see that. The outline of the inside if the plaque does push into the artery and dilate to compensate for the narrowing. So the because it dilated. So we might think the plaque So grain of salt with angiography. The results of point, 82% of participants had a change in their it's not clear how many were statistically the end of the trial, the overall average was a 3% of the artery. So about 3% of that space, that average of all the participants receiving the stronger in the people who complied the most to the effect was smallest, in the participants who but this is in the range of these trials that we usually in the single digit. So it is hard to undo in mind that even a small reduction in stinosis, has to do with the laws of fluid dynamics. And so clinical impact, as we'll see in a second. So a is actually fairly impressive. All right, last we can move on to the second trial is events. so these actual outcomes that ultimately are what matters. But we have to bear in mind, rupture of strokes often does not happen in the largest So whenever possible, we want to look at actual large reduction, 60% fewer events compared to the landmark at the time, very encouraging results. heart trial because of all the limitations that 20 participants on the intervention by the end. the diet because there are so many changes, so with the angiography, we've talked about that, that went all the way to the end of the five second trial on our list, and that's the Stars heart attack or chest pain with high cholesterol a control group of about the same size who just both the diet and lipid lowering medication. So a coming from fat, where saturated fat was about were about 8% and dietary cholesterol was about and they also had an increase in fiber compared follow-up was a little over three years. They also average reduction in stenosis of about 1% in the significance, and then 1.9% in the diet plus In terms of actual events and symptoms, both on both of the intervention groups, the diet and impressively, a 70% reduction on the diet and we have to be very careful because the numbers control, three events on the diet, and one event big grain of salt. So this trial, the Stars trial, heart trial, the size, it's also a small trial, all men again. The strength, the claim to fame So for the first time in a randomized trial, it even events, although the effect on plaque size we're going to move on to the third trial. Just there looking at diet and plaque that are not because there are a higher level of evidence, and other studies out there, for example, the work that. He has a couple of case series published and we actually interviewed him at length so you that at the end of the video, and I'll put that trial on our list is the scrip trial, published in so it's the largest trial so far. Not all men this is a pretty common bias in cardiovascular sicker. Another group of about the same size So the intervention was a diet that was 24% of milligrams of dietary cholesterol a day, so a bit component. The investigators were encouraging also medications with the goal to improve their blood pressure. So very much a multi-pronged years. This trial also used angiography. These so they all used the same technique. In the of participants, although the overall average was was still progression, growth of plaque, but just plaque growth. Events, there was no significant two years of the trial, a very significant the intervention, like five or six times less difference was only seen in those last two years, So in general, this trial feels like a bit of a all these different prongs, all these multifaceted And yeah, things moved in the same direction, but the diet is very similar to the Stars trial, possibility to explain this difference is in this clogging, very extensive plaque. So plaque that were excluded. Because those patients often need that skewing the trial, they decided to leave those larger plaques that usually where we see the results with plaque were a little disappointing. the technique, just like the other two, and the we covered that. All right, let's look at the last number four on our list is Predimed, which was factors for heart disease like diabetes, and on a Mediterranean diet. Half of them were on other half, Mediterranean diet with extra nuts. advice to reduce fat in their diet and actually follow-up was 2.4 years and the technique was not So carotids are the arteries that take blood up the outline of the inside of the vessel like artery. And this actually allows us to measure the as far as plaque, the average wall thickness was in, but only in the Mediterranean diet with extra it neither grew nor shrunk. And then two other no significant difference on either Mediterranean nuts was a little better at reducing plaque, interesting because when we look at actual events, by about the same margin, 31% less events on 28% on the on the Mediterranean with extra nuts. a similar reduction in both. And then when looking in events, average of both Mediterranean diets. that had their plaque measured were a very small participants, and the events results account give or take, had their plaque measured. So it's representative of the larger group. Possibility. caveat to bear in mind. All right, let's look at CordioPrev. Almost 400 participants, 80% men, with our list, also put on a Mediterranean diet. 40% of saturated fat was less than 10% of their calories, about the same size who just received advice 32% of their calories from fat. So not a big The folks on the Mediterranean diet consumed and a bit more fruits and vegetables than the so this is both the largest and the longest to test this question. And this trial also used thickness was reduced on the Mediterranean diet by significantly reduced. This is interesting because amount of olive oil as they did in predimed on the a significant reduction in plaque size. Why? are higher risk. So maybe they have more plaque It's one possibility. Or maybe because of the a 28% reduction on the Mediterranean diet overall adherence. One limitation, as we already said, is history of heart attacks or unstable angina. And 45 participants, about a third of which were a control group about the same size on usual care, medication. So dash stands for dietary approaches Mediterranean diet with a focus on high potassium so basically fruits and vegetables, whole low in dietary cholesterol, low in refined grains. 50 to 55 from carb and 16 to 18 from protein, and trial so a bi-pronged trial if you will. Total is the shortest follow-up on on our list. On the computed tomography angiography. It's basically an bloodstream, and then instead of an x-ray, you do size of the plaque, but also the composition of And this is even more important than sheer size. Overall plaque volume, no significant change only at the soft plaque, the non-calcified plaque, but more strongly on the intervention group it also come down in the control group? Possibly reduce plaque by themselves. And so we're seeing and the exercise on top of the usual care with types of plaque, fibrous plaque, calcified plaque, is there isn't much of a difference in overall which is more vulnerable to fibrous and calcified events on either group. This trial is not really limitations of the disco trial, small trial, small so we can't say that the benefits are just the so we covered the six trials. Three are just diet CordioPrev. The other three are multi-pronged, encouraging results, benefits, on some lower some Mediterranean diets, some dash diets. The head and come up with the winner, right? That's completely different techniques to measure plaque, are different. Some trials are really small, so we do. If it was my arteries on the line, right? Or these diet names, and I would look at the the interventions that work? What are the foods vegetables, legumes, whole grains, some dairy like it's not. So these are the foods I would favor. We benefits because the trials changed the entire look at commonalities. And then foods that are nuts, olive oil, fish and seafood, eggs, white foods. We see benefits with diets not including if somebody wants to favor nuts over olive oil see a problem with that. It's not the strongest olive oil reduced plaque in cordioprev and there result but at the level of personal preference, I don't see a problem. And finally, foods that all cookies, cakes, sugary cereal, sugary soda, large amounts of fatty meats, large amounts of these trials. So I would limit these foods. Is it add more details or change our understanding? with the science we have, if it was my arteries on Would I settle for that, for that diet? Absolutely would do the exercise. I would stop smoking. medicate. If I had a lot of plaque or a history very strong evidence that medication in people heart attacks and strokes and death. So if it was conclusion is different from mine looking at let me know below what you agree or disagree with. information so that you can make your own educated hinge on stories. So if somebody's telling you and not showing you these six randomized trials them why they're not showing you the evidence. How about exercise? Can exercise reduce plaque? You can check that out by clicking right here. covering his work and reversal of heart disease.