This is not a town. It may look like a town, it may act like a This is the Villages--a massive, sprawling, community in Florida that easily ranks as Driving from one corner to another would take pass the suburban-style homes of over 130,000 were born before 1967. Despite the entirely-manufactured nature of was the fastest growing metro area in the managed to manicure some sort of charm for The Villages is centered by a town--or call Sumter Landing. Although it sits about as inland as one can a quaint seaside town and even has plaques of the buildings--each entirely fictional, suspension of disbelief that starts the second that surround. But once in the square, fanciful, incongruous Rockets, Starbucks, Panera Bread, Haagen-Dazs--flanking from five till nine, 365 days a year, some Beyond the bounds of Lake Sumter Landing and are punctuated by 53 golf courses and over courts, gyms, and other facilities that host bone builders exercise class, the women's Villages lightsaber club, the Long Island Cleveland and Northeast Ohio Club, the Texas And these state-related clubs paint a fairly residents come from--overwhelmingly, these looking to upgrade their quality of life with of state income tax. Despite having no restrictions on who can the Villages undoubtedly attracts a particular 68.8% of its residents voted for the Republican to the same year's Census, 98% of residents But that's just the Villages. Three and a half hours to the south, Cape generation. It too is predominately white, predominantly more mixed in age. In place of the core superlative status as Cape Coral postures as the city with the world's 400 miles or 650 kilometers worth, each painstakingly waterfront status and, through a zig-zagging But it was not as ingenious a plan as it first In fact, little planning at all went into is more of its developers making an overzealous went along. Selling lots to primarily distant buyers, details: few services or amenities existed and far between--certain areas are a full With few businesses to generate sales tax tax-base is abnormally low, and with a predominantly has often struggled to find the funding for Water--both too much and too little of it--has problem. In the early days, there was essentially zero Developers just told buyers they could just groundwater below, but there wasn't enough of the area disrupted the aquifer's natural Eventually the burgeoning local government a central supply system, but it too was relying digging deeper and deeper as the water table Eventually the city invested in a reverse groundwater potable and a reclamation system underinvestment has meant that, despite being America, Cape Coral regularly encounters water restrictions, and quality issues that have of the top Google autocomplete suggestions But still, growth prevails: where else can dock for less than $50,000. But there's still an entirely different the middle-class midwesterners. Exactly opposite Cape Coral, three hours away natural 18-mile, 29-kilometer long barrier but connected to it by four short bridges. The island is centered around the massive, until it reaches just one mega-mansion in These homes sell for inconceivable amounts--$47 their owners likely only spend just six months resident status and the lack of state income essentially exists only between Thanksgiving season," when temperatures up north stay of offseason maintenance stays hidden--but Over the winter months, this pencil of an for wealthy conservative Americans. While increasingly recognized today thanks President Trump at his resort on the island, laid roots long before--disgraced former $36 million mansion up until his death; prominent Limbaugh owned a mansion listed for over $100 senate nominee for Pennsylvania Dr. Mehmet beachfront mansion on the island in 2018. All controversial figures, they each undoubtedly have become known as Palm Beach's core competencies. Little is public on the island. Save for a small, rather unremarkable downtown, within the walls of neighboring mega-mansions, Beach Bath and Tennis Club, Mar-a-Lago, or extremely exclusive social clubs on the island. For those without the means, there's truly then commute back over the bridge to West This maintains the social bubble around the real-world quarrels stemming from their reputation. It's a strange spot--an informal yet remarkably And it's in a state full of remarkably consistent Somehow, this massive peninsula has bred a places--beyond the Villages, Cape Coral, economy undergirded by theme parks; there's by 125 miles or 200 kilometers of overwater of places that exist in Florida that have and perhaps more bizarrely, within Florida. The only consistency in Florida is inconsistency. There's a common thread of incongruity, decades, even centuries ago, during the very peninsula. For Florida to become the oddest of American And to be appealing, it first needed to be before automobiles, rails. In 1900, Florida was 32nd out of 45 states and Washington. Miami's population hadn't yet reached economic driver was cigars, and Jacksonville--the to date--had recently been ravaged by Yellow health retreat for the wealthy northerner. As a swampy, Seminole stronghold so late to see the allure. That changed with this man, Henry Flagler. For much of his life, Flagler worked side-by-side building one of America's mightiest businesses--Standard Then, in the 1880s, after spending some time to Florida and began manufacturing one of First for Flagler was the hotel here, the the likes of Theodore Roosevelt and Mark Twain. Then Flagler--fueled by dreams of an American south, building a bridge across the St. Johns the Florida East Coast Railway, and extending build the world's largest hotel: the Royal Soon, the rails reached Miami, allowing fruit to vacation in the sunny south. In two decades, Flagler had laid the physical Equally important, he helped reimagine it. By beating back mangrove forests and building backwoods; it was a spot to retreat from the that came with extreme wealth, and to rub stature. Flagler's Florida was intentionally not Effectively a string of jewels, his network those who worked for the elite. Conscripted prison laborers toiled in disease pace, while hotel workers had to move inland This divide was especially obvious in Palm working classes was part of its fundamental, West Palm Beach wasn't an outgrowth of Palm Rather, it was planned and plotted beforehand lake Worth for hotel and estate employees. While captains of industry meandered around Palm Beach functioned like a frontier town notoriously raucous saloons along Banyan. While places like this didn't fit the budding the dream of a warm winter escape possible separation made its existence bearable. Turn-of-the-century South Florida was tiny, its allure was highly fabricated and problems And more than anything, it was now tempting. In the '20s, the state roared to life--Americans the area and they wanted in. Billboards in New York extolled the Florida national newspapers. In 1925, the Miami Daily News ran 500 pages running Florida real estate ads; and each To keep them pouring in, the state nixed income regulation, and left alone spectacles like From 1920 to 1925, Florida went from under the vacation spot for midwestern and east Connected by rail then road, and with proof of the US finally got it--what Florida offered America. The craze reached a point that buying Florida leaving new owners with lots sitting under Often, a simple scam was to blame, but so Florida's biggest threat to growth has always form of tropical storms. What makes Florida so appealing from the world's water temperatures, still winds, and warm At the western end of hurricane alley, the in the bullseye for tropical storms. It was a hurricane in 1926, then another in its tracks, and the 1935 "storm of the Century" Florida undertaking: the Overseas Railroad But storms come and go, water recedes, newspapers and federally-backed insurance allows people happened. This is the case in Miami as it is Los Angeles, Florida's other interrelated water problem, And that's the fact that South Florida, Florida Bay, is functionally a big, wide, Before the national park, and before development almost the entirety of Florida below lake And this biodiverse sea of grass, where water stood directly in the way of making true on The problem's pretty simple: for Florida In the early days of Miami and West Palm Beach, responsibility of local governments and land then record flooding, Florida needed a bigger With the creation of the $200 million Central the Army Corps of Engineers took off on a the Everglade watershed. Like Flagler's railway fifty years prior, In cost and scope, it was the most audacious In principle, it was as bold and self-assured estate development; they quite simply aimed And from the perspective of anyone looking With federal dollars, the 3-mile, 5-kilometer of lake Okeechobee, became C-38, a 58 mile, seemingly on a whim. Below the lake, South Florida water planners Protective Levee, along with an assortment canals that whisked water directly to the coast. By the late '60s, the South Florida Water had drained half the Everglades with the aid canals and levees and sixteen pump stations away from urban and agricultural areas. Just as the vision of Florida as a dreamy was the actual land--painstakingly, expensively estate developers who, in turn, transformed of post-war Americans pouring into the state. The project was just in time: in two decades, more than doubled, then from 1960 to 1980, Since 1980 to now, it has doubled for the With ample barren land, ambitious master-planned Villages breaking ground, and new generations to Palm Beach, Florida is now for the escapist In a century, Florida as an idea, and Florida While different sections of reclaimed swamp, to serve Americans of varying age and economic brazen disposition of their developers and latched onto the Florida dream. In many ways, Florida mirrors less the development West. Late to statehood, mired by water problems, of Eastern and Midwestern states, Florida population lagged along with its economic But even Florida didn't benefit from the or ranching economies that buoyed Western empty. Florida was America's last frontier. By the time Henry Flagler first laid eyes to coast for decades, settlers had claimed had long been transformed into American, yet swampy wilds at the country's southeast. It was effectively an ocean, or at best something even think of as land until individuals so the impossible task of turning nothing into There were no homesteads to lay claim to, valleys to draw people in: every inch of Florida There were boosters and there were buyers--that Differentiation is critical to business. When an entrepreneur goes into a pitch room going to make a taxi company or a bookstore They say they're going to do something different. They say they're going to make Uber or Amazon Uniqueness is necessary in business. Investors don't take risks on slightly better, known for the same proposition. To take the plunge, they need the promise forward. Florida is a business. More so than every other state, it had to land had to be bought, improved, and sold. The weather was a start, but to convince a and especially to end up on their land rather to do something different. They had to build a themed, age-restricted lots; then had to turn their island into an Weird sells. And weird attracts weird. Compound that and compound that and you make It's a celebration of the bizarre; an affront American experience, where supercharged capitalism impossible wonders, unknown to anywhere else As many of you all know, I travel constantly: in a hotel room in Scotland finishing this to write and research this while abroad without That's because rather than comply with Europe's of websites have just decided to block out I was running into issues getting access to water-quality issues in Cape Coral, but then one of their servers in the US, and just like This is just one instance of many issues that the internet: certain streaming content is means you get access to a ton more if you surveillance and firewall programs, for example. So, having a trusted VPN that can essentially is a really useful tool for any internet user. Not only that, but the internet is not always to a bunch of public wifi while traveling at real risk of a cybersecurity issue if I encrypted connection. NordVPN has earned a fantastic reputation and that's why we're choosing to promote If you click the button-on screen or head offering Wendover viewers a huge discount and you'll be helping support the show while NordVPN today.