No~ (The youngest daughter, who refuses to play in water) (Dive in together) No!! (Pulls his panties) ahh ... (Throws away) (Seok Jin rapidly runs back after seeing Haha coming) (Huh...?) (Big Nose, who was about to go back..) (Failed to return) (He jumped at the time the gap was widening) (Battle on the buoy.zip) PD : Let's begin with the 1-on-1 match (Ji Hyun versus Do Kwon) (Team Ji Hyo expected Jong Kook) (But Ji Hyun comes up!) (Team Ji Hyo let Do Kwon fight against Ji Hyun..) You need to win no matter what You can lose, Ji Hyun~ Still, do your best (Who will be the winner of this match?) What should I do? (Show us what you can do) (Ha... What should I do...?) Lift her up and put her in the water! (He decides to let his daughter have fun in the water) (What is he doing...) Good He can't lift her up x2 Daddy~ Oh my... What are you doing, Do Kwon! (Do Kwon's legs are weak after the gym ball game) (Still, he tries to let his daughter play in the water) No~ (The youngest daughter who refuses to play in the water) (They enter together) (The daughter lover, who sacrificed himself for playing in the water) - Ji Hyun, are you okay? (Do Kwon WIN) (He won but somehow feeling like he had lost...) Your face went in The beet juice I drank earlier is about to come back up... (He gained victory by sacrificing his face) Good job, Ji Hyun PD: Next up is the 2-on-2 match (Jong Kook, Jae Seok versus Do Kwon, Se Chan) (Team Ji Hyo put the ace members in the 2-on-2 match...) (Unexpected appearance of Jong Kook!) I don't know who will win This's a big match Oh I'm sleepy - Make sure you throw us into the water... Don't get intimidated (START) - Okay. Bring it on!!! (He provokes with a protruded mouth) Okay, come, come, come Don't get intimidated by a bedwetter! (Bedwetter, who wets the bed so well but don't fight well) - Come here, you punks - Come on I'm about to sleep what are you two doing... Are you fencing? (Coward fencing players) (They fight with their tongues instead of swords) - Not coming? No? Cowards do this Let's grab them (refuses to shake hands) - Jong Kook, this brings back memories of &quot;X-Man&quot; - We were on the show (Charismatic) (At that moment! Do Kwon charges forward) (He gets on their mat while they think about the past) (He enters the water by himself) What was that? What is this? (shame) Wait! Wait for a sec! (He asks for a time at 2 : 1 match) (Nope!) (The big match ends in a lackluster way.) - What was that? That was disappointing (What's this ...) The floating mat was too far... - You should have jumped over I'm sorry... (and the following 3:3 match) Jong Kook, Jong Hyup, Seok Jin And Ji Hyo, So Min, Haha Ji Hyo, So Min, Haha? (A weak team members) They chose the weakest members for this round Protect me, okay? Go! (Mr. Dirty Mustache tries to sacrifice the female members) Let's start Ready (START) - Come here, you punks! - Come here (The weakest members are aiming each other) Come on, the one in a green cap! The twu(?) of you should step back.. The twu(?) (His rival's provocation got his tongue tied) (The matchup between the weakest members) We swear we won't help. We'll just sit down It's neck and neck It's neck and neck (Frog provokes) You are provoking me. That doesn't feel good, huh? You can't come over, right? (The provocation and mockery...) (make him charge forward) (Let's fight) (Glancing) (He makes a sudden retreat... when he sees Haha approach) (Huh...?) (Big Nose tried to go back..) (Failed to return) (He jumped when there was a distance between the floating mats) What was that? (The lack of jumping ability created slapstick comedy) What is he doing? (Shame...) (He can barely jump over the doorsill) So embarrassing! What are you doing? I am so embarrassed We can win! (It's 3:2 with Big Nose's out) - You! (The protein monster who protects Jong Hyeop) (They are hesitating despite the numerical superiority because of Jong Kook) Go over there and fight!! Go!! Don't just sit around like a fool - Shall we go on over? Be careful when you go on over... The gap gets quite big... (They decided to go over) (Defending mode) You should go to the front and protect me! (Went over!) (You came alone..?) Push him. Push him!! (Jong Kook arrived!) (One day, destruction entered their floating mat..!) (Jong Hyeop joins him) Wait a minute... (Apologizes first) Go away!! (Lu Bu on the floating mat has no mercy) (The next target is Ji Hyo) (Song Ji Hyo OUT) Haha, hang in there! Finish him off without pain (Haha hangs on his leg) (A crane is ready) Gosh, I can't watch this... No!!!! (Jong Kook pulls his underwear) ahh ... (Throwing) (He feels pain from the deep valley) He shouldn't have held out.. (He only got a pain for nothing) - Are you okay? - Left ball(?)..is off...off... The right ball... The right ball.. (4:4 match) Ji Hyo, Haha, Se Chan, So Min Ji Hyun, Jong Hyeop, Seok Jin, Jae Seok. (Both teams don't have their aces) Hey x 2 (He acts flippantly because he has other members) (He washes his face to show off) (The bedwetter who absorbs a moisture with his face) Se Chan, now is your chance! - Now is your chance Watch closely, Ji Hyun I am going over (The bedwetter is in a hurry) (Faltering) (He charges forward when Se Chan falters) Finish off Jae Seok! (Jong Hyeop joins him at that moment) (What are you doing there!) I want to go there, but it's too far... (isolated) (It's 2 against 1) (Jong Hyeop is out) (Ji Hyun and Seok Jin come to help) (He misses his steps) (Seok Jin is out while jumping over the mat) (Ji Hyun gets attacked) (Ji Hyun OUT) (In the end, only the betwetter is left...) Hey! Where is everyone? (His team members are all out) We're all out Where is everyone... (It's now 4 people versus 1 bedwetter) Jae Seok, don't tire yourself out Take off his shorts (Naughty members no longer care about the match) (Taking off) (The pee-stained shorts get discarded) Come here. Slap, slap! Get off the mat! (He grabs Jae Seok and slaps him) (It's time to let the grasshopper go) (Eventually OUT) Whoops... (Team Ji Hyun got destroyed one at a time) What happened to everyone..? (He's telling his story) These guys ganged up on me... (He got beaten up) - Jae Seok, put on your shorts I will stay like this! (An eyesore in a swimming suit appears) (He jumps) Don't do it! I got beaten up!!! (He got crazy after being beaten up) Put on your shorts I am wearing a swimming suit! That's not a swimming suit! Why are you asking me to put on my shorts? (Missing bottoms that seems too comfortable for the betwetter) I got beaten up so much... You went over too hastily (He's wearing his shorts) (Showing a slapstick comedy) What are you doing He did that on purpose (My goodness...) - Put on your shorts! He thinks I did it on purpose!! I didn't!!! By the way... the water must be pretty cold, huh? (Shy..) It's very cold. It's very cold.. It must be as cold as ice! The water turned a bit yellow(?) The water turned a bit yellow I am even more exhausted because I drank so much water I feel like only Jae Seok is taking an active part (messed up) I guess it was a 1-on-5 match Seok Jin, what did you do today? (Last 5:5 match) We should go over at once (Come here!) (The 2nd match between the weakest members) Oh my... (Stepping) (Seok Jin, who tries to fight for the first time and the bedwetter, who stepped on his hand...) (Seok Jin was attacked by his team member) (He achieved 3 defeats by the bedwetter) (The weakest members resume their match) Be brave and come here (They hold each other's hands) Aaaaaaah!!! (Team Ji Hyun, that tries to bring So Min to its buoy) (And Team Ji Hyo that tries to save her) (Human tug-of-war) Let go of her! Hold So Min x2 (Saving Private So Min) Don't give up on So Min!! Don't give up on So Min!! - Save So Min So Min, hang in there! Let go of me... (Private So Min who just want to take a rest) (But her team members who don't let her go) Is So Min made of rubber? (The rubber man is eventually released) (The Private Jeon who finally came back) - Get some rest Medic! Bring an energy drink (The Private Jeon is finally saved...) (The game resumes) G.. Grab... Grab him first... (So Min, who came forward) (Seok Jin charges forward) (Seok Jin's fall acts as a signal...) (The fight started) (A close combat) (Do Kwon vs Jong Kook) (Do Kwon aggravated Protein Monster all day long) (Thrown away) (Se Chan is being attacked) (He escapes, but Jong Kook's push eliminates him) Ji Hyo, watch out for Seok Jin! (So Min, who played the weakest match) (OUT) (Haha, who was hanging) (OUT) (Even Ji Hyo...) (Do Kwon is the only one left) I will take one person with me (The hairy man is ferocious) Do Kwon is holding out until the very end... Gosh, Do Kwon is so annoying... (Overturned) (The hairy man eliminates one member) hold out until the end! (He fights against two) Seok Jin should participate~ (The man of 3 defeats stands back and watches) Seok Jin should use his strength~ (Jae Seok slaps Do Kwon's face) Is he there to watch~? (Jae Seok shampoos his hair after washing his face) He is shampooing his Do Kwon (It.. It's cool...) This hair salon is nice Seok Jin should go against him (Seok Jin jumps in only after he is out of strength) (In the end, Do Kwon is out) (Team Ji Hyun won the last match)