- Today we're talking about this, Drew Barrymore's new coffee machine. Why would we talk about that? Well, to be honest, one reason. It's a $99 bean-to-cup For under $100, this thing whatever beans you wanna put into it. And that as a category, as a product, seems very exciting to me. I want that to be a thing that Because if you were to buy and let's say even a cheap v60, that's gonna run to probably So there must be compromise, right? And today we're gonna walk because I think those compromises And at the end of all of this, you can decide if this Now for a little bit of context, and what they might call inside baseball, this is part of a line of from Drew Barrymore. And you can tell here on the logo, it's a big B for Beautiful. And then a little d and a I love it. It's a collaboration that's It's all sort of labeled However, the manufacturer, is a company called Made By Gather. And you can see they tend to make products that look like this kind of nice, sleek, modern-looking products. And so this is a kind of collab and I guess, to some extent, Walmart. It's hard to know. I do I think it looks clean and neat, and it's a lot of stuff in There's some interesting colors there. I think for $99, the fit The detailing is kind of nice. I'm surprised at how much I liked it getting it out of the box. It doesn't feel substantial and heavy, but I didn't expect it to. But it doesn't feel cheap and So a quick walkthrough. Here at the back, you've got This thing will brew This is a few liters of water in here, which I think is actually In the middle here is your grinder, there's a little lid here. This will hold up to 180 grams of beans. I have to get this rant in now because I love it, it makes me very happy. This machine will only Everything is ounces. You select your drink size in ounces, all the manual refers to ounces. It's ounces. However, every single time the manual, or anything in this it's in grams. It's in grams. They're mixing the old which is terrible, but it makes me feel like for metric to be the answer. Sorry, America. Grinder here. We'll get into And then on the front, you'll And you know what that means? It can wake you up in the morning by grinding and brewing coffee for you. A lovely comfort feature I think that's good. Way too many domestic coffee brewers that brew nice coffee do and that is a shame. It's worth the small loss in quality of grinding the night before. But this thing doesn't even do that. Grinds fresh. Amazing. So the front of this thing of a touch panel and a display. To get things going, we There you can select your brew size, you can select to brew later. You can change the strength, which is gonna be how much You can also then sort If you wanted to use your own coffee, you could put that in pre-ground Tell it don't use the grinder, and it will brew the requisite when you hit go. And obviously, there [Beep 1] [Beep 2] [Beep 3] It does beep a little bit, and it beeps every time which is a little bit annoying. But here's your brew chamber. So it's a kind of classic mesh filter. But as you look at the something very strange is going on here. Half of the bottom of this That's a strange decision. You surely want an even flow If you look on the other side, this bit here effectively So the machine will pump it'll flow out and be nicely distributed over the bed of coffee. But that bed of coffee can't brew evenly. Why would you do that? Don't worry. I'll tell you why. This part here, as the whole thing goes, there's this little cutout here. This is why you can't use paper filters in this thing day to day. And they do say you Well, it's because most all the way around here. Let me show you the problem. If you took a kind of normal paper filter and popped it in here, But here's the problem. This thing injects coffee And so if you put a paper filter in, well, it wouldn't be That's a bit of a flaw. Now I have tried, 'cause of course I have, snipping out this little to allow the coffee in, But it didn't work very well. Paper is out. We're stuck We're stuck with the half basket thing. What's this all about? Well, The grinder's relatively easy to access because they do want you to which is interesting. It's a little click-off cover Don't let you put your And then inside, twist to It's not really a burr. If you're not familiar with these, they're most commonly Now a traditional coffee It looks a little bit like this and it has sharp teeth cut into it, and it precisely cuts the coffee down to the appropriate size These are not that. These are not sort of These are kind of like to pieces with your hands. Vaguely more effective. We've done a whole series I'll leave a link down below. They're very cheap to buy, mostly because this part is so cheap. Manufacturing good coffee seems to really elevate And so this little thing here, frankly, does a terrible job into usable pieces of ground coffee. You'll see, don't worry. The other downside with this setup here is that I can't adjust the That's fixed. And that really throws especially if you wanna brew where you would want to This machine strongly prefers They will grind sort of better, they'll extract better than light roasts. If you could adjust this, I might cut it a little bit It's a fixed grind size, whether you're brewing no matter the coffee beans. Having told you what I've told you. Having looked at the you might be surprised on the box of this thing. It's a nice box. There's Drew. She looking happy. That's good. And then the big claim, Extract 2x more flavor.&quot; I'm not sure compared to what or how. There is some sort of It does have two trademarked There is the Perfect ... is a stretch. And then there's the Exact-Xtract(tm) of course. Sorry, it's been pointed out that there is actually a next to the double flavor extraction. It says, &quot;This is compared with a model number, &quot;Using Keurig's Dunkin' of medium roast pods at the This is saying that which would typically extract around 20%, you're getting twice the flavor. So they're claiming 40%, I which isn't even possible 'cause only about 30% of And look, it's just a wild if you use flavor to mean in the ground coffee. If they mean something But I have no idea what this They've got their lovely They haven't trademarked 'Drew's Brew'. Seems like a shame to me. Let's brew some coffee. I don't have really dark I have what specialty would and what commercial You've just missed a segment where we lost our minds effectively. We got stuck in a loop to come on later by mistake, and then it wouldn't let us do anything. It wouldn't let you brew. It was just gonna sort of until it was gonna brew tomorrow morning, which is a horrible piece of menu design and a terrible flaw on the software. But moving on, we've You can go anywhere from six to 16 ounces in two ounce increments, which is lovely. What I'm gonna do now to sort of illustrate some of is interrupt it as it's brewing. Because once it's ground the coffee, I wanna see how much coffee is it grinding for an eight-ounce brew. Tared off the drawer. (drawer slots in) Let's start the brew. (coffee machine beeps) there's a little pause, it It seems to do a little and then the grinder kicks in. (grinder whirring) (drawer comes out) (Beep 1) (Beep 2) So for an eight-ounce brew, Seems a bit light to me. Does that not seem a bit light Let's make it bold. (grinder whirring) 16.7g. So you'd think, okay, 16.7g, eight ounces, it's like a 250-ish thing times by four. It's about 60 grams a Let me show you now, though, It's not looking good in here. Now it's hard to show you this without kind of upsetting everything, but all the coffee is mounded Which suddenly makes sense why they've closed off half the basket. 'Cause, actually, there's no coffee covering It's kind of hard to see, but straight in the basket, right? There's just no coverage because of the way that It's sort of thrown in, And, you know, I'll give settle it out a bit, but I'm not sure that's Secondly, you can see all around here The problem with these is not just that they produce loads of these very fine powdery pieces that give the brew this but it's that they also at the same time. So you have a real spread of sizes. That's not what you want. When you buy a really nice coffee grinder, it tends to produce sort of ground coffee that and have things taste good. Here, there's a massive range. There's a load of these fines, and then there are pieces up to sort of 1,500 microns across. That's one and a half millimeters. That's not ground coffee, That will really be difficult There's not much surface area exposed. And the brew will have this combination of bitterness and sourness typically. Enough speculation. Let's actually brew. (coffee grinding) (coffee droplets) (coffee brewing) At this stage, I'm not sure I'm sold on For early in the brew, you'd be expecting a from the bed of coffee, because that's when there's the most kind of soluble stuff available. It's looking a little (coffee plinking) Don't worry, it will beep when it's done. (Beep 1) (Beep 2) (Beep 3) There it is. Now let me just get a This machine is a rule-breaker. I'm not sure in a way that Here's the thing, when we we talk about how much The whole coffee industry, talks about the amount of clean, fresh water at the start. That's what we think in. We might give you a brew ratio And so you'd brew, say, 250 to 15 grams of coffee. When this thing says eight ounces, it's not brewing eight it's producing eight 236.5. That's problematic. Not because it does what it It makes sense to say, give me eight ounces of liquid, here's eight ounces of liquid. But all of the sort of maths don't work on finished liquid. So when you do the maths, assuming eight ounces of water in, was more like 66 grams a liter. And then now it turns out 60 grams a liter is what most people would in most of the coffee industry. So the fact is that this when you ask it for strong. When you're kind of brewing weaker, it's been like 45 grams a liter, which historically was but really, in the last 10 or 20 years, that's been considered just too weak. That was when we were out of coffee, regardless of The upside is, more water will mean though it will still be weaker than a kind of normally But is it good? It looks a little pale. You know, it's hard to sort of You can get kind of close, but I would say that's definitely Little bit of sediment, little bit of silt at That's not surprising. It's metal-filtered so you'd (inhales) Not smelling great. It's one of those things it's good water. And so there's not a It doesn't taste bad, it just doesn't taste very good. It tastes weak and it tastes And, you know, we've set this on the If I was using a much darker roast, I'd be having a different experience, because darker roasts are They're easier to extract. There's less soluble without being too nerdy, but it's much easier to extract. You'd feel like you've got at the end of it. With kind of nicely-roasted coffee, this thing is kind of ruling itself out. But just because you got from a darker roast, doesn't mean it would've done or that you were getting the best out of the beans that you were buying. You kind of need a more not to have the kind of sour, bitter combo that this still kind of has. You can taste it was specialty coffee, but it's not a good brew. Kind of sour and reedy, and It's a real shame. I want $99 to buy you access to beans from whoever you wanna buy beans from. You know what I mean? Like it kind of unlocks or kind of pre-ground Being able to brew beans means and really enjoy the diversity This does not unlock that experience. This will just let you access that your beans have if you are buying really It's a kind of false economy. You are saving money that's under $100. And I get the desire there to have access to brewing fresh beans. But it's not really Saving up, and I know but a proper burr grinder that will last years and years and years, and truly give you access that coffee is capable of. This, sadly, looks great. Got some weird software issues. You know, you could fix the but ultimately, it can't brew good coffee. The combination of a flawed grinder that will never sort of with the challenge of then moving this very When you produce a lot of It gets really dirty really easily. Let me just show you. One brew in, and it doesn't look great. That's the little chute that It's kind of damp everywhere. It's a sticky mess. Filthy. If you're watching this, I can't comment to the rest I have no thoughts on that, I have no real comments on sort of celebrity-endorsed it's been a thing for forever, This, I like how it looks. I wish it was better, but it's not. But now I wanna hear from Do you have one? Have you had Do you know of another thing like this at a similar kind of price Have I missed it? Is it out there? Let me know down in the comments below. But for now, I will say thank and I hope you have a great day.