This is me trying to figure And those are NASA astronauts also trying to figure NASA is about to make a technical decision, and I want to try Like, if you could design an entire moon to the moon like they did However you take people to the moon, And inside that spacecraft, they're breathing oxygen so They'll then descend somehow They'll touchdown. on the surface of the moon in a spacesuit, For the Apollo program, on the back, the Portable This device pressurized the spacesuit so that the human inside One thing we don't think about very often is going from the spacecraft That step is critical, that NASA has to make The Apollo program was incredible. It put flags and footprints from humans on the moon, which is one Ultimately, though, The Artemis program is going back to stay. People are going to live on the moon. This video is crazy town. The fact that we got So what we're going to do today is we're on a spacesuit, that information to understand this And the people we meet along Engineers, divers, All these people have a role to play in this big decision that will affect And I know the video is long. Whatever. I learned so much that I have to share with you, and I want you I thought I understood the physics of being on the surface I didn't, it's, we're going to learn I'm going to show you footage I've There's so many cool things in this video. I'm excited to share it with you. So let's go get Smarter Every Day, buoyancy laboratory at Johnson Space In order to do this test, to the Sonny Carter Training Facility, Tim, the guy that made all this happen, in the facility where he introduced The first person was Dominic del Rosso. Dom has done everything. He used to run the zero gravity program that I got to participate in as of research in early suit He served as a fire chief. He's a backseater Yeah. He's volunteered in Afghanistan. He's served as a test subject He's currently the chief engineer a diving instructor trainer and he Yeah, Dom's the real deal. The second person they Pat is an incredibly experienced master thousands of people how Pat is a safety jumper for some He's the guy that goes in and saves the These guys are incredible and they're what we need to know in order to even Okay, we're here at the neutral Are you the guy that's gonna keep me alive? Yeah, that's the goal. [D] Are you the instructor diver? [P] Yeah, I wanna be the instructor. What I do here is I run the maintenance department and I also run the So those are my two main jobs here. I also safety dive, float dive, So when we get something like this. Yeah, you're the one you're stuck with. So I'm your problem [P] Well, that's debatable, I'm probably your problem. [Destin laughs] [D] Okay, that makes sense. Dom, you are the engineering [Dom] Am I titled? I'm chief engineer here at the facility, I'm representing management I'm also instructor trainer for diving So I support Pat in what So I'm going to be talking a couple [D] You're making sure I'm staying, [Dom] Yeah, well, I'm the government guy, so anything bad happens, So everything's going to go really well. [D] So, Dom and I met each I did the undergraduate reduced gravity student flight opportunities I mean, that was like 20 years I really enjoyed that period of my career. Okay, so the neutral Really big swimming pool. You can do specific simulations that you There's some facilities like it, They have a very, very small pool, This is a unique facility Yes, for our facility it There's one in Star City in Moscow. There's one JAXA has in Japan, but by far and away, this is the most [D] Okay, and so you guys use. I'm gonna look at this You guys use divers and, well, [D] And so you guys can simulate zero gravity and getting like, trim out buoyancy [Dom] We want you neutrally buoyant. We don't want you to float And that way, this is the only place you can do all three degrees You still have weight inside that suit, end to end, six hour run with you So, yeah, it's a pretty unique And I think we're going to talk about probably later about how now we're So now I got to get you And then we also do stuff on the surface And that's our team here that trains our navy and air force PJ's [D] Air Force PJ's.. [D] Oh, they're the people. Everybody, they're like, [Dom] Yeah. pararescue men do the nominal recovery of So we do that on the surface as well, as well as we also do aircraft water So we do stuff on the water, under the water, on the bottom, all over, put your night vision goggles on, So, yep, when you're outside you're gonna go from light Right. minutes, full on dark for 45, So we turn the lights on and off. Same thing here. And only your headlights. [D] So you mess with the photopic [Dom] Yeah, and it's not again. And we're probably going to talk Each environment is valid We have water drag, so we don't do It's not realistic, it's negative. You're going to get the wrong answer. It's an invalid. So you put all these different environments together It's that end to end working It's not really, as you get back to your testing, evaluation like that, but we're [D] Yeah we'll talk about lunar later. It's not doing soil studies here. I can't. physical reaction environment When you do the other stuff. [D] You're putting their brain in the space and you're having to manipulate Okay, so I'm talking too much. So what are we about to do? [Dom] Okay, so what we're gonna do is we want you to get in the water with the crew doing up close and really get a sense To do that, But what we're gonna do, we're gonna have Pat here as So your current recreational in our working environment, the difference between what we So you can dive here safely, So we're going to get through this so As we move towards this big decision we have to understand some And coincidentally, a lot of the physics This gets complicated. So obviously we should So the air we generally breathe You get about 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen with a tiny bit of argon, When you dive in a swimming pool, the further down you go, And that has some implications. When the scuba diver breathes air from the tank, to the pressure of the depth That means that the deeper you go, It's, like absorbed in your body, in your blood, nerve cells, If you then return to the surface, out of your body, so it tries Now, you've heard of this. It's called the bends. You've heard of divers getting the bends So divers are always working to stay that they don't stay down too long and get and they don't ascend to the surface too to rupture out of their body Scuba divers are always thinking If I go down, the nitrogen will get in my blood, and then I have In fact, I have to do I'll come up to a certain depth and let I'm gonna watch the time, make sure It's a very important People that dive all the time, they have this cheat code They have more bottom time. and this basically is air, but they played with the percentages You'll hear of nitrox 32. Nitrox 36. That's 32% oxygen, or 36% oxygen, It's. It's a really interesting way to offset Now, at the NBL, they go even farther. They don't use normal nitrox They use nitrox that's got And the reason they do this is because the NBL is a pool that's So they've done all the math ahead of time, and they realized if we have this with the pool, want, and then they can And they don't have Long story short, the people at the They develop this special nitrox blend so period of time and come up safely, decompression sickness It's fascinating. My understanding is we dive with nitrox [Dom] It is, it is. It's a much higher mix than you can get out recreationally or industrially, So that astronaut in that pressurized suit, that right now is So at the bottom, it's going to be the Well, I would be in decompression If I was on an air dive for 6 hours at 40, well, 48ft equivalent, I can't do it. But if I get too much oxygen, Like on orbit, the real one There's no nitrogen in the system for the on orbit suit, but I can't do So we have this blend of 46%, so it splits that difference My brain was on fire. Clearly Dom has a lot of experience and he knows a lot of things, like self discipline, move on to the dive preparation [P] See, each subject has four divers on them. They have two safeties, So you have eight divers, [D] Eight divers, two subjects in the water. Is it four people per subject? Are those divers up on comms? [P] As you do, we hear them in the water You'll hear us tomorrow. We hear everything the subject's saying and everything the TC and the TD They can't hear us. It's a one way, but we hear So they can make requests to us, so we can prepare what So, yeah, you'll hear that. It's very clear, and it's one You can stay about 3ft away from them. Because they are very loud. [P] All right. But you can hear them as if [D] Wow. instruction, it became clear to me These people are doing amazing things, For example, there's increased So the fire hazards are different. They use a specific tank rig. The hand signals are different. All this stuff made it very clear to me that I'm not just dealing I'm dealing with people who have been hand temperament and their skills and their The people that dive at the NBL, So it's time to talk about spacesuits. Now, when it comes to spacesuits, I have a unique insight into what it feels because nine years ago, Now, it feels strange releasing this footage now because I And at the time, I was an aspirational young man that wanted to apply to be And so it didn't feel right But I'm going to release it now I know what it feels like to be in the suit, and I want Just for the record, I want to let you It's odd looking at it because it reminds But I keep my astronaut rejection letters right there in the shot of every I've got them all stacked It reminds me that NASA The people that are astronauts So I feel weird looking at this footage Like, man, I really wanted to do that, And I just have comfort knowing that God And we get to talk about spacesuits Now, if you think about it, the spacesuits currently worn on the International Space Station, the astronauts move around by grabbing Right. used on the moon, they do require Right. the older style, on first of all, I had Now, if you think about a spacesuit as you have heat that your body is On Earth, the heat dissipates through So you have to wear this suit full from your body by actually contacting It's fascinating. Keep in mind, this is And so getting into the hard upper torso Then you just gotta kind There you go. [Young Destin] Elbows don't do that. Go ahead and lift. Yeah, there you go. Gotta try to come straight up, Destin. There you go. There you go. And it's a boy. [D] It's a boy. Also, as you put the suit on and they put the helmet on, it was quite the moment, when they pressurize the suit My hand was inside a glove, and the glove, as it pressurized, had a state The fingers wanted to be As I closed my hand, against the suit to close the hand, of a balloon, if you can So what that means is, the higher the pressure in the suit, the It's a fascinating feeling, I found that the suit was very difficult that I was going to fall It was an interesting experience, and I'm grateful to have had because it helped me understand the things So the change in pressure between what's inside the suit and what's outside, What is a normal suit that. [Dom] So the current space station suit, which is 4.3 psi delta over whatever it is. If it's in a vacuum, it's 4.3, absolute. If it's, you know, here, it's going to be whatever pressure So it's going to feel [D] Okay. [Dom] And this suit, these suits that we'll These are all downgraded flight hardware, So it is exactly what you would be using. It is exactly the same delta pressure. Like I said, our environment here, And so we don't do stuff where drag is The other stuff is, so. [D] So are you going to do That's understanding, [Dom] Tomorrow's a higher pressure run so And we're going to do it in the blind. We're not going to tell them So that can they one, Because it is subjective to an extent. And then they're going to compare their fatigue levels between this run which will be different pressure [D] I had an interview one time with Johnny Kim, and he was telling me I think it was Chris, told him, [Dom] You'll lose. [D] What does that mean? [Dom] So the suit is designed And so if there's a joint there and it's sized perfectly, it's going to be It's going to bend. What if you're fighting, like, Okay, don't do that in the suit. Because there's a bearing here. So you want to roll your shoulder, there's a joint here, there's one here and then If I do this, I'm having to force all these things over by going this way, [D] Oh, so you literally find [Dom] Yep. If you understand and where it's designed to move and where you're not fighting the suit [D] Alright, it's time to talk I've got two things to tell So, number one, I'm not going to pretend Number two, I am concerned about making this sponsorship spot too long Today. This is a product that I fell in love with on my own before they Smarter Every Day, my wife likes to sleep cold. I like to sleep more warm. And so I arrived at eight sleep So you remember how earlier in the episode, I explained that there's to keep their bodies cool Well, that's exactly what this is. But for your bed, well, it's not exactly You have these cooling tubes and liquid your body at whatever So there's two elements The COVID that goes over your mattress and has the cooling And then there's the hub, that contains the water and does The whole thing is controlled by an app of really useful feedback The fact that I get a sleep score every This has sensors in it to get It can measure when you're And I like looking at all those metrics and imagining, like, what is causing Is it caffeine? What is it? Here's a flir image. You can see my wife's side Eightsleep. When eight sleep agreed to sponsor Smarter one cut in half so I can look They said, yes. Okay. It's not like tubes. They must have a large Weld it together. And look, they make this grid right here. There's a seam down the middle for one But look at this. So it's like a mesh. You see that all the water runs through there, and they have This is the controller. I would love to know how that works. There's got to be a data card in here. The data must go. No, that's a USB type interface there. So the flow, like the valves, That must be how it works. I did a, like a broad market Decided to make the plunge very happy. My wife loves it. Eightsleep.com/smarter Even if now is not the time for you to make the investment, at least That would be great. Let's go back and check out the spacesuits Okay, so we're talking about teaching modern astronauts how to walk And when you first think about it, you think, well, the earth is Therefore, it must be easier to walk on the surface of the moon, Now, it seems on the surface that it would be that way, but it's Think about it. but your mass is the same, A while back, I talked about how to land on the surface of the moon, and I really Like we compared it to a helicopter. I like the animation and it explains So let's go back and watch that. If you think about a helicopter, So if you've got the weight here, then you have lift that's pulling it up If you decide to translate forward, forward and you want to move you still have a vertical component of But you also have this horizontal component that will let Now that makes sense on earth. But the problem is if you're in a spacecraft and your spacecraft has even if they're the same mass, Think about it. to lift that thing, in the same acceleration moving forward, that thing forward, acceleration is far lower because So in order to get the same acceleration you would have to tilt the spacecraft over This is the problem they had They considered a helicopter and a lunar. Vehicle of the same mass And if there were no drag, the. Horizontal component of acceleration Proportional to the tilt Over the moon, where there is. Definitely no drag and weight is only one 6th of Earth, nearly six times the tilt angle So just like flying on the moon is different, walking on the moon is that your inertia is the same, that mass is the same, It's a fascinating problem. So think about it. If you're walking on the surface of the moon, like right now, the center of gravity of my whole body And when I walk, I lean On the moon, you have to translate that force into the ground, and you If I have to move my cg more in order I put my CG out over my feet, So a lot of the falls that you'll see of the Apollo astronauts, They're bumbling around trying It's fascinating once you think about Another way to explain this Clarke in 2001 a space Odyssey. He said that you are six times more sluggish than your weight would suggest, like, if I'm walking straight, I'm okay, directions, my inertia So knowing that, watch a couple of the Apollo astronauts mismanage their cg and it So this is a thing that the astronauts before they go. [Astronauts speaking] They say give it a slight I mean, material is not white. It's just the same as it. Ah, rat. Oh, here we go again. Give me a help. Flight science. We just don't have. Did you see? Once you start seeing the complicating factors, it's like, wow, Now, there's another physics thing that we have to consider, because we're So on the moon, there's no drag. In the neutral buoyancy lab, So the rate at which you That's one thing. But if we're going to have this simulate we have to figure out how to float five, Right. And that's exactly what they But you have to do that in a very And Dom does a great job [Dom] So your suits 4 psid delta. So it's essentially inflated. It's going to be buoyant. I need to make sure that your center of mass is where it's going to be But I also have to co locate otherwise you'll be too Even though I'm 1/6th g weight. But now it's giving me a riding moment. So these need to be together. So my trick is to locate I know where they should be. So that the center [Dom] Correct. [D] Because if they're at the same location, [Dom] No orientation. No preferred orientation, It's not going to roll. It's not going to. [Dom] Yep, How do we actually measure that in a suit? So aircraft, when we weigh and balance and there's load cell in each one And then I tilt it 20 degrees And where they cross is my center of mass. Now I got to do that [D] Okay. [Dom] So here are my three jack stands [D] This is a load cell. [Dom] It's a load cell right here. [Dom] Okay. And I'm going to stand in here and lock handles up there so I You'll be able to see this tomorrow. [D] Is this like a seesaw? Because this whole thing This whole. I'm not going to rotate it now. But I'll unpin it and you'll see this whole thing will rotate that person And I'll get a resultant. There's a little dive display underwater and it's going to show And he's going to move, or she is going to move the weights [D] It just clicked. And in order to understand it, So let's pretend we have an astronaut here, and we have the center of gravity So that would create an imaginary You see that? If you were to tilt this astronaut forward, the gravity vector Do you see that? If you were to just go back like this, you can see that those two Now, let's think about this backwards. Let's say that we have this scale We've got some scale parts there In fact, let's just have the top Here. So we've got one scale thing there. We've got one back here, If we were to place the astronaut in there and weigh things on this scale, let's say, on this one right here, Now, the same happens back here. If you were to average out the force of those three points, So you basically take the position times and then you end up The same works here. But if you look at it, that's going to make the center If we were to reverse it, over here, then that center Do you see that? on the astronaut, the big backpack, which means the center of gravity Now, the interesting thing about using load cells like this is you can only get You're not getting a 3d You're only getting a line You see that? along that line, because it's Now. When we tilt this thing forward, And so we can do that again. And then we can, just like we did before, we now know what the center of gravity Now, when we take this thing and we put it position, and this is called the CB, The interesting thing about the center of buoyancy is that it It might be off and up like that. And if that's the case, you have So to explain this instability, I have another view of an astronaut And you can see the CG of the astronaut Right. Let's say that they get down there The CG, the is the weight So you've got a force down. And then the center of buoyancy, underwater, is calculated And the goal of that, of course, is to offset five, Now, let's say they're not lined up. The center of buoyancy is too Now, if you look at it, up there, and it's going And if you think about that, And so the astronauts leg over here would be doing more work than over here, This would not be good So what you want is the divers to trim out the astronaut such that the center of Right. Well, there's still a problem, right. Because now the top of the astronaut is going to be pulling up, and so it's Well, if the center buoyancy is too far below, then your legs are going So what do you do in order to get that center of buoyancy right Now, the divers and the team running They have all these weights in these And what they can do is if they notice they're supposed to be, what they can do They can say, oh, I need to take And as long as it still equals out to one six, the weight, that'll move the CG, and You could even add foam blocks So you can change the center of buoyancy of each other and the astronaut It's like they're walking I never would have thought about this. And the fact that you can use this tilty astronaut mechanism to determine the CG I think that's really clever. Now, you can't directly measure the CB. You have to infer that from the data. That's a little more complicated, I never thought that you'd have position of the center of gravity And that would help you emulate a lunar It's amazing. What do you call this when I'm gonna call it the scale. This is. We call this our partial So this will be on the bottom [D] Really? And see what's going on that way. But we'll take them down, we'll trim them out to make sure we Then we'll swim them over to here, plug them in, put the extra weights on, They're in the correct spot. Go. Go. [D] It's unclear where we are, That's where I did the. Put your mask on first thing. Back in the day, there's a big crane up to pick this thing up [Dom] Correct. That's why it's out here and we So. But it will be in before So I wanted you to be able So what Dom just showed us is extremely But we know we're at the NBL So let's go learn about the specific All right, so now we're with Adam. Adam, you're a test director, right? What do you say? [D] okay, engineer type? [A] I am an engineer, yes. But I'm in the operations [D] So you're going to be running the test [A] That's correct. And how long have you been planning this? [A] About two and a half months. [A] Yeah. [D] Just doing the paperwork [A] Yes. And actually, that is But, yeah, now we're executing the test, [D] So I'm a. So what are you, what are your objectives? What are you trying to figure out? [A] Okay, this test is about characterizing EVA performance at an elevated On the space station, right now, the EMU We want to see what this spacesuit, 6.2 psi or even higher pressures. But right now, we're focused [D] Okay, so I'm a newbie to all this. [D] But I'm assuming, it sounds to me like [D] 6.2? [A] 6.2. If you operate at 6.2 psi, that sounds like more oxygen, So there must be a reason why you want to do that, because it sounds like it's going to be harder to operate, So why would you want to do this? [A] Yeah, that's a great question. And it all has to do And so that's the amount of time it takes you to get from the pressure that you're to the pressure that you're going And so, using the ISS as 7 psi, similar to us here on Earth. And the spacesuit is at 4.3 psi. Just like scuba divers have to deal with decompression sickness, pressure, it's the same And so getting to Like, literally three, [D] So they're in the suit [A] They are, [A] Yeah, part of it, Not in the suit. Part of it, they depress the entire And the crew lock, And then they get in the suit, and they do about an hour of what's So they alternate between, like, 15 minutes of rest and 15 minutes of light And so, yes, like, that entire process before they start their EVA is almost three [D] Okay. So, question, why? I'm assuming it has something to do with oxygen or nitrogen but, like, physiologically, [A] Yeah, exactly right. As you go to higher pressures, the nitrogen is dissolved into your And so if you decrease the pressure too fast, then those nitrogen bubbles, The bends. There's. There's a lot of bad [D] Oh, so because they're going to a lower pressure, you could get of the airlock or, you know, So you have to first get. It's like decompressing when you're going Scuba situation. [D] Same thing. [A] It's all about the speed And so in scuba diving, you go down, at the bottom tells you how long it [D] So by doing a higher pressure run So it's good because you don't I assume? We're trying to reduce the amount of time. [D] Do we know the amount Have we done the math? [A] Well, so it all depends on what And so, really, it's that distance. It's a distance between what your And so you can reduce that the astronauts live at and keep And that lowers the gap Another way to do it is increase the pressure of your suit, And so, in an ideal world, the pressure of your space vehicle, scenario, where all you have to do is get and everything, and then [D] I think in a science fiction environment, You're reading books and stuff like that, I'm just going to put It's not what happens at all. And I don't think people realize it. Like, astronauts go and do spacewalks that are like, 6 hours, And that in itself is one of the Not only that, they are doing this pre reset for, like, three, So they're in the suit So we want to minimize that pre breathe portion so that we can maximize their time and getting our science objectives [D] Okay, so I'm assuming the suit was Like, what suit are we going [A] So this will be what's called the XEMU. This is the NASA government reference design suit that they've been And so it's actually been So its pressure rate was rated or eight psi somewhere around there. And so this is all within normal bounds something we were going [D] So it's like a pathfinding type test. you'll apply it moving forward, [A] Correct. [D] Do we know what the chamber, You can tell. Do we know what the habitat [A] There are, yes, we do know that, and I'm not sure how much I can [D] It is a known thing. [A] It is a known thing, and it's one [D] We know where we're going to be, and we And that tells us what our pre [A] That's right. The program management folks are looking and we're just trying to understand Because this really has When we're on the surface of the moon. In these early missions, We want to do four eight If we have to spend an hour and a half, 2 hours, 3 hours doing pre [D] That's a long day. So that's kind of what all this effort is. And there's trades with all of these decisions, right, regarding So it's a complex decision to make. [D] Will they start the run Or will this be a high [A] So that's actually something that's really is the subjects will be blinded [D] Really? [A] Yes, I am blinded, and the rest So only a few people, and obviously the people here at the NBL know what the pressure is, We have the ability to run each So one person may be at a higher pressure, We don't know what decisions [D] The next morning, I showed up, to fill out some paperwork and do a pre where they just confirmed, from a health Remember the hypoxia video? She saved my life. Yeah. Pat took me poolside and introduced me to the person in the red shirt, Whoever's wearing a red shirt And you don't wear a red shirt We checked out the equipment and, well, And then I headed upstairs to catch a bit departments involved were going The two astronauts who'd be doing the dive Both are seasoned astronauts with a These are seasoned spacewalk experts. You can see through all this footage in microgravity, and they This, however, will be their first dive training with these new suits I headed down to the pool Okay, so we're poolside now. I see the thing in the pool. [Dom] Yeah, yeah. [Dom] So this is our partial [D] Yeah. [Dom] And that's gonna go all Right now, we're just trying to get Those load cells are, you know, the accuracy and precision if So the 86 degree water is So we put it in. That'll go all the way to the bottom, they'll be able to walk The divers will adjust that. They'll have a good 1/6th, [D] So here's the way outstand. And I'm seeing rocks over there. I'm sorry, how is this working? [Dom] Okay, so this semicircular here is a representative of the human And so we'll have, there's an airlock So they'll walk out of that airlock. They'll go into this little front porch area, which is actually representative to the surface, because Be the elevator that The rectangular part out there. [Dom] And then they'll walk off that ramp. Normally, it'd be about a 30 foot lower, We just walk out here. They close up. They open the door. I walk out, and I start And so the rocks are there. So when we have our lighting intensity, it throws those shadows, gives them the [D] So these models in the neutral buoyancy They're mostly made out of materials that won't corrode, like stainless steel That's why you see the grating down there. And so when I looked at this ring, You know, it's just a. It's a psychological representation And then I was like, wait a second. That's a big rocket. And then I got excited. I started thinking about all the engineers designing things to go in there and, like, And so I got excited about it. But at the same time, right now, it's just It's like a little playground. And so I thought that was really interesting, and it took my mind to weird bigger than what Neil And so this is the first moment So I'm thinking about the gloves, because that's going to be And they're putting the gloves on now. Randy's requesting a certain tension in the gloves, so that's going to be So there's actually a bar across the palm. Right where it folds there. And that's what they were tightening So it pulls that part in so. It'S not just a balloon Yeah. So after they finish getting they hoist them on a platform [Female voice over com] TDECs system alarms No alarms present that will impact. Testing. [Greg] Copy that, no alarms. Good morning, safety divers. This is Greg, your test director. Copy on one. Let me check this back up. All right, safety divers. How do you read me, EV-1 safety. Copy that, EV-1. EV-2, how do you read [EV-1] EV-1 loud and clear. [G] Loud and clear on backup. All right, safety divers. Purge all air trapped by the delta Please give me an okay sound when complete. Copy on two. Thank you. Safety divers. [D] So at this point, we have astronauts They have, like, 6 hours of dive time, and So I decided I was going to stagger when I got in the pool so I could observe So while they were doing their leak So does this get old? [A] Does this get old? It does not get old. I'm actually a test conductor in training, so that this is my third time kind And it is just so much fun. I mean, look at, this is one of the. This is the premier underwater training and I get to be the person that talks the test team, and you can just see how not only to pull it off in general, And so it's just. It's a dream come true to be here. [D] So, at the end of the day, [A] At the end of the day, I have somebody evaluating me, and. And hopefully I'll get thumbs up. I got to know, who's that? [A] Her name is Tess. She's up there sitting in my seat [D] Oh, I got to talk to Tess. She'll be my partner in crime. [A] And my evaluator. All right. [A] yes, thank you. [D] We're gonna be judging [A] That's all right. You know, if you're. If you can't handle pressure, well, There's a lot of people. But I love the pressure. It's kind of like being Okay. [D] That's cool. As Randy and Jessica made their way the trimming and weighing out with one of the suit What was your name? and I'm an advanced suit engineer [D] So I saw Joel over here And you were working with Jessica [C] Yes. [C] I went to Kansas State University to get [D] That is the correct type of engineering [C] I know, and then I started full Been working on the team since then. [D] Okay, so what were you doing with Jessica? [C] So I was getting her ready because So I'm going helping through all So that's suit donning, making sure that her cooling Getting her comfortably in the suit. Making sure that all of our straps are tight, so we have boot tightening straps Same with her gloves. Making sure she can reach her valsalva when she gets pressurized, that we [D] Now, the valsalva, my understanding, like, I'm about to dive here, and when I go [C] Yep. [D] So what do you do? So it's basically a foam block their nostrils, similar to, like, when And it helps just for you And some people don't need to use it. They can just swallow or move their jaw. But sometimes you need that extra little So they use that device. [D] Oh, that's awesome. So how long have you been doing this? [C] So, I've been doing this for eight [D] Do you love it? So much fun. You like working with the astronauts? It's always a great day when we [EV-2] On the bottom. [Greg] Copy that. All right, we're gonna go ahead I'll turn it over to Mister Peterman, [D] So are you dedicated to Jessica's suit, [C] So I work on the XCMU. Specifically, I'm one of our suit test engineers, so I help run I also am supporting the XC Bas contract. So XCBAs is the exploration suits that we're gonna be working with Aceiom So I'm helping on the insight team. So, from the government, reviewing their suit design, safely, so that way, government reference to their suits [D] You're wicked smart. It's so good talking That's great. Thank you so much. the astronauts to first make them They tipped them over and spun them around positions until no matter what orientation they would float completely still once They then had them stand on the bottom and added more weights evenly to create After that, they walk over to the partial an upright measurement that gives them of the center of gravity Then the divers tip them forward 20 And the intersection of those two vectors is where the center of gravity [inaudible] The team topside analyzes this information of where they want the center In this case, Jessica's suit requires an adjustment because the data Safety divers for EV-2. Let me get you to take a two pound And, Jessica, just some So, looking at the numbers, a little bit further away than So the team is just going to remove these your CB and CG and also get All right, here we go. Got the suit on. We're good to go. Okay. I was very excited. Even though they keep the pool at a balmy because if you're in the water for several So we got everything suited up, made sure the equipment worked, Once we first descended into the water, It was surreal to swim over a life size My favorite thing was It's a mock up that they use only it doesn't use electrical actuators It was amazing. I kind of got my bearings and then we went all the way down 40ft deep As we approached the bottom, Pat gave me very clear instructions And I wanted to be a good little diver and So I made sure that I asked As I approached the bottom of the pool, on the two suited individuals before They were focused on the task at hand And it was at this moment I wanted to know which of these And I was jealous of the technicians that turned the knobs But for now, it was as simple as At some point, Pat told me that I could explore if I wanted to, So I swam up to some of the ISS modules of the nodes and look around and I To manipulate the latches I'm pretty familiar with the I've been in mock ups before, But floating in the International Space Like the fact that I was in a 3d interaction with it instead It felt different and it instantly made me understand why the neutral Important. While I was exploring, to trim out the astronauts, and I After exploring a little bit, Pat took me down to the lunar simulation because there were little bitty Easter You remember when Alan Shepard Where did the ball go? I'll tell you where it went right here. The engineers put it into the rock. I thought that was awesome. Also, Pat took me down to the bottom of the pool, and I was surprised to see that we heard from earlier explaining one Okay, to begin the lunar run, I'm going They would begin inside HLS in an airlock, and then they would go out into a lock, will be the elevator, Then they'll go out onto the lunar So, of course, I wanted to position myself coming off the elevator, Thank you so much. And, diver, do you have a go to? Once the astronauts came out and started exploring the lunar surface, control was kind of micromanaging They would say, go get this Now go retrieve this, I would expect them to say, hey. You're on the moon. Go explore. But it was different than I expected, Adam, in this case, the variables so they could compare the At least that's my assumption. For example, there was a pegboard like structure with a hose that they I'm assuming every astronaut had to manipulate these to test their One of the signs of a good scuba diver is the ability to control your buoyancy I was having to kick and fin all over to be, whereas these divers clearly had and in the area around them, They could just float This told me that they knew exactly what they were doing, divers had started to become more clear to keep the hoses out Others were a safety observation. They were making sure that the The camera operators were making sure that the test conductors could see It was like a beautiful, choreographed dance, and people were controlling And I was just trying Pat was so much better So at one point, I gave him the camera, and I said, pat, I want a shot I want to see how they're Can you go get that shot for me? And of course he did. Look at how much the astronaut is This goes back to that one. Six g we were talking about. They're not actually getting a lot weigh as much, so they're having to lean Think back to that quote earlier. You're six times more sluggish You can see it happening right here. The most incredible thing I saw Randy was working on his knees, created a fall, and why he fell is Let's watch the whole thing play out first, and then we'll go back [Man over the PA] The last thing you'll need is the tongs. And so you walk back to the cart to grab that, and then you can Did you see what happened? Watch it again, and let's talk about it. So Randy kind of mismanages his cg just a little bit because he's And then it starts to take him over. Now, anyway, when Randy falls, She comes over and she says, are you okay? And then Randy apparently tells her, yes, you have another diver getting And then she makes Randy He has to figure it out, and he does. He figures out how to get back up, And all the while, And I thought that was amazing. It was so cool to see this I was feet away from this when it was with you because we are getting to see an Randy's having to figure out how to manage his cg and that's important for walking to factor in to make As they started testing the suits, walking up a grade, the dive supervisor I wanted to stay on the moon, As I swam back up, I was thinking I was so thankful to be able to do this. And when I got to the top, I thanked Pat for such an amazing dive and After I was cleared from the test supervisor, I hit the showers, washed off, to hear Adam doing some of the qualitative First up is perceived exertion. So this is that zero to ten scale. Thanks again. to talking more about it Sounds good. A lot of fun. Sorry ISS, So this was Adam doing [Tess] Yeah. [D] And you were observing Adam as, That's what's about to happen. [D] So how did he do? [D] Did he? I think we all kind of knew going [D] Yeah? [T] And he did not decide It's fun with these guys because they've they've gone through the basics So they learned how to move in that suit, and this is almost resetting them back And so they understand the mindset for learning these things, Go see what the astronauts Let's start by talking to Randy. I noticed that you were having trouble at one point standing up It's the first time you [Randy] The way out is what you Where's that center of gravity and how much does it tip you over And so without as much traction on the ground when you go out there and stabilize And so there's one point where I ended up falling onto my back and where I was I was able to get enough traction get me up on a shoulder and then be When I was in the simulator, I was like. I was just spinning around until I finally the center of gravity up [D] So it was interesting why watching that, because you were problem solving in real get to figure that out here instead of, You'll say, oh, well, with this suit, I can do this. Do you learn things like that? And that's the whole reason why we have this facility and do our EVA training because you figure out that we've come up is up and down is down, station and train for microgravity And you have to force yourself to get out to get in the right position Or maybe it's even inverted, whole toolkit, a whole array And so that was the same thing, Well, that didn't work. All right, let's try this. Okay, let's try this leg back And so it was trial and error, [D] What do you think about the tools they [R] They were evaluating and evolving tools. We got some improvements, with the suit and certainly [D] Thank you so much. Okay, end of the day here. First of all, how on earth do you do this much stuff in a day I'm so thankful for everything. How was the run for you? [Jessica] It was so much fun today. I really had a blast. Personally. to be very difficult using I thought, you know, based on the suit fit offloaded run that I had, And I'm also used to being in the EMU the spacesuit that we And those runs are super taxing. If it's a difficult kind of normal run, like metabolic equivalent of running You're just, like, And I feel like I could go do So it was only a fraction And I think the main reason for that is because you actually can use You can use your entire body. You're using your big leg muscles to walk around, you're using your core muscles, for the types of things that we In the emu, you're doing everything so you're moving yourself, moving your entire body and the whole mass then doing all the intricate tools whereas here you had just So I think that's why it [D] It felt more natural. [J] It did feel more natural, which makes sense because we evolved with [D] So you're upright. Like, you actually have [J] Absolutely, yeah. [J] That does make righting yourself [D] I noticed you found a, I'm just going to do You found a squat. That kind of felt good to you. [J] I did, and that was surprising to me, too. Based on some of the earlier stuff, I had a lot more stability than I What really worked well for me was I could But actually, I had even more [D] I saw that, position, and I felt surprisingly, like, [D] So it was interesting. I was in the room when. When they were talking They're like, she found something So thank you so much for your time. Do you think it was a good test? [J] It was great, yeah. Hopefully it really will inform. You know, the biggest question of the test today were the different We don't know for sure I have a, I felt pretty confident [D] Are you allowed to say? I don't know that it really matters, I don't have nothing to compare it to right now, but it felt like I didn't feel more fatigued in my hands as I anticipated I would I had done one of the earlier glove box tests and did notice a very marked fatigue and dexterity So my hunch today is that it was normal. If this was a higher pressure, because if it's this easy at the [D] I noticed Randy was struggling That was my observation from the bottom. But I'm not a smart NASA [J] Well, and interestingly, it could just be. Be that I'm better than Randy, you know? Just kidding. Yeah. Pressure, and I could have That was one of the permutations, was that It's funny, I had to kind of remind I'm like, oh, I wonder what this is relative to when we're It's a little bit difficult when you were You know, you have a sliding score, but still, every individual [D] Well, thank you so much. First one here this morning, I'm impressed by you. I know it's the first time we met, [J] Thanks so much, Destin. [J] Great meeting you. [D] So the big question that we had at the The question is, what is the atmospheric That's a big question. Now that we know all this stuff that we learned in this episode, On the International Space Station, the atmospheric pressure is If I want to go out on a spacewalk, and then get my suit on and then pre That might make sense. which is a lab in orbit designed to study It would make sense for the only variable to be gravity on Earth, Right? That's not the case on the moon. The mission for the moon is EVAs are kind of the point. So if we have an environment where we're trying to do EVAs, it seems like we would conducive to EVAs, meaning we So the question I have is, well, Now, I know Apollo was It wasn't like a sustained human presence they had atmospheres of around So they could just put on their suit, and they could go outside It's called a zero pre breathe time. That is the goal. You go forward, and you start Skylab was a 22 foot diameter spacecraft, diameter hls we're going Skylab had a five psi oxygen rich And so when they did EVAs, Now, that all sounds great, like, oh, well, let's just make everything five psi, except that an oxygen rich Apollo engineers spent an incredible specifically looking at what There's also other issues. Today we have modern electronics that rely on dumping heat off It's not as efficient if you have lower of your off the shelf electronics if On one end, we have pre breathe time, and That's the most simple you can make this discussion, but there's a whole spectrum The reason I say this decision is exploration is because Do we have a spacecraft So is Orion going to go to gateway? And they're all the same pressure? They have different So. If I was NASA, this is I would try to design my hardware so That way, if I'm going down I'm going to try to maximize the number minimize the number If I'm going forward and I'm going for a longer duration mission, for humans in a decreased pressure Maybe it would make sense for a longer This adaptable architecture would For example, the Russians, they sometimes start their spacewalks And so when they start the EVA, and then they transit to the place And then they decrease the pressure. And that way their gloves are more pliable, and they don't have to pre did the pre breathing as they It's a fascinating strategy. That's pretty clever. The neutral buoyancy lab is right in the middle of making all There's other ways you can get more data, and with suspension, five, six g offset, But the neutral buoyancy lab And as a taxpayer, And I think it's really, really cool And all the divers. I was so impressed by all the personnel. So I love this. I hope you enjoyed this episode. For me, this was a treat. I mean, this was wonderful. Big thanks to everyone at NASA for putting I'm so grateful. Also, I want to say thanks to everybody that supports on Patreon, I mean, this is not a normal I'm aware of that, So we did this together, and I'm grateful. I also want to say thank you again to the sponsor of this episode, You can check that out at eight sleep. I got an eight sleep pod before So it's a good product. I'm Destin. Have a good one. So when you get done and your clothes are I've got my wet underwear And it spins it up. I need one of these. Okay. Getting Smarter Every Day.