I think this is the best combo in Mario Kart 8 Glider. See that Yoshi Teddy Buggy right in front actually has exactly the same stats as the one because Yoshi and Peach have the same stats. Um, uh, this is not my main. I don't have a main, I based on stats, then yes, I would pick this one. the one I'm the most comfortable with, probably don't know, I don't play for stats that much. characters because, honestly, I think that's a balanced that I don't really care. But if I had And let me answer why. So, uh, one of the other popular one. I've already used that one, and I session racing with it, even though I made some um, do better this session on what I think is the I'll get a lot of first places. So, this combo I best one from the moment that DLC Wave 4 came out, then I was like, okay, let me look at the stat best. And I immediately came upon this combo. all the characters with the same stats as Peach um, I'll explain why. But yeah, I got Yoshi twice. [laughs] A pretty uneventful when you're playing a good combo. You can Wow, a lot of Yoshi players in this room, but and joining the Yoshi Inkstriker hive mind. People Wiggler times, I mean, those are dark times, and on Yoshi. But now we have so many characters that to each other. Like, I'll give you an example. If use that. But you can also swap your Inkstriker of Inkstriker. So, this gives you nearly identical like more invincibility, but you get slightly less this is literally better because you don't need like, that's just one example. Uh, back to about out of all of them? Because a lot of characters use Baby Rosalina Biddybuggy. And, uh, the reason right? But then I came to learn that actually mini turbo stat. You're making too much sacrifice this one, I was like, wait a minute, Baby Rosalina one is only two points away from maximum mini I'm sacrificing only two points of mini Turns out I'm gaining, I think it was right? A trade-off of six to two is insane. That one in their right mind who plays competitive And we are having a differential of plus four, this combo is busted, especially because, uh, the like, we're getting so much mini turbo. and we have so much speed still. We're So, I just realized I won the last two races, like ranting about this game. Um, I'm not as good look, bananas, but I can't stop because it's All right, uh, yeah, so I'll just end that rant. combos because it's not that hard. And lemme, fall ground for a second. Oooh, okay, playing this one on 3DS Rainbow Road because no shortcuts, can't and good items, which is, uh, not something we can see that we have a Waluigi player here Waluigi, they actually like Waluigi, no, maybe they just didn't hear the news and They're like, why are there so many Yoshis like before when someone used Yoshi, Yoshi was you must just like Yoshi. But now it's like, Peach, Birdo, or Daisy, or you just don't even okay, let's try to make this comeback here. Oh, mushroom's not great on this boost panel section. glider when you're small, and that was the perfect here. It's not going to do much, I think. I think Oh, throw your red shell, throw your-- [laughs] hit. I'm in first. [laughs] Wow. Oh, they should because they would have seen me holding a red defense away. I did not deserve that first place. actually not great for this combo because you speed, and that is what Inkstriker has. So, So, if I was trying to like counter-pick my then I would actually switch to Inkstriker so I'm gonna save this for the ending shortcut. I it now. I don't know if I have enough speed uh, without a mushroom. Like, I can do it with and loving the mini turbo stat, I can Makes those turns less awkward. I just realized Oh, that's a red shell, but I I'm not gonna let go of these. I do not want that I'm gonna use it, actually, because, uh, people rid of my second banana in time, so unfortunate. I'm gonna go around again, I Oh, star. I'm gonna stay wide, they might activate hit him, they moved right at that moment. I should See if you can activate that in time. Yeah, Stop threatening me with it. [Music] Okay, I'm gonna toss this-- Oh, they tossed I'm taking the shortcut for no reason. Oh, okay, okay, fourth place. I didn't get good so I'm happy with fourth. Plus, this is like or pretty much any other combo. Alright, Music try not to get bumped off here. I'm gonna do that and then gave me quite the bump. Alright, able to get the double item box here. Okay, they Oh geez, I released that by accident. It's fine, I almost didn't make it up onto the land. Oh, back there. I'll try not to get hit. I have I'll try not to flash the And those plants cannot get you when I have red shell and blue shell protection Oh no, boost panel, please no. I was actually okay but it knocked me after the boost so this is really bad now. These items are great [Music] It's actually kind of okay because the items. Yeah, I actually gained positions because I think I was in sixth when I got Did I not see those items, or did they before that happened? But I don't No, I couldn't get the double item box, I had to Okay, this is gonna be a bad race, but I there. Oh my geez. Oh, stay in the Jump! Oh, barely. Don't lose placements, second place. Yeah, second place was really and then the shock came when I was on the glider. that is so cute. Took all my coins, though--robbed Alright, so uh one reason why I really like this it has high are mini turbo, acceleration um, yeah, they're important, right? They're some of the most but the problem is I can't really feel speed. You you play a fast combo versus a slow combo, you the speed stat in this game, and like when you acceleration in this game because you get hit a contrast stats. You can feel the acceleration I like trying to focus on stats that I can feel, not like writing down the exact placements I I'm doing a video about that. But, I'm not the so this one performed two percent better, so I'm want to feel good playing this game, and being helps with the quality of life in this obviously, like that's one of the main But yeah, like, being able to get that purple Okay, I'm not getting double item box, I There's another red shell behind me. Okay, I have no red shell protection for now. Oh, I didn't even realize I'm in the 14,000s now. again, the Inkstriker has a bit more of an So on the slippery road, it's But these mini turbos are feeling nice. I'm gonna lot safer at first. I got lucky getting a defense This is one of my worst tracks. Honestly, like, because it's an easy layout to memorize, but I to take, so I kind of just make it up every single of that. I just know you're supposed to go for supposed to get a mini turbo trick. Alright, let's One thing that's very important in this game when to go out of your way for a lot of these coins oh, item roulette lag, and the blue shell still but it gave me a mushroom in first place. I Alright, let's try not to get hit here. I'm gonna let's go underwater; probably other Got lucky that red shell wasn't coming for Couldn't get that item, but we're back up to grab the coins into the glider just in case Wow, I got third. I think that Yoshi Oh no, I think they did crash into the wall--that's exact same brain cell. I feel like as I've moved often, and I think it's just people really like to a lot of people didn't like Mushroom Gorge, and I they're not that fun unless you super bounce. which lower-level players don't know how to do, so were just playing this game for the first time, But look at that. Look at how far I'm bouncing and then I can gap jump, and I'm in first with a anymore. Oh, this sucks. Yeah, I'm just gonna and they almost sniped me. They actually got good toss. What do you have, a coin? Oh, and Hey, cool, invincibility frames. Okay, okay, everything's good, everything's good. Only a single item box coming up next, Okay, I thought I watched them fail the with Japanese players, it's very often I see Oh, I messed up, and I didn't even get the box. is winning unless I can get a lot of red shells Don't hit me, don't hit me. Did And that didn't go for me. Oh, well, nothing I could do. I'm surprised that somehow ended up with the red shells. Like, my dodged the blue shell. I like the current meta different combos, but we're actually on extremely Yoshi Inkstriker are just like one stat away in I'm using in terms of speed and mini turbo at the other stats are not that important--not Okay, and we're going to take the right path Let's just hit someone just for fun--that's Okay, I don't know these lines in mirror it's not too hard. It's just I can't do like mini turbo tricks and stuff. Okay, I Get up to 10 coins and dodge that red shell. It's with a bomb because if you mess up the timing, at least. I'm pretty sure on 200cc, you can [Music] Alright, so we have a bit of a See if I can get better items here. What? just... While I was thinking of that, I mini turbo stat, give me a purple here. Nice. Not that was not good. Like, I got to stay in the behind me, even longer than me. Other way. I hate the courses. It just makes it slightly harder if it showed up equally as often, maybe I wouldn't is just difficulty for difficulty's sake, it [Music] Oh, blue shell. I don't think I can... I What? [Music] I should not have My only hope now is a shock, and everyone Okay, I got second last. Wow. I think I waited so bad. Felt like Baby Rosalina getting bumped in a row, this is just great. Please don't take get to the front. Release my boost. I don't then I can get trailed. See, now I managed to don't know how I dodged the trail. I feel like I spend some of that time in a wide line was really drafting is kind of really important because in all just gonna get hit by everything that everyone Like, people talk a lot about like, &quot;Oh, being in blue shell.&quot; Yeah, but there's gonna be like you can get hit by literally everything else. for me, so I panicked. This is kind of bad And I don't think it's worth taking the slow taking the slow path. I'm gonna do this. [Music] Alright, that worked out. Still in place by taking the slow path, but I figured It's not worth being like slightly faster at but this is fine. I'm gonna take the glider made that change where you can't get shocked in a I have been just taking every glider that I still aren't that nearby, this is really good for Another blue shell, and I can't-- I'm too far ahead Just release my mini turbo as soon as I can-- No! Ugh, two blue shells. That's unlucky, but frontrunning track. And one of the reasons it's lot of items, and I had to go out of my way to I cannot believe we just got mirror mode three never seen that. I don't think I've even seen maybe it's happened, but I don't remember it, I'm gonna mess everything up. Look at how high I box. [Music] It's because I don't know exactly, on mirror mode. Oh, and I'm going kind of the What? I'm going off the edge. Yep. Alright, uh, I'm gonna do this simple version of that gap jump Please make it up. Yes! I'm in first Oh, I'm gonna get sniped here for sure. Oh, they didn't throw any of it. Okay, it's on DK Summit because there's all these half pipes even though it's not optimal to do it that way. Oh, I got an item. Sweet. Coin. Use it. Get my you do is not that important. I'm just going for do the simple version. Oh, I can't even do the was a good shortcut. I wonder how much mirror mode But I don't know, I feel like I'm like average I'm actually better than the people in this room with mirror mode, and some for some people it's of in between. Oh no, mirror mode. All right, You know what's so funny? Oh, never mind. good there because you spend all your time but that was not good because somehow cool. Another win on DK Summit. I mean, I'm not Alright, we got Electrodrome in celebration of strat. Unfortunately, we are not on 200cc, so I like, honestly, I would attempt it. I'm gonna shell to slow down a little bit, got hit anyway. doesn't matter to me. I'm not hurt at all. Cool. As soon as I noticed that I got a single Oooh, terrible shortcut. Maybe all those mess-ups blue shelled now. Look, I'm like, I'm like right great spot. Okay, I'm gonna need to watch out is such a good throw. Props, whoever threw that. always a lot of people taking the pink path, so I Toss those. Okay, let's use I would love mushrooms, though. That Yoshi's not gonna know what hit him. of that because that has happened to me so and I have no clue what just happened. Oh, trail you. Yes! [laughs] Trailing is so broken blue shelled so I don't even have to look out taken the final shortcut and maybe won, but we'll Oh, nice. I'm gonna get rid Let's go! Oh, Alberto would be proud, I think. shortcut way better than I did. Get some mini Alright, that's better than where I started. Okay, at least I messed up everyone Messed that up. We're gonna go So go there for the double item box. I feel It's really useful. Don't drop I want to be next to the Yoshi, but not directly Okay, actually I'm just gonna have my bananas Okay, I think I hit the Yoshi and that put really bad. I thought it was the red shell to hit somebody and then pass them when they Oh, use that, I messed up so bad. This bullet's We hit all the bananas, that was so funny. Okay let's do this little shortcut here, and chain nice. No! I lost my red-- my mushrooms. Okay the boo threw a red shell or something. Wow, That's Mario Kart for ya!