(upbeat music) (submarine sonar ping) - Hey, it's me, Destin. Welcome back to Smarter Every Day. Earlier this year, I had an a U.S. Navy nuclear submarine This is the next video deep dive series into So far, we've learned and how torpedo tubes work, and there's a lot more videos to come. Given the fact that while we're literally under several feet of ice, it's very important to me situations that could jeopardize the boat. We have to be able to fix these problems from within the submarine, because a little problem could grow into a big problem in a hurry. So the word of the day for this video is: - Casualty. - Casualty. - Casualty. What is a casualty? - Casualty is what we call any kind of problem, I guess you can say. So a fire, a flooding, So we are... One of the biggest it's like I talked about, submarine's a very is to very rapidly, aggressively in order to save the So that's what we spend a - This is Matt. Chief Charleton is gonna to walk us through the to fire or flooding on the boat. - Okay, we just got in, and we have to get trained on what to do in the event there's a fire. - You sink it, no ability to surface, no fresh air, right? So we have EABs, Emergency So you have these manifolds What you do is you turn this right, it's just a little plug that'll fall out. If you look on the deck here, if you have a rectangular that means it's directly overhead. If you have one of then it's kind of on the bulkhead and you have to just look for it. - Got it. - So the first step you wanna do is save yourself. Plug the hose in, so you have an air supply. (air hisses) And you kinda gotta shove it up in there. Some of them are a little And then you always want to clip this on your belt on the left side, because in a smoke-filled compartment, you're not gonna be able to see anything, so you have to kind of feel around. So if somebody is always then you know where it's gonna be. - Okay. - Somebody taps you, you - Oh, okay, you share. - Yep, and then what you do is you put your chin in the bottom here and pull the straps up over your face, and then you tighten then you tighten the top. And the you pull the and so this is to protect Obviously, you wanna roll You wanna get out of the affected But this is going to let you breathe in a smoke-filled compartment. - Yes, sir. - Can I try it? - Yep. - So first things first, I'm - Left side. - Left side, left side. Just plug it straight in, or is- - You got to shove it (air hisses) There you go. All right, then you pull your mask on. Let me get my... - Done? - All right, so now if you want to check and make sure you've got a good seal, what you'll do is you'll take a breath in, twist that to the clockwise, and then you're gonna wanna hold it, 'cause it's gonna pop out. And then make sure If you get any air in there, then you're not gonna get a good seal, and you can get some- (air hisses) (indistinct) So now plug it back in. (air hisses) Good to go. - Cool, that's easy. And the right thing to do before I do that, right? - You can, that's just a submarine thing. You wanna let people know that &quot;Hey, I'm gonna cause a noise.&quot; It's not really normal So if we hear that, it could and say, &quot;Hey, what's going on?&quot; So we just kinda do that what's going on. - Got you. - So in fire, I would - Nobody cares in fire, so I say-- - In a fire, if you're we'll all gonna look at - Air! So I did that wrong? - Yeah. - (laughing) I'm supposed - (indistinct) - Yeah, okay, yeah. The things you learn on the So where would this be located? - Crew's mess is like a that's off, we're just - Yeah. - And if a fire was to because they're out here, They're not gonna run into and then run to the - So what does the call sound If there's a- - There would be an which is the general speaker, followed by a general alarm, it's just... It bongs for about 26 seconds, and then it'll turn off and And it will do a big long with the class is, how to route - We're going to come back a fight a fire together. But first, let's head if water starts to flood the boat. Okay, so we're in the torpedo That's a torpedo by my foot, But my understanding is this is the room that's most likely to - Yes, sir. - Now why is that? - So we have the torpedo tubes So we have one here, or two here. - Yeah. - And then two on the port - Okay, got it. So the idea is if you get it's gonna come in, water's gonna be everywhere here, and you gotta get it out fast. - Absolutely. - And so this is a - Yes sir, so that's a I could put this in any of our bilges, connect it to pump the water off. - What do you connecting to? - So it's a big hose, that we have here, but a lot bigger. - So how long would it - As soon as you turn that pump on, it's gonna empty in about five seconds. - God. - That's why we have two fire We have to discharge both and maintain the drain rate - That is a serious pump. - And you'll see it jump a few just from that unusual surge. And then the hose will pressurize the drain header, and then they'll use the drain pump, which is back aft to pump - Really? - Mm-hmm. - So it has to pump it at than the depth that we're at, right? - Correct, yeah, so the variable speed. We'll use that to pump overboard - That's amazing. So that pump line is going to come alive. - Yep. - So it'll smack him upside the head. - Right in the face. - I probably deserve it. (laughs) (pump whirring) - Whoa. - As you can see, it's so now they're having to And you want to keep it covered, but obviously we don't 'cause the more stuff you make a mess the more you have to clean up later, so. - Right. - So we can go ahead and... - Kill. - I'm closing it. - Secure the drain pump. - All right, shut the bilge. - They're shut. - Mine's shut. (water splashing) (indistinct) - Surge pump, surge pump. - Stand by. - It's the hose back filling. - Some of it is, yeah. - Yeah. - Start the pump. (indistinct) - All right, Stop the pump. - Stop the pump. And stop the drain pump. - That's a lot. - That is a lot. - So like, a little bit - A little bit. - So what happens to that water? - So there's actually a so we'll go in and there's a bilge such that we can use And then the rest of it that we can't get, that's below the section, we can use just the Clean that up, dump it into a funnel, and it'll fill up one of the submersible bilges that we have. - Really? - And we'll consolidate all that stuff, and then we pump it overboard. - Wow. That's amazing, can I follow that hose? - Yeah. - I can follow that hose? So I'm following that drain hose. So I went this way? (whispering) Oh man, straight This is where people sleep. Right there. This where it goes? That's where it ends up. - That's right in down there, - Back in the crew mess, quickly becoming one Yeah? What're we doing? - All right, so right now we're gonna do a simulation of the, putting a temporary patch on leaking during the flooding - It's just copper pipe. - It's just a copper pipe. It's open-ended just the simulation so... - What kind of material is this? - It's a piece of bent steel so that way when we it kind of digs in, creates like a gasket. - Yeah. - Holds everything together. - Cool, rock and roll. Does this happen a lot? - No. - It's a bad day if it does this. - Oh yeah, a horrible day. - And so what they're doing now is that they're applying And what that's gonna do for them is, imagine that pipe was ruptured, and so the flooding would So what they're doing is the chain wrench is gonna hold that and band it in place, so that they can apply and then eventually secure that, and then that's what's actually But in the meantime, they're not just gonna 'cause depending on what your depth is, that could be too much force It's gonna be about a two person job. They've got their personal and the gloves they don't cut theirself on the metal of straps. They apply the patch to the pipe, kind of off from where the leak is, so the leak is still gonna be going on. Imagine like straight out this way. - Yep. - But this is gonna be off-center, so that you can get the so that when you roll it it doesn't fly off and So now that he's holding that, he's got the chain wrench on there, he's going to apply the strapping, and that's what's gonna hold So they do it on one side, they'll dog it down, is what it's called, with our bandit tool, which is what he has there. So they'll apply that to wind that up, and that will create - Oh, got it, I see it now. - Yep, so as he winds that up, that'll apply the tension. And then once you start to see a crease along the edge of here on the strapping, that's when you know it's actually taken the pressure off of the leak, and it's applying it to the strong back. - So the blue is called the strong back? - Yep, yep. - And what's the gasket material called? - It's just a gasket. - Got it. - The rubber... - Got it. So that's the band. So this is a permanent band? Or, well, it's not a permanent fix, but it's pretty close to it. - This would be as close as we can get without doing some sort of weld repair or pulling into port and getting an IMA to come down here and fix the pipe for us. So in the meantime, this would allow us to like casualty restore system. If it was something that we we could do that by applying and that would stop the flooding. - So you're at sea, at depth, you spring a leak, this is what you do. - Yep. - So are you maintenance, or what's your, - Me? - So I am a machinist mate, so I'm a mechanic, but I just worked back in the engine room. But damage control is just an important part for everyone to do. - So you have, you said machinist, so do you guys have a mill - We do. - Really, can you show me that? - I can't unfortunately. - Oh, you can't? - It's back in the engine room. - Ah, everything's in the engine room. - Everything cool is in the engine room. - Oh, man. - Every person on board has to be able to stop flooding, put fires So if you see a guy with that means that they have So far, you've seen a a non-nuclear machinist mate, in a second you'll see a cook electricians down in the torpedo room, you have torpedo room, So no matter what your you have to know how to fight a casualty. And the two big ones for - Really? - So that's what's unique Other communities have special guys that that's their whole job, But everyone here does, from knows how to stop a casualty. That's a big deal. So this is it, huh? - So that's it. Done deal. - So she's sealed up, huh? - Yep, so in a matter we're now able to ascend with just this temporary - That'll handle 2000 TSI? - Yes. - Wow. - And with each, or with that's an extra thousand, - Really? - Yes. - Wow. So, man that's legit. It's a little bit harder when I'm assuming. - You guys ever done it? - We do a trainer every now and again, up at the upper basin, you and they actually have You gotta run around, try and get it before water gets too high. - Oh really? - So water's coming in on you. - Oh yeah. - It'll fill up like a they'll pump thousands of gallons a minute through this big rupture in a pipe, and you gotta get in there, and you're wading waist deep, hands cold, you got you're trying to apply But we send as many and it's pretty awesome training. - Oh yeah, 'cause like, just that means you just got - Yeah, if you do it in the winter time, the water is significantly colder so, - Really? - Extra motivation to get the pipe wrench on there quickly. - Wow, that's amazing. - Captain's about to simulate a fire, and we're going to, you're - I'm not putting it out. So here, we're testing the So we, our metric is a minute. We want a minute, we want guys in here, extinguishing agent on the fire, because within about two minutes, if there's a fire about the size of a, of a trash bag, it would make the forward compartment, control room fill with smoke So we practice all the time to quickly secure the power to put the fire out, and then watch standers... And again, like I said before, you'll see nuke electricians, you'll see nuke mechanics, They all come rapidly respond, and senior chief's gonna talk you through that whole sequence of events. But it's gonna be right there. - Do they know it's coming? - Oh no, we do it all the time, surprise. - Okay, cool, sweet. - This time yes, but normally as like a surprise. - Yeah, sweet. - So he'll walk you through this- - So are you about to start a - When I get the word. (laughs) - Again, the name of the game is we can't really light off a fire onboard, so we have to simulate everything we do and clue people in with just something visual So we use a small bicycle light here, that'll simulate that there's a fire in this electrical component, so somebody should call that away. And then if it was to spread, this is all lagged so that's we would plug these rope lights in, and it would spread to the And then from there it would and up where it would go just straight up if it's in an open space, right? So you always man the scene, as well as the vertical spread so that you can attack that So what I'll do right now is I'll light off this electrical fire and then our Galley Watch in this space. - Code red, Code red. Code red, code red. Code red on forward compartment. Red for panel P15. - And so what he's just done is he's- - Code red in forward compartment. Code red in forward compartment middle level. Slash Charlie Code red... - So are you judging them right now? - Always. - Always. (laughs) Always judging. (man yelling) - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey... - And so what he's done the Chief of Watch knows. So everybody now knows and they can secure power. We want that done within - I relieve you! - So that we can hopefully because it's (indistinct). (man shouts) So we've gotten our initial responders, he's come through, he's starting to fighting he's now been relieved by They brought portable They've secured power, - Code red, power secured - All right, so (indistinct) and so now he's here to don like we showed you earlier, and he's gonna relieve the unprotected person And you'll see right behind you, that CS1 just showed up - I got the fire hose, I relieve you. - You relieve me, aye. - Pressurize the hose. - Pressurize the hose. - All right, so now we've (man yelling) So we've now, we've testing our agent, we now have a continuous and that's something that we can sustain. Extinguishers lasts for about 45 seconds, but now that we have a fire hose, our EAB watch stander is going to relieve the hose man who's not And now we have a semi-sustained He'll continue to burst by off-going watch standers or so, we always have somebody on watch. We always have somebody driving back aft operating the engine room. And so those are initial They're gonna be awake, they don't have any other duties. So they are fighting the are dressing out in like you would see show up at your house if your house is on fire. - Oh wow. - So in a minute or two, you're gonna see watch standers and that'll be a team of three personnel. It'll be leader with a It's got a NFTI. He's gonna be your eyes and ears. And then you'll have a that are dressed out. And that's your fully sustained Our metric for that is six minutes, so we assume that, if we apply agent within like the captain was talking about, and secure power, then the fire should go out. If not, we've got our now (men shouting) So now they are relieved by FFP team. So we've got our hoseman, our nozzleman, and then Chief Beinholtz so he's the eyes and ears. And this entire compartment so they can't see. He's the only one that can see. So what we'll do is we'll where the fire is, and because this hose is There's no way he's gonna be So he's now tapping to show him where to direct the flow of the nozzle, so that we can put out the fire. (men shouting) - So it's nonverbal communication? - It's non verbal communication, right. And so we test that to make sure that everybody knows what those signals are, and that they can anticipate what that is. (men shouting) And now you hear the so they would inform the and then control now knows, and now we can commence So things we have to think about now are, I need to overhaul the fire and make sure there's that are gonna cause it to re-flash. I also need to get the smoke so the man in charge would He's gonna inform control that, &quot;Hey, we need to ventilate, so we can get all that (indistinct) - I said, that's awesome. That's a wow. So this is, this is a self contained - Correct. Those bottles are rated for 45 minutes. - Are they flowing right now? - Yes, that's the air that they're using, forced air to isolate - And so he's looking - Correct. So it's just a thermal imagery, he can even show you the screen. You want to show him the screen? - Secure from Code red, fire main secure. - All right, so he's- It's a really good image. - Yep, so what we'll do there is, there's multiple modes, when we're testing this during drill days, we'll heat up like a small bottle of water and we'll hide it, say up in the overhead, so we can make sure that guys are actually doing a thorough search. And once they find that, if they'd call that away. They would simulate and then they would go on about their day. - So they got those, where where they located normally, when they have to go get this gear on? I mean this is- - So we have gear staged up forward, and we also have some staged back aft, so that if the fire was to go back aft, we have some gear on If it's a forward and then we we can put that on. - Is it always the same person - So based on the watch wheel, yes. It's always the off-going, this watch station will man the NFTI, this watch station will be - Awesome, thank you very much. - Yep. - I appreciate it. - You guys are good. - Thanks, guys. So was that actually pressurized? - Yes. - Yeah, so can I feel that? Good grief. That's amazing. How'd they do? - They did great. - They did good? They did great? Yeah. - Yeah, so what's your measure of success? - For this, it's if they get and then if the initial in about 30 seconds, and then like senior chief said, if the full hose team But the big thing that securing the power right away and getting that initial Like I said, in a submarine before it quickly fills with - So it's... So fire is the biggest deal, and so that's why you guys - All the time. - Okay, that's awesome. - Usually once a watch, We call them code reds- - What is a watch? Forgive me for not knowing that. - We split the day into So an entire watch team of guys running the engine There's all these watch they're the ones driving the They do it for eight hours, and then a whole other team and they do it for eight hours, then a whole other team comes So like senior said, with fires, have certain responsibilities. So, if you're the you leave sonar and run and fight a fire. If you're the auxiliary (indistinct) aft, which means you're in charge in the engine room there's a fire, you leave your watch station And then if you're the off-going guy, like you just got off watch in the last eight hours, like these guys, then you have certain responsibilities. If you're the off-going like Chief Beinholtz, if he's asleep and he hears fire, he wakes up and he puts - Wow, that's intense. It's a big deal, thanks So to summarize, so the first thing is, first thing is get to the the first fire extinguisher on it. - Yep, calling it away and that everybody else If you were to, if somebody's tripping over the words and they're too excited, then they could call it or somebody responds to the wrong area, or they secure power to the wrong thing. - Got it, okay. And second thing is what? - Is applying that agent, so getting an agent on the fire and then getting a continuous So your CO2 lasts for so long. Getting somebody else to show up and supplement you with an and then don breathing protection. So that's what they'll do, you've still got one that's good, they don their breathing protection, and now they're good to go. - I saw everybody did this, they said, &quot;I relieve you.&quot; - Yep. - What's the deal there? - So again, you think about you can't really simulate that very well in the drill environment, but we have to force them into So they're not going to they just have to turn over and what the status of that fire is, and then they will tap them And then the other guy knows and the fire's not going - Somebody owns that fire at all time. - Correct. - Got it. So when you say, &quot;I relieve you,&quot; that's saying, &quot;I now have - Correct. - Got it. That's legit, man. - Yep. - Thank you very much. - That was awesome. How long did it take you to get this on? - So typically, we're able in about three to four minutes, especially if you're experienced, and we practice so much. So it's really key to get so that way, we can stay in the heat, where other people in would get pushed back. - Really? And you just have the gear - They're all staged in lockers. These are hanging up, But basically yep, we rip these off, and then all the guys back because they know the importance of us getting back on time - All right. Can I just say that you're So how often do you hit your head? - All the time. (laughs) - Do you seriously? - Yeah. - Okay, I'm sorry man. - Yep, it happens. I'm not the tallest one, but it happens. - Yeah, that's great. Yeah, it was pretty intense it was like an overbearing Thanks man, appreciate it. Yep. - This episode of Smarter Every Day is sponsored by Raycon earbuds. They are these little Bluetooth earbuds that work seamlessly with your phone. You see the little magnets that just, pop them back in position? They're fantastic, you and then the earbuds, you see those little contacts right there? They charge inside the little pill. So basically, you've got on these things and I This particular model was and this sounds just as My trick is match the BPM of the music to the stride when you run. Here we go. (rock music) That's what a 5K looks like with Raycons. There's a button on the outside. You can tap it to pause, you can also pull one out of your ear if you're passing old ladies with dogs and wanna say nice things. (laughs) If you wanna get some you can do that by going That gets you 15% off the order. You're gonna dig them. They're priced right. They put up with my sweat. I do good to finish a I'm a 10 minute mile kind of guy. Yeah, you're gonna dig some Raycons. Big thanks to everyone buyraycon.com/smarter Oh yeah, you can try and if you don't like them, That's pretty cool of them. Anyway, a lot more cool Please feel free to subscribe. That's what you call it when you click the button thing, right? I can't think, I'm tired. (chuckles) I'm Destin, getting Smarter Every Day, please enjoy the rest that's coming up. Have a good one, bye. Oh, shower time. So earlier, I was making fun - Yep. - 6'2&quot;, 6'3&quot;. - And you're 6'7&quot;? - I am, yeah, 6'7&quot;. - And you did this on purpose? - Yeah. - Yeah? - Yeah. - You just- - Yeah? - It's not that bad? - Forget about it, yeah. - (laughs) That's amazing, man. I thought in the Navy, if