Hi, I'm Michael. This is Lessons from the Screenplay. When we go to see a horror film, we usually The common tropes and cliches have been so well-documented they're even referenced in horror films themselves. "You should never say 'who's there?'" "Don't you watch scary movies? It's a death wish." But the horror films that stick with us are often the ones that provide a unique twist on the characters' perspective of the horror. Like a slasher film told through the eyes Or a monster film following "truck drivers where escape is nearly impossible and no one Or a found footage film, told through the And with each of these different perspectives Get Out follows in this tradition, providing But in this case, it's not some exotic setting It's simply that the protagonist is black. Taking inspiration from the 1967 classic, in which a white woman takes her black fiance "...one of the reasons that film, I think in its discussion with race is that it started Take the race out of it, everybody can relate to the fear of meeting So, at some point I had a revelation that Beginning with a situation that is universal ensures that an audience comes into a story with a certain amount of personal experience and empathy. But, it's the specifics of the characters that make a story interesting. And what impresses me most about "Get Out" is how Jordan Peele uses the specifics of the protagonist to unlock new storytelling techniques. So today I want to look at the film's unique To see how it takes advantage of its premise And examine the way it creates a feeling of Let's take a look at "Get Out." Most horror films are built on tension. The characters are put into a situation where and we know it's only a matter of time before But in "Get Out," the dangerous situation it's a weekend in the country with rich CHRIS: "You said I'm the first black guy ROSE: "Yeah, so what?" CHRIS: "Yeah, so this is uncharted territory CHRIS: "I don't want to get chased off There have been plenty of films where a suburban but rarely is it ever the source. So as Chris and Rose arrive at her parents the audience is already unsure of what to Our biggest worry is that Chris might actually But we quickly see that won't be the case-- "You call me Dean and you hug me, my man!" --as rather than make Rose's parents obviously Jordan Peele decides to build tension in a "By the way, I would have voted for Obama "Best president in my lifetime, hands down." While they're clearly trying to be welcoming, the parents do have moments that are a bit--as "So how long has been going on?" "This thang." Nothing major and with no clear malice intended, "Cause with your frame and your genetic if you really pushed your body, you'd be However, as we see more moments of the family "Oh." Woman: "Not bad!" --tension continues to build. "Jeremy." In this way, real-life racial tensions are making the unease we feel more layered and "There he is!" But in many ways, the more overtly disturbing are the few black people Chris does encounter. When he reaches out to try to make a connection the interactions are off-putting. "She is lovely isn't she?" "Rose?" "Yeah, she is." "One of a kind; top of the line. A real doggone keeper." "Right." Some are particularly unsettling. "Oh, no, no, no, no no no no no no." "Aren't you something?" This method of building tension is effective we've never seen it used in a horror film "Get out." And it's unlocked simply because of the But this is not the only technique made available Throughout the script, Jordan Peele utilizes Chris's fear going into the weekend is that Rose's parents will react negatively to their relationship, operating from a place of ignorance. But once he gets there, he instead sees there are moments where they're he may have. "Come on, I get it." "White family; black servants. It's a total cliche." "I wasn't going to take it there." "Well, you didn't have to, believe me." This awareness assuages some of Chris's and makes us feel like maybe we can trust The same technique is used during the party After interacting with a number of guests "I do know Tiger." --he encounters Jim, the art dealer-- JIM: "Ignorance..." --who seems to actually be aware of people's "They mean well but they have no idea what Once again, this makes us feel like we can As Jordan Peele says... "He is an apparent ally to Chris." "He understands that people focusing on "there's an ignorance to them." And when we see that this trust has been misplaced, it makes the reveal during auction scene that But the best example of using awareness to is with the Rose character. Originally, Jordan Peele was going to tell that she was involved in the family's plot. But then, as he says: "And at some I realized, wait a second-- If you could pull some Keyser Soze shit, why would you not pull some Keyser Soze shit? So at that point it's like--okay! We're going to take this up one notch, if I can do the impossible and I can hide literally bringing him into harm's way--if then I'll have a really great revelation." When we meet Chris and Rose, it's immediately But the thing that really helps us trust--or is how much she empathizes with Chris's Throughout the film Rose is acutely aware including her family, are treating Chris differently. The scene where this is conveyed most explicitly is after the awkward dinner their first night "What is his problem?" "He has never treated any of my boyfriends "Ever, ever, ever." "Mmm hmm." "Oh my god, and them my dad with the 'my "'My man! My man!'" "I don't think he's ever heard that, Jordan Peele says of this scene: "I was sort of adding this idea of Rose's the fact that she's more turnt-up about The audience I think subconsciously presumes she wouldn't be whilin out like this. Chris has to bring her back down to earth. So I think she wins our trust in this scene Once again, this is a storytelling mechanism because of the specificity of the protagonist But taking it a step further, because this a black protagonist in a horror film who ends set on stealing the bodies of African Americans-- there are even meta-level elements at play "I knew in my heart that anybody who is would have to think: 'there's no way Universal Studios would allow the one good white person in this film There's no way they would do that!'" But they did. "You know I can't give you the keys, right And the result is a twisted reveal about the that underscores her psychopathic nature. "You were one of my favorites." In this final act of the film, when it seems we might find ourselves wishing there was to come save our protagonist. But here Jordan Peele subverts a horror trope A cabin in the woods, outer space, a secluded all great ways to make sure your characters "The nearest house is across the lake." "It's total privacy." But part of what makes a character feel isolated is knowing that there is no one around to Such is the case for Chris, as there is no not even the last hope of most characters "I am two seconds away from calling the During the sequence toward the beginning of when Chris and Rose are driving to her parents They call the police, who respond to the situation. But the focus soon changes from the deer to Officer: "Sir, can I see your license please?" Rose: "Wait, why?" "Yeah, I have state I.D." "No, no, no. He wasn't driving." "I didn't ask who was driving, I asked We see that the mere presence of Chris in This suggests that if local law enforcement it's probably not going to go Chris's way. So as the story progresses and Chris's situation instead of wanting the police to come help-- "I'm calling the police!" (phone rings) --there are moments when we realize their would be the last thing we want to happen. So of course it does, at the worst possible As Chris, covered in blood, kneels over a "Siren lights flash on the side of their "The scene doesn't look good." "Chris turns towards them raising his hands." "Rose smiles again and pleads with the approaching Rose: "Help me!" Without a word being spoken, we know the implications Which is what makes the reveal of Rod so cathartic. "Chris!" Once again, the specificity of the protagonist as the film subverts a horror trope and provides "I mean, I told you not to go into that Good films are able to find fresh ways of surprising us, while simultaneously giving And as old storytelling techniques become the stories we tell and the ways we tell them Over the last few years, it's become clear that audiences are eager Get Out brings a new perspective to a classic It demonstrates the value in mining the unique for new ways of telling a story. And reveals that the struggles of a specific as we can all empathize with a situation where When researching and writing these videos, I try to find ways to be efficient with my so if I find myself stuck in LA traffic, I love being able to listen to Audible. Audiobooks are a great way to turn idle time into a productive time where you can learn And what I love about Audible is that they For example, they have "Story" by Robert which is definitely a book I recommend you It talks about a lot of great fundamentals, and I've used it in several of my And when you start a 30-day trial with Audible, your first audiobook is free. So if you go to Audible.com/lfts, or text "lfts" to 500-500, you can download the audiobook for "Story" Once again that's Audible.com/lfts, or text Thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video. Hey guys, I hope you enjoyed the video! I just redid my Patreon page with a new video for So head over to my Patreon page to watch that, and if you feel like supporting the channel I also want a take a moment to thank Jeff for letting me use audio from his podcast, The Q&amp;A with Jeff Goldsmith. He's done a ton of great interviews with and he has a digital magazine called backstory, which you can check out at backstory.net. Both of them are great resources for screenwriters, and you should definitely check them out. Thank you for watching, and I will see you next time.