He's on time. I'd better start my sermon, keep singing. We could sing it all day another hand of praise for his faithfulness today. eFam around the world, we bless you well and blessed and prospering, in I speak the blessing of almighty your house, and your endeavors. If you're in end of the semester. I just pray that God of a teaching called Ghost Writer. I'm so Do you see how there's something blowing on those That's the Holy Spirit who is blowing on the story chapter where there will be faith and challenges, where there will be uncertainty, but there will This series was inspired to me just reading club. I asked them for permission to invite and the book of Acts. That's what we're doing you are if you are physically able. I want the lesson. Maybe, just maybe, you so incredible today that you'll In Acts, chapter 1... I thought we would be in Acts, chapter 1, last week, but the Lord chapter 1, we see the disciples... Have a movie and tried to ask somebody &quot;Shut up. You're annoying. You should have That's kind of how the people who come &quot;Get on to the next one. If they didn't nice. Okay? Let's catch the whole class the Holy Ghost and how a lot of times when wants to write the story of their life, a memoir The ghostwriter will take the events that happened page. Now, I think we need somebody in our lives through, some of the tests we're going through, period of time between what we're believing for this is the situation for the disciples. Jesus has risen from the grave. He's going sent the Holy Spirit to us to live in but they are waiting in a space of 10 days for to do something about Judas who betrayed to replace him before they can go forward with &quot;'For,' said Peter, 'it is written in the let there be no one to dwell in it,&quot; leadership.&quot; Therefore it is necessary to us the whole time the Lord Jesus was living the time when Jesus was taken up from us.'&quot; Imagine the Savior was walking with you, turn-by-turn navigation, and suddenly AT&amp;T network shut down a couple of and we all thought the rapture was next, and my sense of direction is so poor I don't even my GPS. I wasn't worried about text messages Well, Jesus was the GPS of the disciples, and &quot;We've got to move forward even though to us.&quot; That's a difficult place to be, this. He said (verse 22), &quot;We've got to take and they must become a witness &quot;So they nominated two men: Joseph and Matthias. Then they prayed...&quot; Very change the world and you're a fisherman, 'Lord, you know everyone's heart. Show us over this apostolic ministry, which So, Jesus left to go where he belongs, the where he belongs, not the right hand of the and the lot fell to Matthias; so he Just two verses from chapter 2, and then &quot;When the day of Pentecost came, they were like the blowing of a violent wind came from were sitting.&quot; Now, last week I talked about and God is the page turner. This week, I want to talk to you about the Plot Hole. That doesn't Father, help me to do it. In Jesus' name, amen. Plot Hole. Are you familiar with the term plot (I don't know if this screen is helpful. the screen the last few weeks just to give be more distracting than the visual is helpful. of a serial killer is a challenge.) Hold on. &quot;Well, I've heard of a plot twist,&quot; I'm kind of building on this theme of story. story. The story you tell to yourself determines tell yourself about why your dad didn't stay go on to be the dad you never had. The story you in this area might determine whether you Or maybe to know, &quot;I'm not even supposed to be whether you give up and just sit on the sidelines since the disciples have the most important story the life, the death, the resurrection, and the and the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, the With every story, you need something to happen. plot twist. One of my friends wanted to buy We're not going to make a movie about that. to buy a car. He buys the car, only it's You know, there's a bomb underneath it or That's a plot twist. A plot twist is an but intentional. That's a plot twist. (I think podcast and don't see me writing on the board, be really annoying.) I just wrote the words plot twist that probably everybody would That's a plot twist. Spoiler alert if That's a plot twist. It's where the person you just didn't know. Those are fun. Plot twists it. A plot hole is a different thing. A plot hole but instead of being unexpected and intentional, &quot;Wait a minute. That doesn't make sense, and I Have you ever been watching a show, and something that main character totally would you know, a chemistry teacher starting to make That's interesting and intentional. That's they called it Breaking Bad. They told That's a plot twist. A plot hole is different. A plot hole now. It's Daniel-san in The Karate Kid. face, but earlier in the movie The Karate Kid, we how did he win the tournament if The answer is somebody just screwed up. Somebody the whole thing through. That's called a plot beat up, paints fences, waxes cars, and then he was supposed to get disqualified for kicking by the way. We talk about deep things all the time My favorite plot hole of all time is from the TV Friday Night Lights named Buddy Garrity who the episodes of Friday Night Lights, Buddy Buddy Garrity's daughter, takes her car... owns a car dealership, and he's a Lyla is so mad at her dad Buddy Garrity she drives and the episode ends. Next episode, the window get grounded. They're completely fine. We were &quot;Wait a minute. Did we miss an episode? Did In that particular instance, our family loved it the Garrity named after Buddy and Lyla Garrity. like the equivalent of driving a car through never happened. You can call a Furtick family though. Everybody in the family has to If everybody agrees to give you a Garrity, we Many Garritys have been given in our family, even a subworld to this world. There's a lot to when the family can talk about it, but not around parenting class once all of my kids are 50 years Now, let me bring this all together, and in it when I finish with it. A plot hole is the rules of the world that have been created. It twist is it doesn't make sense right now, In Acts, chapter 1, we are in the midst of where death became defeated and where the who is greater than the violence of has overthrown everything that stands For the disciples, though, what now is clearly felt like a plot hole, because they didn't know even though he told them he would. Would Would you believe your boss if he said that? Neither did they really. They were shocked by jewelry we wear to remember the plot twist... enemies of God, but God... That's a plot demonstrated his own love for us in this: while We shout about that, but they couldn't, it doesn't feel like a twist; it feels like a know how it ends. I'm speaking to somebody right now, not knowing how this will make &quot;He just walked out on me. He did not explain that.&quot; To be in that kind of moment in your sucralose to say to you in those moments, God's got your back,&quot; because while it may When you're living in it, it doesn't feel like yet. Who am I preaching to today? Added to of watching the innocent one be treated because we understand that we were He was an innocent one treated as a criminal. To them it was the end. To them the yet what they saw as the end of the mission from wonder if that could be true of some of the things These apostles, who are waiting for the Holy Spirit. You don't have to do that. He already and neither is the Spirit that he said This is what's really crazy about it. a plot hole when something happens that's when something happens that you completely All right. Let me show you how little sense this situation today. In Acts, chapter 1, that I if you don't trust the author of this story, stop reading the Bible. It says, &quot;'For,' said If you've been reading your Bible up don't mean to bring up his lowest moment. When we have seen Peter cussing while Christ who was cussing while Christ was being crucified, is quoting not only the Bible but the most That's almost a plot hole, that somebody Psalms the next moment. But won't God do it? are singing really beautiful songs in church if you are still quoting &quot;The Lord is good.&quot; That's a plot hole right there...Christians who start acting like saints. You can &quot;'For it is written in the I was like, &quot;Oh! If the one who was then there is hope for everybody I'm going watching this in prison. I don't care don't care if you're trying to reach powerful grace of almighty God can twist That's what I'm talking about. That's who I'm who I can be cussing one minute and preaching the Your kids might shock you yet. Your kid might might end up doing a TED talk that people who are This is a twist. From cussing to quoting. to the oil of gladness and joy. It's the but sometimes the truth will twist you. left the earth to send the precious Holy &quot;After you have turned back...&quot; He hadn't even comeback before the fall even occurred. How you feel about your failure? Now you ought to because God saw your failure from the We have to go quicker than this, the same passage I preached last week. you'll really understand the heart of it for the I was thinking about several categories. not only when somebody drives the car through It's not only the event; it's when the individual like this in the text. That could well and then hit a setback. You were one business trip... That could mean treated people with kindness received You really should have known better, and he gave nothing but good and received grace for evil. But even though it's easy isn't it so hard to see that in the story of you? &quot;I'm not Jesus, so it's not easy for me to You're living in a twist, but it feels like but it feels like the ending. Every new end. (I think that was a song from the 90s. I'm but it felt anointed when I said &quot;It's closing time...&quot; That's what it is. I Watch this. He said two Scriptures from the book want you to understand that. Sometimes I have to back to David, and he quotes something David David is talking about someone who took over and David says, &quot;May his place be deserted; In other words, he's saying, &quot;Get the wrong people do that in your life? I don't want the wrong best want the wrong confidants. I don't want the wrong people away from me whom God is trying to send &quot;I'm waiting for the Holy Spirit. I am a the moment of his crucifixion.&quot; But he starts Watch. Not just one Scripture. Look at the leadership.&quot; They're talking about Judas, but talking about something totally different. This On the surface, it kind of looks like the old preacher story about the guy who so he said, &quot;All right, Lord. I'm and the first thing it lands on, I'm So he flipped his Bible open and pointed, &quot;Judas went and hanged himself.&quot; He said, &quot;O one.&quot; He did it again, and it said, &quot;Go thou and time.&quot; &quot;Whatever thou doest, do it quickly.&quot; So It seems like Peter is just this one psalm says, 'May his place be deserted; let there be no one to dwell in it,' and 'Let no, no. This is a very systematic student you're These psalms were actually known as psalms Jesus Christ. So, not only were they pointing situation too. I need you to know that God has now&quot; situation. &quot;And may another take &quot;Lord, I need you to not only How many need God to move some clutter some wrong thoughts, some wrong paradigms, some things that are keeping you bound and been through, and you need a change &quot;Take all of that away,&quot; but he's also &quot;Let another take his place of leadership.&quot; Put about to happen on the day of Pentecost. God in. What they need is not human resources. pleasant time about it. What they need is Stop revising the way you wish it would have they need is the power of the Holy Spirit. Say Holy Spirit. What I need is the presence of I felt God on that one. I need the plan of interesting in your life. It is amazing that spend a few minutes on this word necessary. life what is necessary...where it is necessary for me to put my money, where it is necessary for me I don't just mean that people are Show me who I'm supposed to help. (Y'all to be a blessing to. Show me how to convert of experience so that somebody else I need to know what's necessary. My twist. The Holy Spirit is coming. We rushing wind. We know the twist. and they all hear it in their own languages, But remember, before the gospel filled the say it again. Before the gospel could fill mission can go forward, I need God to with your wisdom. Fill me, Lord, with your you've heard of the sinner's prayer before. Or maybe you've been through recovery and grant me the serenity to accept the things I I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.&quot; you today. Those are beautiful. I cannot add I want to teach you a prayer called the makes no sense. I'm going to give this to is you use this sucker. You're like, &quot;But the Bible. I'm about to show you... It's It's when Peter is trying to figure out what to next? Okay. Then you need this prayer. It's him. Are you in a season of life that is new to be old. I'm going to show you two things. I'll They nominate two men, and they know for a fact what to do next. They're probably smart enough they had been given the choice, and that didn't &quot;Lord, you know everyone's heart. Show Now, the essence of the prayer is &quot;God, help me have a path for me, that you have a plot that you have a calling on my life, that you gave me your Spirit for an assignment, So, believing that you have given me an writing a story that is unfolding with time Peter prayed. Lord, you know...show people. When you don't know why it happened, know what would possess somebody to act like &quot;Lord, you know...show us.&quot; Now, whatever you need &quot;Lord, you know everyone's heart.&quot; By the way, were just hanging out. That's why I've been to show my kids something in the Bible, and here's that,&quot; and I start writing I saw this in the Bible, and I thought about the hole you're in, and I thought about the feel behind it. I thought about the thing the thing that can't make sense. I figured you know...show us.&quot; Whatever needs to go in Whatever is in this blank... Oh, now. I wish you could see it like I see it. &quot;Lord, you know everyone's heart. Show us.&quot; you know how long it's going to take. &quot;Lord, you know who is supposed to go so show me who to pick up along the way would still be here right now.&quot; &quot;Lord, you next few years.&quot; You could even start praying [0:38:00] centuries before he needed it. He did not wait again, and I asked the question, &quot;How did Peter know? How do I know what's necessary at this point It's because he knew what was written. The more The more I know about what he spoke, the more you come up on a situation. You come up on a so you don't stop and die at the Red Sea. You and you say to yourself, &quot;Self, I praise. I don't have a staff, but I've got a but I've got a calculator, and zero plus &quot;I know something. I know enough Scripture people will say, &quot;Well, that's what they even have the Holy Spirit at this point. So, when you get in your Bible, you'd better Devil. I don't even need this Scripture on my door...Boom! I'm going to hit you with that because I remember what I read when I didn't Beyonce. Put a ribbon in it. Not a ring on it...put God gave you for manna, put a ribbon in it. So, the next time the Enemy starts &quot;There is therefore now no condemnation. I read sermon is for me today. Nobody left me. I'm doing You'd better remember I was up here telling &quot;I'm not really in a plot hole. I make the calamity that comes with living a You're going to need this plot hole prayer they still act a little crazy. It only takes Then you'd better pray, &quot;Lord, you know. Show us.&quot; you, and then after they explained it you felt had that piece of information? I was mad at this I was speaking to his supervisor, and frustration. Let me fill you in a little.&quot; and he hadn't even told his whole distracted at work. Do you think I listened different lens? All because somebody What do you do when your story hits a plot got this plot hole, and I need something to the Enemy will. Are you going to let him will fill in details that aren't real. He will you because you had a bad temper, because One of the biggest revelations I ever had I'll just share this with you in case it people who look like they're getting the So, where I used to think, &quot;Oh, that person looks hungry. It changed everything. Now, that's they're going through; show me. You know; fill me Book Club. This is Holly's favorite author. She &quot;All of them,&quot; but I think she has written about When she got her on the Book Club, wanted to talk to Kristin Hannah. and Holly did such a great job. I &quot;I would talk to you for hours,&quot; because Holly is and talking. She has a real gift for that. That's They talked about the book and what spoilers and all that. Everybody listened What did you do?&quot; Then at the very end... This &quot;So, do...&quot; Let's say the characters &quot;So, do Jim and Nancy get together in the end?&quot; Kristin Hannah said, &quot;Oh, yeah. Absolutely. but because it was in the author. See, some people get scared. &quot;Are you Maybe. I sure will. I will talk but that's not really what I wanted to talk to A UFC fight can give you goose bumps. me what he knows that I don't. It's a very you know.&quot; If you would reinstate that core much with your stress. See, from his perspective The cross was always where Jesus was one to preach on the day of Pentecost. Even when Holly asked Kristin Hannah, &quot;Do it because she was in a unique position. I came to tell you today, my brothers and Matthew and Bartholomew... I came to announce to for you. You do have a Savior who died for you, who defeated death and held the keys of death, he's seated in heavenly places beside the Father, But you also have an audience with you can get in the presence of God and say, &quot;Lord, you know. You &quot;You know the plans you have for me, plans to give me hope and a future. You not only to be written in the book that time will reveal do you keep taking opinions from the crowd Why do you keep living in the shadow of a critic's author? Why do you keep staying up worrying about last week there's going to be a sequel, and in the back of the book... I spoke to the author, and I've got a feeling. I've got more than Because they prayed the prayer, you know&quot; prayer. Watch this. They didn't even says they cast lots. That's like rolling dice. a Magic 8 Ball. (Y'all don't know nothin'.) Yet didn't even get the right process, but they You keep thinking, &quot;Oh, I've got to do to do it exactly right. &quot;Oh, I made the with it? God has already chosen. God is the wrong disciple, Paul was on Let's not just splash around on Sunday morning. life when you don't know how it's going to be, you don't feel the empathy inside of you. Pray, verse 1, the Bible says they were all together. I'm waiting for something from God. Well, when and look at what the Lord did. Verse of a violent wind...&quot; It sounds like When you hear wind, that sounds like trouble, Something is blowing through your life right now. things rearranging, pages flying plot hole. No, no, no. It's a twist. It's the blowing of a violent And what did the Spirit do? Read the words whole... Come get me, mama! Come get me like because I hear God saying, &quot;I'm about to of your life is going to be the best of your Lord who knows the end from the beginning. church! Fill the whole earth! And the Fill it with your glory, Lord! Every So, this story is not ending in death. Peter said, already knows.&quot; Now, I need you to get it firm He knows what you're crying about. He knows what's behind what you're crying happened last week that's really about what show me.&quot; &quot;Show me what's really going on needs.&quot; &quot;Show me what's really going on with my &quot;Show me what I'm supposed to be doing with the youth I had.&quot; &quot;Show me what I'm supposed to I don't have the experience I need.&quot; &quot;Lord, &quot;Let me fill you in.&quot; He filled the whole house. He said they have to be because the resurrection of Jesus is the you go to that empty grave, you'll see a where purpose came from. We might even was conspiring and plotting to wipe Jesus out, I learned the most important thing about a going to fill it with fear or are you going it with junk or are you going to fill it with what comes forth from it. And suddenly... the drown will end everything can change of a sudden get ready and he will come when you all of a sudden that's the Holy Spirit filling you won't see wind and you won't see rain Tri will feel prophesy for your neighbor prophesy for your strength all of a sudden I feel it coming all of going to come all of a sudden the whole house it's whole it's going to come on the everything works going to come all there will be glory it's going together open your mouth open your I'll feel it I'll feel it I'll it bless your people thank you for showing Hallelujah hey thank you for watching the that way you can know when we go live and post new what spoke to you today where you're watching you'd like to support the ministry financially continue you reaching people around the world for