Hey everyone, in my last video on James Tour, conducts his research. And today we will see more one to blow the whistle on his fraudulence. But we so let's see what he's been up to, shall we? our debate where I brought up systems chemistry. molecules interact to create new functions and field for origin of life research is that we can and evolving according to the resources available chemical systems and biological systems. I've and it really pisses off creationists, because molecules can have slowly formed the first living James does nothing but pretend it doesn't exist, in the field. In the debate, I brought up the work ribozymes, and he just said "nuh uh", thereby Do you agree that this research shows replicators No! No! Fully replicating. 20-fold amplification. and they duplicate this much of it. Even if they could... NO NO NO! HEEHAW! apparently doesn't like data that proves him 20-fold amplification is physically impossible replication, but we will return to this chemistry hot garbage whenever pressed about this field, What is this systems chemistry, and why do origin of life? It's a smokescreen. You have and systems chemistry makes it much harder say you have to understand systems chemistry. is. I think James hopes that if he hides systems chemistry will just disappear and he wants to program his followers to exhibit the same of this field, since it's probably the single most a strong enough defense mechanism for James, so for his latest shenanigans, he than him, a creationist named Rob Stadler. first video on James, because this guy tried to but now that he's back in the mix, let's go ahead Here's the first one from 2020. Must watch! should be good. But wait, who is this Stadler guy, so he has zero qualifications in this area. one on origin of life, and one on evolution. referring to his science denial and blind faith, For the one on origin of life, given that Rob he had to recruit a coauthor to help with the a disgraced former molecular biologist. She used but she was fired for low productivity, as low citation count. Additionally, a good chunk in a creationist propaganda journal called states that its purpose is to highlight research a biblical framework". Her firing likely given that on Rate My Professor almost all of she teaches creationism during lectures. What a The trick is, and the trouble is, that when Dave views cloud his capacity to interpret research on is that only atheists are qualified to No, genius. I am not saying that only atheists religious scientists who do not allow their Furthermore, you don't have to be an atheist to of life. Plenty of people believe in god and am saying that James specifically lies about this start with this persecution complex because it's James does nothing but lie about this field, which years, and he does so because of his religion. In order to be an atheist, in order to be a explanation for the origin of life. know what lightning is. Or volcanoes. Or people believed these were all deities. Some of those things are. You don't have to If our judgement was truly clouded by our belief, disproportionately in favor of Christians over we would not be dominating in that area. scientists can be religious. They just don't use They didn't win accolades for proving god which has nothing to do with god. could create life from non-life, we would have no experiments were consistent with those of the 'cause I really liked that in your book, so... certainly would be encouraging, it would be very that that is relevant to what actually happened. of life researchers do. They aren't as a primary goal. They're examining how self-replicate under certain conditions, thereby which will never be even remotely comprehensible never lift a finger to learn any science. That's right, already at this simple level, we are Ok, hold it there. So Dave is making a claim there RNA molecules, are able to self-replicate. He said because the fact is that no one has ever seen Twenty minutes in, he finally tries to actually mentioned self-replicating ribozymes, and claims what James also says, no matter how many papers I apologists preach to their congregation, they literature that proves them wrong, they have to either fraudulent or irrelevant. The title is that's just a desperate attempt to invalidate an with it. I've discussed a number of these via ligation, and more recently nearly fully refer to my conversation with James Attwater from for a summary of precisely this research, Undergoing self-replication with have it. It's done. But when you actually very charitable definition of self-replication. to in some way address the experiments that have he jumps to whining about how this RNA So in the yellow you see a string of That is a molecule there that was designed by a sort of artificial selection process, a with human intellect pulling out the winning because it has the property we're going to by no means something that you could find in a No shit, Sherlock. That's not what the not prebiotic synthesis. Apologists pretend that diatomic molecules and lightning to a living Even looking at just the chirality of molecule. If you took all the mass of the universe you still wouldn't be able to find one it's that rare, that hard to come by. properties of certain RNA molecules, and nothing he sounds like an idiot. When he whines about he sounds like an idiot. This is research acknowledging the validity of this research, and how the ribozyme is joining two halves So when the yellow molecule brings the green very eager to bond, and it creates a bond between you have a copy of the yellow. So that is Of course that's why he is pretending no other recent work where autocatalysis occurs via the Wright brothers prototype and saying how carry hundreds of people across the country. from individual amino acids. And Dave it to kind of make it sound easy. But you when they join together into a polypeptide, and only the alpha peptide bond is what we find it creates, it kicks out a if this reaction happens in water, it's going to You are likely starting to see how Rob graduated Remember when James whined about how you can then I showed him dozens of examples of aqueous pretended I didn't for over a year and wrote approach here. He goes on to bring up one paper, paper that demonstrates prebiotic peptide of apologists, especially when they whine about Each ribonucleotide in RNA has four chiral means there are 16 possible chiral forms for every to propose how a natural process could select out Because if you have a solution with all 16 forms never find each other, will never bond to each The probability is just completely against you. complain about homochirality, what they are saying particular configuration polymerized, therefore by one. This is the god of the gaps. They be missing. Like thermodynamic reasons that or kinetic reasons why certain forms would or crystallization processes that would result god wished them together with magic, so they deny that conclusion. That's the bias. In reality, I've which was from Donna Blackmond. Here's another as the key chiral building block for sugars explanations involve some of the stuff regarding it's complicated and really not worth explaining of literature exist addressing these concepts. Rob none of it and then writes books pretending to We know through directly observed genetic experiment of Richard Lenski, and many others will over time simplify themselves to be So what I'm saying is that the single-celled and they've been doing that as long as life has look at the simple life that we have found living gonna get. It can't get simpler. It's tried. contains 468 genes and about 580,000 base pairs And that is a very simple living organism. in the entire video. This is like pretending that can possibly exist, because if you take away the apart. What about this hut made of twigs? No simple as it gets. That's totally idiotic. It's and the acquisition of novel metabolic processes be lost given the lack of certain stimuli, like he the billions of years of evolution of prokaryotic watching them die, and saying: See! All life existed before hearts did, but things with hearts Here's another analogy. When examining ecology, rich network of interdependence. There is total plants, fungi, animals, and microorganisms. If you could collapse. So how did it get that way? The is today, right? No. Ecosystems respond to the slowly shifting inputs, and interdependence can of time allow for a gradual response that produces like deleting an entire population of organisms, stripping away components of the ecosystem or that this specific ecosystem wasn't at extant life can't be arbitrarily made more simple, about genes when the first protocell didn't have Common sense has no place in of the feasibilty of biological processes. no place in science, or in an assessment of the we should at least give Dave credit for practicing your common sense, suppress your thinking, your That's what he wants. And we wrap this video up with Rob making a he has no clue how science works. He doesn't like think science should be common sense. Anyone who not guide scientific inquiry. Science is often whatsoever about chemistry that is common sense. laws through empiricism, which are completely and forged our common sense. What goes up must come undergo cycloaddition reactions is not common orthogonal oscillating fields is not common sense. common sense. That heredity is determined by sense. That the human body can attack itself That the Earth goes around the sun instead of the subjective experience, is not common sense. Pretty the 12th century is common sense. It is arrived be no better demonstration that Rob is profoundly So as you can see, he needed over an hour to and he fumbled all of them. Now that you're aware let's watch Rob and James make fools of It's rare that somebody will come on my podcast with me. I've asked many many experts to Yeah, and astronomers typically don't go on flat It's kind of pointless. After that he whines about same garbage we saw in the last video. I was hurting people's ears. But the only way I wouldn't interject. Well Jim says I'm a lousy He again pretends it was a debate when it wasn't, he again pretends he was told not to speak during slander Lee after literally calling his research desperate to shake off the severe humiliation some tired old claims about the chemistry. polypeptides at all! What he made was a barrage average was like a 12-mer or 14-mer, tiny little doing other synthetic techniques using prebiotic there, it had to have had branching. He said evidence that he had any linear ones in there. for the hundredth time how peptides can form in papers I've shown him, and just lies about them, reactive side chains and his ultra-specific DK everything I've said about how this is a straw specific linkage had to be present for life to Powner paper that shows peptide bond formation which even the dishonest duo over on the Christian that's James Tour for you. He sets his own idiotic understand this field don't take him seriously. self-replicating peptides. Yes, it's not just if an amide bond is formed with the terminal the peptide that forms loses much of its there is an automatic selection mechanism for to the origin of pre-biological selection, NONSENSE and GARBAGE, because reasons. Here's yet shows peptide self-replication approaching author specifies that the efficiency is very close don't look for this stuff because they don't want it no matter how many times I show it to them. life. Ever. They don't know to move toward what target they're going toward. But they More of Jim's favorite mantra. Molecules never, but not the god of the gaps, somehow! Well James, increasing complexity, and systems that more with no guidance other than differing replication describe this. How does that happen, Jimbo? Care pushing the brainless molecules around? a self-conflicted message coming from you. reaction chemistry fights against a path that what we've learned already is telling us that it the presentation you said, this is like two when, not if, but when someday we do figure I'm glad you asked me this. challenge. James always says that molecules never designer and is exactly what Rob wants to hear. On disingenuously, that eventually we may find out Isn't this a clear contradiction? You'd better As scientists, we cannot say what we will never be say of thermodynamics. So for example, based a perpetual motion machine. Something that has law that says life cannot form based on a we will never be able to do it? I can't say that. that we're going to have to make before that will to be discovered before we can ever see molecules entirely consistent, we're nowhere close, the faster than we are moving toward it, because Since he is in good creationist company, and it's creationism all the way. But Rob keeps Then we learned enough to be confident and say, cannot possibly have a perpetual motion 100 years of science and learning about natural possible that will lead us to say, we know enough started a living thing. Can we ever get to that? if we can derive laws that able to solve that thing, boy I'll buy into it. proves that natural mechanisms alone can't These two idiots who call themselves scientists and we are just around the corner from it! Popper to say that abiogenesis has no element of To me if they're doing real science, then they're working on to be something that could be what kind of evidence, hypothetically, what that could convince you that life could not have any hypothetical evidence out there that you would have started on its own. And if they can't answer evidence that could convince them of that, that the evidence, the evidence is irrelevant. even know what science is. The basic postulate universal laws that we can discover and use to means is not a theory, it is the postulate itself. life, RNA world, metabolism first, those are the scientific theory has to be falsifiable, at least not. Science is methodologically materialistic, otherwise science would collapse. Rob is basis of science, totally incapable of seeing Of course James is in the same boat, so he plays as though we will somehow figure out how even though we've gone over piles of research thermodynamics. Besides, we have actually it's James never shutting up about this topic And what the community has to now do, is pull the textbooks. From the 8th grade all the way through nobody can give us an example of how molecules then taking on life. The primordial soup model has We have no idea yet how this could have happened. the primordial soup, which again is just a phrase arising from molecules in water before we had any If we were to describe this model with modern chemistry. We will come back to this a bit later, be in books, so he is saying it is impossible for of the gaps he pretends he doesn't worship. And I of him whining about the target "moving farther other favorite irrelevant buzzwords. is that RNA is very unstable. As I talked about which is a very short RNA by the way, a 600-mer, about four hours in water, generously, four a chemical or prebiotic chemistry perspective. a 600-mer polynucleotide would have a four hour else? He made it up. Here's some real science on nucleotide strand has a half life of ten years. If and replicating RNA would indeed spend most of dissociation is the slow step of the process. make it even more stable. Sorry James, you have has to have 600 nucleotides to provide catalytic lower limit to this ability. molecule with 188 nucleotides. self-replicating ribozyme with 188 units. Just the paper he didn't understand, and claims the field has failed. We will point out his many Here's an amazing paper from Gerald Joyce and Jack so it's more comprehensive than mere replicators, we already know, one of the prime candidates for structures, and nonenzymatic template-directed the subject of many studies, as it is widely emergence of replicating informational systems at when a functional strand of RNA is fed enough can arise due to simple base pairing. So U will biology. At the end of this process the strands further replication can take place, whereby the original strand, and so forth. This happens on its lower specificity than what we see in biological behavior which is very likely involved with the nothing but point out issues with efficiency and than they are, which they achieve by lying. energy of GC is relatively low, so many of the are referred to as "wobble pairs". Forming one elongation of the strand, resulting in low yield, full-length strand. When we look at Joyce's work, after one hour using his new polymerase, 98% of the strands are shorter than full length, more time, they will simply contain one all full length copies even if not faithful And in living things, we know that the to replicate its own DNA it makes a mistake one world record of sloppiest replication in the What they have produced is one mistake out of a living thing needs to survive, ok? comparing them to modern cells, which have very compare everything to modern cells because that's always comes back to this dishonest comparison. question would be: what length of RNA is required polymerization such that the strand is selected Joyce and Szostak, a 25 nucleotide strand could an error rate of around 2% is tolerated, so for longer strands, with a 100-mer there can around half a percent. The perfection of modern rates at the origin of life were likely crucial And there's more. As a solution to finding they've suggested that early RNA may have is ubiquitous in nature and plays a big role thiouracil has a stronger pairing energy with error rates around 1-2% have been achieved. solution that has been proposed that dishonest pole. But despite their willful ignorance, we are prebiotically plausible sustained replication, and times James shouts as much. Now with all of that So 188 nucleotides is quite complex for a that randomly producing itself in a prebiotic one specific atom somewhere in the universe. whining about the probability of that specific principles the research demonstrates, which Even if they had this in 100% yield, then Wow, good thing that James the super genius we are talking about systems of Nobody has solved the mass transfer problem. So with. So say I go to the laboratory, and I start that's 2.2 pounds of material. I take it on a but now I've run out of material, because this is the problem that Rob was talking about, and I bring it on. The yield of that next reaction so you take your kilogram and multiply it multiply it again times 0.01, and so you run out we go back and we start making more, now using doesn't have that advantage because nature never of material, it's over, it's done. There's no Again with the mass transfer problem, which is to everyone that he can only understand chemistry material and make one modification at a time until need to start again. News flash, that's not how mixtures and carries out thousands of reactions with each other and influence the rates and doesn't run out of material because of some Non-replicating polymeric structures are degraded, network to amplify what is successfully example of how someone like James, who pretends does not understand this field. This isn't James doesn't need a "lab notebook". Get a new script. be able to take the small molecules and polymerize the polypeptides, the polysaccharides, the James truly has no shame. All of this has and he just continues to pretend it doesn't been made by prebiotic means dozens of different These compounds, they say well there's been because as soon as you make one of these, as soon if it's a 600-mer, four hours to survive. so easy to disprove it's ridiculous. Apart from testing for the presence of mRNA strands injected are still present weeks after the injection, trying to degrade it. RNA does not degrade And then there's the whole protein folding have the right sequence of amino acids, now fold up into a three-dimensional structure. just 100 units long, it would take 10^95 possible there's not enough time in our universe. So trillion trillion trillion universes of time. paradox! They're saying that if proteins had to it would take them longer than the age of the But they do fold smoothly and quickly all god is sitting there folding them all by hand! Hey by the amino acid sequence and the maximization folding patterns are not equally stable, not will fold in such a way so as to make as many bringing the system to the lowest energy possible. structures. The so-called paradox is actually and in which order to arrive at such a fast Here's an analogy. Let's say you're rolling 100 to the 100th power, which is around 10 to the 77. is like one protein folding pattern. If you roll the same outcome twice in a trillion years. So now put magnets in one face of every single die, Now you'll get the same singular outcome every what? It's electromagnetism that's responsible in energy is the way the protein will fold, just the metal surface is the lowest energy for the this simple thermodynamic concept, let alone the Nobody's explained a similar problem, which is line up, this is called the Levinthal 2.0 paradox. alignment is 10^79 billion. Remember 10^40 number of elemental particles in the universe. James says complex molecular ensembles, involving are so improbable that they could never arise proteins fold into a particular shape, proteins which do not require any design, and indeed of several proteins is easy and is done protein structure. College freshmen know this. take a cell, and we can pull it apart. We can or if we can even have the higher order all the polysaccharides, all the polynucleotides, put each component in separate bottles. And give not under a rock, but in your laboratory, could other words can you put these components back into This is another one of the dumbest things times before. Of course we can't assemble a cell Nature never did that either. The first living of evolving systems of molecules. This is just Meyer and the humpty-dumpty problem. right? You've got all of these pieces, but all And here's Rob insisting that nature It seems that nature is telling us that through step after step that you went through. about systems dissipating free energy and the of the second law of thermodynamics. And Jesus when three people were discussing where James pretends nobody was discussing Thermodynamics actually favors this. Because that's the theory we're all taught, and not thermodynamics, which says simply that chemical species, you're sufficiently far from the universe that we know, and you continue to is inevitable that ever-more complicated regimes and it's been verified at the simple chemical simply do that, set up that experiment. Just wait long enough, because we started... you know, favors metastable states. Not the but metastable states that have a differing Nothing less, ultimately. And the same is true And it goes way back before the cell ever became. asleep during every lecture and then complains Anyway, wrapping up this video, prompted by Rob, He's going after the textbook manufacturers! This model has come out not by you current day from the Babylonians. And out of that primordial that primordial soup, and their gods came out of model, that's thousands of years old, it's about this thing. And this is what everybody is taught out of the textbooks, and I think they should Yes. and everything that we've tried it hasn't worked, number one, number two, we have never been able not even a single bacterium. Nowhere close it just like that! And let students go away problem that maybe we want to work on. But stop chapters and compress it to one paragraph, that's Yes, James is whining about the Babylonians comment about his Hebrew mythology getting lots of science out of textbooks and put in some religion model, which just says that a mixture of molecules replaced with "we are clueless". Can you imagine chapters on evolutionary biology? It's just a Let's keep going until the textbook is the Bible! the mouth of such a lying fraud. 70 years of which again, is what primordial soup would really phrase a hundred years ago could have known what because James says so! James is clueless, so smartest boy in class! Allow James to remind he has no clue what primordial soup even means. just prebiotic soup, it could be a hydrothermal Yes, smelly pond. smelly pond? He thinks smelly pond is different pond model? Go ahead and explain that to me, and while we're at it, what is the primordial soup even though I humiliated you in the debate the board and played with chalk? They talk about the primordial soup model in This is the primordial soup model. It just means Look, you were absolutely clueless the coupling for that reaction. creatures is in textbooks? Show me the textbook. form into slithering creatures. that the molecules come together, these form Molecules form higher organisms that come out of I don't have the textbook, there they are, the We're all still waiting for you to show us any pretending they say, James. Can you really take a one word? I tried to show you what these textbook read one. Do you care to try and compress this you'd have to actually learn about it first, This is why I will never stop exposing and These bozos are really serious about this. They from their wealthy Christian nationalist donors, just like they went to court and tried to put their money and resources and political influence in clear violation of the separation of church society and bring us back to the dark I can throw at James that will ever amount to Well thank you so much, and let me just people coming forward. It's because of what the non-conformists. You take on something like this Poor baby! He's been blacklisted! No, you are and wants nothing to do with you. I've been ostracized by not just the origin much broader than that. I go into meetings they'll get hushed, you know I go into You did this to yourself. And everyone so you're financially obligated to lie for it until someone stops you by force. we're gonna put up here the quote from Lee Cronin tongue in cheek. On his original tweet Lee Cronin he said origin of life research was a scam. He Remember when I bet that James would keep using misrepresenting him right to his face? What did And I clarified that with Jim a number of times, point at which I have to just get a cease making stuff up, I am going to basically Man, wouldn't that be funny if Lee sued him? I this. Anyway, that's about it for this video. about RNA replication, and they basically didn't into failure for the whole field, and ignores just like every creationist has always done and the field as being very limited, and also because entire video is just James spewing his greatest Luckily, with all the attention James say regardless. Remember when we heard from the one who showed us that James is the king Well guess what? Another one of Jim's former Andrew's initiative, and he reached out to me more pathetic than the ones Andrew told. Want Wow, that was pretty rough. But hey, do you want from a researcher who works in Jim's bread and want to remain anonymous since James is such a email. They tell me about a paper James published surprise, it's garbage! There is essentially spectral analysis shows it's really just are no more than what can be found in a pencil graphite. They go on to explain what they think insignificant it is. And look at that, this one further reports in prestigious journals for one Flash graphene changing the world. again! If you insist that this one researcher the cat has gotten out of the bag elsewhere too, Reddit or YouTube, there are plenty of people about and agree that it's total bullshit, and bullshit. Some of these comments go into great Just another demonstration of what a fraud James which makes his h-index and citation Anyway, after hearing from both Andrew and in Jim's primary field of nanomaterials, a James really is. Take all of the disgusting looking at multiple accounts of how James lies name on the work of his sweatshop of graduate or even entirely separate and unrelated relentlessly slathering his own work with hype other sordid tactics. You have to wonder, how expose even more of Jim's resume as fraudulent? gives James the boot? And to think, all of this he wishes he had never gone down this path. of life community, would you change anything? even do it. I'm not sure that it was worth it. Not only do you keep up your pathetic apologetics, textbook publishing. As though you aren't despised you really need even more negative attention Is this what you want? I'll keep exposing you. Not just debunking your Rob Stadler. I'll keep broadcasting people of shady scientific practices until the even your brainwashed flock. Of course if you quit funding, since barely anyone else will touch between a rock and a hard place! That must be past two. Remember when I told you several years You have a choice. You can be a scientist, Take my advice, drop out of science, you're not a scientist, you're a scammer. It's So that's it for this installment on James community. How much more humiliation can he himself to be exposed? We'll just have