"Large Americano." "Iced latte." "Cold brew. You're so fast." "This is Grand Central. People is in a hurry here." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Baristas are really important of coffee can change the It is a little after and we are in a very We are at Grand We are here to visit Arnaldo who serves Cafe Grumpy at Grand Central. There are very few interactions that feel so high a person who is about to in the morning, and I can't of the busiest transit country. Hey, Arnaldo. "Hey how are you?" I'm Priya. It's nice to meet you. "Welcome in." Thanks. I don't think I've ever been in the morning. "My name is Arnaldo I am a professional barista at and I've been doing So show me your "So back here, we have ice drinks. We put the cups, we This is the milk station where This is the rinser. Water. Soon as you finish the So you're like, basically just rush right now. "Yeah. Exactly. We set up everything, and --" Is it like the calm before "Yeah, before." "You know, when the storm you just get used to it." "You have six minutes Oh yeah. Here. You do you. Yeah, yeah. yeah." Do your thing. "Good morning." "How are you, man?" "Hi." [MUSIC PLAYING] "We're officially open. Yeah. So here you go. Your drip coffee. Do you want room for milk?" "No." "Here you go." "Thanks so much." "Have a great day." What time is it going to "8:00, 8:30 starts kicking in. Skim one shot, cortado. Enjoy." "Did you say skim or regular?" "You want it regular? It's all right. I got you right here." "I'm sorry. We have the shot." No, no. It's all good. There we go." "Oh, you're the best." "Have a good day." "Thanks, guys. "Yeah. See you." It's getting really busy. I was trying to intercept but that may not What is the hardest "Whole milk latte. Enjoy. The hardest part of my job the same all the time. All those numbers and have to be able to make One thing that really "Cold brew on the bar." -- you're doing the hard and you have to make Does that feel especially "I just take it as I'm just with people and doing It's that relationship that good." I know almost "Oh, we got you." This is a huge -- "I got you." -- blind spot. "So we make sure we So we put --" You have to have 19 exactly. "Yeah, in order to Yeah, yeah. yeah. So you've got to flatten it. "So we gotta make 90 degrees on our Wow. "And we make sure it's even. That will make sure that it falls as even as it can." There's just so "Oh, you got coffee, but we if it's right." Mmm. That's nice. "It's not bad." Smooth. "Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think it could be a See? Like now, it's hitting the which is not as good. I want to do it again --" O.K. "-- in order to get So this time, we got 36.7." O.K. Ooh. "Try it. This should be See? It's way better?" Yeah. This is way better. "It's more clean. Not as dry." "Where are you from?" "Puerto Rico." "In Puerto Rico, I lived I started college, and I for me. I started working. I got a job as a waiter. One of the waiters, he got When I discovered I wanted to be a barista. I was going to coffee and I would work from but that helped me I was there for two years. I became a manager, and I competed in latte art, What did you draw? "It was two wings You were working in and then Hurricane Maria hit. Can you talk about "Hurricane Maria. He messed up Puerto My trainer on the competition, told me that if some of the to New York and come and for that." What was your "He's super professional but he also takes I really appreciate what to the customer, all the the farms and everything." What do you think about the costs like $7 or $8 now? "Coming from Puerto Rico and it's a hustle. It's a lot of labor. Going to pick coffee, it's baristas. We have to see how hard it is. Having at least that it makes you be gentle with it." What drew you to come to "Specialty coffee in Puerto Coffee culture in Puerto I decided to do I'm going to do this This is what I like to do. And having this opportunity to enter into this high-level coffee scene. There you go. Yeah, enjoy." Not only did you but you came to one of the You came to Grand What was that transition like? "It was fun because It was five people So seeing that and working passionate about it "Frappe latte." "Thank you." [MUSIC PLAYING] Are you used to working It's just like, do "Yeah. So you get used to." This is tight. This is a small coffee shop. There's not a lot of "Right behind you. You're good." "Could I get a medium "Decaf macchiato." "Decaf vanilla Latte." "Oat latte." "Cold brew." "Cold brew, please." "Cold brew, please." "Iced Americano." "Short Americano." "Two cold brews." "Cortado." There's not a lot of And I have to I've seen them mess up "Put it right here." I'd be messing up I'm not a details person. You have to be a details "Iced Americano." What's it like having "We're usually or we're dancing and There's a lot of energy behind together." "I have a cold I'm very impressed with your interaction with your interactions You guys know how to move "Right behind you." "Having worked in there's a universal language. There's a universal way so you learn like, O.K. This doing. I know what I'm doing." "Right behind you." What do you think it "Iced oat latte, personal cup. It does take quite There's a lot of [CHATTER] [JAZZ MUSIC] The rush is so real. A train comes, and they This place is full. [JAZZ MUSIC] "Got it. Enjoy. Cold brew on the bar." "We had such a lovely "Oh, you got the right place." "We had to come back here." "That was yesterday, right?" "Yeah, yesterday. Yeah." "Nice." "Walking down, trying We couldn't get "Hot almond latte." "I work nearby, and I need morning." And you come here every day? "I come here What keeps you coming back? "Mostly, honestly, the staff. They're great." What do you think "This is his work, and He creates a beautiful morning, and that's why I always leave happy." I feel like I underestimated for people. "Don't do that. It's a bad look. I like to feel special and that's how Arnaldo I feel like he makes a lot What have you learned about "A lot of empathy. Cold brew on the bar. We have a key to make Enjoy. Have a good day. Hey, how are you doing? Hey, what's up? Long time, no see. I'm bouncing. O.K.? Go on break." Ready to go on break? "Let's go." You've been working. I haven't. But we're both going on break. This is lovely. "Yeah." This is just like "My wind down time, my Do you feel like there are have of your job? "A lot of people A lot of people think It's mostly look as a their college. You know?" Yeah. "Which takes out a little Most of the people that to coffee just love it. It's not a million dollars, but it's have a life, you know? People should dedicate Dedicate more as a job job for my college, or -- because it's a There are 30 minutes "Have a good day." I am really quite still smiling and laughing and "Thank you. How are you today?" "Go for it." Shall we get out of here? "Let's bounce." Do you consider yourself "Totally. Totally successful. Success is relative. We rate success with a corporate job. But I think success is when and in peace with yourself, doing. If you like it, [MUSIC PLAYING]