Madam, who are you? Where is my mother? Go to the underworld to find her. She has fallen into a trap and caught the murderer alive. You are the daughter of Luohe. What did you do to my mother? I want to see your mother, but it's a pity that she has gone to paradise. It was you who killed her. If I say that Luohe has peerless martial arts and the power to command one side , but she keeps talking about releasing slaves and Zhige, it is simply an idiot's dream. It was you who killed the river. Do you think the world will believe it ? Then I will take your life today . Today, you can't escape with your wings. If you catch her, why don't you hurry up and chase her? Young master, why bother? In troubled times, with your martial arts and status, we can join forces. You don't have to live in exile to dominate the world. But if you don't obey me, Yu Wenhao will kill you. Then I won't be polite. Wait 047 No. There are many people in this world . They are born knowing who they are, where they are going, and who they will be with for the rest of their lives. But I don't know. I don't know where is the way to survive in the bloody storm . I don't know where is the hometown among the swords, guns, and halberds. Because I don't remember. The past is even more unclear and the future is unclear. In the blur, there is always a voice calling Chu Qiao. Who is Chu Qiao? You must be strong and brave to live on. Who am I? My daughter , from now on, you will be called Jing Xiaoliu. Who am I ? You killed me. your mother If you catch her young master Xing'er, why don't you follow him and throw stones and be punished? The four leopard heads will get carried away and continue to practice . If they don't practice well, Xiaoqi and Xiaoba will never leave Qingshanyuan alive. Yue Qi opens the six leopard heads. Now you understand that you need to practice throwing stones very accurately. You will practice this for the next three hours . If you are not good at it , no one will punish you. These headless arrows are enough for you. It will hurt you for revenge . I have to endure it no matter what Can you pass the level? Do you think you can pass the level? This is the second level. Now open the eight leopard heads and the seventh month. Let her see. You should see it clearly now. If you pass the level smoothly, you can come out by ringing the doorbell. Otherwise, you will be fined three times. The one who can go back is indeed Yu Wenyue. Master , did you also go to the hunting ground that day? Today, I will teach you how to kill a person from a hundred steps away. This is a folding crossbow. It is easy to carry. It is light in weight and has a fast shooting speed. It can shoot six arrows in a row. You are invincible. This crossbow is given to you. It fires six arrows in a row. What should you do if you still can't defeat the enemy after firing six arrows in a row ? That means you have met a top master. Ice and Snow Arrow. Have you ever heard of the Ice and Snow Arrow weapon? Anyone can use it. The key is It depends on whether you can control the ice and snow arrows. The user's physical skills are very demanding. They are different from ordinary crossbow arrows. I will teach you bit by bit. The key point is to rely on the waist and abdomen. Do you understand the power ? Do you understand ? You yourself have escaped from the sea and the sea, and using love is better than nothing . You have entered the mountains and seas in your heart, but they have been overturned several times. Ice and snow arrows are made of ice. During the launch process, the arrow body melts. When it finally hits the target, only the tiniest part of the arrow remains, but it is extremely powerful. I have risked my life and betrayed my heart. As long as you understand where you will go this time. Report that the black crystal stone signal is found five miles away from the house. The spy must be saved. On the 13th, I am protecting the young master . Now, gather the people and follow me quickly. You guys will follow me. No. you do it here Why? I'm going to enter and exit the restricted area. Please take her into custody first. No , let go. Let me go quickly. What are you arresting me for? You fell into the trap. Please take care of your house. If there is any news, let's go and see. Stop . Xing'er, Xing'er, who sent you? Mr. Xing'er Are you okay? It's all because of Yue Qi's recklessness that the Qingshan Courtyard was defenseless. Young Master Seventh Brother passed away in the camp. Yue Thirteen investigated the Qingshan Courtyard. Nuo Be careful, Lord, are you seriously injured? The spies of Daliang are actually so skilled. Who are you? Someone give it to me. Tied Nono, are you okay? I'm okay. Master, where is the spy ? My child, please remember that the only thing you can rely on is yourself. If you fall, get up by yourself. If you want to cut off its flow, cut off its source first. This counts . Why doesn't it count? Master, didn't you say it's done? Can you pull the doorbell with eight leopard heads ? I've already done it. Master, what I asked you to practice is speed, not speed. Your little clever star has already got the knack. Now he can handle arrows flying from all directions. Master , it took me a whole day to develop such kung fu. one year The time is very good , and now I can be regarded as having a quick eye and a quick hand. I know it, but I don't know why. I know where I went wrong. Tomorrow I will continue to punish the young master. I will order three sticks of incense before I can rest. Is this considered the last test? I stood up clearly just now. It's good . The young master hit me with a jujube, so I fell off. The sword was not allowed to come down . With this skill, it's still far from what I can do. I know you can't become a climate. I'll show you once and show it to me. I have to hold on, hold on, it wo n't be a climate. It's impossible. Her progress is too fast. Why are you here again? The weather is so good. There is a unique scenery in Qingshan Court. I don't want to miss it . The punishment for you is still too young. Young Master Xing'er doesn't understand why you are Do you really understand why He always punishes me ? Because you are my maid. The punishment is to reduce the shaking when carrying water and make tea. The punishment is to jump in order to make your body agile and beautiful. The punishment is to fly stones to train you to have quick hands and eyes. So stupid so as not to be remembered by others all the time Xing'er understands, I understand. Young master is thoughtful and considerate to Xing'er and has good intentions . Of course he really means it . And its advantages and disadvantages should be selected according to different combat situations. Choose the most appropriate weapon. If the weapon is not used properly, it will not be able to exert its original power . Master , if you don't have weapons in some special situations, how should you subdue the enemy? Who told you that you must use weapons to kill ? It depends on whether you have the share. adaptable You are very capable . Now I am going to teach you some skills that you must master when delivering letters. Come with me and you will see what is written on it. The spy's secret letter must be specially processed , otherwise the information will be leaked to this other person. The bottle is Shadowless Powder. These two bottles of potion will give you Of course it will be used later. Thank you . Sir, I wonder what Yue Qi is. My lord , you summoned Yue Qi so urgently. I wonder what your orders were for rounding up the spies of Daliang. Why did you fail to do so ? Yu Wenzhuo was so incompetent that Yu Wenzhuo is still alive in the world. This is my trick of pretending to be dead and hiding . In order to hide it from the eyes of the world, It doesn't mean that I have given up on the matter of the spy paper and Tianyan. I can never take my future actions lightly again. Yue Qi understands what Lord Wang forgives Yue'er's next plan. On the one hand, the young master ordered the whole city to search for the whereabouts of the spy in Daliang. On the other hand, he made arrangements. The best hidden room of spy paper eyes I secretly monitor Yu Wenhuai, hoping to use this clue to find evidence that he colluded with the Daliang spy. As soon as there is news, I will let Xing'er be a spy in Daliang as planned . After this mission is over, I will send her to Daliang to be a spy . Regardless of the lord, wouldn't it cost Xing'er's life? Yue'er The purpose of training her is to make her a sharp blade that kills enemies at critical moments. Bold asshole slave, do you know who I am? Do you know who I am? Come and kill her. From now on , we will take care of each other and never be separated. This is what you owe me, Xiang. My sister's fifth brother is happier watching Xiaoliu eating than eating it himself. The most delicious thing I have ever eaten in my life is this piece of braised pork. This is what you owe me, brother Linxi, and all the innocent women you have harmed. Yuwen Xi , go to hell. If God doesn't accept you , I will accept you. Help, help, help me. It's Xing'er Yu Wenxi from Qingshanyuan, this old guy who is inhumane and inhumane . It is Mr. Yue who is causing harm to innocent girls. Mr. Yue sent me to kill him. No matter how the boss of Hongshan Court tortures you , you are not allowed to say that Mr. Yue will come to save you. Do you know? I understand what the old man said . It was Mr. Yue who sent Xing. I killed the old man, Master Yue, and the crown prince asked us to Waiting for him here, he went to find Miss Xing'er alone. Why hasn't she come back? Don't worry. With the skills and wisdom of the Crown Prince, even if something happens, I believe they can handle it. Miss Xing'er is so stubborn. Will she come back with the Crown Prince ? What's more, it's the prince who sacrifices his life to save others . The prince is back, let's go . The prince, the prince, the prince, the prince , the prince. You are all strong men in Yanbei . Thanks to everyone who sacrificed their lives to escort me, Yanpao, I was able to get here. The strong man walks, and I, Yanpao, also walk. The strong man kills the enemy . I, Yanpao, will take the lead and wait for us to return to Yanbei. Just drink it for three days and three nights At this time, there is no time to rest. The pursuers behind us are pressing forward step by step. Wait for us to arrive at the border of Yanbei as soon as possible . Then we can find a place to rest. Everyone, please insist on rectifying the situation on the spot . Miss Sanxing'er, don't you know that just now our prince felt that you were in danger? Regardless of the pursuers behind me, I had to look back You 've worried us for a while. How is Miss Yu doing now ? Don't worry, everything is fine . We haven't found any enemies yet. I still have some concerns. You two go five miles ahead to explore and remove the roadblocks. We will meet you later. As the crown prince of Nuoyan , you are considered The prince is also very impulsive. Do you have a dog's nose? You can actually find me where I am. I am a dog. I can smell where you are . You are not sure if I am in danger, so you just rush into the soldiers. What should I do if I fall in? How can I cut myself in? Let's talk about it . Is this your attitude towards the savior? I didn't let you save me. I treated my kindness like a donkey's liver and lungs. I risked my life to save you, but I can't get a thank you from you. Okay, I thank you, I thank you, thank you , thank you. Is that enough? Thank you. Ah, be careful, are you okay? I'll distract their attention. Yan Xun, come up and step on your beloved girl with me. Come to Yanpao Gongzi's kitchen.