- Now, if you take out your message notes inside your program, this weekend I want us on God's amazing promises. Over 7,000 of them in scripture. And I specifically this that you may not think it's until I explain it, and that is God's promises to you when you're afraid of failing. When you're afraid of failing. Now, you may not think that but we don't always realize So I wanna begin with a little quiz. We're not always self-aware about the fears that are inside of us. So let me read you nine tests of do you have a fear of failure. Number one. Do you ever worry about what That's the fear of failure. Do you ever worry about your ability to go after a dream or a but you thought maybe, &quot;I don't know if I can do that or not, &quot;I dream of doing it but That's the fear of failure. Do you ever worry that people Maybe people who are close Maybe, do you ever worry you're smart or competent? I've gotta hide, I don't that I really don't think I'm that smart. Do you ever worry about whose opinion you value? Have you ever told anybody beforehand that you don't expect in order to lower their expectations? That's the fear of failure. Do you ever get last-minute headaches, stomach aches, or other physical symptoms while preparing for something That's the fear of failure. Do you ever get distracted by things that prevent you from which were not as urgent You get distracted. Number nine, do you tend to procrastinate and run out of time when you The fear of failure is These are nine common symptoms No matter how successful you there are others that and you fail at. In fact, you fail in than you succeed, all of us do. Nobody can be good at everything. And so you're only good, So that means most of the things in life, you're not good at, you're a failure at. And we often don't want and that anxiety causes Now, the fear of failure It will keep you from becoming all God intends for you to be. It will limit your purpose in life. The fear of failure is deathly. It will kill your dreams, if you let it. It will rob your happiness. It will prevent your success. It can keep you single The fear of failure. I can give you a 100 negative things that the fear of failure And so what I wanna do today is talk about God's promises Now, this is so important, Jesus told a whole story It's called the &quot;Parable of the Talents.&quot; Now, we actually get our Today, when I say the word like a musical talent, or a mechanical talent, But we actually get the word talent from this story in the Bible, but in the Bible days the word talent was actually a measurement of gold. Specifically a talent of equal to the weight of So we're talking about an One talent would easily be A talent of gold is an not just now but in those days too. And Jesus tells this story to represent how we're Let me read you the story. It's right here in Matthew chapter 25. Jesus told this story. &quot;A business owner was going &quot;so he called his three servants together &quot;and he entrusted his wealth to them. &quot;To one servant he gave That's a lot of money, &quot;To another he gave two talents of money, &quot;and to a third servant he That's still a million bucks. &quot;And he did this each &quot;And then he, the master, &quot;The servant who was &quot;went at once and used his money &quot;to gain back five more talents.&quot; In other words, he doubled his money. He made 100% on his investment. Pretty good, pretty good investment. He had five, now he's got 10. &quot;In the same way, the servant &quot;who was given, entrusted two talents &quot;put his talents of money to Again, he gets 100% return on &quot;But the servant who had been &quot;did nothing, he did nothing. &quot;He went out and he dug &quot;and he buried his master's &quot;After a long time, &quot;the master of those &quot;and he asked each &quot;of what they had done with the money &quot;they had been entrusted with. &quot;The man who had received five talents &quot;brought the other five that &quot;'Master,' he said, 'you &quot;'and see I've gained &quot;His master replied, 'Well done. &quot;'Well done, you good &quot;'You have been faithful with a few things &quot;'so now I'm gonna put you in charge &quot;'of many greater things.'&quot; Now, you know this is a parable and Jesus is talking and he's asking you when you &quot;What did you do with what I gave you?&quot; My job as your spiritual is to prepare you for &quot;What did you do with what I gave you, &quot;what I entrusted you, what I loaned you, &quot;the talent that I loaned to you?&quot; And he said, &quot;I've doubled it.&quot; And he said, &quot;Well done, &quot;You've been faithful with a few things, &quot;now I'm gonna put you in charge of more. &quot;A greater responsibility. &quot;Come and share your master's happiness.&quot; That's what I want God to say &quot;Then the man who had received &quot;'Master,' he said, 'you &quot;'and I've gained for you two more.' &quot;And his master said, 'Well done to you, &quot;'good and faithful servant. &quot;'You also have been &quot;'so now I'll put you in &quot;'Come and share your The last part of the story if you're taking notes. &quot;But the servant who had been &quot;said, 'I was afraid I'd lose it.'&quot; If you're taking notes, circle on your outline the word afraid, 'cause this is the fear of failure. He said, &quot;I was afraid &quot;So I hid your talent, the In other words, nothing He played it safe. &quot;I went out and I buried Some of you have buried the and you're not using 'em. You're not using God's &quot;I went out and I buried it in the ground, &quot;and now I'm handing it back to you.&quot; Now, what's the master's reaction? &quot;That made the master mad and he said, &quot;'You lazy and wicked servant. &quot;'You should have at &quot;'where it would gain some interest. &quot;'You didn't even put in the bank, &quot;'you just hid it in the ground.' &quot;He said, 'But you did nothing Okay, everybody look My greatest fear in life would be that you stand before God &quot;You did nothing with what I gave you. &quot;You did nothing with &quot;You just used it on yourself. &quot;You didn't make a &quot;you didn't make the world a better place, &quot;you didn't serve anybody &quot;You did nothing with what I gave you.&quot; It is my responsibility to make sure that doesn't happen to you, and it is your responsibility to make sure that doesn't He says, &quot;You did nothing So the master, this is God, says, &quot;I'm taking back the one talent I gave you &quot;and I'm gonna give it to the man &quot;who multiplied the 10 &quot;To those who use well what I give them, &quot;they will be given even more.&quot; This is a principle of the universe that God has established. Whatever you use well in life, If you use your time well, If you use your money well, If you use your energy well, If you use the talent he will give you more talent. On the other hand, if you Talent that sits on the shelf rots. It wastes, it goes away, and you lose it. And God says, &quot;I'm gonna &quot;who's using the 10 talents This is a principle of the universe. And so you've got to get &quot;I was afraid and I hid it in the ground.&quot; This is a pretty harsh He says, &quot;You're lazy, you're wicked. &quot;And I'm gonna take away what &quot;and give it to somebody else &quot;'cause you're not using what I gave you &quot;for the way I intended it.&quot; Here's the point of the story. You never please God by playing it safe. You never please God by playing it safe. Now follow me on the logic of this. If you don't take any risks in life, you don't need any faith. And if you don't have any faith, then at that point you Let me say it again. If you're not taking for the benefit of other you're not taking any risks, then you don't need any faith. And if you don't have any faith, then at that point you And God says, &quot;That's wicked. &quot;It's not just lazy, &quot;I made you to make a &quot;not just live for yourself.&quot; So you can see how important it really is for us to get rid of the so we're not hiding our How do I that? Well, the Bible has a A ton to say about it. What I wanna do today is just and we're gonna look at four four truths to remember, and then four action steps to take on how to reduce the fear This is a good week for Take out a pencil and write these down because I don't want you ending your life and having God say to you, &quot;You did nothing with what I gave you. &quot;You didn't use it the So what God gives you is his What you do with your talents So, how can I neutralize the Well, first, there are four Write these down, number one. First thing to remember is that everybody fails in many ways. That's a fear reducer when I everybody, every single fails in many, many different ways. The failure rate of human beings is 100%. No one is perfect, we are all flawed. If there was a club for (congregation laughs) We're all qualified the If at first you don't If at first you don't If at first you don't succeed, Everybody fails in many ways. Now here's what the Bible says. James chapter three verse two. &quot;We all stumble in many ways.&quot; How many of you have ever stumbled? Can I see your hands? All right, that's a 100%. How many of you have ever stumbled in public in front of other people? Could I see that? Has anybody ever stumbled at a graduation, you're walking across stage All right, a few of you, God bless you. (congregation laughs) Any of you ever stumbled at your wedding? Anybody stumbled at their wedding? A couple people here, all right. Now, what happens when they're walking across stage and they fall flat on their face? We (grunts), we wince. We all sympathize when 'Cause we've all done it, and we all know how humiliating to stumble publicly in Everybody stumbles, we've and so we identify with them. Ecclesiastics chapter &quot;There is no one on earth &quot;who always does what &quot;and never makes a mistake.&quot; We all stumble. You know, in baseball, if you only strike out you're a superstar. That means if you're batting 300, which means when you go to bat seven out of 10 times you strike out, you're the guy who gets paid $300 million. Why? Because even superstars strike out more than they get on base. If you're in the NBA, if you make 50% of your You're a superstar. That means you miss 1/2 the time. And that makes you the best 'cause you only miss 1/2 the time. So the Bible tells us that So welcome to the club, We overstress the importance of failure. Failure's not a big deal. Everybody fails every day Number two, remember no failure No failure is final unless I give up. Now, failure is not fatal, It's not terminal, it's not deadly. Failure is not fatal unless you choose to I'm not even gonna try. And that's your fault. The fact is the fear of failure is far worse in your life than failure. Failure is not a big deal. But the fear of failure it's worse than failure. You fearing failure is worst Because failure is a one-time shot but fear of failure just It haunts you for hours and days and weeks and months and even years. The fear of failure can Failure is short term. Fear of failure is long term. And when you have the fear of failure, then you don't even try, so you might as well go and do it. (congregation laughs) Did you follow the logic of that? Okay. If you fear it, you're not even gonna try, which means you're gonna fail, it was a self-fulfilling prophecy. Now, here's one of my Proverbs 24 verse 16. &quot;For even though a righteous &quot;he rises again.&quot; Now, what I like about this is it says even good guys stumble. Even righteous people fall, He's saying righteous people fall and they don't just fall What makes a righteous people, righteous? They get back up. They don't stay down. This is the quality of resilience. Bouncebackability. And he's saying if you wanna if you wanna be a righteous man of God, one of the things you which means you're gonna A righteous man, he stumbles seven times, he still gets back up. It's the unrighteous &quot;I tried once, it See, there are a lot that are beyond your control but if you get back up again, I did a study this week of famous failures who kept I could give you about but let me just give you a few, 'cause history books are filled who failed and failed but would not give up, and then they succeeded. Here are few of 'em. General George Washington. You know, first president Lost 2/3 of all the battles in the American Revolution. I've studied the American Revolution and the first couple of years Washington lost almost He's backing up, he's retreating. He's retreating, he's 'cause he doesn't have the man But he would not give up. He lost two out of every three battles in the Revolutionary War. Lost more than he won. But he eventually won the war and became the first president How about Napoleon? Napoleon graduated 42nd in his class. A class of 43 people. (congregation laughs) Not exactly a brilliant guy, okay. But then he went on and How about Albert Einstein? You're not gonna believe this. But Albert Einstein he didn't say a single word, until he was over four years old. Any parent who has a child who doesn't say its first you think something's They're probably stunted in Einstein did so poorly in all of his teachers In fact, he failed at math. (congregation laughs) And he did so poorly in he failed to pass the entrance exam for the Swiss Polytechnique School. When he finally did get he struggled so much that And then he reinvented science and math. Babe Ruth hit 831 home runs in baseball but he struck out 1,330 times. For years, Babe Ruth led not just home runs. The Bible tells us no failure is final but a righteous man Look at this next verse Galatians 6:9. &quot;We must never get tired of doing good &quot;because if we don't &quot;we will get our harvest If you keep on going, you you never know what's gonna happen. Let me read you about this guy. At age seven, this man, this little boy, at age seven his family was and he had to go to work At seven years of age he went to work. At age nine, he's still a shy At age 22, he lost his He wanted to go to law school but his education wasn't good enough. Age 23, he went into debt to become a partner in a small store. Three years later his partner died, leaving him a huge debt At age 28, after dating a young he asked her to marry him and she said no. In his 30s he ran for A couple years later, he ran At 37 years of age, on his he's finally elected to Congress. But two years later, when he lost again and he had a At 41, in an unhappy marriage, At 42, he ran to be elected as At 45, he ran for the and he lost again. A few years later, he and he lost again. At 49 years of age, he ran And then at 51 he was elected president His name was Abraham Lincoln. (congregation murmurs) (congregation applauds) What if Lincoln had said, &quot;on the first time I ran for office&quot;? He lost eight or nine times before he finally was elected and saved the Union and You don't know what's in store for you. All of those past failures could be just prologue for your future. Failure is not the worst There's a lot worse things than failure. So don't exaggerate. Here's the third thing First, remember everybody Second, no failure is final Third, remember that failure if I'm humble and If I'm humble and failure is the path to success. Now, there is no other path to success except through failure. Failure is the door to success. It's how you become a success. Nobody just had success unless you just get lucky once and that's the last time It's something that you learn from. If you don't learn from your failures, well then that really is a failure. Proverbs 28 verse 13 &quot;A man who refuses to admit his mistakes &quot;will never be successful.&quot; Okay? You're not learning from 'em &quot;But if he confesses and forsakes them,&quot; in other words, you &quot;he gets another chance.&quot; There are some things in life you can't learn 'em any other way. So if there's some things you should stop calling it a failure and start calling it an education. Some of us are highly educated. (congregation laughs) We've had a lot of failures in our life but that's how we get our education. There are actually many, many You say, like what? Well, let me give you three or four. First thing is, failure And if you're gonna learn what works, then you have to fail to What was it that Thomas a 1,000 different elements that tungsten was the right element for the incandescent light bulb? And if he'd stopped at 999, But he goes, &quot;I know 999 It shows what doesn't work. Second thing it does is Nobody gets good at something How did you learn to ride a bicycle? Get on and never have a crash? Or a skateboard, never fall Or anything else. These all-start Olympic athletes who do amazing gymnastic feats and do in ice skating they're put in harnesses and maybe 10,000 times and do it wrong before they ever get it right. That's the only way you learn a skill, it's by doing it and over and over and then you get good at it. Most of you know that I didn't start as a preacher, I actually started in music ministry. I played guitar and had a garage band growing The only problem was (congregation laughs) And pretty quickly I figured out okay, I'm not wired for that. I like music but I'm not wired for it. And I quickly switched to speaking. And then people go, &quot;You know, &quot;It's like you're talking to me.&quot; Now, was I always that clear? Of course not. My first sermon sucked. (congregation laughs) I wanted to get up and apologize and say, &quot;Everybody go home, God's &quot;Let's just go home. &quot;Sorry, let's go get some ice cream.&quot; (congregation laughs) But the only way you the first time you do anything You're not good at anything the first time but you get better at it, whether it's cooking or anything else. You just get better. And the way you develop your You go, I'm not gonna do that again. And if you're learning from it then failure is always the if you keep trying. And if you analyze it you go, okay, what did I do If you don't analyze your life, if you don't look at your life and go, why did that project not work out? Why did that job opportunity not work out? Why did that interview not work out? If you don't analyze it then it was a failure. But I have learned, being now for almost 40 years, there is no such thing as They go together. We actually innovate out of our failures. Well, that didn't work. Here at Saddleback, we'll try We'll try something We'll try something We'll try something else. We try 99 things that don't Then we go out and teach a seminar and pretend like we (congregation laughs) Truth is, we're not that smart. We're just not afraid I tell my staff, I said, &quot;Everybody, &quot;I want everybody making a big failure &quot;every week in your ministry.&quot; 'Cause if you're not failing it means you're not trying anything new. You don't get fired from the for failing. You get fired for failing in which means you're not learning. So I said, &quot;Go out and fail &quot;Make it a really big. &quot;Not the one you did last week &quot;'cause that's dumb, that's older. &quot;You repeat that, you're not learning. &quot;But learn something You say, why do you want people failing? 'Cause I don't wanna take (congregation laughs) I wanna spread it around. I know I'm gonna make mistakes, And if I'm gonna fail I I want you making some of 'em. So I'm telling every member of our church, &quot;Go out and fail this week.&quot; Try something new you've And guess what, you'll but then learn from it and get better and get better and get better. That's how you do it. So I'm telling the whole church, I tell the staff this all the time, &quot;I want you to fail fast, (congregation laughs) Don't spend a lot of money doing it but fail fast, fail often, and fail cheap. That's how you innovate, that's how you'll learn. Benefits of a failure. It helps me develop my skills. You know what, it helps It helps you discover your true shape. I could've taken all kinds of tests and not known that I was good at teaching 'cause I'd never done it. There are things in your life and you don't even know 'Cause you've never done it. You've never done it. And so you gotta try a that's why we have Class 301. If you haven't taken Class Which is discovering It'll help you in your job searches. It'll help you get in the right career, not just the right ministry for your life, when you know what you're shaped to do. But the way you do it is just try. You go, well, that wasn't me. And I tried that, that wasn't me. So you just call it an It's not a failure. You know, Nathaniel Hawthorne was probably one of the greatest writers He wrote that book, &quot;The Scarlet Letter,&quot; and many other books you Great American writer. He failed as a customs clerk. He was fired from his job. And he came home totally and he says to his young wife, &quot;Honey, I am a total failure in life &quot;and I can't even support us. &quot;I just lost my job as a custom clerk. &quot;I mean, how bad was that? &quot;I'm nothing.&quot; And he just felt like a total failure. But his wife was brilliant and loving. And she took him by the and sat him down at the kitchen table and she put a piece of and got an ink well and &quot;Look, you've always wanted to write. &quot;Now you've got time to do it.&quot; And it's because of his wife that we have all of Nathaniel Somebody said, &quot;I believe in you. &quot;I believe you could do this.&quot; Who do you need to say that to? To your husband? To your wife? To a friend, to a child, to a parent? Somebody that you love? And they're all down because it just means they're Colonel Sanders was a total until at 84 years of age he figured out how to cook chicken under pressure. (congregation laughs) And that was finger-licking good. (congregation laughs) And now it's all known He didn't become a success You know, it's really funny. One time I was in Beijing, China, and they were doing a state dinner for me in People's Hall in Tiananmen Square. And in People's Hall is Mao's tomb and by law nothing's supposed in Tiananmen Square because it gives honor But if you stand at the southwest corner and look back at Mao's towering behind it is (congregation laughs) Because the largest Colonel is in Beijing, not in America. In fact, China has 8,000 KFCs, It's finger-licking good in China. (congregation laughs) I don't know why I shared that but I'll just throw it in there. (Rick laughs) I wonder if that will That's probably the only (congregation laughs) (laughs) But you discover and through trying all different things. But I think the greatest benefit actually of failure in your life is it just makes you a And it makes you a little bit And you're a whole lot less when you've had some hard knocks yourself. When you've gone through tough times then you're gonna cut 'cause you know what it's like. That's why I won't hire anybody on my team who hasn't either, A, had a or been through, B, major pain. 'Cause if you've never had or never had any major failure, when you're around people in pain your attitude is basically, It's very unsympathetic, it's very unkind, it's very uncompassionate. But when you've been through the ringer, you just have a little bit more grace. And when you've been shown grace by God, you're more gracious to other people. So, pride is put in the and failure can actually and restrain your pride. It promotes humility. I mean, if you had an unbroken string of successes in your life, you would be insufferable. Nobody would wanna be around you 'cause you'd think anything And that unbroken string of successes, you would be impossible to live with. Now, not only are we to but let me give you a little tip, we're to learn from the And if you learn from then you don't have to Have you heard this phrase, it's wise to learn from experience? Well, of course it is. If you don't learn from your experiences then your experiences are wasted. Of course it's wise to But it's wiser to learn of other people, why? 'Cause I don't have time to If you have to learn everything you're gonna die before you learn it all. But if you can read a and listen to the testimonies and you learn from everybody around you and you go, &quot;I don't wanna do that,&quot; you just not only save time but you save yourself a lot of pain. It's wiser and it's also easier to learn from the experiences of others. Which is one of the reasons There's not a single person in this book that they don't talk about along with the good parts. Which is why I know that 'cause it always tells And when it tells the good parts, it also tells the bad parts, why? 'Cause you can learn from both. Learn from both, look at the next verse. This is one reason God gave us the Bible. This verse says, &quot;These things,&quot; in other words, the things that happened to people in the Bible, &quot;These things are warnings in the Bible &quot;written down so that we &quot;They came before us &quot;but we are just as capable of Everybody say amen to that. - [Congregation] Amen. - Yeah, yeah, we're just as all the people did in the Bible. So, everybody fails, no failure's final, but failure's the pathway to success if you learn from it and if you're humble. Here's the fourth thing to remember. No matter what happens, God promises to use it No matter what happens, God promises to use it Now, this is not a promise It's only a promise to We're trying to live One of the most famous we're looking at promises in this series, is Romans 8:28. &quot;And we know that in all things,&quot; that means even my failures in life, even my sins in life, even my &quot;And we know that in all things &quot;God works for the good &quot;who've been called Now, again, this is not Everything is not working If you're running against God, everything's working for bad in your life. It's not working for good in your life. God is not obligated to work everything for good in your life if you're running the opposite direction. But if you're saying, God, and I want your purpose for my life, then even when I make dumb mistakes God says, &quot;I'm gonna use 'em for good.&quot; So if I'm business man and I love God and I'm trying to do the right thing and I get an idea for starting a business. And I go out and I start this business and a year or two later it God says, &quot;That's okay. &quot;I can still bring out the &quot;And I will.&quot; That is a dramatic fear lowerer. Because I know I can't lose, I can't lose. If I do something in faith and it works out great then it's successful. But if I do something in the way I thought it was I still can learn from it and God says, &quot;I will work it for good in your life.&quot; I can't lose. That means my fear of failure That even if it doesn't work, God will still use it for good. Look at the next verse. 2 Corinthians chapter seven verse 11. &quot;Look at all the ways &quot;has goaded you closer to God.&quot; Are you closer to God or when things are going great? When you're stressed out. People turn to God when they're in pain, when they're going through tough times. When things are going great It's when everything &quot;God, I need your help.&quot; I've seen more guys get serious about God when their wives said, &quot;I'm walking out.&quot; And they were totally oblivious to God until their wives said, &quot;I'm walking out.&quot; And now God has their attention. So he says, &quot;Look at all the &quot;has goaded you closer to God. &quot;You're more alive, you're more concerned, &quot;you're more sensitive, &quot;more passionate, more responsible. &quot;Looked at it from any angle, &quot;you've come out of this I love this message paraphrase It says, you see, while you're God's interested in what you're becoming. You're interested in your God is interested in your character. And God says, &quot;I'm much more interested &quot;in what's happening inside you. &quot;Are you becoming the &quot;Are you becoming the You're more interested God's more interested in your character. And he goes, &quot;Look, even the bad stuff &quot;that's happened in your &quot;I'll build character Today, I've got a couple One of them Kyle Cherrick. Would you give him a warm welcome? I want you to hear his story of dealing with the fear of failure. Give him a warm welcome. (congregation applauds) All right buddy. - Thanks Rick. - (sighs) Hey Saddleback family. From a young age, I was Growing up, my father planted the seeds for dreaming up newer, At a church camp in junior high I accepted Jesus as my Lord and Savior and dedicated my life to him. At the time, I knew that life and I knew I needed him And he actually gave me that I didn't know why. James 1:2 through four. It says, &quot;Consider it &quot;whenever you face trials of many kinds, &quot;because you know that &quot;develops perseverance. &quot;And perseverance must finish its work &quot;so that you may be mature and complete, &quot;not lacking anything.&quot; Okay Lord. I went to college specifically and began honing my skills at building early-stage companies. In 2007, I led a team for a solar energy project development. And after graduating I joined a startup here in Orange County based on that plan. When we arrived in OC, my wife Nebai and I were excited to learn that from Saddleback Church and we quickly jumped into and went through all four classes. Over the next three years, the solar startup I had joined grew into a successful business and we were eventually acquired by a larger publicly-traded competitor. Things were going great. I had a new role with I was doing everything I loved. But just a short year I distinctly remember and when it became clear I remember saying, &quot;If &quot;for this company, what am I gonna do?&quot; The company was considered and I'd taken on their brand as part of my personal identity. After being let go, I And I feared that I would be I wasn't sure I wanted to and so I pursued my interest and went through several rounds but was ultimately not My wife Nebai and I prayed for months for the Lord to open the Meanwhile, I began growing impatient. From there, I began to pursue Until I quickly realized a one-man operation So at this point I had no or what I wanted to do anymore, and that led to internal panic. Over the next few weeks, my and my behavior changed as my mind began racing My wife noticed and she voiced concern, but there was little I was stubbornly focused on as successful in my career and get back to building I felt completely inadequate. Despite my deteriorating mental state, I reached out to an old contact at a national solar and he invited me out for an interview. My wife strongly advised me not to go, but I pressed on despite her concerns. During that trip, I went and I ended up walking only 10 minutes in. The breakdown was so severe I to come back home. Fortunately, my brother where my parents and my to help me and help us a process that would last several months and began with me seeking guidance from our Saddleback pastors who advised me that I likely and they committed to walking with us through this difficult time. By God's grace we were able and began the path to treatment through both medicine and counseling. And it was during this process that I was finally able to let go of the control I wanted I needed to be open to whatever came next. The recovery I experienced was nothing short of a miracle from God. Our whole family prayed for my mind to be healed. My wife would later describe this time as not being able to breathe without praying for an end to this trial. Jesus answered those prayers And I started to look for work again. This time, it didn't I just needed something to keep me busy. A small group friend said she knew of a Starbucks manager who was hiring. Was it a job? Great, I'll take it. A few weeks later I got a Then in my spare time I organized an electric vehicle marketing event. After seeing some success with that event, I began going back to solar At the first one I went who later call me about for a consulting project, and I took it. Just days later came an opportunity which I had been hoping and praying for. I received a call from a recruiter representing a fast-growing who was looking for a sales manager for the entire Western US. I was hired for that job as well. And remember that interview that I bombed right in my mental health breakdown? I ended up winning their business and they became our largest customer. Since then, the Lord my work and startup endeavors as I continue to seek his with ups and downs along the way. Looking back, I realize to define too much of my identity. And when I experience public failure, I let that failure define me. I was paralyzed by the fear After going through some dark valleys, God showed me that my worth and they're not tied to or anything else on earth. My identity is in him, he loves me, and has a plan for my life greater than I can possibly imagine. And because my identity is in him, I choose not to let that fear or define my identity anymore. Thanks for letting me (congregation applauds) - Great job. Okay, so I've given you four to lower the fear of failure in your life. Now let's look at what to do, okay? Number five, the fifth thing Number five is refuse to The Bible has a lot of say about this because this is the root When we're comparing we always get in trouble. Now, in today's world, we have made comparing an indoor sport, and we compare everything. And the number one cause is social media. 'Cause you look online, well, they just had a beautiful meal. I'd better have a beautiful meal. (congregation laughs) And they just bought some new clothes, I'd better buy some new clothes. They don't ever show when (congregation laughs) And they're farting and their clothes are undone over here. They're showing their (congregation laughs) which is a total lie. But everybody's trying to top My dog's cuter than your dog. And parents are now trying and they get their own self-worth our of competing through their kids. Like the bumper sticker that says, &quot;My kid won student of the I go, I want a bumper sticker that says, &quot;My child was inmate of (congregation laughs) Or &quot;My kid beat up the student (congregation laughs) It's so ridiculous. And they're living their fantasies through their kids in sports. Have you gone to a soccer game recently? You'd think it's the World Cup. There are dads on the screaming at their children. It's just a game. They're supposed to be having fun, not beating their brains &quot;Kill that sucker!&quot; Really that competitive The Bible warns over and over and you should never compare 'cause there's nobody like you. You could compare 'cause they sound alike but (congregation laughs) And you're as different from somebody else as a submarine and a tangerine. When you get to heaven, &quot;Why weren't you more like somebody else?&quot; God made you to be made you. So you refuse to compare Every time you do that, What happens when you One of two things happens. One, you find somebody who's or making more money than you or is prettier than you or whatever and then you get discouraged. Or two, you find somebody and you get full of pride. Either way you're dead in the water. So God says don't do it. Don't compare your lawns, don't compare your spouse, The Bible says it's dumb. Let me show you what scripture says. God made you unique. Galatians 6:4. &quot;You should judge your own actions,&quot; in other words, it's okay to &quot;but never compare yourself with others. &quot;Then you can be proud in other words, without comparing So there's a legitimate you know what, I did my best. Maybe somebody did it better, it doesn't matter, I did my best. You can be proud of that, that's So you judge your own never, never compare You just gotta stop this. When you do start comparing yourself, would you agree that fear can make your imagination run wild? Have you ever had this happen? Yeah, you have, you're I remember one time years ago, I was in my early 30s and the held a conference in Amsterdam in which he hand-picked to come to this conference. And he invited me to speak at it. I'm gonna speak after Billy Graham. And I'm barely out of my 20s. And it scared me spitless. I was scared and my mind and I got in a cold sweat how people might compare And I'm going, &quot;What if &quot;and it doesn't translate in &quot;and it just bombs? &quot;Or what if people start &quot;What if they start walking out on me? &quot;What if they start booing (congregation laughs) I don't even know if that's possible but I was just hyperventilating until I remembered a Bible verse. It's the next verse on your outline, and it's 2 Corinthians 10 verse 12. &quot;We don't dare to compare, &quot;we don't dare to compare or &quot;For when they measure &quot;and compare themselves with one another, &quot;they are unwise, acting foolish.&quot; Do you realize that any time you compare your job to somebody else's Any time you compare your kids or your appearance or your salary or your talent to somebody Fools do that. God says, &quot;Don't compare &quot;You're unique, I made you to be you. &quot;I don't want you to be them That will lower the fear Number six, redefine If you wanna get rid give it a new meaning. Redefine failure for your life. Not for everybody else's Think of failure in a new way. Here's how I want you to think of failure. Failure is not missing Failure is not missing a goal, You're not gonna make all but at least you're trying, Failure is not missing a goal, If you don't have a goal for your life, you are failing in that area. 'Cause you're just coasting through life, you're just letting life happen Failure is not being failure is being unwilling to try. You do your best, you try. And if you're trying and you do it in faith and I think it was Lowell who said, &quot;It's not failure but low My dad used to always say, &quot;Son, &quot;always aim for the moon even (congregation laughs) I like that. So if you're aiming for the moon and you only hit right here, that's okay. But you're aiming for the moon. I would rather attempt to do and fail than attempt to do nothing And that's where most people are. They aren't doing They're drifting through Failure is not not meeting your agenda. Failure is not having an agenda. Not making the effort, not trying. My dad's motto, I heard him was this, &quot;I'll do the &quot;for Jesus Christ today.&quot; I like that. I'll do the best I can with what I have for Jesus Christ today, not tomorrow, that's a pretty good life motto. I'll do the best I can with what I have for Jesus Christ today. Hebrews 11:6 says, &quot;Without faith it is Faith means I'm gonna try. I'm gonna set a goal and Faith requires taking that risk. If you're doing something in faith, then you're already a success Whether you reach your goal or not, whether you meet the challenge or not, whether you hit the pinnacle You're doing it in faith. That is pleasing to God. And if what you're attempting then you can't be considered a failure no matter what happens. When we started Saddleback, when I started it with I told the kids and I told Kay what I wanted written on my at least he tried. (congregation laughs) Because the jury was still out and I wasn't sure if this And so I said, &quot;Just put on my &quot;I had a great goal, great &quot;I may not have reached I can't put that on my tombstone today 'cause now it'd look like false It worked, we're all here. But in the early days of a project, it's okay for you to I'm gonna start this new I'm gonna start this new That is faith. You redefine the meaning of failure. Life is a marathon. The Bible says in Matthew 9:26, &quot;According to your faith So if you have faith, then and God's gonna say, &quot;you get to choose how But this life is a marathon, And in a marathon only one person wins. There might be 20,000 people running. People do not run a 'cause only one person's They run a marathon to finish. To say, &quot;I did it, I did it.&quot; Life's not a 50-yard dash. You're not gonna be number neither I am. You're just not gonna be number one, there aren't enough things But what really matters is, Or did you cop out and quit too soon or coast the latter part of your life? Or did you run hard and to the day he took you home? That's the question. The question is not, The question is, did you And you can't run anybody I want you to hear another story of a family that took to banish the fear of failure. Would you give a warm (congregation applauds) Bless you. Fear is something I'm from early on in my life. From fear of rejection, facing my past pains, to not having control over At the same time, pushing past has been an amazingly gloriously wonderful journey. Being a young mom at 16 years old I was filled with fears for the future, especially with what I was Much of the statistics of teen moms did not look good for me or my daughter, all of it sounding like I was introduced to Saddleback when I was sitting in the passenger seat of my husband's car driving and looking up just in that said &quot;Purpose Drive.&quot; My mind quickly went to the and I turned to see the I was ecstatic. And I thought of the line that had impacted my own life greatly that went something like, &quot;There may be illegitimate parents, &quot;but there's no such thing That line gave me hope for So immediately my husband and We sat as far back as we possibly could for a false sense of security As we listened to the And then Pastor Rick said it. He said the line from that meant so much to me. So from then we started to attend. A couple years go by and we were regularly and then Saddleback finally sent a member to every nation in the world. I remember that day, on the big screens here I remember sitting in my chair in awe of the amazing things our church Then it hit me like a ton of bricks. What was I doing here, that does all these amazing for the glory of God? I wanted to be a part of there, everywhere. I prayed the prayer that Pastor Rick said was the most dangerous prayer to pray: Lord, use me. I honestly did not take Pastor and of course he was right. By that time I was in my I wanted them to grow up thinking of others and not themselves, so we jumped in and volunteered. We volunteered with the Motel Ministry, Compton cleanup, Beautify Saddleback, and anything their little Then my family and I felt We weren't quite sure what it would like and considered serving Our family stepped outside and sacrificed many I'm a complete control freak, so the thought of facing the minute-by-minute We knew God was moving but it was awful not of where, when, or how. So we as a family did what Things started to get even scarier as we stepped out of our comfort zone to prep us and the kids We served on peace trips to Mexico and then the Navajo Reservation. God was confirming with that we were meant to serve. Each trip brought different We had no idea at the time by much of my husband's family. My husband even received a disapproving of all the work we were doing and the goal of the As we continued to pursue we finally went as a family and served in Rwanda as our own peace team for a short-term three-week trip. It was amazing. It was uncomfortable, having to be fast, fluid, and flexible. But it was an amazing When we came back from that short trip, it seemed that God had other plans for us that did not include serving It was devastating to us and we had been working for quitting jobs, moving the that we thought we But of course God's plans From stepping out in faith onto a path that we couldn't see ahead of, step by step God held our hands, guiding us to be used in ways that we could've never have imagined. We've learned so much along the way, and though things didn't go we have learned to walk each day open to what God has to hold. If we as a family had decided from pursuing where God was leading, we would have never experienced the joy of living out our purpose. Because we stepped out in faith, we now have served as a on the Navajo Reservation, with my husband and I as co-leaders. I've gone out on my own a few times serving at refugee camps in with our Saddleback Relief Ministry. My husband has been which is his own journey And my daughter who is now 13 stepped out on her own faith journey and went on a trip to Rwanda with the Junior High and If you were to tell me many years ago when I was pregnant with that this would be my future, I would've thought you were crazy. Our God is bigger than any fear and he's shown me that he turns those fears into a life filled with so much Thank you. (congregation applauds) - Fantastic. Thanks. Okay. So, if you say, how do I Well, just find some place to serve. It doesn't matter where it is, just find some place to serve. Volunteer, start trying out. Go, is this me, is this Now let me give you the last two, I'll give 'em to you quickly, The seventh step in is to refocus on God's And both of them are important. I refocus on God's love for me and then I focus on my Because love is the antidote to fear. A lot of people think the It is not. The opposite of fear is love. And love lets go of fear, When love comes in your fear goes out the back door. You can't be afraid and Not with real love. Fake love, you can. But if you have real love in your heart, you don't have any fear. Why would people run to rescue little children? Not because of faith. They would do it because of love. A mom would do all kinds of because she loves her babies. And a dad will put his life at risk to protect his family, He'll do that and not out of And so if you make love the fear is gonna disappear. Here's what the Bible says. 1 John 4:18. &quot;Wherever God's love Circle that, there's no fear. &quot;Because God's perfect Now, love never fails And the Bible says here, &quot;Wherever there's God's So when you start feeling You've got a project, you've that's making you a little nervous, you're worrying, &quot;Am I gonna You need to pause and at &quot;God, you really love me.&quot; And you start focusing on You say it aloud, &quot;God, &quot;You're on my side, you &quot;It's not like you want me to fail.&quot; God doesn't want you to at what you're doing in life. &quot;God, you love me, You've heard me say many times, at every service I come out here I go, &quot;God, I love you and I love these people. &quot;And you love me and &quot;And these people love you There's no fear in love, This is not an audience to be, I'm no afraid of you, why? Because this is not an this is a family to be loved. And love gets rid of all fear. And the more you're filled with love, you're focusing on what other When you're fearful, you're That's not love. When you're loving, you're focused on what other people need. And the more loving you are, So if you make love your you're not gonna be afraid to do it. The Bible says, &quot;Perfect &quot;Make love your motivation.&quot; Now, in 1 Corinthians 13:7 and eight we have five characteristics of real love. &quot;Love never stops being patient. &quot;Love never stops believing. &quot;Love is always hopeful. &quot;Love never gives up. &quot;And love never fails.&quot; Circle that last, love never fails. Which means this. I don't care what you If you do it in love, whether you succeed in human terms or not, you cannot be considered a failure because you did it in love, and love never fails. You're not gonna reach You're not gonna be everything You're not gonna accomplish everything you think But if you become a great lover, a lover of God and a lover of people, then your life is a success And in God's book, it doesn't matter how many accomplishments or how many achievement you have, but if you really learn to love, love God with all your heart, love your neighbors and yourself, love never fails. You cannot be considered a failure. Everything else may fall You are not a failure because you loved God with all your heart and you loved the people around you and you loved people who needed the Lord. Number eight. The last one's real simple, Replace my fear with faith in Jesus. Now, if you take the it leaves a vacuum. You can't leave a vacuum in your heart so you have to replace the I replace my fear with faith in Jesus. I'll read these three Philippians 4:13. &quot;I have the strength to even the ones that scare me to death, &quot;by the power that Christ gives me.&quot; My faith is not in my own power. My faith is in Christ power inside of me. And when I know what I'm gonna do it not in my then I'm not afraid because he gives me the power to do it. Here's another great promise. We've been looking at promises all day. Isaiah 41:10, God says this to you. &quot;Fear not, for I am with you. &quot;Be not dismayed, for I am your God. &quot;I will strengthen you, &quot;and I will uphold you with You can go to the bank God cannot lie. He says, &quot;I will be there for you.&quot; Saddleback is a church of big dreams. We've had big, big dreams. If you're gonna be a part of this family, you need to learn how to dream big. And if there's anything I want you to do, if you're gonna be a I want you to dream great As your spiritual coach, as your pastor, I'm begging you, dream The nice thing about it, it doesn't cost anything, it's free. Dreams don't cost anything. I dare you to dream great dreams for God. What do you wanna see happen Ask yourself this question. What would I attempt for God And let that expand your mind. Dream great dreams for &quot;I'll give you the strength, &quot;And I'm gonna be with you &quot;and I will help you and I will uphold you &quot;with my righteous right hand.&quot; 2 Timothy 1:7, last verse. &quot;God does not give us a spirit &quot;Instead he gives us a spirit of power &quot;and of love and of self-control.&quot; In the King James original it says, &quot;Gives us a &quot;and a sound mind.&quot; Self-control, sound mind, same concept. I know this one from experience. Kay and I got married very Three months after we got I just had a total breakdown. Physical breakdown, I ended up in the hospital. And I was filled with the fear of failure and I thought, &quot;My life is over.&quot; It hadn't even started yet but I thought at 21 years &quot;I'm married but I can't even last here. &quot;I'm three months and I'm in the hospital, &quot;depressed and discouraged.&quot; And the psychiatrist in that &quot;You need to take a month off.&quot; And so we went to my parents who lived up in the Redwoods, and I felt like such a failure as a new husband and just in my life. I just thought, &quot;I can't handle anything.&quot; Everything made me upset And I remember one night I had a dream from all the tension of and all I can say is it was And I woke up in a cold sweat. And as I was laying there in bed, kind of breathing very fast, I heard the phone ring And my mom picked it up and &quot;Is this the house where Rick Warren is?&quot; And they said, &quot;Yes.&quot; He said, &quot;Could I talk to him?&quot; She said, &quot;Yes.&quot; So she called me, I got out of bed, I came and I got the And he goes, &quot;Rick, you don't &quot;How I got this number &quot;But I live in San Diego &quot;and give you this verse, &quot;'God has not given us a spirit of fear &quot;'but of power and love and a sound mind.' &quot;And Rick, you have a &quot;to a sound mind,&quot; and he hung up. (congregation murmurs) (congregation applauds) You don't think God uses people like that? Well, he does. It could've been an angel it just have to be a person And for whatever reason, he called. But I held on to that verse when I thought I was such a failure. My life hadn't even started yet. And he's done a few things And what I wanna say to you as your pastor who prays God is not done with you. God is not done with you. I don't care what you've been through, I'm sorry for all the pain, really, I am, but God is not done with you. And you cannot let fear hold you back. And I as your pastor will not let you let fear hold you back, and I will push you to say trust God, and everything you do, do it And if you do it in faith it doesn't matter how it because without faith it's And love never fails. Let's bow our heads. (congregation applauds) Dear God, we're all just normal people and we've all got habits and we all have our secret fears and our anxieties and our insecurities. But the good thing is we To you, you are the healer of minds, like you did with Kyle. And you are the healer of hearts, like you did with Valerie. And you are the healer of if we'll just trust you. We want our lives to be not fear. Forgive us for small Forgive us for not attempting and expecting great things from you. We don't wanna be the guy who goes and buries the We don't wanna be lazy or wicked. That would be evil. You have a made a deposit and you didn't intend them I pray that in this next will begin to find a place where they will be giving back, making a difference in the world with the talent that you gave them. If you've never invited say Jesus Christ come I'm turning it over to you. You're the manager, you're the boss. From here on out, I wanna Please, save me, Jesus. And I humbly ask this in your name. Amen.