Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to be learning how to read chilled and Now these are engineering drawings that show how the is all connected. By the end of this video, and follow a schematic, and know what the components all look like in the real world, understand the purpose of all the main components, and also recognize the different designs. Just before we get started, to thank our partner Danfoss If you're passionate about engineering, and then you need to sign up for available on their online Danfoss Learning have in a variety of languages, a wide range of topics, Whether you're looking to give or just learning for fun there's something there for you. Getting started is easy, you in the video description below, and then choose your first lesson. Okay, so firstly, every will look completely different. The symbols used are always similar, enough to recognize what they are, but they're always slightly different. However, they will all show how the chilled and condenser and distributed around the building. They will also show the main components, such as the valves and and they should also show which floor the components are located. Usually they will not display and fan coil unit that's Sometimes they will show the and other times they will if you want to see this detail. If the building rents and the tenants have full of that area, then the drawing from the main risers and anything after that is up to the tenant's fit out contractors, and they should provide of their own drawings for their area. Additionally, you should do not show every bend, or the exact route through the building, they are simply a flat 2D How to read the drawing. So in the top left and the lower right, you'll usually find the drawing number, which is a unique ID for In the bottom right, of the drawing, for example, You'll also find the date of production, the revision number, such as the client, the that produced the drawing. And most importantly you should find the legend, as well as their title. Whenever I'm reading a schematic, I always start by locating the risers, the AHUs, This shows you how the system works, how it's all connected, and where each part is located. The schematics can be quite cramped, and you'll sometimes need to to be able to follow the system. Some important things to note the pipes will often have which system it is, such as CHW, or CND, for chilled water and condensed water. They would also use F and You can see the direction just by these little arrows. The diameter of the pipe to the line. Newer designs might show the velocity, the pressure, You'll also see these this is just to identify For example, an IV stands The letters NC mean the You'll also see these little which have numbers and letters inside. This is a unique ID for the fitting. There should be a matching ID tag fixed to the physical fitting. And you can use the number in the system. And also look up details such as the type and size. Dotted horizontal lines from on the drawing mean that The arrows on the pumps also So let's look around the system to understand how it works. I've based this design for an older constant flow as it's easy to understand. I'll show you some real world and we can compare these so that you understand the differences. We'll first start with the chiller. I'll just show you some examples of how chillers are as it really varies. The two in the top right and are all air-cooled chillers, The components of each system are similar, but as you can see, the design does vary, and not every chiller installed will use the exact same So we'll start with a and the evaporator. Then we'll have a flow and return lines into and out of the chiller. Then we'll find the isolating valves, which are typically These will be used to cut the chiller off from the main system to You'll also find these valves such as pumps and AHUs. Then we'll have some temperature sensors, which the chiller or BMS is connected to, and the chiller will read this Then we'll have a commissioning station to measure the flow rate. This will be used to balance the system to meet the design flow rates, and also analyze the performance. I made another video previously on how to measure the flow rate of a chiller using this exact device. Check it out, link's in the Next we have a bypass there's a double regulating but it's more common these days to have just an isolating valve here, which is normally closed. Or there isn't a bypass line at all. These are used to either flush the system and bypass the chiller to stop dirt going into the heat exchanger or in this case, it's as it's a constant volume system. So this can be used to of the chiller if the chiller Then because we have a bypass line, we'll also have some This allows the chiller to but the bypass line can still be used. In newer systems you will find the motorized control valve here, which is connected to the BMS, and this allows remote control. Then we'll have some test points, also known as Pete Plugs, to plug measuring devices and pressure measurements. Then we'll have some temperature gauges to manually take readings. Over time these generally and the gauges often get stuck. Then we'll have pressure gauges Again, these can become and they can also become stuck. Then we'll have some flexible connectors. These prevent the vibrations from running along the pipes and they also allow the pipes to expand and contract slightly, which takes the pressure We'll usually find an on the condenser sides, so This design is for large There'll be multiple chillers. All of them will have so I'll just add that in as well. Next, we'll need some through the chiller and For this, we'll usually have typically running in duty and standby. Again, the triangle points Then we'll need some flexible connectors as the pumps will cause vibrations. Then we'll want some isolating valves, so that we can cut one or all of the pumps off for maintenance. Then we'll have some strainers, which capture the particles and prevent them from entering Some pump setups don't use this, and some will use just one in the system. Then we'll have some pressure gauges to allow manual readings. Then we'll have a non-return valve, which prevents the from forcing the pump to rotate backwards when it's turned off. Notice that this design doesn't have a second isolating valve In newer systems, however, like this one, you will usually find there is one. In the real world, it would and this is for a centrifugal pump set. We know the pumps need to push so we can connect the pump sets to the chiller's evaporator inlets. Chilled water is generated so we'll need to connect that back around to the pumps to create a circuit, which will distribute the chilled water. Notice there is a common header here between the flow and return lines. This separates the system into and allows a constant flow which the chillers prefer as they require a minimum flow rate. It also allows a variable flow as the cooling load changes. The chilled water is in the primary side loop. The secondary side loop will of the header to cool the building, and it will then dump it's into the header. If the flow rate in the then some of the chilled water will flow into the secondary loop, and back to the chillers. If the flow rate is high then all the chilled water will and the return line will flow Coming off the common This allows the flow to be split, and each will receive equal distribution. On the atlas of the header, you might find a commissioning station, or a double regulating valve. But in newer systems, this is likely to be on the return line. From the header, outlets to distribute the chilled of the building. For example, to the east and west side. Some designs won't have separate pumps for different parts of the building, they will simply have one pump set, which forces the chilled water These pumps will distribute water off to the AHUs and fan coil units. I explained when this detail but I'll just briefly of air handling unit connections, and also some fan coil units. Pause the video if you in some more detail. You'll also find a pressurization unit on the chilled water side, Typically this is connected on the main circulating is not affected by the pump. This unit just maintains a Now for the condenser water side. Remember, air cooled a condenser system. We will need a set of through the chiller and around the system, so we can drop these in first. Then we'll need to connect those pumps to the condenser inlets, of the condenser and up which are located up on the roof. So we can then connect the cooling tower to the riser via our header. This connection will need isolating valves and flexible connections. Not all towers will use two some will just have one. At the outlet of the cooling tower, we'll also need another isolating valve and another flexible connector. Then we can connect this back to the pumps to complete the circuit As this is a large building we'll need multiple cooling towers, and in this design, we'll Because they are in parallel with a common supply and return, we'll typically find a balancing line to ensure equal water and prevent air from being and reaching the pumps. There might also be a bypass across the cooling towers This can have various functions, such as maintaining a minimum flow rate, and also protecting the on low and high pressure of the return condenser water For example, during start Another common version for the cooling tower will look something like this. It has the flow and return There is a balancing line They have a make-up line, if the water was to get too low. And there will also be an Some will have a flushing line between the flow and return If you want to know how we've covered this in a previous video. Link's are in the video description below. And that pretty much covers So that about wraps things up. Before I go though, I just want to thank Danfoss one last time Don't forget to check out over at chillers.danfoss.com. Okay guys, thanks for watching. If you've enjoyed this video, please like, subscribe, and share, and on Facebook, Instagram, And check out our website Once again, thanks for watching.