Hello friends! "Wow, kitchen" with you! Just look at the beauty I got from spoiled cottage cheese and one egg. It's just a fairy tale, not buns! I have frozen cherries, it will be a delicious filling. Cherries - 300 grams, put in a saucepan and put on fire. Add sugar to the cherries to taste. I think three to four tablespoons will be enough. And I warm it up well. I have one tablespoon of starch. I add cold water, one or two spoons, and mix well so that there are no lumps. Beauty! Just a second and you're done. Let's keep an eye on the cherries. My cherries are pitted. We're warming up. When the cherries start to boil, I take the starch. I'll cheer him up a little, because he's settling. I pour in and stir quickly. Mmm, what a beauty! Kissel turns out just right. With every second the filling begins to thicken. As soon as I see that it starts to boil, I turn off the heat. I continue stirring for a few more seconds. Oh, how glossy and shiny it turned out. And how delicious it is! I leave all the filling on the stove to cool. And I immediately turn on the oven at 180 degrees up and down and start working on the dough. I take 200 grams of cottage cheese. I've already had a little fun, friends, so it's just right for baking. To the cottage cheese I add 100 grams of sugar, 10 grams of vanilla sugar, and a good pinch of salt. I stir a little and break one egg. I have all the ingredients at room temperature. Stir again until well combined. I pour in 80 milliliters of vegetable oil. This is how the lush mass turns out. Now I take 300 grams of flour, 10 grams of baking powder. I stir a little and begin to add it to the cottage cheese gradually. Now I'll also add so that the cheesecakes turn out even more fluffy - soda, which, my friends, I will extinguish with apple cider vinegar, just a little bit. That's it, that's it, that will be enough. I'll mix it again. Oh, the process has begun! The dough has already become like this, can you see? You can see the reaction! Add flour again. I will add flour gradually. The dough should be soft and tender; there is no need to knead anything for a long time. The main thing is to connect everything into one common room. The dough does not stick to your hands. It is so elastic, very pleasant, like plasticine. I won't add any more flour. This is what I have left: from 300 grams there are 20 left. I leave the dough on the table and cover it. Let it sit for at least 5 minutes. Literally 5 minutes passed, and that's enough. The dough should not stand for a long time so that the gluten does not spread so quickly. I take some of the dough and sprinkle the table a little. This is about half a centimeter thick. Now I take some kind of glass, a glass, a glass and cut out circles. I collect the leftovers back into a ball - the dough comes together perfectly without flour. I also divide it into pieces and roll it out. And now we will improvise our cheesecake. And this, friends, is how I tear off all the excess and fasten the edges together well. And this is how I got the cheesecake. Transfer to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. And I continue. Beauty! Take the filling and fill the centers. Do you think it will be delicious? It will be very tasty, friends, because cottage cheese and cherries are just the perfect combination. Give it a like, friends, but I still... one more touch from the artist - I'll sprinkle a little poppy seed on it. So, I put this beauty in an oven preheated to 180deg for 20-25 minutes. Let them bake here. Handsome guys! And today we have a healthy, delicious breakfast with just two ingredients. A frying pan on the fire, a piece of butter or a tablespoon of vegetable oil - it doesn't matter what you have. Take a good bunch of green onions, I grew them on my windowsill. I'm cutting it. When the butter has melted a little, you can add the onions and start frying. When the onion has reduced in volume, that's enough. I'll take the eggs. I will have four of these. And I'll quickly break it down here. Salt to taste, add ground black pepper. This, of course, is all optional. Warm up with the onion for a few minutes, two or three will be enough to get juicy and tender. That's it, a delicious, healthy, protein-rich breakfast is ready. Can you imagine, friends, how much usefulness there is here? Eggs are protein. Onions are full of vitamins. Oh, and it smells very tasty, don't you agree? Let's do it again. Well, of course! My little son will get up now. I will also serve olives for this breakfast. I have a jar - it's been standing since the New Year, and, of course, sauerkraut, so that our tummies enjoy life. Yes, when I see green onions in bunches, I understand that spring has come. By the way, it's fast, simple, and useful. How delicious is it, Seryozha? Well, it would seem, what's wrong with that? Just look at the beauty I got from spoiled cottage cheese and one egg. It's just a fairy tale, not buns! Beauty! I got another tartlet here. When the cheesecakes have cooled a little, you can sprinkle them with powdered sugar. Oh, I want to just fill them up, but I won't. Still, how great I am! "Beauty, I have you," say? Every morning is a chance to start life anew. This morning I had a choice: either lie down all day again, feel sorry for myself, cry, or get up and cook something tasty, distract myself. Which is what I did. And look how delicious and beautiful it turned out. Well, let's try it. Let's take one. Oh, the dough is soft - soft. Look at the cut, friends, the dough turned out soft and fluffy. Of course, juicy cherries add their own flavor. And all together it's simple and delicious. Even I can eat. Well, how did you like it? Is everything delicious? Liked? &quot;Yes&quot;. Bon appetit, peaceful skies and delicious food to everyone. And just the right amount of sweet! You can add more sugar to the dough, or more sugar to the filling. The dough is very cool, cool dough, right? &quot;Yes&quot;. Did you like the dough? Are you looking for milk?