It's been named the second-best and it's renowned as the best Getting a table is nearly impossible. The media loves it, and Even the late, great Anthony Bourdain said he Despite the hype, the humble the press and would pay anything to be left alone. My expectations are sky-high. I have to admit, during this visit, there were a You've probably seen some of the many claiming it to be one of the best in the world. Unfortunately, I beg to differ. It takes us to Basque country in Northern Spain. It's a country within a country, and it feels that way. We are on our way to a picturesque Called Axpe-Atxondo. It's peaceful, beautiful and the perfect Asador Etxebarri. The concept is simple. Serve the highest quality flame-grilled food. It's the brainchild of local He is a self-taught chef who has been with an obsession for achieving perfection. He grew up around the corner, in a Where his mother and grandmother would Carrying on tradition, Chef Bittor does the same. In his quest, he has invented many of including a press that allows him to grill We are the first to arrive. With welcome drinks in hand, we scout out the best table The first thing I notice is the materials. Everything looks and feels like it Taking a quick look around, we Looking over the list, we The list has some wines but this bread really grabs my attention. Just look at that. Superb. For champagne, we start with a But knowing that there will they have a top selection of Spanish red wines, I started looking through the wine list. And then, this catches my eye. A heavy hitter. 1957 Vega Sicilia Unico gran reserva. It's known by many to be the At 2300 euros, it's not cheap, but it's something I probably won't The wine is opened and because it has been in the bottle for a long time. so we will return to it later. On the menu are a la carte options and a 14-course tasting menu for 280 euro. Full table only. That means if one person orders the tasting menu, everyone else at the table needs to order it too. This happens at many Michelin-star restaurants, and for me it's no problem. Getting a reservation is a problem. Because this place is so popular, Here is our first appetizer. It's one of Extebarri's most iconic Chorizo. This is an interpretation of Joselito chorizo After making a paste from chorizo peppers, Joselito Presa and Secreto are mixed It is then stuffed into natural sausage This was very tasty as a starter. In the world's best restaurants, meals These are served both to prepare the guest for the Most of the time, they serve complex, flavor-rich But here, they use one Next is anchovy. Not the salt-cured kind. This one is marinated since it's in season. And then grilled. Simple, tasty and fresh. I love simple yet great things. High-quality ingredients, perfectly prepared. We move onto buffalo mozzarella cheese. This is an Etxebarri classic. The chef has his own herd of buffalo, and this cheese is made from It's served here with basil oil, and It's clear that the chef makes no compromises when it comes to the quality of the ingredients. In an interview, Bittor mentioned And all this attention gives him stress The wait is over. It's time to taste the red wine. By some sort of miracle, this wine is almost 70 years old yet I can see why Vega Sicilia I tell Mohamad, the sommelier, to definitely He is very grateful for it and wants Here is the first one. Our next drink is a Spanish It's made with Albarino grapes that It is paired with our next course. Grilled white asparagus with spring mushrooms. Asparagus is a very important This dish is a bit more complex and It's a delicate yet flavorful dish that They don't consider themselves They say they are just a small house So it's no surprise that the from what we have seen in other They come out, say the name Not everyone speaks English, so sometimes I also have to pour my own They are kind and they smile, but Next, razor clams with a pea sauce. Razor clams are a fascinating species. All because of their oversized foot. They use it to create thrust similar to squid. But its main purpose is to dig. Razor clams have adapted to become the And for thousands of years, this skill helped Unfortunately for the razor At some point in the last century, we cracked the Salt And find a new home it does. In our bellies. Simple but beautiful presentation. I love it. The razor clams are perfectly tender. So far, I can tell you that the quality Our next wine comes from one Chassange Montrachet. This is a 2021 chardonnay from Benoit Moreau. It's paired with lobster. Flawlessly cooked and wonderfully Look at the size of these claws. One of the biggest I've ever seen. Imagine how large the lobster must have been. It was a tough claw to crack. Surprisingly, the lobster also goes Red wine and seafood don't usually match. But here, they get along like It really shows the amazing Next, the perfect prawn from Palamos. The Palamos prawn is not to be confused with Carabineros are a deep water prawn They are the biggest prawns in the world, known Gamba de Palamos, or Palamos prawns come from the They live in a protected environment, are fished under strict, sustainable regulations and widely considered the best in the world. The next time your prawn is served with the head, you are in for a real treat. The head is actually full of gorgeous flavor, but there is a trick to getting at it. First, you need to hold the Then, twist off the body. The head acts like a cup This is the good stuff. All you need to do is suck it up. Brains and all. In many cultures, it's considered the best part. This was high-quality prawn, Next is baby octopus, artichoke and seaweed. The salty seafood goes well Here we have another delicacy from the sea. The sea urchin. Sea urchins are fascinating creatures as well. There are almost a thousand species of And they are also one of the Their hard shell is covered with movable spines and they have five teeth and other food from the rocks. Here we have it served in its shell. It is rich and creamy, with Next is another course with simple ingredients. This is egg with St. George mushrooms. The egg is slowly grilled to this Incredibly simple but delicious. Our next dish is hake. Specifically, the 'cococha' or cheeks, served This is the most exquisite part of It had a melt-in-the-mouth quality I really liked. We received the next course, but the server didn't speak guisantes lagrima a la brasa. At first glance, it looks like a bowl of peas. But these are not just any peas. These are tear drop peas. They are grown in the north and can Also known as green caviar, they are one of the world's They can only be picked at dawn because And they lose more than half That means transport from the orchard to It's one of the reasons for the high price tag. These precious peas are grilled, of It was extremely fresh and Next we have red snapper. First, they show it to us whole, Perfectly grilled. The sauce is made using the gelatin Finally, we are presented with the main course. Meat lovers, feast your eyes on this. Many people say that this Do you see this? PERFECT! Supreme cut, perfect sear, gorgeous flavor and I really liked the taste of the aged beef. I've had many fantastic steaks in my life. In Japan, Argentina, and many other places. This was also a perfect steak. But to call it the best in the world? I don't think there is such a thing. With desserts coming up, Chef proves This is milk ice cream smoked It's so good, I ask for another one. The combination of beetroot If you are off the sweets and working This is black and white chocolate souffle. And with that, stick a fork in me. I'm done. Our total for today is 2860 euros for two. And now my final thoughts on Etxebarri. The story of this restaurant is very interesting. They say they are just a small house yet, there is still a huge You have to wait months if you want to eat here. Nowadays, many restaurants put in a lot of effort As I see it, in the case of Asador Although, they didn't ask for it, they got it, and it's become larger than life. Why this particular restaurant I don't know. And don't get me wrong, chasing perfection I can't judge if this is There are many places with good fish, And there are many places But to me, a restaurant is not just about For me, a good restaurant is a more complex thing. To dine here is pricey, and for 300 euros there are other places that provide better service and a At least for me. Apart from the hype and the at the end of the day it's a good restaurant. If you're looking for a place to eat you will certainly find it at Etxebarri. I wish Chef Bittor a long and successful career. To me, anyone who strives and that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me! If you like this video, hit subscribe! See you next time