When Senator Stephen Douglas proposed the building of a railway and nothing more. In fact, settled the slavery issue. Everything else was the in his mind. They were completely wrong. unknowingly tipped the first domino leading to Bleeding Kansas. Welcome to our latest video on the opening salvos of the bloodiest conflict in in Kansas to the abolitionist firebrand John First Battle of Bull Run. The Compromise of 1850 created popular to make it relevant. Slavery was never going to Cotton couldn't handle their climates, and the expanded by the 1853 Gadsden Purchase, was far north climate-wise and too near free states Kansas, however, was next to slaveholding plantation agriculture. Both pro-slavery and expeditions to settle and claim Kansas. However, and instead, steady trickles of settlers made the first to act, establishing the first towns and in greater and greater numbers, so the pro-slavery To that end, armed Missouri residents from to cast proslavery votes before returning legislature and Congressional representative quickly exposed , and free-soilers set up their ruffians responded by aggressively intimidating on the new state constitution, sending the which the equally pro-slavery President Pierce form their own militias and create their own out of control, the border ruffians moved to were followed by the sacking of free-soil firebrand abolitionist John Brown attacked killing 5. Violence escalated until October when clashes between anti-slavery Jayhawker militia The Republicans Rise caused a major political realignment. Democratic political ineptitude alienated everyone else in ruffians made it worse. Northern and western Democrats for the party's hammering in the 1854 began advocating Douglas' moderate position Meanwhile, the Whig party already teetered on Act. When its leadership also supported the left the party. In Michigan and Wisconsin, they third parties and Democrats opposed to slavery's the Whigs were gone. As the Republicans gained panicking. The Republican platform of defending every other territory, and ending Slave Power's everything the South believed in and stood for. literal monsters who threatened their way of life. The temperature continued to rise during the nominated the explorer and soldier John C. the Democrats nominated James Buchanan. He diplomat whose conciliatory nature would heal these were mere obfuscations. Despite his held a decision-making position. In truth, he shirked responsibility, and avoided interests won Buchanan the nomination, not Buchanan had long sought to expand US territory to benefit slavery and was willing to go along the Southern Democrats wanted in a candidate, The 1856 election was bitter, as the Deep The Democrats campaigned on Fremont being the secession threat. Fremont ran on preventing the fraudulent pro-slavery government in Kansas. but he quickly caused a wildfire. During this time, the United States Supreme slaveholding families. A few days before his the upcoming ruling in Dred Scott vs Sandford . As pushed Justice Robert Grier, a fellow allow Chief Justice Robert Taney to issue the sectarian. On March 6, 1857, two days after Taney released the worst ruling in American legal that Scott had no standing to sue as a slave, and the sweeping conclusion that only whites were or unconstitutional, and slavery had to be allowed end of the slavery issue, making it a matter of it was the Civil War's point of no return. The condemned by everyone else. Northerners seized which detailed all the case law and American had always been American citizens, evidence Taney Missouri Compromise was so far outside the bounds consider it was Taney's personal opinion. including a previously obscure one-term and northern Democrats pointed to Buchanan's Slave Power would stop at nothing to impose violence to force slavery on Kansas, and now the judicial activists to enshrine it nationally. support for the Republicans increased, especially accusations against himself. The confrontation was slavery in the territories. One man wanted that confrontation to be bloody and The firebrand abolitionist had been fighting into Missouri to liberate slaves and was now planned to seize the Federal arsenal at Harpers for a righteous slave rebellion, purging slavery support from prominent abolitionists, there's of his plan. On October 16, 1859, Brown and 21 However, no slaves arrived to reinforce him. Brown but it's not clear if they actually Brown was quickly surrounded by armed citizens certain Colonel Robert E. Lee on October As Dred Scott had set the North's will to fight, was the sum of all Southern fears, and the fact confirmed that narrative. Southern minds were it would mean the death of the South. They'd their own survival. It was under this cloud that the 1860 Presidential moderate during the 1858 Lincoln-Douglas Debates nomination after three ballots. It was hoped the Republicans weren't crazed fanatics while the Democratic Convention was in chaos. Douglas change , but only after all the Southern rejected their plank of extending slavery to or not. These Southern Democrats formed their own President John Breckinridge. Those disaffected fourth candidate, John Bell. Consequently, Lincoln popular vote, despite more secession threats. Throughout the campaign, Lincoln had unambiguously to end slavery unilaterally, and he would not paranoid Southerners refused to believe it. To was a dagger to slavery's throat. Consequently, secession threat. On December 10, Buchanan Congress. He stated that while secession was not power to prevent it. The South was outraged North was outraged that he intended to do nothing. cabinet supplying secessionists with weapons and secession through an Ordinance adopted at a had adopted similar measures despite internal drafted a constitution in Montgomery, Alabama States of America under President Jefferson strongly anti-secession, refused to swear loyalty Federal Property and Ft. Sumter and other property owned by the Federal government most were only maintained by a few caretakers. most of whom were stationed to protect secessionist militia seized Federal property. Buchanan did nothing. As such, individual officers 1861, a secessionist mob attempted to seize Ft. Lt. Adam Slemmer, ordered them to disperse and Florida's secession, his superiors surrendered Realizing that Barrancas and Fort McRee were and supplies that couldn't be moved and retreated defensible. Further south, the Navy reinforced its from southern ports. Pickens would be resupplied federal positions throughout the war. that decided the issue. Charleston and a number of fortifications were commanded by Department had ordered all garrisons to hold but Moultrie wasn't designed to defend against abandoned Moultrie for the more defensible Ft. South Carolina militias seized Castle Pinckney. alongside the arsenal on the 28th, placing refused to cede or to overtly support Sumter. of the West to reinforce and resupply Anderson mission until rebel batteries fired on it. By Star had fled. Having made a halfhearted attempt, War! plots in Baltimore, Lincoln snuck into DC for his Lincoln pledged to defend Federal property, slavery in the South, and promised not to Provisional Confederate Army on February 28 in Charleston. On March 6th, he called for The two sides attempted to negotiate, but their recognize the Confederacy, they would not back arraigning for another, more secretive resupply who authorized Beauregard to reduce Sumter if refused on April 11, and at 04:30 on April 12, ineffective fire until 14:00 on April 14, when Opening Moves stirred the patriotism of the North. The Union shot. The next day, Lincoln declared the South volunteers to serve for 90 days to put it down. to reopen secession, and four more states joined Confederate industrial capacity and significantly wholehearted. Its Appalachian counties were slaveholders. Consequently, the Unionists To solidify Confederate control, the capital Meanwhile, many existing Federal and State volunteers rushed to recruiting stations. This April 19 a Baltimore mob attacked regiments moving Baltimore occupied, habeas corpus suspended, and arrested. Maryland wouldn't be given the chance Ohio volunteers to support the Wheeling government believed that the rest of the South was like appeared and defeated the rebels, they'd return to would give up once the actual fighting started. By July, about 35,000 soldiers were camped around North America. However, its training, equipment, Brigadier General Irvin McDowell, considered it fix these problems before their 90-day enlistments war would be over with one decisive battle. McDowell moved to attack Beauregard's 21,000 His plan called for three columns to distract, before driving on Richmond, ending the war. Johnston's 10,000 men in the Shenandoah Valley. five days to march the 37 miles to Centerville, behind Bull Run. Meanwhile, Johnston had slipped men by railway to support Beauregard. Finding assault directly, McDowell instead flanked the but the inexperienced soldiers got tangled up Beauregard's headquarters in Wilmer McClean's ordered a pinning attack on the Union left in orders only to prepare an attack, and most were moving up the Confederate left flank. 3800 line broke. McDowell then halted to organize his Thomas Jackson's brigade to move into position earning Thomas the nickname Stonewall Hill for the next four hours until Johnston Union's right flank, forcing their retreat. a wagon overturned and blocked Cub Creek Run started by the numerous civilians picnicking while it reached Washington. The rebels didn't pursue Of the 70000 soldiers in the area, only 36000 Both sides finally realized this war would In our next episode, the Union will miss its ensure you don't miss that, make sure you are Please consider liking, subscribing, commenting, have started releasing weekly patron and YouTube ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals