There's more to machining watch gears than In this video, I will introduce some of the made, including my own take on traditional Unlike the watch screw we made previously, our gear starts as a disc blank I prepared As such, we need a different way of holding. Historically, watchmakers used an arbour, In the modern age, we can use super glue instead, Like the gear itself, this arbour can also lathe. I'm starting from a brass blank, 25 mm in I need to drill a hole in the arbour, to accept We will be gluing the spigot to the brass For the adhesive to work effectively, the be between 25 to 80 microns. Thanks to the invention of the external and accurately. Moving on to the spigot, I start with a steel It's simply a matter of machining this to in the headstock. [Music] Now I apply the adhesive to the metal surfaces. It's worth pointing out that, on a larger one piece would be the preferred approach. Now, I machine the diameter down to less than This will allow the cutter to clear the arbour In some cases, such as when making escape we would leave the arbour larger to support I have made the arbour longer than necessary there's no point in reducing the diameter clear the gear cutter. I drill a hole in the centre that's larger grooves so the super glue can cure. I start with a gear blank 0.45 mm thick. This is 50 microns over the final dimension, The blank was taken from round bar, rather stresses in the material. This means that as I machine the brass away, [Music] Super glue is applied to the arbour. Because I machined the face in-situ, I know I left the blank oversized, so I'm not concerned [Music] Now, it's time to put the hole in the middle This is important to get right. If the hole is slightly off centre, the gear won't work. Due to the small scale of these watch components, Drill bits are a good way to make holes, but We need to bore the hole using this micro I made this simple holder so I can mount the on centre height. [Music] I bore the hole just shy of my final target I'm lazy, so rather than boring to the exact reamer. [Music] Now, it's time to machine the outside to The final diameter is determined by the number of the gear, in this case 0.25. The module of a gear is a metric that quantifies Perhaps surprisingly, the exact final diameter called depthing to determine the correct meshing Mass-produced mechanical watches are made In this case, the wheels have little variation Here, I am setting up for dividing. I custom machined the spindle for my watchmakers I procured from an old optics lab. To fit this system, I remove the drawbar from to minimise disturbance to the gear blank. I slide the rotary table onto the back of it. One thing I love about this setup is that or I can connect the stepper motor to a magic electronics expert. For cutting the gear teeth, I use a system a micrometer stage and a small DC motor to I check the attachment is bolted square to For cutting the gear teeth, it is possible one you see here but, you guessed it, for is much cheaper than these commercial options. Its disadvantage is it only has one cutting than I would with a multi-point cutter. The cutting tip is aligned to the centre of the remainder of the tooth-cutting process. [Music] I gradually lower the cutting tip until it From this point, I can add the required depth barrel. [Music] Now, the teeth are cut, I clean off my writing the process to remember which wheel I was To provide a sense of scale, here I show the Under the scanning electron microscope, it All the imperfections can be seen. Nevertheless, these teeth have turned out At this point, you would be forgiven for thinking The wheel will work like this, but spokes For faster moving wheels, the spokes have of inertia, improving the efficiency of the In the horological world, cutting the spokes According to George Daniels, wheels this size This does indeed work just fine but perhaps Here, I have a go at milling out the spokes I can swap the spindle round in my gear cutting fixture instead. In its new configuration, I mount the attachment wheel. For the milling cutter, I use this 0.5 mm This is quite small, so care is required when It's crucial it is concentric, otherwise Thankfully, my watchmakers collets are accurate The geometrical calculations were harder than myself when I made the initial cuts in the Luckily, this was rectified with a second [Music] Once the spokes have been cut, I move onto [Music] Acetone softens the superglue and the wheel I use some 2000 grit emery paper to remove I rinse off the grit in solvent but I will fitting it into the watch. The milling was a success but isn't perfect. Therefore, I need to clean it up with fine A great way to protect the wheel when holding Leather is grippy so holds the wheel firmly [Music] I begin by filing the spokes. These only need a light touch up with a barrette The barrette file only cuts on one side and This allows me to get into the corners without This files also works well on the hub. I use the tip of the file only due to the [Music] A nice way to hold the wheel when working cork. Champagne corks work well partly because they surface makes it easier to work on the component. The wheel teeth dig into the soft surface, [Music] The wheel is now ready to be packed away until the wheel. Membrane boxes are perfect for storing delicate Thank you for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please consider See you in the next one!