On November 23rd, 1998 I had an experience if you believe my experience. What matters about hell and avoid it just the same. was an out of body experience thats classified 12:1-2 Paul, when he was caught up into heaven of the body he didnt know. Well, the Lord vision you can actually travel, like Paul 8, he was picked up by his hair and was carried travel in a vision. The things experienced be in your physical body. You can travel in 1 Corinthians 15:44 talks about a natural scare me with dreams and terrify me through Isaiah 21:2 says, he was given a grievous vision that caused his bones to shake. You vision. This is not to compare my experience just trying to give you a scriptural basis You might say, Bill, Im a Christian. about hell? Well, here are three quick severe hell is, youll be much more appreciative saved from. fear of the Lord. Proverbs 16:6 says, By What is the fear of the Lord? Deuteronomy Lord is to read His word and to obey His word. that we will obey Him. Thats what the fear 3. It causes us all to have more of a passion 5:10-11 Paul said, Knowing therefore the you understand how severe hell is, you will to take that effort to witness because Gods heaven. God wants us to have His heart and it on anyone, but to share truth with people. We went to a prayer meeting Sunday night, unusual about the night. I have never studied movies. I never drank. Ive never taken We came home and my wife and I went to bed. get a glass of water. Suddenly, I was pulled your body. I found myself falling through an actual prison cell in hell. filthy, stinking, dirty prison, but like a be gathered together as prisoners, or gathered Proverb 7:27 mentions going down to hell means inner rooms. Job 17:16 says, They I could give you many scriptures on that. prison cell. The first thing I noticed was ability to sustain life. I wondered how could up, but I tried to move and it took so much But see Isaiah 14:9 -10 says, Hell from They would say, Art though become weak them who go down into the pit. I am as a man you endure in hell, for all eternity, is youre Acts 17:28 says, In Him we live comes from God. Its not automatic. in the cell. They were demons pacing like in appearance with bumps and scales all over and claws about a foot long. These particular not an exaggeration. I can give you a scripture blaspheming and cursing God. They had an extreme the demonic realm (Revelation 13:6, James Then they directed that hatred that they had have I done to them? The one demon picked broke. I collapsed on the floor. I couldnt Why am I not dead? into my chest and tore the flesh open. It happening. I thought, This couldnt be 10:28 says, Fear him who is able to destroy Luke 16, the rich man. He lifteth up his eyes. He had a tongue, he had eyes and he had a these torments. from the wounds. But Leviticus 17:11 says, Well, there is no life in hell so there is out of the pit where there is no water. These demons have no mercy over you whatsoever. Lord is upon those that fear Him. Well, have that benefit. was Gods presence there to illuminate it It was pitch black in hell. Lamentations 3:6 [they that be] dead of old. Jude 13 mentions just dark. You could literally feel the darkness. mentions a darkness that may be felt, because penetrates through every cell in your body. over next to this large raging pit of fire. raging high up into this open cavern. It wasnt real, literal fire. Psalms 11:6 says, Upon and a horrible tempest. Matthew 13:49, just and cast the wicked into a furnace of This is where I could first see people inside I know this is awful to hear about. Most of you are a fireman. The flesh was hanging the screams were so loud, you wanted to get all eternity. You have to endure that. my God, to the wicked. There is no peace my wife know where I was at, but I understood chance to say goodbye to her. That thought never say goodbye to your loved ones and they Death does not mean cease to exist. Death You are just down deep in the Earth. I understood to get there. I ascended when I left. More talk about where the current hell, or Sheol, 26:20 and Numbers 16:32-33. It is very clear understood that. torment and degrees of punishment. Remember receive the greater damnation. Inferring which says, it shall be more tolerable than for that city, inferring there is much worse of a punishment suppose it shall the Son of God. There is a worse punishment. level in hell. Any level is horrendous beyond I wanted to talk to a person, just anybody. with people, but you are kept apart. Even burning through the flames, you are kept You are isolated and alone for all eternity. You have no purpose and no destiny. It is 9:10 says, There is no work, nor device, 6:4 says, Your name is covered in darkness. famous here. No one will know who you are you are not getting out. Job 7:9 says, no more. You understand there is no one The stench in hell is so fowl and putrid, than any open sewer. Remember Jesus rebuked a disgusting fowl odor to them. Also, there go to Hawaii to the volcano, they have signs a certain point because of the toxicity of you if you breath it. It is called sulfur The word brimstone is also in the Bible. You are air that you dont want to breath. It is enough air to breath. You have to fight for like at any moment you are going to die of gives breath to the people upon the earth. deep beneath the earth. God is very specific You need to sleep in hell. I was only there weeks without sleeping. You know if you stay function. Well, in hell you need to sleep progressively worse. Revelation 14:11 says, up forever and ever and they have no rest no rest in the torment, but no rest of any are like the troubled sea that cannot rest. a blessing from God. Psalm 127:2 says, The not his beloved, so you wouldnt derive Standing next to this large pit of the fire, People were burning. You are totally helpless strength and you dont. I was standing beneath twisted, deformed and grotesque. Some were feet tall. And there were snakes all along and through the flames. It is so dark in I was standing on a bed of maggots. Solid Jesus said, Where their worm dies not their as in you have your own personal over them. I know this is disgusting, but understand and have the heart desire to go go to this place. Isaiah 14:11 says, Where worm will cover thee. Again there is the know this, but if a dead animal is being eaten the animal, the maggots die. I never knew the flesh. That is why Jesus said, Where never fully consumed in hell. Job 24:20 says, Is that disgusting enough? hell. You experience hunger and thirst. You water? Thus to give you a drop of water, that rely on one drop, but in hell you would. You would you will never get that drop. anything you can imagine. All of us have experienced share with you an experience I had, so you because we are sitting here where its Just to share with you an experience that I had. When I was 17 years old, I used to surf a We used to surf on Cocoa Beach. There were We were all having a great time and suddenly a shark. Now there was a frenzy of sharks. There was blood all over the water. I remember, knees as the shark passed under my board. and bit my board in half. Now I was swimming off his board too. Then the shark came under the water. moment. Right? You can kind of relate to that more fearful than that. Well, that fear that with what you feel in hell. It wont even them down into destruction where they are terror lasts for all eternity. Praise God. mouth and let me go. That is a miracle of I looked and I didnt have a mark on my leg, you know it pierces it. God was really Christian then, but I got saved immediately mercy. horrible place? Well, He explains why. for the devil and his angels. He never intended for the devil. He uses the word prepared He goes to prepare for us a place in heaven was, you see in James 1:17 says, Every from the father of lights. All the good automatic. In the preparation, He just simply See hell is dark because 1 John 1:5 says, hell because John 1:4 says, God is life. 4:16 says, God is love. There is no mercy of the Lord is in the heavens. There is It is the Lord that gives us strength. 11:11 says, Water is the rain of heaven. 9:6 says, He is the prince of peace. the good goes with Him. You cant have the two. If you are a person in life that says, You know, I dont want anything to do with God. Well fine. There is a place prepared that? Other than one thing, the fire in hell says He will pour out His wrath on sin in wrath on Jesus on the cross so we wouldnt Jesus take it or you can take it. Its your As I was looking at all of this horror, something black. All of a sudden, this bright light didnt see His face. I just saw the outline light. Like no light I have ever seen and He said, I am. When He said, I am, I died or what happened. I can only explain saw Him, said His countenance was bright as dead. Well, after a time, He touched me because He went to the cross, I didnt have the cross. for the cross. I just had a new appreciation. a horrible death on a cross, so that I wouldnt in my mind. I had eight different thoughts. share two with you right now for times tell anybody about this experience. They are dream. He said, Its not your job You just go and tell them. I know you? He had blocked it from my mind me. You might say, Bill, where is that and Luke 18:34 are examples where God hid the reason He blocked it from my mind. If I didnt realize, I would have known He as an unsaved person, He wanted me to experience of us in life here know what its like to is so dire, you can always die to get out out of the pain. seconds to understand what its like to get you out. No Calvary coming ever get out of this place. Isaiah 38:18 says, for thy truth. And we know Jesus said, I am no hope for Him because its too late. And thats gonna get out. the country. I told one friend and it spread our own way. We never took any money from then I complained to the Lord saying, Lord that says they have been to hell. Im very spoke to me one day and said, Bill, its you being obedient. God has given us There are no big shots with God Im not going to go to this horrible place. hell? Well, God doesnt send anybody minute. But, there are two reasons good does of good and Gods understanding of good are two offend His law in one point we are guilty lie once, if we have one lustful thought that a scripture from Proverbs 24:9 that says, If we have one foolish thought our entire That is a pretty high standard, isnt it? say Hey, Im pretty good let me in. to my standards. You are not good. Job iniquity like water. Thank God its not with Jesus Christ. Amen. host I was interviewed by, whose station is show and he said, Dont you quote me You got that? No Bible verses. I said, to you that your God is unreasonable because a good person. My viewpoint is just as valid heaven, He is actually guilty of a hate crime. jail. Thats what I think of your God. What God gave me an analogy. Thank God. I said, person. Let me explain. I said, Say in the country and you knocked on their door. you because I am a good person. What do They dont know you. You have no relationship You go through your whole life. You want the son of God, which He said is the only way to His house. Then at the end of your life, you come knock on His door and demand to live there because you are a good person. What does good have to do with it? You dont know Him. You have no relationship with Him. You see, God offers to be our father throughout People push Him away, reject Him and say, to be our Father. See, God is our creator. to be our savior. Then He becomes our Father. house. Otherwise, you dont know Him. You 1:12, John 8:44, Romans 9:7-8, John 17:9, not your Father until you invite in Jesus He says, Well, you Christians are narrow right and I think all roads lead to heaven. you another analogy, which God gave me. I said, Say you invited me over to dinner to your home and you said, Bill I want you street, go up the hill, you come to my house. And I said to you, you know what? I think going to get off at Beach Boulevard because what I think. Well, if you dont listen trying to give you clear directions to my gives us clear directions to His house. I we have to do is follow His clear directions minded, that is specific. He is being specific. keep us out. 3:36 says, He that believes on the Son not on the Son shall not see life but the believe on the Son. How do you do that? Just two verses. The first is, Luke 13:3 where Jesus said, Unless a man repent, you shall all Repent means to turn away from a sinful lifestyle assent to the fact that Jesus is God and say God, and then go on living a sinful lifestyle or doing whatever you want. That is not repentance. Repentance means you are humble enough to to sin any more. I want to follow Jesus. own you cant resist sin, but when you are the grace and ability to resist the sin. But away from it. confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and the dead you shall be saved. You have to believe in your own heart and confess Him with your own mouth. That is the only way you can be saved. Jesus said in John 14:6 I am the way, the truth and the life. You want to live in His house, you do it His You say, Bill I just dont believe that. 21:8 says, Whosoever is not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. God has a book and on judgment day He is going to look to see if our names are in His book. You know when the Titanic set sail, there were all different religions and all different walks of life. And they the ship: the lower, the middle, and the upper Starline office in Liverpool, England, there anxiously each day as a man would come out the signs. One sign said, Known to be saved and Now when the ship left, there were all different of people. But in the end there were only two. your choice. your name is written in His book? You have take a chance with your soul. Whether you we are made in Gods image. You will spend is not our default destination. There needs With every head bowed and every eye closed. name is in His book and I dont know if compromised, but I want to give my life to want to take my chance and me: Dear God in heaven, I know that I have sinned and I cannot save myself. I believe you sent your Son, was crucified, died and was buried, but rose forgive me and my sins. Im sorry. I surrender you as my Lord and Savior. You are the Son you for taking me to heaven. I now confess in Jesus name. Amen.