today I need to help PSG win their there's just one problem... all my players are tiny! Haaland has put a curse on them to stop and Mbappe but all curses can be broken because every time we score a goal, this means if we score with we're gonna have 11 giants lifting the trophy but it won't be that easy, because we're look at the difference in size they're shorter than the mascots! all right let's win the Champions League but Liverpool would quickly take no - Sergio Ramos run! no he flicked it over me! Donnarumma you gotta save that! it's gonna be harder than I thought to score and just a few seconds later we need to get these giants onto our team this is not going well we'd finally get our first go Neymar, you're stronger! finish! no what a save! the first half would finish but only a few minutes into the Neymar... mini Neymar is turning into giant oh my days oh Harvey Elliot's injured we would keep Liverpool from extending their lead giving ourselves a last can we tie it off? cuts it back, to Messi and he puts it away! Messi is now a giant! we have a 2-2 draw going into leg two so we were off to Liverpool for leg two winner moves on to the semi-final I didn't even realize my players were walking out look at the height difference they're like three times the size! the first shot would come from giant Messi... finish! not a bad attempt Liverpool's first chance would well done Donnarumma we're gonna have to figure out you know what let's try - let's just do this get away from me Salah get away from me... Salah get away from me! oh my - no no no no what a save Donnarumma what happened? oh my days it's a free kick look at the wall! look at Messi in the wall! yes Messi - he blocked it but we weren't able to hold them off forever no! I just assisted him ! I was too worried about scoring with a fast start to the second half would Mbappe! what a goal! we have another player turning into a giant and giant Mbappe would have an immediate impact Encara - Messi, Encara - look at the speed! finish ... what a goal! no one's going giant because Messi I'm starting to think the giants aren't even that look at the press, one minute I am scared to Donnarumma, Donnarumma just kick it - far that's it? that's it okay, we're on to the semi-finals! that very difficult, but we're moving on in the semi-final we're taking on Real but in the other semi-final Manchester and there is no way Haaland so if we beat Real Madrid we are gonna meet up in Madrid would get the first chance of the match what a save - no! clear! yes! how did he get that?! with just minutes left in the cut back across, to Mbappe... to Neymar! shoot! what a strike! we have a 1-0 lead in the 40th minute what - oh my oh my someone's gonna get hurt someone's gonna get hurt, Vitinha's back is broken 1-0 lead going into the second half and my initial plan was to win a corner to but it didn't go as planned... Mbappe's gone... we need to win a corner here should I just score? I'm gonna score what a goal! we have a 2-0 lead! with this two goal lead I can now risk dribbling the entire pitch with our but the first attempt was we'd actually make it past the halfway line all right we didn't manage but we have a 2-0 lead going into in the other semi-final Haaland has there is no way they're not so it's all up to us to make sure we get there and leg two would begin with me oh my days, Donnarumma! but it quickly turned ugly... no! it was so beautiful oh no... no Benzema don't do this to me but it'd be Vinicius Jr. punishing now it's half time - we still have a one goal lead we do not have a giant Donnarumma yet we got 45 minutes to figure this out but things went bad to worse he just chipped our keeper! the score was level and I was starting to worry we just can't let it get to a penalty last minute winner with Donnarumma right now is this gonna work, is this gonna work... no, no blow the whistle! okay - oh that would have been really bad we're on to extra time extra time will begin with giving Madrid a great chance to take the lead no way that's a red - there's no way that's a red luckily it wasn't a red and our wall but the threat would continue no! no no no no no no no no no no! no this can't go like this, it now we have the for sure score with Donnarumma but this late in the match we would need to score Neymar he's through... please finish! and we've tied it look at the speed! we're gonna have to use tiny but at least we have forced one alright Messi to set the tone here we're going down the middle... down the middle! well done Messi, not really okay Modric... Donnarumma make it save here son how am I supposed to get that?! Sergio Ramos don't let us down well done panenka! Benzema...oh he's gonna score on us off the post! we were so close Mbappe...please Kroos, where would Kroos go... right yes! what a save Donnarumma! Neymar... do not let us down do not let us I'm not even touching the okay if we save this - if we Vini Jr. vs mini Donnarumma we can do this, we can do this - we're in his head come here Vini... okay we just have to score it's fine if we score now, mini Vitinha if he scores, we head to the Champions we're going left... WE'RE ON TO THE FINAL! look what it means to the fans! ladies and gentlemen welcome where PSG is taking on Manchester City I'm pretty sure most of my players are but it doesn't matter we are here for and it has begun! and Man City quickly showed us why that is not the start we wanted but we kept the pressure we have a corner this is our look at him running he's so cute! its Hakimi here we go, here we go no no - you can't just we would win the ball back in our half Nuno Mendes, Nuno Mendes - what a ball! around the keeper! finish! we have another giant joining the team! this time it's Nuno Mendes the Giants would get another finish! good save should we try and score with here we go, here we go, here we go, here we go no not like that! we'd win the ball back only to give it away again no! how is that going under you you're one foot tall!? Man City now have a 2-1 lead a strong start to the second half go go go! finish! what a goal! we have tied it up! the next goal would decide the winner... five minutes left in the match Neymar, to Messi Encara-Messi Encara-Messi! and they want to get rid of it my PSG! we have the game winner! we are three minutes away from I don't think Man City have a but Man City weren't giving up they'd get we just gotta get rid of this we whoa Danilo! get it out! and there it is ! we are Champions League winners! Haaland's curse didn't stop us from winning it and if you enjoyed this video you'll enjoy this video right here PEACE:)