Every time I score a goal I can open one of these sticker and I need all the help I can get every player on my team is a goalkeeper but Alisson has scored one goal in what a goal by Alisson! let's open the first sticker pack now I've never actually let's see what awaits us we got this Scottish badge any but we have Pedri also available Jota Theate and Kala- Kalajdzic the choice is obvious we're Pedri's highest rated card is 92 rated one goal in and the team is 87 high rated players out of these packs because if by the end of this I need to wear a Madrid kit in my next one and I really don't want to do that to unlock the next sticker with Pedri Foul me here... keeper Yes! He almost broke his neck Now we just need to score panenka why is Courtois stepping up? Please do not save it... I Yes he did! let's open the second pack now we really need a player over 94 in this up first we have the Portuguese badge we can take any player from Portugal I think we all know who we're going to take Asllani McGinn and then we have a double double we're going to take any player now there are a lot of options for Portuguese team and it's Cristiano Ronaldo 3.8 million coins... get into the team how is it expired 4 million coins... get into the team Ronaldo the rating goes up to 88 and we might as well take box number seven a free kick with Cristiano attempt number one why does Courtois keep popping up here? Cristiano Ronaldo - first attempt! he cleared it off the line! come on Ronaldo put this one away, for me no! it's a great save is that enough power... please no off the crossbar! come on Ronaldo, put this one away ohhh! what a strike by Cristiano Ronaldo and he's hitting the SIUUUU let's open our next pack can someone go check up on that keeper? What is it going to be this time... Wayne Rooney, we got an icon Then we have two Finnish players, we got Christie, Barda - and we have Pavlovic and.... Wimmer I think we got to take the obvious choice Wayne Rooney an icon, Wayne Rooney's best card is only 91 rated 306,000 coins only that's and we jump up to an 89 rating and dribble past keeper, and run into the net one of my favourite challenges well done Rooney... great run cut inside, keep going yes! get in there! yes, yes he touched it in! it counts on his way down he dribbled it off his shoulder I love this challenge give him a little celly what do you got... okay well let's open the next pack we need a 94 rated player out of this pack Rico Lewis we got Pedri again, what? Nagy, Watkins, Jirka, ... and more double Estonian players I don't think Rico Lewis has a high rated card I know he has a team of the season, but I'll take a 93 and he's less than 50,000 coins, get into the team the 90 rated we go and the goal Entire pitch with Ollie Watkins all right Watkins show me what you got good start, very good start oh now back inside outside inside no! he lost it we'll go this way... run... run look at the pace where am I going to go now, [Applause] what a move! to finish! there it is! the travela right at halftime let's open the next pack what a run by Ollie Watkins first up we have the Croatian badge - any player we can take Trubin or Konoplya we got Hlozek, Dragusin I don't even know if I said that right uh-oh that's the last card I didn't think I'd have to do this... I can't remember what rating it is please just tell me it's a high-rated card... 96! what a card 2.2 million coins get into the team Luka Modric that gives us a 91 rating we are getting close but what do we need to score with him number nine a Scorpion kick luckily he's got five star skills what a touch, Luka Modric oh! what am I doing yeah - no I didn't shoot! oh this is it that's not it... that's not it go Modric... yes! yes! there's the Scorpion you know what I wasn't going to let's open the next sticker pack halfway through the squad but it's not looking we're starting with a captain, it's what is this... a bunch of Salad? Sallai? Big Ben?! how are we supposed to use Big Ben? Burca and then what is this? France I guess we're using the Czech Captain I don't even think he has he doesn't even have any special cards I do have one emergency pack first up we have Benes? who is that? Chiesa? we could use two Bosnian players... Ozkacar, then we have two Kazakhstan players and then we have Konate, let's go see who's higher rated it's not looking good for Chiesa please please Konate have a high rated card 89?! Konate did have a 92 rated card We got to take Chiesa I feel like this card is still really good, but with him joining the team the rating what goal do we need to score with him? let's go with number one... a volley - outside of the box volley come on Chiesa - flick, volley no he blocked it right here... get in! What a goal! are you serious Chiesa? what at this point there's a really have a Madrid kit on in my next video these packs are not as good as I thought up first... we have Shaqiri Does he have a high rated No we're not going to have Who's this? Noo I was hoping then we have Serbia Veljkovic and Verbic what are these packs? let's see if Shaqiri has a high rated card 85 rated is his best card - are you serious? but with the picks we got 22,000 coins for 85 rated Shaqiri oh my days hopefully that doesn't affect us too much now what do we score with Shaqiri number six - a Bicycle just like he did against Poland in the how does he not even have yes - yes! holy smokes what an animation that was last chance in the first half oh yeah never mind Shaqiri - Shaqiri YES! NO he missed! what are you doing Shaqiri? okay from here oh that's beautiful but it doesn't go in yes - yes! oh wow, that was the closest one yet this is it OHHHHHH! it actually went in! that was a perfect bicycle look at that - look at him jump let's open the next sticker pack that took so long I better not get we have the Spanish crest we that might come in handy then we have Declan Rice he definitely has a high rated card we have a picture of Scotland? and then we have... Poulsen Courtois! do we get Courtois it's between Courtois and Declan Rice why did I think Courtois had we got to get Declan Rice his Team of the Season 96 rated exactly what we need does the rating change it? it does we're up to a 92 and no he's I just need to build the team like this okay? now what do we need to score three red cards - and then we I guess I just got to start first red card let's go... Shaqiri second yellow card... get off the pitch I just got to make sure I that's has to be a red please please please please look they're defending him give him the red we have two... one more this there we go! Watkins is headed to the change room we have our three red cards... now we just you know what... Modric is so good I here we go... where's Declan Rice? Where's Declan Rice when you need him? there he is... Declan.... Finish! no way, first attempt! we have to griddy on a first attempt let's open the next sticker pack three packs left and we start off is this a signature Bernardo I- I think so that's one player, we got Asani Thomas Muller double Luxenberg we got Duda and Hojbjerg well if we're getting cards like what does he have... 91, 91 is that the best he has? 91 rated are you serious? I thought he had like a 96 rated card! what do we need to score with him? A long shot? why wasn't this at the start? now this should be the easiest challenge so far so we have a chance... Bernardo... from here why is it the weakest shot I've ever seen? I don't know why Courtois is still just go - Courtois get out from here... from here... it's in it's not in Go, go! This is it... 23rd minute put across from here well done off the post are you serious?! he's on side - he's on side, go in! how did I not score in 90 minutes? watch I'm going to score no way, like I did so many nice to be honest I could do better okay well that's a little better that I'm okay with these last two packs are so important first up I already saw it... it's the France badge then we have Croatian Eric Sow Holes Mitrovic and... is this two polish players? Szymanski and Linetty neither of these guys have high rated cards let's go get a French player now Team of the Season Mbappe get him we're only going to have 1 I think - I think we got to do it the most expensive player in the game Mbappe... get into the team it's at 93 one player remaining... one rating remaining the final box is... own goal with the highest rated card we have to score on ourselves oh no... that wasn't t-that wasn't even an own goal all right I might as well make it look nice Elastico? that's not an Elastico but it - No! Sommer scored it now?! Elastico... move! YES! I got it I almost messed up let's open the final pack why do they always get stuck on the post? the final pack to decide if I have we need a very high rated player out of this an upside down Azpilicueta two players from? Bosnia and Herzegovina Turkish player Arda Guler Isreal and then the final card... Slovanian Stojanovic Wait! there was a card left how is that even possible? does he have a high rated card? 89! we have no other choice Arda Guler is will it give us 94 or do I have to it stayed at 93 well as promised I bought the kit I hope you guys enjoyed this one and if Peace!