Hey everyone, we're back with in which I'm exposing all of the clowns at the are. In Part 1 we demonstrated that Casey Luskin In Part 2 we will address Stephen Meyer, hiding behind a thin veneer of Meyer is one of the cofounders of the DI, and "center for science and culture". As a cofounder, of the so-called "wedge document", an internal and explicitly states their religious as they chose to put Michelangelo's Creation of seriously-all-about-science-and-totally-not-about-religion religiously motivated by their own secret from the first sentence, which is a lie about being created in god's image, and then a list which quite honestly have only been possible There is the typical tripe about how without fear stealing and raping 24/7, failing to mention in the name of one god or another, and there's On the next page, there are only two governing scientific materialism", that idiotic buzzword to "replace materialistic explanations with to replace science with god. The last of these penetrate our religious, cultural, moral, and this. Religion everywhere, including government. a religious and political agenda is a sucker. result of this leak was to craft a response called teenager who got caught pulling the fire alarm. shocked and appalled by people making claims that For example, right in the second paragraph: evidence of a frightening twenty-year master but also everyday life, laws, and education." I'll spare you the details of the 18 pages of and a laugh riot, especially the parts where they heinous acts that have historically been the Anyway, as we elucidated in Part 1, the immediate religion taught in schools. This was formally 2005, in Pennsylvania. This was their first they failed miserably, as the court ruled that and the mandate was deemed unconstitutional. While taught in science class, even though it's clear as by a shift toward theocracy and a reunification leak says they can't believe they have to say it, Honest! But this too is a hollow claim. most of their funding comes in the way of enormous who in their own words, want to see "the total and who abide by "the infallibility of the Churchy McMoneybags. If the Christian want to get for their money, you have to So, with everyone up to speed on precisely what pseudoscience. What's his background? With a as a master's and PhD from Cambridge in philosophy grasp on the scientific process. But alas, his by his primary output, his books, the medium of "Signature in the Cell" attempts to argue that design. "Darwin's Doubt" says the same regarding of the God Hypothesis" recycles old talking With so much rubbish to address, I'll be focusing and demonstrating that they constitute a I'll be staying away from arguments regarding very neatly in my response to James Tour. Again, I implore you to finally check those out But for now, let's move on to the fossil record, be having a little trouble with. Here's a snippet Because what we see in the fossil record, in in biological form and structure, is the where in each case... those new biological forms forms in the lower sedimentary strata. So you usually persisting through the fossil record remaining static over long periods of time, persisting right up to the present. We don't type of organism to another that is described by of the action of his mechanism of natural Ok, so this quite nicely sets up the main strategy involves gradual change, so we should see the and we totally don't at all, so evolution is contained in the fossil record, coupled with to check and just take his word for it. There are change in the fossil record. From fish to from land mammals back to sea from early hominids to humans as we discussed in an entire semester of undergraduate study simply To pretend they don't exist is science denial, specimens for every single species that has ever a relatively rare occurrence. Some short-lived and there are undoubtedly plenty of fossils two facts which Meyer himself summarizes without bothering to acknowledge the choosing instead to lie about something called the discuss a bit later. But with the overarching lie specific claims and compare them to the scientific When asked for examples of organisms showing up There are many examples of the abrupt appearance fossil record. I wrote a book about one of the explosion, which is an event about 520 to 530 arose abruptly in the fossil record with no lower Precambrian strata. It's really dramatic. but he clearly said that the first animal This is objectively wrong not just according He points out in chapter 4 of 2013's Darwin's are known from Ediacaran strata. He is well aware This event was a diversification of animal life, explosion lasted from 530 to 520 million years state as a range rather than an approximate According to the 2011 paper "The Cambrian Success in the Early History of Animals," we occur in the latest Ediacaran, but the first and other skeletal elements of bilaterian affinity 541 to around 530 Ma", where Ma stands for Reading further, "Although many new groups have of diversification of both body fossils and A recompilation of the first occurrences of all clades) of equivalent morphologic disparity shows (by 555 Ma), with a dramatic rise over about 25 Cambrian, and continuing into the Ordovician." rapid appearance of bilaterian phyla in the early million years, lasting from 555-530 million years Meyer's book, and well before this 2021 video, he it, neither of which looks good for someone research has changed this picture substantially. A Explosion" argues that the Cambrian encompassed from 542-513 million years ago, and one of crown of the Great Ordovician Biodiversification We will elaborate on what we just said in a the dishonesty in how ID proponents portray the that is implied by its name in order to showed up in an unimaginably short period presume that this means almost instantaneous, as In actuality we can now see that we are talking brief for geologic timescales, hence the colorful long time, plenty long enough for the impressive evolutionary pressure of many animal forms Now, let's get back to the previous point dishonesty. We need to define some terminology. appeared in the Cambrian without predecessors, but the term phylum in chapter 2 of Darwin's Doubt as classification in the animal kingdom, with each blueprint, or structural body plan." 2000 paper "A critical reappraisal of the fossil this definition is problematic. Reading, "Claims types of 'body plan' features which putative to be based on an artifact of how we classify features were readily identifiable, the larger as it would be recognized to be phylogenetically relationships becomes important is likely to criticism that phyla (and other such ranks) should engender spurious comparisons between members of wordy, so to simplify, we are saying that, phyla, So, we should concern ourselves less with whether and more with whether the features they As we will see, this is definitely the case. as a "set of features plesiomorphically clade." That word plesiomorphically just refers a group but are not unique to that group. So, it also means we can't necessarily equate a phylum a body plan. For example, insects share a body arthropod body plan. All of the features shared all the features shared by insects are present This brings us to two other terms we need those being "crown" and "stem". This paper consists of the last common ancestor of all living the stem group consists of a series of entirely away from the last common ancestor of this phylum one example, trilobites, chelicerates, myriapods, but the Cambrian forms Opabinia and Anomalocaris diagnostic of the crown group, like a sclerotized Some might even call them transitional species. Cambrian have no predecessors in the Precambrian making this same claim in a PragerU video called propaganda outlet doesn't seem to be enough for to a primate, we can tell we are going to get First, the Cambrian explosion. A weird and A whole bunch of major groups of animals, what within a geological short window of time. About exhibiting prototypes of most animal body designs evidence of early ancestors. Did you catch that? It's not that shocking. Let's now properly examine Meyer's biggest and most persistent lies. This we need to see how thoroughly he contradicts real dates to about 650 million years ago in rocks from steranes, specifically ratios of certain steranes Researchers have concluded after some debate and the varieties present are indicative I'll link to the relevant studies for those but in short, researchers have tended to regard 650 million years ago as the earliest evidence the Ediacaran Period extended from 635-541 not the Cambrian, that we find the first animal the evidence of animals includes putative animal embryos. These embryos too have been the discovered in the 1990s. Interestingly, their but later studies had regarded them as potentially A recent study investigated a large number of some of them are developmentally complex enough Caveasphaera, and Helicoforamina, Acritarchs also attained some evolutionary developing conspicuous ornamentation possibly due Again, some definitions might help: aren't sponges. Sponges are the most basally ctenophores, placozoans, cnidarians, and then clades can be found in my zoology series. revealed that both sponges and ctenophores sense given that only the ocean surface Finally, 571 million years ago, we The organisms from 571-541 million years or recurrent community compositions: the the White Sea from 560-551 million years ago, It is from these assemblages that also known as Vendian biota. The affinities of taxa, are extremely important for understanding the 1940s, the mysterious Ediacarans were written Indeed, this was still the case when Wonderful Life in the late 1980s, which is they pretend his eminence in the field weighs At that time they were thought to be fungi, or lichens, while homologies with animals better technology has improved our ability to fossils has radically changed the picture. As a animals were probably dominated by deep stem-group perhaps not surprisingly, the phylogenetic fossils is not straightforward; many of them for phylogenetic placement, presenting tantalizing It has also been claimed by some, that Ediacaran communities were terrestrial rather Ediacarans like Dickinsonia were lichens. Both The terrestrial Ediacaran hypothesis "abundant data collected during decades of research by numerous international authors." Avalon assemblage, is dominated by the sessile, and Fractofusus; frond-like arboreomorphs like such as Cyclomedusa. Their affinities have to stem-animals to crown-animals. Recent stem-eumetazoans. According to a 2021 paper, elements with concurrent axially delineated in the primary developmental mode, and is form of the organism is regular and predictable. seen within the Metazoa. Algae do not display do not display the maintained differentiation in tandem with a large, multicellular no justification for considering an affinity for then arboreomorphs could also be stem-eumetazoans. quadriformis from 560 million years ago, which the same clade containing modern jellyfish. the White Sea assemblage, such as Tribrachidium, Tribrachidium is a strange organism plausibly member of the extinct phylum Trilobozoa. It was with tri-radial symmetry. Second, Dickinsonia is despite a long contentious history, ichnological, strongly in favor of stem-bilaterian affinity. Proarticulata, this conclusion applies equally discovered bilaterian from South Australia. "We find that the size and morphology of Ikaria fossil Helminthoidichnites, indicative of mobility another historically contentious fossil with More recent analyses have tended to settle the latter of which is the clade encompassing and many other familiar invertebrates. evidently, an extinction occurred at the beginning Following the extinction event, we find fossils Cloudina is a tubular, biomineralized animal that the possible remains of a digestive tract found collectively termed cloudinomorphs, have been not actually represent a single monophyletic As for Yilingia, this segmented bilaterian is the clade containing tardigrades, velvet worms, by each segment bearing three lobes, similar Namacalathus appears to support assignment as At this point, it's completely ridiculous to Precambrian. There are a host of fossils that can Cambrian, giving no support to Meyer's repeated One has to presume that Meyer is aware of most linked below, and is deliberately ignoring it. than merely pointing out the existence of animals that the evolution of Ediacaran animals follows a evolutionary principles. When the Ediacarans like the rangeomorphs, they are all soft-bodied, the first organic-walled, non-biomineralized forms Finally, around 550 million years ago, the first like Cloudina, collectively called the "small see a proliferation of trace fossils, indicative the bizarre Ediacarans perished by 541 million Swartpuntia, straggled into the early Cambrian, Since that was a lot of information, it's worth Cambrian radiations to think about just what ID for all of these organisms. Did the designer those of the Cambrian? Did the designer design piecemeal throughout the Ediacaran? Are any of Cambrian ones? Is the Precambrian Cloudina related designed organisms from non-designed? The simple to explain the Precambrian animals, or as we I repeat. There is no model. There is nothing They simply ignore all the data that contradicts is why intelligent design, truly, fundamentally, any "materalist agenda", but because it Moving forward, given all of this Precambrian understanding of the Cambrian itself? The last fizzled out in the early Cambrian, and this was biomineralized animals. As a 2016 paper argues, with innovative adaptations of active feeding biomineralized armament against predators, substrates, sexual and asexual reproduction for disturbance, and presumably high fecundity and evidence of predation in the form of boreholes in selective pressures in the terminal Ediacaran, between predators and prey. Furthermore, sedimentary deposits by living organisms, expanded cyanobacterial mats upon which Ediacaran organisms As for environmental factors, oceanic oxygen significantly lifting size restraints oxygen levels also allowed for longer food A general rule is that 10% of the is available from each trophic level to the Respiration with oxygen is the most so more oxygen means more trophic levels and more the first time we see complex ecosystems with Some researchers have pointed to modern When oxygen levels are higher, there are more would have contributed to the evolutionary arms sets the stage for the Cambrian explosion The trace fossil record of the early Cambrian as indicated by ichnotaxa, or taxa based on the latest Ediacaran are all horizontal, with the the Cambrian, along with arthropod trace fossils. 42 across the Cambrian boundary, but the deepest the substrate. This first age of the Cambrian 541-535 million years ago. The second stage lasted from 535-525 million years ago, and Bioturbation markedly increased during this time, been previously. Global ichnodiversity the Atdabanian, which lasted from 525-514 million by trace fossils was greater compared to the 514-510 million years ago and showed no increase As a 2014 paper concludes, "The is coincident with the appearance but preceded the establishment of that were ecosystem engineers of paramount role in depth and extent of bioturbation associated have triggered another diversification place during Cambrian Stage 3, and involved the Capture of organic particles by suspension feeders promoting diversification of infaunal deposit may have been ecological drivers of phase of biogenic activity, representing What this picture indicates is that a big chunk fashion over the course of about 27 million the gradual nature of this event speaks to even have firm ecological explanations for these even more apparent with the next few examples. of the Cambrian explosion as indicated by 560-513 million years ago and was dominated by and cnidarians, as well as stem-bilaterian hyoliths and tommotiids, as well as stem-molluscs comprise most of the spiralians of this period. occurred called the Sinsk extinction, and allowing the crown lineages to predominate. diversified in the second phase, which followed by the appearance of cephalopods Okay, let's regroup for a moment. I and I'm sorry to have to put you through all himself as a scholar and academic, and he is able that is unfamiliar to most people. That's how people don't know and he uses them confidently. But when you compare what he says to the no one will ever do, you can see that he's just of studies that profoundly contradict everything the Cambrian explosion, from what preceded the aftermath, perfectly matches what we expect evolution of animals where sponges, cnidarians, diversification of crown-bilaterians. This makes and again, ID proponents do not have a model Cambrian explosion. All they can do is lie about as though that would substantiate any With this information now understood, we can "Darwin's Doubt" is complete and utter garbage. with relevant expertise who reviewed the book and of course the DI had their stock responses criticizes it is a moron, or misrepresenting it's just deflection after deflection, like But this charade should be pretty transparent at followers who want any reason whatsoever without a moment's thought, and have the lowest Ok, ready to get back to the science? Moving on lies about every other era he attempts to discuss. event in the history of life. There are many. A event called the Great Ordovician Biodiversity new forms of life that come into existence. And you find the first winged insects, the the first birds, the first marine reptiles, the come into the fossil record in an event that's now And then another striking event occurs in the where there are between 15 and 17 new orders of again with no discernible connection to similar Every single one of these claims is flat out the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event, or the period following the Cambrian, which involved fauna with more specialized marine fauna that Paleozoic Era. GOBE occurred in two phases. early Ordovician, followed by a sharp increase include, among others, stromatoporoid sponges, ostracods, bryozoans, and nautiloids. In fact, the Now, there are a couple of problems for Meyer with Meyer's idea of phylum-level intelligent evolution during GOBE reveal that the radiation For the first problem, let's define some differences between clades, while "diversity" the Cambrian explosion was a radiation of diversity. Or to use Meyer's terminology, we and variations on those body plans in the a phylum equates with a body plan, but no Instead, the Ordovician saw the evolution established phyla. In some cases, we can see such as trilobites. No sign of intelligent design Continuing, as discussed previously, the second lineages underwent a radiation of their own, The transition from the Cambrian radiations included the late Cambrian as part of it. A 2020 from 497 to 467 million years ago. Then at the reducing species diversity, but this was followed other words, we see continuous natural processes Next, Meyer said the first winged insects appear could possibly mean by this. After all, arthropods includes insects and their closest six-legged Molecular clocks estimate that the common ancestor while the last common ancestor of insects lived The earliest insect fossil is a pair of mandibles 412 million years ago, which is early Devonian insect, there are no wings associated with the dates to the Carboniferous, some 324 million nested within the paraphyletic crustaceans, that fossil crustaceans are found before the first Finally, Insecta is a class of insects represent deviations not independent body plans, making his claim Of course, the major innovation of insects over flight that accompanies them. While we can out about how wings could suddenly appear, Developmental analyses of the genes involved orthologue genes called vestigial, nubbin, and meaning a purpose other than its original involved mergers between different tissues, from invention of new tissues. So, the evolution of tissues and genes, not inventing new ones. Amniotes, or tetrapods whose embryos are evolved from reptiliomorphs in the late split into the two clades Sauropsida and Synapsida The latter contains mammals and their extinct and the former contains all so-called "reptiles" which includes lizards and snakes, as well as lived in the late Permian about 259 million years And the earliest dinosauromorphs, like Asilisaurus The first dinosaurs appeared in the late such as Herrerasaurus, Eoraptor, and Saturnalia. Again, no sign of any intelligent Turtles have a good fossil record as well. The exquisitely documented in transitional fossils and Proganochelys. Next, at present the the late Jurassic, but this isn't Xiaotingia, Anchiornis, and Aurornis predate the evolution of flight in insects, the evolution bones fused to make flight easier, and flight By the way, if you want to make a creationist's are made of the same protein, keratin, simply in mutation in certain chickens causes them Moving on, "the first marine reptiles" refers to whom evolved in the early Triassic. Yet again, Though ichthyosaurs are fully aquatic, sauropsids that are related to them but do not the hupehsuchians and Cartorhynchus. Plesiosaurs pachypleurosaurs, and there are even transitional The origin of the first flowering plants and there is indeed a bit of debate around them. Bennettitales, Pentoxylales, and Gigantopteriales and fossil estimates for the origin of flowers. meeting predictions for flower evolution based on of flowers was largely about the modification sepals, petals, androecium, and gynoecium, are in my botany series if you're interested. So we've plants, all the kinds of insects, reptiles, all the organisms the DI pretends never existed? appeared in the Eocene. This is completely, that mammals nest within the larger clade of the Carboniferous. Stem-synapsid fossils are and the first crown-mammals appeared in the from 56-34 million years ago, but the crown-mammal Way, way, way off, Steve. Relatives of all marsupials, and placentals, are known from embarrassing error on his part. Or course we but he still should've done an ounce of So to finally conclude this very long section lying about an absence of transitional species opens his mouth about, and beyond this he provides design is a better model than evolution, or how Just lies and "god did it". This is a profound in particular the scientists who put and categorize these fossils, and Meyer deserves Ok my friends, now we will move on to a his second main gripe with evolution, genetics. to go over all that paleontology literature, is reference anything other than a freshman year how clueless Meyer is when he opens his mouth If the Darwinian mechanism lacks the what are called morphological innovations, the big that raises the question, well what And what we know from biology is that whenever to have new information. It's very much like in a new function. You have to provide code. You have And something very similar is true in life. you have to have new organs and tissues. But new to service those organs and tissues. For example, record in the Cambrian period had a gut. But guts are proteins, and proteins are built in accord So as you see these explosions of form in the of life, what you're also seeing therefore, is form requires biological information. Genetic And that raises the question, where did that uniform and repeated experience, which is the is that information, especially in a digital form, we're talking about a paragraph in a book, inscription, or even information embedded in and we trace it back to its ultimate source, we Well if the mutation-selection mechanism is not necessary to build new forms of life, then a It's that a mind played a role in the that's consistent with everything we know about Ok, so he does this all the time. Computers so all codes have a creator. This This is Kent Hovind level tripe. Someone created It's mind-bogglingly stupid and a dishonest about digestive organs requiring digestive enzymes that the enzymes can predate the organ, and also He's trying to pretend science is suggesting out of nowhere millions of years ago, which is Meyer is a complete dumpster fire when We know from our experience that information we're looking at a hieroglyphic inscription, or a of software code, or even information embedded in we trace it back to its source, it always comes He wants the viewer to believe that information forged by intelligence, rather than what it If nucleotides polymerize to form a nucleic for the synthesis of another molecule, it's something that exists, and it has zero watch him milk this computer analogy some more. into computer code? You'll likely mess it up, make too many changes. But if you make enough altogether. You certainly can't keep doing this There is so much wrong here. First, he "random changes" to the code, which is not He ignores both natural selection and principles when programmers allow programs to make changes to with feedback mechanisms in place, we do not evolution in action, with a gradual improvement in evolution. But more importantly in terms of are loads and loads of random changes occurring equivalent of someone getting blasted by huge and sustaining a ridiculous amount of mutations. loads of tumors and die. That's perfectly randomly and dramatically such that it doesn't Mutations crop up slowly and are selected for, be viable for any mutations to proliferate to the it's mutations AND natural selection. When we want the best strategy is to speed up nature, we use Run the cycle ten times, each time picking the enzyme. It's evolution in vitro, not design. with a feedback mechanism in place analogous This concept is not just an analogy but actually by natural selection. Stevie, do you think we If you're a computer programmer, you sections of functional code, you're gonna come up with a new program or operating system. worse than this. He frequently makes the claim Mutations degrade information. But minds mind provides a better explanation for the origin This is one of my favorite sentences Meyer what an unbelievable moron he is. "Mutations that can serve no purpose other than to capitalize toward what DNA is and how gene expression works. mean, their personal connotation with the toxic green goo. Bad, nasty mutation ooze that In reality, to anyone who remembers their 9th the nucleotide sequence of a gene. For those who tutorial on transcription and translation a gene is transcribed to generate an mRNA and any change in the sequence found in the amino acid in the protein. A different sequence of acids. That's it. For the organism, some mutations improved function by random mutation is observed both in culture and in vivo, so he would be wrong But he isn't. He said "information", again as that is separate from the DNA itself. Mutations "degrade" it, and Meyer is profoundly stupid for Unless the chemical letters in the a protein molecule will not form. has a start codon, the sequence can be protein will be produced. Astounding. ways of arranging characters that will generate generate meaningful sequences. And this applies sequences that random mutations generate. Yet capable of making stable proteins are extremely Even more astounding. He claims sequences that when in actuality, literally any sequence would There is nothing inherently "unstable" about present in the resulting mRNA so that translation Every possible three letter sequence is a codon what the sequence, a protein will be produced. no matter what the sequence of amino acids, so This "so few stable proteins" thing is an which is that very few proteins have biological because this is what he goes on to talk about. molecular biologist Douglas Axe showed that relatively short functional protein, there Of course Axe is just another DI clown, so it's It's also not a surprise that they are both of the "wow big scary numbers" game that ID 10^77 proteins would not have any function, he is tested their functionality. He has no idea what Many new sequences could have any number of other other proteins would not have this particular which is also unbelievably wrong. If a protein they would have you believe that this is the That's ridiculous. There are hundreds and most of them could be many different one random leucine to isoleucine would result in change from a hydrophobic to hydrophilic residue, slightly, and this may or may not change binding But many of the 20 amino acids are chemically no change for the protein at nearly all there is plenty of variability at virtually barring key residues in active sites. Therefore, result in a protein that carries out precisely like proof? Take any enzyme, like a polymerase and look at its sequence in different organisms. They differ from species to species, despite Let's say it again for emphasis. There are species that perform the same exact function. carries out a function, this protein is retained, years, or potentially exapted for another purpose, that we can use as molecular clocks to trace start to go off on odds of one in 10 to the 120 that they are totally clueless, and just This completes the analysis of Meyer's lies about of freshman year biology to spot. Now let's get few more sophisticated points. Let's recall how organisms more specifically. Organismal variations reproducing organisms, recombination, which occurs There are a variety of types of mutations, insertions, inversions, transpositions, and that point mutations, or a change in one base maybe he really knows so little about genetics. At recombination occur naturally, due to exogenous Any organism accumulates dozens of mutations even can affect an organism's capacity to survive promote survival and therefore reproduction, mutations have no effect. Thus, mutations will depending on their effect, and these rates can be Again, though the vast majority of mutations been detected in real-time. Perhaps the most long-term E. coli experiment where one population aerobic environment. This happened because of only activated in anaerobic conditions under the conditions, thus conferring a novel phenotype. tutorial on regulation of gene expression, but without a new gene, it is merely the new location which bestowed the organism with a novel cellular change can occur. Earlier we mentioned the point instead of scales, but even more significant ID proponents like to pretend that organs found in they are today, but in reality, one need only look to see how a slight difference in the instructions can change the way cell layers are folded as well as precisely how and in order to produce new organs whose We can even look at simple forms of extant life be. And a modern understanding of Hox genes relatively few genes coordinate the developing how a few changes in these genes can easily Meyer is equally clueless when he cites what or the idea that changes requiring multiple would take so long for those specific mutations And the waiting times problem has emerged as certain biological traits or anatomical features a single mutation might not take that long to average for a single mutation to occur, with the expected waiting times for such an event have complex adaptations or anatomical structures you're going to, by the math of population neo-Darwinian theory, you're going to have for such mutations to occur, such coordinated about three coordinated mutations the waiting into the hundreds of millions or billions for the appearance of given anatomical traits This argument ignores many obvious facts. It specific sets of mutations, which it isn't, there the way can't have any quantifiable benefit that calculations totally unreasonable, since their It implies that the changes must occur in a fashion across a population, when in fact simultaneously across the population. And it also which baselessly discounts the profound which is the mixing and matching of genotypes, of beneficial mutations, that again can be arising argument is ignorant of what evolution is and of papers from ID proponents citing this argument despite having been thoroughly discredited by whenever there is a real paper they can unfortunately, the science just isn't there. populations develop their own mutations and also known as speciation. This can or in some cases, a single generation depending on by whole genome duplication, or polyploidy, but For example, the marbled crayfish Procambarus Procambarus fallax in the 1990s due to a whole observed speciation events is another dirty secret At first, sister species are very similar to morphology, and perhaps behavior. But over the more and more pronounced. For instance, compare a genus, or multiple genera within a family. genes for new functions rather than the wholesale example. Multiple species of garter snakes within newt tetrodotoxin by developing several point Looking even more broadly to animals as a whole, by fungi, ichthyosporeans, filastereans, triple gene fusion for three genes involved Animals share with the unicellular animals have fashioned for multicellularity, such and more recently discovered, a Hedgehog homolog. animals underwent major gene duplication followed by large amounts of gene loss. Gene gain tree rather than new genes being invented scenario rather than some kind of design. the concept of "genetic information" as Meyer There are no metrics for determining how much Does a longer gene have more information than a in more processes? How much information does or an enhancer region? We can't quantify how much to an arm, but we can calculate how many mutations that biologists talk about specific genes and "information"; the word is intentionally used So that concludes a thorough assessment the fossil record and genetics. To summarize, Meyer has only one strategy. He puts forward some and from that he draws the conclusion "god did again, the premise is always false. He's and nature of the Cambrian explosion. He's He's lying about basic, freshman year The premise is always false. Furthermore, the invalid. Even if his premise were correct, and he to conclude "god did it" is not scientific, seek to figure them out. That is done through is motivated by a specific desired theological it is astounding that Meyer does not grasp this. can dress up the god of the gaps in different human knowledge, but gaps in their own personal by learning about existing science. But in The pathetic, impotent god that Meyer the one who can't seem to figure out exactly having to step in every few million years to isn't powerful enough to manufacture a mechanism This is what makes Meyer yet another apologist does he sound like he knows what he's talking grounded person? Yes. Does he sound sincere of those things? Not even a little bit. It's a a friendly tone and a message they want to hear, science. He is fully aware of all the research he around it. One could therefore say that Meyer is in that while some of his lies are blatantly 9th grade biology, some of them do require literature, an investigation he knows that not a But that's why I bring the investigation to religious or otherwise, that like Meyer is a complete fraud. And we can now safely whining in their safe little blogs about what an unqualified uncredentialed loser I unable to address anything I say with even a so thoroughly exposed and humiliated by someone So that's it, I hope you enjoyed part 2 of Discovery Institute. But don't worry, we have many