[gun banging] Steven Mason: He probably on there and not just a My name is Sergeant I'm the senior jungle instructor for Jungle Operation Training course at the Lightning Academy in I've currently been the senior instructor for two-plus years out there, and I specialize in tracking and survival. Today we're gonna be going to determine whether or not they're real. [soldier moaning] This movie is ridiculous. That guy has the inability to talk just because he's being He's like, &quot;Oh, oh, oh, oh!&quot; [laughs] [dramatic music] I would say that the only time that that would ever happen is, uh, never. A camouflage top would be better. He would have been leaving So, a lot of people, when they just think about, like, but that's actually one of Everything is so thick leaving most of your imprints from, like, your knee to your shoulder. And that's where you're and bending leaves and turning leaves and leaving scratches. So, I mean, he would have done a significant amount of that kind of stuff walking in and out of there. [man yelling] We teach a lot about water sources and the way to move about them and use them to your advantage. I don't know that we teach and shooting people with a bow So, we like to use So instead of having to walk through, for example, that jungle that would be very taxing on the body if you had to walk a significant amount of where we just teach you and move until you think and start walking, like they're doing. But I would never say where you'd have to, So if I was Rambo in this situation, I would probably be in and that way if they do start shooting, you at least have cover. But once they come to you, then that's it. That's game over. I've been put in situations in the jungle where they give you a couple days or a week worth and then they load you and they drop you off in and you have nothing besides for the next 10 to 14 days. Survival isn't what people think it is whenever they watch, like, Bear Grylls. You know, like, he's excellent at it, but he had to have gotten to that point. But you just can't go into &quot;I'm gonna survive!&quot; and then crush it. I'm gonna say a two out of 10, 10 out of 10 for awesome. Spook: Is this a double feature? [soldiers laughing] For God's sake, just lean your head back and open your mouth! Steven: That's pretty outdated. I mean, we all chuckle but when stuff actually hits the fan, your brain reverts back to, like, &quot;Oh, my gosh, I saw this stupid video, and that might save my life.&quot; So, we do teach how to collect rainwater in different types of leaves or bamboos. If you were to just tilt your you wouldn't get enough So, everyone talks So you can go three minutes without air, three days without water, three weeks without food. But that's a good thing about the jungle, there's water everywhere. There's a lot of vines inside of jungles that just are filled And if you can find those, and you have a couple quarts of water. The rule of thumb for soldiers is a quart of water an hour if you're under a heavy workload. Narrator: Your best friend is your knife. Spook: Look at that, it's getting serious. Steven: A knife is absolutely And knives are used for everything, from building your shelter with it, just using it to sharpen things, to slash things, to cut things. It has to be durable. That's why we talk about full-tang blades, meaning that the knife is instead of just being the blade and then a little bit 'Cause you need to be able and then bang a rock on it to split wood. It just needs to be used for everything. [helicopter whirring] [Dieter yelling and laughing] Even though it's right above you, you probably would forget about security and running back into the woods until it actually was And at this point he's He did exactly what we If you need to get found you'd find a big open area something that's larger than yourself so that you could be signaled. You could light a fire and then put a lot of green leaves on it. It'll create a big plume of white smoke. [helicopter whirring] That's a jungle penetrator. We actually use that Same technology from Vietnam. We're still using it today Soldier: What's your authenticator? What's your authenticator? Dieter: Rescue Dawn! Dieter: Rescue Dawn! Steven: That's very realistic. So, whenever you deploy, you have to fill out some forms, and there's a sequence of in case this scenario does happen. You even have to put, like, where your tattoos are on your body, so when you do get caught, they, you know, they're making sure they're and not someone they don't That's the thing about the jungle is that it can start within 24 hours. And you can look like this within a week, and it all depends on your skill set and how long you can survive. Like, me, I think I could I would say that the last scene, that's probably a 10 out of 10. Chris: A fake human being. Maybe I can see something I don't yet see or learn something I don't yet know. Steven: This is my absolute in any movie that's ever been produced, because this sums up what it's like to be You are just wet and miserable, and you're wondering the entire time why you made this life choice. Oliver Stone, the guy he was actually in the 25th Infantry and deployed with them to Vietnam. It's usually pretty dark inside of there. I've been in a lot of jungles where you can't even see your during night operations. Kind of looks like, you know, they have a spotlight on top of him. [mosquito buzzing] You just have to be good There's no trick to that trade. So, actually, the 25th, we were the first ones to a little bit lighter We have jungle boots that dry out quicker. [patting] Soldier: Junior, hey! Steven: I'm gonna be up scanning for every little movement or sound I can. So that keeps me up, and I think that just the fear of everything that's crawling while you're down there 50% of everything is trying to kill you, whether it be the plant life or animals. In Vietnam, they have, like, 15 different poisonous snakes, double that in poisonous spiders. And then they have tarantulas. So, yeah, you're just for what you don't want to And another thing is up on guard on this patrol, and that would never happen. [guns blasting] So, in Vietnam, the was within 5 to 10 meters. So the enemy was able but we were also able to Stealth in the jungle is paramount to probably anything else. You actually use the same things today as you did back then. So, technology has advanced a lot. So the jungle really doesn't because satellites can't The night vision can't get through there. 'Cause I was talking about how it's dark, so, night vision actually So you need a little bit of [wounded soldier screaming] So, when you get shot, if you're still in that and you haven't won the battle yet, you have to figure out kinda like he said, so that you're 'Cause you don't know if the Actually a lot of people, they don't even realize they got hit, 'cause their adrenaline's just pumping and they're just so ready for it. And then someone actually &quot;Hey, man, you know you got shot?&quot; I've personally seen that, absolutely. I would give this a 10 out of 10 just because this I've ever been in. [gun blasting] He probably should've had and not just a giant white bald head. Soldier: Keep your eye on the package. Flea: Roger that. Holding. Steven: What was accurate about this is that they put a guy, a sniper, up top who was kind of like their topside security overwatch, who was watching this scenario unfold, who had coms with them, who could say, &quot;Hey, the situation has changed. Don't go in.&quot; The fact that you have to get all the way up to the and then try to work your way that's pretty accurate. If you were gonna go an operation like that, you But also them using suppressors, that's pretty accurate. [suspenseful music] You would use hand and arm signals a lot moving around the jungle. A lot of them is just kind halt, stop, keep moving, standard stuff. You know, these, these, stuff like that. That's about it. Using rally points and pointing places saying, you know, like, &quot;Hey, this is something significant.&quot; You're gonna have communication on you. So, they have this cool-guy They even have stuff -- so you can just press on your and it still comes across on So, yeah, everything's pretty accurate, other than the face paint. I would give this a nine out of 10. [guns blasting] As soon as they made contact, they immediately rolled into the ditch and then returned fire. They got behind the nearest cover and just started returning fire. What was funny is that they were just walking kind of in a straight line across this open danger area, which wouldn't have happened. You could have done You could have bounded across it, or you could have, we where you just kind of stay on the wood line and go through, and then that way you wouldn't It is funny that he gets on the radio and just starts calling in and then rounds just start dropping. Doesn't even give a grid. Doesn't tell them where he's at. Just says, &quot;Tree line.&quot; You're in the woods, and someone's like, &quot;We're in the tree line, Dan: Pull back! Pull back! Steven: I'm not sure that the term &quot;pull back&quot; is an Army term. We would say &quot;break contact.&quot; We'd have somebody covering our fire while another group gets out of town. And then once they get to they'll turn around and start shooting, and then the next group leaves. I don't think I've ever seen a situation where someone yells, &quot;Pull back!&quot; and then everyone just starts running in the opposite direction. So, the responsibility of the leader is to command and control At no point, unless it's, should the leader of the entire patrol be picking people up He should be delegating those tasks and then relaying all and giving out guidance. I would give this a six out of 10. Blain: Come on in. Ol' Painless is waiting. [sighs] Steven: After you've been in there awhile, you can start to tell let's say a tiger isn't So you'll be able to distinguish the two. Plus, a tiger knows how to Any snap or crack you hear, you're gonna automatically especially if you think [machine gun blasting] If I had a Minigun in the jungle, I would be doing that with it. So that's about as accurate as this scene. Someone might have an M16, and they're just blasting off rounds and it's just coming out as and they would never do a magazine change, and he'll be in this firefight Yeah, some of weaponry was correct, but you would definitely this Gatling gun in the Those rounds that he had, for the amount of that would have been, So, the goal is to be as light as you can for the longest period that you can. You need to be very I would rate this a two out of 10, but a 10 out of 10 for awesome. [guns blasting] This movie is based on one of the battalions here in the 25th. It's based off 1/27 Infantry, the Wolfhounds, from And this was when they had to This is the type of terrain you'd see when you're coming out of a jungle and getting into kind of where it's just, like, a But they're trying to do a which was dumb in the first place. [grenade pin pings] [grenade exploding] Probably wouldn't have happened. Not really sure why he had Yeah, normally you won't the pin itself and the grenade still be on your body. The distance was right, the scenario was right, just the way that it was executed probably wouldn't happen in real life. Keck: I blew my butt off! I blew my butt off! Steven: This is a pretty I mean, even all the soldiers act whenever someone gets hurt. It's still just a bunch of I would give the scene a Soldier: I want you to you can get me on that mountain. [helicopters whirring] Steven: That was pretty two helicopters and an airplane on station within, like, a second of the phone call going out, or the radio transmission. And they didn't even They were, like, still talking and they were starting to shoot. So, the reason that and we decided to use is 'cause one of the only methods to truly infill and exfill is to find that one little clearing and then try to get as many so that you can push from there. The Vietnamese clearly a point that they would try to infill, and then they were dug into and then just decided to [guns blasting] Everything is pretty accurate. As soon as they hit the ground, they just started running which was pretty far away, 'cause they got dropped in This is based off a real event, Col. Harold Moore and the 1st Cav. [helicopter whirring] So, when a helicopter is coming down, their entire body is spinning and then they're kind of So you don't even know so you just don't even, you hope that you would just But as far as being in that helicopter, that's just kind of hold I would give this a 10 out of 10 because I can visualize to be in this scenario, and I just feel bad for everyone that had to go through this. [soldier yelling] So, I love this scene a lot because they're about to shoot a mortar, and they're about to do And that's not the correct And then whenever they actually hang the round and then shoot it, it immediately blasts. You see the blast. So the time of flight the same as just a regular bullet. The way a mortar works, go in the air, and then come down and hit. That's not happening in this scene. Also, I think that without a sight on there. So I'm not sure what but that wouldn't happen. There's a little tank running Somebody would have probably already tried to take that guy out. [explosion blasting] That's pretty accurate to what it is like to see a tank get shot by another tank. We had Shermans onshore at Guadalcanal, and they were just trying But that's kind of the role is just to try to flush so the ground forces can But actually, at this stage of the war, tanks weren't on ground yet. 'Cause we had just taken the beach. [guns blasting] That's also super accurate. All the weapons are pretty spot-on. The equipment was spot-on. They're shooting Thompsons, which is accurate for officers. And the officer in this This is a good scene, I would also rate this a seven out of 10. Soldier: Got the cheap Soldier: You sure that's him? Steven: This looks like I'm not sure what that is. Soldier: He's moving. Steven: You're always gonna have a spotter and then you're gonna have a sniper, and then they're gonna about, you know, distance So, he just said, &quot;Two people, go walk down a hill.&quot; Uh, [laughs] I'm not really especially since five seconds ago they were talking to each giving each other corrections. And then now they decide that they want to be You never want to give up on stealth just because of distance. [leaves rustling] First things I tell especially at nighttime, it's almost so loud that it's unbearable. So, the first night I this bird hadn't made this sound all day and I didn't know what it was, but at nighttime, I still didn't even know It just sounded like this man that was just, like, being It was just like this, &quot;Ah, ah!&quot; And I couldn't, I was And then all of the other And then it's just, it's deafening, how loud the jungle is. I would give this a seven out of 10. The biggest thing that movies is how long it actually takes to maneuver from one location to the next. You might watch a movie and it's like, they're just walking for Depending on the type of environment, you might only move a 100 meters.