Jack Bridger: With all the arguably never faced more seriously about how to align a lot of people off and you guest, John O'Nolan, has torn up that is arguably the perfect, than $7,000,000 ARR. John O'Nolan: This constant venture backed company that were dollars and the open source endless conflict between know if you've seen the last few come up again 10 years ago. people would be like, Medium because it would kill their there's been enough cycles that this movie before. I I see where Okay. You might have a point. Jack Bridger: Scaling dev tools for, like, the whole time that years. And I I don't even about why we chose Ghost, and I of indie hacker community, it default choice where everyone were just, like, use Ghost. And, perspective on and and, by the it. It's great. John O'Nolan: Love to hear. Jack Bridger: But I kind of why you think people like, how John O'Nolan: Yeah. The second blogging platform. Obviously, And, and we evolved to try and, are blogging professionally. Internet professionally. And the probably the base of our growth for the past few subscriptions. Sorry. Email along with paid subscriptions. was, we built it before Substack along and made that very two things sort of happened in suddenly popped out of nowhere Right? And, that drove an through COVID. Turns out a lot were starting blocks in sites. So that was our first we're still kind of riding that I think the creative economy and now it's calmed down, but Jack Bridger: of growth there. by Work OS. At some point, customer, and they're gonna ask That's where Workhorse comes in features out the box. Features authentication, and audit logs. They have an easy to use API and like Vercel as well as smaller Nock. So if you're looking to make yourself enterprise ready, done an episode with Michael, shares a lot of tips around landing your first enterprise you're ready for them. Thanks, podcast and back to the show. I that Ghost resonates with The fact that Ghost is open do you try to communicate that John O'Nolan: Yes. It's a you sort of get this two sided open source is, and I don't And now I think Ghost is about it. And on the other hand, understand the purpose of open code. The open source piece of it it away from you, which is what other platforms they're used to. or puts on a paywall that you pivots to a new direction and sees your content anymore. That because you you fundamentally you don't like what we do, what code, move it to a new server, it. When people when publishers angle of open source and the business and then they're not they have been with so many to resonate but it's, it's a Open source is inherently kind and explaining it is tricky. figure out better ways to tell people get it, they it and they go, oh, this is heard about this before? But up challenging to get them to to Jack Bridger: Yeah. How how have pitch it? Like, I guess is John O'Nolan: So we, we don't we source much in our marketing sometimes on Twitter or open source because we don't home page. Jack Bridger: Like, there John O'Nolan: is a GitHub link, apparently, and we don't and button on the home page, for cranky purists say, like, oh, enough. You're just using open not the case. The case is our about how Ghost is independent other platforms that they've words. We use independence. We talk organization, what that means, open source because that's kind interested in. Then there's a is full of docs and install everything. It's just one, you navigation. It's it's still and shape the message depending Right? And for the most part, are not developers, and they're information about developers, readily available. But, yeah, on who's reading is is kind of Jack Bridger: Yeah. That makes focusing on yeah. We're You can always walk away from sense of, like John O'Nolan: Yeah. Which is that message doesn't typically burned before. If you if ever publication on the internet leave ghost at any time you I don't understand what's the Right? Because unless you have, being locked into a platform or algorithm changed and feeling sunk cost fallacy about the invested, then you might hear what the disease is that it's Yeah. So it's all kinds of less. in 2024 is A lot of people have things. You know, 10 years ago, people would be like, medium because it would kill their there's been enough cycles that this movie before. I I see where this is going. And, and that's nice. Jack Bridger: Yeah. It's, it I I heard you describe, like, Quora Internet or something along John O'Nolan: Place where Yeah. Jack Bridger: A place where it's true. It's like it is things in, like, Medium now is, And, Yeah. I I can totally see Yep. One of the questions I something that a lot of dev struggle with is, you know, how are you still gonna make money? that you are basically very, someone has no obligation. They yet people like me still pay. So, yeah, what what is your take approach been? John O'Nolan: Yeah. So our model source, and then we have a As you said, you don't have to anywhere, but we've done our Ghost to make our hosting to run it. So if you don't want node installation steps or do updates kind of weekly or every It's kind of the slowest pace of Then you can use our hosting. It all happens automatically. All you need to do things like email and other libraries we integrate there's a convenience factor selling alongside the the If you can do that model, I worked really well for us. is not easy, but it it does have very consistent sustainable had in any enormous spikes or growth. It's just been very And having that, consistent how much we made this month, month makes it very easy to hire always know what your budget is, selling one off, licenses or have a really great January and makes it quite difficult to I hire someone or should I not? good month or a bad month. So I open source where there could be it, I I think it's a great can do that if you're making a You know, there there might not conceivable with that model. So not available to everyone. But it's a it's a pretty good model Jack Bridger: Yeah. And, so it for instance, me, I think I'm is or 11. It's a very good deal it the the equation is just not like, how much time it would like, the value that I get. But start getting up to, like, if don't know if you have, like, like, if you're talking to, and their monthly bill is and, like, they are very or something like that. Like, with the bigger companies? John O'Nolan: It actually companies, very often, the idea expensive team, expensive in time solving this problem versus be completely free is pretty out cheaper. The other thing imagine that self hosting would isn't. If you are setting up what GhostPro, which is our out cheap. Right? Get a, let's Cool. You're gonna be cheaper now if you want email sign up for Mailgun. And because we send 100 of really good volume discount on, that pricing to customers as get that if you're signing up the your low volume, therefore, have to manage all of that. And the thing about managing, stay online, so now someone's on emails have to get delivered and someone needs to investigate it. Now you get hacked so you get a like, a CDN and a firewall. So Ghost Pro and again volume everyone. But if you do that by expensive to to get all that set So it's probably, another saying everyone needs all of larger organization and you costs, just of of running an app it's easy to see it as just a but once you start adding in all and the email notifications and bulk, not transactional, and and from Stripe that are flying back managing scheduling, it quickly substantial piece of technical challenges I think we're gonna we actually don't want to have don't want to be hosting all of wanna grow a giant company. We have this idea of not having working at Ghost. So that could many customers. We are not gonna deal with that many customers. out making self hosting easier offload some of the market have them succeed and have them a big incentive to to try and, the moment, the convenience a lot of people a lot of people serious sites that are using a just use pro because it works Now if you're a developer, you Internet, you don't want any of host and you don't mind a month, you can self host. It absolutely fine time. There's no the self hosted option. It's the don't have, like, special to our customers. It's just a case of how many external things you have to Jack Bridger: Yeah. That makes like, actually the first time show. You know, we there'll come customers, and we we don't want And I I think you're you're ways, and, I've John O'Nolan: heard that. Jack Bridger: That's a good could you talk a bit about, Ghost is a nonprofit, and also can see that it's, like, your $600,000 or something like that John O'Nolan: Yeah. India has bit, I think, if you go over ballpark. Yeah. So when I had Ghost and, one of the great constant battle between company that was trying to make open source project, which was publishing with volunteer based, endless conflict between, the know if you've seen the last few have come up again. And so when setting up Ghost, I that could support the open conflict with it. And so the nonprofit organization that sustain its operations, but that independent. So I don't own doesn't own Ghost. We're just control, steer the ship, decide But all of the revenue that the project. It's reinvested in team, but, and funding our a profit in any given year, that It stays dedicated to the investors, shareholders, anyone Nonprofits confusing term. but it actually means no money no there are owners. Sorry. for profit. It's being built for something And there's not many nonprofit fact, I'm not sure I can name exactly our model. There's kind open source, but they don't business that funds it. It's worked remarkably well for us. And and one of the best things very clean model of, like, hey. contributing to the project. making new features for you. And things, whether they are brings a lot of goodwill. People trust that if we're motivations are to, do it for the good of the user base, the because it's gonna make me on my often is the case with, They all wanna change the world offers them a $1,000,000,000 and a Google branded product that's And then where did the world Okay. Yeah. That was the ambition was to sell. And that's There's nothing wrong with that. I wanna build something that that's shared infrastructure, that's good for good for that's that's what I want. Jack Bridger: Yeah that's very you're not thinking of doing the John O'Nolan: No we I don't I challenging for us. Is it between, nonprofit structures in not a lawyer nor an expert on little bit. And from what I can bit more malleable in terms of way that I've OpenAI has. We It's we're in Singapore, but those are a little more, strict don't allow, and I think it harder. Jack Bridger: Yeah. Yeah. That mentioned the automatic stuff, you were, I think, deputy head WordPress org. Right? Not automatic. Correct. But have some sort of opinions on on the spot, but do you have any on there? John O'Nolan: It's, it's it's of the motivations of creating we've chosen, licensed this this kind of two sided WordPress and all the trademark these things. Like, that existed started and having been on the inside, I was endlessly the way the products would get based on, you know, what Sometimes it was based on compete with. And sometimes that would be would get added and sometimes I've got Gutenberg and sometimes they'd acquire WooCommerce and WooCommerce, would get after my time, for the record, during, my time and it Mhmm. I And I think, you know, the thing. It's just more people are are becoming aware it now it's think open source projects needs integrity if they're be volunteer based and what we're seeing is you know meets community, capitalism coming coming to a real head I I really don't know how it's watching a bad movie the the the Jack Bridger: Yeah. It's a one of the things that, like, like, an example where it seems frustrated with some of the If if someone's raising venture open source project, Do you have them around, like, being able to know, build build something also, you know, pleasing John O'Nolan: Yeah. It's a I'm not sure if anyone's cracked not coming to mind. I think obvious things. The the easy way problem is, take the WordPress You know, what would make that feel better? Not as, like, messy think there's some really easy automatically be in a less relationships were cleaner, if everything to do with, the So wordpress.org, the trademark, including the commercial automatic had a a right to to service and could do all those different leadership teams. So a on each that would be solely interest, solely focused on what organizations. I think that Without that, maybe it would venture capital, but I do think longevity in, the goodwill of understanding of of the model. of who owns what and who are is difficult to reason about. Jack Bridger: Yeah. It feels maybe something that would be to kind of, like, voluntarily John O'Nolan: I don't know, man. You're right. Right? But Matt democratize publishing, get This is open source. It's for truly believe all those things, easy to hand over power. The believe all those things? That's to see at the moment because tangled work, but I don't know. If you believe those things think it's just a decision. You it. Like, I don't own anything owns trademarks, it owns the owns everything, and there's no I wish I'd hold on to one of as leverage because that's not, And, you know, I'm I don't know and maybe he has great reasons to do it. But I don't know if wanted to do it, I think he Jack Bridger: Mhmm. Yeah. Could you know, investors, you know, like, so Not so keen. To the know. It's John O'Nolan: On yeah. On the definitely, I could definitely control the board so he can That's famously. On the there's nothing really that more cleanly. Having that own the the having, a board of trustees or community elected positions, other open source projects, example. I don't think there ability to do that. I think the socially unpick at the moment. I and reason about that one, but that that would be a huge step far as I can tell. Jack Bridger: Yeah. That makes questions I wanted to ask you like, substack, and you like, Medium, and I I actually guess they've raised a lot of Yeah. How do you think about, disadvantages that you have well funded, you know, startups John O'Nolan: Yeah. That's a of 2 categories of, advantage architecture of the code bases. decentralized, that has some disadvantages. And then the other is being the architecture side, a to production a 100 times a day. marginal cost of each user is it's very low it's almost zero distributing it it's all on one Decentralized, you have none of We just don't press pro. We have databases, which is, it turns you know, one up until a certain shot it and do all these things 1000 different domain names we broadly, you know, 100 of everyone that's not hosting. And know, like, oh, what's the big It's just different domain on a callback URL to a OAuth, the standard, which has centralized architecture. And evolved in terms of APIs and centralization as a given. And when you're building a run-in all these domains, all these different instances of the that the building blocks of the optimized for that use case build is in some way harder we want to do an update, we have have to go and NPM install that happen. We don't have access to logs on there's bugs. Obviously, we do closely. But all the engineering for a decentralized app than a funding side, it's it's really the things that you can afford venture dollars down the toilet. plan. They can burn $1,000,000 a attracts mass attention. Right? product, good concept, and you and lots and lots of people are door. And so you can afford to popular enough that, some of pain plan or you kind of hit enough you become a brand that you flip that into a business the Facebook play to some We can't afford to do that. We we can burn through every month. plan. We can't pay a bunch of another thing subsector is they So you see us they announce like Subsect now and you think, wow, They're famous if they're using decision making individual must product to use and determine yeah. It's that or it's the over and set up a new site. So levers, which is definitely an can't do. Trying to think if there's a advantage we have. I think so being decentralized and open customization. So any limit to the 3rd party code you it's gonna impact all other Whereas we can have fully custom deep features and customizations as they get bigger. Beginners things, but once people start Internet, they often, start centralized platforms, closed they tend to have a harder time, scale where you can do some of way. That's much more of a that was a lot. Those are all the things popped Jack Bridger: Yeah. That makes one one stupid question. If you 1,000,000 of dollars in the bank use Ghost, who would you want to John O'Nolan: Oh, that's a great even let me stew on that one, you at the Jack Bridger: Yeah. Yeah. John O'Nolan: That's true. As a Jack Bridger: If you suddenly dollars, is there anything that guess the free plan is is is one this money. John O'Nolan: What would we the free plan. But I might do it free plan in the form of funding people rather than just having a Mhmm. There's a lot of places is like massively struggling. everyone's angry with the media outrage nonsense that drives And the reason they do that is went away. They used to make they make what I think less than decades ago. And that's because advertising dollars, the more what's happened is the lack of the fabric of journalism as a industry. But when journalism works well, clickbait and out clickbait and communities. It's helping people Yeah. You know, with their neighbors community. Like, what's need to know about? Who is who national level, but in the live in. Who's making decisions decisions and who should we vote There's having more informed generally a good thing. Yeah. funding it. And at the moment, we're trying to fix with Ghost, subscriptions is to have a sustainable. Your readers pay In doing so, you must deliver otherwise, they'll cancel. It back to the model it used to all accounts seem to work a lot So so the long winded way of original question which is, if I around, I would probably try and news organizations to start up, sustainable. Because the state media is distracting themselves news outlets have been steadily years to the point where there's total news deserts, which is to newspaper. There's simply no one covering The only thing you can you can stuff, but all of the issues you that actually make a life, blackout. No information. term we would love to solve. And today, I'd get a head start. Jack Bridger: Yeah. Yeah. This admit, you know, I I've been like, years now, and I didn't for, like, you know, it's it's a Skinny DevTools blog. So it's learn about about you, and and I one of in case I've also no I've spoken to who has this, know, much bigger than yourself, know, getting the Lamborghini. It's about, you know, you've the Internet better, make it's great, and thank you so one user of the Internet. Thank great. John O'Nolan: I've I appreciate answer to your previous I could throw money at someone Thompson. Ben Thompson's like was the original one who who who subscriptions on a newsletter business model can work. So he's like the I I say he's combinator. Ben Thompson is to on the Internet. The problem is that you could buy Ben very well from, his publication. To the extent that I don't think Jack Bridger: Yeah. You need a they'll be like, why are you John O'Nolan: Yeah. And why why Rogan got from Spotify? Explain. Yeah. Yeah. Jack Bridger: Okay. What one for you, John. What one is, if someone getting started, what John O'Nolan: I think it's it's this point but just just ship should. Cut your feature set in know, Pete level says all these being an evangelist for for but just do things, and they small. You know? Ghost started I wasn't I didn't set out to set out to get a blog post idea, the form of a blog post, and I be very interesting interested. MVP of the products. The MVP of idea and seeing if anyone cared. if that blog post got 10 page not have been a good thing to to building and getting going But because there was that much signal of, alright. This is investing time in. It it took whatever idea you have, if project, I think just keep smallest version of it and ship And the smallest version of it here's my idea. Does anyone then it's right up. But the the what I need to I need to people to like it. I don't want them to hate it. there, and so just relentlessly something out the door, I think, can do. Jack Bridger: That's great And, if anyone is interested in should check out, Indie Hacker's interview with you in 2017. It's My final question is, are there tools that you're really excited John O'Nolan: I mean, you know, like everyone else. Doesn't been doing cursor and Claude. interesting answer probably to I'm more of a designer in a part. Hannah, my cofounder is operation when it comes to were getting going getting off But the the most interesting whatever the tool and so maybe front end developers of your person who knows a little bit person who knows a lot doesn't code side projects myself that work, that is not something I excites me no end. I can sit and a code editor and I can ship my design and front end skills back end database and a deploy what I'm able to do has grown so I've been excited by this for abating that's kind of my my at the moment but I know great answers are shit but if you stuff and it lets you do some of and again like if I could get where people actually care about hire a great developer to come that that problem solves itself. Jack Bridger: Yeah. It aligns point about shifting fast. John O'Nolan: Yeah. Jack Bridger: Yeah. Amazing. really appreciate you coming on, Ghost if they're thinking of a You can check out Scaling Dev like. John O'Nolan: Absolutely. Thanks Jack Bridger: Thanks, John.