The Philippines is an archipelago in the Pacific It sits on a subduction zone in the Ring of Pacific, and is the source of a great deal to Alaska to California. This geologic history has made the islands must deal with the destructive potential of Of the 7000 islands, only about 1000 have one square mile in size. The archipelago is split into three island Mindanao is the southernmost group, the Visayas named for the largest island in the group The island of Luzon is the most populated The earliest trace of Homo sapiens sapiens, years ago. They were preceded by earlier hominids: Homo Luzon, is dated to approximately 134,000 years erectus on the islands as far back as 700,000 The ancestors of the modern native population BCE, having migrated from Taiwan, other nearby They were Austronesian, meaning they belonged across Maritime Southeast Asia and reached Austronesian is the parent language of Malay/Indonesian, islands in the South Pacific. Early settlements in the Philippines tended isolated by geography. Because of this, they did not develop an overarching communities via intermarriage and other kinship Trade between and amongst the islands and BCE, evidenced by Philippine Jade artifacts metal goods produced using techniques common These objects, along with ideas and the people Jade Road, a massively extensive trade network years, until 1000 CE. The last fifteen hundred years of this era the Philippine islands and the nearby area. This is evidenced in part by the trade itself, finds of human bones that show evidence of Such evidence, however, may simply have not Written Philippine history begins around 900 The earliest document is the Laguna Copperplate of a debt. By this time, the people of the archipelago units called barangays. These are akin to a city-state and could be hundred. Some of these came together in confederacies the rulers of the allied polities, called In areas that had greater contact with the rajah; later, in areas that had adopted Islam, Society within these barangays was organized the ruling class, next the freemen, the Maharlika, with subcategories to specify a person's The early cultures of the Philippines practiced have a spirit that must be attended in order Ancestor worship was also included in this, aspect of animals and vice versa. Magic and witchcraft were widely believed these could be highly respected and/or greatly Filipinos were introduced to Buddhism and CE. The archaeological record and documents found barangays and islands owed tribute to the state that controlled the maritime trade in centuries. Their influence was followed by that of the on the island of Java. Both Buddhism and Hinduism influenced the was made easier by the language connections Indian Sanskrit. Islam first arrived in the Philippines via He accompanied merchants and preached Sunni He is also credited with building the first He was followed a decade later by the Indonesian set up the Sulu sultanate. In the early fifteenth century, the Chinese in the Philippines... This history of the Philippines is generally Most of the information we have on the centuries through the chronicles and histories of other Some of these are in passing, or only noted more of their story can be told. The oldest documented barangay is Tondo, a in the modern Manila Bay. They were associated with the nearby Maynila, they shared monopolies on trade across Southeast This trade was sufficiently important to the Ming Dynasty, a governor was appointed to In fact, most of the documented information era comes from records of other countries China provides the most extensive of these, Japan, Champa, India, and others. This kingdom had declined by the early 16th The Luzon were the local peoples around Tondo, Brunei to assert themselves. They were a militaristic culture who were Indonesia, and mainland Asia, sometimes under as individuals and groups acting as mercenaries. Another largely documented state is the Sultanate pre-existed the introduction of Islam and In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, people archipelago in the Mindanao section of the They established their state and were known the people of Champa, on the Indonesian peninsula, There was a short war between the Sulu and trade was normalized again, shortly before In the thirteenth century, according to Chinese the Bruneian Sultanate, along with Ma-i and Little else is said except that they regained They had certainly done so by the early fifteenth converted to Islam and was independently ruling Sometime before the eleventh century, the of Mindanao. It was a mixed kingdom, with the majority practicing Buddhism. They were known for their expertise with gold well as the various kingdoms of the Indochina There were other major independent polities They had separate agreements for trade with influences from them. The Caboloan barangay was greatly influenced the styles of both, as did cultural norms Other polities, like Mar-i and Pulilu, were There is also evidence of conflict between and towns on the Chinese coastline, instigated In the decades prior to European contact, Philippines. They started with Tondo and Manila Bay with Chinese trade of certain goods. They were successful, establishing Selurong, vassal state in 1500. Their leader, Sultan Bolkiah married into thereby connecting those two powers. The first contact between the people of the the Spanish expedition to circumnavigate the Magellan, stopped there. They anchored off Suluan Island, in the central Magellan planted the Spanish flag, calling The next day, they landed at nearby Homonhon of the Cebu and Limasawa peoples. Their leader, the Raja Humabon, spoke at length to Catholicism. Spanish priests in the expedition baptized In the tradition of taking a new or additional in honor of King Charles I of Spain; his wife mother, Joanna, daughter of the Catholic Monarchs, The Raja then ordered the people of the nearby them with supplies, and convert to Catholicism. His level of influence is shown by the fact the Church. However, Datu Lapulapu, one of the chiefs Very little is known about him prior to these influence in the area. He rejected the idea of conversion and also from sending gifts to Magellan. This prompted Humabon and Zula to suggest visit, which Magellan saw as an opportunity to work in alliance with, the local peoples. On 27 April 1521, Magellan and his force landed spears, rocks, and arrows. This initial attack was more demoralizing Offshore, the Spanish saw this attack and were too far away to have an effect. Magellan's next move was to push toward the houses. This gave even more force behind the Mactan arrow to the leg, and many of his people were By the account of his chronicler, Antonio which allowed a few of the Spanish to escape. Lapulapu also made a point of killing all attack. This did not include Raja Humabon and Datu the Spanish, they stayed away. The Raja did try to ransom the body of the any of his offers. Seeing the attitudes of his fellows, Humabon so far as to kill some of the Spanish soldiers The expedition continued on its way, returning first circumnavigation of the Earth. It was four decades before the Spanish or territory...