Take me into your arms and say Everything's all right And take me into your eyes and tell me (mouse clicking) (video rewinding) (upbeat music) (harmonica) - Oh, that's cool. (applause) Once upon a time you dressed so fine Threw the bums a dime in your prime Didn't you? People call say beware You thought they were all kidding you You used to laugh about Everybody that was hangin' out Now you don't talk so loud Now you don't seem so proud About having to be scrounging around For your next meal How does it feel? How does it feel? To be on your own? Like a complete unknown? - I like it. Like a rolling stone. (harmonica) - Yes, what's your name? - I'm Sam. I'm Sam, I'm 13, and I'm from Lewisham. I play guitar all the time really. I really enjoy it, it's and performing is also really fun. I fairly recently got So being able to tell thinking about, what's - [Andrew] Sam loves enjoy it so much, that's a real pleasure. (happy music) - [Sam] My family have - We are on top of the world. - [Sam] When I was nine, we the three highest mountains in (mumbles) - [Andrew] It was a great thing to do, that was the year my wife We did lots of things that I'm glad we did, because we (piano) So Sam was 10 when his mum and she was ill for two And then there was a very rare (sad music) And she died, 15 months ago now. (sad music) Sam and his sister have been amazing in coping with the loss of their mother. It's an awful thing to You know, we were a good team of four, and now I think we're a good (triumphant music) Sam sang a song at her funeral. And I said to him then, you can do anything. It won't be any harder than that day. Enjoy it, sweetheart. Love you. Like a rolling stone (harmonica) To be without a home Like a complete unknown Like a rolling stone (cheering) - Woo. - How long have you been - Almost a year now, so. - Whoa, how long have you been singing? - I started playing guitar and then singing after that. I started playing - So you play the guitar, you - Yeah. - Yo. (applause) - Do you write your own songs? - Yeah. - Do you have something - I don't have my guitar on me now. - I have my guitar back - Oh no this is cool. (applause) - (mumbles) I've got an acoustic. - I mean them two are meant to be. (guitar and harmonica) The tweety bird he told me so He gave you up, you should have known But now you're meant to (mumbles) You can make the decision on your own (guitar) So take me into your arms and say Everything's all right And take me into your eyes and tell me I'm not out of sight yet A losing battle for both sides Everyone has lost some lives You thought that you were being brave Your dignity would it save Now all you've served is your family One less wait - Did he write this himself? - Yeah. I lay in bed to think about All the things you didn't shout You didn't laugh or cry or beg You didn't try to pull my leg But you wouldn't listen at all When I said - Here we go Take me into your arms and say Everything's all right And take me into your eyes and tell me I'm not out of sight yet (applause) - Thank you very much. - [Will.i.am] I wouldn't think that articulate and able to and form it in a sentence like that. Takes a very experienced soul. - Amazing talent, man. (applause) - So now you choose who (piano) - I think I'll go with Danny. (cheering) - I was really impressed at the blinds, this is You are my one team that I feel I can give the biggest challenge to. And if you get it right, it could be epic. For me this is my biggest risk, I want you so good (piano) I've actually never had a (singing) I know it's crazy and it's but crazy's good. And I believe in you three, believe in this idea as and change the song, because I'm sticking with my gut instincts of how I visualize the end goal. I have put literally all my I'm working, and learn in their own way. I don't know whether I've set need to prove to me and prove to everyone, prove to themselves they deserve (upbeat music) Pressure pushing down on me Pressing down on you No man ask for Under pressure That burns buildings down Splits families in two Puts people on streets It's the terror of knowing Watching some good friends Pray tomorrow takes me higher Pressure on people People on streets Turned away from it Sat on a fence but it don't work Keep coming up with love Why Why Why Insanity laughs under Can't we give ourselves Why can't we give love Why can't we give love Give love Give love Give love Give love Give love - You guys totally rocked it, You couldn't have given it any - I thought it was amazing. What we just witnessed there was the biggest test of your careers. I put my trust in you, and you came back and you worked on it. That is an amazing testament (applause) Caring about ourselves This is our last dance This our last dance This is ourselves Under pressure Under pressure Under pressure (upbeat music) - [Emma] Danny, who's - [Danny] I have to go with someone that has something a little bit deeper. And that's Sam. (applause) From the moment I could talk - The song Dan gave me was I'm really close with my dad, emotion from that, and just - I don't think I've ever met you the way that Sam does when You can't coach pure passion. (upbeat music) - You must be so proud. - I am really proud of him, yeah. - He just seems like such a natural. - He came on this without - [Danny] Amazing. - It's all from inside him, yeah. - Which is great. I think the only thing that'll too emotional with it, Do your thing, but channel something, whether it's just singing to your dad or forget everything, or whatever it is. Because you have the power - [Sam] When I'm performing my mum, my sister, and just everyone who means something to me. I hope I make everyone proud. (guitar) It's not time to make a change Just relax, take it easy You're still young, that's your fault There's so much you have to know But take your time, think a lot Why, think of everything you've got For you will still be here tomorrow But your dreams may not How can I try to explain When I do it turns away again It's always been the same Same old story From the moment I could talk I was ordered to listen Now there's a way And I know - A lot of sing is that sing, but it's a lot harder to sing and feel. You're very, very, very special. (applause) Keeping all the things I knew inside It's hard, but it's If they were right, I'd agree But it's them they know, not me There's a way And I know that I have to go away I know I have to go (applause) (upbeat music) - Now you're in the final. Let's try and find you something to sing, let's try and make you who Why don't you do your own song? - Yeah, that sounds good. - That song for me was so powerful. - To me I guess it's - [Andrew] Sam's mum, he and had a special talent keen for him to carry on. She was sorry -- (piano) I think the last thing don't feel bad about being Wherever she is, I hope that - [Danny] Sam is already writing about some of the hardest things. So sad when you talk about it, isn't it? He lost his mum. I want this to be the best song The Voice Kids has ever seen. Can we work on it, make - Sounds good, yeah, I'm up for that. - [Danny] I've brought make the most perfect final song we can. He's my best mate, please - Hey mate. - Hello mate. - Nice to meet you. - You too. - [Sam] When Tom walked - I think what you've got is - Thanks. - [Tom] Could we hear the song? I'd like to tell you after all - [Danny] The song was almost perfect. All I think we need is to I'll come out and say Na na na na - [Sam] I was playing with which is, that's amazing isn't it? - [Danny] This song is to his mum, so -- - That's the power of music isn't it? You get to say the things and you do it through your song. I'd like to tell you after all I spoke with the lizards on the wall They didn't tell me nothing new And nothing I knew wasn't true They told me all the You do So take me into your arms and say Everything's all right And take me into your eyes and tell me I'm not out of sight yet What do you want What will you get Is the time for death already set What do you need What do you have Is there anything you truly love By the end of life when we have had Enough So take me into your arms and say Everything's all right And take me into your eyes and tell me I'm not out of sight yet No I'm not out of sight yet Na na na na na Na na na na na No, no I'm not out of sight yet (cheering) - It's so amazing to see your talent and really hard into your music for you to help yourself heal and move, you know? I can't explain like how proud I feel sitting front row at And Danny, I just want to say like, I think you guys together have and I really hope that it just to make incredible songs, 'cause -- - Pixie. - Even if I can't, if I don't I feel every word that you sing and it just comes from a different place. And for a kid to be able I don't know how it's possible. That's such a mature thing I just believed every single word, and I think you're very special. Hey Jude Don't make it bad Take a sad song and make it better Remember to let her into your heart Then you can start to make it better Hey Jude Don't be afraid You were made to go out and get her The minute you let her under your skin Then you begin to make it better - Sing it, Sam. And anytime you feel the pain Hey Jude, refrain Don't carry the world For well you know that it's a fool Who plays it cool By making his world a little colder (happy music) Hey Jude Don't let me down You have found her Now go and get her Remember to let her into your heart Then you can start To make it better, better, better Na na na na na na na Na na na na Hey Jude Jude, Jude, Judey, Judey, Judey Na na na na na na na na Na na na na Hey Jude (guitar) (cheering) - [Emma] I can now announce that the winner of The Voice Kids 2019 is -- (suspenseful music) (cheering) Sam. (cheering) - [Emma] Sam Congratulations you're the Of The Voice Kids 2019 (triumphant music) (ominous sounds)