This is LEGO food. This is LEGO dressed as very own LEGO bricks that are made out So here's the "new" series of and as always there just has to be one cosplaying comments named Garret. Underneath his costume, and a sign making it painfully obvious what we'll based on the sign and a TON of your suggestions, the 24-Ville Farmers Market! Except there's a out of real life food will directly determine he'll be rich, but if we fail, it could mean So I speedran to the grocery store all the ingredients we'll need to cook up the so I got to work preparing some carrots for we can carve a stud on top and a hole into slices to make about 10 more, and... they're they don't stay together, so you could build a I even tried making a 1x2 brick using a longer are the same size as each other because I have so the top slice will obviously Garret tried his best to sell this garbage, but we're gonna have to do better than that if 24-Ville Farmers Market. We've got and I built this leafy archway entrance to go. I am super excited about this city and all but for now, it's time to meet Garret's first His little cart has everything and people are buying them like I got a pack of "Old Fashioned Natural Casing boiled some water to gently place them in, and 1x2 bricks, 1x3, 4, 5, 6, even 1x7 bricks. The so I just turned my remaining dogs into a whatever this is. They even work with the carrot Garret upgraded his stand into a cart for no the crowds flock to buy Franklin's sausages has arrived: Capricorn, the corn salesman. And It's CORN a big lump with If anyone knows a better way to do this I am got our cobs now, and they're almost impossible because 1: it's delicious, and 2: softening them into corn bricks. Surprisingly so I built up CASTLE CRUNCH out of all my pieces kind of floats. But thankfully, the boat that also bringing everyone from our previous city including his son: Cornelius! They've got an attracting tons of customers, and you know what it without everything disintegrating, and the maybe it's not the product he copies, but it's foolproof. I even got some real ones to try too small to do anything with, so I just made a References aside, I really missed having a train build a new train for it in the future, but for which brought Garret his very first be the Pepper Costume Fan we're naming stand even has FIRE and a small 22-Tube So, I got some hot peppers that look just like obviously hollow, that really limited what WE'RE NOT DOING THAT AGAIN. Yeah this isn't mushrooms alongside the Forest Elf Elwood and for these, and 30 minutes and one plumber later my didn't leave mushroom for error, so I decided to For some reason these... "LEGO" items aren't flying Garret installed, and... *italian horn* oh no, with his food truck and professional chefs Pancho And that can only mean one thing: "Pizza Time." I'm cutting it into square LEGO plates! Bricks were clearly out of flat pieces in our arsenal to give Castle Crunch these stands have kind of been thrown willy-nilly everything and marking off plots for future stands market with plenty of studs for customers to the middle with a picnic table they can sit at and Garret suddenly decided what he really needed just using this LEGO City set for now, but we'll especially since these things aren't selling. He it's reserved for even more competition: Willy all sorts of delicious and lucrative desserts. So I got all these rubber molds to try something down and pour it into these things to create that we can carve cute little faces into. "Dah success yet, and the molds can also work as ice to make Jello blocks too, but results are mixed. incredible, and you've probably all seen this give it a try anyway, and now we've got bricks Except no one wants to buy desserts so Garret tried giving out free samples, but that to look more like Willy and Wonka's, but that he and his son just pushed it into the river and has been in Garret's family for generations, but The heck did he come from? This is Chuck the but his new establishment, "Brick-fil-A" keep trying. He sells chicken (obviously) and this weird egg he found in the desert. be terrible, BUT he's closed on Sundays, Comment below which came first? The chicken or But I love how accurate the LEGO piece and a spot to hold it. Trying to actually make but at least my dog really appreciated have over 100 different ways to cook, so even I can poach them to get that perfect Garret waited patiently until Sunday, then this point the merchandise was getting a little help him recover. He dressed up his son and I terrorizing the entire market until... *shing* The cotton tail before revealing her true identity bamboo roof made with a bunch of these flex I'm not crazy enough to try to split peas into stuff, I decided to just go through a smorgasbord costumes (yet). Apples work amazingly, I built a this is like a lizard? Peeled grapes were kinda surprised they don't make pumpkin spice LEGO Cherries made an excellent Gary the snail, inner Cheesy Studios turning this block of cheese To make his stand a little more "zen", Garret studs for water. It actually brought in a huge to watch the water fall. Speaking of which, I've so I ordered a ton of these Big Ugly a massive cliff across the table. This creates a waterfall we'll have to build at some point got some spare electronics to get it up and But as cool as this is, there's still and the train also brings with it Garret's arch who have a tropical cabana stand. "I'm bananas watermelon level in Mario Sunshine with a on top. I was originally going to use this but this sticker, if we cut it They're going in the sandy corner here, lined up so they can buy some extremely carvable great for Mario kart, and great for making Watermelons even have enough mass to make 2x2 the castle. And as all the customers file it hasn't been the best day. all the ideas he's tried and tried and "I'll take your entire stock." Unless? *chh LEGO was a bad idea. But Garret's and the food mascots always have