- [Reader] &quot;The Kybalion: &quot;A Study Of The Hermetic Philosophy &quot;of Ancient Egypt and Greece&quot;, by Three Initiates. &quot;The lips of wisdom are closed, &quot;except to the ears of understanding.&quot; Originally published by the Masonic Temple, Chicago, This recording is a production copyright 2021, Master Key Society. To Hermes Trismegistus, known by the ancient Egyptians as, &quot;The Great Great,&quot; and, &quot;Master of Masters,&quot; this little volume of Hermetic teachings is reverently dedicated. Introduction. We take great pleasure in of students and investigators of the secret doctrines this little work based upon the world There has been so little notwithstanding the countless references to the teachings in the that the many earnest searchers will doubtless welcome the appearance of this present volume. The purpose of this work of any special philosophy or doctrine, but rather is to give to the students a statement of the truth that will serve to reconcile the many that they may have acquired, but which are apparently and which often serve to discourage and disgust the beginner in the study. Our intent is not to erect but rather to place in the hands with which he may open in the temple of mystery through the main portals There is no portion of possessed by the world which have been so closely guarded as the fragments of the Hermetic teachings which have come down to us over the tens of centuries since the lifetime of its great founder, Hermes Trismegistus, who dwelt in old Egypt in the days when the present race of Contemporary with Abraham, and, if the legends be true, an instructor of that venerable sage, Hermes was, and is, the great central sun of occultism, whose rays have served to which have been All the fundamental and in the esoteric teachings of every race may be traced back to Hermes. Even the most ancient have their roots in the From the land of the Ganges many advanced occultists and sat at the feet of the master. From him they obtained the master key which explained and reconciled and thus the secret doctrine From other lands also all of whom regarded Hermes and his influence was so great, that in spite of the many on the part of the centuries of teachers in these different lands, there may still be found a certain basic resemblance and correspondence which underlies the many and entertained and taught by the occultists of these different lands today. The student of comparative religions will be able to perceive the influence of the Hermetic teachings in every religion worthy of whether it be a dead religion or one in full vigor in our own times. There is always a certain correspondence in spite of the contradictory features, and the Hermetic teachings The lifework of Hermes seems of planting the great seed truth which has grown and blossomed rather than to establish which would dominate the world's thought. But, nevertheless, the original truths taught by him have been kept intact in their original purity who, refusing great numbers of half developed students and followers, followed the Hermetic custom for the few who were ready From lip to ear, the truth has been handed There have always been a few in the various lands of the earth, who kept alive the sacred flame and such have always been to re-light the lesser when the light of truth grew dim, and clouded by reason of neglect, and when the wicks became There were always a few to tend faithfully the altar of the truth, upon which was kept alight the perpetual lamp of wisdom. These men devoted their which the poet has so &quot;O, let not the flame die out. &quot;Cherished age after &quot;in its holy temples cherished. &quot;Fed by pure ministers of love, &quot;let not the flame die out.&quot; These men have never nor numbers of followers. They are indifferent to these things. For they know how few there who are ready for the truth, or who would recognize it if it were presented to them. They reserve the strong meat for men, while others furnish the milk for babes. They reserve their pearls who recognize their value and who wear them in their crowns, instead of casting them before the materialistic vulgar swine, who would trample them in the mud and mix them with their But still these men have the original teachings of Hermes, regarding the passing to those ready to receive it, which teaching is stated &quot;Where fall the footsteps of the master, &quot;the ears of those ready and again, &quot;When the ears of &quot;then cometh the lips to But their customary attitude has always been strictly in accordance with the other Hermetic aphorism, also in The Kybalion, &quot;The lips of wisdom are closed, &quot;except to the ears of understanding.&quot; There are those who have criticized this attitude of the Hermetists, and who have claimed that the proper spirit in their policy of seclusion and reticence. But a moment's glance back will show the wisdom of the masters, who knew the folly of attempting to teach to the world that which or willing to receive. The Hermetists have never and have instead sat silently aside with a pitying smile on their closed lips while the heathen raged noisily about them in their customary amusement and torture the honest who imagined that they of barbarians the truth only by the elect who had And the spirit of persecution has not as yet died out in the land. There are certain Hermetic teachings, which, if publicly promulgated, would bring down upon the teachers a great cry of scorn and who would again raise the In this little work, we have endeavored to give you an idea of the fundamental striving to give you leaving you to apply them yourselves, rather than attempting to work If you are a true student, you will be able to work out If not, then you must For otherwise, the Hermetic teachings will be as words, words, words to you. The Three Initiates. Chapter I. The Hermetic Philosophy. &quot;The lips of wisdom are closed, &quot;except to the ears of From old Egypt have come the fundamental esoteric and occult teachings which have so strongly influenced the philosophies of all for several thousand years. Egypt, the home of the was the birthplace of the hidden wisdom and mystic teachings. From her secret doctrine India, Persia, Chaldea, Medea, China, Japan, Assyria, ancient Greece and Rome, and other ancient countries partook liberally at which the hierophants and so freely provided for to partake of the great store of mystic and occult lore which the masterminds of that ancient land In ancient Egypt dwelt the who have never been surpassed, and who seldom have been that have taken their processional flight since the days of the Great Hermes. In Egypt was located the great lodge of lodges of the mystics. At the doors of her temples, entered the neophytes, who afterward, as hierophants, adepts, and masters, traveled to the four corners of the earth, carrying with them the precious knowledge which they were ready, anxious, and willing to pass on to those who were ready to receive the same. All students of the that they owe to these venerable masters of that ancient land. But among these great there once dwelt one of &quot;The Master of Masters.&quot; This man, if man indeed he was, dwelt in Egypt in the earliest days. He was known as Hermes Trismegistus. He was the father of the occult wisdom, the founder of astrology, the discoverer of alchemy. The details of his life owing to the lapse of the years, though several of the ancient countries disputed with each other in their claims to the honor of having and this thousands of years ago. The date of his sojourn in Egypt, in that, his last incarnation on this planet, is not now known, but it has been fixed at the early days of the oldest dynasties of Egypt, long before the days of Moses. The best authorities regard him as a contemporary of Abraham, and some of the Jewish as to claim that Abraham of his mystic knowledge As the years rolled by after his passing from this plane of life, tradition recording that he the Egyptians deified Hermes and made him one of their gods under the name of Thoth. Years after, the people of ancient Greece also made him one of their many gods calling him Hermes, the God of Wisdom. The Egyptians revered his yes, tens of centuries, calling him the scribe of the gods, and bestowing upon him distinctively his ancient title Trismegistus, which means The Thrice Great, The Great-Great, The Greatest-Great, et cetera. In all the ancient lands, the name of Hermes The name being synonymous Even to this day we use the term Hermetic in the sense of secret, sealed so that nothing and this by reason of the fact that the followers of Hermes always observed the principle They did not believe in but rather held to the meat for strong men, both of which maxims are familiar to readers of the Christian scriptures, but both of which had for centuries before the Christian era. And this policy of careful has always characterized the Hermetics, even unto the present day. The Hermetic teachings are among all religions, but never identified with nor with any particular religious sect. This because of the warning against allowing the secret doctrine to become crystallized into a creed. The wisdom of this caution is apparent to all students of history. The ancient occultism of and was largely lost, owing to the fact that the and so mixed theology with the philosophy. The result being that the has been gradually lost superstition, cults, creeds, and gods. So it was with ancient Greece and Rome. So it was with the Hermetic teachings of the gnostics and early Christians, which were lost at the whose iron hand smothered philosophy with the blanket of theology, losing to the Christian Church that which was its very and causing it to grope before it found the way the indications apparent in this 20th century being struggling to get back to But there were always a few faithful souls who kept alive the flame, and not allowing its light and thanks to these staunch we have the truth still with us. But it is not found in It has been passed along from initiate to hierophant, from lip to ear. When it was written down at all, its meaning was veiled in so that only those possessing This was made necessary in of the theologians of the Middle Ages, who fought the secret stake, gibbet, and cross. Even to this day there will be found but few reliable books on Although there are in many books written on And yet, the Hermetic philosophy which will open all the doors In the early days, there was a compilation of passed on from teacher to student, which was known as The Kybalion, the exact significance having been lost for several centuries. This teaching, however, is known to many to whom it has descended from mouth to ear on and on Its precepts have never been so far as we know. It was merely a collection of which were non-understandable but which were readily after the axioms, maxims, and and exemplified by the Hermetic initiates to their neophytes. These teachings really of the art of Hermetic alchemy, which, contrary to the general belief, dealt in the mastery of mental forces, rather than material elements, the transmutation of one kind of mental vibrations into others, instead of the changing of one The legends of the philosopher's stone, which would turn base metal into gold, was an allegory relating readily understood by all In this little book, of which this is the first lesson, we invite our students to examine into the Hermetic teachings as set forth in The Kybalion, and as explained by ourselves, humble students of the teachings, who while bearing the title of Initiates, are still students at the We herein give you many of the of The Kybalion and illustrations which the teachings more easily comprehended by the modern student, particularly as the original text is purposely veiled in obscure terms. The original maxims, axioms, and precepts of The Kybalion are printed the proper credit being given. Our own work is printed in the body of the work. We trust that the many students to whom we now offer this little work will derive as much benefit as have the many who have gone on before, treading the same path to that have passed since the the Master of Masters, the Great-Great. In the words of The Kybalion, &quot;Where fall the footsteps of the Master, &quot;the ears of those ready The Kybalion. &quot;When the ears of the &quot;then cometh lips to The Kybalion. So that according to the teachings, the passage of this book to those ready for the instruction will as are prepared to receive the teaching, and, likewise, when the pupil then will this little Such is the law, the Hermetic principle in its aspect of the law of attraction, will bring lips and ear together, pupil and book in company. So mote it be. Chapter II. The Seven Hermetic Principles. &quot;The principles of truth are seven. &quot;He who knows these understandingly, &quot;possesses the magic &quot;all the doors of the temple The seven Hermetic principles upon which the entire Hermetic philosophy One: The principle of mentalism. Two: The principle of correspondence. Three: The principle of vibration. Four: The principle of polarity. Five: The principle of rhythm. Six: The principle of cause and effect. Seven: The principle of gender. These seven principles will as we proceed with these lessons. A short explanation of each, however, may as well be given at this point. One: The principle of mentalism. &quot;The all is mind. &quot;The universe is mental,&quot; The Kybalion. This principle embodies It explains that The All, which is the substantial reality underlying all the outward manifestations and appearances which we the material universe, the phenomena of life, matter, energy, and, in short, all that is apparent to our which in itself is but which may be considered and thought of as a universal, infinite, living mind. It also explains that or universe is simply a subject to the laws of created things, and that the universe as a whole, and in its parts or units, has its existence in the mind of The All, in which mind we live and This principle by establishing the mental nature of the universe, easily explains all of the varied mental and psychic phenomena that occupy such a large portion of and which without such explanation, are non-understandable and An understanding of this of mentalism enables the the laws of the mental universe and to apply the same to his The Hermetic student is enabled to apply intelligently the great mental laws, instead of using them With the master key in his possession, the student may unlock the many doors of the mental and psychic and enter the same This principle explains the true nature of energy, power, and matter, and why and how all these are subordinate to the mastery of mind. One of the old Hermetic &quot;He who grasps the truth &quot;of the mental nature of the universe &quot;is well advanced on the path to mastery,&quot; and these words are as true today as at the time they were first written. Without this master key, and the student knocks in vain at the many doors of the temple. Two: The principle of correspondence &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above,&quot; The Kybalion. This principle embodies the truth that there is always a correspondence between the laws and phenomena of the various planes of being and life. The old Hermetic axiom ran in these words, &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above,&quot; and the grasping of this principle gives one the means of and hidden secret of nature. There are planes beyond our knowing, but when we apply the principle of correspondence to them, we are able to understand much that would otherwise be unknowable to us. This principle is of universal application and manifestation, on the various planes and spiritual universe. It is a universal law. The ancient Hermetists as one of the most by which man was able to which hid from view the unknown. Its use even tore aside the veil of Isis to the extent that a glimpse of the face of the goddess might be caught. Just as a knowledge of enables man to measure distant while seated in his observatory, so, a knowledge of the enables man to reason intelligently from the known to the unknown. Studying the monad, he understands the archangel. Three: The principle of vibration &quot;Nothing rests. &quot;Everything moves. &quot;Everything vibrates,&quot; The Kybalion. This principle embodies the truth that everything is in motion. Everything vibrates. Nothing is at rest. Facts which modern science endorses, and which each new scientific And yet this Hermetic principle was enunciated thousands of years ago, by the masters of ancient Egypt. This principle explains between different manifestations of matter, energy, mind, and even spirit result largely from From The All, which is pure spirit, down to the grossest form of matter, all is in vibration. The higher the vibration, the higher the position in the scale. The vibration of spirit is at such an infinite rate of that it is practically at rest, just as a rapidly moving And at the other end of the scale, there are gross forms of matter whose vibrations are so Between these poles, there are millions upon millions of varying degrees of vibration. From corpuscle and electron, atom and molecule, to worlds and universes, everything is in vibratory motion. This is also true on the which are but varying and also on the mental planes, whose states depend upon vibrations, and even on to the spiritual planes. An understanding of this principle, with the appropriate formulas, enables Hermetic students to control their own mental vibrations The masters also apply conquering of natural &quot;He who understands the &quot;has grasped the scepter of power,&quot; says one of the old writers. Four: The principle of polarity. &quot;Everything is dual. &quot;Everything has poles. &quot;Everything has its pair of opposites. &quot;Like and unlike are the same. &quot;Opposites are identical in nature, &quot;but different in degree. &quot;Extremes meet. &quot;All truths are but half truths. &quot;All paradoxes may be This principle embodies the Everything has two poles. Everything has its pair of opposites. All of which were old Hermetic axioms. It explains the old paradoxes that have perplexed so many, which have been stated as follows, &quot;Thesis and antithesis &quot;but different in degree. &quot;Opposites are the same &quot;differing only in degree. &quot;The pairs of opposites may be reconciled. &quot;Extremes meet. &quot;Everything is and isn't at the same time. &quot;All truths are but half truths. &quot;Every truth is half false. &quot;There are two sides to everything,&quot; et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. It explains that in everything there are two poles or opposite aspects, and that opposites are really only the two extremes of the same thing, with many varying degrees between them. To illustrate, heat and cold, although opposites, are The differences consisting merely of degrees of the same thing. Look at your thermometer and see if you can discover where heat terminates and cold begins. There is no such thing as The two terms heat and cold simply indicate varying and that same thing which is merely a form, variety, So heat and cold are simply the two poles of that which we call heat, and the phenomena attendant thereupon, are manifestations of the The same principle manifests in the case of light and darkness, which are the same thing. The difference consisting between the two poles of the phenomena. Where does darkness leave What is the difference Between hard and soft? Between black and white? Between sharp and dull? Between noise and quiet? Between high and low? Between positive and negative? The principle of polarity and no other principle can supersede it. The same principle operates Let us take a radical and extreme example. That of love and hate. Two mental states apparently and yet there are degrees and a middle point in which we use the terms like or dislike, which shade into each other so gradually that sometimes we are at a loss to know whether we like or dislike or neither. And all are simply as you will see if you And, more than this, and considered of more it is possible to change to the vibrations of and in the minds of others. Many of you who read these lines have had personal experiences of the involuntary rapid and the reverse in your own And you will therefore of this being accomplished by means of the Hermetic formulas. Good and evil are but the and the Hermetists understands evil into good by means of an application of the principle of polarity. In short, the art of polarization becomes a phase of mental alchemy known and practiced by the ancient and modern Hermetic masters. An understanding of the principle will enable one to as well as that of others, if he will devote the time and study necessary to master the art. Five: The principle of rhythm. &quot;Everything flows out and in. &quot;Everything has its tides. &quot;All things rise and fall. &quot;The pendulum-swing &quot;The measure of the swing to the right &quot;is the measure of the swing to the left. &quot;Rhythm compensates,&quot; The Kybalion. This principle embodies the truth that in everything there is manifested a measured motion to and a swing backward and forward, a pendulum like movement, a tide like ebb and flow, a high tide and low tide which exist in accordance with the principle of polarity described a moment ago. There is always an action and a reaction, an advance and a retreat, a rising and a sinking. This is in the affairs of the universe, suns, worlds, men, animals, This law is manifest in the creation and destruction of worlds, in the rise and fall of nations, in the life of all things, and finally in the mental states of man, and it is with this latter the understanding of the The Hermetists have finding its universal application, and have also discovered certain means to overcome its effects in themselves by the use of the appropriate They apply the mental They cannot annul the principle or cause it to cease its operation, but they have learned how to escape its effects upon themselves depending upon the They have learned how to use it, instead of being used by it. In this and similar methods, consist the art of the Hermetists. The master of Hermetics polarizes himself at the point at which he desires to rest, and then neutralizes the which would tend to carry All individuals who have attained do this to a certain degree, more or less unconsciously, but the master does this consciously, and by the use of his will, and attains a degree of almost impossible of belief who are swung backward and This principle and that of polarity have been closely studied and the methods of and using them form an important part of the Hermetic mental alchemy. Six: The principle of cause and effect. &quot;Every cause has its effect. &quot;Every effect has its cause. &quot;Everything happens according to law. &quot;Chance is but a name &quot;There are many planes of causation, &quot;but nothing escapes This principle embodies the fact that there is a cause for every effect, an effect from every cause. It explains that, everything happens according to law. That nothing ever merely happens. That there is no such thing as chance. That while there are various the higher dominating the lower planes, still nothing ever The Hermetists understand of rising above the ordinary to a certain degree, and by mentally rising to a higher plane, they become causers instead of effects. The masses of people are carried along, obedient to environment, the wills and desires of others heredity, suggestion, moving them about like pawns But the masters rising to the plane above, dominate their moods, characters, as well as the environment and become movers instead of pawns. They help to play the game of life instead of being played and moved about by other wills and environment. They use the principle The masters obey the causation but they help to rule on their own plane. In this statement there is condensed a wealth of Hermetic knowledge. Let him read who can. Seven: The principle of gender. &quot;Gender is in everything. &quot;Everything has its masculine &quot;Gender manifests on all This principle embodies the truth that there is gender The masculine and feminine This is true not only but of the mental and On the physical plane, the principle manifests as sex. On the higher planes but the principle is ever the same. No creation, physical, is possible without this principle. An understanding of its on many a subject that has The principle of gender of generation, regeneration, and creation. Everything and every person contains the two elements or principles, or this great principle Every male thing has Every female contains If you would understand the philosophy of mental and spiritual creation, generation and re-generation, you must understand and study It contains the solution We caution you that this principle has no reference to the and degrading lustful theories, which are taught under fanciful titles, and which are a prostitution of the great natural principle of gender. Such base revivals of the ancient infamous forms of phallicism tend to ruin mind, body, and soul, and the Hermetic philosophy has ever sounded the warning note against these degraded teachings which tend toward lust, licentiousness, and perversion of nature's principles. If you seek such teachings, you must go elsewhere for them. Hermeticism contains nothing &quot;To the pure, all things are pure. &quot;To the base, all things are base.&quot; Chapter III. Mental Transmutation. &quot;Mind as well as metals and &quot;from state to state, degree to degree, &quot;condition to condition, pole to pole, &quot;vibration to vibration. &quot;True Hermetic transmutation As we have stated, the Hermetists were the original alchemists, astrologers, Hermes having been the founder From astrology has grown modern astronomy. From alchemy has grown modern chemistry. From the mystic psychology has grown the modern psychology of the schools. But it must not be supposed that the ancients were ignorant of that which the modern schools suppose to be their exclusive The records engraved on show conclusively that the ancients had a full comprehensive the very building of the between their design and the Nor were they ignorant of chemistry. For the fragments of the they were acquainted with the In fact, the ancient theories regarding physics are by the latest discoveries notably those relating to Nor must it be supposed of the so-called modern On the contrary, the Egyptians were especially skilled in particularly in the branches but which, nevertheless, under the name of psychic science, which is perplexing the and making them reluctantly admit that there may be something in it after all. The truth is, that beneath the material chemistry, that is, the psychology in the ancients possessed a knowledge of transcendental of transcendental of transcendental psychology, They possessed the inner knowledge as well as the outer knowledge, the latter alone being Among the many secret possessed by the Hermetists, was that known as mental transmutation, which forms the subject Transmutation is a term the ancient art of the particularly of the base metals into gold. The word transmute means, &quot;To change from one &quot;into another, to transform,&quot; Webster. And accordingly, mental transmutation means the art of changing and transforming mental states, forms, and So you may see that mental transmutation is the art of mental chemistry, if you like the term a form of But this means far more Transmutation, alchemy, or is important enough in and if the art stopped there, it would still be one of the most important branches of study known to man. But this is only the beginning. Let us see why. The first of the seven Hermetic principles is the principle of mentalism, the axiom of which is, &quot;The all is mind. &quot;The universe is mental,&quot; which means that the underlying reality of the universe is mind, and the universe itself is mental. That is, existing in the mind of The All. We shall consider this but let us see the effect of the principle if it be assumed to be true. If the universe is mental in its nature, then mental transmutation must be the art of changing the conditions of the universe along the lines of So you see, therefore, that mental transmutation is really the magic of had so much to say in their mystical works and about which they gave so If all be mental, then to transmute mental conditions the controller of material conditions, as well as those ordinarily called mental. As a matter of fact, none but advanced mental to attain the degree of power necessary to control the grosser such as the control of the production or cessation of tempests, the production and and other great physical phenomena. But that such men have is a matter of earnest belief to all advanced occultists of all schools. That the masters exist the best teachers assure their students having had experiences which justify them in such belief and statements. These masters do not make public exhibitions of their powers, but seek seclusion from the crowds of men in order to better work their may along the path of attainment. We mention their existence, at this point, merely to call your attention to the fact that their power is entirely mental, and operates along the lines of the higher mental transmutation, under the Hermetic principle of mentalism, &quot;The universe is mental,&quot; The Kybalion. But students and Hermetists of lesser degree than and teachers are able to freely work along the mental plane in mental transmutation. In fact, all that we mental influence, mental science, new thought phenomena, et cetera, operates along the same general lines. For there is but one principle involved no matter by what name The student and practitioner works among the mental plane, transmuting mental into others according to various formulas more or less efficacious. The various treatments, of the schools of mental often quite imperfect and The majority of modern practitioners are quite ignorant compared for they lack the fundamental knowledge upon which the work is based. Not only may the mental states, et cetera, of one's self be changed or but also the states of others may be, and are constantly usually unconsciously, but often consciously by some understanding of in cases where the people of the principles of self-protection. And more than this, as many students and practitioners of modern mental science know, every material condition of other people may be changed with the earnest desire, of person desiring changed The public are so generally informed regarding these things at present, that we do not deem it necessary to mention the same at length, our purpose at this point the Hermetic principle and art underlying all of these various forms of practice, good and evil. For the force can be used in opposite directions according to the In this little book we shall state the basic principles of that all who read may grasp and thus possess the master key that will unlock the many doors of the principle of polarity. We shall now proceed to a consideration of the first of the the principle of mentalism, in which is explained the &quot;The universe is mental,&quot; in the words of The Kybalion. We ask the close attention, and careful study of this great principle on the part of our students. For it is really the basic principle of the whole Hermetic philosophy, and of the Hermetic art Chapter IV. The All. &quot;Under and back of the universe &quot;is ever to be found &quot;the fundamental truth,&quot; The Kybalion. Substance means that which underlies all outward manifestations, the essence, the essential reality, the thing in itself, et cetera. Substantial means actually existing, being the essential element, Reality means the state of valid, fixed, permanent, Under and behind all outward there must always be This is the law. Man considering the universe sees nothing but change in matter, forces, and mental states. He sees that nothing really is, but that everything is Nothing stands still. Everything is being born, growing, dying. The very instant a thing it begins to decline. The law of rhythm is There is no reality, enduring quality, fixity, or substantiality, in anything. Nothing is permanent but change. He sees all things and resolving into other things a constant action and reaction, inflow and outflow, building up and tearing down, creation and destruction, birth, growth, and death. Nothing endures but change. And if he be a thinking man, he realizes that all of must be but outward of some underlying power, All thinkers in all lands and in all times have assumed the necessity for postulating the existence of this substantial reality. All philosophies worthy of the name have been based upon this thought. Men have given to this Some have called it by the term Others have called it The Others have tried to call it Matter, but all have acknowledged its existence. It is self-evident. It needs no argument. In these lessons we have of some of the world's greatest thinkers, both ancient and modern, and have called this underlying power this substantial reality by which term we consider of the many terms applied by man to that which transcends names and terms. We accept and teach the view of the great Hermetic thinkers of all times, as well as of those illumined souls who have reached higher planes of being, both of whom assert that the inner nature of The All is unknowable. This must be so, for naught by The All itself can comprehend its own nature and being. The Hermetists believe and is and must ever be unknowable. They regard all the theories, of the theologians and metaphysicians regarding the inner nature of The All, as but the childish to grasp the secret of the infinite. Such efforts have always from the very nature of the task. One pursuing such inquiries travels around and around until he is lost to all sane and is utterly unfitted He is like the squirrel which frantically runs around and around the circling treadmill wheel of his cage. Traveling ever and yet reaching nowhere. At the end a prisoner still, and standing just where he started. And still more presumptuous are those who attempt to ascribe to qualities, properties, characteristics, and attributes of themselves. Ascribing to The All the human emotions, feelings, and characteristics, even down to the pettiest such as jealousy, susceptibility desire for offerings and worship, and all the other survivals from the days of the Such ideas are not worthy and are rapidly being discarded. At this point, it may be that we make a distinction between philosophy and metaphysics. Religion to us means that intuitional realization of and one's relationship to it. While theology means the personality, qualities, Their theories regarding its affairs, will, desires, plans, and designs, and their assumption of between The All and the people. Philosophy to us means the inquiry after knowledge of things While metaphysics means the attempt to carry the inquiry over and into regions and with the same tendency And consequently, both mean to us things having roots in reality. While theology and metaphysics rooted in the quicksands of but the most insecure support We do not insist upon our students accepting these definitions. We mention them merely At any rate, you shall hear very little about theology and &quot;That which is the fundamental truth, &quot;the substantial reality &quot;but the wise men call it &quot;In its essence, The All is &quot;But, the report of reason &quot;and treated with respect,&quot; The Kybalion. The human reason, whose reports we must accept informs us as follows regarding The All, and that without attempting to remove the veil of the unknowable. One: The All must be all that really is. There can be nothing else The All would not be the all. Two: The All must be infinite. For there is nothing else to define, confine, bound, limit, It must be infinite in time or eternal. It must have always continuously existed, for there is nothing else and something can never And if it had ever not it would not be now. It must continuously exist forever. For there is nothing to destroy it, and it can never not be even for a moment, because something can It must be infinite in space. It must be everywhere. For there is no place outside of The All. It cannot be otherwise without break, cessation, For there is nothing to break, separate, or interrupt its continuity, and nothing with which It must be infinite in power or absolute. For there is nothing to limit, restrict, restrain, confine, It is subject to no other power. For there is no other power. Three: The All must be immutable, or not subject to change For there is nothing to Nothing into which it could change, nor from which it could have changed. It cannot be added to nor subtracted from, increased nor diminished, nor become greater or lesser It must have always been, and must always remain The All there has never been, is not now, and never will be anything The All being infinite, absolute, it must follow that anything and conditioned cannot be The All. And as there is nothing then any and all such finite things must be as nothing in reality. Now do not become befogged nor frightened. We are not trying to lead you into the Christian Science field under cover of Hermetic philosophy. There is a reconciliation of this, apparently contradictory, Be patient. We will reach it in time. We see around us that which forms the physical Is The All merely matter? Not at all. Matter cannot manifest life or mind, and as life and mind are The All cannot be matter. For nothing rises higher Nothing is ever manifested in an effect that is not in the cause. Nothing is evolved as a consequent that is not involved as an antecedent. And then modern science informs us that there is really no That what we call matter is merely interrupted energy or force. That is, energy or force As a recent writer has said, &quot;Matter has melted into mystery.&quot; Even material science has and now rests on the basis of energy. Then is The All mere energy or force? Not energy or force as the For their energy and force devoid of life or mind. Life and mind can never evolve from blind energy or force for the reason given a moment ago. Nothing can rise higher than its source. Nothing is evolved unless it is involved. Nothing manifests in the effect And so The All cannot For, if it were, then there would be no such things as life and mind in existence, and we know better than that. For we are alive and using mind to consider this very question, and so are those who claim that energy or force is everything. What is there then higher that we know to be Life and mind. Life and mind in all their Then, you ask, &quot;Do you mean to tell us that Yes and no is our answer. If you mean life and mind as we poor petty mortals The All is not that. &quot;But what kind of life and The answer is living mind as far above that which As life and mind are higher than mechanical forces or matter. Infinite living mind as compared to finite life and mind. We mean that which the when they reverently The All is infinite living mind. The illumined call it spirit. Chapter V. The Mental Universe. &quot;The Universe is mental, &quot;held in the mind of The All is spirit. But what is spirit? This question cannot be answered, for the reason that its definition is practically that of The All, which cannot be explained or defined. Spirit is simply a name that men give to the highest conception It means the real essence. It means living mind, as much superior to life as the latter are superior to Spirit transcends our understanding, and we use the term or speak of The All. For the purposes of we are justified in thinking of spirit, as infinite living mind. At the same time acknowledging that we cannot fully understand it. We must either do this or stop thinking of the matter at all. Let us now proceed to a consideration of the nature of the universe, as a whole and in its parts. What is the universe? We have seen that there can Then is the universe The All? No, this cannot be, because the universe seems and is constantly changing, and in other ways it does not measure up to the ideas that we are compelled to accept regarding The All, as stated in our last lesson. Then if the universe be not The All, then it must be nothing, such is the inevitable conclusion of the mind at first thought. But this will not satisfy the question, for we are sensible of the Then if the universe is neither The All, nor nothing, what can it be? Let us examine this question. If the universe exists it must proceed in some way from The All. It must be a creation of The All. But as something can from what could The All have created it. Some philosophers have by saying that The All created That is, from the being But this will not do. For The All cannot be subtracted from, nor divided, as we have seen, and then again if this be so, would not each particle in the universe be aware of its being The All. The All could not lose nor actually become an or lowly living thing. Some men indeed realizing and also recognizing that have jumped to the conclusion that they and The All were identical and they have filled the air to the amusement of the multitude and the sorrow of sages. The claim of the corpuscle would be modest in comparison. But what indeed is the not yet created by The All having separated itself into fragments? What else can it be? Of what else can it be made? This is the great question. Let us examine it carefully. We find here that the see Lesson One, comes to our aid here. The old Hermetic axiom, may be pressed into service at this point. Let us endeavor to get a on higher planes by The principle of correspondence as well as to other problems. Let us see. On his own plane of being Well, first, he may create by making something out But this will not do. For there are no materials with which it may create. Well, then, secondly, man procreates or reproduces his kind by the process of begetting, which is self-multiplication accomplished by transferring a portion of his substance to his offspring. But this will not do, because The All cannot transfer or subtract a portion of itself. Nor can it reproduce or multiply itself. In the first place, there and in the second case a multiplication or addition to The All. Both thoughts being an absurdity. Is there no third way Yes, there is. He creates mentally, and in so doing he uses nor does he reproduce himself, and yet his spirit pervades Following the principle of correspondence, we are justified in creates the universe to the process whereby And here is where the report of reason tallies precisely with the as shown by their teachings and writings. Such are the teachings of the wise men. Such was the teaching of Hermes. The All can create in no without either using material, or else reproducing itself, There is no escape from this which, as we have said, agrees with the highest Just as you, student, may create a universe of your own in your mentality, so does The All create But your universe is the mental whereas that of The All is The two are similar in kind, but infinitely different in degree. We shall examine more of creation and But this is the point to fix The universe and all it contains is a mental creation of The All. Verily indeed, all is mind. &quot;The All creates in its infinite &quot;which exist for eons of time, &quot;and yet, to The All, &quot;the creation, development, decline, &quot;and death of a million universes &quot;is as the time of the twinkling &quot;The infinite mind of The All The Kybalion. The principle of gender, see Lesson One, and other lessons to follow is manifested on all planes of life, material, mental and spiritual. But, as we have said before, gender does not mean sex. Sex is merely a material Gender means relating to And whenever anything on any plane, the principle And this is true even in Now do not jump to the conclusion that we are teaching that there is a male and female God or Creator. That idea is merely a distortion of the ancient teachings on the subject. The true teaching is that The All, in itself, is above gender as it is above every other law, including those of time and space. It is the law from which the laws proceed, and it is not subject to them. But when The All manifests on the plane of generation or creation, then it acts according for it is moving on a And consequently it manifests in its masculine and feminine aspects on the mental plane, of course. This idea may seem who hear it for the first time, but you have all really in your everyday conceptions. You speak of the fatherhood of God, and the motherhood of nature, of God, the Divine Father, and nature, the Universal Mother, and have thus instinctively acknowledged the principle of gender in the universe. Is this not so? But, the Hermetic teaching does not imply a real duality. The All is one. The two aspects are merely The teaching is that manifested by The All stands, in a way, apart from the actual mental It projects its will toward which may be called nature. Whereupon the latter of the evolution of the universe from simple centers of activity onto man, and then on and on still higher, all according to well-established and firmly enforced laws of nature. If you prefer the old figures of thought, you may think of the masculine and of the feminine principle as nature, the universal mother, from whose womb all things have been born. This is more than a mere It is an idea of the actual process of the creation of the universe. But always remember and that in its infinite mind the universe is generated, It may help you to get the proper idea, if you will apply the to yourself and your own mind. You know that the part in a sense, stands apart, and witnesses the creation of mental images in your own mind. The part of your mind in which the mental generation is accomplished may be called the me in which stands apart and the thoughts, ideas, and images of the me. As above, so below, remember, and the phenomena of one to solve the riddles of Is it any wonder that you the child feel that instinctive which feeling we call religion, that respect and reverence Is it any wonder that, when you consider the works you are overcome with a mighty feeling which has its roots away It is the mother mind that you are pressing close up Do not make the mistake of supposing that the little world you which is a mere grain is the universe itself. There are millions upon millions and there are millions of in existence within the And even in our own little solar system, there are regions and planes and beings compared to are as the slimy life forms that dwell on the ocean's There are beings with higher than man has ever and yet these beings were and you will be even as they &quot;For such is the destiny of man,&quot; as reported by the illumined. And death is not real, even in the relative sense. It is but birth to a new life, and you shall go on, and on, and on, to higher and still higher planes of life for eons upon eons of time. The universe is your home, and you shall explore before the end of time. You are dwelling in the and your possibilities and both in time and space. And at the end of the grand cycle of eons, when The All shall draw back into itself all of its creations, you will go gladly. for you will then be able to know the whole truth of being Such is the report of the illumined, those who have advanced And, in the meantime, You are safe and protected by the infinite power of &quot;Within the father-mother mind, &quot;mortal children are &quot;There is not one who is fatherless, nor motherless in the Chapter VI. The Divine Paradox. &quot;The half wise, recognizing &quot;of the universe, imagine &quot;Such are vain and presumptuous fools, &quot;and they are broken against the rocks &quot;and torn asunder by the elements &quot;by reason of their folly. &quot;The truly wise knowing &quot;use law against laws, the &quot;and by the art of alchemy transmute &quot;that which is undesirable &quot;and thus triumph. &quot;Mastery consists not in abnormal dreams, &quot;visions, and fantastic &quot;but in using the higher &quot;escaping the pains of the lower planes &quot;by vibrating on the higher. &quot;Transmutation not presumptuous denial &quot;is the weapon of the This is the paradox of the universe, resulting from the principle of polarity which manifests when The Hearken to it. For it points the difference While to The Infinite All, the universe, its laws, its are as things witnessed in the Yet to all that is finite, the universe must be treated as real, and life, and action, and thought, must be based thereupon, accordingly. Although with an ever understanding of the higher truth, each according to its own plane and laws. Were The All to imagine that the universe were indeed reality, then woe to the universe. For there would be then no escape from lower to higher divineward. Then would the universe become a fixity and progress would become impossible. And if man, owing to half wisdom, acts and lives and thinks of the universe as merely a dream, akin then indeed does it so become for him, and like a sleepwalker, he stumbles ever around making no progress, and being forced into an awakening at last by his falling over the natural laws which he ignored. Keep your mind ever on the star, but let your eyes watch lest you fall into the mire Remember the divine paradox, that while the universe Remember ever the two poles of truth, the absolute and the relative. Beware of half truths. What Hermetists know as the law of paradox is an aspect of the principle of polarity. The Hermetic writings are to the appearance of the of the problems of life and being. The teachers are constantly against the error of omitting the other side of any question. And their warnings are to the problems of the which perplex all students of philosophy, and which cause so many to what is generally And we caution all students the divine paradox of the lest they become entangled in With this in view, this particular lesson has been written. Read it carefully. The first thought that after he realizes the is a mental creation of The All, is that the universe is a mere illusion, an unreality, against which idea his instincts revolt. But this, like all other great truths, must be considered both from the absolute and the relative points of view. From the absolute viewpoint, of course, the universe is in the a dream, a phantasmagoria, as compared to The All in itself. We recognize this even For we speak of the that comes and goes, is born and dies. For the element of finiteness and unsubstantiality, must ever be connected with when it is contrasted no matter what may be our beliefs concerning the nature of both. Philosopher, metaphysician, scientist, and theologian all agree upon this idea, and the thought is found in all forms of philosophical thought as well as in the theories of the respective schools of So, the Hermetic teachings do not preach the unsubstantiality of the than those more familiar to you. Although, their may seem somewhat more startling. Anything that has a must be, in a sense, unreal and untrue, and the universe comes under the rule, in all schools of thought. From the absolute point of view, there is nothing real except The All, no matter what terms we or discussing the subject. Whether the universe be created of matter, or whether it be a mental it is unsubstantial, non-enduring, a thing of time, space, and change. We want you to realize before you pass judgment of the mental nature of the universe. Think over any and all and see whether this be not true of them. But the absolute point of of the picture the other Absolute truth has been defined as, &quot;Things as the mind of God knows them,&quot; while relative truth is, &quot;Things as the highest reason And so while to The All, the universe must be a mere dream or result of meditation. Nevertheless, to the finite minds forming a part of that universe, and viewing it through mortal faculties, the universe is very real indeed, and must be so considered. In recognizing the absolute view, we must not make the mistake of ignoring or denying the facts and as they present themselves We are not The All, remember. To take familiar illustrations, we all recognize the fact that We will fare badly if we do not. And yet, even our finite minds understand the scientific dictum thing as matter from a That which we call matter is held to be merely an which atoms themselves are merely a grouping of units of force, called electrons or ions, vibrating and in constant circular motion. We kick a stone and we feel the impact. It seems to be real. Notwithstanding that we know it to be merely what we have stated above. But remember that our foot, which feels the impact is likewise matter, so and for that matter so are our brains. And, at the best, if it were not by reason of our mind, we would not know the Then again, the ideal of which he is endeavoring to seems very real to him, so do the characters in the which he seeks to express so And if this be true in the what must be the degree of reality in the mental images created Oh, friends, to mortals is very real indeed. It is the only one we can ever know, though we rise from plane to plane, higher and higher in it. To know it otherwise by actual experience, we must be The All itself. It is true that the higher the nearer to the mind The more apparent becomes the illusory nature of finite things, but not until The All finally does the vision actually vanish. So, we need not dwell upon Rather let us, recognizing the seek to understand its mental laws, and endeavor to use in our upward progress through life, as we travel from plane to plane of being. The laws of the universe because of the mental nature. All, except The All, are bound by them. What's in the infinite mind of The All is real in a degree second which is vested in the nature of The All. So, do not feel insecure or afraid. We are all held firmly in and there is naught to There is no power outside So we may rest calm and secure. There is a world of comfort and security in this realization when once attained. Then calm and peaceful do we sleep, rocked in the cradle of the deep resting safely on the bosom of the ocean of infinite In The All, indeed, &quot;Do we live and move and have our being.&quot; Matter is none the less matter to us, while we dwell on the plane of matter, although we know it to be merely an aggregation of electrons, or particles of force vibrating rapidly and in the formations of atoms. The atoms in turn vibrating which latter in turn form Nor does matter become less matter, when we follow the inquiry still further, and learn from the Hermetic teachings, that the force of which is merely a manifestation and like all else in the universe is purely mental in its nature. While on the plane of matter, we must recognize its phenomena. We may control matter, as all masters of higher but we do so by applying We commit a folly when we attempt to deny the existence of matter We may deny its mastery but we should not attempt to ignore it in its relative aspect, at least so long as we Nor do the laws of nature become when we know them, likewise, to be merely mental creations. They are in full effect We overcome the lower laws, by applying still higher But we cannot escape law Nothing but The All can escape law and that because The All is law itself from which all laws emerge. The most advanced masters usually attributed to the gods of men and there are countless ranks of being, in the great hierarchy of life, whose being and power transcends even that of the highest masters among men to a degree but even the highest master, must bow to the law and be as So that if even these highest beings, whose powers exceed even those attributed by men to their gods, if even these are bound by then imagine the of our race and grade, when he dares to consider as unreal, visionary, and illusory, because he happens to be that the laws are mental in nature, and simply mental creations of The All. Those laws which The All are not to be defied or argued away. So long as the universe For the universe exists which form its framework The Hermetic principle of mentalism, while explaining the true upon the principle that all is mental, does not change the scientific conceptions of the universe, life, or evolution. In fact, science merely corroborates the Hermetic teachings. The latter merely teaches that the nature of the universe is mental while modern science has or of late that it is The Hermetic teachings have no fault to find with Herbert which postulates the and eternal energy from In fact, the Hermetics recognize the highest outside of the natural laws that and they believe Spencer to of an ancient philosopher thousands of years ago, and who later incarnated as Heraclitus, the Grecian philosopher And they regard his and eternal energy as directly in the line of the Hermetic teachings, always with the addition that his energy is the energy With the master key of the student of Spencer many doors of the inner of the great English philosopher, whose work shows the of his previous incarnations. His teachings regarding are in almost perfect agreement regarding the principle of rhythm. So, the student of any of his cherished scientific views regarding the universe. All he is asked to do is to grasp the underlying The universe is mental held He will find that the other will fit into his scientific knowledge, and will serve to bring out obscure points and to throw light in dark corners. This is not to be wondered at when we realize the influence on the early philosophers of Greece, upon whose foundations of thought the theories of modern The acceptance of the first is the only great point of difference between modern science and science is gradually moving in its groping in the dark into which it has wandered The purpose of this lesson is to impress upon the the fact that, to all the universe and its are just as real, so as they would be under the hypotheses of materialism or energism. Under any hypothesis, the universe in its outer aspect is changing, ever-flowing, and transitory, and therefore devoid of But note the other pole of the truth under any of the same hypotheses, we are compelled to act and live as if the fleeting things With this difference, always, between the various hypotheses that under the old views mental power was ignored as a natural force, while under mentalism it becomes And this one difference to those who understand the principle and its resulting laws and practice. So, finally, students all, grasp the advantage of use, and apply the laws But do not yield to the temptation, which, as The Kybalion states, &quot;Overcomes the half-wise &quot;and which causes them to be hypnotized &quot;by the apparent unreality of things, &quot;the consequence being &quot;like dream-people dwelling &quot;ignoring the practical &quot;the end being that they &quot;and torn asunder by the elements, &quot;by reason of their folly.&quot; Rather follow the example of the wise, which the same authority states, &quot;Use law against laws, &quot;the higher against the lower, &quot;and by the art of alchemy, &quot;transmute that which is undesirable &quot;into that which is worthy, &quot;and thus triumph.&quot; Following the authority, let us avoid the half which ignores the truth that, &quot;Mastery consists not in abnormal dreams, &quot;visions, and fantastic &quot;but in using the higher &quot;escaping the pains of the lower planes &quot;by vibrating on the higher.&quot; Remember always, student, &quot;That transmutation, &quot;is the weapon of the master. The above quotations and are worthy of being committed We do not live in a world of dreams, but in an universe which while relative, is real so far as our lives Our business in the universe but to live using the laws living on, doing the best that we can under the circumstances arising each day, and living, so far as is possible, to our biggest ideas and ideals. The true meaning of life is If, indeed, to any but and our own intuitions, teach us that we will make no mistake in living up to the best that is in us, so far as is possible, and realizing the universal in spite of apparent We are all on the path and the road leads upward ever, with frequent resting places. Read the message of The Kybalion and follow the example of the wise avoiding the mistake of the half-wise who perish by reason of their folly. Chapter VII. The All In All. &quot;While all is in The All, &quot;it is equally true &quot;To him who truly understands this truth &quot;hath come great knowledge,&quot; The Kybalion. How often have the repeated the statement that their deity, called by many names, was all in all, and how little have they concealed by these The commonly used expression is a survival of the ancient Hermetic As The Kybalion says, &quot;To him who truly understands this truth, &quot;hath come great knowledge.&quot; And, this being so, let us seek this truth, the understanding of which means so much. In this statement of is concealed one of the greatest philosophical, scientific, We have given you the Hermetic teaching regarding the mental the truth that, &quot;The universe is mental &quot;held in the mind of The All,&quot; As The Kybalion says in &quot;All is in The All.&quot; But note also the &quot;It is equally true This apparently contradictory statement is reconcilable under the law of paradox. It is, moreover, an of the relations existing between The All and its mental universe. We have seen how all is in The All. Now let us examine the The Hermetic teachings The All is imminent in remaining within, inherent, abiding within its universe, and in every part, particle, within the universe. This statement is usually by a reference to the The teacher instructs the student to form a mental image of something, something having a mental form, the favorite example or dramatist forming an or a painter or sculptor that he wishes to express by his art. In each case, the student will find that while the image has its existence, and being, solely within his own mind, yet he, the student, or sculptor, is, in a sense, immanent in, remaining within, or abiding In other words, the entire of reality in the mental image is derived from the immanent mind of the thinker. Consider this for a moment, until the idea is grasped. To take a modern example, let us say that Othello, Iago, existed merely in the mind of Shakespeare, at the time of their And yet, Shakespeare also existed within each of these characters, giving them their vitality, Whose is the spirit of the characters that we know as Micawber, Oliver Twist, Uriah Heep is it Dickens, or have each of these independent of their creator? Have the Venus of Medici, the Sistine Madonna, the Apollo Belvedere, spirits and reality of their own, or do they represent the spiritual and mental power of their creators? The law of paradox explains that both propositions are true, viewed from the proper viewpoints. Micawber is both And, again, while Micawber yet Dickens is not Man, like Micawber may exclaim, &quot;The spirit of my creator &quot;and yet I am not he.&quot; How different this from so vociferously announced who fill the air with their Imagine poor Micawber, or the sneaky Uriah Heep, crying &quot;I am Dickens&quot;, or some of the lowly clods in grandiloquently announcing The All is in the earthworm, and yet the earthworm is And still the wonder remains, that though the earthworm exists merely as a lowly thing, created, and having its being solely yet, The All is immanent in the earthworm, and in the particles that Can there be any greater mystery than this of all in The All, and The All in all? The student will, of course, realize that the illustrations given above are necessarily imperfect and inadequate. For they represent the creation of mental images in finite minds, while the universe is a and the difference between And yet it is merely a matter of degree. The same principle is in operation. The principle of correspondence &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above.&quot; And, in the degree that man realizes the existence of the indwelling spirit immanent within his being, so will he rise in the This is what spiritual development means, the recognition, realization, and manifestation of the spirit within us. Try to remember this last definition that of spiritual development. It contains the truth of true religion. There are many planes of many degrees of existence in the universe, and all depend upon the of which scale the lowest the highest being separated only by the thinnest division from And upward and onward everything is moving. All are on the path whose end is The All. All progress is a returning home. All is upward and onward, in spite of all seemingly Such is the message of the illumined. The Hermetic teachings of the mental creation of the universe, are that at the beginning The All, in its aspect of being, projects its will toward and the process of creation begins. It is taught that the process consists of the lowering of vibration until a very low degree of at which point the grossest possible form of matter is manifested. This process is called in which The All becomes involved, or wrapped up, in its creation. This process is believed by the Hermetists to have a correspondence of an artist, writer, or inventor, who becomes so wrapped as to almost forget his own existence, and who, for the time being, almost lives in his creation. If instead of wrapped, we use the word, rapt, perhaps we will give a This involuntary stage of creation is sometimes called the just as the evolutionary The extreme pole of the creative process is considered to be the while the beginning of is regarded as the beginning of the pendulum of rhythm, a coming home idea being held in all of the Hermetic teachings. The teachings are that the vibrations become lower and lower until finally the urge ceases, and the return swing begins. But there is this difference. That while in the outpouring the creative forces manifest Yet, from the beginning of the evolutionary or indrawing stage, there is manifested the That is, the tendency to so that finally that which left The All as unindividualized energy, returns to its source as countless highly developed units of life, having risen higher by means of physical, mental, The ancient Hermetists in describing the process of the universe in the mind of The All. The word contemplation also But the idea intended seems to be that of the employment Attention is a word derived meaning to reach out, to stretch out, and so the act of attention is really a mental reaching out, so that the underlying when we examine into the The Hermetic teachings regarding are that The All having meditated upon the beginning of the creation the material foundations of the universe, having thought it into existence, then gradually awakens or and in so doing starts into manifestation the process of evolution and spiritual planes Thus, the upward movement begins, and all begins to move spiritward. Matter becomes less gross. The units spring into being. The combinations begin to form. Life appears and manifests and mind becomes more The vibrations constantly becoming higher. In short, the entire process of evolution, in all of its phases, begins and proceeds according to the established laws All of this occupies eons Each eon containing but, yet the illumined inform including involution and is but as the twinkle At the end of countless The All withdraws its attention, its contemplation and For the great work is finished, and all is withdrawn into The But mystery of mysteries, the spirit of each soul but is infinitely expanded. The created and the creator are merged. Such is the report of the illumined. The above illustration of the meditation, and subsequent awakening is of course but an to describe the infinite And, yet, &quot;As below, so above.&quot; The difference is merely in degree. And just as The All arouses itself from the meditation upon the universe, so does man in time cease from manifesting upon the material plane, and withdraws himself more and more into the indwelling spirit, which is indeed the divine ego. There is one more matter of which we desire to speak in this lesson, and that comes very near to an invasion of the metaphysical field of speculation. Although, our purpose is merely to show the futility of such speculation. We allude to the question which inevitably comes to who have ventured to seek the truth. The question is, &quot;Why does The All create universes?&quot; The question may be but the above is the gist of the inquiry. Men have striven hard but still there is no Some have imagined that The All but this is absurd. For what could The All gain that it did not already possess? Others have sought the answer in the idea that The All wished something to love and others that it created or because it was lonely All puerile explanations and ideas belonging to the childish Others have sought to explain the mystery by assuming that The All found by reason of its own internal nature, its creative instinct. This idea is in advance of the others, but its weak point lies in the idea of The All being compelled by anything, internal or external. If its internal nature, compelled it to do anything, then the internal nature would be the absolute, instead of The All, and so accordingly that part And, yet, The All does and seems to find some kind And it is difficult to that in some infinite degree it must have what would or creative instinct in man, with correspondingly It could not act unless it willed to act, and it would not will to act, unless it desired to act, and it would not desire to act unless it obtained some And all of these things would and might be postulated as existing according to the law of correspondence. But still, we prefer to think of The All as acting entirely free internal as well as external. That is the problem which lies and the difficulty that lies Strictly speaking, there cannot be said to be any reason whatsoever for The All to act, for a reason implies a cause, and The All is above cause and effect, except when it wills to become a cause, at which time the principle So, you see, the matter is unthinkable, just as The All is unknowable. Just as we say The All merely is, so we are compelled to say that, The All acts because it acts. At the last, The All is All law in itself. All action in itself, and it may be said truthfully that The All is its own reason, its own law, its own act, or still further, that The All, its reason, its act, its law are one, all being names for the same thing. In the opinion of those who are giving you these present lessons, the answer is locked up in along with its secret of being. The law of correspondence, in our opinion, reaches only to that aspect of The All, which may be spoken of as Back of that aspect is the aspect of being in which all laws are lost in law. All principles merge into principle and The All, principle, one and the same. Therefore, metaphysical speculation on this point is futile. We go into the matter here, merely to show that we and also the absurdity of metaphysics and theology. In conclusion, it may be of interest to our students to learn that while some of the ancient and have rather inclined in the principle of with the result of the still the legends have it when asked this question answered them by pressing and saying not a word, indicating that there was no answer. But then he may have intended to apply the axiom of his philosophy that, &quot;The lips of wisdom are closed, &quot;except to the ears of understanding.&quot; Believing that even his advanced students did not possess the understanding which entitled them to the teaching. At any rate, if Hermes he failed to impart it, and so far as the world is concerned, the lips of Hermes are And where the great what mortal may dare to teach? But, remember, that whatever if indeed there be an answer, the truth remains that it is equally true that The All is in all. The teaching on this point is emphatic. And, we may add the concluding &quot;To him who truly understands this truth, &quot;hath come great knowledge.&quot; Chapter VIII. The Planes Of Correspondence. &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above,&quot; The Kybalion. The great second Hermetic that there is a harmony agreement and correspondence between the several planes of manifestation, life, and being. This truth is a truth in the universe emanates and the same laws, principles, apply to each unit or as each manifests its own For the purpose of convenience the Hermetic philosophy may be divided into three known as the three great planes. Namely: One, The Great Physical Plane. Two, The Great Mental Plane. Three, The Great Spiritual Plane. These divisions are more or For the truth is, that all of the three divisions are but ascending degrees The lowest point of which and the highest point that of spirit. And, moreover, the different so that no hard and fast between the higher and the lower of the mental, or between the higher of the mental and the lower of the spiritual. In short, the three great as three great groups of While the purposes of this little book do not allow us to enter into or explanation of the subject still we think it well to of the same at this point. At the beginning we may as well consider the question so often who desires to be informed regarding the meaning of the word plane, which term has been very freely used and very poorly explained in many recent works upon The question is generally &quot;Is a plane a place having dimensions, &quot;or is it merely a condition or state?&quot; We answer, no, not a place, nor ordinary dimension of space, and yet more than a state or condition. It may be considered as and yet the state or condition in a scale subject to measurement. Somewhat paradoxical, is it not? But let us examine the matter. A dimension, you know, is a measure in a straight line, relating to measure, et cetera. The ordinary dimensions of space are length, breadth, and height, or perhaps length, breadth, height, thickness, or circumference. But there is another or measure in a straight and to scientists as well. Although, the latter have not as yet applied the term dimension to it, and this new dimension, which by the way, is the much speculated is the standard used in This fourth dimension may be called the dimension of vibration. It is a fact well known to modern science, as well as to the the truth in their third &quot;That everything is in motion. &quot;Everything vibrates. &quot;Nothing is at rest.&quot; From the highest everything and all things vibrate. Not only do they vibrate at but as in different directions The degrees of the rate the degrees of measurement In other words, the degrees And these degrees form what The higher the degree the higher the plane, and the higher the manifestation of life occupying that plane. So that while a plane is not a place, nor yet a state or condition, yet it possesses qualities common to both. We shall have more to of the scale of vibrations in which we shall consider the Hermetic principle of vibration. You will kindly remember, however, that the three great planes are not actual divisions of the but merely arbitrary terms in order to aid in the thought and study of the various degrees and forms of universal activity and life. The atom of matter, the unit and the being of the archangel are all but degrees in one scale, and all fundamentally the same, the difference between and rate of vibration. All are creations of The All, and have their existence solely within the The Hermetists sub-divide each of the three great planes and each of these latter are also sub-divided all divisions being shading into each other, and adopted merely for convenience of scientific study and thought. The great physical plane, and its seven minor planes, is that division of the which includes all that or material things, It includes all forms of and all forms of that which But you must remember that does not recognize matter or as having a separate existence even in the mind of The All. The teachings are that matter That is, energy at a low rate of vibrations of a certain kind. And accordingly the Hermetists classify matter under the head of energy, and give to it three of of the great physical plane. These seven minor physical One, The Plane of Matter, A. Two, the Plane of Matter, B. Three, the Plane of Matter, C. Four, the Plane of Ethereal Substance. Five, the Plane of Energy, A. Six, the Plane of Energy, B. Seven, the Plane of Energy, C. The Plane of Matter, A, comprises the forms of matter in its form of solids, liquids, and gases, as generally recognized by The Plane of Matter, B, and more subtle forms of of which modern science the phenomena of radiant matter, in its phases of radium, et cetera, belonging to the lower subdivision of this minor plane. The Plane of Matter, C, comprises forms of the most The existence of which is not suspected by ordinary scientists. The Plane of Ethereal Substance comprises that which science speaks of as the ether, a substance of extreme pervading all universal space, and acting as a medium for the transmission of waves of energy, such as light, heat, This ethereal substance between matter so-called and energy, and partakes of the nature of each. The Hermetic teachings, however, instruct that this plane as have all of the minor planes, and that, in fact, there are seven ethers instead of but one. Next above The Plane of Ethereal Substance comes The Plane of Energy, A, which comprises the ordinary forms of energy known to science, its seven sub-planes being, respectively, heat, light, magnetism, including gravitation, cohesion, chemical affinity, et cetera, and several other forms of energy indicated by scientific experiments, but not as yet named or classified. The Plane of Energy, B, of higher forms of energy not but which have been called and which are called into of certain forms of mental phenomena, and by which such The Plane of Energy, C, comprises seven sub-planes that it bears many of the but which is not recognized by the minds of men on the ordinary being available for the use on beings of the spiritual plane alone. Such energy is unthinkable and may be considered The beings employing the even to the highest The great mental plane comprises those forms of living things, known to us in ordinary life, as well as certain other forms not so well known except to the occultist. The classification of the is more or less satisfactory and arbitrary unless accompanied by which are foreign to the but we may as well mention them. They are as follows. One, The Plane of Mineral Mind. Two, The Plane of Elemental Mind, A. Three, The Plane of Plant Mind. Four, The Plane of Elemental Mind, B. Five, The Plane of Animal Mind. Six, The Plane of Elemental Mind, C. Seven, The Plane of Human Mind. The Plane of Mineral Mind comprises the states or conditions or groups and combinations of the same, which animate the forms known to us as minerals, chemicals, et cetera. These entities must not be atoms, and corpuscles themselves. The latter being merely or forms of these entities. Just as a man's body is but his material form and not himself. These entities may be and are living beings of a low and mind just a little more which comprise the higher subdivisions of the highest physical plane. The average mind does the possession of mind, soul, or life, to the mineral kingdom, but all occultists recognize and modern science is to the point-of-view of the The molecules, atoms, and corpuscles have their loves and attractions and repulsions, affinities and non-affinities, et cetera, and some of the more daring have expressed the opinion emotions, and feelings, of the atoms differ only in degree from those of men. We have no time or space All occultists know it to be a fact, and others are referred scientific works for There are the usual seven The Plane of Elemental Mind, A, comprises the state or condition, and degree of mental and vital development of a class of entities but recognized to occultists. They are invisible to the but, nevertheless, exist of the drama of the universe. Their degree of intelligence is between that of the mineral and chemical entities on the one hand, and of the entities of the There are seven subdivisions The Plane of Plant Mind, in its seven subdivisions, comprises the states or conditions of the entities comprising the The vital and mental phenomena of which is fairly well understood by the average intelligent person. Many new and interesting scientific works regarding mind and life in plants having been published Plants have life, mind, and souls, as well as have the The Plane of Elemental Mind, B, in its seven subdivisions, comprises the states and conditions of a higher form of playing their part in the the mind and life of which between the plane of plant mind and the plane of animal mind. The entities partaking The plane of animal mind, in its seven subdivisions, comprises the states and conditions of the entities, beings, or souls, animating the animal forms It is not necessary to go into details regarding this kingdom or plane of life, for the animal world is as The Plane of Elemental Mind, C, in its seven subdivisions, comprises those entities or beings, invisible as are all such elemental forms, which partake of the nature of both animal and human life in a degree and in certain combinations. The highest forms are The Plane of Human Mind, in its seven subdivisions, comprises those manifestations of life and mentality which are common to man, in his various grades, In this connection, we wish to point out the fact that the average man of today occupies but the fourth subdivision and only the most intelligent have crossed the borders It has taken the race millions and it will take many more to the sixth and seventh But remember that there which have passed through these degrees, and then on to higher planes. Our own race is the fifth with stragglers from the fourth which has set foot upon the path. And, then there are a few who have outstripped the masses, and who have passed on to the sixth and seventh subdivision, and some few being still further on. The man of the sixth subdivision He of the seventh will be the overman. In our consideration of the we have merely referred to in a general way. We do not wish to go into this subject in detail in this work. For it does not belong to this part of the general philosophy and teachings. But we may say this much, in order to give you of the relations of these planes to the more familiar ones. The elementary planes to the planes of mineral, plant, animal and human mentality and life, that the black keys on the The white keys are but there are certain scales, in which the black keys play their part, and in which their presence is necessary. They are also necessary of soul condition, between the several other planes. Certain forms of development this last fact giving to the reader who can read between the lines a new light upon the and a new key to the secret door of the leaps of life The great kingdoms of elementals are fully recognized by all occultists, and the esoteric writings The readers of Bulwer's will recognize the entities Passing on from the great mental plane to the great spiritual How can we explain these life and mind, to minds and understand the higher subdivisions of the plane of human mind? The task is impossible. We can speak only in How may light be described How sugar to a man who has How harmony to one born deaf? All that we can say is that the seven minor planes of each minor plane having comprise beings possessing as far above that of man is above the earthworm, mineral, or even certain forms of energy or matter. The life of these beings that we cannot even think Their minds so far transcend ours, that to them we scarcely seem to think, and our mental processes seem almost akin to material processes. The matter of which is of the highest planes of matter. Nay, some are even said to What may be said of such beings? On the seven minor planes of exist beings of whom we may speak as angels, archangels, demi-gods. On the lower minor planes dwell those great souls whom Above them come the great unthinkable to man, and above those come those who may without irreverence be called the gods, so high in the scale of being are they, their being, intelligence, and power being akin to those attributed by the races of men to These beings are beyond even the highest flights of the human imagination, the word divine being the Many of these beings, as take the greatest interest in and play an important part in its affairs. These unseen divinities extend their influence in the process of evolution, Their occasional intervention and assistance in human affairs have led to the many legends, beliefs, religions, and traditions of They have superimposed their knowledge and power upon the world again and again, all under the law of The All, of course. But, yet, even the highest of these advanced beings exist and in, the mind of The All, and are subject to the cosmic processes and universal laws. They are still mortal. We may call them gods if we like, but still they are but the the advanced souls who have and who have foregone the in order to help the race on its upward journey along the path. But, they belong to the universe, and are subject to its conditions. They are mortal and their plane is below that of absolute spirit. Only the most advanced Hermetists are able to grasp the inner teachings regarding the state of existence, and the powers manifested The phenomena is so much higher than that of the mental planes would surely result from an Only those whose minds along the lines of the yes, those who have brought with them from other incarnations the can comprehend just what is meant by the teaching regarding And much of these inner teachings is held by the Hermetists as and even dangerous for The intelligent student may when we state that the meaning of spirit as used by the Hermetists animated force, inner essence, which meaning must not be and commonly employed in in other words, religious, ethereal, holy, et cetera, et cetera. To occultists the word spirit is used in the sense of carrying with it the idea of power, living energy, mystic force, et cetera. And occultists know that, that which is known to them as spiritual power, may be employed for evil in accordance with the a fact which has been recognized by the majority of religions Beelzebub, the devil, Lucifer, And so the knowledge has been kept in the holy of holies in all esoteric fraternities in the secret chamber of the temple. But this may be said here. That those who have attained and have misused them, have a terrible fate in store for them, and the swing of the pendulum of rhythm will inevitably swing them back to the furthest extreme from which point they must along the weary rounds of the path, but always with the added torture of having always with of the heights from which they fell owing to their evil actions. The legends of the fallen angels have a basis in actual facts, as all advanced occultists know. The striving for selfish inevitably results in the selfish soul losing its spiritual balance and falling back as far as But to even such a soul, the opportunity of a return is given and such souls make the return journey, paying the terrible penalty In conclusion, we would according to the principle which embodies the truth, &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above,&quot; all of the seven Hermetic principles are in full operation on physical, mental, and spiritual. The principle of mental substance of course applies to all the planes, for all are held in the mind of The All. The principle of correspondence for there is a correspondence, harmony, and agreement between the several planes. The principle of vibration in fact the very differences that go to make the planes arise from vibration, as we have explained. The principle of polarity the extremes of the poles being apparently opposite and contradictory. The principle of rhythm the movement of the phenomena rise and flow, incoming and outgoing. The principle of cause and Every effect having its cause, and every cause having its effect. The principle of gender The creative energy being always manifest, and operating along the lines of its masculine and feminine aspects. &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above.&quot; This centuries old Hermetic axiom embodies one of the great As we proceed with our consideration of the remaining principles, we will see even more clearly the truth of the universal nature of this great principle of correspondence. Chapter IX. Vibration. &quot;Nothing rests. &quot;Everything moves. &quot;Everything vibrates,&quot; The Kybalion. The great third Hermetic principle, the principle of vibration embodies the truth that motion is manifest in everything in the universe. That nothing is at rest. That everything moves, This Hermetic principle was recognized by some of the early Greek philosophers who embodied it in their systems. But then, for centuries by the thinkers outside But in the nineteenth century physical science re-discovered the truth, and the 20th century have added additional proof of this centuries old Hermetic doctrine. The Hermetic teachings are that not only is everything in but that the differences manifestations of the universal power are due entirely to the varying rate and mode of vibrations. Not only this, but that even The All, in itself, manifests a constant vibration of such an infinite degree that it may be practically The teachers directing the attention of the students to the fact a rapidly moving object seems to be at rest. The teachings are to the effect that spirit is at one end the other pole being certain extremely gross forms of matter. Between these two poles of different rates and modes of vibration. Modern science has proven that all that we call matter and energy are but modes of vibratory motion, and some of the more advanced scientists are rapidly moving toward the who hold that the phenomena of mind are likewise modes of vibration or motion. Let us see what science has to say regarding the question of In the first place, science teaches that all matter manifests, in some degree, the vibrations arising Be an object cold or hot both being but degrees of the same things it manifests certain heat vibrations, and in that sense is in Then all particles of matter from corpuscle to suns. The planets revolve around suns, and many of them turn on their axes. The suns move around and these are believed to move around still greater, and so on, ad infinitum. The molecules of which the particular kinds are in a state of constant vibration and movement around each The molecules are composed of atoms, which, likewise, are in a state of constant movement and vibration. The atoms are composed of corpuscles, sometimes called which also are in a state of rapid motion, revolving around each other, and which manifest a very rapid And, so we see that all forms in accordance with the Hermetic And so it is with the Science teaches that light, are but forms of vibratory motion connected in some way with, and probably emanating from the ether. Science does not as yet attempt to explain the known as cohesion, which is the principle nor chemical affinity, which is the principle nor gravitation, the greatest mystery of the three, which is the principle of attraction by which every particle or mass of matter is bound to every other particle or mass. These three forms of energy are not as yet understood by science. Yet, the writers incline to the opinion that these too are manifestations of some form of vibratory energy. A fact which the Hermetists have held and taught for ages past. The universal ether, which is postulated by being understood clearly, is held by the Hermetists to be but a higher manifestation of that which is erroneously called matter. That is to say, matter at a and is called by them The Hermetists teach that is of extreme tenuity and elasticity, and pervades universal space, serving as a medium of transmission of waves of vibratory light, electricity, magnetism, et cetera. The teachings are that is a connecting link between known as matter on the one hand, and energy or force on the other, and also that it manifests in rate and mode, entirely its own. Scientists have offered the illustration of a rapidly moving to show the effects of The illustration supposes a wheel, top, or revolving cylinder, We will call this in following out the illustration. Let us suppose the object moving slowly. It may be seen readily, but no sound of its The speed is gradually increased. In a few moments its that a deep growl or Then as the rate is increased, the note rises one in the musical scale. Then the motion being the next highest note is distinguished. Then, one after another, all the notes of the musical scale appear, rising higher and higher Finally, when the motions the final note perceptible and the shrill, piercing shriek dies away, and silence follows. No sound is heard from The rate of motion being so high, that the human ear cannot Then comes the perception Then after quite a time of the object becoming a As the rate increases, the red becomes brighter. Then as the speed is increased, the red melts into an orange. Then the orange melts into a yellow. Then follow, successively, the shades of green, blue, as the rate of speed increases. Then the violet shades away, and all color disappears. The human eye not being But there are invisible rays emanating from the revolving object, the rays that are used in photographing, and other subtle rays of light. Then begin to manifest the peculiar rays known as the x-rays, et cetera, as the constitution of the object changes. Electricity and magnetism are emitted when the appropriate rate When the object reaches a its molecules disintegrate, into the original elements or atoms. Then the atoms, following are separated into the of which they are composed. And finally, even the corpuscles disappear and the object may be said to be composed of the ethereal substance. Science does not dare to follow but the Hermetists teach that if the vibrations the object would mount of manifestation and the various mental stages, until it would finally reenter The All, which is absolute spirit. The object, however, would have ceased to be an object long before the stage of but otherwise the illustration is correct in as much as it shows the effect of constantly increased It must be remembered in that at the stages at which the object throws off vibrations of it is not actually resolved which are much higher in the scale, but simply that it reaches in which those forms of in a degree from the molecules, atoms, and These forms of energy, although much higher in are imprisoned and confined by reason of the energies and using material forms, but thus becoming entangled and confined in their creations of material forms, which, to an extent, is the creating force becoming But the Hermetic teachings go much further than do those of modern science. They teach that all manifestation of thought, emotion, or any mental state or condition, are accompanied by vibrations, a portion of which are thrown off and which tend to affect the minds of other persons by induction. This is the principle which of telepathy, mental of the action and power of mind over mind, with which the general public is rapidly becoming acquainted, owing to the wide dissemination of occult knowledge by cults, and teachers along Every thought, emotion, or mental state has its corresponding rate And by an effort of or of other persons, these mental states may be reproduced. Just as a musical tone may be reproduced by causing an instrument to Just as color may be By a knowledge of the as applied to mental phenomena, one may polarize his mind Thus, gaining a perfect control over his mental states, moods, et cetera. In the same way he may producing the desired In short, he may be able to produce on the mental plane that which science produces namely, vibrations at will. This power of course may be acquired only by exercises, practice, et cetera. The science being that one of the branches of the Hermetic art. A little reflection on what we have said will show the student that underlies the wonderful manifested by the masters and adepts, who are able to apparently but who, in reality, are simply using one law against another, one principle against others, and who accomplish their results by changing the vibrations or forms of energy, and thus perform what are As one of the old Hermetic &quot;He who understands the &quot;has grasped the scepter of power.&quot; Chapter X. Polarity. &quot;Everything is dual. &quot;Everything has poles. &quot;Everything has its pair of opposites. &quot;Like and unlike are the same. &quot;Opposites are identical in nature, &quot;but different in degree. &quot;Extremes meet. &quot;All truths are but half truths. &quot;All paradoxes may be The great fourth Hermetic principle, the principle of polarity, embodies the truth that have two sides, two aspects, with manifold degrees The old paradoxes, which have ever perplexed the mind of men, are explained by an Man has always recognized and has endeavored to express it by such sayings, maxims, and &quot;Everything is and isn't at the same time. &quot;All truths are but half truths, &quot;Every truth is half false. &quot;There are two sides to everything. &quot;There is a reverse side to every shield,&quot; et cetera, et cetera. The Hermetic teachings are to between things seemingly to each other is merely It teaches that the pairs of and that thesis and antithesis but different in degree, and that the universal is effected by a recognition The teachers claim that illustrations of this principle may and from an examination into They begin by showing are but the two poles of the same thing, the intermediate planes being They show that The All the difference being of mental manifestation. Thus the law and laws are the two opposite poles of one thing. Likewise, principle and principles. Infinite mind and finite minds. Then passing on to the physical plane, they illustrate the principle are identical in nature. The differences being The thermometer shows many The lowest pole being called cold, and the highest heat. Between these two poles are many degrees of heat or cold. Call them either and The higher of two While the lower is always colder. There is no absolute standard. All is a matter of degree. There is no place on the thermometer where heat ceases and cold begins. It is all a matter of The very terms high and low, which we are compelled to use, are but poles of the same thing. The terms are relative. So with east and west travel around the world and you reach a point which is called west at your starting point, and you return from that westward point. Travel far enough north, and you will find yourself Light and darkness are with many degrees between them. The musical scale is the same. Starting with C, you move upward until you reach another C and so on. The differences between the two ends of the board being the same, with many degrees The scale of color is the same. Higher and lower vibrations between high violet and low red. Large and small are relative. So are noise and quiet. Hard and soft, follow the rule. Likewise sharp and dull. Positive and negative are with countless degrees between them. Good and bad are not absolute. We call one end of the scale or one end good and the other evil, according to the use of the terms. A thing is less good than the but that less good thing, in turn, is more good than the thing The more or less being regulated by the position on the scale. And so it is on the mental plane. Love and hate are generally regarded as being things diametrically entirely different, unreconcilable. But we apply the principle of polarity. We find that there is no such thing as absolute love or absolute hate, as distinguished from each other. The two are merely terms applied to the two poles of the same thing. Beginning at any point of the scale we find more love or less hate, as we ascend the scale, and more hate less love as we descend. This being true no matter from what point, high or low, we may start. There are degrees of love and hate, and there is a middle point where like and dislike become so faint that it is difficult to Courage and fear come under the same rule. The pairs of opposites exist everywhere. Where you find one thing, you find its opposite, the two poles. And it is this fact that to transmute one mental along the lines of polarization. Things belonging to different classes cannot be transmuted into each other, but things of the same That is, may have their polarity changed. Thus, love never becomes but it may and often does turn into hate, and likewise hate may by changing its polarity. Courage may be transmuted Hard things may be rendered soft. Dull things become sharp. Hot things become cold and so on. The transmutation always being between things of the same Take the case of a fearful man. By raising his mental vibrations along the line of fear courage, he can be filled with the highest degree of courage and fearlessness. And, likewise, the slothful man may change himself into an simply by polarizing along the The student who is by which the various schools produce changes in the mental states of those following their teachings, may not readily understand the principle underlying many of these changes. When, however, the principle and it is seen that the mental changes are occasioned by a change of polarity a sliding along the same scale, the matter is more readily understood. The change is not in the of one thing into another but is merely a change of a vastly important difference. For instance, borrowing an it is impossible to change loudness, highness, et cetera, but heat may readily simply by lowering the vibrations. In the same way hate and love so are fear and courage. But fear cannot be transformed into love, nor can courage be transmuted into hate. The mental states belong each class of which along which transmutation is possible. The student will readily recognize that in the mental states, as well as in the phenomena the two poles may be classified as positive and negative, respectively. Thus love is positive to activity to non-activity, And it will also be noticed that even to those unfamiliar with the principle of vibration, the positive pole seems to be of a higher degree than the negative, and readily dominates it. The tendency of nature is in the direction of the dominant activity In addition to the changing of the poles of one's own mental states by the operation of the the phenomena of mental influence, in its manifold phases, shows us that the so as to embrace the phenomena of the influence of one of which so much has been written and taught of late years. When it is understood that that is that mental states may be produced by induction from others, then we can readily see how or polarization of a certain mental state, may be communicated to another person, and his polarity in that class of mental states thus changed. It is along this principle of the mental treatments are obtained. For instance, a person is blue, melancholy and full of fear. A mental scientist bringing his own mind up to the desired vibration and thus obtaining the desired then produces a similar mental state in the other by induction. The result being that the vibrations are raised and the person polarizes toward the positive end of the scale instead toward the negative, and his fear and other negative emotions are transmuted to courage and similar positive mental states. A little study will show you that these mental changes are nearly all along the line of polarization, the change being one of A knowledge of the existence of this great Hermetic principle will enable the student his own mental states and He will see that these states and seeing thus he will the vibration at will to and thus be master of his mental states, instead of being their servant and slave. And by his knowledge, he will be able to aid and by the appropriate when the same is desirable. We advise all students with this principle of polarity. For a correct understanding of the same will throw light on Chapter XI. Rhythm. &quot;Everything flows out and in. &quot;Everything has its tides. &quot;All things rise and fall. &quot;The pendulum-swing &quot;The measure of the swing to the right, &quot;is the measure of the swing to the left. &quot;Rhythm compensates,&quot; The Kybalion. The great fifth Hermetic principle, the principle of rhythm, embodies the truth that in everything there is manifested a measured motion, a to and from movement, a flow and inflow, a swing forward and backward, a pendulum-like movement, a tide like ebb and flow, a high tide and a low tide between the two poles manifest on the physical, mental, The principle of rhythm with the principle of polarity described in the preceding chapter. Rhythm manifests between the two poles established by the principle of polarity. This does not mean, however, that the pendulum of rhythm swings to the extreme poles. For this rarely happens. In fact, it is difficult to establish the extreme polar opposites But the swing is ever and then the other. There is always an action and reaction, an advance and a retreat, manifested in all of the airs Suns, worlds, men, animals, plants, minerals, forces, yes, even spirit, The principle manifests in the creation and destruction of worlds, in the rise and fall of nations, in the life history of all things, and finally in the mental states of man. Beginning with the of The All, it will be noticed that there is ever the outpouring and the indrawing. The &quot;Outbreathing and as the Brahmans word it. Universes are created, reach their extreme low and then begin in their upward swing. Suns spring into being, and then their height the process of retrogression begins, and after eons they become awaiting another impulse which starts again their and a new solar life cycle is begun. And thus it is with all the worlds. They are born, grow, and And thus it is with all the They swing from action to from activity to inactivity, Thus it is with all living things. They are born, grow, and So it is with all great creeds, fashions, governments, nations, and all else birth, growth, and then new birth. The swing of the pendulum Night follows day and day night. The pendulum swings from summer to winter, and then back again. The corpuscles, atoms, molecules, and all masses of matter, swing around the circle of their nature. There is no such thing as absolute rest, or cessation from movement, and all movement partakes of rhythm. The principle is of universal application. It may be applied to any question, or phenomena of any of It may be applied to all There is always the rhythmic swing from one pole to the other. The universal pendulum is ever in motion. The tides of life flow in The principle of rhythm is well understood by modern science, and is considered a universal law as applied to material things. But the Hermetists carry and know that its manifestations and influence extend to the and that it accounts for of moods, feelings, and other annoying and perplexing changes that But the Hermetists by of this principle have learned to escape some of its activities by transmutation. The Hermetic masters long since discovered that while the principle and ever in evidence in mental phenomena, still there were two so far as mental phenomena are concerned. They discovered that there were two general planes of consciousness, the lower and the higher, the understanding of which fact enabled them to rise to the higher plane and thus escape the swing which manifested on the lower plane. In other words, the swing of the pendulum occurred on the unconscious plane, and the consciousness was not affected. This they call the law of neutralization. Its operations consist above the vibrations of of mental activity, so that the negative swing of the pendulum is not manifested in consciousness, and therefore they are not affected. It is akin to rising above a thing and letting it pass beneath you. The Hermetic master, or advanced student, polarizes himself at the desired pole, and by a process akin to in the backward swing or, if you prefer, a denial of its influence over him, he stands firm in his polarized position, and allows the mental pendulum to swing back along the unconscious plane. All individuals who have attained any degree of self-mastery, accomplish this, more or less unknowingly, and by refusing to allow their moods and negative mental states to affect them, they apply the law of neutralization. The master, however, carries this to a much higher degree of proficiency, and by the use of his will he attains a degree of poise and mental firmness almost impossible of who allow themselves to be by the mental pendulum The importance of this will be appreciated by any thinking person who realizes what creatures of the majority of people are, and how little mastery of If you will stop and consider a moment, you will realize how much have affected you in your life. How a period of enthusiasm by an opposite feeling Likewise, your moods have been succeeded by And so it has ever been with Tides of feeling have ever but they have never suspected the cause or reason of the mental phenomena. An understanding of the will give one the key to the mastery of these rhythmic swings of feeling, and will enable him to know himself better and to avoid being carried away by these inflows and outflows. The will is superior to of this principle. Although, the principle We may escape its effects, but the principle operates, nevertheless. The pendulum ever swings. Although, we may escape There are other features of the operation of this principle of rhythm of which we wish to speak at this point. There comes into its operations that which is known as One of the definitions or is, to counterbalance, which is the sense in which It is this law of compensation to which The Kybalion refers when it says, &quot;The measure of the swing to the right &quot;is the measure of the swing to the left. &quot;Rhythm compensates&quot;. The law of compensation is that the swing in one direction determines the swing in the opposite direction, or to the opposite pole. The one balances or On the physical plane we see The pendulum of the clock swings a certain distance to the right, and then an equal distance to the left. The seasons balance each The tides follow the same law. And the same law is manifested in all the phenomena of rhythm. The pendulum with a short has but a short swing in the other. While the long swing to the right invariably means the An object hurled upward has an equal distance to The force with which a is reproduced when the on its return journey. This law is constant as reference to the standard But the Hermetists carry it still further. They teach that a man's mental states are subject to the same law. The man who enjoys keenly, is subject to keen suffering. While he who feels but little pain is capable of feeling but little joy. The pig suffers but little mentally, and enjoys but little he is compensated. And on the other hand, there are other animals who enjoy keenly, but whose nervous organism and temperament cause them to suffer and so it is with man. There are temperaments which permit of but low degrees of enjoyment, and equally low degrees of suffering, while there are others which permit the most intense enjoyment, but also the most intense suffering. The rule is that the capacity in each individual are balanced. The law of compensation But the Hermetists go still They teach that before one is able to enjoy a certain degree of pleasure, he must have swung as toward the other pole of feeling. They hold, however, that the negative is precedent to the That is to say that in experiencing a certain degree of pleasure, it does not follow that he with a corresponding degree of pain. On the contrary, the pleasure is the rhythmic swing, according to the law of compensation, for a degree of pain either in the present life This throws a new light The Hermetists regard the and as forming a part of so that in consequence the rhythmic swing is understood in this way, while it would be without of reincarnation is admitted. But the Hermetists claim that the master or advanced student is to escape the swing toward pain by the process of By rising onto the much of the experience that on the lower plane is avoided and escaped. The law of compensation in the lives of men and women. It will be noticed that one of anything he possesses or lacks. If he has one thing, he lacks another. The balance is struck. No one can keep his penny and have the bit of cake at the same time. Everything has its pleasant The things that one gains are always paid for by The rich possess much that the poor lack. While the poor often possess things that are beyond the reach of the rich. The millionaire may have the and the wealth wherewith and luxuries of the table. While he lacks the He envies the appetite and who lacks the wealth and and who gets more pleasure than the millionaire could obtain even if his appetite were not jaded, nor his digestion ruined. For the wants, habits, And so it is through life. The law of compensation striving to balance and counterbalance, and always succeeding in time, even though several lives may be required for the return swing of Chapter XII. Causation. &quot;Every cause has its effect. &quot;Every effect has its cause. &quot;Everything happens according to law. &quot;Chance is but a name &quot;There are many planes of causation, &quot;but nothing escapes The great sixth Hermetic principle, the principle of cause and effect, embodies the truth that That nothing happens by chance. That chance is merely existing but not recognized or perceived. That phenomena is continuous, without break or exception. The principle of cause and effect underlies all scientific And was enunciated by in the earliest days. While many and varied disputes between the many schools of these disputes have been principally upon the details of the and still more often upon The underlying principle has been accepted as all the thinkers of the To think otherwise would of the universe from the and to relegate it to the control of the imaginary something which men have called chance. A little consideration will show anyone that there is in reality no Webster defines the &quot;A supposed agent or mode of activity &quot;other than a force, law, or purpose. &quot;The operation or activity of such agent, &quot;the supposed effect of such an agent. &quot;A happening, fortuity, But a little consideration will show you that there can in the sense of something outside of law, something outside of cause and effect. How could there be a something acting in the phenomenal universe, independent of the laws, order, and continuity of the latter? Such a something would of the orderly trend of the universe, and, therefore, superior to it. We can imagine nothing outside of The All being outside of the law, and that only because The There is no room in the outside of and independent of law. The existence of such a something would render all natural laws ineffective, and would plunge the universe into chaotic disorder and lawlessness. A careful examination will show that what we call chance is merely an expression relating to obscure causes. Causes that we cannot perceive. Causes that we cannot understand. The word chance is derived as the falling of dice. The idea being that the fall of the dice and many other happenings unrelated to any cause. And this is the sense in which the term is generally employed. But when the matter is closely examined, it is seen that there about the fall of the dice. Each time a die falls, and displays a certain number, it obeys a law as infallible as that which governs the revolution of the planets around the sun. Back of the fall of the die are causes, or chains of causes, running back further The position of the die in the box, the amount of muscular the condition of the table, et cetera, et cetera, all are causes. The effect of which may be seen. But back of these seen causes there are chains of all of which had a bearing upon the number of the If a die be cast a great number of times, it will be found that the numbers That is, there will be an two-spot, et cetera, coming uppermost. Toss a penny in the air, and it may come down but make a sufficient number of tosses, and the heads and tails This is the operation But both the average and the single toss come under the law of cause and effect, and if we were able to examine it would be clearly seen for the die to fall other than it did, under the same circumstances and at the same time. Given the same causes, the same results will follow. There is always a cause and Nothing ever happens without a cause, or rather a chain of causes. Some confusion has arisen considering this principle. From the fact that they how one thing could cause another thing. That is, be the creator As a matter of fact, no thing ever causes or Cause and effect deals merely with events. An event is that which as a result or consequent No event creates another event, but is merely a preceding link in the great orderly chain of events flowing from the creative There is a continuity between all events precedent, consequent, and subsequent. There is a relation existing between everything that has gone before, and everything that follows. A stone is dislodged from a mountain side and crashes through a roof of At first sight we regard but when we examine the matter, we find a great chain of causes behind it. In the first place there was the rain which softened the earth and which allowed it to fall. Then back of that was other rains, et cetera, which gradually disintegrated the piece of rock from a larger piece. Then there were the causes which led to the and its upheaval by convulsions of nature, and so on ad infinitum. Then we might follow up the causes behind the rain, et cetera. Then we might consider In short, we would soon find ourselves involved in a mesh of cause and effect, from which we would soon Just as a man has two parents, and four grandparents, and and 16 great-great-grandparents, and so on until when, say, 40 generations are calculated, the numbers of ancestors so it is with the number of causes behind even the most such as the passage of a tiny It is not an easy matter back to the early period when it formed a part which was afterward converted into coal, and so on, until as the speck of soot, it now passes before your vision on its way to other adventures. And a mighty chain of brought it to its present condition, and the later is but one which will go to produce other events hundreds of years from now. One of the series of events arising from the tiny bit of soot was the writing of these lines, which caused the typesetter The proofreader to do likewise, and which will arouse certain and that of others, which in turn will affect others, and so on, and on, and on, beyond the ability of man to think further and all from the passage All of which shows the relativity and association of things, and the further fact There is no small in the Stop to think a moment. If a certain man had away back in the dim you who are now reading these lines, would not now be here. And if, perhaps, the same couple had failed to meet, we who now write these lines would not now be here. And the very act of writing on our part, and the act of reading on yours, will affect not only the respective lives of yourself and ourselves, but will also have a direct or indirect, affect upon many other people now living and who will live in the ages to come. Every thought we think, has its direct and indirect results which fit into the great We do not wish to enter into or determinism, in this Among the many reasons, that neither side of the In fact, both sides are partially right, according to the Hermetic teachings. The principle of polarity shows that both are but half-truths, the opposing poles of truth. The teachings are that a man may be both free and yet bound by necessity, depending upon the meaning of the terms, and the height of truth from The ancient writers &quot;The further the creation &quot;the more it is bound. &quot;The nearer the center it reaches, &quot;the nearer free is it.&quot; The majority of people are more or less the slaves of heredity, and manifest very little freedom. They are swayed by the opinions, customs, and thoughts and also by their emotions, They manifest no mastery They indignantly repudiate &quot;Why, I certainly am free &quot;I do just what I want to do,&quot; but they fail to explain whence arise the &quot;want What makes them want to do one thing in preference to another? What makes them please to Is there no because to The master can change into others at the opposite He is able to will to will, instead of to will because or environmental suggestion arouses a tendency or The majority of people are carried along like the falling stone, obedient to environment, and internal moods, desires, et cetera. Not to speak of the desires and wills of others heredity, environment, and suggestion, carrying them along without or the exercise of the will. Moved like the pawns on they play their parts and are laid aside after the game is over. But the masters knowing rise above the plane of material life, and placing themselves in touch with the higher powers of their nature, dominate their own moods, characters, qualities, and polarity, as well as the environment and thus become movers in causes instead of effects. The masters do not escape the causation of the higher planes, but fall in with the higher laws, and thus master circumstances They thus form a instead of being mere blind instruments. While they serve on the higher planes, they rule on the material plane. But, on higher and on lower, the law is always in operation. There is no such thing as chance. The blind goddess has We are able to see now with that everything is That the infinite number of laws are but manifestations The law which is The All. It is true indeed that not a sparrow drops unnoticed by the mind of The All. That even the, &quot;hairs on as the scriptures have said. There is nothing outside of law. Nothing that happens contrary to it. And, yet, do not make the mistake of supposing that man is Far from that. The Hermetic teachings are that man may use law to overcome laws, and that the higher will always prevail against the lower, until at last he has reached the stage in which he seeks refuge in the law itself and laughs the phenomenal laws to scorn. Are you able to grasp the Chapter XIII. Gender. &quot;Gender is in everything. &quot;Everything has its masculine &quot;Gender manifests on all The great seventh Hermetic principle, the principle of gender, embodies the truth that there is gender manifested in everything. That the masculine and feminine principles are ever present and active in all phases of phenomena on each and every plane of life. At this point we think it well to call your attention to the fact that gender in its Hermetic sense, and sex in the ordinarily are not the same. The word gender is derived from the Latin root meaning, &quot;to beget, to procreate, &quot;to generate, to create, to produce.&quot; A moment's consideration will show you that the word has a much broader and more general meaning than the term sex. The latter referring to between male and female living things. Sex is merely a manifestation of the great physical plane, the plane of organic life. We wish to impress this For the reason that certain writers, who have acquired a smattering of the Hermetic philosophy, have sought to identify this with wild and fanciful, and often reprehensible theories and teachings regarding sex. The office of gender is solely that of creating, producing, and its manifestations are visible on every plane of phenomena. It is somewhat difficult to produce proofs of this along scientific lines, for the reason that science has not as yet recognized this principle as of universal application. But still some proofs are forthcoming from scientific sources. In the first place, we find a distinct manifestation of the principle of gender among the corpuscles, ions, or electrons, which constitute the basis of matter as science now knows the latter, and which by forming certain which, until lately, was regarded as final and indivisible. The latest word of science is that the atom is of corpuscles, electrons, or ions, the various names being applied by different authorities, revolving around each other and vibrating at a high But the accompanying statement is made that the formation of the atom is really due to the clustering of negative corpuscles the positive corpuscles seeming to exert a certain influence upon the negative corpuscles, causing the latter to and thus create or generate an atom. This is in line with the most which have always identified the masculine principle of and the feminine with the negative poles of electricity so called. Now a word at this point regarding this identification. The public mind has formed an regarding the qualities of of electrified or magnetized matter. The terms positive and negative are very wrongly applied to The word positive means as compared with a negative Nothing is further from the real facts of electrical phenomenon. The so-called negative pole of the battery is really the pole in and by which the generation or production of new forms and energies is manifested. There is nothing negative about it. The best scientific authorities now use the word cathode in place of negative. The word cathode coming &quot;descent, the path of From the cathode pole emerge the swarm of From the same pole emerge which have revolutionized scientific conceptions during the past decade. The cathode pole is the mother of all of the strange phenomena, which have rendered and which have caused many to be relegated to the scrap pile of scientific speculation. The cathode, or negative pole, is the mother principle and of the finest forms of matter as yet known to science. So you see we are justified in refusing to use the term negative in our consideration of the subject, and in insisting upon substituting the word feminine for the old term. The facts of the case bear us out in this, without taking the Hermetic And so we shall use the word feminine in the place of negative in speaking of that pole of activity. The latest scientific teachings are that the creative corpuscles Science says they are composed We say they are composed A feminine corpuscle or rather leaves, a masculine corpuscle and starts on a new career. It actively seeks a union being urged thereto by the natural impulse to create new forms of matter or energy. One writer goes so far as to use the term, &quot;It at once seeks of its own This detachment and uniting form the basis of the greater part of the activities of the chemical world. When the feminine corpuscle unites with a masculine corpuscle, a certain process is begun. The feminine particles vibrate rapidly under the influence of and circle rapidly around the latter. The result is the birth of a new atom. This new atom is really composed of a union of the masculine and feminine electrons, or corpuscles, but when the union is formed having certain properties, but no longer manifesting the property of free electricity. The process of detachment or separation of the feminine electrons These electrons or corpuscles are the most active Arising from their unions or combinations manifest the varied phenomena of light, heat, electricity, magnetism, attraction, repulsion, chemical and similar phenomena. And all this arises from the operation of the principle of gender The part of the masculine of directing a certain inherent energy toward the feminine principle, and thus starting into activity the creative processes. But the feminine principle is the one always doing the active creative work and this is so on all planes. And yet, each principle is incapable of operative energy without the assistance of the other. In some of the forms of life, the two principles are For that matter, everything in the organic world manifests both genders. There is always the masculine and the feminine form. The Hermetic teachings the operation of the in the production and manifestation of various forms of energy, et cetera, but we do not deem it expedient to go into detail regarding because we are unable to back up the same with scientific proof. For the reason that science has not as yet progressed thus far. But the example we have given you of the phenomena of the will show you that science and will also give you a general idea of the underlying principles. Some leading scientific investigators have announced their belief that in the formation of crystals there was to be found something that corresponded to sex activity which is another straw the scientific winds are blowing. And each year will bring the correctness of the It will be found that gender and manifestation in the and in the field of energy or force. Electricity is now generally regarded as the something into which seem to melt or dissolve. The electrical theory of the universe is the latest scientific doctrine, and is growing rapidly in popularity and general acceptance. And it thus follows that in the phenomena of electricity even at the very root and a clear and unmistakable evidence of the presence of gender we are justified in asking at last has offered proofs universal phenomena of that the principle of gender. It is not necessary to take up your time with the well-known and repulsion of the the loves and hates of the attraction or cohesion These facts are too well known to need extended comment from us. But have you ever considered that all of these things are manifestations of Can you not see that the with that of the corpuscles or electrons? And more than this can you not see the reasonableness of which assert that the that strange attraction, all particles and bodies of matter in the universe tend toward each other, is but another manifestation which operates in the the masculine to the feminine We cannot offer you scientific but examine the phenomena in the light of the Hermetic and see if you have not a than any offered by physical science. Submit all physical phenomena to the test, and you will discern ever in evidence. Let us now pass on to a of the principle on the mental plane. Many interesting features are Chapter XIV. Mental Gender. Students of psychology who have followed the along the lines of mental phenomena, are struck by the persistence which has manifested itself so strongly during the past 10 or 15 years, and which has given rise to a regarding the nature and The late Thomson J. Hudson attained great popularity in 1893 by advancing his well-known theory of the objective and subjective minds, which he held existed in every individual. Other writers have attracted almost equal attention by the theories regarding the conscious and subconscious minds, the voluntary and involuntary minds, the active and passive The theories of the various but there remains the underlying principle of the duality of mind. The student of the Hermetic philosophy is tempted to smile when he reads and hears of these many new theories regarding the duality of mind, each school adhering tenaciously to its own pet theories, and each claiming to have The student turns back the and away back in the dim he finds references to the of the principle of gender the manifestation of mental gender. And examining further, he finds that the ancient philosophy took cognizance of the and accounted for it by the This idea of mental gender may to students who are familiar just alluded to. The masculine principle of mind corresponds to the conscious mind, voluntary mind, active mind, et cetera. And the feminine principle of mind corresponds to the so-called subjective mind, subconscious mind, involuntary mind, passive mind, et cetera. Of course the Hermetic with the many modern of the two phases of mind. Nor does it admit many for the two respective aspects. Some of the said theories and claims being very far fetched and of experiment and demonstration. We point to the phases of agreement merely for the purpose to assimilate his previously with the teachings of Students of Hudson will at the beginning of his second chapter of The Law of Psychic &quot;The mystic jargon of &quot;discloses the same In other words, the duality of mind. If Dr. Hudson had taken to decipher a little of the mystic jargon of the Hermetic philosophy, he might have received much light upon the subject of the dual mind. But then, perhaps, his most interesting work Let us now consider the Hermetic teachings regarding mental gender. The Hermetic teachers regarding this subject examine the report of their consciousness regarding their self. The students are bidden inward upon the self dwelling within each. Each student is led to see that his consciousness gives him first a report of the existence of his self. The report is I am. This at first seems to be the final words from the consciousness, but a little further that this I am may be separated or split into two distinct parts, or aspects, which while working in yet, nevertheless, may be While at first there seems a more careful and closer that there exists an I and a me. These mental twins differ in their characteristics and nature, and an examination of their nature and the phenomena arising from the same will throw much light upon many of the problems of mental influence. Let us begin with a which is usually mistaken until he presses the back into the recesses of consciousness. A man thinks of his as being composed of certain feelings, tastes, likes, dislikes, habits, peculiar ties, characteristics, et cetera, all of which go to make or the self known to himself and others. He knows that these emotions are born and die away, are subject to the principle of rhythm, and the principle of polarity, which take him from one He also thinks of the me as being certain knowledge gathered together in his mind, and, thus, forming a part of himself. This is the me of a man. But we have proceeded too hastily. The me of many men may be said to consist largely of their and their physical appetites, et cetera. Their consciousness being largely bound up with their bodily nature, they practically live there. Some men even go so far as to as a part of their me, and actually seem to consider A writer has humorously said that, &quot;Men consist of three parts, These clothes conscious people if divested of their clothing by savages upon the But even many who are with the idea of personal raiment stick closely to the consciousness of their bodies being their me. They cannot conceive of a Their mind seems to them to be practically a something belonging to their body, which in many cases it is indeed. But as man rises in the he is able to disentangle and is able to think of his body as belonging to the mental part of him. But even then he is very entirely with the mental which he feels to exist within him. He is very apt to consider as identical with himself, instead of their being simply things produced by some part of his mentality, and existing within but still not himself. He sees that he may change these internal states of feelings by all effort of will, and that he may produce a feeling or state of an exactly opposite and yet the same me exists. And so after a while, he is able to set aside these various mental habits, qualities, characteristics, and other personal mental belongings. He is able to set them aside in the not me collection of as well as valuable possessions. This requires much mental concentration and power of mental analysis But still the task is possible and even those not so far in the imagination, how the After this laying aside the student will find himself in conscious possession of a self which may be considered in The me will be felt to in which thoughts, ideas, and other mental states may be produced. It may be considered as the mental womb, as the ancients styled it, capable of generating mental offspring. It reports to the consciousness as a me with latent powers of of mental progeny of all sorts and kinds. Its powers of creative energy But still it seems to be some form of energy from or else from some other I, err, it is able to bring into This consciousness brings of an enormous capacity for mental work and creative ability. But the student soon that he finds within He finds that there which is able to will that the me act along certain creative lines, and which is also able to stand aside and witness the mental creation. This part of himself he He is able to rest in its He finds there not a consciousness of an ability to generate in the sense of the gradual process attended upon mental operations, but rather a sense and consciousness of an ability to project an energy from the I to the me, that the mental creation He also finds that the and witness the operations of the me's mental creation and generation. There is this dual aspect The I represents the masculine The me represents the female principle. The I represents the aspect of being. The me the aspect of becoming. You will notice that the operates on this plane just as upon which the creation The two are similar in kind, although vastly different in degree. &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above.&quot; These aspects of mind, the masculine and feminine principles, the I and the me, considered in connection and psychic phenomena, give the master key to these dimly known regions of mental operation and manifestation. The principle of mental underlying the whole field of the phenomena of mental The tendency of the feminine principle is always in the direction While the tendency of is always in the direction The feminine principle has much more varied field of operation than has the masculine principle. The feminine principle conducts the work of generating new including the work of the imagination. The masculine principle contents itself with the work of the will And yet, without the active aid of the will of the masculine principle, the feminine principle with generating mental of impressions received from outside, instead of producing Persons who can give continued attention and thought to a subject, actively employ both of the feminine in the work of and the masculine will in the creative portion of the mind. The majority of persons really employ the masculine principle but little, and are content to live and ideas instilled into the But it is not our purpose to dwell upon this phase of the subject, which may be studied from any with the key that we have given The student of psychic phenomena is aware of the wonderful phenomena classified under the head of telepathy, thought transference, mental influence, suggestion, hypnotism, et cetera. Many have sought for an phases of phenomena under dual mind teachers. And in a measure they are right. For there is clearly a manifestation of two distinct phases of mental activity. But if such students will in the light of the Hermetic teachings regarding vibrations and mental gender, they will see that the long In the phenomena of telepathy it is seen how the vibratory energy of the masculine principle the feminine principle of another person, and the latter takes the seed thought and allows it to develop into maturity. In the same way, suggestion and hypnotism operates. The masculine principle of the person giving the suggestions directs a stream of vibratory energy or willpower toward the feminine principle and the latter accepting and acts and thinks accordingly. An idea thus lodged in the mind of another person grows and develops, and in time is regarded as the rightful mental offspring of the individual. Whereas, it is in reality placed in the sparrows nest, where it destroys the rightful offspring and makes itself at home. The normal method is for the masculine and feminine principles in a person's mind to co-ordinate and act harmoniously in conjunction with each other, but, unfortunately, in the average person is too lazy to act. The display of willpower is too slight, and the consequence, is that such persons are ruled almost entirely by the minds and wills of other persons, whom they allow to do their How few original thoughts are performed by the average person? Are not the majority of persons mere shadows and echoes of others having stronger wills or The trouble is that the almost altogether in his me consciousness and does not realize that He is polarized in his and the masculine principle, in which is lodged the will, is allowed to remain The strong men and women of the masculine principle of will, and their strength depends Instead of living upon upon their minds by others, they dominate their own obtaining the kind of and moreover dominate the minds of others likewise, in the same manner. Look at the strong people, how they manage to implant in the minds of the masses of the people. Thus causing the latter to think thoughts in accordance with the desires and wills of the strong individuals. This is why the masses of people are such sheep-like creatures, never originating an idea of their own, nor using their own The manifestation of mental gender may be noticed all around The magnetic persons are the masculine principle their ideas upon others. The actor who makes people is employing this principle. And so is the successful orator, or other people who are The peculiar influence exerted is due to the manifestation along the vibrational In this principle lies the personal influence, as well as the phenomena generally grouped under The student who has familiarized himself with the phenomena generally will have discovered the in the said phenomena by that force which science has styled suggestion. By which term is meant the process or method whereby an or impressed upon the mind of another, causing the second mind to A correct understanding in order to intelligently psychical phenomena which But, still more is a and mental gender necessary For the whole principle of suggestion depends upon the principle of It is customary for the writers to explain that it is the which make the mental upon the subjective or involuntary mind. But they do not describe the in nature whereby we may more But if you will think of of the Hermetic teachings, that the energizing of by the vibratory energy of is in accordance to the and that the natural world whereby the principle may be understood. In fact, the Hermetic teachings show that the very creation of the and that in all creative manifestations, upon the planes of the spiritual, the mental, and the physical, there is always in operation this manifestation of the masculine and the feminine principles. &quot;As above, so below. &quot;As below, so above.&quot; And more than this, when the principle of mental gender is once grasped and understood, the varied phenomena of capable of intelligent instead of being very much in the dark. The principle works out in practice, because it is based upon the immutable universal laws of life. We shall not enter into or description of the varied or psychic activity. There are many books, many of them quite good, which have been written and published on this subject of late years. The main facts stated in these Although, the several writers the phenomena by various The student may acquaint and by using the theory of mental gender, he will be able to bring of conflicting theory and teachings, and may, moreover, readily make himself a master of the subject if he be so inclined. The purpose of this work is not to give an extended but rather to give to whereby he may unlock into the parts of the temple of knowledge which he may wish to explore. We feel that in this consideration of the teachings of The Kybalion, one may find an explanation which will serve to clear away many perplexing difficulties, a key that will unlock many doors. What is the use of going into detail regarding all of the many features of psychic phenomena and mental science, provided we place in the hands of the student the means himself fully regarding which may interest him. With the aid of The Kybalion, one may go through any the old light from Egypt, illuminating many dark That is the purpose of this book. We do not come expounding but rather furnishing the outlines of a great world old teaching which will make clear which will serve as a great reconciler of differing, theories, Chapter XV. Hermetic Axioms. &quot;The possession of knowledge, &quot;unless accompanied by a manifestation &quot;and expression in action, &quot;is like the hoarding of precious metals, &quot;a vain and foolish thing. &quot;Knowledge like wealth &quot;The law of use is universal, &quot;and he who violates it &quot;suffers by reason of his conflict &quot;with natural forces,&quot; The Kybalion. The Hermetic teachings, while always having been kept securely locked up in the minds of the fortunate possessors thereof, for reasons which we have already stated, were never intended to be merely stored away and secreted. The law of use is dwelt as you may see by reference from The Kybalion, which Knowledge without use and bringing no good to its Beware of mental miserliness, and express into action that which you have learned. Study the axioms and aphorisms, but practice them also. We give below some of the more important Hermetic with a few comments added to each. Make these your own, and practice and use them, for they are not really your &quot;To change your mood or mental state &quot;change your vibration,&quot; The Kybalion. One may change his mental in the direction of deliberately fixing the attention upon a more desirable state. Will directs the attention, and attention changes the vibration. Cultivate the art of attention by means of the will, and you have solved the secret of the mastery of moods and mental states. &quot;To destroy an undesirable &quot;put into operation the &quot;and concentrate upon the opposite pole &quot;to that which you desire to suppress. &quot;Kill out the undesirable &quot;by changing its polarity,&quot; The Kybalion. This is one of the most important of the Hermetic formulas. It is based upon true We have shown you that a were merely the two poles of one thing, and that by mental transmutation the polarity might be reversed. This principle is known who apply it to the breaking by bidding their students concentrate upon the opposite quality. If you are possessed of fear, do not waste time trying to kill out fear, but instead cultivate and the fear will disappear. Some writers have expressed by using the illustration You do not have to shovel out but by merely opening the shutters and letting in the light, the darkness has disappeared. To kill out a negative quality, concentrate upon the positive and the vibrations will gradually change from negative to positive. Until finally you will become instead of the negative. The reverse is also true, as many have found out to their sorrow, when they have allowed too constantly on the By changing your polarity you may master your moods, change your mental states, remake your disposition, and build up character. Much of the mental mastery is due to this application of polarity, which is one of the important aspects of mental transmutation. Remember the Hermetic axiom &quot;Mind, as well as metals and elements, &quot;may be transmuted from state to state, &quot;degree to degree, condition &quot;vibration to vibration,&quot; The Kybalion. The mastery of polarization is the mastery of the of mental transmutation or mental alchemy. For unless one acquires the art of changing his own polarity, he will be unable to An understanding of this principle will enable one to as well as that of others, if he will but devote and practice necessary to master the art. The principle is true, but the results obtained depend upon the persistent patience and practice of the student. &quot;Rhythm may be neutralized &quot;of the art of As we have explained in previous chapters, the Hermetists hold that the on the mental plane as well and that the bewildering feelings, emotions, and are due to the backward and forward swing of the mental pendulum, which carries us from one The Hermetists also teach enables one, to a great extent, to overcome the operation As we have explained, there is a higher plane of consciousness, as well as the ordinary lower plane, and the master, by rising causes the swing of the mental pendulum to manifest on the lower plane, and he, dwelling on his higher plane, escapes the consciousness This is effected by and thus raising the mental above those of the ordinary It is akin to rising above a thing and allowing it to pass beneath you. The advanced Hermetist polarizes himself at the positive pole of his being the I am pole rather than and by refusing and denying raises himself above its and standing firm in he allows the pendulum to swing back on the lower plane without This is accomplished by all individuals who have attained any whether they understand the law or not. Such persons simply to be swung back by the and by steadfastly they remain polarized The master, of course, attains a far greater because he understands the law which he is overcoming by a higher law, and by the use of his will and mental steadfastness on the part of those who allow themselves to be swung backward and forward by the mental pendulum Remember always, however, that you do not really destroy For that is indestructible. You simply overcome one law by counter-balancing it with another and thus maintain an equilibrium. The laws of balance and counter-balance are in operation on the mental as well as on the physical planes, and an understanding of these laws enables one to seem to overthrow laws, whereas he is merely &quot;Nothing escapes the &quot;but there are many planes of causation, &quot;and one may use the laws of the higher &quot;to overcome the laws of By an understanding of the the Hermetists rise to a and thus counter-balance the laws of the lower planes of causation. By rising above the they become themselves, in a degree, causes instead of being merely caused. By being able to master and by being able to neutralize rhythm, as we have already explained, they are able to escape a great part of the operations of cause and effect on the ordinary plane. The masses of people are carried along, obedient to their environment. The wills and desires of others the effects of inherited tendencies, the suggestions of those about them, and other outward causes, about on the chess board By rising above these influencing causes, the advanced Hermetists seek a higher plane of mental action, and by dominating their and feelings, they create for themselves new characters, qualities, and powers, by which they overcome and thus become practically Such people help to play the instead of being moved by stronger influences They use the principle instead of being used by it. Of course, even the highest are subject to the principle as it manifests on the higher planes, but on the lower planes of activity, they are masters instead of slaves. As The Kybalion says, &quot;The wise ones serve on the higher, &quot;but rule on the lower. &quot;They obey the laws &quot;but on their own plane, &quot;they rule and give orders. &quot;And, yet, in so doing, &quot;they form a part of the &quot;The wise man falls in with the law, &quot;and by understanding its movements &quot;he operates it instead &quot;Just as does the skilled swimmer &quot;turn this way and that way, &quot;going and coming as he will, &quot;instead of being as the log &quot;which is carried here and there, &quot;so is the wise man as &quot;and yet both swimmer and &quot;are subject to law. &quot;He who understands this &quot;is well on the road to In conclusion, let us again call your attention to the Hermetic axiom, &quot;True Hermetic transmutation In the above axiom, the Hermetists teach that the great work of influencing one's environment is accomplished by mental power. The universe being wholly mental, it follows that it may be And in this truth is to of all the phenomena and manifestations of the various mental powers which are attracting so in these earlier years Back of and under the teachings of the various cults and schools, remains ever constant the principle of the mental substance of the universe. If the universe be mental then it follows that mental transmutation must change the conditions and phenomena of the universe. If the universe is mental, then mind must be the highest If this be understood, then all the so-called miracles and wonder workings are seen &quot;The All is mind. &quot;The universe is mental,&quot; The Kybalion. This video book presentation is a production of the Master Key Society, copyright 2021, Master Key Society.