Diana Prince, aka. Wonder Woman is one of the greatest heroines, but just how has her Live-Action design evolved through the decades? Let's lasso up her Evolution to find out! In "Who's Afraid of Diana Prince", Wonder Woman is a nerdy adult who lives with her argumentative mother. When fighting crime, she wears a frumpy red and blue ensemble with a yellow eagle emblem, dark blue arm-bracers, and a flimsy crown. She also imagines herself to be much more attractive than she really is, and has the ability to float. Although this series never got picked up, so let's move on. The 1974 TV Movie features a Blonde Wonder Woman, who wears a belted red shirt and skirt combo with blue sleeves covered in white stars. She has golden arm bracers and blue tights with matching boots. Although, she lacks any superpowers and failed to spawn a planned series - so we'll march forward. In the 1975 TV Show, Wonder Woman sports her signature red top with golden eagle emblem, a fully starred skirt - which quickly gets ditched for satin tights - red boots with an added white stripe, silver arm bracers, a tiara and a golden belt that is the source of her powers. She also occasionally wears a half-starred skirt and American flag cape, a golden mask, a western-inspired get-up, and paradise island training fatigues disguised with a blonde wig and eye mask. In the subsequent seasons, her suits eagle emblem is slimmer, her tights are shorter, her bracers are now gold, and she has an added jewel in her tiara. She's also seen in skateboarding attire, updated Paradise Island fatigues, as well as a wet suit that doubles as motorcycle riding gear. This Wonder Woman can apparently imitate voices, &quot;Hello There!&quot; Has super-hearing, and also has the ability to super jump, and boomerang her tiara. Plus, she always has her lasso of truth and invisible jet handy - and oh yeah, her sister - Wonder Girl, also occasionally helps her take on Nazis. Smallville's Lois Lane also sport a gladiator-style Wonder Woman costume, which looks amazing - but isn't actually Diana Prince, so let's keep going. The 2011 TV Pilot Wonder Woman dons blue tights with stars down the seam, a shiny tube top with a slim eagle emblem, long silver arm bracers and a thin tiara. Later on, she also sports miniscule briefs. To fund her crime-fighting she sells Wonder Woman action figures, but this pilot was deemed too poor to even air, so we'll change the channel. In Batman V Superman, Wonder Woman sports muted Amazonian styled armor, featuring a W shaped belt, silver accents, a bicep arm ring and a downward pointing tiara. She also has bandages on her hands, and when her arm bracers clash together, they emit devastating blasts. She is also armed with a shield and the Sword of Athena to help Superman and Batman take on Doomsday. In her solo film prequel, it is explained that Diana was possibly made of clay, and given life by Zeus. She is first seen as a young child, then youth, and finally an adult wearing beige training armor. She then sports her main armor, which is more saturated, lacks the silver accents and has the shield strap on the opposite shoulder. Armed with the God Killer Sword and sun emblem shield, she teams up with a band of soldiers to fight in World War 1. She then takes on her brother Ares, the God of War, with a lightning charged attack. In the sequel to BvS, Justice League, her armor adds the silver stripes back in, and this time she teams up with her super-friends to help take on Steppenwolf. In Wonder Woman 1984, her younger self is seen in a flashback sporting a training onesie to compete in competition. Her main armor lacks the silver accents and is more saturated. She is no longer armed with a shield or sword, but she can use her tiara as a boomerang, turn a jet invisible, lasso lightning and fly using air currents. She also sports impenetrable Golden armour, with added wings and an eagle shaped helmet to take on a cheetah-monstrosity, as well as a wish-granting egomaniac. And now - well - all we need an invisible jet that can fit all of these wonderful ladies! Thank you for watching the video, and as always, big shout out to the wonderful patrons. Don't forget to leave a like, and let us know if there are any other female heroines you'd like Aaron to animate, and in the meantime, check out some more Superhero evolutions, and our other wondrous animations on the channel.