The Moon is a harsh mistress, with an airless sunlight followed by the long night, but below shelter in that are greater in scope than Today we'll be examining the pros and cons places, along with asking what life inside Lava tubes are natural underground tunnels a planet or moon, or a larger asteroid for They are created when the surface of a lava beneath continues to flow. When the lava flow stops and drains away, As best as we can tell, most lunar volcanic but some activity was as recent as a billion Normally, where Earth is considered normal there's no continuing geological activity collapse them or fill them with sediment. Nor organic proceses inside to break them, and indeed on some planets lava tubes might but that life might damage those tunnels and This lack of destructive forces also means the ones we get on earth where they can be long. We think some on the Moon might be as much of miles long. We can spot these by various entries where basic notion is that you find such a tunnel, tube with air. This can be a short term base inside a small with oxygen, probably produced by taking oxides use and with oxygen as a waste byproduct. Or we could be looking at huge affairs with in and entire ecologies that we might transport We'll discuss such options in a bit, but Lava tubes are of significant interest for for several reasons: The Moon's surface is bombarded with cosmic of a protective atmosphere like Earth's. Lava tubes, being underground, provide natural In this regard it is much easier to create do not need to import or manufacture your enough to survive radiation and micrometeors. Radiation will generally be very rough on thus limit service lifetime. Temperature Stability: The Moon experiences very hot during the lunar day to extremely Needless to say, temperatures ranging from Sahara are not optimal for human habitation. Lava tubes maintain a more constant temperature habitats and sensitive equipment, and which need for heating and cooling. Structural Integrity: Lava tubes are believed &quot;roof&quot; and walls that could support lunar I think you would want to shore them up if but the far lower gravity on the Moon makes So, this would reduce the need for heavy construction that need to be fabricated on the Moon, since materials and don't need them on Day 1. Potential for Water Ice: Some lunar lava tubes, near the poles, may contain water ice deposits. As we've discussed in other episodes on if we have ice we not only have drinking water and even fuel production if it is in sufficient And unlike other scarce resources, we're of ice if it helps us develop in space, since an ocean of the stuff available for importation. Indeed, as we'll discuss next month in Colonizing those outer system moons than in all of Earth's Ice inside a lava tube is also easier to extract surface tanks. In zero or low pressure environments, there's substance can be a liquid, it is essentially together on its own because it is vibrating because some other gaseous materials around and it turns into a gas. And in an airless environment like the Moon ice and steam. Next is Scientific Exploration: Lava tubes treasures that could offer insights into the They also make great base camps for extended hole up inside one, maybe find ice for drinking potentially survive a lunar night without the lunar day. Speaking of that... Natural Habitats: Lava tubes could provide alterations to make them habitable, which from scratch. Much like caves in a mountain, lava tubes the Moon and logical first bases in a given Given that gravity is very low there, you including a dome over the skylight and solar underground lava tubes. Even stair cases hundreds of feet high on you're not doing them in a full spacesuit. In summary, lava tubes on the Moon could provide future human explorers and settlers, reducing materials and offering protection from the Now back in our episode the Domes of Mars underground facilities, and as we noted there have both, but the ratio will be very dependent we really don't know yet. Many of those disadvantages to underground the same on the Moons as Mars but there are that the day on Mars is basically the same Not so on the Moon, where the day is a month Two weeks of sunshine followed by two of darkness. Which means living in a dome on the surface Earth conditions except for a little lower We detailed those disadvantages more in that in regard to lava tubes on the Moon specifically, challenges: located in regions that are difficult to access We are not going to just land a spaceship idea for a number of reasons, nor are you spaceship on or next to it gives you immediate to be. So, to get to one includes challenges in both allows and entering them safely. This is why we usually see them as a phase land your first astronauts at to set up an Which brings up Structural Stability: While integrity could vary. Some may have weak spots or be prone to collapse, or lunar quakes. Again, trying to access them or land near Limited Natural Light: Inside a lava tube, weeks on and two weeks off the surface gets. Which would necessitate artificial lighting well-being of inhabitants. It's a bit debatable if they'd be a better since either one needs supplemental lighting, a plant can undergo low lighting, such as into growth when the lunar day begins again. So, a dome probably wouldn't need more than tube needs. Isolation and Confinement: Living in a lava space for extended periods, which could have This isolation could also make emergency evacuation Though I think the time in a cave is probably in a thin glass dome surrounded by a total Communication Challenges: Communicating with from within a lava tube, requiring relay systems On the Earth-side of the Moon, Earth is there same place in the sky varying depending on Getting a signal there is pretty easy, whereas feet of wire if not entire miles. There's also Environmental Unknowns: We beyond educated guessing, as we have never The environment inside a lava tube could present on the Moon surprised us during the Apollo There's also the question of not what they to have, like sturdy sides and ceilings. And off our own moon, they are the sorts of a planet or moon whose surface seemed otherwise Resource Availability: While some lava tubes like water ice, or a good place to build a This could necessitate long-distance travel adding complexity and risk. I sat through a talk by my friend Pascal Lee sites based on where we might get water ice, features, so very often a rover wanting to go miles out of the way just to get to spot It is easy to forget that the Moon is huge, than on Earth. I think we tend to assume after traveling like Mars that we can ignore those distances places to traverse even if you had a large whereas we are likely to be very limited in Here on Earth where moving is easier, we would I wanted to build my home was 'easy access Which takes us to Technological and Logistical tube would require advanced technology and This includes the transport of materials, of infrastructure for energy, waste management, In theory an inflatable dome can simply be from tanks. There's also Limited Expansion Potential: need, the size and shape of a lava tube might base. Like caves on Earth, they are not big enough This could be a significant constraint as Though they could potentially dig more tunnels in low gravity can be easier. Lack of Emergency Exits: In case of an emergency, especially if entrances and exits are few I think this is outweighed by the protective unless you're right by a skylight, in event to travel, at least one now blocked off. So, while lunar lava tubes provide some natural they also present a unique set of challenges technological solutions. All that said, they remain very attractive big enough for big communities, though the one there. Why live in a lava tube and why build a base And I don't just mean why you would live To settle the solar system you need a reason to moving off Earth, and to some godforsaken Cylinder orbiting it. Economically it probably means you're in maintain large power collectors. At least as the main lifeblood of the local doing just about anything, maybe even including of shops, retail stores, restaurants, teachers, police. So, let's take a visit to New Souterraine, from eastern Canada and New England, and it its way around the Eastern Edge of the Moon New Souterraine has something fairly rare of gold, found in the year 2149, and before several hundred tons of equipment dropped By the late 22nd century it also had the largest settlement on the Moon. The Gardens of New Souterraine are often loftily though mostly by their tourist bureau. At a population of 20,000. New Souterrains is a long skinny settlement quarter of a mile wide, with an estimated or 6400 acres. In addition to its handful of skylights, which have been added. These use a shifting filter to brighten and blue light is coming through to simulate time The sunset on the Moon, incidentally, is not effect. Running down one side of the colony, and about collectors that help run their refineries into molten salt thermal wadis for night time In tandem with a nuclear reactor, this helps at closer to that experienced on a cloudy New Souterraine holds the interesting title per capita in the Guinness Book of Solar Records. Shade plants tend to be most popular for personal artificial lighting to keep them thriving very popular, and often fed on nutrient mass 2 weeks of bright sun, such as algae. Domed Algae farms on the moon are rather common from the existing regolith and ice, and various plastic or fuels, and edible sources of protein are adapting to the Moon thus far. You can cycle up algae in domes when the sun 2 weeks later, and use the same personnel domed vats ready for their next round. The folk of New Souterraine do the same for the dark weeks then doing their energy intensive when the solar farms are producing. There's talk of more microwave power satellites to those in the dark weeks, and the settlement's last election on helping raise capital for The Cormier family is a trusted name in lunar as the Cormier family is among the original back then they were nestled in a smaller lava and were instrumental in prototyping both mineral extraction. They were pioneers, part of a grand experiment living. Their new home was a cylindrical habitat sealed The tube's entrance was a marvel of engineering, panoramic view of the stark lunar landscape. Inside, Luna Haven was a stark contrast to The interior was spacious, designed to mimic It even had a small garden, where genetically Serena and Baptiste Cormier, along with their quickly to their new life. Their days were structured yet varied, filled and homeschooling, since even remote teachers time. The family had to be self-sufficient, relying systems for air, water, and food. One of the most significant challenges was The Cormiers combated this with daily exercise simulated the natural progression of day and This helped them maintain their circadian growing, but they knew that was an uphill and agriculture more suited to their new home They had access to a vast collection of entertainment from light lag and bandwidth constraints. Despite these comforts, life on the Moon was The isolation was palpable. Communications with Earth were limited to them feel even more distant from their friends However, they found solace in each other's within their family and a handful of those and within instant communication range. For Camille and Leonardo, they learned about different parts of the lava tube with their These expeditions were the highlight of their venturing into unexplored sections. The most significant event for the Cormier in a remote section of the tube. This discovery was monumental, as it promised lunar settlers. Over time, the Cormier family became a team, and success of their mission. They were among the first to celebrate the and even shared their experiences to those of their major sources of funding and endowment. Unfortunately, Leonardo's plans to be the on Earth who was trained for it on the Moon proved too much for him, being used to only He returned to the Moon in 2148 rather depressed grateful when Camille encouraged him to go where they traveled further than ever before had the most cursory robotic surveying. This turned out to be where they found a gold in the rise of a reasonably self-sufficient Souterraine some years later to start her For Leonardo the journey was only beginning to Ganymede, Jupiter's largest Moon, but So how likely is this all to happen? Well, the good news is that robotic exploration with setbacks like landers tipping over on as NASA has often had an understandable reluctance Given all the risk and difficulties of even a spelunking journey exacerbates that quite But dropping a robot probe down into one is The exploratory module for that might need base with solar power and a transmitter could the probe, given that the low gravity makes your rope down one of those skylights too. Indeed Asugumo, a spider probe that was to designed with lava tubes in mind and unfortunately If you're curious, the name I'm probably that brings good luck, which might be appropriate which ended up burning up in Earth's atmosphere first draft. Fun sidenote, I was in Pittsburgh to give same week Peregrine was shipping out from and I were the last two guests to get to see Space is neither kind nor forgiving, so we and here's hoping their next launch later I am quite confident we'll see robots exploring full exploration may truly require a human I think that human presence returning - and and with it, in time perhaps, people living They're safe places we could build settlements space, but are they places people would want Let me know what you think in the comments We were talking about the difficulties of from earth today, education is a pretty big As we head towards summer break for the school a student or a parent, is trying to make sure long break. The best way to learn is daily and establishing important things you can do, both for personal That's where our friends at Brilliant can Brilliant helps you build real knowledge in whenever you have time. Brilliant focuses on fun and interactive learning, interactive lessons in science, math, data From simple to complex, whatever your skill your needs and lets you start where you should I've been using and recommending Brilliant running sponsor, and I've yet to hear a of satisfied customers. And you can try everything Brilliant has to or click on the link in the description. You'll also get 20% off an annual premium So next week we'll finish out the month colonizing white dwarf star systems, bringing systems, and their unique challenges with After that we'll start May up with a look Bracelet, a megastructure space habitat hundreds civilizations might build as an alternative And speaking of advanced civilizations, the look at the Interdiction Hypothesis of the out in the galaxy might leave large buffer might be inside one such empty buffer zone. If you'd like to get alerts when those and the like, subscribe, and notification buttons. You can also help support the show on Patreon, ways, you can see those options by visiting You can also catch all of SFIA's episodes Nebula, along with hours of bonus content As always, thanks for watching, and have a