[No-laughing Birthday Party] Aren't you Lee Dong-hwi? Yes yes I'm not Lee Dong-hwi (Lil baby steps) Gosh...why is he so short??? (Genuinely curious) Meh-heh-heh- (Staring) Ok then... What a great impression you have (Thanks) &lt;No Laughing Birthday Party&gt; Despite the cold weather, thank you so much to everyone despite all your busy schedules Whenever we feel like you've laughed, you'll be given a yellow card If you laugh a bit more, you get an orange card [Clack- Clack-] And if it gets worse You get a red card Can you see that space up there? &lt;Let yourself free here ZONE&gt; Smile Free Zone Wait, was it smile free zone? Free Smile Zone I was told last time that the English was wrong Anyway... That... Please make your way out to the Free Smile Zone [Clack-] Actually, today, many peo... [Clack-] [Rustle-] (Continue dude...) Actually, today, many people Yeah Here we go again Meh-heh-heh- Everyone's started right? I think many people here today is looking forward to seeing him make his way more than the birthday party itself Please welcome him with big applause, without any smiles Today's birthday star, please come out Today's birthday person has come out (Exits) (Comes back) [Thump- Thump-] (Applause) [Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap-] I'm sure it's the same with many people here today Today is also my first time seeing Byeon Woo-seok in person But honestly..... Seeing him up close, he's even... More handsome I can feel the aura Thank you so much for inviting me today How tall are you? My height is... 187cm... Actually, it's 190cm That's practically the same Nice to meet you, I hope you all enjoy your time today with Mr. Seo Soo-nam And I'm very grateful that many guests came to Byeon Woo-seok's birthday party Shall we ask how he feels about this?? Uh... Hmm... Thank you so much for... [Gosh...-] I'm just so moved, I'm tearing up It really is moving, isn't it (Moved) (Holding his breath) Sigh... Maybe we should give a round of applause as a show of support? (Swish swish) (Wiping) Thank you so much for coming all this way I'll really enjoy the celebration by all of you today Thank you The No Laughing Byeon Woo-seok's Birthday Party is joined by very grateful people Let's start with a refreshing mindset with refreshing things The moment you eat it, Also known as a must-have item after meals, right? Is this fate too? ECLIPSE has newly launched mint candy and provided it for us everyone First, compared to the existing peppermint product. it boasts a higher mint content for even more enhanced refreshment It's the intense mint hard mint candy! Feel free to help yourselves It's placed right on your desks It's also something I enjoy eating on a regular basis It's refreshing, right? [In you go!] (Saw it...) It's refreshing... The scent is coming all the way over here... Oh... yes.. Yes and right next to it is something with a chewy texture The cooling soft chew candy with lychee fragrance You can enjoy a refreshing finish tropical fruit lychee fragrance and chewy texture Wanna try this too? But... Among the new products Is there a lamb flavor? It's refreshing Wow, you're eating a lot The tall gentleman at the end, how does this one taste to you? [Grr-ah-] Could you please sit and tell us? (Fascinated) It's chewy and sticky Thank you For me, it seems like the I think I'll stock up a lot at home Right now, at the official Korean Mars website, there's a special benefit promotion with up to 20% off I hope you all buy a lot And taste this freshness, coolness, stickiness, and chewiness We'll now officially kick this party off You can briefly introduce yourselves Or if you have a special talent feel free to show off something you'd like to share Can I ask you to go first? Do I just hold this up? Yes! You're so pretty!! Hello, I am Sammi I came to celebrate Woo-seok's birthday today but Ugh..... just a moment It's hot (Barking) (Oh gosh...) The zipper sometimes... doesn't open My hair got caught in the zipper... You seem to have a lot of it I'll do it Wow, sexy Happy birthday Woo-seok oppa After the birthday party ends, let's have a drink just the two of us without Byung-jae... High five! Thank you Thank you Thank you Yangbaecha for taking time out of your busy schedule today Are you gonna stay like that...? I feel like you'll get an upset stomach You'll catch a cold It's ok oppa Byung-jae is loving it (So close from getting a warning) (Yellow card) Alright, now the next person.. [Don't hit yourself...] Can you hold the mic? Yes, I am a web-drama director from Busan Wow It's called Ooh-ah Studio Nice to meet you I have... as a personal skill You know the... APT. song that's been trending recently? I'll try doing a bit of that It would be great if you could all join me Two, two, three, four A random game Woo-seok likes Game~ Starts! (Oh gosh....) (Oh no...stop...) (Someone stop him....) Apateu Apateu- Apateu Apateu- Uh huh uh huh Apateu Apateu- Apateu Apateu- Uh huh uh huh Great, thank you (Squeal) (Survived this) It seems like you're crying (Yellow card) Huh? You're not gonna fix it back...? Oh should I??? (Fixing it) [Gosh...-] (All neat again) Ok, on to the next person now.... I will simply Sing a congratulatory song for Byeon Woo-seok's birthday (Curious) Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you (Polite) Happy birthday to you Wow... But I suddenly feel like this could be a fantastic collaboration I'm really looking forward to this Could you give us the beat and could you sing APT. again for us? That would be fine Apateu Apateu- Apateu Apateu- Apateu Apateu- Apateu Apateu- Uh huh uh huh Thank you Um... could you use my head for the beat... Please come up when it's your turn Don't just step forward Oh, hello I... prepared a birthday song Could I sing it for you? Of course (Nervous) (Nervous too) Happy birthday to you But I'm curious Could you do the APT. song with that voice? APT.??? Yes, I can Then please do so Aparteu ap.... Oh, I'm sorry Two, two, three, four Apateu Apateu- Apateu Apateu- Thank you for that Someone joined us... midway.... Can you lift up the MIC So that Woo-seok can hear? Is the volume ready??? Huh?! Woah!! Hello I'm from Charles Entert.... Eh- Eun... Eun- Ttaa Lee Charles from Charles... Enter... Me-heh-heh-heh- (End of self-intro) Oh... yes The communication situation isn't great so... Byeon Woo-seok, you must know Oh yes She reviewed our drama in such a fun way I also watched it and reacted along with it I'm a huge fan and I really like her Oh wow We have a tall gentleman joining us Nice to meet you I'm Min-soo Son, that likes to be Ryu Sun-jae I will... Show a little personal skill Without using my hands, I'll move one nostril You don't mean that's actually possible? (Looking forward to it) (Starting) [Chop- Chop- Chop- Chop..] But again your hands are so tiny I wonder how you'll receive it That's so touching Hello, I am Flutist Kim Sori So pretty I'll play you Sudden Shower for a breif moment With your nose??? (ECLIPSE - Sudden Shower) (Breathing in) Can't see, can't see (Red card) Oh... she might feel dizzy But she played it with her nose It's been a while since someone received a red card Huh??? Meh? Meh-heh-heh-heh-heh~~~ Hello You can talk...? I'm a sheep that escaped from Kimcheon Farm She's eating lamb skwers next to a lamb... Wanna have some?? Meh-heh-heh-heh!!! I eat pork (A E I O U) Hello (Prrrrrrr) (Focusing) [*Mailbox : Byeon Woo-seok fandom name] Is it... not a piggy bank, a piggy bank? I'm a fan of Sun-jae... (Pleased) Sun-jae Sun-jae! Here you were... (Sniff) Sunji!!! (Lost for words) Sunji!!! Thank you (Nibble) Huh???? It's dimsum Huh???? Dimsum dimsum Hello, I'm Jung Ji-sun, the Queen of Dimsums Wow... Since it's Woo-seok's birthday, I'll make you sweet sugar strings I'm looking forward to it (I've met her before) That's impressive [Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap-] (That looks yummy) I am... They wrote Lee Dong-hwi here but I'm not Lee Dong-hwi I'll introduce myself again starting off with my name (Confused) Sigh..... Yoo Byung-jae, you $%#% @#^&amp;*! You've changed the name Have you changed the name? Is that so? - Yes, it's originally... Should I do it once more?? Yes, please Yoo Byung-jae, you $%#% @#^&amp;*! (Holding it in) This kinda thought... crosses my mind I mean I know how to swear too bloody fXXXXXX Sorry for our young viewers But it's just our language Lee Dong-hwi asked me to convey his congratulations (Erm...) to Woo-seok Woo-seok (Moved) I really didn't (Teary/Looking away) expect to meet you here I don't really... Sigh.... I don't really know why... I'm here to be honest But I really wanted to join because I'm so happy for you I really hope you can come to see the premiere for my film &lt;Method Acting&gt; which is soon to be released So I want to propose using this opportunity Woo-seok, I love you so much And I always hope you're happy And today many people like literally came here despite their busy schedules to celebrate his birthday And each of them, talents, or their situations, used a lot of different things to make us laugh I haven't seen it myself but if you too have something like a personal skill or whatever... Do you have something to show to everyone? I... can move my eyes quite fast (The crowd is buzzing) I'm really looking forward to it When you're all ready Thanks for that... (Shy) We have a special corner now Everyone here likes Byeon Woo-seok, right? Yes So for everyone... we now have a lottery ball coming up [Lottery Ball] To the person who gets selected you get a chance to hug Seon-jae! When you're ready, pick any ball... Please Which number is it? 2 Yes, come up on stage This way please Oh wow, what's with holding hands I smell cigs... One two three Please!!!! SUN SUN SUN SUN SUN It's Byung-jae No thanks. If there's anyone who wants to challenge (ME) Shall we invite Loopy? Please spin it big One two three Oh!!!!!!!!! It stopped!!! Is someone behind that? If you don't want to, you can just go (Thanks-) Yes... We have another event... This time, we have a cheek-heart selfie time with Woo-seok [Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap- Clap-] Woo-seok's cheek-heart was a big topic, right? How do you do it? Like this kinda vibes Wow... Who will be the lucky winner? (Rustling) Number 5 Come to the stage I'm jealous When you're ready One two three and spin it!! One two three (Murmuring) Heosuk? Cheek-heart selfie... Do you have your phone ready? I like Woo-seok.... (Trudging) (Glancing) The Prince of Asia!!! Congratulations on Byeon Woo-seok's birthday Congratulations Thank you I sincerely congratulate you on your birthday I'll just say one thing before I go I was knocked out in the 3rd round at the Boxing for the Visually Impaired I have a habit of dropping my guard - You said you'd just say one thing... - You said you'd just say one thing Since it's a South Korea-Japan match. please support me Loyalty!!!!! Congratulations on Byeon Woo-seok's birthday (The end) That's it for today Byeon Woo-seok's No Laughing Birthday Party That's all we have Today, for the third time, I'll ask again Let's hear your thoughts one more time It's okay to laugh now, right? Honestly... It was so funny I didn't know where to look Thanks to that, I think I had a very happy birthday Thank you [*Actor Byeon Woo-seok's official fan cafe &quot;Mailbox&quot;] We also prepared this together Now, we'll all sing a birthday song together Two, two, three, four Happy birthday to you To our beloved Woo-seok Happy birthday to you Happy birthday Thank you [Happy birthday Byeon Woo-seok [We have a cookie!] Excuse me Excuse me Is it over? Mr..! Mr!!!! Is the birthday party over? No... Who decided it's over This is your present Gifted by the heavens Ta-da- [November 23, 5pm