Well, I'm Amy Nickell and everyone on social media knows my husband and I because we travel six months out of the year and our Airstream with our Australian Shepherd, Roxy. So we go all over the US and into Canada. He, you know, he loves nature. I love nature, so we're like with our jobs we are like, what better way to, you know, really see the world than do that and be able to take our little fur baby with us. So with my background in photography and he just loves nature, it's just a really good combo. Well, I was not the best when it came to sun protection growing up and also could be back then. We all were not very aware that laying out getting that perfect tan was really going to cause all these issues in the future, because back then everyone was like, oh, you have to look tan or you look sick. Other words. And I was super, super pal with my complexion and my background and all that. So I really went against what I should have done for my skin. And at age eight, I got a really bad sunburn. And my mother had noticed since that sunburn that I got this really weird design on my right arm and on my right back. It looks kind of like a birthmark. And she took me to the doctor's, though, like, no, it's fine. It's just a reaction to the sun. Kind of like a birthmark. But my mom's like, she wasn't born with it. I know, but it's just a reaction. So they just kind of pushed to the side. And then in my teens, laying out with oil to try to get that tan, I didn't do tanning beds, but laid out for hours on end every single day to try to get that tan and had multiple sunburns because of it. And then when I was about 17, was the first time I went to a dermatologist because my mom noticed that that design on my arm and my back was getting like ten times darker than my actual complexion. And then she also was noticing a lot of moles forming, like, all around it. And only in the actual design itself. So she she's like, we need to get you to like, a dermatologist. Like, what is that? She's like, it's a skin doctor and they're going to know what's going on. So they just started watching my skin at 17 and we're doing biopsies and they were coming back. Atypical dysbiosis me this every single one of them that they had done no melanoma. but I didn't take it very serious even though I was having multiples of like mild moderate some severe and having excision at such a young age, I didn't really know much as to, okay, they're just taking it off and not putting the two and two together. Not until I got older and was 28 years old and had to start going every three months to every 3 to 6 months to my dermatologist and UCLA. And she gave me the little, little ABC thing. And I took it home. And then I started, like, reading it. I'm like, mom, maybe I should, you know, start really looking at all of these spots all over my body. And with my photography, I was always outside and I was in tank tops and no hat. Probably not sunscreen. I doubt I had sunscreen on and out for hours on end with clients photographing them. And so one day I started having this spot right here on my upper right chest itch, and it was like, I'm like, maybe I have an allergic reaction because my skin sensitive. But it started to itch and bleed. This one spot that was kind of a lot bigger and pretty dark compared to all the other spots. And so I'm looking at the ABC thing. I'm like, maybe I should call my dermatologist. And I did. They got me in. She looked at it, she was like, well it's not like super like inflamed or anything, but what biopsy it if you really want to on like, well your little checklist says technically we should. So she's like yeah we'll do it. She did. Within three days she called me saying, well, I'm glad you followed my little ABC flier thing that I had given you because it came back as melanoma, stage one B and it was really close to changing to stage two. And she said that we're going to have to get you one right away to get a wide excision done. And that was in 2016. So they didn't do moles but they did a wide excision on my melanoma at UCLA. So then that kind of woke me up because when she called my husband was in a meeting, I was actually in our bedroom putting clothes away, doing laundry. And after I got off the phone with her, I'm like, melanoma. And so then I started to actually Google, which you shouldn't Google. And I'm like, oh my, this is like serious and then I started to really like shift my whole mindset of maybe I should start wearing the tank tops outside hats on and all of that. So when they did the surgery, it was like a really good scar. My husband was able to be there with me. They got me in within like the week, like she called me on a Monday. I was having the surgery on Thursday and he was there. I had to I didn't want to watch it. I just looked at the swelling because I don't do good with blood. But he watched the whole thing, and when he took out the area that he needed to, the surgeon, my husband joked like, wow, that can go like on the grill. And I was like, oh, come on, no. But he when he saw all that himself, he also changed his whole mindset because he's not originally from the US. He is from Greece. So in Greece, Mediterranean, they're always out in the sun. No protection. They don't even know what a dermatologist like. They don't go to a dermatologist or wear sunscreen. So he even like seeing all of that firsthand. It will come up because he's really active outdoors. He mountain bikes, he rode bikes. So he's he's covered in like, you know, the sun is always seeing his skin. And he does have like some freckles and stuff on his body, but not a lot. And so he woke up with that. So that was my first real wake up call with melanoma. And my dermatologist educated me with some clothing companies to like, you know, invest in to get UPF 50 clothing, which I did, and I started changing out my wardrobe. Get rid of all the little skirts and little tank tops and stuff, and I will never step foot outside ever again with no sleeves on, even if it's like 120. Because living in Nevada, we have really hot summers and people look at me kind of funny, like, why are you wearing that? Like, it's because of the sun. And you really need the protection. If you don't have sunscreen on, you're going to be screwed. So with all of that, I really started to change my clothing wearing sunscreen. Going to the dermatologist every three months was vital with us living in Las Vegas, I had to switch from UCLA, from California because that's where I'm originally from. Get all of my actual doctors here in Vegas. As my doctors at UCLA said, it's probably a wise idea because you did have melanoma at such a young age. We want you to, you know, just get someone there because the the risk are there that it could come back or new ones could happened. So I listened to them and found a dermatologist here in Vegas, went off of all the reviews and everything, and with my knowledge, I, you know, I don't just trust everyone. For one, I went for my three month with him, him, him, and I did not agree on a lot of things. He kind of looked at me as you're young, you don't know what you're doing type of thing, you don't know your skin. And I agree, like, yes, you're my doctor and everything, but I also had to go with my gut and advocate for myself. And when it got to the point that I had to pick a biopsy over another biopsy because he wouldn't do them both in one setting, I got really upset as I had a previous biopsy done with him. June 2018. It was on my arm, so my first melanoma is here in June. In 2016 and June 2018, he had me pick a spot that I noticed that grew and it was itching. It was having the same behavior as my very first melanoma, which was kind of concerning, but it didn't look like, you know, online. They looked ugly and dark. It just had the uneven edges and had a different color in the actual spots. Wasn't black, it just had a different tone of brown in the actual spots. So I was looking like that's not what it should look like. It itches. And so I kind of pushed him. I'm like, can you please biopsy it? He's like, it looks fine. We'll just watch it. I'm like, I really don't feel comfortable with that staying there. So he did finally biopsy it and then he called me a week later saying that it's moderate a typical dysbiosis me this, which I've had multiple in the past. And he's like, well, I will see you in a year. And I'm like, wait, at UCLA, they would have done a wide excision because of my history of melanoma. Plus, I'm supposed to see you every three months. Not in a year. Well, I'm fully booked. I'll see you whenever you can get in. And then he hung up and I was like, well, my husband was like, well, what are you going to do? I'm like, I'm gonna call the office back and I'm going to get an appointment. So I called the office back right away and I'm like, what was the pathology report? Did it? All the edges were clear and everything there like it was clear enough. He doesn't want to do a wide excision. He knows what he's doing. I'm like, okay, I understand that. Can I please get in to see him within three months? Because that's when I'm due for my, you know, follow up? No, we're fully booked out. The next available is going to be February 2019. I'm like, oh my gosh, that's eight months. And I kept calling every week to try to get in for like a cancellation and I couldn't. And in the meantime, in that eight month time, span that spots that he had previously removed, it came back. It grew back over the scar that had formed. And so I was getting nervous. And I also noticed in this at the same time with that one growing another spot like across from it actually started growing. And I'm like, oh great, there's two. And I'm like, I know what the one is, is a moderate. But like, why is it growing back and everything? They said they got everything out. So why why is it going back? So I finally see him in February 2019. He was of course his lovely self. I think bedside manners were not his cup of tea, which is okay. so I was like the spot grew back. He's like, what spot? Unlike the spot that you had removed in June that was moderate dysbiosis nevus oh yeah. That's normal. I'm like okay well it grew back. And with my history of melanoma I don't really feel comfortable that it grew back. Can we please biopsy it. Yeah we can I guess. But you should just watch it. I'm like well I don't feel comfortable watching it. And I'm like at the same time I'm like, can you also biopsy the one across from it? He's like, well, I don't have time to biopsy them both. Pick one. I was like, whoa. And like, my insurance covers both. But I understand you're busy, so I will pick the one that grew back since I know that was something at least I can have. Like a peace of mind that it's nothing still. So I was like, okay, so he biopsies that one. I get a call from him within four days himself. Not usually. He was like his nurse in the past and stuff, and he was like, oh well, at least you, you know, you pushed me on it. It's melanoma. And I'm like, are you kidding me? That one came back melanoma. It was moderate. And I thought, oh, the edges were clean. He was like, yeah, it's melanoma. And so I like I got upset, but I kept my cool with them and I was like, okay well what stage melanoma is. It was my next fear. He's like, I don't know. I'm like, you don't know. What does my past report you have show? Like what's the Clark level like? I my other melanoma had a Clark level of three. What Clark level is this one. Like what's the depth like is do you not know stage like it should be all right there. At least you could tell by the depth of it. Oh I don't know. I'm going to refer you to a most surgeon. So best of luck and I will see you in a year. And I was like, oh my gosh. So I got transferred from his facility to another facility who are absolutely amazing. And I feel like everything happens for a reason. And I'm so happy that I was sent to this other facility to get the surgery, because their type of care was like above and beyond. They took me in like right away. They explained everything because I'm I go in there, I have no idea what stage it is and like my fear is like, did it go to my lymph nodes? What actually has happened. So they the most surgeon? He was amazing. It took six hours to keep cutting because it was really deep. It was a Clark level of size. So he said that one was more close to stage two than my first one was. And he was shocked because it was a moderate atypical the spasticity this what she said the odds are so low for ever changing into melanoma. But yours did. And he said it did it in eight months. If it would have been left, it would have been stage two, he said. Within a matter of a month or two or sooner, he said, you don't know because melanoma is weird. So he took it out six hours of cutting until he finally got a clear margins all around. It stitched me back up on my arm. And while he was in the last round of cutting, I was like, is there any way you could look at the other spot that's like across from it's. And he was like, of course. And he's like, I don't like how that looks. I'm like, thank you. That one has been kind of concerning me too. He's like, I can cut it off. Is there anything else you need cut off? Because I can literally cut off as many things as you need. I'm like, take whatever off, like any spots that you see off. So he did. And within a week that one came packaged stage melanoma. And he was shocked. He was like, okay, that's not good. He's like, you need to get established with us. You need to leave the other dermatologist because obviously he didn't have your best interest at heart. And I agreed. So I just moved every like my whole team to that facility, got a dermatologist through them, and I started seeing them every three months, not every six or a year. Every three months. And that dermatologist, she's amazing. She actually was like, you need to get in with an oncologist now. I'm like, why? I don't have like, it didn't go to my lymph nodes. It hasn't like spread. She's like, no. But in such a short time period you've had three. There's something going on that your body's producing them and we need to get to the bottom of it. So the fall of 2019, which is that end of the year that I got the two other melanomas because one I got in February 2019, 2019, and then a month later, March 2019, is when they found the other one right across from it. And they had to do most with that one too. And so those two are back to back. So by September 2019, I saw an oncologist and then got established with him. Did my first ever Pet scan. Everything was clear. There was no hidden like melanoma, nothing, which was a really godsend. And then he was like, we need to do genetic testing because I really feel with you having this weird design, there's something going on. So we did the genetic testing and it did show I carried two cancer gene mutations. I don't know the names of them off the top of my head, but those two both carry very high risk for ovarian, breast and pancreatic cancer. Both of them on top of in that group. Melanoma is very common for people with having those risk and those cancers is what I was told. But on top of it, I have a connective tissue disease called Ehlers-Danlos and it's type six, and they have found links to patients that have had Ehlers-Danlos with the connective tissue disorder, that you are higher risk for having complications and issues with melanoma. Your body wants to reduce it. There's a mutation and my body is wanting to produce melanoma. So I have had to change my diet, not only live my lifestyle, that's wearing clothing to protect me from the sun, but also my diet. Yes, there are like, you know, some doctors are like, no sugar, doesn't feed cancer. And some will say, yes, it does. But my oncologist and the whole team that I have have said to stay away from sugar because yours wants like anything that can have it, will attack it and will like want it to like produce these mutations to produce the melanoma. So I have like really low sugar intake. The only sugar that I get is from fruits, lots of veggies. making sure I walk daily. So if you have a doctor that you may butt heads with or don't agree with what they're saying, don't get defensive with them or question them personally. Do your research and get a second opinion. But don't stop thinking that you're losing your mind or overthinking. Go with your gut. If you feel something is off, listen to your inner gut and go with it. Because at the end of the day, you are the one that sees your body daily. You know how you feel. You know how you should feel. They do know what they're talking about. The doctors they have, you know, for the most part, you know, they don't want something to go wrong with you, but they don't see your body daily or know you personally. They know what to do to treat you and stuff. But if you feel that what you are being told is not matching to what you feel should be done, get a second opinion is my best advice.