This is Hell Creek, Montana. 68 million years ago, a small T rex died somewhere its bones which turned its body into a T rex In the year 2000, scientists dug it out of and some of it to a paleontologist named Mary When she first saw those bone samples, she than normal bone. So she put the sample in an acidic solution After a few days, the sample had completely But it left something interesting, a bendable, and a tough connective tissue called collagen see in normal bones.. /That/ was not supposed to be possible. Up until this point, we'd only seen /evidence/ It was thought that this kind of tissue would organism died, but here they were millions Naturally, the paleontology community was Shweitzer dipped her vintage collagen in a the collagen that stayed strong for 68 million And some scientists think enzymes like collagenase But how do they know that? First some background. Left by itself, collagen will break down eventually. But adding an enzyme makes that breakdown And that's enzymes' whole thing. They speed up chemical processes by a lot. Look at one process that we do all the time: dioxide as a byproduct, blood, some attaches to the hemoglobin in into carbonic acid so it can be transported Again, that conversion can happen unassisted, get rid of, so we need to find a way to do Without a catalyst, this reaction happens But add an enzyme called carbonic anhydrase, every second, that's about a million times Enzymes are so useful because they can speed in our day to day physiology to the ones we ACE inhibitors like benazepril or lisinopril ACE stands for angiotensin converting enzyme, So when angiotensin is converted via this By inhibiting this enzyme, you're encouraging pressure and that's what these drugs do. There ya go. They're not just useful for dinosaur tissues. Enzymes are everywhere! And you can usually spot enzymes because they Lipase, helicase, maltase. All are enzymes and end in -ase. And those prefixes usually tells you what Lipase breaks down lipids. Helicase unravels the DNA helix. And Maltase breaks maltose into glucose. No matter what enzyme in the human body you're happen faster. And for decades, classical mechanics has offered work. Big picture here -- some of our physiology We often use this graph with energy on the on the x axis. Without the energy to get over this hill, In 1948, an American scientist named Linus the energy hill because of how they fit together See, each enzyme is specially built to bind kind of like puzzle pieces. But enzymes aren't a perfect fit until the a little bit to fit really tightly together. When they do, the enzyme-substrate combo is it break the chemical bonds of that substrate, Afterwards, the substrate turns into the products reactions. This general concept still holds to modern so the reaction happens faster. No quantum chemistry needed, classic chemistry Fast forward to 1966, researchers at the University classical models, so they explained it with They observed a photosynthetic bacteria that When it's exposed to light, it photosynthesizes the molecules around it. This reaction was shown to be temperature Hotter conditions increased reaction speeds, Adding an enzyme into the mix still increased could be influenced by temperature. Here's where things get interesting, that low temperatures. Like way below zero Celsius. To figure out how this worked, they came up super fast, high energy laser at these bacteria happen. They fired their laser at the bacteria and They found that as they dropped the temperature, -173oc at which point the reaction speed hit anymore. This plateau happened all the way down to So the reaction still had to climb over some the enzyme shouldn't be able to lower the cold temperatures. In their paper, they proposed that enzymes the hill, maybe they were burrowing through This was the first experimental evidence that temperature dependent biological phenomenon. Now I'm not even going to pretend to be to hand it over to Jade from the youtube channel Take an every day classical scenario, like, If the object isn't given enough energy back down. It doesn't matter how many times you try, energy, it will never get over that hill. Things are different in quantum land. If a particle doesn't have enough energy make it through to the other side. This is because of a phenomenon called wave-particle See in the quantum realm, particles sometimes like waves. This wave represents the probability of them So instead of a particle traveling toward Now when this wave hits the barrier, unlike rebounded, a tiny tiny fraction of the wave Now because this wave represents the probability tiny probability that the electron will end So sometimes, even when a quantum particle because of its dual wave like nature, we can The results of that experiment in the 60s more like waves than particles, at least at Now, electrons are really tiny which makes like protons or neutrons. But about a third of the enzymes out there atoms, which are mostly proton. So the next challenge for quantum biologists In 1989, a team of researchers led by Judith this happens thanks to something called the Atoms get their identity based on how many Hydrogen has one proton, carbon has six, neon But atoms can have different numbers of neutrons that atom. Hydrogen atoms usually have one neutron, but three neutrons. The interesting chemical properties of an Changing its neutrons won't change its reactivity how quickly it reacts, hence kinetic in kinetic Assuming all other conditions stay the same, ought to result in a slower reaction rate.. Classical mechanics can predict how much faster isotope and give it a numerical value. I'm not gonna confuse you with the calculations that can be predicted. Klinman was interested in an enzyme called this reaction, a hydrogen atom is transferred Replacing the lightest isotope,with the heavier But from a quantum perspective, as soon as atom, the ability for it to tunnel drops significantly. For Klinman, the heavier hydrogen isotopes Sure enough, that's exactly what her group Protium was catalyzed so much faster than research group, it had to be acting more like be tunneling. Now, this experiment was conducted at 25oc, kicker here. Life happens at warm temperatures from a quantum The warmer the temperature, the less likely It's something called quantum decoherence. So in follow up experiments published in 2004, and reaction and found that above 30oc, the mechanics. No quantum mechanics needed. So At the sub zero temperatures where enzyme cold for life to thrive, so is any of this Well, sure, it's relevant. But instead of simply bestowing my blessing want to draw a more nuanced conclusion. If we revisit Mary Schweitzer and the T rex Collagenase catalyzed the separation of chemical of years. For the temperature and enzymes involved quantum from tunneling, so our dinosaur model probably For the temperature and enzyme involved, quantum from tunneling, so our dinosaur example probably To give this model some credit, there are of enzymes. And maybe these initial experiments are the might help us answer them someday. The books and papers that I read to research quantum biology is the coolest thing ever, more complicated than that. There is some evidence that some enzymes use But that's all we can say. For now. If you're sitting there thinking "dang, then go check out the video Jade and I made sure to subscribe to her, she's really good And thank you to my Patrons on Patreon. I couldn't do it without ya. To everyone else, like the video, subscribe notified when I post new videos. Have fun, be good. See you next time!