Thank you to 80,000 Hours, a project of From hoverboards to flying cars to cloud cities, our dream of a less Earth-bound future. But a purely attractive force. Feels like surface of this lonely rock. But maybe if we from science fiction. So for the sake of our flying physicists have wondered whether a experience gravitational repulsion from and physicists at CERN have just completed to answer a seemingly simple question: does -- Antimatter--the evil twin of regular matter. Or matter? We've made it in labs and seen that quantum properties compared to its regular same is its mass. Except it may be that in at opposite to regular matter--and that fact may profound truths about the nature of reality. not as one property of an object, but rather as inertial mass--the resistance to being shoved which determines the heft of your gravitational Now we've explored an aspect of this idea for the studious, or a good followup episode for anti-matter and the flying car implications Let's start with Isaac Newton's description of later. Inertial mass is the mass in Newton's need to apply to achieve a give acceleration. On Newton's law of universal gravitation. It acts as of the gravitational field and the strength of assume that inertial mass and gravitational called the equivalence principle. We normally the epiphany that led Einstein to his general A hundred years ago, Einstein realized that distinguish between the feeling of weight you and the same feeling when being accelerated at of the equivalence principle requires that the same as gravitational mass--the mass But over 300 years prior to Einstein, this thing when he dropped a pair of balls had different weights but the same size that they reached the ground at the same the near-vacuum of the Moon's surface with a Around a century after Galileo's Pisa-drop, equations that tell us why. Let's say that law is the same as the inertial mass when we calculate the acceleration experienced these two masses cancel out. In other words, more harder to accelerate. Because of this, hammers Gravity is always attractive because gravitational electromagnetism, which can be attractive or or negative. So what happens if we allow mass to in our previous video, but long story short two negative masses repel each other, negative mass while the negative mass part means a positive and negative mass would rate forever. That breaks conservation of The thing that really breaks physics in this mass, which will always move in the wrong we can fix this by separating our mass types. gravitational mass can be positive or negative. masses will mutually repel each other, which we say that inertial and gravitational mass equivalence principle. We should not do that axioms of general relativity, which is itself an for the type of repulsive gravity we're looking Speaking of general relativity, let's see how explained as mass causing the fabric of space and to that curvature. In the classic rubber sheet sheet causing straight lines to deflect towards masses would be depicted by pinching the sheet This picture makes it somewhat intuitive why the shape of the gravitational field--which itself central object. Objects follow geodesics--the of their own mass. In fact we can also think of canceling out, just like with Newtonian gravity. geodesic equation, which is the equation of motion mass of the moving object doesn't appear in equation. But it's actually hidden. If we separate And the geodesic equation also tells us how interact. We're going to keep inertial mass negative gravitational masses change the sign mass of the interacting particle or both. If the minus signs get canceled and we have only one of those masses is negative between the field and the object. The In other words, something with would fall upwards in Earth's gravitational field. OK, great, so to make an antigravity engine So what's all this about antimatter particle has the same mass but is opposite in many quantum properties. has the same mass as regular matter remember we just broke the equivalence maybe antimatter can have positive inertial Two reasons we might think this is the the electromagnetic field we know antimatter actually measured its gravitational mass. Well, tell you the results in a bit. But we've had there are theoretical motivations for thinking mass. To understand this, we need to understand Antimatter is what you get when you take flip its charge, reflect its spatial coordinates and reverse its time axis--which is equivalent transformations are called charge time reversal, and applied together we have matter and it becomes antimatter. And of course Most physicists think that our universe although the laws of physics change if you if you perform all three together the same. CPT-transform the universe and you exactly the same laws of physics But there's at least one big reason and that's because almost all of the with hardly any antimatter. In a perfectly probably should have been created in equal found out that CPT symmetry is broken, and how it But I digress. We're here to build a flying help us here too. If this symmetry is true then under CPT transformation--so an antimatter including the equations of general relativity. to the geodesic equation you get some minus flip the dimensions of space, etc. But the same equation you started with. That's mutually-gravitating objects to antimatter. we can't even say if they both have positive long as they have the same sign of mass. General But what happens if you CPT-transform only pair of masses into antimatter. The exact is still being debated, but at least some the geodesic equation is to introduce a minus depending on which you turn into antimatter. But of the gravitational masses negative. So, of general relativity gives antimatter that this is a contested interpretation, but the result would be gravitational repulsion and hoverboards. At the very least it's worth finding out whether anti-matter falls up or down? Whether for the awesomeness of our vehicular future or just to see if there's any weirdness in the gravitational interaction of antimatter that could poke holes in CPT-symmetry and So, let's get to the experiment finally. What And to start with, why is it so hard to do this apples. Antimatter is extremely hard to create it encounters regular matter. At best we have the fact that the gravitational force is so weak if we wanted to measure the effects of gravity gravitational field, it would be like trying body exerts on a feather. Not that astronauts your body here on Earth exerts on that feather we analyze will be subject to vastly greater and this becomes an intensely difficult So this is a CERN experiment that has been years production line by the ALPHA collaboration. This 100s of stable anti-hydrogen, consisting of a collaboration, ALPHA-g, then takes these atoms and sounds simple, but it's an extremely delicate of the gravitational force on these atoms and the all just tinkle downwards. Some move up, some move rate and timing of anti-hydrogen atoms that reach regular hydrogen, the relative gravitational And after the first run of the that acceleration is ... downwards. Yup, up. That likely dashes our hopes of However there is tentative evidence for force may be slightly weaker on these hydrogen. This fairly preliminary data of the anti-hydrogen 0.75 plus or minus 0.13 times that fall a bit slower. That actually sounds like a big difference, but it's less than a 3 sigma result, so could be a fluke. In fact the scientists of the ALPHA-g paper do claim that the gravitational acceleration of antimatter is consistent That's because misleading sub-3-sigma results really unexpected like this, it's much more we're dealing with only 100s of atoms here so That said, if there is a difference in the antimatter it would be extremely exciting. It would mean that the universe treats perhaps explaining why there's the quantities of each. ALPHA will and ALPHA-g will continue to drop them--and same rate as regular hydrogen will be known with So we may not have a clear at least yet. But we do have a path to either and so understanding what's currently the Thank you to 80,000 Hours, a project of Effective nonprofit that aims to help people have a positive you'll work 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year for spend that time is a very important decision for 80,000 Hours offers research-backed guides for (including many in science and tech), a podcast experts on these issues, as well as a curated think will make a difference. Everything they you find a fulfilling, high-impact career.