When marveling upon Middle Earth's one can easily wonder how all these strongholds Tolkien was a philologist, not an economist, a semblance of economic life is present in its considerable amount of thought to the withertos a phenomenon just waiting to be explored. cultures of middle earth, we covered the day men. In this special episode, we will venture simply or not, one survives in the land of Mordor. Maia and most trusted lieutenant to Morgoth. Thus, of his erstwhile master's great host of thralls: for in their corruption they had lost almost all will. When Morgoth was at last removed from Arda, leaderless and almost witless, and were for a long to a central will that reduced the Orcs almost in the Second and Third Ages under the tyranny of achieved even greater control over his Orcs than a smaller scale, and he had no enemies so great in the Elder Days. But he had also inherited from the Orcs in breed and language, and the feuds helplessness had set up petty realms of their own inherited them. Yet, despite appearances, During the Third Age, Sauron re-established to breed armies and build war machines with Yet despite his infernal realm being quite unlike unique in that it required food production, labor Throughout Tolkiens' various works, we receive economic activity in Mordor, and that of Orcs in revisited the lost Dwarven city Moria, seeking but was attacked by the orc war-chief: Azog proclaiming himself king over Moria. After this to retrieve the King's body, until Azog decided to 'Drop it! Be off! Here's your fee, beggar-beard.' of little worth . While this mockery of fully structured Orc economy, it does show This also gives us some evidence as to perhaps it was used for trade. We also Merry are captured by Orcs and they are bickering I return to Isengard by the shortest road.' said the evil voice. 'We should go back at once to our prisoners, and get all the pay and praise can through the Horse-country . This indicates a no way of knowing if it's monetary. Perhaps the One thing we do know is that not all with the Orcs of Gundabad and the Misty Mountains Take for example Goblin town, which had its own some instances of what Orcish independence was `We'll see. But anyway, if it does go well, there we get a chance, you and me'll slip off and set somewhere where there's good loot nice and `Like old times .' During times when Sauron was to independence and formed petty realms the latter existing in the husk of a Dwarven that in order to maintain his dominion over Orc's, keep them in thraldom, that thing may have been Like Elves, Dwarves and Men, Orcs need sustenance, references to the dietary habits of Orcs. As Ugluk called swine by the muck-rakers of a dirty little 'I know,' growled Ugluk. 'The cursed horse-boys Snaga. You and the other scouts ought to have your on horseflesh yet, or something better.' But for Uruk-hai! We slew the great warrior. We took the Wise, the White Hand: the Hand that gives us of Tolkien knows the most popular item on the menu Yet, just as there is a common misconception so too is there a misconception that all Orcs Merry are captured by the Orcs they see more than and flung him some bread and a strip of raw dried The presence of the grey bread would also indicate a rather odd image . But for there to be bread, it When Frodo and Sam gazed over the dark lands of this realm maintained and fed his slaves and his could reach, along the skirts of the Morgai and some ordered like small towns" . Gorgoroth was tangled brambles grew. Sam asked Frodo "Don't orcs on foul air and poison?' Frodo replied "No, they only mock, it cannot make: not real new things of it only ruined them and twisted them; and if other living creatures. Foul waters and foul but not poison. They've fed me, and so I'm water somewhere in this place.' " Of course, was full of Sauron's armies and slaves without them? Neither Sam nor Frodo knew anything of wide realm, beyond the fumes of the Mountain by Lake Nurnen provided lands fertile enough to Nurn where grain was harvested to make bread. The because they would become a large reward for those of Sauron. During the end of the Return of crowned as King Elassar "embassies came from many and from the borders of Mirkwood, and from Dunland that had given themselves up, and sent them away and the slaves of Mordor he released and gave to own. And there were brought before him many to and last the captain of the Guard brought to can gather the fertility of Nurn was abundant, Nurn must have been capable of sustaining Speaking of slaves, we know that during the realms of men often, such as when the Wainriders TA and enslaved the peoples of eastern and to receive their bounty of goods and slaves from a navy was crucial. This ally was of course the from Sauron than the Easterlings or Haradrim. The to horrifying effect. During the Return of the many slaves. "And then to each of the great ships and they comforted the captives that were That night we rested while others laboured. For released who had been folk of Gondor taken in of men out of Lebennin and the Ethir, and Angbor could muster" . The Corsairs were a crucial network. With their formidable navy, Umbar allowed to Mordor from the far reaches of middle-earth. Mordor acquired a vast amount of slaves and goods and the Easterlings . As told to us in the Return and south to tributary lands, from which the of goods and booty and fresh slaves. Here in and the musterings of long-planned war; and here the board, was gathering them together ". The only in goods, but in the vast amounts of slaves Gorgoroth, there were mines and forges, making traded back to Mordors' tributary allies. Perhaps equipment much like how Gondor did so for Rohan. between Men and Dwarves that the dominant so it is to be expected the tributary lands also Orc mouths. Thus, it seems as if slavery and Mordor's needs. However, it did not stop Mordor In the Two Towers, we hear many rumors about Rohan tribute to Sauron?' said Gimli. 'We do not and we 'though it comes to my ears that that lie has Land wished to purchase horses of us at great to evil use. Then he sent plundering Orcs, and the black horses: few of these are now left. For Thus it seems Mordor at least attempted to trade, Gorgoroth, but it was ultimately to no avail. When the black horses, whether it was for cavalry or particular need for riches outside its territory 'No one knows,' said Gandalf. 'None have dared down in the deep places since the dwarves fled. because of Mithril,' said Gandalf. 'It was for and it was the foundation of the wealth and found save rarely and scantily.'They give it in and hoarding all that he can find. It is not known in the making of weapons of war. ' The Orcs treasures and most importantly for Mithril which craftsman of the One Ring, whatever purpose he had Sauron's Mordor was a slavery dominated economy. his loyal forces outside it using a system of to his minions. We may never know the fine details such as the Orcs, trolls and so forth, but we While it can be argued Sauron controlled Orcs to help him conquer middle-earth. Sauron like empire building and Mordor was not easy by any was able to build a sophisticated system that used We are going to talk about the economy so make sure you are subscribed and Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing - without our kind patrons and youtube channel in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Wizards and Warriors