The polling site for this UK viewers can enter a tech bundle and dream PC There's a link in the description, and a question at the end of the video. This isn't the first time that Several web projects have some are still running, And the question itself has asked by an inept, self-obsessed &quot;What is... the best thing?&quot; Of course there isn't a meaningful But I think there are challenges in trying to and the results can reveal a The first problem is I know it's an obvious there are a lot of So let's reduce the scope to &quot;everything that most people How do you get a list Well, the starting point is Wikidata. Everything that has a Wikipedia but so does every category of things, every property that and every link and connection And it's all designed to So I figured I'd start More than a terabyte of data, more than 88 million things And most of those things More than that, they're going to Every named location in the world every species and genus of animal, If you show most of those to people the answer isn't just it'll be &quot;I don't care&quot;. So I had to filter And the first steps were First, I removed all We're ranking things, so someone You're welcome to that. But I just removed any item that And that's good, that's a good start. Also, I removed all listings for Next, places. If you're doing no country or river or building it'll get voted down by political rivalries so if the item was tagged it also got thrown out. Also, anything tagged as not works of art themselves, but characters and events That still left an But we're only looking for things and there's a really I kept anything that had a Wikipedia article I tried different thresholds for that, but fifty seemed to have almost everything that remained And that brought it down to 8,850 things. But there was no way to I had to manually check through all the bad ones. Not just things that most people unpleasant or harmful, but things that no-one should be asking Crimes against the person. A couple of disturbing things that were Anything to do with the Nazis. They kept showing up under Like, eugenics was just Mein Kampf, just listed Unless you kept constantly vigilant Then there were the dull be summed up in a single entry instead. Every time zone. Every language, Every individual book A lot of mythological figures who weren't Hundreds of generic names of galaxies-- &quot;Okay, you know what? I talked &quot;Let's just say I removed the boring &quot;Let's skip forward.&quot; And then, there was the vandalism. All of which has since been corrected, someone had replaced the title of and the description of Also, &quot;pipe organ&quot; was described as So there's someone out there who When all was done: 7,188 things. I knew it wasn't going to be perfect, people would still find mistakes, But it was good enough. It was time One of the best approaches is to show them to people two at a time, and then ask them to pick The best ones will be and the worst ones voted against. And as long as you have you don't need to keep track just the total number of wins Now, I've written code so I just reused it, put and launched it out on Twitter. My code broke immediately one line before going live, I fixed it within a minute or so while about something I obviously Five hours and more than the order of items had settled down, and I closed the poll before anyone Now, you'll remember that each That means some items had more match-ups The outliers were &quot;mold&quot;, and &quot;canal&quot;, which was in 236. There was the expected So, at this point, we I don't want to spend too much It's a lot of nasty diseases Also one of the Twilight movies. I will say that The Worst I've no idea why. It did significantly worse than Maybe, statistically, out one had to get a lot But, honestly, it is a really &quot;Coronavirus&quot;, also fairly low. And anything religious did if you're not religious vote for anything to do with faith, you're hardly ever going to vote In hindsight, I should have all the entries for faiths into Which I'm sure wouldn't have Anyway. The best things. First, let's be clear: these are the results as voted by This is about &quot;the best thing&quot; a group of English-speaking, However, that's also going to be a lot so, I think it's fair to say, as voted by you: here are At number 10, privacy. And ranked above privacy, Is pizza better or more important ...but pizza is more likely to win a By the way, the next highest and while that could imply that I think it's more that, while those there are very few people so they'll win a lot of generic The next items up: knowledge, The foundations of human thought. At number 5: hugs. Which Wikidata clinically describes as &quot;a form of endearment, Granted, it's 2020 as so they're less universal than but that's still lovely. Then we get to three items that I At number 4: gravity. Sure, it's essential for I just didn't expect it to beat ...the Earth's magnetic field. Like I said, extremely-online nerds. Because, again, yes, but just to be clear, &quot;air&quot; and &quot;fresh and somehow the Earth's And it's at this point that I really Because at number two is electricity. I do realise that using an does give that a certain should that really be higher than air? Before we get to the best thing, though, here are some other interesting the best part of the body is the brain. &quot;Space&quot; and &quot;time&quot; both fought and won they landed in joint 36th place. Despite there being quite a few none of them got near the top 50. &quot;Okay, okay, I should have checked more &quot;'cos it turns out that the &quot;and it got to number 69, and I The best creatures are bees, then The best colours are black, then Love doesn't even make it into next to Vitamin C and cryptography, and if that doesn't prove my audience I don't know what does. Actually, I do know what does, heterosexuality lost more while bisexuality was ranked Yes, it is ridiculous to try But the results do reveal things about the folks who tend And perhaps the most revealing It doesn't just tell you about the it's also something about If we weren't in what seems if I were giving this talk to a live instead of a standing in talking to a camera in a tiny apartment, well, then, in that case maybe the But the best thing, according the best thing is... sleep. Have a good night, folks. I ran the polling site for a web hosting company with more Their dedicated servers can have up to and their CloudNX platform lets you configure and in real time with no upfront costs. All of their servers and And if you are too, then you can go the to enter their competition to win worth up to PS5,000. If you can answer the techie test Which is: what's the HTTP Terms and conditions the closing date is 31st