Transcriber: Minh-Hung Nguyen Most of the time, when you think of somebody with ADHD, this is what you think of. But now I'd like for you to meet Sally. Sally is an incredibly creative person. She has a master's in fine arts She's the person that if they need fresh ideas. Sally has ADHD. So Sally is driving down the road and there's this constant conversation going on inside her head. She's thinking, why did I have I thought it was going to take me and 20 minutes later, the stupid And I would say I'm But I say that every single day So what's the deal? And then friends and family, say things like, you forgot. How could you forget? I told you 10 times. Do we need to get your ears checked? Or how could you go to the grocery store? All we needed was bread and milk and fifty dollars worth of groceries How does that happen? So you can see this would be because Sally has her voice telling her she's not doing well and she has voices on the outside So this makes Sally anxious. As you can imagine, a lot of adults who 75 percent of adults who have anxiety the cause of their anxiety. Whether they're anxious or not, they know something is not right and they'll make monumental efforts to And they're usually waiting for for everybody else to figure out they're But here's the thing. Sally is actually So what's going on? What's going on with ADHD? At its core, ADHD is a deficiency mainly dopamine and norepinephrine. You need dopamine like what your husband is telling you to get at the grocery store; and need norepinephrine for executive functions like concept of time and prioritizing. Because you need to know how so you know whether you need to stop your appointment. And you need to know that it's more on time than it is to finish And there are many, many other Now I'd like for you to meet Tom. Tom is a people person. He is a great friend. He can connect with just about anybody. Tom checks his mail about once a week, usually when the door of the mailbox there's so much mail in there. Tom has to force himself to go and he sets it down on the table because the mail is not interesting. Unfortunately, he sets to the mail down and that sitting on top of mail So the mail started out but then it ended up being overwhelming. And at some point, Tom just swept and stuck the box in a closet. And it doesn't matter that there were bills because they're not interesting until the situation becomes overwhelming and now the water gets turned off because Tom didn't pay his water bill. And this doesn't just happen at home. At home, if Tom is overwhelmed, But he doesn't have that luxury to work. So if you see Tom sitting in a meeting, he is just seething internally because he has so much that he has to do, and these people are just wasting his And the problem, it's not just the mail. It's the mundane details of human like going to the doctor, And people with ADHD know but they're either mundane And you can see that neither one of those Until the situation becomes so big that So these are people who are living their And just think about the health the risk of heart attack, the high And this doesn't just affect It affects everybody around them because they don't understand But then neither does the Nobody understands what's going on. So this is the corporate executive but she's late getting your This is the stay at home mom who is frantically But when her husband comes home, the house is a mess and she hasn't This is a college professor but it takes him forever And this is the husband who because he can't get any work because that's when he can focus. Now, here's where this gets interesting, including Tom and Sally, What's up with that? It's all about the shame. Because they know what they need to do, but they can't get it done. And they have a world of people who see that they're They don't understand. They're not They're trying really hard And it's not working. In their minds, the only way to counter the shame and then hearing about it So what's the solution? That's the best part of this conversation, because there is a solution. Medication helps tremendously because this is a chemical deficiency. Sally gets her ADHD treated and now she can have creative thoughts running around in her head. And she can look at an email and see or she needs to save it for later. Now, Sally can be on time and that frees up the perfectionist who was trying so hard and was failing every time. Tom gets his ADHD treated. Now he can open up the bills and pay them and he can sit down and read a book and remember what he read. At work, Tom can sit quietly, as any adult would in a meeting, even though it's a really boring meeting because he doesn't have to stimulate Now the corporate executive and she has more time The stay-at-home mom can spend time with her kids really being present with her kids because she's not frantically The college professor can help the because he knows what their grades are. And the husband can come home on time because he got his work done So does everybody have this? I mean, Yes, of course we all feel stressed, but for some people They can't move forward and they In the 28 years I've been seeing patients, I think we're looking at two and that's a lot of people who could Thank you for your time.