- [Todd] Fouad Masri all over the world and here is what he has been seeing and experiencing in recent years. - [Fouad] There is an To be honest with you, we've never seen Muslims this open. Muslims are downloading Bibles. so there is an openness like never before. - [Announcer] Jesus never an easy path. In fact, he told his disciples He sent them out as sheep among wolves. Jesus' words came true in and are still coming true today in the lives of his Join host Todd Nettleton as we and learn how we can help right now on The Voice of the Martyrs Radio network. - [Todd] Welcome again to The Voice of the Martyrs Radio. My name is Todd Nettleton. We are connected today with Fouad Masri; he is the founder and the In fact, we were just discussing this is the 30th anniversary year So for 30 years, they have how to share their faith with Muslims and how to do it with confidence, how to do it with courtesy, and we are excited, Fouad, on Voice of the Martyrs Radio. Welcome. - [Fouad] Thank you, Todd. It's great to be with you. God is faithful! - [Todd] God is faithful! Fouad, you have just written a book called &quot;Sharing Jesus with Muslims,&quot; and I have a copy with me here. Why this new book? You have written other books about this. You have actually written books that are designed to be given to a Muslim to help them think about faith, What is the purpose or what is the passion that led to this new book? - [Fouad] Yeah, in the last and we have been doing things We are doing church planting, we are talking to people who are direct in with them the full gospel, and we discovered still there is a lack of understanding among believes on moving from fascinations to compassion. A lot of Christians when I talk to they are fascinated and the meals, the food, &quot;No, you need to move to compassion.&quot; So we wanted to present the idea that God has given us a message for them. The other thing is that When you look at the last 15 if you even go as far as India, Indonesia, things have not been getting It is getting worse. Yeah, we look at Dubai and see the nice but that does not represent Algeria, Tunisia, and If you go to India, the conflict between the Hindus and So we wanted to tell there is terrorism. Not even two weeks ago before a terrorist walked into a and 83 dead this first They are still finding so we wanted people to move and Muslims to no, we have That is on the outside. The last thing I want to share I took a whole section on the Great Commission, Matthew &quot;Go and make disciples.&quot; He starts by saying, &quot;All authority has been given to me; therefore go and make And so the reason we it is sad to say now in the is biblical illiteracy. People are forgetting that is not a bigger building or a better song, although these are important. We are not saying that churches and Christians should not have materials and tools and structure. What we are saying the goal for a building fund; the goal is impacting the nations you know a lot of people are noticing that our neighborhoods are changing. It is no longer Ford and Chevy, you've got the Toyotas Basically what you are seeing is the world is joining us here in the US, but there also coming to Canada, Mexico, Latin America and Europe. Last summer, I was in and it is no longer like before where everybody was Swiss or French. You see Moroccans, Algerians, Pakistanis and Indians and Senegalese. So suddenly, I was in a train in Paris. I am standing talking to people next to me that were from Cameroon, I mean, I have never been to Cameroon, and I am talking to And the beauty of what the Great Commission and Jesus says in Acts in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria Well, the ends of the The ends of the earth are Jerusalem. So that is one of the reasons this book was written this time. - [Todd] I was interested to see that it was and can you tell me a little bit about your relationship with him and why this dedication - [Fouad] Yes, thanks, Todd. It is sad. I miss my friend Nabeel, but we know his faith is now sight. I met Nabeel who was so we had been years for many years and we wanted to write this book together; however, he had stomach cancer So I felt that this could be and my brother in Christ to Part of the outline was his idea, especially the issues with Islamic law. Many times Muslims say Islam is correct because it has a perfect Sharia, perfect Islamic law, and he We did use the book and we have a couple of things specifically on utilizing the Sharia Islam and the concepts they bring to say, &quot;Oh, it is a perfect religion,&quot; and use that to create on faith, on salvation because Sharia law does not save us; only Jesus, the Messiah, saves. - [Todd] I loved, as I opened it, I loved seeing that it One of the first topics and even as you opened up, you talked about that fear that we have. And I think for a lot of Americans, we fear sharing our faith with Muslims. A lot of us fear sharing let alone with Muslims. Why do you think that that we are so fearful? - [Fouad] You know, a a lot of European culture, there is this concept of We always don't want to offend, so I wanted to talk about this section because I came as an And, yes, many times Americans offended me and sometimes I offended them, you know. Sometimes I use a word that makes no sense or I use a word that I remember talking to a friend, I used the wrong preposition &quot;Excuse me, that doesn't mean So we wanted people to see, but people understand. In our culture, the Muslim culture, even when you go to Muslims in India or Pakistan, there is this So people understand that you and if you want to make an it is easy to say, &quot;I'm sorry. The fear is there; the other thing that is there we wanted to tackle is there is the social fear in the media. You know, the media is that is negative. I think, though, it is a little more spiritual. So we tackle this fear of view because the evil one does not want us to share the Good News. So we have to remember this fear is also a spiritual initiation. The Bible says in Ephesians, and he says, &quot;The shield of of the evil one.&quot; Well, one of the darts is fear. So the idea that somehow well, that is not true. I have been doing ministry and always, it doesn't matter or non-Muslim, if I want in Jesus, you know when you are going to get happy and some So you answer knowing that He doesn't want you to proclaim the name. - [Todd] We are talking this week on Voice of the Martyrs He is the founder of Crescent Project and the author of a new book called, &quot;Sharing Jesus with Muslims: Fouad, if I meet a Muslim they could be just the same, you know, someone who They might be a Baptist, they might be a Catholic, they might be a mainline Methodist, all of those people would That is somewhat true in Islam as well. They might be Sunni, they might be Shia, they might be very devout, How much do I need to know before I sort of have a - [Fouad] Todd, the thing is it is good for people to do their like the Somali Muslims are There are some similarities, but your question is very important because of today's world with the wars, conflicts and transitions, students coming here to like never before. To be honest with you, we have never seen Muslims this open. - [Todd] Wow! - [Fouad] Now some are becoming believers, Muslims are getting baptized, but Muslims are downloading Bibles. They come to our website. Our digital outreach had 41,000 hours of reaching Muslims last year, 41,000 hours talking to Muslims So there is an openness like never before and many Muslims want to talk about Jesus in a respectful way. It used to be they would today, they are respecting us because, number one, people like Turkey, are the born-again believers. They are there with cash, with money, with blankets, with food, there is an openness. The other thing on our side, as believers, we don't need to know everything about the Muslim we are talking to, especially in the beginning. Just show love, show a maybe invite them to your home. If they moved into your &quot;Hey, can we grab pizza for you today?&quot; Something very simple. If you are overseas, it could One of the biggest is just someone to talk to them because they are in a foreign country. When I came to America, where to buy toothpaste, and my classmate said to me go to the drugstore. And I am like, why do I I don't want to buy drugs. But Americans and their slang, you know, the drugstore is the supermarket. Basically they are saying Many times we look at the Muslim and we think, oh, I need or Druze, are they Alawites, It's okay. Start the conversation, and in the book it describes the different denominations of Islam; we have about 200 different sects if you include Suffis and Tariqa. Not every Muslim the same. Most Muslims today are nominal, which means they know So for example, they would say to you, &quot;Oh, we believe in the virgin birth and you Christians don't Well, that's not true; we But they think because this means there was a sexual So you have to remember they they know traditional information. One person I was talking to said they were Muslim why Christians worship three? You know, he has never Well, we believe in one God Like they say they follow Our faith is from Genesis - [Todd] You encourage and I remember this prayer from the Bridges video curriculum they did now more than a decade ago: &quot;Lord, if you want me to share the gospel with this person, you open the And I love that prayer because on God rather than the onus on me. How have you seen God answer that prayer, even in your own conversations? When you pray that prayer and say Lord, I am ready to share the gospel, but you have to open the door. - [Fouad] Amen, brother. One key thing in the book Biggest problem today for is we forget to listen. My pastor used to say God gave which means we have to listen twice more. And so you listen, and God answers. I was in a flight from Austria to France and I got the window seat. I was very tired. I really did not want to talk to anybody. In Europe, I spoke six times in six days, so you get to this place to talk to anybody anymore.&quot; I prayed this prayer and the man, the person sitting next to me, I couldn't figure out I couldn't figure out. His name was Ahmad, and he was an engineer and he starts the conversation I am trying to beat &quot;I teach about religion,&quot; I say, &quot;I teach about So he pulled his Koran in Arabic and I found out that he And for the next hour we we talked about how the discovered that he had and he was listening to it in French, he is a French speaker. - [Todd] Wow! - [Fouad] I like the story because the Lord was there before me. The man is already searching, he has already downloaded the Bible and I sit next to him and share with him how the Bible and the beautiful thing leads us to Jesus. All other religions, their founders will or rule or something For us, the power is in God become flesh. Immanuel is here. We are not following a We are not following rules; It is totally different. - [Todd] It is a very different mindset. We are talking this week on with Fouad Masri. He is the author of a new book, &quot;Sharing Jesus with Muslims: Fouad, one of the things is the hurdles that to overcome to follow Jesus. What are some of those hurdles that they have to kind of get past I do believe that Jesus is the Son of God? - [Fouad] The first thing is That is the first hurdle. So if they still believe worship three gods, that we are sinners, then So there is a real Now, conversations count explain the gospel and many times that is how people convert. They listen, and the Bible says, &quot;Salvation by the Word of God, so you have to hear. The second thing is reaching the heart. That's where Jesus saying, &quot;Love Why we as a ministry are involved in what we call the &quot;Great Commandment.&quot; The Great Commandment is love So we are involving the Great Commandment in structures and events because we want to have a So why are we helping Because we want them to that we love them. Now if they become believers, great! If they don't become believers, it's okay. That is our role as believers. So there is this tangible hurdle that they need to see the love of Christ; it cannot be just by It could be inviting them to your home, inviting them to go fishing or maybe a sister can invite to get their kids and go to the park. It doesn't matter if or doesn't have a hijab and a friend is a way to do this. That is the hurdle, and and there is more I talk in the book, but I want to highlight this. We have to wait on their decision. One of the biggest problems today is we as believers want to when somebody becomes a Oh, no, no, no, relax, it's okay. Salvation is a miracle of God. It doesn't matter if your you know, evangelical. It doesn't matter. We all need salvation; it is a miracle. So we need to wait. Some of the hurdles could be Some of the hurdles could be One friend of mine is At first, the kids were young enough, and so the struggle was he didn't lose his life, but that's a lot. So you need to wait on their timing. There are these hurdles not only the mind and the heart but, also, Also, depending on their position, if they are in the political eye or the public eye many times, they cannot come and say I am believer. So I like the concept that's true. Now we know that Jesus says you At some point the light But the timetable is not on The timetable is won by God's hand and on them, whether it's So we just connected with a Saudi who became a believer in college; we cannot tell people about He is in a country that executes people for changing their religion. So it is important to be that information in a way and let him tell his family, let him decide when to be baptized. - [Todd] Amen. How real, and you talked how real is persecution for in the West? If my co-worker at my to become a follower of Christ, what kind of pressure and or she likely to face? - [Fouad] Thank you, Todd, I love Voice of the Martyrs You are monitoring these things, and God bless you, and because we are losing brothers and sisters even today as we speak, church planters in countries Indonesia, Saudi Arabia There is a pressure. In the West, there tends It could be political pressure Sometimes if it is a and they end up having to We have seen some people and if they are women, to someone's cousin overseas. The thing that Muslims who are fanatic have a problem with is they think that persecution will lessen the commitment of the believers. - [Todd] It doesn't - [Fouad] I was listening to a pastor just said he was doing a study. In 300 years from Acts 1:8 and persecution was at its every decade, the church - [Todd] Wow! - [Fouad] In three hundred years, the Roman coin changed from having the face of Caesar of Jesus in three hundred years. What's happened today among Muslims, yes, there is persecution, but the results of the persecution The family of Jesus is growing. Now it is true we haven't Yes, it is true, we have numbers that are more than 10 we haven't reached critical mass. So countries like India or Iran or Turkey, we are seeing faith grow, we are seeing people become believers, but still we haven't reached critical mass where we can impact the whole culture. So we need to pray, we need to on a plane or in a home or we need to share the Good News of Jesus. - [Todd] You have some and our guest, Fouad about some of them. First, pray for Muslims. Pray that the openness Muslims have to engage in conversations about God and the Bible will result in a great harvest of people coming to know Jesus Christ in a personal way. Secondly, you can learn with Muslims yourself. Fouad has written a new book, it is called &quot;Sharing Jesus with Muslims.&quot; I hope you will get a copy and learn how to engage with people with confidence, with love and with courtesy. We are going to give when you visit our website, vomradio.net; again, vomradio.net. While you are there, you that I have done with former Muslims, people sharing their testimonies as well as people who are Maybe when you get into the from Brother Rachid from Morocco or a brother named Al or maybe you want to hear from All of these archived or you can find them in the podcast stream wherever you listen to for The Voice of the Martyrs, Our website, again, vomradio.net. While you are at the website, I love to hear from listeners about how God is using this program, how he is encouraging you, how you are praying for around the world. Fred wrote in and said, &quot;I just want to thank I tell others that this and what is true and most important. Praying for you and our fellow believers, I was really hit today don't want the children Again, this shows me why is so important.&quot; Fred, it is very important. Sonya wrote in to say, &quot;The has impacted my relationship with God. Most importantly, the podcast episodes have propelled me to stay and prayer as I make Sonya, the focus on God's Word is a theme that I hear again and It has impacted me, as well, to be committed to my time in God's Word, to my time reading the Bible each day. You can send your The feedback box is just right Next week we are going to hear Part II of our conversation with Fouad Masri. He is going to continue to share what he has been experiencing with Muslims not only here in the US but in other countries as well. He is also going to tell can share the gospel, too. I know you will be encouraged I hope you will be back on The Voice of the Martyrs Radio network.