How do you judge music? No, really--how do you judge music? How do you point to &quot;Those pressure wavelengths are All music is doing is providing So, if a truck goes by, it's If someone's playing cello, it's pushing the exact just in a different, structured way. For every semester at art school, I spent at least five That's over 500 hours 500 hours of white 500 hours of composition and color anatomy and line work And yes, I guess when visual art is just What is visual wavelengths off the which our eyes then flip and categorize? What is life, if not an refractions and If Olaf was immaculately conceived, defines love as self-sacrifice, and dies only to does that make him a Christ figure? "I live!" That's all to say: Art and fiction are but I'm more comfortable with the creation and critique of I more or less gave up on For a while there I like the freelance musicians but if I had to look I was going to wind up on the news. I'm still a slut and I'm always on the lookout for that Sometimes a mediocre film and sometimes I watch Frozen 2. Frozen 2's but the wordless music underneath-- makes me want to How does one put words to such a Well, first you leave out hallowed be thy name. Then you kick back a Rockstar Because yes, I like some and when applied to a the distinction between I like taiko drums, and three-four time, and when the trailer music goes... [whoosh, followed by screaming] I like epic choirs; solo piano; I like when I hear &quot;What the fuck was that?&quot; [Oh shit, it was wine glasses!] On a macro note, I like and challenge my perception of a film. Bear with me while I The Nimona score stood out Camelot meets cyberpunk future. What a musical challenge! But composer Christophe Beck takes The knights are paired with bolstered by a more It's order and tradition with the versus Nimona's We see Nimona as one &quot;You want to know who the kid is?&quot; &quot;Oh, I like where this is going.&quot; &quot;You want to show him?&quot; &quot;I'd love to.&quot; &quot;Let's break stuff.&quot; &quot;Metal.&quot; But then "Nimona's Here comes the wistful soft, vulnerable vocals; Nimona's theme Her signature electronic sound but only as a discreet, Beck's abrupt departure from to the traditional and the To be sure, Nimona is a But here the solo vocals and the longing; hope; fear. Though not her whole self, as embodied by her main theme. (Spoilers for the Oh my god, I can't &quot;Get him!&quot; &quot;He hates freestyle jazz.&quot; At the low point of the third act, we find out Nimona was the but the score told us The film opens on and a track of the same name... Yet the first notes we hear are Nimona's. &quot;A long, long time believing they had nothing to fear.&quot; Nimona's name was scrubbed from history, her tragic origin story But Beck's score betrays the truth. Nimona was here at and that was her first and worst crime: Her existence, as She's not contemporary the same way she's not a She's Nimona, and her [four-note melody] "Did you see the way [Overlapping voices] "Just be a girl." "There is no place for you." "Don't lie to me." "She's a monster." "Don't you wish you were normal?" "Go back to the "There's something really wrong with you." "What are you?" "Monster!" "You know what you are!" [More of Nimona's four-note motif] As the score goes on, It's not that Ballister and Nimona = contemporary rock... Maybe not even that Ballister and Nimona represents the It's not the type of story to Rather, I would argue because, at their core, Love and acceptance from a That's why, for all Ballister and Nimona's of softness and tenuous hope. [Ballister's theme plays] "What if they still hate me?" "No one hates a hero of the realm." "They're gonna love you." The score communicates all But hey--I'm not I'm here to...to talk about... to... [Muffled, distant voice] Oh my god, is this when the elements or Put those fucking snare Frozen 2's score is...beautiful. It tiptoes, careful then explodes in swells with the Plenty of critics, from adore the Frozen 2 score. And yet! Frozen 1 and 2's and Kristin Anderson-Lopez. The score--the wordless background music-- was produced by our Over the past over and over and But even now, as I I can't recall a single to the Lopez's musical numbers: "All is Found"; "Show The original score vanishes from my mind the moment I close my computer. In contrast, when I I came out of the theater like [sings "Discombobulate" by Hans Zimmer] CHRISTOPHE BECK: This melody, was going to be a beautiful tune played on strings or And in fact, that comes back many, many INTERVIEWER: When would because I didn't When do you hear it? BECK: Um-- Gee, I hope not. ["Why You No Love Me" by John Mayer plays] [In "uwu" voice] God is dead. God remains dead... There's this conceit that that's done right. Frozen 2 executive described this genre MCDOUGALL: One of the things about animation is-- like in live action, there's And it sounds It's just like... just to be this and not necessarily be I turned to Google for and I couldn't find shit about shit. It seems to me that is less an academic coined by James Newton In 2006, Hans told Soundtrack.net, HANS QUOTE: There are two ways You can go and sort of map out your theme if you want to go as far as that and then just dive into the And usually what happens is &quot;It's all right. It's but it supports the When I get to the next cut and it will be better. And then you get to the next as James Newton Howard says. It serves the film. You're going to get It has absolutely no emotional, So goes The Times newspaper report, &quot;Modern Film Scores TIMES ARTICLE: Hans Zimmer, who wrote the Gladiator and The Lion King, dismissed the majority of HANS: They drift around like cows grazing. So many scores sound like In 2013, Hans tripled down. HANS: You gotta have a tune. If you You're just grazing like cows in a field. These were the only outside of this one Good Morning Hans Zimmer and his decadal In defense of cows...I'm down I keep a folder full of to underscore my I can also see music as a Through this lens, the film is The score's job is to hold up the cake It should be strong but not so robust or ornate as PAUL HOLLYWOOD: Can you tell us JAMES ACASTER: Started making it. Had a breakdown. Bon Appetit! In his video, &quot;The Every Frame A Painting asks from popular franchises The volunteers are right up until every frame asks "I'm like the biggest I just, I can't Um..." "I don't want to lose..." "No?" "Shit. Um..." You never notice This is the drawback It's unnoticeable. In the words of Every Frame It's just bland and inoffensive. People don't remember safe choices." When film music exists to we enter this dull echo chamber where the score does nothing like a bad book report. We've accumulated a kind Signature sounds prompters to We cheer with brass, cry with solo piano. A tremulous violin Fast flutes are for childlike whimsy. Staccato strings Shorthands, So they're not--you know, good or bad. What matters to me are the I've already described how Beck to tell us more about I don't need a composer to [Lonely Island's "I Threw It On the Ground" Welcome to the real world, jackass!" But in a sort of paradoxical twist, there are times when I so safe; so literal; so reiterative and sucks me out of the film. Two of Frozen 2's core Its score is unmemorable, its To wit..let's play a game! It's time for... "Who's that [Frozen track]?" Guess which music came from Frozen 2. The correct answer is... A! How about these? The correct answer is... B! One more round. The correct answer is... Roundabouts, public transit lane, And also D. It was D. A round of applause for everyone who [Anna yells] KRISTOFF: Come on! Between retention metrics and the away with more It feels unfair to Zoom in on any two paintings far That said...It was easy enough to go, &quot;Oh, I know another But when I went to How to Train Your I could never find a solid nine some kind of specific theme I never realized how many films from themes until I tried and To maintain any pushed towards The Frozen 2 score, meanwhile... featured a prominent motif from Frozen 2. Yet I was confident that only the most stringent fans would I remind you that this is the second And I remember Ice Age's I expected to emerge kind of point about the But it's not that It's not even that the It's that the Frozen the transitory gaps As far as I'm concerned, Frozen 2 The other 48 minutes or so of score It was the critic fact that Frozen 2 contains Film tracks creator an intricate roadmap of He describes themes which represent the elemental And I remember...none of these themes. At all. ["September" by Earth, Wind &amp; Fire plays, but remixed to say "I really CHRISTOPHE BECK: It was one I had already written that I stole from and then used throughout the rest of INTERVIEWER: What does Gale It all comes back to taste, I guess. None of these Frozen 2 themes stick so I only remember I always perk up when a That level of care takes time--a enter the picture only film's premiere (and thus It means a lot that Beck I do wish these sounds played a We could have started out The Sami flutes, horns and choirs And over the course of come together with the [Strained, distant voice] You know...kinda like Vuelie, a Fjiellheim, combines Sami This region-specific, music shines for roughly Given Vuelie's debut at the top of the treat Vuelie less like a But...damn. The moments Beck calls moments the clouds part Would have loved a piece could have had it "We'll rebuild the castle. New. No The flood was gonna destroy the [Slo-mo] "We'll rebuild THE CASTLE..." But we can't destroy ...And rebuild from the ground up with transit lanes and A symbolic statue will do fine. "Our lands and [One guy clapping; a bad recorder plays a I mean, since the symbol of the monarchy maybe it's go harder on the These communities are still Bridge or no bridge, dam to the woods and the Man...there's a You don't need to sweep the entire future, and what did I say It's all so safe, y'all. "Oh no, we can't add too the music would stand out "We can't destroy the castle It's kind of funny to watch a film try when it's clearly not And by funny, I mean wildly depressing. To be fair, if the goal beam with some unobtrusive the score was a big success. right? Right? [Mic blowing out] Right? MACDOUGALL: Sometimes you just want the music just not necessarily be INTERVIEWER: What's a good MACDOUGALL: Well, that's just it. INTERVIEWER: Oh, I'm sorry. MACDOUGALL: For better or worse, one of the massive part of the Pick your percentage. the movie is going to 20%. When you count for the film tick, 20% starts to And when you consider the consequences Would Star Wars have found such wild success with a score like But here we are, back at I maintain that mainstream audiences would have...struggled with a score like but some people would There's a certain undeniable appeal to unlistenable music. Here's one of my favorites: I love this song. I'm dead autotuned Brontosaurus, I I am Angy because here Tom admits the supposed to feel different--to So I ask again: What makes this It's like...you want to make the becomes inextricable Then why the FUCK DIDN'T Years and years ago, across a Scandinavian The ancient "kulning the way up to any The livestock hear this sound and know to return to their farm, Hans Zimmer. [Hans, voice growing louder as The nature of the shepherd's call what? Answers? voice a spirit or The shepherd's call, siren call, propels Frozen These four notes the unknown. The pursuit What composer would pass on such a There's your Scatter those notes around the film fourth wall. The siren We are beckoned transformed from But Beck's score never references the Unknown"...one In the words of critic Christian Clemmensen, "Beck said that songs spoke to him, so Unfortunately, the lack of 'Into the four-note siren call and it's hard to didn't catch Beck's Together, all these themes and references to the songs would have been preferred to all A lack of prominence for the Wow, tell us how you really feel. So why? Why the fuck BECK: It's a major story point in the film to her and that sets That was a, I think, a brilliant device that the filmmakers it had one slightly less good side taken away from me in terms of the score. We didn't want to muddy the waters by the story and also So that gave me a new a new Nordic sound to So I did a little bit more research woman player named Chris Blacker here instruments from a Northern European instrument called a gemshorn, [voice becomes muffled as tinnitus haunting sound, and um...[voice is [Garbled voice screams; distant pop music rises] They didn't let him use it. They found the perfect and they didn't let Hold on. Okay, hold on a second. [Headphones Hold on. [Voice becomes distant I can't fucking doing this. [Hysterical laughter] [Over The Goo Goo Doll's &quot;Iris&quot;] Garfle Warfle Snick is sponsored by... Hey, everybody. I published a book! You know what that means! I finally learned how to read! When members of her bunnybird cult start to disappear, Princess Aster will do absolutely nothing! That's right: She'll do absolutely nothing until Join Aster and her friends, Carlin non-binary quest to Can Aster rescue the missing bunnybirds before they're eaten Is this whole story an Where am I? How did I get here, and how do I leave? Find out wherever I'll know, but I may not retaliate! [The Goo Goo Doll's "Iris" Like, okay, fine. I could see how it might confuse the voice that goes...[Olaf screams] But to not even use the melody...? Disney really thought kids would hear a recorder go And be like, &quot;Oh my Why didn't Elsa Forget about the threads or the fact that I'm confused about is supposed to Explain it to me, TOM! [Increasingly drowned out by it to me like I'm five years old! Into the Unknown: The Making It's a four-hour heart attack. CHRIS BUCK: Jen? Have you seen Jen yet? PETER DEL VECHO: She's laying down. BUCK: Hi. Feeling okay? JENNIFER LEE: I'm okay. BUCK: Good. LEE: Holding my own. The relationship between the directors, the producer, You know the dog And her repeat customer [Underscored by screaming &quot;Mayonnaise. It's okay!&quot; &quot;You're very dramatic." "Meow!" &quot;No.&quot; [Chorus of "Show Yourself" explodes] "Show Yourself" was the picture lock, only two But did the Upon Frozen 2's with all the same For one...who does the voice belong to? Who was the siren? DEL VECHO: "Show Yourself" really I think we have a major question still to answer, which is...whose Yeah, that's what I said. Wait. Aren't you the fucking producer? Three years after Disney greenlit neither the Lopez's could agree on LEE: We've been playing with this voice. Is it sort of Elsa's destiny, her magic? Is it Ahtohallan itself? Is it the memory of her mother? And we all have different LEE: I'm being called by someone or LOPEZ: Elsa is trying to find a person. MICHAEL GIAIMO: Every time I see the reflection-- To me, I see when she sees LOPEZ: She gets there, she realizes, like... ANDERSON-LOPEZ: There's no person LOPEZ: It's a singing glacier. I don't... I don't think that's going ANDERSON-LOPEZ: Oh, a singing glacier! Who doesn't have that problem? MARC E. SMITH: This is the voice that's been In this version, she sees a mere reflection of herself, LEE: I think the key to came with us finally Bobby and Kristen went back, and and so we all agreed definitively we're going to answer The documentary makes LEE: In the screening, there was And I wonder if we should And it wasn't that there were enough &quot;I don't want them to miss The...the mother? To paraphrase Kristen the definition of true The second film expands that So if Frozen 2's message is Elsa can be her own answer shouldn't her own inner voice be her But...it's canon. The ghost of Elsa's mom, glacier, summoned Elsa out to &quot;The answers were &quot;You don't need to be helped any longer. You've always had the &quot;I have?&quot; &quot;Then why didn't you tell her before?&quot; &quot;Because she wouldn't have It feels backwards, to watch Elsa spend 65 voice in a film meant to Like, did Elsa push through the mist Yes. But with music, there's a compositional technique With her mother Iduna as the Iduna beckons, and Elsa follows. Iduna acts, and Elsa reacts. &quot;I woke the magical &quot;Why would you do that?&quot; &quot;Because of the voice.&quot; When you make Elsa the voice, Elsa the question and the LOPEZ: For the longest time, she was seeing And that's the part that BUCK: We started off but we lost some So we needed to bring in more LEE: The good news is we know what to do. &quot;I know what we have &quot;Why do you say that so sadly?&quot; &quot;We have to [fuck up the movie].&quot; &quot;Oh!&quot; &quot;Oh..." I get that to suggest Elsa before Elsa even knew would introduced the Frozen or the philosophical and future all coexist which would make water But at the end of the day, on top of every other I gesture once more Are we really going to more sense to Timmy the You know, the lore memory of life and can part the Aduna's quintessence to Only [laughs]...only the real ones The point remains: If you're gonna you may as well go with the God--it's like the filmmakers all but didn't even And so they reached a broad death; nature; A lot of these themes overlap, but still. I bring all this up to try and make powerful enough to and they took that symbol away from only to emerge with final product that left Now, not only did you muddy your message, you've designed a who's got to create a cohesive I'll let MacDougall finish his quote. MACDOUGALL: Pick your percentage. It's 20% of the success of the The problem is it comes last. INTERVIEWER: Yes. MACDOUGALL: So oftentimes if they're gonna pretend or INTERVIEWER: Mm-hmm. It may not even be within anyone's capability, but...it's to figure out how to from this thing to make because he's the last stop on this tour. In my second up to critique one It was the first and I set up my track for my My professor made some kind of It's 11.03 p.m. on a I really don't get why but I guess I never really gave I never told anybody about that critique. I just made myself laugh along with my classmates and my and went about my business. I was used to art crit. Composing was something I'd always I exposed my soft underbelly I was so ashamed I How do you judge music? If we could define an artist's real-world all slasher authors But I do believe the In the words of Zimmer, &quot;When you just don't want to look at crosses their face You're just so vulnerable.&quot; Zimmer adds, &quot;I'm hiding I'm hiding behind my The true me. I can only be caught in my music. It's the only time LEE: You're just having moments where and if you don't get it in the So you really That can make you It's not for the faint of heart. I would call YouTube help but bear a sliver of But there's an undeniable Ope! [The midwestern accent emerges] Who's emailing? Oh my god, I got an The very premise of a review I play the lobbing memes from "Show yourself" Of course I'm furious Whatever their past, zoomed-out language of Through the eyes of like Disney, To allow a story like Frozen a friend-shaped blur Fuck, I love how Disney's cutout as their, like, "It's like poetry; they rhyme." Sorry for the cynicism. I eat some Yogos and god told me we're ossified silt in the and that someday all our In short, I hate the epitomizes Disney's safe, In the case of Frozen 2, the film's transmogrified from a rich Here, Beck's edges were sanded down, emerged with a right-sized Beck was brought onboard more or less relegated to By most accounts, Beck beautiful score within Surely there are more phenomenon for me to I'm sure that chance to exact Moreover, I'm sure I my hatred lends me this &quot;You okay there, Olaf?&quot; &quot;Oh yeah.&quot; &quot;We're calling this 'controlling what you can when things feel out of control.'&quot; I sometimes find existence as both a film There are plenty of times but my fraught relationship with music I'm happy to make fun of Disney, and [ominous wheeze] Christophe Beck will never see this video. But I worry someone from my audience will hear the words &quot;generic&quot; and &quot;convoluted&quot; and &quot;echo chamber&quot; and reflect those judgements back onto their own art; their own fiction; I'll propagate the To that end, I offer a disclaimer. Our nerves and cones and more or less our only We peer out the orient our existence us and not us, subject versus &quot;ourselves,&quot; are We play host to a fears; value systems To quote Olaf, &quot;How can I claim to be the world through a I love to share my thoughts' viral you've lent me with But I also like this song. [More jaunty beeping noises] [laughs] Everybody say thank for all their I can make these videos without sponsors. So, all the love--all the good vibes. Special thanks to my top patrons, Achyutha Ananda, Broomhilda, Canbekoi, Glowie, Griffin Nerf, (Anidoodles], Raboute, And, uh, yeah... I've put some Spotify stuff down because I love to force If any of you guys favorite music, uh, I am always excited to try out new stuff. See ya, sinners!