[Guitar Playing] Hi, Molly Miller here, hanging out checking out this Gibson ES-335 '60s Block [Molly Miller Playing the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block Electric Guitar] I am a guitarist based in Los Angeles. I play I also play with artists such as Jason Mraz and Zayn, and You can see me on stages all over the place, and I also and I have a doctorate of guitar from USC. When I was 16 years old, I had just come back from summer camp at Berklee College of Music and I My guitar teacher at the time worked at and a 1978 ES-335 Walnut had just come in. He was like, &quot;I think this is special. If you don't want and that's been my baby ever since. So A couple of things stand out about this I am a fan of a small neck. I have small hands, so in general that have these thicker necks, So I am loving this fast and dot inlays is totally aesthetic because most but when I look at the block inlays, they [Playing the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block] I don't travel with my vintage guitar anymore, so I could totally see something of this cherry red. I think it's quite beautiful. I do love about this guitar is there's a lot of it sounds nice clean, so there's a [Playing the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block Electric Guitar] I feel like with that thin '60s neck, I'm going to switch to the bridge I will go on just like a little reverb [Playing Through the Bridge Pickup on the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block] So the nice thing about this back pickup is you and there's a nice smack to it but a lot of I'll change it up a little bit. I'm going to put think about 335s as jazz guitars, but you know, There are so many non-jazz 335 players, myself sorts of pedals super well. So I'll demo that. to put my Keeley Oxblood on, which is a wonderful [Playing Through the Bridge Pickup on the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block with Overdrive. I think this guitar handles overdrive really which I also love, but yeah, that was some drive, There's so much clarity too that comes with it. Let's I'll play this first demo clean so you can hear what it sounds [Playing Through the Middle Position on the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block with Reverb and Slapback Delay] The thing that's so nice about this guitar is the other with a lot of ease. Like going from the top to the bottom, and it's So I'll stay on this middle pickup and add some modulation and extra reverb vibe. I'll get my Chase Bliss Audio Dark World and Warped Vinyl. [Playing Through the Middle Position on the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block with Modulation and Reverb] In the middle pickup, I do a lot of different some lower stuff on the guitar when but you still get a lot of and that's what I was highlighting in that last It still sounds really beautiful, but you get I'm going to do a cleaner sound, just a little tremolo, a little Flint tremolo with some reverb and guitar is all the open strings, so I'm [Playing Through the Middle Position of the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block with Tremolo] So, this guitar, you can get so much beauty to highlight in the last demo--all those open It's so big and beautiful, just like of different musical settings. Sometimes it's an artist or doing cool little guitar parts lines and everything from jazzy to pop stuff and I think you can do a lot on all the different it to like front pickup is jazzy, back pickup it's just not the case where you can do a lot on I'll do a cleaner thing for this demo on the front pickup, some jazzy sound, some lush pretty things happening on this instrument. [Playing Through the Neck Pickup on the Gibson ES-335 '60s Block] You know, I'm on the front pickup playing not that sort of muffled sound that I think you can So a lot of clarity, single note stuff, chordal stuff, '60s neck and how well this guitar handles So I'm playing the '60s Cherry guitar today. There's the Walnut. I have the '78 Walnut at home, so If you're interested in learning more about head over to GuitarCenter.com, call one of their [Music]