- I'm Darren McGrady, the Royal Chef, former chef to the Queen, Princess Diana, Prince William and Prince Harry, and today I'm going to be and this is one of Prince (royal music) Salmon coulibiac is a Russian dish, and Augustus Escoffier, the Master Chef in the whole universe, he created it with some Russian Naval officers, and then the rest is history. It's been made for hundreds of years. In the dish, we have salmon, mushrooms, onions, some and normally dill, but I like so I'm gonna chop all these, and create the most Salmon was on the menu The queen mother and Prince and I remember one time with this salmon, so I went and the fish started flapping about. Oh my gosh, I'd never seen that before, I'd never lifted a fish that was moving, and it was like a Mexican and I just sort of, ugh, froze, and I had to take it and weight it and make a record of where it was caught, and then get it ready for the royal table. Prince Philip was the first member of the royal family that I met. It was at Balmoral Castle, I was in the kitchen, and and this man walked into the kitchen, this elderly gentleman, and and he had a green all hanging out, and I &quot;Oh, it's the gardener,&quot; and he said, &quot;Is the chef here, please?&quot; And I said, &quot;Uh, just a and I went into the &quot;Chef, the gardener's here to see you,&quot; and he said, &quot;The gardener, So, we both scurried back and I was mortified when the chef said, &quot;Oh, good evening, Your Royal Highness,&quot; and it suddenly dawned on (gasping) So, all the go into the pan with some melted butter, and we're going to with a little salt and translucent, and nice and soft. It was interesting cooking because of the different pallets. Prince Philip has a much broader pallet than Her Majesty when it comes to food. The Queen eats to live, whereas He loves, not only to cook he loves to talk about and when he was traveling all those years, certainly through his time in the Navy, he loved all the different dishes, whether it was sort of curries with lots of garlic and and things like that, he's a real foodie. When we were cooking for okay well, your plate is your plate's having no garlic. It always was down to the so you have everything how she likes it, so I think sometimes Prince eating on his own. (laughing) Prince Philip not only loved to eat, but he loved to cook as well. The royal family go to Balmoral and Prince Philip cooked on the grill maybe three, four, five times a week. He'll cook salmon, he'll cook game, anything on there, he I remember being with him and he came into the kitchen, and he said, &quot;What are we having for And I said, &quot;Well, you have &quot;Your Highness,&quot; and I showed 'em to him, and he said, &quot;Well, what And I said, &quot;Well, those lamb chops there &quot;for the staff, for their dinner tonight.&quot; He said, &quot;Well, we'll have &quot;and I'll cook,&quot; and so he actually cooked on the grill that night, he cooked for me. There was I, his chef, I mean Go out and do royal my job in the kitchen? (laughing) The mushrooms and the to come together now, starting They'll carry on cooking when They're gonna be in the Now, to add the rest of the ingredients. Into this, I'm going to add some rice that I've already cooked. Normally it's white rice, or black rice into this one, too. You could even put quinoa sort of pulses as well. So, once all that's mixed in, it's just correcting that seasoning. Prince Philip is not the Prince Charles likes to cook as well. At Christmas, they would The hampers would start would get a gift hamper from Harrods with all these goodies in and Christmas cakes, and with a hamper from Highgrove. I remember one time, Prince and he said, &quot;Is this the hamper? &quot;Is this the Harrods hamper?&quot; and I said, &quot;No, Your Royal Highness. &quot;This is the hamper &quot;has brought up with him from Highgrove. &quot;It's all of his organic and looked and said, &quot;Bloody I think back then, he or knew what it was, but he was organic before I've trimmed the salmon, so that's ready to perfectly fit into the Now, it's time to build We've got the pastry rolled out, the salmon's already cut-ready, so we do a little of the and my eggs go on top of that. And, invert the salmon over the top 'cause this is gonna be the base. A little more salt and pepper. And then, some more of our filling. Once we've got that, that I'm just going to lay I mean, this is a whole meal in one, just wrapped together in pastry. The next stage is to put a little egg wash around the outside of the pastry, which will seal in all of And, I don't want too much pastry, so I'll trim a little from each end here, and then When the Queen was away on engagements, Prince Philip could taste all of his own favorite ingredients, he and all the pheasant and game He loved all that sort of real spicy food. He loved the black puddings, and sort of enjoy those when the Queen was away on engagements. When they were home together, her breakfast in the sitting room, and Prince Philip would He would have a cooked breakfast, and then they may join unless they've got engagements. Then, afternoon tea and then, obviously in the evening, if there was nothing going then they would eat together then as well. Next, it's going into the to cook the pastry and While the salmon's in the oven cooking, I want to share with you a story about Prince Philip teaching me to cook. We were in the kitchen and Prince Philip walked into the kitchen and he stopped and he looked and he said, &quot;What are you doing peeling the mangoes?&quot; And I said, &quot;Peeling them, sir.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, you're doing it wrong,&quot; and he picked up a mango, he said, &quot;Give me a knife and a spoon.&quot; I thought, oh my gosh, how to cook, so he took a the middle, just like this, he said, &quot;Watch this,&quot; and upside down over the top of the pit. He said, &quot;That's how you &quot;the stone,&quot; and then followed it all around, and From then on, we had to do them that way, just in case he walked into the kitchen. There was no more peeling I've roasted some peppers with just a little garlic 'cause but just enough to give it some flavor, and now I've pureed them and I'm making a little sauce and make the coulibiac I don't think Prince Philip has a go-to when he's sort of splurging out, when he wants something different. I think that his diet is so varied that he wants to try he gets so excited when or he's in another he'll often ask for the recipe. I remember him coming back from Iceland and he said, &quot;I've got this recipe. &quot;I had this most amazing Creme Anglaise,&quot; and it was pancakes with cream and he loved them, absolutely loved them, and from then on, they were on the menu. It's been in the oven for 35 minutes now, it's a nice golden brown, We're gonna bring it out now and rest it. You can see why Prince It's a fish dish. Look at that gorgeous salmon And then, just finish That not only smells amazing, but the rice and the mushrooms and the everything in there is just incredible, and you can see why this was a favorite. No wonder this dish has been The flavors are incredible. Salmon coulibiac, the best! Mm, it's so good.