Professor Paul Bloom: about one of the foundational This is what Francis Crick Hypothesis,&quot; the idea that our our consciousness, our capacity to make decisions a material physical brain. and introduce it, that we're going to continue course, is equally shocking, And this has to do with where not necessary its material And the notion, hypothesis,&quot; is what the described as Darwin's dangerous And this is the modern of biological phenomena phenomena. interested in the evolution of And there is an argument that's and many people have found it including Darwin himself. Origin of Species, was this argument from--in the form William Paley. Paley tells--gives the example and your foot hits a rock. &quot;Where did that rock come And you don't really expect an question. Maybe it fell from the sky. But suppose you found a watch where the watch had come from. not be satisfying to simply say came there as an accident. make a point, complicated and interesting Paley is--was a medical doctor watch and compare a watch to the and the eye contain multitudes complicated ways to do In fact, to change and to an eye is very much like a And they're similar at a deep They both have lenses that bend a light-sensitive surface. surface is the retina. They both have a focusing For the eye it's muscles that For a camera it's a diaphragm incoming light. black. eye and part of the camera are The difference is--So in fact, alike and we know the camera is The camera has been constructed intelligent beings to fulfill a In fact, if there's any the eye and things like a the difference is that things complicated than things like the When I was a kid I had this Six Million Dollar Man.&quot; heard of it? Anyway, the idea is there's a and his rocket jet crashes and his arm and his eye, they replace them with bionic with artificial leg, artificial eye that are really And then he fights crime. It was [laughs] It was really good, but the thing is this was in It's now over thirty years it's true now, It doesn't make it to the level It's fantasy. developing machines that could We are impossibly far away from what the human eye does. points out, &quot;Look. biological world suggests that artifacts created by a designer engineer. of course, would be God.&quot; That--I don't mean that to be in any sense. I went to &quot;Google Images&quot; and showed up right in the middle Paley argued, throughout most of history, explanation for where these It also has the advantage of and compatible with religious point this stands on its own. that--complicated artifacts, by accident. created by an intelligent being. problems. &quot;creationism,&quot; which is that created by an intelligent being, One problem is it pushes back So you ask, &quot;Where did that And this is a particularly standpoint of the evolution of So, we want to know, across--upon this earth with the do things?&quot; another creature with that That doesn't necessarily mean unsatisfying. explanation for where that other More to the point, for evolution. here isn't necessarily a but merely the fact that body all of a sudden, within other existing animals history. different forms. different body parts suggesting rudimentary form. characteristics. are characteristics that human inexplicable, goose-bumps, unless you view current form as modifications There are parallels with other And this is clear in psychology. from the rat, the same time you see them and common structures. this is that they're linked Finally, there is occasional So, Paley rhapsodized about the body and the different body but even Paley admitted that don't work very well. because of how the nerves are In the male urinary system the prostate gland instead of around which leads to many physical life. argue that these are really good malicious or incompetent. arguments to make. creationist view. in human intellectual history And in fact, the most prominent prominent evolutionary most staunchest critics of has written in The Blind look, anybody 100 years ago or that God created humans and because the argument from design And in the absence of some go--defer to that. &quot;Well, there are all of these biological forms must have incredible rich and intricate What changed all that of course And Darwin--Darwin's profound you get these complicated like the eye, non-intentional, a purely physical process. in importance to the claim that Sun and that we're not the And in fact, suggestion which seems natural selection is the most period. evolution and I expect people to If you don't have a background background from external textbook and the Norton readings with enough background to get up But the general idea is that natural selection. And this variation gives rise and reproduction and gets passed and gives rise to adaptations, perfection of structure that And the biological world has You look at camouflage. imagine that some intelligent from their prey. alternative, which is that survive better, and over the course of years, camouflage. Paley's favorite example - the So Darwin himself noted that emerge all at once but rather and find parallels in other that more rudimentary forms are And more recently computer been developed that have crafted of selective pressure and what So, this is the theory of The good question to ask is, evolution in Introduction to And the answer is that there together. they're both of the dangerous One idea is that Darwin's evolve through this purely The second idea, is that our minds are the physical events. forces you to the perspective life is no less than the eye, the product of this purely selection. our cognitive mechanisms were not as random accidents, survival and reproduction. you could argue they've been solve certain problems. point of view, is and what the brain does, these problems. for. for. capacities to solve different world, communication, and so on. how to apply evolutionary theory But as we're doing so we have misconceptions. seriously wrong here. well, if we're taking an natural selection will cause genes. about it, that means everybody to spread my genes.&quot; really --Oops. This is really wrong. And what this fails to do is ultimate causation and proximate And those are technical terms is the reason why something is over millions of years of Proximate causation is why And these are different. animals do all sorts of things but a cockroach doesn't think I'm doing this to help survive genes.&quot; anything about genes. make it do what it does are states, if it has any--why it This is a point nicely made by So, William James is asked, And he writes, when taking his dinner ever He eats because the food tastes If you asked him why you should like that, instead of revering he will probably laugh at you And it's really the common &quot;Why are you eating?&quot; &quot;Because I must sustain my body future.&quot; hungry. you eat because you're hungry so you could spread your genes are not alternative. levels of explanation. The ultimate level which does reproduction does not--is psychological level. people protect their children protect their children? much effort to protecting and children?&quot; explanation is animals that don't last over evolutionary We protect our offspring percent of our genes, psychological explanation. psychologist would ever answer, they contain fifty percent of my Rather, the psychological different and has a different And this will be a lot clearer where you could really see a of why we feel something from an why we feel it from a day-to-day The second misconception is that everything is adaptive, everything we think is This is wrong. evolution, more generally, and byproducts and accidents. or will as you get older, If I was to ask you, pain? survive and reproduce?&quot; adaptation. byproduct of how our backs are Don't go looking for an self-pity or bloating after you There's all sorts of things a adaptive value, We have a body that does all Some things it will do by true for psychology. So, a lot of the things, that occupy our interest or our are almost certainly The number--The three--Three of humans are pornography, if I asked you, and you'd say, porn reproduced more than those it's not true. assuming you do, as an accident. should you be a heterosexual attracted to women. evolutionary adaptation because wanting to have sex with women having kids, evolutionary perspective. though, in our modern created images that substitute. out and seeking out women you hours and hours and watch dirty evolutionary adaptive dead ends. Why do you like chocolate bars, It is not because your who enjoyed chocolate bars didn't. evolved a taste for sweet And we've evolved a taste for in part, because the sweet environment like fruit were good In the modern world we have which are not so good for us A lot of the debates--There's a over the scope of evolutionary And a lot of the debate tends and what isn't. We have color vision. Well, I think everybody would adaptation because of the seeing and making visual We are afraid of snakes. in more detail but there's a about that. because, really, afraid of snakes didn't were. enjoy NASCAR. because chocolate bars and that could not have been Those are easy questions. Music. like music. selective advantage or is it an Steven Pinker, Instinct that you read controversy when he argued that accident. cheesecake, something we like to no--has no adaptive advantage. have an adaptive advantage. coerce sex. biological adaptation or is it There's more than one language. byproduct of the way language group or selectionist advantage having multiple languages? What about fiction? Those are all matters of heated And so, we have to keep in mind accidents. aren't accidents. study of psychology and the is trying to figure out which is So, those are the But still, who cares? to Psych course. evolution? psychologist how the mind has I'm going to talk about of the course I'm just period. Well, many people think it For instance - and they think - one claim is a metaphysical You might be a dualist. mental life is the product of is irrelevant to psychology mind--because the brain, has nothing interesting to do Lisa Simpson got it wrong when half right when she said the It is true. many years ago, Darwinian theory is not Darwinian theory is a view that is not motivated by any is a genuine scientific theory, true, it is not incompatible to Church. this and they were--they said But what a fewer people talk said this he drew the line. body but he would not allow for So it was--he wrote: its origin from preexisting the spiritual soul is Consequently, consider the mind as emerging or as a mere epiphenomenon of the truth about man. evolution to be true about the that the mind is not subject to rest of the physical world. evolutionary psychology. evolutionary psychology is to physical thing but then argue these hard-wired facets of human animals but they don't exist for So, the anthropologist Ashley close to when The Six shown, by the way, With the exception of the withdrawals of support and to the human being is entirely Man is man because he has no is and has become he has learned from the man-made part of the beings. He could believe that in '74 all of the infant studies that suggested that's not true and nowadays.&quot; the view is often New Yorker article a few &quot;Every aspect of life has a the same sense, biologically possible it After that it's up for grabs.&quot; an argument that evolution can't most interesting about people. intelligent scholar. the findings of Spelke and hard-wired to understand the on. it comes to the more interesting the stuff we're naturally, that's more cultural. Darwinian theory just doesn't it, separate from the brain but just cultural organisms, say about it. which is you might think, does contain instincts. should just study it by studying How could evolution, the consideration of evolution I actually, in my own work, some interesting things. case for ways in which evolution about the mind as it is. which is although this course the mind as it is, the evolution of consciousness, just is intuitively interesting. people are just fascinated by interest in and of its own But here's how it could tell us For one thing, innate and what cannot. some evolutionary problems, time and could lead to special If I told you there is a talking, mate selection, maybe it's true, but it's not crazy. view, it's a reasonable Other problems are recent and specialized to deal with them: interacting with strangers, playing chess. there's a part of the brain I would say you're utterly You cannot be right because, view, there could be no such because playing chess is a As a result, discipline us to make coherent and what isn't built-in. about human differences in this We're going to devote a class of what makes you different from Why do we have different Why are some of us arrogant and Some of us like--attracted to and so on. group differences. help us say intelligent things differences you should expect predicts that some populations than others. that children should be The evolutionary problems faced from the evolutionary problems And you can make specific and about how children's brains adults' brains. predicts--does not make any differences or ethnic Some might exist, why humans who have evolved in should have profound differences What does evolutionary theory Well, it says some interesting devote a class to discussing but what I think is going to be that we'll be able to use sensibly about what sort of between males and females, what sort one wouldn't expect to We can make educated I'm going to have--I want to This is a scene from a movie, begins with a man making the differences between men and And I want to put this as an &quot;barroom evolutionary And I want us to hold this in return to these claims and I like this for a few reasons. reference to William James and Second, it is a gorgeous are actually reasonably rational And--but what evolutionary tools to distinguish between the On the face of it immediately, the claim that that has a that ability have a biological On the other hand, may develop a trait not because females is less crazy. crazy but--;So, going to devote a lecture to I do not, at this point, or another. that from a biological point of intelligent things about what what shouldn't. looking at something from the the perspective of what's it interesting insights as to its And I'll give you two quick psychology, one that is. are pregnant early in their sickness, nausea, This has traditionally been the system--too much hormones, women get nauseous. alternative and this won her the And this was the claim that an accident; it has a biological purpose. as the baby develops in the various sorts of poisons or Profet suggested that pregnancy period where women are extremely get extremely nauseous towards damage their baby. it's a story. But then she went on to examine scientist examines any claim - testing them. predictions. and offset of pregnancy should correspond to the period part of the developing embryo or Suggested the types of foods those sorts of foods that were that were deadly for the fetus evolved. important one. aversion to alcohol during extremely dangerous to the The answer is an easy one. our evolutionary history and we to protect ourselves from it. there should be a relationship defects in a surprising For Profet, and she has pregnancy sickness is not a Rather, it's the sign of a mechanism going on. the more morning sickness the protected. by and large, That's an example of how the they say, &quot;Hey. pregnant&quot; and then say, Maybe that's not just a glitch. You could then learn some Here's a different example this wonderful lecture by Peter talked about the &quot;big three.&quot; remind you of what attracts us You are very attracted to the that--because of proximity, And there is abundant evidence It's almost always true but the at this and says there's There are some cases where that absolutely mistaken. think for a moment. to, most similar to and most What humans did you spend over are genetically and as if they were related, with? find the hottest? They're your siblings and they [laughter] morning. and--but--although we may find with some rare and bizarre one another hot. Well, this is not a huge puzzle evolutionary biology. that humans, as well as other avoidance. attracted to those familiar to close to us, Kin are off limits. Because if you inter-mate with [laughter] up not to mate with their kin. this is what happens. have all sorts of concerns. in fact, sexual. your daughter from going out and or the wrong people, But there are no parenting &quot;How do you keep your children another?&quot; You typically do not need to sex with one another. illustrates the difference causation. &quot;Eew. sister?&quot; &quot;I would prefer not to, create will be nonviable and reproductive efforts.&quot; &quot;Eew,&quot; because at a gut level And this sort of instinctive evolutionary analysis of sex. incomplete because the question tell?&quot; your kin but how do you tell People don't carry their DNA see. are? be a really interesting It used--And some research simple. grew up with. from kibbutz studies, communally on an Israeli They know they're not related, were raised together as kids gut level not to be attracted to It turns out there's some is incomplete. Nature five days ago interesting studies. being raised together as a child that does diminish sexual was &quot;did you observe your and in particular, taking care of that person?&quot; diminishes sexual desire and disgust. of questions and issues you things from an evolutionary Okay. For this lecture--the rest of couple of lectures, aspects of human nature that informed by evolutionary theory. the remainder of this lecture is Now, some of you maybe not want psychology because there's no You might all think, the sciences I want a Nobel Think how proud Bubby and Zadie Wouldn't that be the best?&quot; Psychologists have won the Most recently, Prize. sometimes medicine; He won it for his work done on human rationality. collaboration with Amos Tversky, ago. transformed the way we think rationality. revolution in economics, sciences more generally, idea that we're logical with the axioms of logic and more towards the idea that we ready heuristics. during the time--during our but sometimes they can lead us And I want to give some And I'll give four examples of permeate our reasoning. This was a classic study by this sort of question. is preparing for the outbreak kill six hundred people. Program A: If you follow it two Program B: There's a one-third and a two-third chance nobody Who would choose program B? Who would choose program A? And that fits the responses. That's--It could go either way. frame the question differently, different responses. people who will be saved, will die and, chance that nobody will die and die, you get a corresponding flip. effect.&quot; that you could respond depending on how the options are And, in particular, aversion.&quot; &quot;Four thousand of these people and so the framing can influence And clever advertisers and frame things in different ways different intuitions. simple. hamburger that's eighty percent fat--You don't have to be a out which one to go for. fundamental act - the effects - is not limited to So, I want to take a second and colleague, Laurie Santos, And what she does is she takes teaches them to use money. discs to buy themselves either apple. And they very quickly learn you banana or some apple. [laughter] Santos and her colleagues have method, but the study I'm shows framing effects in these So, what she does is--There's In one option, object to the capuchin and or two--half the time gives one, for an average of one and a The other experimenter does gives one or two for an average but starts off displaying two. how would you feel about these They both give you the same And capuchins are extremely but it turns out as predicted experimenter because the pink two--shows you two and half the This guy shows you one, two. preference for the experimenter suggesting that they are being choices relative to a reference A different sort of effect.&quot; interesting effect. I show you something like a cup &quot;How much will you give me for It looks like you're pretty How much will you give me for And you say, this chocolate bar.&quot; two--the chocolate bar--gives The other condition's exactly chocolate bar and say, me that chocolate bar for?&quot; &quot;Two fifty,&quot; and in fact, something its value shoots up. economists and psychologists. The chocolate bar doesn't even I just leave it on the table you spend,&quot; &quot;How much will you or &quot;Okay. How much do you want for me to The answer is, it's framing. want for it, it's a game. to get something. much do you want for me to take loss. valuable. The second example is base There are seventy seventy engineers and thirty random. forty-years old, conservative, politics, awkward around people. sailing, and solving like online dating. [laughter] A lawyer or an engineer? Good. Okay. engineer, but here's the thing. Right? seventy lawyers? People--No matter what this doesn't seem to change who you are. individual and they ignore the came from. Base rates are very difficult give you an example of this. slides for when you print them might want to work through it But I'll give this to you There's a disease that hits one a pretty common disease. and if you have it, it. your blood and &quot;boom,&quot; if the will go &quot;boom.&quot; it will tell you you have it. On the other hand, It has a false positive rate of So, if you don't have the time the test will say you have So, if the test says you don't But if the test says you have it's a false positive. It says you have the disease. how likely do you think the Who says over fifty percent? Before people sinisterly people will tend--medical medical students less savvy between fifty percent and The answer is, two percent. One percent of a thousand will That person will test positive. That leaves nine hundred have the disease, percent of these people have it. who test positive, giving an average of about two This sort of thing is very Our minds are not evolved to do And so, any problems involving including real world problems, back with a positive test, And often we screw up in the The third bias is the And this is simply that if you something is, mind is an excellent cue. A classic example by Kahneman people--one group of people how or what proportion of English another group of people what It turns out you get much &quot;ng&quot; though, of course &quot;ng&quot; has &quot;ng&quot; would include everything It's just a lot easier to think This can show up in the real What are your risk of getting getting killed by a shark? their risk of getting killed by characteristically overestimate I will give you the news of killed by a shark. one in six million. million. which apparently is Shark injured is about one in a half People will overestimate the very salient. news and they're very What is the chance of getting [laughter] death by food poisoning, to about one in fifty-five, injury and one in 55,000 killed. times more dangerous than shark But you get it wrong because &quot;Oh, my God, Somebody dies by potato salad.&quot; And so, we tend to overestimate dramatic effects. States, what proportion? quarters of the United States is [laughter] Okay. Who thinks over half? Who thinks over twenty percent? Who thinks over fifteen percent? Who thinks over seven and Who thinks over five percent? Who thinks overall there's more States that's Jewish? Who thinks over three percent? 1.9 and 2.1%. American thinks it's twenty There is-- [laughter] demographics, entirely trusted because I got [laughter] Jewish population, different parts of the United [laughter] of course, the most dense New Haven has 3.5%. Now, why do people get it wrong? reasons and this is going to social psychology when we talk human groups. who are plainly Jewish are people notice them, in the case of you guys, And this could lead to--this Jew? [laughter] overestimate the proportion to the population. Confirmation bias. it's very simple. custody case. custody - either a mother or One parent has average income, average working hours, child, and a relatively stable The second parent has an minor health problems, a very close relationship with and an extremely active social Think for a moment. with? there's no right answer here. Who would award custody to Who would award custody to Okay. room, when this study is done parent B. You give another group of &quot;Which parent would you deny You get a slight advantage for Now, this is to some extent an but it's also a more general bias. custody to, you then ask, a sign that somebody's a good And the good parent aspects of When asking about denying &quot;Where is a cue that somebody's And the bad parent aspects of B In general, when we have a confirmations. which are logically easy when we face them in the real And I'll end with my final selection task. And people--I don't want people There is four cards. side and a number on the other You have to judge whether this &quot;If a card has a 'D' on one side.&quot; turn over to test whether that Okay. card is you have to turn over. Everybody gets that right. Do you need to do any other How many people think it's &quot;D&quot; I'm raising my hand to fool you. People answer either &quot;D&quot; or &quot;D&quot; What would make this rule wrong? side and not &quot;3&quot; on the other. That's what it would be to be You then would have to check the other side. That means you'd check &quot;8&quot; to other side. anything. People find this very hard. Big deal. can modify it in certain ways to And this is the work of Leda an evolutionary psychologist at that if you frame these ecological sense, And basically, people who are evaluating a Imagine these cards. alcohol--is a drink. age. want to make sure nobody under Which cards do you turn over? logic is the same. &quot;under twenty-one&quot; on one side, so you need to check the &quot;under check the &quot;beer&quot; here. problems more ecologically valid Okay. There's a little bit more but class. response, which is to do your and evolutionary psychology. Wednesday.