Forget dusty exhibits and lifeless displays, at explodes into life. This immersive and interactive the ages and a day is just not enough time to take time periods, from the 1820s through to the transport relics of the past. We'll time travel cottages, a glowing coal fire, picturesque Experience life in a coal mining community and Stroll along a wonderful Edwardian town businesses and catch a glimpse of the truly a day to remember immersed in the past Instead of a traditional gate Beamish Museum history, &quot;Tiny Tim&quot; a massive steam hammer once used to shape metal at their Consett iron step back in time and immerse yourself in the like this one shaped the landscape and lives Durham and Newcastle upon Tyne in the North of visiting on this website. Tickets last a year so at 10:00 a.m. and we were some of the first many buses and trams that run around this vast packed due to the sudden influx of people but wait long. We took a ride on this 1947 Sunderland the streets of Sunderland until 1962 when it Beautifully restored it has been used at the We'll do a circuit of the museum grounds first so you the wonderful recreations that we'll explore and off the buses at numerous stops along Taking an anticlockwise route can experience life in a rural northern A Georgian wagon way cottages and Pockerly Old Hall will have As we carry on round it's a race between 16 tram built in 1900. Tramways offered a solution the late 1800s replacing slower horsedrawn overhead lines have been salvaged from Newcastle, We are just passing the newly developed 1950s Town it was just a few weeks away from The sweeping s bend turn of the road brings us where you can explore shops and businesses It's a popular stop for visitors So we've got the bus to ourselves everyone has a loop of the museum first of all to get the Just before the bend on the right you a delightfully recreated Edwardian station was moved here brick by brick! More on that later. At the next stop we said farewell to the bus our loop. At this stop, you can visit either the The farm offers a fascinating glimpse into rural life it's about how the war impacted everyday life from We had to wait a few minutes at this stop a replica of a 1910 London General We also waited for tram 114, one of 20 open through the streets of Newcastle upon Tyne on this city. Built by Hurst Nelson Co in Motherwell After serving faithfully for decades 114 the end of the story. Its body was recovered few more moves and finally arriving at Beamish using as many original parts as possible. They from a tram in Porto Portugal and controllers Beamish go to to give machines and buildings From our tram to our final stop on the loop we real and alive. We'll step back to 1913, the experience the sights, sounds and even the smells Right, that's all the fun on the transport The stone carving depicts horsepower Long before the age of steam horses As far back as 1600, they hauled wagons filled with of wooden tracks and wagons with wooden technological stepping stone that led to the the year 1825 when the Stockton and Darlington slowly started to replace horses and the wooden in this technology wagonways crisscrossed the fueling the burgeoning Industrial revolution. the landscape on &quot;Puffing Billy&quot;, a replica A selection of period coaches are used to convey This included a black &quot;chaldron&quot; wagon which was to the rivers and ports. They were particularly mining was a major industry and wagonways were close to several of these wagons around the yard used to measure coal, it varied regionally but was We didn't wait for a ride on the train impossible to get around all the areas in one day. need two days now due to the size and detail of The great shed highlights the support systems needed to keep the wagonway running relies on more than just vehicles, it requires This coal fire was a welcome sight as it As we begin to walk down into the fields of crops and hay meadows that showcase the incursion of industry can be clearly seen A symbol of the Industrial Age We are approaching the Quilter's cottage which follows the life of Joseph Hedley, Joseph was early 19th century. His intricate patchwork quilts In 1826 Joe was brutally murdered in and is unsolved to this day. His original cottage permission to excavate the location and found the fireplace and sections of foundation walls. cottage has been rebuilt and includes the original the crack in the wall from the drawing of 1826 with a heather thatch typical of what a rural the 1820s. The interior is normally furnished sense of how Joe would have lived and the tools quilts. The cottage highlights the importance the 1820s. Quilting like many other crafts was St Helen's church has a fascinating history that Yorkshire its oldest part dates back to the vital hub for the local community witnessing Sadly by the late 20th century, the church fell Facing demolition it was rescued by Beamish by brick. It was stored for a decade before it numbered ready for painstaking reconstruction outside of the church. The tower is late 1600s The Nave was rebuilt in the 19th and other period artefacts bought in from other Climbing the hill we arrive at Pockerley wealthy tenant farmer during the in its original location having stood A Farmstead attached to the house worked and who did the work. This is a living that would have been typical for the period. You might see demonstrations going depends on what's happening each day. This The main farmhouse is thought to see costumed characters going about daily life. A lavish afternoon tea has been laid out on the The Squire's bedroom on the first floor is bright This is the dry storeroom containing grain odd that this was on the first floor however the warmth from below helped keep the This is the hind room where three or It's a pretty dark and dingy room and a a trap door is the only way in and out for The gardens at Pockley Old Hall they would have provided food, medicine and glimpse into the horticultural practices are laid out in a series of terraces The gardens highlight the importance of relied on their own gardens to provide Let's catch a tram and move on to a new The North of England with its rich seams British coal industry, dotting this tight-nit communities built around Beamish allows us to step back Northeast and experience the sights Coal mining villages were a unique feature by the colliery owners to house their workers heavily reliant on the mine. Life was tough and the everpresent threat of accidents or of strong community spirit, where people looked Davies is a recreation of a traditional increasingly popular in the early 1900s. The the quick takeaways we know today but places to real fish and chip shop at Winlaton Mill Tyne and fixtures and fittings including a 1934 coal The Francis Street cottages were originally built in County Durham. They were built by the They usually had a kitchen at the back room or parlour. Life would have been basic but the limited space and daily life revolved around carefully dismantled brick by brick and rebuilt mine manager's office for meetings and receiving Number two is laid out as a Methodist home, Number three, the home of a family diverse communities drawn to the Number four, a somber atmosphere hangs over highlighting the everpresent dangers faced by Wages were often low, allotments provided with fresh fruit and vegetables, they were a Allotments weren't just about growing and their families to meet and chat, There would often be friendly rivalry over who Tending to the allotment could be a welcome escape Just like Francis Street, the Pit it was originally built in the 1850s in the 1990. The chapel represents the strong Methodist in the Northeast. Methodism offered a source harsh and dangerous world of coal mining. Pit chapels like this were important social hubs services but also a variety of events. Children Bible and Christian values. They were also used of course, many chapels had choirs that would Originally built in 1892 the schoolhouse served just a couple of miles from Beamish. It was A large classroom where children of various Wooden desks and a prominent blackboard evoke The atmosphere reflects the strict discipline Writing and Arithmetic. Visitors can experience playground games like hopscotch, marbles or grab At the other end of the village is the Colliery a mix of buildings and machinery from various an underground mine that has an entry above water entry is driven horizontally into the seam or taking coal to Beamish ChopHill. You can take a with interested families so we avoided it in the The colliery railway is a direct recreation of a the early 20th century. It demonstrates how moving it from the pit head by rail and The prominent stone winding house the colliery showcasing how coal was brought up lowered into the mine and coal was brought back by how much they hued, a numbered disc attached After processing the tubs left Chaldron wagons on the standard The engine works keeps the wheels 1885. The colliery engines are maintained movement of wagons from time to time You can often see them in various providing a rare glimpse under the Across from the school is the Pit Pony the mining industry. The small Shetland tunnels. Sadly they were worked from the age entire lives. Most of the ponies at Beamish were no longer wanted or needed and The Hetton Silver Band Hall tells the story of a at Hetton Hall, the band initially practised national success and with winnings from the around the old Hut, dismantling it from within hub for almost a century facing challenges leading to the Hall's donation and meticulous Opened in 2019 the Northern General Transport fleet of historic buses running. Accommodating allows the staff to service these wonderful This is a 37 seater 1928 Northern General from service in 1948 it became a caravan but The Leyland Lion Sunderland Corporation in 1929 to serve routes A replica of a 1913 Daimler Motorbus based on vehicles supplied to What's really nice I think about the museum cuz it's kids half term you find pockets, cuz the place is so big and we're down nice. You can just hear the birds and I you got the trams and the buses but it's Rowley Station is a fascinating piece of Northeast building to come to Beamish opening in 1976 The exhibit consists of the station platform, drop that came from West Bolden highlighting the Special wagons could drop coal through the tracks The goods yard was a busy area adjacent to shunted and assembled into trains. It different types of wagons and allows the During peak season and most weekends, trains chug up and down a short piece ride. Sadly we were here midweek so didn't The bridge is made of wrought iron, a common and early 20th centuries. Strong durable It was a common site at stations across Britain safely. This one was relocated from Springwell A North Eastern Railway Hut has been converted allotments popped up at stations. A proud station plants and vegetables, reminding us of a time railway stations and staff entered North Eastern The station served the small rural community of 1845. It was a typical country station with basic particularly &quot;ganister&quot; a type of industries of the area. It was a lifeline for delivery of goods. Like many rural railways the early 20th century with the rise of The signal box was originally built near Consett County Durham. It was a busy and Iron Works. It was the nerve centre The signalman inside had a vital responsibility the railway. It retains its original level the points which directed trains onto different to proceed or stop. The signal box also a telephone and telegraph, instruments giving When the line at Carr box was threatened with demolition, Before we arrive in the 1900s a delightful addition to the overall experience. It's a traditional Edwardian-style Fairground complete with vintage rides and games. Very The meticulously recreated Edwardian 1900s Town transports you to the years It's a place where you can stroll along cobble clatter of a horsedrawn carriage or the bell of it's a carefully curated experience designed to a glimpse into the everyday lives of ordinary the time, visit shops selling traditional goods town also reflects a period of social change telephones appearing alongside traditional ways staff who inhabit the town playing the roles of Ravenworth Terrace gives an insight into Originally built on Bensham Bank in Gateshead from demolition in the 1970s and relocated the architectural style of the time but also of the professionals who would have lived individuals who once called these houses home. would have had an attic room for servants. they were very popular making it difficult Number three was a dentist's surgery and number as two separate houses there is a connecting this was common for professionals like dentists welcomed patients into a waiting room at the a reenactment was going on, the surgery the utensils used for false teeth, although The family house is furnished in a style You'll find cosy rooms with floral wallpaper, has a flushing toilet and bath, gone are The solicitor's office is set up to resemble figure in politics, education and Industrial the status of the solicitor, a large desk, filled with legal volumes and documents strewn on The smaller clerk's office would have been where the clerk, essentially a legal As we begin to walk down the main cobbled a pub where they are pulling pints for adult inside. The pub originally stood on High Bondgate, one down cottage. Around the back are the Inns so travellers and their horses could MG Armstrong's immigration and shipping agents, rapid growth of industry in countries like a huge demand for workers. Many immigrants were Armstrong's took advantage of this and The co-op building came from Annfield plain in 1870. It opened at the Museum in 1984. There are where visitors can experience shopping in hardware store and see what's on offer. In 1844 struggled to afford decent food. Determined to pooled their meager savings and opened a small goods at fair prices, giving each member a voice based on how much they spent. This revolutionary stores sprouted up across the nation offering a forces to buy in bulk, further reducing costs for into banking, insurance and other services democracy and shared ownership. Today the movement with over a billion members from cooperatives continue to empower communities and that ordinary people can achieve extraordinary the hardware store supplied a vast array of Stepping into a drapery in the early 1900s was was the spot to find all sorts of materials, cottons for summer dresses and if you were for a posh outfit. But it wasn't all about the actually make the clothes, needles, pins, The person running the shop the Draper all things fabric and sewing. Need help figuring they were your go-to expert. Basically the drapery Before digital tills shops needed a information around. Enter the Lamson crisscrossing the ceiling. When you bought slip with the sale details into a container, along the tracks to the central cashier's was super efficient, prevented theft and Unlike modern supermarkets with their grocery emphasises traditional practices. weighed and dispensed into paper bags, while of lard speak to a time before mass Jubilee Confectioners always draws a big crowd shop interior is a feast for the senses, with with mouthwatering sweets. Behind a glass process in action. A real shame we couldn't Motoring was still in its early days before the first world war, a time when cars Inside the Motor and Cycle Works cars and early motorcycles, maybe even a penny you might see them chugging around the museum The workshop is a treasure trove mechanics hard at work tinkering with engines into the ingenuity required to keep these early rapid technological advancement and changing and challenges of early motoring when cars This is a replica of a Barcley's banks were being acquired and merged with Granite used on the ground floor frontage is On the ground floor you'll find barred and the office of the well-respected bank manager. You can experience what banking was about pounds shillings and pence. Downstairs you're welcome to explore the holding the cash, safety deposit boxes, deeds and documents. Beside the bank is the Masonic Hall 1870 serving the Freemasons at Park Terrace organization with a long history and rituals. meetings and ceremonies, a somewhat secretive to men. However, there are now women's lodges and contains the main Lodge room for ceremonies and This distinctive corner building is based on frontage perfect for displaying goods. Home to The shop highlights a time when chemists they also provided healthcare care advice and Photographers were often near or all the chemicals for developing was a popular Victorian pastime.You can Joseph Herron's Bakery was, in the late 1970s along with the co-op building. It offers Edwardian baking. Bakeries were not just places people gathered to exchange news and socialise. watching skilled bakers knead dough, shape loaves Tthe aroma of freshly baked bread, pastries to indulge in a taste of the past, although Continuing your cobbled stone walk Let's visit the 1940s Farm around Ahh, it's nice to get back to a bit of by far the most popular part of the museum how you'd expect a town to be I guess! The 1940s farm transports us to wartime Britain, vital contribution of &quot;Land Girls&quot; were part of a lot of its food, the conflict forced the had to increase production dramatically and Farmers were often exempt from being called up and shipbuilding. Much of this farm is in its farmers were encouraged to plough to focus on producing the most essential Many farmers purchased a &quot;Fordson around the farm. The government provided these machines. They worked alongside You'll see traditional farm animals farm and across the museum. They played a This huge stone cheese press was used for The iconic AGA cooker was a staple in many homes, Authentic pots, pans and utensils from the era The &quot;make do and mend&quot; catchphrase is highlighted evidence of how people made things last with The &quot;wireless&quot;, the radio was a vital the war often the centrepiece of the living room. In the grounds of the farm are two labourers' who were moved from towns and cities to other represents accommodation for &quot;land that provided agricultural labour during the war. were quite busy. In the garden is an Anderson There is also a 1950s Farm to explore at Beamish sadly time beat us to visit this. As I said it's one day, which is why I guess they give you The 1950s town was just 2 weeks away from fully of post-war recovery and social change in Britain. and you can buy fish and chips, have your hair proper haircut here, first come first served or tunes. All very busy today due to hungry visitors. actual home of Norman Cornish a famous artist from of artists called the &quot;Spennymoor Settlement&quot; who was a coal miner who also had an incredible talent everyday life in his community especially scenes see furniture, decor and objects typical Upstairs there's a recreation of his of his art materials and even unfinished works. Front Street will lead to a new housing I'm sure it's now open. The Grand has been brought to life screening Well, what an incredible day we've had here at but lots of sights through the different you've enjoyed being with us today, we've got lots museums then check out Blists Hill Victorian but thanks for watching, do subscribe and join