- [Narrator] Tucked away in in Edina, Minnesota, employees pack about 1,000 orders every day. This is one of 2,000 that fulfill 95% of the It's Target's biggest play in the race for fastest shipping. As the smallest retailer of the group, it's banking on its greatest asset. This network of physical The strategy is a big departure from how retailers typically using giant warehouses to ship But Target is reaching - Over 75% of Americans live within 10 miles of a Target store. - [Narrator] Here's how the is rethinking distribution to keep up in the high stakes (gentle pensive music) - What stores as hubs was for Target, it was an intentional moment our brick and mortar assets, - [Narrator] As Target ramped up same-day and next-day delivery, it into mini-fulfillment centers. That meant designating backroom space for shipping needs, like - You probably will find many more stores closer to the consumer, so you may reduce the time. - [Narrator] Say you order and it's available at a store nearby. That store will fulfill the order locally. In a typical e-commerce that toy might have been picked and packed in a larger center much further away. Target has only 14 of those compared to its 2,000 stores, so... - It made a lot of sense for them to try to kind of work - [Narrator] With Target's will pick your toy Then it's brought to the back room, where your order will be before it's added to Target says shipping from than routing the order But relying on stores to and digital customers comes - There's a limited amount of space. You know, these are existing stores. These are buildings that already exist. - As digital volume continues that creates strain and You know, building Well, the sortation center really relieves that pressure - [Narrator] The company opened this Minneapolis sortation center in 2020. Facilities like these while shipping at high volume. Every day, orders are packaged and trucked from 43 local Target store shelves and brought here for sorting and delivery. - We'll process around 35,000 This specific facility, up to 45,000, and 350,000 through Cyber Monday alone. - [Narrator] 130 employees 24 hours a day to get (metal clanging) Once your order arrives off the truck, it comes to the induction into the facility and places - They're flowing down through here, and they're gonna come to At this pick off point, a As the packages come in, they would read Target Last Mile Delivery, and then they would let down this line. - [Narrator] This process that Target delivers for itself, or Target Last Mile Delivery, from those destined The orders dispatched to or FedEx are often going - It could be an adjacent market, it could be a regional hub. - [Narrator] But if it's being your package will flow to be sorted again and again and again. - We break that down further into partitions or again, that coincide with dispatches. Once those geographic we would route those down that one of our ship and make the delivery of on that route to a guest's home. - [Narrator] Once your order has made it to these route carts, it's Target uses Shipt, which to make some of its deliveries. The drivers are independent contractors using their own cars. At designated times throughout the day, the garage doors open Workers push the carts out for load-in. Target uses analytics and data but the thing that keeps your order moving through the sortation center is low tech. It's this. The label on every package. - [Guest] Each team member for specific visual cues the package will transition to. So in the initial pick off, I'm looking for Target Last or something else. If it's Target Last Mile Delivery, I'm sending it down the During the partition sort, I'm looking for what partition number, and then I'm pulling those packages off, staging them on pallets that coincide with that partition number. Following the route sortation, we're gonna get a specific route number, a specific package stop, and then the lane and specific location of the cart that coincides to the route. - [Narrator] Those through the facility fast. Since Target opened its first the company says that next-day deliveries have increased by more than 150%. Now the retailer has 10 of - They say it's a more efficient way to handle many more deliveries. That's sort of by, like, getting them closer to people's homes, into a place that is or delivery services to pick things up. They can process many more - That has allowed us to save over the last few years since - [Narrator] But Target's about lowering costs. - If you think of ordering you realize how much to get fast delivery, especially that can be ordered in like, diapers for example. Target has to stay very competitive, and staying competitive today means having a very efficient and very - [Narrator] The retailer had just 1.8% of the e-commerce market share in 2023 compared to Walmart's But that pie is still growing. - We knew that e-commerce was will continue to be the future, and we needed to meet the moment. - Target is in a different place in general right now compared They wanna be fast, in some of these other things that their business is confronting. They're doing it against a in some cases, so that makes in some ways for them. But that also means with just doing the basics So that's tricky. - [Narrator] Especially doesn't come cheap. - Think about the things you buy online, like a tube of toothpaste. Sending a tube of toothpaste to your house costs a lot more money on that tube of toothpaste. You see Target trying to by offering things like picking which is a little bit - The reason why we're in the sortation center market to the guest, we have to our Last Mile Delivery carriers, connecting that carton to - [Narrator] The company also addresses the environmental - Solutions like sortation help us drive our sustainability goals, as it reduces the amount and our drivers are on the road, as well as consolidating packages from multiple starting - [Narrator] Target is as a hub strategy will best position it to compete in the Shipping Wars. - We are investing $100 expanding our network of sortation centers to 15 by the end of 2026. - [Narrator] Walmart is also but with a twist. (machinery thudding) In the next episode, we'll visit one of Walmart's automated How is the country's its size and tech to gain more (gentle ethereal music)