What is tax? A tax is a compulsory contribution everything: the stuff we earn, the stuff we buy how governments raise revenue. They spend the money welfare, health, defence, education, infrastructure different groups of people. We tend to think of A proportional tax charges everyone the same also called a flat tax because the line is flat. harder. As your income increases your average tax tax lands on people with higher incomes. So as your might seem obvious but most people want to keep ways to do that: the nice way and the naughty way. you fully report your income and structure your completely legal and even encouraged. Nobody should pay more tax. Tax evasion can be as simple as not paying your income. It's illegal so don't do it. Taxes can also a taxpayer pays straight to the government and on to someone else. We'll see examples of both Accounting Stuff. I'm James and today I'll take This is an intro to tax for beginners, I won't are different in different places and they're please check with your local tax authority or seek We pay tax on the stuff we earn, the stuff we on the stuff we earn. The first tax that jumps tax or individual income tax is a direct tax on charged on your salary or wages, the profit earned investment income from interest and dividends. Most and it's usually a large source of revenue. The tax spent as the government sees fit. We can calculate income by your personal income tax rate. It seems increases as you earn more. Let me show you how. called Naboo. Naboo has a graduated tax system galactic credits you earn you pay nothing and income above 50,000 you pay 35%. Jar Jar is a cook 80,000 credits during a tax year. Let's work out fifteen thousand credits his tax rate is zero, so is 20% so he pays 7,000 credits and on his income eighty thousand minus fifty thousand is of that is ten thousand five hundred credits. So thousand plus ten thousand five hundred which is If we visualize this on a graph we can see that Jar Jar earns more his tax rate steps up. Jar Jar's of tax he pays. The effective tax rate that he We can work out Jar Jar's average tax rate by it by his total taxable income 17,500 divided 22 percent. This is much lower than his marginal pay on the stuff we earn? We also pay payroll salaries earned by individuals. It can be paid by deducted from your pay slip like personal income The tax money raised from payroll tax is These provide a safety net for those unable to Payroll tax is equal to gross wages or Naboo has a flat five percent payroll tax rate. year, but his gross wages were 60,000 credits. So 5% which is three thousand credits. If we look at flat tax. As Jar Jar's wages go up his effective up for debate. You could argue that payroll tax to earn more income from other sources like But individuals aren't the only ones who pay tax. to pay tax too. Company tax or corporation tax is a revenue less expenses and company tax payable is tax rate. The company tax rate on Naboo is 15%. the personal income tax rate to encourage economic communication devices. It's registered on Naboo and during the tax year. So their company tax payable credits. But wait there's more! We also have capital the profit realized when an investment is sold. tax when they sell a long-term asset for a higher shares, bonds or real estate. But it normally We can work out capital gains tax by multiplying Jar Jar bought 100 shares in Naboo Technologies a price has since risen to 100 credits so he decides capital gain is 10,000 minus 6,000. So that's 4,000 35% so Jar Jar's capital gains tax payable is 4,000 I know we're covering a fair amount here so I've on my tax basics cheat sheet. It's available buy and the proceeds help keep these videos free from what about the stuff you buy? Depending where you live, Sales tax is an indirect tax on the sale of It's a consumption tax, triggered by the customer and invoices in the US where it's a large source to the list price of an item multiplied by the raw materials to a droid manufacturer for 2,000 to build a house droid which it then sells credits. If the sales tax rate on Tatooine is business-to-business the scavenger doesn't charge the list price of 2,000 credits. But the second the droid manufacturer needs to charge sales tax. of 10,000 credits and multiplying it by the sales manufacturer collects 11,000 credits and pays the can see, sales tax is an indirect tax because born by the end consumer. The sales tax rate on a regressive tax. The theory goes something like of their income which means they spend a lower On the other hand, people with lower incomes spend that a lot of places exempt necessities from Things like food, water, rent and medication. Sales tax is popular outside of the US. Value-added tax and services at each stage of the production chain. can calculate VAT by taking the list price of tax rate. This can get a little confusing because break it down for you. Let's pretend that Tatooine still 10 percent. The scavenger sells raw materials them the list price plus VAT since value-added tax droid manufacturer turns the raw materials into farmer. They pay the list price plus VAT as well. are two kinds of value-added tax: input VAT and is payable to the government. And they pay input VAT payable to the government is equal to Output The Droid manufacturer pays the scavenger the list From the scavenger's point of view, this is But from the droid manufacturer's point of view, stay with me... When the droid manufacturer builds chain which allows them to charge more money. The credits plus 10% VAT of 1,000 credits. The moisture they're the final consumer in the production of view this is output VAT and they owe it to output VAT minus 200 of input VAT so 800 credits. 200 from the scavenger and 800 from the droid manufacturer. same way that sales tax is. But the difference paid once by the droid manufacturer on the final amongst businesses in the production chain. Sales pay on the stuff we buy. Excise tax is an indirect Usually these are bad things that the government cigarettes and CO2. For this reason it's sometimes of production and becomes baked into the sales value-added tax is applied on top. Excise tax by the excise tax rate per unit. The units can measurement. Another tax on specific things is a on specific products and services imported from Tariffs are trade barriers charged at the moment help domestic manufacturers by raising the prices tariff is equal to total units of a product Governments tax the stuff you earn and the stuff your house for example. Property tax is a direct tends to be charged by local governments to schools and libraries. Property tax is equal to the property tax rate. We can assess the value of similar properties or calculating its replacement sits on the Northern Dunes of Tatooine. If it has and the annual property tax rate on Tatooine is property tax. Is property tax progressive? Sort of. On likely to own property so they either don't pay But on the other hand, the wealth of low-to-middle in property and landlords can pass on their So perhaps property taxes are regressive... what do A wealth tax is a direct tax on the assets of threshold and multiply it by the wealth tax rate. minus their total liabilities. The stuff they own Tatooine is 0.5 percent how much wealth tax does things get tricky. Jabba has an enormous amount of He doesn't just own property. He owns private He also hires the very best tax experts to Since you made it this far, I have one quick bonus a direct tax on inheritance received. It's one of back to Roman times. When a person dies they pass tax when they receive them. We take inheritance the inheritance tax rate. Inheritance tax is high net worth, but there are often loopholes to or pass on gifts while you're still alive. You pay you buy and the stuff you own. Like I mentioned basics cheat sheet. The link's in the description. members you guys are the best and I appreciate