(suspenseful music) - Our galaxy is over a hundred A distance so vast that it Even humanities earliest hurtling through space would still only have washed over less than 1,000,000th of The cosmic speed limit, is so diminutive compared to a galaxy that any aspirations we might harbor for galactic exploration seem impossible, at least within human lifetimes. But humanity has long wondered, could there be a cheat code? Could there be a way to exceed Could we go faster than light? FTL. There is no other technology that I so keenly wish Since childhood, I've looked up at the stars and dreamt of one day reaching them. Of exploring the ocean of space, the zoo of worlds, the menagerie of life. It almost seems like a cruel cosmic joke that the universe be that we are able to look and yet are trapped here Fated to any other peer through the bars of our cosmic prison and dream. And so it's no surprise that human ingenuity against Einstein's cosmic speed limit. After all, we've never been so good To be clear though, we currently have no way of building or even conceiving of be it for travel or But there are threads that it is hoped one day might bear fruit. For example, we know that Einstein speed to travel through space, but that space itself For this reason, there are parts of the faster in the speed of light as the fabric of the cosmos itself expands in all directions. Could we one day learn and somehow use this The hypothetical Alcubierre drive is perhaps the most famous Inspired by Star Trek's, warp drive, Miguel Alcubierre, a solution within Einstein's that in principle, could allow FTL. By expanding space behind a bubble of space could at arbitrarily fast speeds. The idea has certainly faced such as requiring the enormous energy requirements and even obliterating the destination through the buildup of radiation Yet optimist might argue that none of these are merely engineering challenges. A more pressing problem is into the Alcubierre drive. In 2009, Finazzi showed that the warp drive bubble leads to exponentially on the inside of it. This isn't just a hazard to their crew, the exponential buildup It's important to remember that we don't have a good theory And Alcubierre drive is just using general relativity alone. These kinds of quantum concerns don't just plague warp drives. Wormholes, another has also been criticized due to these quantum effects Ultimately, we can't truly prove whether wormhole or Alcubierre until we have solved quantum gravity or built a working example of one. The other problem with is that there are multiple ideas out there such as tachyons, craznic optubes, quantum tunneling and entanglement. And each one of those has a diverse number of flavors proposed. For example, the Alcubierre metric has to reduce the energy And of course, physicists still surely new varieties in the future. As a result, it seems somewhat hopeless that we'll ever be able to completely exclude FTL as a possibility. On the one hand, our hearts might rejoice in that because it means that hope persists and the dream will always be alive. But on the other hand, our minds complain because after all this is science and we want definitive not eternal maybes that will So is there anything that with existing knowledge? Well, it turns out, yes. Despite the fact that of quantum gravity, despite the fact that there and ideas about FTL systems, there is a definitive statement that we can make about all FTL systems. They all allow for causality When you hear that FDL you might think about sci-fi portrayals of accelerating past the speed of light, but actually, the causality and occurs even with FTL The explanation is a little challenging so we're gonna break it down and use diagrams to help us understand it. It's worth spending a because the consequences Let's start by drawing a line representing one dimension of space along and a line representing time We now have a space time To get acquainted with this setup, let's consider a distant star like Vega. This green square represents Vega at a certain point in space. In other words, its location but also at a certain point in time. Let's consider that Vega is stationary in this frame of reference so that as we move through time, it traces out this line. Note how it has the same This line is what we would And we don't have to limit we can for example, put the Earth on the Earth isn't moving much compared to Vega, so let's just assume it's and thus has a parallel world line. Since we're ultimately interested in speed when it comes to FTL, let's now familiarize ourselves with what speed looks Because we are working in we don't feel ourselves moving, and thus in this frame, we simply move parallel to the time axis. So such world lines correspond In contrast, instantaneous travel, which is the most extreme FTL possible, would go from the Earth to Vega Thus it would appear as this pink line parallel to the space axis. Between those two extremes, we have traveling at the speed of light, given this yellow line. In a Minkowski diagram like this, light always travels at 45 And technically it's called a &quot;null line&quot;. Removing Vega for the moment, we first note that we are of course free to travel both forwards However, if the speed of light then any path below the are impossible to achieve. These would require FTL systems. On the other hand, lines above the null are such as this stationary world A slower than light or STL ship, would travel at some angle between that of a null and a Okay, congratulations. You've mastered the basics but now let's go a little bit deeper. And note some relationships and Stripping down this diagram, consider the Earth sat And again, working in From Earth's perspective, we don't feel like we're moving. That's relativity for you. So as time progresses, our location in space is always the same forming this world line. Crucially, that's the In other words, the world line defines the time axis as perceived by those following it. This is important because screws around with time. But here, there's a clear definition of where the perceived time axis lives. Now adding the null line back on, we can note the relationship is really just a flip of the So again, this provides a useful rule for orienting ourselves later when we'll have to deal with Okay, so we are finally ready to start imagining FTL systems on here. Let's put Vega back on the diagram as a distant destination. Consider that at some but one closer to the Earth, a supernova goes off. We'll call it Supernova X. The radiation from the supernova travels at the speed of light and thus follows a null line. Following this path, we can see the Earth sees marked by these stars. Now imagine that Earth has As soon as Earth sees X, we decide to send a warning to Vega. Recall that FTL lines fall So we can see that Vega would learn of X before it actually sees it. Mission accomplished. Now, remember I said earlier, the whole problem with FTL So let's look the order of events here to see if everything makes sense. For this, we need to work through time and track this sequence that occurs. We can do this by taking A simultaneous moment and from bottom to top noting the And remember, I'm in Earth's reference frame here, so the time slices here are although, this is also So sliding at the page, we can see that the first event is that Supernova X occurs. Sliding further up, we can see that the next event is that Earth sees X and warns Vega. Going further. Third, we see that Vega receives Finally, we see that Vega sees X. Looking at the order, this seems sensible. Cause proceeds effect. For example, Supernova X happens and then Earth sees X. Similarly, Earth warns Vega then Vega receives the warning. Okay. So in if you stopped the please don't, you would that FTL travel is fine. It doesn't break causality. Cause precedes effects, there's nothing to worry about. Well that's because in order to unveil the causality breaking power of FTL, we have to add another We have to add a slower than light, STL, relativistic ship here. Because doing so leads to Okay. So coming back to our diagram, we currently have no STL ships on here. Just Earth, Vega, X. And the FTL message is shown in pink. STL ships have to follow as shown here in red. Now remember our rules from before, the world line defines the time axis as perceived by those following it. So the time axis as perceived actually lives along that red line. It's not the same as the The distortion of time is one of those mind bending consequences which our journey to the explores in much more depth. Now remember rule number two, that space axis flips the So as perceived by the crew, their space axis actually lives here. This is a remarkable that the speed of light is Time and space bend to in all frames of reference. Recall before, that we with sliding time slices. Lines of simultaneous moments. And record that these slices must be parallel to the space axis. So if we want to draw these time slices from the cruise perspective, they must be parallel to the red dash line sliding from the bottom right So coming back to the order of events, look, we already know what the Earthlings and the Vegans think happen, but what did the crew of the ship think? Using our sliding time slice, we can see that the first event in time, as perceived by the ship's crew, is that Vega receives the warning message from Earth about X. Going further, the second event is that Third, we see the Earth sees X, and fourth and final, the Vegans see X. Looking at this order, we can immediately see Vega received the warning message about X before Earth even sent it. How is that possible? Cause transpired after the effect. Causality is broken. At this point you might wonder, maybe the problem isn't so much with FTL but rather with the theory What happens if we take Because if causality violation then we would know that it's it's relativity. So let's repeat the experiment, but now I've remove that FTL message. Sliding our time slice along, we see that the first Next, the second event And finally, the third So the sequence makes perfect sense now. No causality violation. Indeed we get the same order as that which the Earthlings So the causality violation of before isn't a problem with relativity, it's a problem of FTL itself. Now you might say, &quot;So what?&quot; Does this disagreement truly matter? Isn't this just an academic question, one with no real world consequences? Well, I'm afraid not. Causality violation here is profound and it could actually allow the crew to potentially break the universe. To see this, let's modify the scenario so that the crew are no but can actually intervene. Let's modify the FTL Instead of being sent to Vega, it is intercepted by the So they would receive the message here. After receiving the message, they decide to send a reply back to Earth using an FTL transmitter that For a bit of perverse fun, let's imagine that they saying, &quot;Turn off FTL transmitter.&quot; Okay. But where does this reply live As I lead, it would follow a world line like this. Remember that our entire diagram is cast in Earth's frame of reference, and in this frame, the reply message seems to be traveling backwards through time. And now we see the problem. The reply is received back on Earth before the message was ever sent. So Earth receives a message saying, &quot;Turn off their transmitter.&quot;, and so they don't then send But if they never send out that message, then the ship will never receive it and thus, it will never reply. And thus Earth should not et cetera, et cetera. Like killing our grandfather we have set up now a grandfather paradox. Now you might be wondering, perhaps there's something wrong with the lines that I drew here. The diagram is after all getting pretty complicated at this point. To simplify things and let's imagine that our FTL messages are not just faster than light, but they're instantaneous. Modifying, this means that the original Earth message must be parallel to the space axis because no time transpires. And similarly, the reply must now be parallel to the STL ship's space And we can see that leads to exactly the same result all by one that's even more extreme. So the causality violation isn't some mere academic issue here, it opens the door to And remember that we didn't assume any particular FTL system here. This applies to them all. Whenever you have an FTL system, you also have a time travel machine. A machine capable of In one of my personal favorites, we tackled time travel in a previous video along with the paradoxes that it elicits. Physicists despise problems because they undermine of our universe and no good It was the late Stephen Hawking who posed the most accepted way out. Put simply, time paradoxes Hawking's famous chronology suggests that the laws in such a way that time Whenever you try, some physical effect will prevent you from achieving that goal. What might this look like Such as for example, the Alcubierre drive that How is it that Hawking is Well, it turns out that in that case, Hawking himself may have really done so in his previous work. Because recall that one of the problems with the Alcubierre drive is that they generate inside the bubble. What kind of radiation? Well, it's Hawking radiation. That radiation in fact and rapidly destabilizes the bubble. Crucially, Hawking radiation and record that a unified and gravity so far alludes us. So even though we don't truly understand how quantum effects and Hawking's chronology protection conjecture essentially argues that it's that the answer lies. That one day we will that neatly explains why can never happen. And thus why FTL systems I promised you something and now we have it. Unfettered use of FTL and cause paradoxes. Hawking predicts that such and so by that logic, does that mean that FTL Not quite. One way that we might and satisfy Hawking, is to consider that, &quot;Hey FTL is possible, it's just that there are After all, when we removed the STL ship there were no violations of causality or even more subtly just demanding that the ship never intervenes leads to no paradoxes. Perhaps FTL systems are possible but somehow specific like reply to that original FTL message, are forbidden. This sounds a little contrived, but it provides at least a The other option is just to reject Hawking's conjecture outright to suppose that paradoxes are allowed and deal with the enormously of making sense of the As hard as a pill as it is to swallow, we have to accept that FTL systems have fundamental problems here that go beyond engineering or energetics. But remember, exploration of the galaxy is it just takes a lot longer. It would mean that our are not about personal gain but rather are performed in and those beyond that. That as individuals, we would act selflessly and as a species in unified common goal. Perhaps then in the end, no FTL is a blessing in disguise, because it might compel for the future for something So until next time, stay thoughtful and stay curious. (Upbeat music) Hey, thank you so much watching everybody. If you like our stuff, be sure to do all the YouTube stuff. Like, share, subscribe, comment. And if you really wanna help us out, you can click the link up above, where you can become a at Columbia University. Just like our latest two donors, I wanna thank Dhruv Thank you so much for your support. So thanks again, everybody and have a cosmically