- Me and Pete just hanging out. Look at that face. (upbeat music) Hi, I'm Liam Payne and and I am about to meet a lot of puppies. Look at you! Hello! Oh, you're lovely, aren't you? Hello, come here you. You're a rascal. You're gonna be the rascal of the group and you also want to join in. (laughing) This one really likes me. I've got an attachment here. All right then, let's do some questions. I think I would because we do really And I would say that I to be right here with these puppies because this is just There's talk of maybe Maybe I'm gonna collaborate But I can't tell you who it is yet but she is an artist. It's very open, isn't it? Love the question bowl. Do you wanna pick me a question? What a question to follow I would collaborate with Nicky My favorite part about was when we were younger, we used to spend a lot of time together on the tour bus. And when we did that first American tour, we had a really tiny small bus and it was just a lot of and it was like, I don't know. That was the time when we got to know each other best I No, I'm not at all. I think honestly he's really and I know that Harry's And I wanted to congratulate the man. It's a massive moment, like action film, like how amazing, super cool. I haven't seen it yet but a little event with my and going down and all of 'cause I wanna make sure I wanna go, I haven't and I'd like to go to the cinema. You haven't said hello The last text message I sent to one of my friends 'cause I was doing some silly videos on Instagram. That was long and boring and I thought it was gonna be up right and exciting. You make sure you just You're just quite chill. What's your deal, Pete? You're the naughty one of the bunch. Come here, you. Come on. Yes I think we will reunite I'm sure, we have to. I mean we've got an album that and I wanna write some more The songwriting process 'cause you have to look a lot inside yourself for inspiration. It was different when I because you have to have so in a way, it's kinda easier as well but it's hard because, it's very very, it just relies on you I guess. Which is nice and there's that I've done on that that I do my other writers great writers in the with some great people like and obviously Zedd at the so I've been really lucky with the people I got to work with. Yes and no. There's loads of different so I still can't believe You're so tamed. Yeah, and there's some ballads, there's some hip hop songs, So I think there's a really varied mix of different things that we have. I don't know how I'm ever gonna separate from you ever again; look at your eyes. My go-to karaoke song would be I know when that hotline bling Hey, that can only mean one thing (laughing) There's actually a name for this and it's a long something or other phobia that they call it; I'm not sure. But I'm no longer afraid of spoons. My favorite songs. That was quick. I think I'd like to go in and play arenas. I love a big stage and I actually measured it one and we used to do like every times on, so we're a big stage so I don't know I do like the smaller venues as well. It's nice and intimate but I love to do really big shows and I for you guys with loads of Oh, I never thought about that. I would wake up at around nine. Go to the gym for a little bit, I'd sit and watch, I'd have the new series of Peaky Blinders out I'm having to wait for ages. I would have an in and out burger 'cause they are the And that would be quite the perfect day. Oh, you're back again. Hello. My favorite memory was when we first did Madison Square Gardens. We popped out the floor Oh. Where are you going? We popped out the floor and it was just the most amazing feeling in Madison Square Gardens and our album, we just broke the record on the American charts so that was a real fond memory of mine. How are we doing Pete? What's hanging? I would say having my missus eye on me is always a nice thing so I like to know that she's always got her eye on me and I've always got my I would say Pete at this moment in time. He's just fulfilling life for me. I want to say thank you to but I just wanted to let everybody know that all these puppies are adoptable from the North Shore so please, if you have a good home, and you want a nice go and get him. Look at Pete. Oh my God. Pete man, you're killing me.