Alright, conclusion of the German test report: to their German counterparts. Especially the Spitfire has poor roll and The weapon placements on the wing have the Well, that's incredibly on brand for the Germans. Let's get into it How do we rate an aircraft? Convention dictates that we compare the broad While that is a clean approach, there are trump approach is devoid of context and it Luftwaffe thought about the Spitfire. Instead, what I will do is put the lens squarely First, I will show you data from a German in the German Military Archives. Then, I want to talk about the Luftwaffe pilots, these are sometimes very different. Joining me for this part are also two accomplished air crews in the past, James Holland and Dr. of insights to draw upon. Big thank you here to all the Patreons and can visit archives and publish this research Supporters have early access to videos, a channel. If you are interested, check out the support And if you are watching this before Aug. 9, for our filming trip to the US, bringing you Let's start with a technical evaluation The first is an evaluation of the Spitfire I and II. It is the only file I know that provides a Then we have a file giving a comparison between Jens Wehner for supplying me this file as archive. As we get into it, quick disclaimer &gt;&lt; and For performance, the German test states that A shallow climb with speeds of 280-300 kph This is because the 109 is equipped with variable-pitch The Spitfire is equipped with a constant-speed/pitch? propeller which leads to a loss in performance will overraise RPMs and the high-pitch setting equally to a loss in performance. The 109 is superior in roll at higher speeds, the Spitfire to be unstable in the yaw axis. The test then recommends the following: fight with the enemy fighters, as they have An attack on the enemy and disengagement can performance. During a sudden dive, the carburettor of the negative g-acceleration. This measure is equally recommended. And that leads to the conclusion I read out at Moving on to the second report: recon Spitfire Mk. I that crash landed and burned up in the south was in overall good condition from Autumn This over one-hundred page report has highly terms of direct comparisons or statements What I have found is this: operational use, the Spitfire demonstrates and flight characteristics. For our aircraft, it is an enemy that is to Pilots, who flew the English fighter, negatively its manoeuvrability. Take-off and landing do not present any issues, recorded. Now this is data we can use but for the reasons not the end-all-be-all. So now lets really home in on what the pilots Sometimes, there is a tendency to take the it was a definitive, universally applicable The whole thing with Galland joking or annoying to mind -I had to bring it up at some point Basically, a statement of a single pilot is it is based on the perception of that pilot. If it was a bad pilot, then he may rate the If it was a skilled pilot or an Ace, he may the fact that the average pilot won't be So what were should be looking for is asking overall average. To demonstrate this, here is data from a German At the start of the war, some of the kill to rate the enemy aircraft in terms of speed, From six cases, the Spitfire was rated the Speed: It was rated equal in speed five times So far so good, there appears to be an overall Why such pilot accounts are tricky however reports on the Hurricane. Speed: Speed is rated inferior in six cases, Manoeuvrability: Was rated superior in seven Talking about pilots and Aces, let me introduce flew a Spitfire MkI during the Battle of Britain. Before he was shot down in September 1940, 109s, making him one of the leading aces of His plane X4009 was also recently restored of it. That's where REC watches comes in. REC specializes in unique and limited number of restoration projects. It's a fantastic concept, as every watch aluminium sheeting from the aircraft and it This is a premium product, not only will you of a Spitfire that shot down 109s, but you'll restoration. The X4009 collection is currently in pre-order number remain. The watches are available in three editions, it comes with free worldwide shipping, a 36 reason want to return it, they do offer 30 Secure yourself that 15% pre-order discount below. We are starting so see a clearer picture in To talk more about the impressions of German first published this data in his book: If you look at the perception of the German there was a very diverse perception. Often the pilot's performance is included Spitfire was flown very well then maybe the as a very superior plane". Spitfire was seen, in general, as similarity Maybe some pilot said it was not so fast, a little bit faster". So this was not the decisive. Secondly of course they all noted more or I would say if you want to look at an important able to turn better. Most Luftwaffe Pilots recognized this but If you look at the fighter aces of the Luftwaffe Aces that thought: maybe the Spitfire was Spitfire every time because they had the superior in turns then the performance of the airplane, as a decisive one. There was one Luftwaffe fighter pilot, who that he was meeting a single Spitfire over wing - meaning "I want to turn" and of want to turn with the Spitfire" so there the better turning performance of the Spitfire. In general, the performance of the Spitfire of Britain was not as decisive as the pilot combat. This one major reason why we won't find that the Spitfire. Another thing I want to add, another anecdote, with his comrades for England and a single - who was a leading fighter ace at this Spitfire was closing and they didn't warn Bf 109 of Hahn. Just to make a joke out of it. And then suddenly they said "oh there is and the Spitfire had no chance in following. There you see, maybe it was not always the this. It really depend on the pilots and so on. I also spoke with James Holland who wrote German aircrews in the past. I think the Luftwaffe fighter pilots respected, hugely - I mean it was incredibly fast, highly It wasn't the equal of the Messerschmitt 109 that you need to do in air-to-air combat: massive punch when you're in the combat zone. The Spitfire with its 8 machine guns with you know that was an Achilles heel. But it was incredibly maneuverable so overall I think they considered it more maneuverable actual fact a 109 E could outturn a Spitfire You know you go to a certain certain speed, you can actually outturn a Spitfire but you such a thing. For the most part the Spitfire was considered you know...you're talking about two aircraft in combat. It's down to pilot skill and the circumstances If your enemy has got height and the sun behind I do remember talking to Hans-Ekkehard Bob, the war and not just the Eastern Front but He was incredibly respectful but he recognized Again it's not just the plane, it's the skill also pretty useful plane, I mean it was a gun just like the Spitfire, you can take a is less Speed and Agility and more its respective You could only get to about 15 000 feet - 4 can do 5000 meters. That's just not good enough and that's why which are operating at lower heights while fighters. Is it true that the British pilots were more always want to transition to the Spitfire Yeah I think so. I mean, you know, those people who flew the but most people wanted a Spitfire because can climb faster. Nowadays the Spitfires is, let's say the darling the war in itself, was that already the case reputation or did that come after the war was already the darling of the RAF. I mean when you're looking at all the posters of it, is always Spitfires. I mean people were proud of the Hurricane beast that it was. the thing about the Spitfire is, when it came There was nothing about it that had been seen Every aspect of it was new and sleek and feline the Hurricane you can see the lineage of earlier the fuselage and the tail plane, they are That means it's much easier to produce in create new machine tools to build it but when on the ground, a civilian on the ground and can you not be dazzled by its sheer beauty Please do also show your appreciation to expert word spoken is a word well received. Now the question really goes to all of you, how do you think we should weigh these statements sort of discussion. I look forward to seeing what you have to REC watches for sponsoring the video if you the Battle of Britain and a fantastic timepiece As always big thank you also to all the patrons you go out there have a great day and see