Thanks to Linode for You can check them out at linode.com/scishow and that link will give you a $100 So, say you were getting sick. Like, I hope that you're thriving right now, and you went to the doctor for some medicine. You'd hope that the medicine your and responsibly by scientists studying And you'd be right. Mostly. Probably. Certainly, by the time a drug gets to But sometimes, at the just-starting-out treatments aren't actually testing them Completely by accident, they are that have become contaminated. And when other researchers cite that it becomes entrenched. And this is happening all the time. How could so many researchers Well let's explore the answer [ INTRO] Human cell lines are groups of human indefinitely and survive outside of a human body. Think of like every stock video of a researcher peering intently at a Petri dish of pink stuff. There's probably one on the screen right now. This is what scientists call The first human cell line was created in 1951, from cervical cancer cells taken These cells were taken without her consent, is outside the scope of this video, that we will link to down in the description. Now typically, cells only survive for But the cells from Ms. Lacks' The cells retrieved from and very easy to grow, making them The doctors found that by they could keep the cell line meaning they had a virtually infinite Despite being created over 70 years ago, and it's been central to many Polio vaccines, IVF, our understanding just to name a few. The knowledge gained from deriving HeLa cells allowed scientists to develop more cell lines. With those, they could closely study understand gene functions, create In modern labs, cell lines because they provide an unparalleled way for us to test things like medicines on And having multiple kinds of cell lines, derived from multiple kinds of choose the one that's most relevant Cell lines may or may not be but they're derived from a specific At least, enough to help So if you're studying insulin you probably want pancreatic cells, for example. Using cell lines also means that you in humans or animals right off the bat. Since the cells are alive and doing cell your experiments quickly and easily without That might, for example, get that you can then test in animals and, And it's not just drug development. Every detailed little "how does molecule that molecular biologists do probably so they're a huge part of how we that's smaller than a bacterium. Cell lines are even cost-effective which is always a plus when you're trying to make your research budget go as far as possible. Researchers can make their own cell lines, or they can buy them from other private So cell lines are ridiculously useful. It is not too bold to say that biological research as we know it in the 21st century But there is a problem. One that makes cell line research really slowing advances in the field. Contamination. There are two types of cell culture contamination. The first is by chemical contaminants; things like detergents, toxins, The second is biological. When they're inside our body, cells to protect them from things like But isolated in a little dish, infection damaging them and ruining the whole experiment. Though it is a pretty common hurdle, good, sterile lab technique can However, the biggest, most problematic Not the ones that researchers are trying to grow, but other cells from other cell and replace the cells researchers This is not a new problem. Scientists first noticed Researchers began to note that many cell from hamsters to ducks, were not. Instead, they were all And it did not stop then. HeLa is actually a big culprit but it's far from the only cell line that likes to set up shop where it's not supposed to. When a contaminating cell by hitching a ride on a glove, from airborne than the intended cell culture, it can That's just because of how things grow. If Cell 1 needs less time to divide than and double again and again faster it crowds out the competition. And this isn't the sort of thing that's Animal cells are typically all not really an instant visual give-away Before you know it, you're on a cervical cancer cell line. Those are different kinds of cells, Cervical cells were never going to make insulin, though cancer cells admittedly Even so, you're barking up the wrong tree. This is not a rare, isolated issue. It's global, and it's persistent. Research has been conducted to try this issue is, and how much probably completely invalidated by contamination. Some researchers estimate that as many as 18 to 36% of cell lines are contaminated. That is hundreds of millions of Research from 2002 found which is meant to be a cell line was actually REH, a cell line derived This means that WSU-CLL is mislabeled, and doesn't reflect what the name says it is. So researchers who think they're are actually getting a different one. That might seem like a small difference, Different cancers are driven at the so if you want to find those genes you need the right cancer model. Of course, once this oversight was identified, every scientist everywhere and moved to an actual model of Except no they didn't. Some organizations, like The International or ICLAC, are on the case, promoting ICLAC followed up on this with a case study, and found that of 27 articles using seemingly unaware that the And those 24 articles were And those studies were cited by other meaning studies using the wrong cell line Same for studies using the other 535 contaminated cell lines already identified by ICLAC. Opinions among scientists vary about but most will at least raise an eyebrow. And researchers are rarely are the ones they think they are. Only some journals, like Nature, ask authors to confirm they've checked the And that doesn't really do much for the The findings coming from these potentially Clinical trials proceed from evidence A lot of early clinical trials end in failure, so it makes sense to build them Otherwise, you risk sending whole on wild goose chases for months on end, not to mention the patients who to volunteer in these studies. A great example of this is INT 407, a cell line originally derived This cell line is used by many to test treatments and make observations, since Crohn's affects the intestines, so Except it's not intestinal cells anymore. That cell line has been taken over by Vendors for INT 407 specifically is now indistinguishable from HeLa. It's no secret. Now that's not to say that researchers when it comes to Crohn's and we couldn't find any said they failed because But a 2021 meta-analysis also didn't as cervical cancer, and hundreds And maybe it's just me, but that doesn't seem like the way we should be studying intestines! So now you see this problem and Where do we go from here? Is all cell line research useless and doomed? No. Of course not. This problem is frustrating, but that can help researchers verify The first vital precaution get into good habits when handling cells. That means handling just one cell line at a time, labeling each cell culture with the like the date it was last used, and No double dipping with different discarding used pipettes properly, 70% alcohol before and after But even with all the caution in the And since it's not typically easy to We need to get more CSI. That's where DNA analysis, STR, or Short Tandem Repeat, sequencing regions of DNA called, you These are strings of repeated DNA bases. They make up around 3% of the human genome. These regions are so variable that they So scientists can use the number of Once the sample has been sequenced, particular repeats can be compared If the number of repeats in your sample matches those listed against your intended That means that the cells in match with the cell type All is well. At least for now. Contamination can happen fast, especially in a lab that so regular retests are recommended. And this might not work for some older cell lines, since a lot of the original samples weren't kept. Still, it's a good way to make sure that you're doing the research you think you're doing. Despite how easy it is to test, though, Perhaps due to lack of funds, lack since many journals won't verify But the cool thing about science you can fix it with more science. Admittedly, organizations like a little more proactive; just because doesn't mean you don't have to. But it's also pretty cool that the more we learn about how to use like knowing there's a stretch of DNA that can tell you if you're doing the right experiment. That helps us keep science reproducible, which is key to making sure that correct and also to making sure that And if we can do that with cell such massive wins for the medical and Thanks to Linode for supporting and thanks to the SciShow team for making it! Linode is a cloud computing some of the best stuff on the internet, And Linode cloud computing from data centers across the physical world. Because one of the best things about the You can access it from all over the place! So Linode has strategically placed data centers that get them closer to where you use the cloud. They're already a cloud computing powerhouse, but they're still working to improve by adding at least a dozen more To get going with those brand new servers, you can click the link in the description for a $100 60-day credit on a new Linode account. Thanks to Linode, thanks to all the and thanks to you for watching. [ OUTRO]