Hello dear friends, I am glad to welcome you to my channel today in this video I am preparing an unforgettably delicious "Nezhenka" cake, beloved by millions. I will cook it with sour cream, as I know. From my childhood, the simplest but most delicious recipe is prepared even without any baking dishes on a regular baking sheet we will prepare it, it turns out to be a mountain of cakes that are eaten instantly without exaggeration. So I will cook a large portion. Therefore, I take here five medium-sized eggs a pinch of salt two bags of vanilla sugar 16 g And I beat it all for about 1 minute until it looks like beer foam And now, in portions, I add 300 g of sugar, the amount of sugar here can be reduced. Well, by 30 g more, I don't recommend reducing it here, otherwise the taste will be so bland, all this I'm whipping now for about three or four minutes, no longer whipping longer, there's no point in the sugar then it will disperse when we add sour cream. such a whitened mass should turn out fluffy and this is normal, you can whip it here, in principle, even without a mixer, I add 400 g to it. Two of these packages of sour cream, my sour cream is fatty, in this case 30% fat content, room temperature must be sour cream, all this is just mixing nothing here for a long time beat the sour cream You can use any fat content, but I like it to be as fat as possible, then the taste of the cakes turns out to be creamy. I'm leaving aside for now. Here I have 450 g of flour, add 15 g of baking powder and just sift it all with a regular mixer. Here you can I immediately answer to make a chocolate version by replacing 30 g of flour with 30 g of cocoa powder. It's all at your discretion. I just mixed it all and it turned out. This is my homogeneous glossy mass, so this is correct. So this should be a baking sheet. Here I lined it with a regular siliconized baking tray. I'll bake it in Preheated oven at a temperature of 180deg for literally 20 minutes, this is how the Korzh is baked in my oven. You look at your oven, all ovens are different on the middle level in the top-bottom mode without convection literally 20 minutes Well level this whole mass so that there are no lumps because that in one place there may be an accumulation of dough and in another there will be a hole like this. Therefore, it is better to do all this, of course, either with a knife if you don't have a spatula, but you need to level it right away, I say if you need a small portion half the size of all the products, take a baking sheet accordingly 20 by 155 cm, take the oven while baking, do not open 20 minutes, it took me the cake has already baked a beautiful fluffy cake, I check it for you with a stick, it comes out dry and clean, I don't wait for anything here as soon as I can touch it, I release the cake from the mold, a glass here for you I'm showing that you can cut out 6 estimates with a glass, here I take it, but in my opinion, the cakes you get are quite large enough if it's for a children's party. This might be a bit much for a child, so I just showed you. As an example, I'll use this kind of cutting 4.5 cm here. I have and 4 cm glasses But it's inconvenient to take them out then use a die cutter, well, if you don't have one, then someone can make a glass. I know they even make these cakes square and triangular in order to save as much space here as possible so that there are as few crumbs as possible, but we will need crumbs here and we will need a lot of them here, so the round shape I think is very good, I cut it out. How many times have I succeeded in this, it keeps well behind this dough from the baking paper, this Korzh is here I got 46 pieces, it would be possible to make these cuttings closer to each other here then I would have about 50 pieces of trimmings. Be sure to fold everything literally that much I will remove and chop everything else up each piece. I cut the sour cream dough into two layers, we know this from childhood, it crumbles very much, this is normal for it. I use the same baking sheet here. I baked it here, I didn't even wash it, I just don't even see the point in it here Because now it will also be all in crumbs and while I'm preparing the cream 250 g softened 3 dashes 4 minutes until white and fluffy this is the butter I got all the ingredients at room temperature I have 390 g of condensed milk. Here you can take 380 g of condensed milk like this in portions. Now I add it to the oil and beat it here. attention, if you have very soft butter, the cream will be liquid. Therefore, you don't need to bring it to the same fluidity state for this cream, this is very important. Exactly in cream with condensed milk, it seems that it couldn't be simpler. But many people make mistakes if you don't have it beat and it will be constantly like this liquid literally at the 5th dash for 10 minutes Put it in the refrigerator and beat further I have a wonderful consistency here, everything is whipped and look the cream begins to thicken and such a dense glossy beautiful mass is formed, it just needs to be beaten further when I have all the mass this is such a beautiful one from which you can already plant flowers or make some patterns. I add another 200 g of room temperature sour cream. In no case is it too cold at first, 100 g of sour cream and no longer for seconds, otherwise the cream will begin to separate and at room temperature all products are simply combined you can't beat it for 10 seconds, you can beat it in a bag as you like, if you don't even have a chopper, it's okay, that is, this is a recipe from childhood, then there were no special devices, you did it all just with your hands, take a bowl for larger crumbs so that it's convenient for you to work there with your hands later just apply the cream from a pastry bag here But if you don't have a pastry bag, you can, as a last resort, apply this cream to the cakes with a knife instead of a pastry bag, you can also take a bag for freezing food from the pastry bag, literally cut off 5 mm of small cakes so that a lot of cream is not spent on the top For the cake, I apply a very small layer, literally thin like this, and this is how I make all the cakes now. This is the cake made with sour cream, this option is because there are many and biscuit options are very different, and hedgehogs call them what they are, right down to the squirrel, what's their name just don't call it You can add nuts and chocolate, whatever you want, boil any fruit filling inside, that is, whatever you like, I'm showing the basic classic version, so to speak, this cake holds its shape perfectly, it can be used in addition to a muffin for a cupcake or instead an alternative to Muffin for every children's party and not only for children's; it's a budget option and children really like it; it can be easily transported; now I'll show you how much cream I have left. That is, there's enough cream and a little bit left. I'll then make a few cake pops from the remaining crumbs. and from this cream, now the important point is that before you roll them in crumbs, you don't need to put them in the refrigerator, otherwise the crumbs won't stick right away, roll them in crumbs while the cake is being prepared, you can prepare the cream. I'm showing you all this in sequence here. the work to make it more clear in the video, but you can save time and while the cake is baking, immediately make the cream and here if someone helps you sprinkle these cakes, one let's say Slava with cream, the other sprinkles the work very quickly. Of course, you can use any cream from mine playlist cream recipes Please go through and look at the cakes, they are incredibly delicious, there is no need to advertise them. Many people know them from childhood. And just like that, 46 cakes. I got 4.5 cm in diameter. The crumb that I had left over, I combined it with the remaining cream, made several cakes. pops and here is the result of my work: the most delicious, delicate cakes are eaten instantly for a children's party. You can also pour chocolate or glaze on top and, until it hardens, sprinkle with multi-colored sugar sprinkles so that they are more elegant and I hope that the video was useful and informative, subscribe to my channel like and write comments I wish you all great success and see you in new videos