It has been 6 months since I bought a Meta in a similar way to the Quest 2, there's still One of the biggest takeaways I've had after 6 of a product it is compared to the Quest 2. It's upgraded materials for the facial interface, and though it's actually slightly heavier at grams. Though you'd never know it because One of the standout features of the Quest screens are not only higher resolution but they also feature an entirely new pancake an upgrade these lenses actually are. They just you don't have to line up your eyes with this tiny One of the big changes Quest 3 brought to Meta's and yes, it is good enough now that you look at your smartwatch, or even look at a Quest headset. The full-color pass-through makes and certainly, it's easier to move around your black and white-looking infrared image out of the the way virtual boundaries are handled. Its boundaries. It'll automatically draw a suggested all without needing to set up the ground Some other improvements I've appreciated sound. While it doesn't sound amazing, it does less distortion. I also like that the glasses facial interface compared to the removable one on think that Meta did a really good job slimming ring and upgrading their haptics. However, for I did initially experience tracking accuracy but more recently when I retested this, all of these hardware improvements together, it meaning that the company fixed most of the a pretty substantial business and ecosystem especially when you look at the software experiences to try out. Unfortunately, most games so the only way to try them is to actually have a pretty decent return policy. You can as long as you haven't engaged with the launched a Quest Plus subscription along with you two handpicked titles every month plus a helping you try more experiences with your Quest Speaking of games, here are some of the ones &quot;Vader Immortal&quot; continues to be a highlight. It where I really got how powerful this medium can be games. They feel more real than when playing a or how short characters really are. Darth Vader standout experience. It presents you with a your little Lego brick character to explore augmented reality games I've experienced and is experiences have been &quot;Nano,&quot; where you're shrunk through people's bodies and investigate a bit about how cells work. One of my favorite a puzzle-solving game in which you play a spy are always multiple ways to solve the puzzle but has particularly been fun to play at parties a TV using Google's Chromecast. You can cast your AirPlay the iPhone screen to a TV, but it Now, aside from the improved optics and displays, improved performance Meta gave it. The Quest 3 chip which in games like &quot;Red Matter 2&quot; really see way more reflections and details, and it improved the software experience of the Quest regular software updates. These updates not only enhancements like the recent pass-through video around windows in your environment, and its hand enlarge the size of content screens more easily. headset to look at a bunch of virtual 2D screens on improves. This is something where I think it versus how useful it is in real life. The Quest which is a viewing experience made specifically a few videos to choose from, but so far I Apple's immersive video format. Though to be something that's going to keep you coming back to Quest 3 has the screen door effect where you can why I really wouldn't recommend watching TV shows virtual desktops. You can connect your computer to app available for Mac and PC which allows you which overall works pretty well. I can see from my Mac in Horizon Workrooms, which Now before we get to some other updates word from this video's sponsor, Uplift Desk. and I can't imagine working without one. The like easy height adjustment, and I love the to four different height settings. My Uplift Desk accommodate all of the tech I need to be able and it's backed by a 15-year warranty, plus Because Uplift Desk offers a wide range of for everyone. You can customize the desktop and Uplift Desk offers one of the widest variety from under-desk storage for your laptop to power stations, a hammock you can hang With its robust features, customizations, truly elevates your workspace experience. No perfect desk waiting for you at UpliftDesk.com. the description below and find the desk that's that link helps support 6 Months Later, and A few other updates Meta made over the which will reenter the display wherever you're videos from an iPhone 15 Pro or Pro Max on the good on Quest. As I said in my first video on of promise but there's still a long way to go. panoramic photos from an iPhone on the Quest 3. using the Vision Pro for the first time, so I'm Now besides games, there are other experiences like Supernatural or Fit XR, which have rate up as well as do different and listen to different music. It basically personally have tried both but didn't find workouts on my TV because I've mainly been The last big advantage of the Quest 3 and to their devices and ecosystem. Meta is taking a to Apple's closed ecosystem model, and Meta's Meta announced they're opening up their to other hardware partners like Lenovo, up the Quest Store to Steam and Xbox Game Pass. experiences that you can play on Quest as well as choose from. And today you can already sideload and use Steam Link to connect to your gaming PC That's all the good stuff with the Quest 3, but this headset at times can still feel glitchy. When mode, sometimes that window can kind of slightly The same thing happens if you have some virtual some stuttering which can lead to motion sickness. headset like this, especially with experiences view but you yourself physically are not moving. tell you how comfortable a game or experience Another discomfort you'll want to watch out for I've just noticed when you put one of these on have a tendency to blink less, and I especially issue I've had with this headset over the past constantly disconnect from Wi-Fi. I'll hard things but then I'll run into the same issue all that it's the same router I used with the Quest 2 likely an issue with the Quest 3 and others big downside with a Quest is how to authenticate scanner or fingerprint sensor on the top for a stuck using a password unlock which I find to this feature off entirely. Now the last downside cutting-edge piece of hardware, I'd like Meta Now let's talk recommendations. When you combine Meta's more open operating model, the Quest But are there a sufficient amount of good games the Quest 3 on your face? Well, at $299 I think question, and that was a device I found myself owned one. But then as the pandemic waned more, I though it can do more, I personally haven't found partially because Beat Saber got stale for me. The typically ones I found myself personally drawn to Though to be fair, I'm not a very broad gamer. and buy hardware specifically for those games, so know in the comments what your experience and if you have a Quest 3, what have you thought the Quest 3 is a great device that I can for those who want a great gaming device that want immersive fitness experiences, as well experience in any Quest headset to date. And for I do think Meta has packed enough upgrades your Quest 2 and upgrade to the three. The Quest check its price compared to the Quest 2 as well multicolored facial interfaces. And yes, Quests and a charging dock, though the dock feels a bit to the Vision Pro? Is the Quest 3 actually the go like another 10 minutes. I did a video on that if you're trying to figure out if you want to buy just want to see my full 6 months later review clicking here. If you like this video, make sure forget to subscribe to the channel for more videos review of The Meta Rayband smart glasses. For 6