PROFESSOR: This is a divided into two 15.871 is the six That's what probably most of What I would urge you to because you and I will The second half And although we think the real value in a meaningful capability able to use system dynamics and will come if you take You don't have to exercise You can wait make that But think about it for right There are five assignments over So the good news is The bad news is that and this class has a is reasonably well deserved The reason for that is clear. I can't teach you anything. I know you're But it's absolutely true. I can't teach you anything. All that I can do-- is create an opportunity for You have to do it, if you're going to That is not going to Now, you need to come to is part of the grade. But that's not sufficient. It's also necessary for And that is why we You also are going to need So this is the book. And it's pretty fat and heavy. You're not going to be asked The bad news on So I can tell you that it'll I don't care if you buy it. Although I always then you can kind of and you can save money by But I don't care if you buy it. I do care that you read it. You can't do well unless you read the material and work through some Chapter one is what you The syllabus tells you In addition, from are asking you to read studies or other material. And we'll provide from the professional literature So the question is why? Why do we need something like thinking? And I think the that the world is changing Things are accelerating. Everybody knows that. That's kind of the price of It's that, despite all the tools all the analytic power things are getting And more and more of the are failing to solve that we face. And this is not is what the senior leaders and what they tell me. And the thoughtful ones-- they say it's not are getting harder despite our cleverness but because of it. That we're too clever And I illustrate this of one of the leaders that I've worked with. And here is the poor Now many of you have but I think it's just a great going on. Like most senior managers he is completely squeeze Can't breathe. Claustrophobic. And what you're asked to do as You've got to make decisions. Boo. Things are now much Now you can begin to see out to the side. Relief. Things are great. But as you may be some unanticipated Now, the reason I like I'm showing it to think it's a great way to a lot of systems Why does this happen? Why does this happen? And why don't people learn? So it's not just but people do it So why? That's a real question for you. So what do think? Why might this happen? And why might this Yeah go ahead. AUDIENCE: It's only and the short-term PROFESSOR: Great. So short-term time about what might happen later. So apres-moi le deluge. I don't care. I'll do what's good for I don't care if it OK great. What else? Yeah go ahead. AUDIENCE: Feedback loops. So you would get some consider it the way PROFESSOR: So there's definitely And the problem is that for that to happen. So the time delay in missing feedback-- is connected In fact, what's going to to this manager right about now? He solved the problem, right? So what happens to him. AUDIENCE: He gets promoted. PROFESSOR: Of course. He gets promoted. You get to sit in the chair. It's a combination of and not only by that who are evaluating and maybe encouraging him to That's not going to be good What else? What else might be going on? We get somebody [? Argoff, ?] what do you think? AUDIENCE: I think it's when you're thinking you find that can you make about what the impact of-- PROFESSOR: This is a And let me put it When people say, it wasn't my was some outside effect, some something that came It wasn't my fault. They're trying to persuade great managers and shouldn't for the bad outcome. In fact, almost all the time, the result of their Feedback they didn't understand And what they're is persuade you that But what they're is how narrow and is their understanding of embedded, what we would I think that's where So that's a really in what we're going to be about. So one of the mental is the most damaging out there And here's the question. In a project that or that you were have you seen this picture? Can I see hands? Who's seen it? Almost everybody. Who's drawn it in one of About 3/4 of the same hands. This is a very interesting, of mental models about complex dynamical systems. And it basically says, there's to the project. We're going to We're going to gather the select the optimal solution, And of course, the students what's wrong with this picture? They all said, oh well. You know. You're a professor. So you've never implemented OK. Now, in fact, a is devoted to the implementation so often fails. We're going to talk about that. System dynamics isn't useful make things different. If you can't catalyze in which you're engaged, You might as well So we're going to and I mean that in all that you're laughing about. We're going to talk about especially in the second You're going to see a lot of been able to use these in difficult political So that's an issue. But it's not the real problem. The real problem with this one-way sequential says there's a beginning, I don't know about you, but no has ever gone that way. There's always We have to go back to the unintended, unplanned and we find out as we interview the folks And we evaluate supply chain for the new We really didn't We really didn't understand We have to loop back This happens continually all And it's that feedback So this is the metaphor that I You make decisions. Your decisions change the world. And then that creates which changes your next decision iterative set of Now let me make this Again, this is a slight who have had me in orientation. But it's worth it, haven't seen this for awhile. So here's that open People say, I know my goals. I want better market share. I want more profitability. I want a bigger house, or a That's going to And then my decisions the state of the world, state That's wrong. I can't know what just because I know I have to also know There has to be a feedback. So the example I always give is and as I was riding this morning, as keep my bike on the right If I don't, I'm going So just knowing that I need is not enough for me to know I have to have the feedback is in order to know which It is the same for you, driving Now if flying your organization fighting with the happy and calm in the nice drinks and hors d'oeuvres-- was just as easy as isn't that easy by the was. It doesn't take much bad in your bloodstream to much that you're going to crash or crash your bicycle. But if it was as easy to is to ride a bike, no problem. We wouldn't need this class. But it's not. And it's not easy in part, which represents the intended but doesn't capture It's only piece of the system. So you're embedded in a much in which that's what's That represents mental models But mental models are limited. And all the impacts of your of your decisions that you and that aren't part they're going to manifest Remember there's no such There's just the effects that you were counting is going to manifest as And they're usually in a way that's Much more interesting, the only player in the world. So there's all the all the other agents out there. And they have their own different from your goals. You want more market There is only 100% to divide up. And every time you even if they're the world closer to necessarily going to be away from those your customers, your suppliers, the competitors, the communities the natural world in which That's all going to be there. And those goals are going to to try to bring the back to what they want it to be. Their mental models And so they're going to generate effects. And now this is getting to to manage-- not as easy The whole story here is about of your mental models so that is something that you can to take into account You're never going because all models are wrong. Model is not the real system. Only the reality is the reality. And everything in your head is representation. But we can do a lot better that we have now. So what are we going to do? What we're going to in this class to elicit articulate them, and do that in organizations. We're going to explicitly and stocks and foils, and time and the other elements of And then we're going to figure out what that means. Not because the model is all models are wrong-- because to give us insight that and the mental models who need to be involved in so that people are empowered effective policies to go out You can read in the syllabus But I think there I'd like to leave you with The first is that it's the that generates their behavior. That structure of the system, the information and then the decision used to turn that All three of those Mental models matter a lot. It is not enough just to come And it's not enough the physics of the system, or system, or the incentives All those are aren't generally sufficient. And one of the very powerful is what we call the error in psychology. And this is an idea you should And it's the idea that if you I've got reasons It was the customer's fault. It was somebody else's fault. The sun was in my eyes. But if I'm asked to It's because you're not capable. You don't have what it takes, And that is almost always wrong. And it's low leverage. It doesn't help. So to put that into we come in here, and you we're going to make the We believe that everybody is capable, cares about doing