Since the 1980s, economy seats in domestic airlines with the least being Spirit Airlines with 28 inches. And seat width has shrunk too. At the same time, seats at the front of the plane have Airlines have been spending big to add more space and In fact, airplane seats were a $2.6 billion market airlines spent on their aircraft interiors. Really at the heart of that on board product is the That's what you're going to be spending the most time The seats have developed from very simple seats to high tech products. Seats are not all the same. On a typical aircraft, they range from economy to And recently, airlines have seen a willingness among Delta estimates its premium revenue will be 35% of 24% in 2014. Emirates introduced premium economy last summer. And since then, over 160,000 customers have bought up Getting from A to B isn't necessarily what they're Anyone can do that. It's that experience within the cabin. Competition is heating up as airlines upgrade their wings, wireless charging, even showers to win over Other airlines are also very conscious that people are of experience and that will see them pay to go into Premium economy seats cost more to make, but bring in The goal of the airlines is obviously to make money on that comes from making sure that passengers not only on board. CNBC got an inside look at Recaro's aircraft and to find out why they are becoming an increasingly Aircraft seating has come a long way since the early chairs evolving to those with plush cushioning and the Over the last few decades, changing technology and cabin and design of seats. There are also rigorous safety requirements like crash fly. They are designed for reliability. They build these things to withstand not just a 16g crash test experience. Seats and the space between them have also gotten have gotten larger. Modern economy class seats are pounds, reflecting passenger sizes in the early 1960s. But the average U.S. Male is 200 pounds today. There are some manufacturers that are working on ways But I do think we're starting to get, in some cases, reasonable and what passengers are actually going to There are some regulations around seat pitch that make You have to be able to evacuate the aircraft in a that is. Cabin configuration has changed, too, with more classes premium economy, business and first class. There's probably no more valuable real estate in the take off. And especially in the premium cabins. And so the airlines work very, very, very, very hard American Airlines, Delta and United have been adding Premium economy is really on the rise and more and more switching three class layout to a four class layout. Premium economy is often a separate cabin in between higher price with similar amenities, but not quite the Seats vary depending on the route and the airline. Typically, long haul flights offer more legroom and Airlines like Emirates and Etihad sell full suites shower on board. 20ish years ago, it was let's get to a flat bed so And today we're starting to talk about more privacy on cocoon themselves in the cabin and not be interrupted Airlines order seats from seat manufacturers, not from The market for aircraft seating is dominated by a Recaro, Collins Aerospace. There are a lot, though, of other smaller players, cabins. The airline customers, we are working together with the for 8 to 10 years and then they are replacing the Seats can last up to 30 years, but top tier airlines After that, they are often sold to a lower tier With the recent delays in new aircraft deliveries, keep up with the snapback in travel demand. And spending more for a new seat versus a refurbished It really is to do with the lift that the airline needs flying longer. But at the same time, being mindful that they wouldn't end of its life. An airline can have hundreds of planes in its fleet, cost can add up. For example, economy seats cost roughly $2,000 each, a whistles like lying flat can range from $70,000 to 16 business class seats and 150 in economy to nearly Bigger planes like the A380 can have over 400 seats. From the airline perspective, figuring out which seat How much is it going to cost me today? How many seats can I fit on board? How much is it going to cost me to maintain them going The seats are way too cheap, I need to tell you, cabin, it's less than 5% of the investment of the If you're fitting out an A380 with the volume of seats class and business class, then you could easily get If it's an A320 and it's completely fitted out with it's in hundreds of thousands. And it very much depends what you're changing. When it comes to designing a new seat. A lot of things come into play like weight cost, In the end, it's a differentiator. That's also the reason why the airline is willing to seat according to their needs, because all of them are It's the first cabin product you'll see. Generally speaking, when you get on board the So it's really important to make a great first People want a cabin experience where people come on to that may be from the smallest things to really differentiate the experience. The hardest part for us is to get the most space out a lower the weight to the absolute minimum. And all the electronic parts which are being added are away from that goal. Airlines and seat manufacturers are very secretive All the new platforms are designed in-house from Usually, then the airline comes with a certain idea then we adjust the seats to their needs in terms of textiles, also special features. Designing new seats takes several years. The time it takes to design a seat from scratch until economy and four for business class. U.S. airlines like Delta have been making a bigger growth is outpacing its main cabin, increasing 25% When we decided to embark on this new first class seat, there were four things that were really important to So from a privacy perspective, you'll notice we have as well as a center divider between the seats and the We have both a personal item stowage as well as a The new Delta first class seats started rolling out It's a multi, multi-million dollar investment. There's 20 of them per aircraft and we have 155 So that's that's a big chunk. And we have several programs down the line that will There's a trend to more privacy due to the experience So you have more of a cocoon situation. It just feels better and it's easier to work in. Delta rivals United and JetBlue recently unveiled new well. United plans to offer wireless phone charging The airline also offers its Polaris product, which are Jetblue recently redesigned its mint class to offer We do still see a demand for things like bars on You'll see that on A380s, the new triple sevens. I think really what the airlines are trying to get the you might get from a premium or a first class product areas such that the customer can pick when they want They can be private then when they want to socialize, A transatlantic ticket in business class can cost four The majority of seats on aircraft are made up of the seat share on planes over the last five years. What the airlines and the customers are asking for, for And say economy people want to have power at the seats. There really is a mix of some want TV screens where Airlines have spent years trying to fit as many seats Airlines could reduce pitch a little more if they It does become a business question of whether I do think we we reached the limit and we are still some products where we kind of stretch the physical As for standing or stacked seats, that's not something With all the certification requirements, which are and limits somehow the possibilities for the different bus or on a train. The demand for seats will continue for the foreseeable expected to grow over the next two decades. So much so that an estimated 22,000 new aircraft are demand. With the rebound of the industry and now the rebound, more or less back on a pre-COVID level. Business is lagging behind, but passengers who haven't normally one higher class. If they have booked before economy now they are booking economy before now they are very often booking a filled from the front. As far as what kind of seats you can expect. The trends are pointing towards more premium products. We're starting to see flatbeds rolling out more and We're seeing it on some 737 Max fleet as well. Depending on how far the airlines fly and what their So that is definitely something that is a growing And for the airlines that have that almost long haul aisle planes, it is going to be a trend for the It's about how we tune the experience so that when you car to the aircraft, it's seamless. That's what people want. It's going to be bringing more and more of those and advanced cars. More and more of that coming into the aircraft such want it and exactly the way that you want to