Dr. Gibala: More vigorous intensity exercise, lead to greater improvements in VO2max or So some people engage in training and it's change at all. And there's various reasons for that that But for example, some evidence has shown that for six months or so, doing guideline-based a measurable improvement in their VO2max. Now some of that non-response was eliminated of exercise but engaging in a more vigorous So that would seem to argue against zone two lead to Rome. You know, there's many different strategies And I think a big thing is what do you like, Do you like and enjoy vigorous intermittent-type Then maybe it's for you. If you prefer continuous lower-intensity moderate-exercise you absolutely hate intervals, that's okay Rhonda: Hi, everyone. I'm sitting here with Dr. Martin Gibala, who at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. I'm pretty excited to be sitting here with Perhaps he's most well-known for his pioneering He wrote a very popular book called The One As you know, Marty, I'm very excited to have of health benefits that can be achieved in is there. If you are pushing hard, you are doing an And for me, it's very appealing as a full-time Time is the limiting factor for me. So maybe we could just jump right in this with defining some of these terms or differentiating high-intensity interval training, HIIT, both So... Yeah. Dr. Gibala: So thanks for the opportunity. Lots of different ways to define things. I think there can be general agreement that a relative heart rate of about 80% of your But there's no universal definition for high-intensity But that would be a typical or average threshold. So about 80% of max. You're working pretty hard, but it's not an Again, the other &quot;I&quot; in there is just intermittent. So this idea of going relatively hard, backing times. And interval training, it's this thing that You know, athletes have used it since the popular the last decade or so or renewed popularity some more legitimate than others, of course, Rhonda: Is interval training... Like when you say interval training, because 80% of your max heart rate. If you're doing... Is interval training also that as well? It's just kind of interchanged? Or is it like, do you go a little bit less Yeah. Dr. Gibala: Increasingly, I like the term term. And again, that's just relatively harder effort more a broader way of doing that. So if you're just starting out getting into by walking fast for a few lightposts and then That's a form of interval training. Don't worry at all about whether you're at So I think of HIIT, high-intensity interval training as opposed to being the be-all and Rhonda: Got it. So with high-intensity interval training, I've heard you talk about, and you've published book, the health benefits of high-intensity you're gonna talk all about. But recently, there's been a very... Another form that's become very popular of two training, as defined by a lower-intensity However, that type of training does require I mean, anywhere between three to six hours So can someone achieve similar improvements doing, let's say, 20 to 25 minutes of high-intensity And if so, what... Are we leaving anything on the table if we're two type of training? Dr. Gibala: Yeah, so in short, I think you for shorter periods of time and at least see So for the individual who is time-pressed, four hours of what I understand to be zone in VO2max. In fact, there's evidence that would suggest exercise can potentiate or lead to greater known as non-response. So some people engage in training and it's change at all. And there's various reasons for that that But for example, some evidence has shown that for six months or so, doing guideline-based a measurable improvement in their VO2max. Now some of that non-response was eliminated of exercise but engaging in a more vigorous So that would seem to argue against zone two lead to Rome. You know, there's many different strategies And I think a big thing is what do you like, Do you like and enjoy vigorous intermittent-type Then maybe it's for you. If you prefer continuous lower-intensity moderate-exercise you absolutely hate intervals, that's okay Rhonda: Can you talk about what VO2max is? We hear a lot about it and why it's important would be interested in it as well. Dr. Gibala: Sure. So VO2max is the maximum rate of oxygen uptake It's typically measured during an incremental So you get up to very high work rates and of oxygen uptake. It's determined by many physiological factors capacity of the cardiovascular, the respiratory, up and utilize oxygen. It's clearly important for athletes. It sort of sets the ceiling. You know, and a challenge for athletes in you work for a defined period of time? And so, you know, the higher the oxygen uptake, It's also the clinical correlate of VO2max So VO2max is the best objective measure of is so important. Epidemiological studies show having a higher a reduction in all-cause mortality, dying different chronic diseases, cardiovascular So bottom line is having a higher fitness It protects you. It reduces your risk of dying and developing And the best way to measure that is through Rhonda: So you mentioned these epidemiological are looking at the correlation between higher There's a really, I think, important paper there was an inverse relationship between upper limit. And the elite performing athletes or the elite mortality compared to the lowest performers So my question for you is, do you think someone doing the high-intensity interval training a week, do you think they can be one of those Is that like what you would think would be Or do you have to be an athlete? How can someone... Do we need to do extra, you know, types of to that level, that 80%? there. And I think, to be clear, the way that an activity or exercise for their general health an elite endurance athlete might train. And that has to do with lots of things, including So if you're a serious or an elite or very in 15, 20 sessions of training per week. You're training 25, 30 hours a week of training. And the best evidence, you know, gleaned...there's opinion from high-level coaches and athletes ideal mix or ratio to optimize endurance performance. So about 80% low to moderate intensity type much of it including interval training. Again, that's the way that an elite athlete a week. I think that ratio can change if we're talking or three to four hours a week of physical how to structure that type of training, fit And I think there that ratio can change fairly And you can incorporate...I would submit that if you're only doing one, two, three hours boost in fitness. Rhonda: So even potentially one hour, one something...I mean, you mentioned the 80-20 a lot, and I think about it because I am not I am, you know, far from an athlete. I am a committed, you know, exerciser, I guess I mean, and I am also very interested in longevity And I wanna talk about measuring that in a So it's, you know, it's not like finding if...you we can get 80% of the, you know, improvements I mean, that, you know, because if I can get Like that's a good amount because there's Like that's not my life. I can't do that, you know? But I wanna get those improvements in VO2 Dr. Gibala: Correct. No, and, you know, I would consider myself I'm a committed exerciser. You know, it's in my calendar, I'm sure, much know, you're busy trying to think what's the But you know, so a couple of things. I think whatever reason you're active or exercising Is it performance? Is it general health? Is it trying to optimize that time? And I think for a lot of people, it does seem You know, maybe it's one hour a week, maybe What's the best way that I can utilize that And for those individuals, again, I would in more vigorous intensity exercise may potentiate That's not to say it's the prescription for And the other thing I think we need to remember the smaller changes in fitness, right? So we look at, you know, people who have low, or low, moderate, and high VO2 max levels, out of that low range, right? And then you continue to gain benefits, but And the extreme would be the elite athlete maximize their physiology, and now they're You know, what can I possibly do to eke out That way of thinking and training is not necessarily serious committed exercisers who are primarily Rhonda: Right. Like Stu, I like Stu's analogy of like squeezing out. You know, that's something that, you know, I would be interested in doing. But right now, I'm like, how can I get to getting that VO2 max? Maybe getting all of it if I could, like going But you do, going hard, you mentioned intensity, heart rate. There's these, you know, calculators for maximum You know, I guess I would say there's an equation But that doesn't consider fitness levels. I mean, would you say that's still kind of go out or should they like go do an all-out heart rate? Dr. Gibala: Well, and there, you know, 220 common. There's a number of other formulas that have I think the key thing to remember is there's And so, if we had a thousand of your listeners reasonably confident that the average maximal 180, 220 minus 40. But there's gonna be tremendous inter-individual And what we call the standard deviation, it's But what that means is about two-thirds of 170 and 190. 95% of listeners would fall somewhere between And there'd be 5% on either tail, 2.5% each, below 160 or above 200. So there's a huge range there. And so, when you just pick... So for an individual listener now, they're It might be dramatically underestimating intensity So 220 minus your age, it's fine. I think a better way to do it is just try And there's different ways to do that. The classic would be to go out to a local or 400-yard loop one time around as hard as You're gonna pretty much get to your maximal Or if you're on a bike, a stationary ergometer, So you're increasing the watt. Every one minute, you're putting it up 10 You're gonna be able to measure your individual whether you're using the hand, or whether So bottom line is measuring it directly on Rhonda: Well, those are some good suggestions I have not done the actual test that... Is it called a stress test too? That's what people do. You stress your body to the limit. Dr. Gibala: Exactly. So definitely, we have people come into our test, and we'll be able to give them their But it's also something you can do on your As long as you're measuring it with a reasonably So it's sort of the simple way of getting Rhonda: Yeah. For the VO2max, like measuring the maximal I guess, maximal exercise, you mentioned to and they're not going to get that measured They're not going to a lab like yours or to to know, should I do it? Or is there an estimator I can do that's good Or how do I decide if I should or shouldn't? Like what, you know, like athletes, probably But, you know, so this online calculator, you could talk just briefly about the science Sure. Dr. Gibala: So, you know, I'm not associated is, it's a valid calculator for estimating And so what I mean by that is it's based largely in Norway, in particular Norwegian Technological They've been real pioneers in a lot of interval And so the bottom line is they have a lot they correlate or are related to, or can predict And so of all of the calculators that are could trust the most in terms of answering their typical activity levels, and it will max. But it's still just an estimate because it's It's not going to be able to dial in any better you a marker in the sand, a reasonable marker. And even if it's not precisely accurate, you you to track changes over time. So you plug your answers into the online calculator, is 38 or 45. And then you engage in some sort of training you do it again. And if you see a directional change up or confident that you know your training program max, even if the precise number is not 100% Rhonda: Yeah, that makes sense. There's a few factors in there that were a your resting heart rate and your max heart circumference, I think it was. So there are definitely some features aside But also, the estimation of how intense are There's a subjective component to it where So again, it's kind of good to know that you People are interested in probably doing that. But for the average person, do you think measuring Dr. Gibala: The other way is, and in between, test. And there's a number of validated tests that We could drop those in the show notes. But where you basically are performing a couple your heart rate, and then essentially plug and said, okay, well, if this is your rate to your maximum, this is what your VO2 max Or there's, I don't know if you have these where basically you're running back and forth And after a point, you're not able to keep But it's called a shuttle run test or a beep And it basically, the more power you're able with as you have to get faster and faster correlates with your VO2 max. So bottom line is all of these are submaximal They're better than just an online questionnaire, because at least it's providing some data So you can't just say, oh, I'm engaging in It's going to actually measure your heart So that would sort of be an in-between. But yeah, the gold standard is having a VO2 And that's going to give you your VO2 max And it's also going to give you a lot of data your lactate, in order to try and look at Rhonda: With respect to other cardiorespiratory one here, right? There's stroke volume increases, cardiac output. How does high-intensity interval training What are those? How does high-intensity interval training continuous exercise? Dr. Gibala: Yeah, sure. So what determines VO2 max? And as I alluded to earlier, it's many physiological consensus, scientific consensus, that the in terms of their VO2 max is their cardiac So that's what is the maximum amount of blood blood and oxygen that's being pumped out of And so a typical untrained individual would liters per minute. So if you were to measure how much blood comes five liters. And maximal cardiac outputs are somewhere trained individual. Elite athletes have maximal cardiac outputs And so again, if you could pick one variable individuals, it would be maximal cardiac output. And that's determined by how often is your heart rate, times what you alluded to, your And so that's just how much blood with each The other primary determinant would be how that oxygen. So your heart's pumping it out, your circulation your muscles and your mitochondria ultimately And so for a long time, there was tension side or the utilization side in terms of oxygen And certainly you can put people in situations but generally speaking, it's the delivery heart. And probably why VO2 max is such a good measure all cause mortality, cardiovascular disease or problems with your heart is a major contributor Rhonda: Yeah. And high intensity interval training, I know And so is that another way of improving cardiac Dr. Gibala: It is. And so now we're talking scientifically, VO2 Basically any exercise physiology laboratory centers, they can all measure VO2 max well, right? You put a tube in your mouth and you measure So it's easy to measure. All these other things that we're talking think about what you would have to do to measure out of your heart every minute. And there are ways to do that, but they're They're very invasive, requiring significant So the point is, there's not a lot of direct but there have been, and there's also ways to non-invasively assess cardiac output. And so some of those studies have looked at on cardiac output. And they've shown that more vigorous or more with greater improvements in stroke volume dose or same total amount of continuous moderate Rhonda: So maybe if the dose was higher of sort of trade-off between duration versus Dr. Gibala: No, absolutely. And, you know, the other, so many points to is getting the sense, you know, there's a frustrating for people, because they just science say? And science is always really gray, right? It's not as clear as we would like often. But, you know, when it comes even to exercise short term, right? A three month training study is a long time And so we don't necessarily know what the right? And so if they engaged in longer periods of get to the same level, you know, and maybe to their, the rate of improvement is a little are you leaving something off the table by You know, we don't conclude, we could get of the answers to all those questions. Rhonda: Yeah. You mentioned the mitochondrial component, to the muscle, and, you know, mitochondria So maybe we can talk a little bit about some intensity interval training, maybe compare But mitochondria are very, I mean, it's probably most of our cells, particularly in skeletal And I recall quite a few studies from your interval training was a very potent stimulus of new mitochondria. So can you talk a little bit about, I mean, the difference between more continuous exercise, Dr. Gibala: Sure. So you're absolutely right. You know, and I think even if people took mitochondria, these sort of bean shaped things But we now know mitochondria are this amazing So it's a bit like if you can imagine all muscle fibers, the best evidence now would same way. It's this network of organelle that goes through The size of the organelle, but you can have surprisingly quickly. So you can increase mitochondrial content days or weeks of training. And it seems to go the other direction pretty So when you detrain, you can lose mitochondrial You know, so what does exercise do? Any type of exercise, if you can imagine exercise And so all of these stress compounds or indices So you immediately have this large increase oxygen species, lactate, hydrogen ions change. And many of those, you can think of those They're saying, oh my goodness, we have an is going to signal that we need more energy. And so many of those compounds, those acute signaling pathways that are associated with And so this is the idea of mitochondrial biogenesis, And those pathways are really, really well research and, you know, very sophisticated But largely, what's seen in humans is, it So an acute bout of exercise causes increase And as I mentioned, within a few days, or mitochondria measured with microscopy or Western There's lots of methods to assess that. Now, how does HIIT and continuous compare? Again, we definitely have studies on this, So a needle biopsy, a small sample of muscle at least a highly trained individual under So they're invasive procedures. And what we get is snapshots in time, we don't change over days and weeks, we have these But certainly, you know, my laboratory, a continuous and interval training, there is vigorous exercise when the total dose is matched, increase in mitochondrial content, again, So is it just getting you somewhere faster? And if you do enough of it over time, it starts We don't really have a great answer for that Rhonda: If you are generating more mitochondria, fat oxidation, mitochondria are the primary fat to produce energy. What do you think of this concept of, you burning during exercise is...so you have to to have adaptations for better fat, you know, just, you know, at steady state, at rest. So in other words, like, you know, you have those adaptations. Dr. Gibala: So, you know, mitochondria consume The primary ones, of course, carbohydrate So whatever you feed it, feed the mitochondria, capacity for that, it will burn either of But you're right, you know, mitochondrial by an individual muscle or fat oxidation during content. And in particular, a very specific enzyme palmitoyltransferase or CPT, that's sort of the mitochondria. Once they're inside the mitochondria, they But there's good data to show that that's And so with training, you want to increase And, you know, there's various supplements CPT activity. You know, one of the reasons why carnitine to increase your oxidation of fatty acids. The data on that's, you know, not great, but But yeah, you know, lots of debate around content because that in turn is going to set And athletes in particular want to have a even in very lean individuals, there's ample a very precious and limited fuel. So ideally, we'd like to preserve carbohydrate and we need a very high rate of carbohydrate Rhonda: So if you're doing a high-intensity above 80% max heart rate, you're now going producing more lactate quicker than you can I mean, so this idea is like that you're not the exercise, but that doesn't necessarily more fat after, because it does, as you just So you're actually increasing the capacity Dr. Gibala: No, absolutely. So to me, what's important is the increase in mitochondria. And I think generally, mitochondria have hundreds, are all necessary to build the mitochondria, and decrease in parallel, right? So there's not necessarily a specific way I talked about. So I think that the most important adaptation mitochondrial content, which then will allow a greater carbohydrate oxidation capacity. And you don't have to only work at a high that boost in mitochondria. So there's many different ways to stimulate Rhonda: What do you, just as a sort of side epinephrine, norepinephrine, which are increased type of exercise, correct? And that also sort of has some fat. I mean, is it lipolysis maybe? It does. Dr. Gibala: So the catecholamines, norepinephrine, And so norepinephrine is an important hormone break down triglyceride and release those So, you know, much like we were talking about, about oxygen, it's delivery of oxygen and When it comes to fatty acid use, it's delivery oxidation of those fatty acids. And you can definitely give people supplements It's going to make more fatty acids available. It's going to increase the breakdown of triglycerides, oxidation. So I think there's quite good evidence that resides inside the muscle and it's at that to get the fatty acids into the mitochondria Rhonda: Yeah, that's great. And then mitochondrial biogenesis is increasing I mean, if you're looking at least at a per Because you're more mitochondria within that Yes. Sort of, we were talking about this a little So talking about mitochondrial biogenesis, health would be mitophagy, which would be mitochondria. As you know, there's definitely not a lot There's animal evidence, but how much that with respect to exercise and particularly But what I did want to touch on was autophagy, It's a little bit... We've got more markers to measure it, and muscle with respect to response to exercise. And I'm just curious what your thoughts are exercise is more potent for stimulating autophagy fast itself. And you don't even have to be in a fasted exercise, which to me was like, you know... So what is the significance, do you think, And do you guys look at that or... Dr. Gibala: We don't study that in our laboratory. I think the bottom line there is exercise of many of these cellular processes, including So it supports mitochondrial health. It sort of promotes the sort of breakdown So it's important to maintain mitochondrial capacity of these mitochondria. You know, clearly, I'm a proponent of vigorous-intensity There's some other studies out there that temporarily impair mitochondrial capacity. So if you measure it immediately post-exercise in too vigorous an effort. You basically really hammer your cells, and they start to come back. And so there's some criticism of interval especially very intensive Wingate-style all-out-type capacity. We're talking about different things there, But, you know, I think this is the idea that It temporarily disrupts or damages things. And then it's all about the recovery that And we continually do that. And over time, things get better. But certainly, can we acutely over-train or it takes a prolonged period of time before Sure. It's a bit like, you know, concentric and We know that eccentric weightlifting exercise You get more sore. And so you tend to take a little bit more So not as simple as just high-intensity good, There's a lot of nuance there depending on Rhonda: Yeah. I'd love to dive into that a little bit more Because that's really interesting. And the Wingate, you know, also just kind or... Dr. Gibala: It is. So if you've never done a Wingate test, it's The way to...so Wingate tests are done on that allows for variable intensity efforts. But the best way to think of it is if you on it, setting it the highest workload possible. So it's even hard to get it going. And after five seconds, you feel yourself The workload is so high. And so you just hang on as long as you can. What these specialized bikes do, they sort resistance. And so it will optimize that curve over the But it's an extremely demanding test. And so some of our early work was using that most intensive types of short, hard exercise Wingate tests. Very, very challenging, especially late in You have lots of pH disturbance, lots of lactic It hurts. It's uncomfortable. It's not a fun way to train. Rhonda: Yeah. I've never done one of those, but I may have The other skeletal muscle adaptations that particularly like there's this capillary density, sort of like that, HIIT affects capillary What is that? Dr. Gibala: Yeah, it does. You know, as a muscle physiologist, I think, that are critical, especially from an aerobic mitochondria and the increase in capillarization. So you need more of the blood vessels in order skeletal muscle. And then, of course, there's other adaptations. We've seen increasing muscle glycogen content. So you store more fuel on board that you can You increase the transport for many things, And so one of the reasons why exercise is sugar or diabetes, you know, there's lots increase glucose transport capacity on the And so what that means is it allows more glucose as muscle glycogen, and that helps to lower chronically high. And so individuals who start and engage in they'll find if they are diabetic is they what's happening is the muscle's more fit. And rather than needing the drug to try and more naturally, if you will, or it's grown clear the glucose, the elevated glucose from Rhonda: How does the difference in increasing on the muscle differ when you're doing that Dr. Gibala: Yeah, so again, I think for a about in muscle, there is evidence to show cause changes in these GLUT4 transporters. We've shown that, including in people with But there's just not the body of evidence say one is better than the other. We've done a number of studies showing at can elicit superior improvements in some of But again, the valid criticism is these are They're not always appropriately powered. Many of these, especially our early studies, concept or pilot studies. Do these things work? And writ large, we really need these randomized of these questions. Rhonda: What about insulin sensitivity? Is that also...I mean, so there's...like you I mean, that's another...I mean, that's one And certainly repeated, I mean, acute bouts talking even throughout the day that would But also, like people are, you know, insulin How does HIIT affect that? Dr. Gibala: Yeah. So there's various ways to measure insulin But, you know, generally exercise increases There are some systematic reviews and meta-analyses vigorous effort can lead to some greater improvements But again, even though, you know, we think those are really definitive evidence. But many of the underlying studies tend to low numbers of participants, all of the potential trying to bias their results. But they don't always include all of the proper that you might like to see. So sometimes the underlying evidence is limited systematic reviews and meta-analyses. But certainly there is some evidence to suggest may lead to some superior benefits there. You know, just...I'm sure we might hit on through the day, one of the things that we what we termed exercise snacks. So these brief bouts of vigorous intensity and we're running right now two randomized the University of British Columbia, my colleague, And one of the main outcomes is measures of in groups that are doing these very short throughout the day to try and get at exactly How many times a day? So we're encouraging people to do at least So, you know, we define an exercise snack intensity exercise. It could be jumping on a stationary bike. It could be a series of air squats or bodyweight And we're delivering in the intervention...we've prompts on people's cell phones. And so they basically get a prompt that says, That links to a little YouTube video that And we're encouraging them to do that four More is better. And we're following them for three months, And we're comparing it to a movement snacks So a group that's getting a very similar intervention, exercise. So it's more stretching, mobility exercise. And so the key variable that's changing there And we're seeing, you know, how do people Like, will people even do that? And if they do it, is it enough to move the fitness, blood markers of fat, immune function, as well? One of the studies that we're doing is going in individuals with type 2 diabetes. Rhonda: Fantastic. So they're going to be wearing accelerometers Yes, yes. Dr. Gibala: So we're trying to track movement And they're going to be wearing continuous as well. Rhonda: So this kind of reminds me of some activity studies, VILPA, as you have called So are those studies also considered exercise Dr. Gibala: No. So you're right. VILPA is vigorous intermittent lifestyle physical Professor Emmanuel Stamatakis out of the University So I've been fortunate to be part of a really VILPA in various ways. But to be clear, we're talking not-structured So you could think of VILPA in some ways as snack. And so we're talking activities of daily living And so I'll give you a very specific example. So to get to the recording studio today, I I had to get here, right? Somehow I had to get here. I took a ride-sharing service for most of But leaving my hotel room, I had a choice I could have taken the stairs there or to I could have walked at a leisurely pace or And said, I'm gonna engage in a vigorous manner Arrive at the location, again, it's another to the front door. I could do that in a vigorous pace or at a Or I could carry my backpack, right? And engage in that. And so the question there with VILPA is in already part of our lives, if you embed vigorous be, you take a five-hour flight and get off there or you have the stairs. Many people are taking the escalator, but climb up the stairs for 30 seconds to a minute, And so again, you gotta move from one level exercise, that's just activities of daily And the question that's being asked in that a vigorous manner, is that meaningful? And there's some evidence for that, including that was, it mined the UK Biobank data. And so what that allowed the investigators who engaged in VILPA-like efforts, they wore they were followed over almost seven years cardiovascular disease mortality, cancer mortality. And that work showed or revealed that people total a day of VILPA-like activity had substantial talking 25, 30%. So that would suggest that even brief, non-exercise, move the needle in terms of health outcomes. And of course, we would suspect that maybe or metabolic changes that we know are associated So that's not cause and effect evidence, it's very robustly done the way the work was conducted Rhonda: I agree because after you shared those on the higher end, so you mentioned kind of day, when they were getting up to like more like 50% reduction in cardiovascular mortality, I mean, that's really incredible that these these short bursts of vigorous intensity exercise and health span, basically. Dr. Gibala: The other, if I can add, the other all of these people were self-identified non-exercisers. And so the point is, even people who self-identify in vigorous activity through the day. Now, part of that might be their physical to get them into a vigorous intensity range And actually, as part of that study, it was as exercisers and the same phenomenon were So even in exercisers, engaging in VILPA-like So again, lots of work to follow up on, what do this? But you can imagine, again, getting back to activities in a smartwatch or an app on a or four or five or 10 minutes of VILPA a day. But three or four minutes of VILPA is about large reductions in risk. Rhonda: And that is very doable. That is very, I mean, to say you can't do just saying, I don't want to be healthy. And the other, it's interesting, I don't wanna wonder how much also of these VILPA studies just not being sedentary also, because that's independent of exercise, right? So like I sit at my, I don't consider myself activity almost every day, pretty much. So I'm doing something, I'm either doing my training, but I also sit at my desk for a I'm sitting there, sitting, and that is when So I'm actually trying now to incorporate structured. So it would be more of an exercise snack in high knees or something where, I mean, believe is the longest minute of my life. I mean, it's like hard. So- similar. I'm a committed exerciser. Pretty much I do something every day, but a lot. And so trying to build them into my day as But yeah, I think the key there is, you're will. All of us should be meeting physical activity them in, but there may be a double benefit approach in that it simultaneously breaks Because I'm sure like you, I don't like to suggest, even if you're a committed exerciser, Right. We like to think of exercise as this panacea, health outcomes, and reducing sedentary behavior sleep. Rhonda: So I kind of wanted to circle back because, well, one, you're an expert in that And we didn't touch on the, how high intensity of muscle fibers. So type one fibers, type two fibers, what How much does individual variation play in Dr. Gibala: So, big picture, generally speaking, They can be quantified different ways, histochemically, But there's slow twitch and fast twitch muscle Those definitions are based on basically how And so the fast twitch are sort of fast, explosive, So we think of those associated with variable the slow twitch, they don't generate as much as well. Sometimes also known as type one and type And those are generally looking at, there's how aerobic each of the muscle fibers are. So there's different ways to categorize them, differ in their characteristics. There's definitely something to the idea that size principle, in part based on the diameter So these slower twitch fibers, these type and they tend to be recruited first. So if I was to get up from the chair right the studio, very low intensity. Those muscle fibers that we would recruit or type one muscle fibers. They're good for low to moderate levels of fatiguing. Then we need to get back quickly to the studio, outside. We suddenly have to engage in very fast movement. We're gonna now recruit or call in these fast powerful muscle contractions in order to go We wouldn't be able to sprint away from the fatigue because these fast twitch or type of them. And so that idea of progressive recruitment What's not, it's not as clean to just be able we only recruit slow twitch or type one. When we do high intensity, we certainly don't We've already called on our slow twitch, and well. And the other point is, like a lot of things, So, you take a muscle biopsy sample, that's It's invasive, people have to volunteer. Sometimes it's a little painful, but you get Now you have to separate these muscle fibers. So you literally have to individually identify then you separate them into pools, and you Very intricate, time-consuming work. And so there's not a lot of data out there. A lot of animal studies that were done previously, clearly defined muscles. So they will have fibers, muscles that are are almost entirely slow twitch. And so in those, you can just take samples for example, and know that you're pretty much Human muscle is much more variable, heterogeneous. And so elite endurance athletes tend to have muscle fibers, 70, 80%. Elite strength athletes, power lifters, tend twitch muscle fibers. But the vast majority of us are walking around, And again, that complicates interpretation to different types of exercise. Rhonda: I see. Are people more prone to losing one type over Dr. Gibala: Yes. And so definitely there's evidence to suggest twitch muscle fibers, maybe, mainly, or sorry, But again, we could have a long discussion per se problem or aging per se. But bottom line is we tend to lose fast twitch as we age, strength training is important fast twitch muscle fibers. Rhonda: Does that correlate also with an increased Yeah, certainly the theories would be that yes, And so we need to maintain flexibility, balance, twitch muscle fibers through strength training falls and other risks. Rhonda: With respect to the metabolism aspect about the insulin sensitivity, the glucose I mean, all these things are good for both type two diabetes or high glucose, dysregulation, Also for people wanting to prevent also getting I mean, so there's two populations here, right? Dr. Gibala: Yeah, absolutely. Again, back to the elite athlete, they wanna they can, right? And the individual who's very sedentary, they raise the bar. So, we're just talking about a massive spectrum very high risk behavior to the elite athlete and is just looking for ways to further optimize wring out the sponge a little bit more. And of course, most of us fall somewhere in Rhonda: What about body composition, weight Obviously, diet is an important component intensity interval training to help lose fat? Also even help, you know, there's their increase for high intensity interval training in? Dr. Gibala: So, you're right in that, you novel that, you know, we control body mass through exercise and physical activity. And so, clearly exercise generally and high role in terms of weight management, body composition We've shown in some of our six and 12 week measurable changes in body composition such percentage, or a slight increase in lean mass But it tends to be relatively subtle and how Again, I think the biggest thing is there's And so, you can do less total exercise or more vigorous intensity exercise and burn There is something to the idea of personal this idea of a heightened rate of metabolism We've measured it. You know, you look on the internet and you'll right, where HIIT is way up here and moderate It's certainly nothing to that magnitude. And, but there is a difference, but it tends quickly. But those small differences can add up over And so, you know, people will say, well, how certainly sprint type training be effective during the efforts. Well, you do burn a greater rate of calories off. But again, I think right now the best data you might get away with some time savings get to the same place with more vigorous activity. Rhonda: Well, in contrast to that, getting one of the reasons I am so drawn in addition interval training is the brain effects. And there's no doubt that exercise in general I mean, there are improvements, you do any study, exercisers, non-exercisers, definitely, know, age-related diseases, neurodegenerative So, you know, not that there's not, you know, flow higher. However, I'm increasingly convinced when it be very unique benefits on the brain, and interval training or any type of high-intensity Some of that has to do with actually wanting So instead of this lactate threshold training of going, you know, right below the lactate you know, ways depending on what you're reading But the lactate shuttle theory, George Brooks anymore, so it kind of...the name kind of...it's But can you talk just kind of briefly about where the brain comes in to that? Dr. Gibala: Sure. So, you know, the lactate shuttle theory or back at your textbooks, you'll learn that end product, and it's just a metabolite like And it can be an extremely valuable fuel. And we know that...and there's elegant studies, that, you know, first of all, skeletal muscle So there's always some lactate production And certainly, during more intensive exercise it can be released from active skeletal muscle, heart, like the liver, like the brain, but Heart can be a big consumer of lactate, and back to glucose, and then utilize it during And so this is the idea of cell-to-cell or that's very well established now. Like you, and you would be far ahead of me, I have some colleagues at McMaster who are, standpoint and also more a hardcore, you know, in some collaborative research with them. But generally looking at this question of the role of intensity there. So you know, my understanding is mainly based reviews of some of this research, and my sense mechanisms now from some of the animal studies. And the human data is certainly intriguing, absolutely there appears to be a role for the better in terms of, you know, potential associated with neurogenesis. Rhonda: Yeah. The lactate, and we can talk about measuring mine. I do the finger prick, and my workouts, I'm You know, and I've read a lot of study... For me, I'm very interested in neurodegenerative On both sides of my family, Alzheimer's and So to me, I'm like, I need to really focus And so looking at the studies on lactate and, it increases BDNF, just infusing it. And I'm like, oh, I get these levels from Like this is great. But also, I feel really good. So I start my day with, including today, most I'm doing a...and I wanna talk about protocols, Tabata. So I'm doing two back-to-back Tabatas, actually. It's two back-to-back Tabatas. And then I have...there's some, you know, I actually don't... I use them more for...I'm actually still going cool down after that minute. So I, like, at the end, I go an all-out minute I'm like...and then I cool down. But, you know, I do this for my brain. I feel amazing. And there's actually science showing that correlates, and this is in humans, with lactate And it doesn't correlate with anything else, It's specific to the lactate. And like you said, it's a growing area of I'm particularly interested in it. Like, I, for sure, notice a difference in better, I feel smarter, I'm, like, more on So for me, it's a very important part of my And I do think there's a lot of benefits for So I'll have to be in touch with some of your studies and stuff that I find and learning as well. Dr. Gibala: And so the...and maybe there's scientist in me is innately curious around really, really good dose-response stuff in some of these other measures. So, you know, so for example, is short, sharp, moderate levels of lactate? Rhonda: Right. And I'll tell you something. It's not lactate that I've looked into, but And I think this is a very...I think it's shear force. And that is where, I mean, we're talking about about high intensity versus just, you know, And the shear force itself, at least at the you were talking about muscle capillary, I In and of itself, in a dose-dependent manner at the blood-brain barrier. Again, dose-dependent, all on the shear force These mechanoreceptors that are on cell surfaces and it's also very important. So I think it's another...so there's the lactate and it's a quick sort of...and it is. Like I've measured my lactate spikes up, you I don't get up to the levels that my husband I'm more like a 7, 8 millimolar, and he gets But after 20 minutes, I'm back down to 1 millimolar, So is there something with that lactate going think. There's another interesting component to that equation because I'm seeing increasing data but also people that have cancer. So there's a lot of work from Justin Brown, But the shear force and how it's affecting So basically people that have been diagnosed escapes the primary tumor site, goes into right? So then goes, you know, is able to travel whatever. So there's evidence that exercise, in general that gets your blood flow up. Basically those cancer cells die because they're forces, whereas normal cells are fine. But it seems to also, again, be a dose-dependent the more blood flow that's going quicker, And also blood flow to the brain too, right? I mean, just getting that shear force as well. So I think there is a lot of interest there It to me is a differentiating factor from duration. Obviously, there's a lot of compensation probably going for a longer duration, you know, period But I do see something unique and I'm, you I'm reading the literature, I'm trying to emerging, right? I mean, we don't really know. Dr. Gibala: But, you know, just on the topic a year coming out. It makes it very challenging to stay on top in my main area. So absolutely, you know, on the point about cardiovascular colleagues who are looking dilation, not in the brain, more in terms So parallels there, I think, in terms of some shear stresses and factors that are released, The other, I want to mention around lactate in that, you know, some people just have low Some people just have low maximal lactate We know it's definitely related to fiber composition, potential to drive up lactate. It's related to your enzymatic capacity to So the point I just want to make, maybe you're don't have some of the biological traits that high lactate levels. You know, what is your peak lactate level? Maybe you're already at it or very close to So don't beat yourself up too much there. Rhonda: Do you think wearing a continuous me identify? Dr. Gibala: Maybe, right? And so I, you know, I'm sure we're going to we measure things in that. But you know, I think a challenge with lactate finger prick sampling. There's variability in the monitors in that glucose monitors and the evolution of that, are combined with insulin pumps. Amazing, right? So, essentially, you have real-time monitoring up or down, the insulin can be potentiated I'm sure and I know people are working on point where an athlete would use a continuous I could see where that could have tremendous Whether everyone needs that, I don't know, some other metrics to at least get you reasonably But I can see why there would be tremendous and really dial it in to get an idea of their Rhonda: So, for sure. I'm not an athlete, but I'll tell you my interest glucose monitoring, I wore one for, I don't I was doing finger prick and, you know, I glucose levels were a certain number. And then, you know, sometimes I would do it as you mentioned. But after, I would go higher up and I'm like, I'm supposed to be like transporting more Like, this is ridiculous. And it wasn't until I had a continuous glucose down during the exercise and then gluconeogenesis, back up. But I wouldn't have known that without that And I wonder with the lactate because during glucose. So, it actually, you know, you have both of the glucose. And I wonder, it's like, oh, well, what's Is my brain consuming more of it or am I just Like, what...a continuous lactate monitor because at least maybe it is going higher a snapshot that I'm getting after my workout, Dr. Gibala: No, it's a great point, right? Even, you know, just monitoring venous levels, of production and utilization. And so, you know, if some...it's a really ask my students, is a high blood lactate a standpoint? And we tend to think, well, high blood lactates your pH is out of whack and everything like But you could also make the case, well, actually production, getting more out of the muscle the disturbance to your muscle pH is not going Now you've moved the lactate to where you the muscle. Again, it's just a...it's a good thinking I ask it to them to challenge their thought lactate. But maybe it's not all about just measuring Rhonda: Yeah. Let's dive into that for a minute. There's a couple of really good points, I A couple, one being, you know, this misconception you know, how...what's actually responsible you know, that fatiguing feeling, I guess, interval training, whether or not it can help, you know, regulating the osmolarity better. Dr. Gibala: Yeah. So, you know, certainly there...you can...certainly and high-intensity training and probably, in high-intensity exercise to engage in high-intensity A major adaptation there is an increase in to help get the lactate out of the muscle. And you're right, you know, lactic acid is into the lactate ion and the proton, the hydrogen with the changes in protons that we know can and things like that. So yeah, complicated physiology, but I think measure and certainly why, whether it's zone you know, whether it directly causes fatigue, surrogate marker or index of a lot of other So whether it relates to osmolarity or potassium the people that really study muscle fatigue the time. But lactate is still something that can be proxy for, you know, a global look at what And I think that's where my understanding into play. Rhonda: That makes sense. So we talked about some other performance interval training can play a role in muscle We're talking about the muscle fatigue, but...and be aerobic capacity. There's also the anaerobic. Is it the anaerobic output? Is that... Dr. Gibala: Yeah, anaerobic capacity, correct. And this gets back to this idea of, you know, you play a team sport and your role on the a ball, sprint as hard as you can, and then plays to recover, or you can then recover high power outputs that they can achieve repeatedly, And so those...when we talk about anaerobic accepted measure of anaerobic capacity is And that's because when we do an all-out 30-second a large majority of the energy is derived And so we can quantify power output in terms of that power is derived from anaerobic. And so, for example, you can measure, let's At the end of that test, you had 300 watts. So your peak power output on a VO2 max test Well, you can do a 30-second Wingate and achieve Elite athletes, elite power athletes, 1,500 So when we talk about someone who is exercising people...well, max is max. How can we exercise above VO2 max? Normally you're talking about its power outputs And when you're engaging in these short, hard power. Rhonda: So this kind of reminds me of...I've sort of pace or intensity and how...I mean, of a highly efficient workout. Now, what is that? Can you talk about that and then maybe compare interval training differences? Dr. Gibala: No, for sure. So again, you know, people think VO2 max will...and How can you be above max? But when we talk about VO2 max, that's maximum to that. So peak power, work peak at VO2 max. But sprint from danger pace is just that. So if you had to flee a burning building, from an oncoming car, it's well above VO2 But you might only have to do it for five So it would equate to top running speed, an You know, even a Wingate test is not true The highest power outputs during a Wingate So we're talking five to 10 second efforts. What's the highest work rate that you could What's the highest amount of ATP that you over a 5-, a 10-second effort at most? That's sprint from danger pace. And you know, if you're an athlete, you know, training. For many of us, three zones are enough. But when we talk about five and six zone, work rates or power outputs above VO2 max. And if you're the athlete looking to optimize at 150% of VO2 max, which you might be able at 250, 300% of VO2 max for five or 10 seconds, fine changes that could further support your Whereas for most of us, it doesn't really We don't need to get that level of sensitivity at these very, very high intensities or work Rhonda: So do you think there would... I mean, like, could there be a benefit for to incorporate some of that sprint? I mean, VO2 max benefit or, you know... Dr. Gibala: So I do. And again, this is not scientific, but it And it's the old investing analogy, right? And so you can hit a home run with a hot stock to spread it around, put your eggs in different And so I think when it comes to exercise training, that's it. Maybe do different types of training. And that's gonna... so whether you're someone really responds to moderate, we can't necessarily And so varying up your training, just like be the best approach. So should individuals engage in some short, I think, ideally speaking, yes, they should. There's even some recent evidence, I think for elite endurance athletes to incorporate And there's a series of studies that's come that when truly world-class level cyclists, elite, these are cyclists with starting VO2 And they randomized them to do either traditional matched 30 second sprints. And they sort of effort matched, so whichever the highest effort you could, and they were And what they found was the group that incorporated 20 minute time trial performance. And they actually had a small but significant And so it would suggest that maybe there might some call RSTs, repeated sprint training, Now, still relatively small, three week interventions, is a place for incorporating very vigorous Again, there's some people who shouldn't do But all things being equal, yeah, I think for general fitness. Rhonda: I wanna talk... Let's dive in at some protocols. And this is very... Like I'm sitting here getting very, very intrigued I mentioned, it's mostly on a Peloton stationary And it's, you know, again, I do a lot of the to back. And I'm thinking like maybe I should also and do a hill sprint. I hate them, I hate them, hate them, hate But I mean, you know, if I can get... If I can do it quick, it's still convenient. I just go outside and, you know, this isn't just something that I can conveniently do. But also maybe potentially get even greater That's of interest to me. I'm not an athlete, but... So are your thoughts... Do you think that I'm... Yeah. Dr. Gibala: So, you know, far be it from me But, you know, from what I've listened to you're doing, I actually think, you know, at a little bit lower intensity. You know, maybe you should be incorporating hard as you can go during those rather than training. Because arguably, you're already doing a ton Tabatas are basically sprint training. So I want to be careful here. You know, we could talk... Let's at least for now keep it modality-specific. So how you would train on a bike before we because that introduces some other wrinkles. But again, from what I understand and what of your training are these for you, all-out I'd suggest, you know, and I think Dr. Attia same thing in those 10-second recovery periods, to very low-intensity cycling. Because part of the thing with Tabata is you you've earned the break. Take it. Don't maintain the intensity too high in the But again, it sounds like much of your interval training given your Tabatas. We know there's data that suggests that all at the highest sustainable intensity are probably It's a pretty loaded statement, but I think longer intervals, two, three, four, five minutes. Again, highest workload you can and do four Now that's probably going to take you a 20-minute or I would encourage you to at least think interval training. Rhonda: Yeah, absolutely. How many times a week do you think? Dr. Gibala: Yeah, so again, my understanding and I think you go back and forth between Rhonda: Well, the resistance is on... And we'll talk about this as well, but it's We mentioned Tabata and then you're saying And it's funny because I had a question about What if you... Let's say the interval where you're going 80% is matched, but instead of doing the shorter ones. And it sounds to me like the longer one, there even if you're like, let's say a six minutes what you're talking about, which would be... Dr. Gibala: There is. Metabolically, the challenge is different. So this is where all interval training is And again, there's lots of variables there. Total volume in particular is important. But I think challenging your metabolic system Now, again, for you that if you're only doing are going to be 20 minutes, but maybe some with a little bit of warmup, cool down and That could still be a 20 minute workout, but intense training. Again, push as hard as you can go. So the power outputs that you're working at doing Tabatas. And maybe some days do a minute on, minute There's... Because that was a protocol that we've used repeated 10 times. Took about 25 minutes for individuals. But now there's studies that have looked at certainly in VO2 max is almost as good. So again, when we're doing 10 by one, we're but you get a lot of water out of five by So I would say vary up your intervals and up the physiological stress on the body. Now again, you're someone who says, I only love Tabatas. Okay. Like you're so far ahead of the game compared optimize or maybe that's going to give a different at least different. I can't guarantee you it's better, but I suspect fitness and that, the different challenge Rhonda: Well, this is great, Marty, because I have 20. And there's certainly some days I definitely Others maybe 10, you know, like today it was Marty's coming. I got to do something. But I think a lot of people are interested as you mentioned. What are your goals? Are you an athlete? Okay. Then 80, 20, like there's lots...I mean, you're But there's also people...like anything. So there's those people with like, I can't what I can out of the VO2 max and squeezing I just got to like...I got 10 minutes or, like, you know, four or five times a week. Or maybe some people like 20 minutes, I can But then, you know, I am interested in...I'm still being time efficient, you know. And that...I do think there's a large audience to be time efficient. I want to still really optimize for VO2 max. And there are really, I would say, pretty brain health. Of course, cardiovascular systems are very So that is really good. We talked about Tabata, we talked about 10 some of these longer ones, which were like And then your one minute, so was your one Dr. Gibala: So where the title of the book know, fast forward 15, 20 years of research, using the Wingate test. There's a long reasons for that. But we were doing these 30-second Wingates. Again, these are uncomfortable, people hate You need four or five minutes recovery at one. But the point is, four or five Wingates still And so it's still a significant time commitment. And so people were saying, well, you know, well, if it's taking you 30 minutes and you're up there. So really, how time efficient is it? And so we wanted to devise a protocol where And so that's where...and the other is, it's seconds of the Wingate that hurt the most. So basically, after about 15 seconds of a You've just produced so much lactate and your So if a lot of these responses are in part you only need 15 or 20 seconds to trigger So all that to say, we came up with a protocol total warm-up and cool-down, and some recovery So start to finish, the protocol took 10 minutes. And within that, there was one minute of very That was the one-minute workout. I think we've at least talked about it before, At the same time as we were sort of coming Metcalfe, Vollaard, they've done a lot of They termed what they called reduced exertion theme where they were using a 10-minute start 10 to 20, only one to two 10 to 20-second So all of this variations on a theme where intense exercise in a 10-minute time course. And we've done a number of studies now looking you know, it can improve VO2 max...many of it to at least very similar extent as more that takes five times longer, five times the Rhonda: That's a really big interest, I mean, So I mean, that's...for me and, I mean, people I mean, it's like, you know. So I guess the moral of the story here is a way do matter to some respect because...and what I'm doing every day was a very specific harder and that really does make sense and was like, I just need to hear Marty tell me. So thank you. You mentioned some of the other protocols How does that, you know, how would you say training? I mean, with respect to maybe some of these Dr. Gibala: So again, like, you know, first Whether it's HIIT depends on your definition know, I really like this idea, this notion it covers all the bases. It's just alternating more intense, less intense High intensity for many is 80% or higher heart done this but to try and...because our first Which is much of the field at the time, everything But you know, five minutes at 80% of VO2 max about from a 20-second to battle workout. So at least to try and distinguish the interval move to try and distinguish HIIT, which is sprint type training, which is much closer So you know, I would say REHIT is absolutely It's probably closer to sprint type training of the power outputs. You know, you're working 10, 20 seconds, but you're generating and much higher than VO2 So... Rhonda: Oh, so I was completely confused about going, oh, this is less than 80%. Dr. Gibala: So the reduced exertion, it was It feels a lot easier than a 30-second Wingate know 30-second Wingates hurt and all of the and even the nausea and dizziness sometimes If you're doing 15 or 10 seconds, much of So the exertion comes down from the metabolic terms of the power outputs on the bike. Just to take that one step further, Dr. Ed big name in the field of exercise physiology. Dr. Coyle's recent work is looking at four-second them. And it's really just a variation on a theme. And Dr. Coyle's point would be, you can work people can put out extremely high power outputs Then you give them, I think it's 12 seconds And so the point there is these very short, feeling, the perceptions of discomfort when from danger pace. And you know, there's a lot of critics certainly interval training is doomed to failure as anything above lactate threshold, it hurts. It makes people uncomfortable. They're less likely to do it. But there's a whole other group in the exercise a minute, continuous high intensity efforts, from intermittent high intensity efforts. And so there's a lot of, certainly a lot of but I think still a lot of good work to be to different types of interval training. It's too simplistic to just go, well, sprint it hurts because now there's evidence to show When people rate this, they don't find it it out to claim that it is. Rhonda: So the reduced exertion interval training, training is you still... They're messing around with more of the work still going very hard, but your perceived were doing a wingate or sprint interval training. And so at the end of the day, it really goes isn't necessarily the best way to gauge how going hard on your four or five seconds, you And then, you know, it's just... This is great. I think this is very clear to me because, That must be why I'm so drawn to Tabatas as versus three minutes. I mean, one minute is hard. Like, it's definitely going to be different or whatever Twitter polemics that you're talking and the whole movement of you have to suffer And, you know, so there are people that are There are people that do wanna suffer and There's some days where you just don't, right? There's just some days where you're not gonna But there are days where some people are very Dr. Gibala: No, and, you know, to be clear, who are very careful methodological people. You know, they... So I respect the scientists on both sides But yeah, to your point, my sense is when duration work, the traditional way of thinking It doesn't fit as well, right? Like classic Borg RPE scales are, you know, correlated with, you know, young fit individuals heart rate of 200. That's where that rating scale comes in. And so, you know, the more intense, especially heart rate, the higher the perceived effort. But we just see such a disconnect between I'll give you a very specific example. We've done a study looking at that 10 by one So these are 10 one minute efforts at objectively of maximum in older individuals, 63 years On a 10 point rating scale, they started out They eventually got to about an eight. And so the average RPE was about a seven out very high power outputs at very high percentages So it's just a striking example. In our initial sprint studies, the one minute first ones we were saying, go as hard as you And we, and in those we were using a 20 point Because now if we ask them to continue that to 20. But since they're so short, so yeah, to your Perceived effort. I don't want to say it goes out the window, to these very short, very hard intermittent Rhonda: So where do you think, let's say someone to start be more of these like shorter, like Dr. Gibala: It's a really good question. And this is where, you know, we haven't really we'll get into it. But like, a standard thing that we'll just So wherever your starting point is, your own little bit more uncomfortable than usual for And so, you know, I use this analogy all the If your only exercise is walking around the it's literally for the next two light posts, and then I'm going to back off. So I feel a little bit more out of breath. I can feel I'm breathing a little bit more. I can't talk to my partner like I generally It can be as simple as that. Just get out of your comfort zone. If you're someone who's already dialed in of that, it's like, hey, get your heart rate heart rate there, you know, or rather than as hard as you can. You're not going to be liking me, I know, But it's going to be a very different challenge And this is where I think that the more empowering it doesn't matter if you're magically getting tell you you should be at. It's just start with the alternating pattern Start to dial it in maybe a little bit more But as a starting point, just get out of your a few This kind of reminds me of the, was it the Dr. Gibala: Absolutely, yes. You know, excellent data and these are, you randomized controlled trials looking at interval including in individuals with type 2 diabetes, were randomly assigned to an interval walking the interval and continuous walkers matched intensity. So you can imagine the continuous walkers, 65% of maximum. The interval walkers got that up to 70 and So we're just talking gentle hills and valleys. After four months, the interval walkers, greater reduction in or greater change in body composition, in individuals with type 2 diabetes, greater using continuous glucose monitoring. So it's not to say that continuous walking I think it's just a little bit of evidence pace even slightly, we're not talking sprint Rhonda: And this kind of relates to something training for maybe elderly and maybe infirm, incorporate interval training into their lifestyle. And also then like contraindication. So you mentioned like maybe some people, is training is not good for and how would you Dr. Gibala: Yeah, so and this, I always make the literature, I'm not a medical doctor, I read work like that, I try and stay informed And certainly for my book, I interviewed people who writes many of the guidelines around this But first point I always make is that interval in many different flavors. So second point is that many more people than from interval training. And there's just now, there's hundreds and training in individuals with cardiometabolic type 2 diabetes, older individuals, people And a lot of this is not new. You can find studies going back to the 70s at interval training in individuals with heart So the notion that people could, you know, could engage and benefit from interval training But there remains immense debate. And I think it's, we're all reading the same And some people, again, I'm talking about get to a certain level before they recommend So for example, high-intensity interval training, and certainly in Scandinavian countries. It's, you know, much of the pioneering work cardiovascular disease was done in Norway back to the calculator that we talked about But there, I think it's much more generally training, where I think in North America, And so that's not necessarily good or bad. I think it's the experts, the cardiologists, at the evidence and saying, you know, some on that. In terms of risk, and again, I'm not an MD that more vigorous intensity exercise can the exercise bout itself. I think there's fairly strong evidence for I was reading some of the latest guidelines, point. You know, and especially in more deconditioned silent underlying risk factors, and so we everyone can do interval training and it's low when you look at events per hours engaged You know, both moderate and vigorous type the absolute rates remain relatively low, in risk that's higher with vigorous exercise Now, of course, after the event, relative remain sedentary. So, you know, I think the old adage of the sedentary is absolutely true, right? And so when I, it's a striking phrase that for the book was, you know, if your choice HIIT. If the choice is between HIIT and moderate you might have some underlying factors and engage in some moderate as some preconditioning And then on the, you know, who is absolutely There are some very clearly defined no-goes shouldn't be engaging vigorous intensity. Exercise unstable angina would be another Rhonda: Yeah. It sounds like a lot of the, I mean, things you would already have a cardiologist if you Dr. Gibala: The last point I would make is, cardiologists, you know, we think an exercise or red light to engage in exercise. And certainly in our studies, where individuals and that, everyone does a 12 lead ECG stress But you know, I naively thought, okay, the reading it, is going to come back and say, light, unable. What we found was a lot of yellow lights. Maybe, you know, this person might be contraindicated risk. And so of course we defer to safety. And so even those yellow lights, generally into the study, which is no doubt influencing But I always wonder, I'm like, so are these doing nothing? And is that in itself raising their risk? So it's, you know, even, you know, the standard, get clearance before you change or engage one way or the other in terms of you may deal We might see it in a 20-year-old in my lab You can't absolutely rule out these things. Rhonda: I think also mentioning the walkers, was really good because, you know, it also have to go to your 80% max heart rate for And perhaps people that are older, people people that are untrained and are starting It's never too late to start. They can start by, you know, by doing, you out or even submaximal, right? I mean, just going a little bit above what sort of conversation is. Dr. Gibala: And, you know, I don't think that, are already aware of this, but I think still public, they hear the word HIIT or interval this as hard as you can go, all out, breakneck And I think that's a disservice. And again, hopefully this more encompassing idea of hills and valleys, right? And the other point to that is, I'm not name have thought about this for a long time. I also interviewed for the book, Carl Foster, And when he first heard, you know, as a scientist that was doing interval training in cardiac a conference and he said, oh, how many people And he was relaying that story to a cardiac And the nurse, he said, sort of tapped him silly. And she said, look at this patient in the session. They already engaged in interval training they can't get to a continuous moderate pace. So what they do is they innately interval They get out of their car, they take a few They take a few more steps, they take a break. It's a bit like climbers on Everest, right? And so, again, that's a more empowering message, You're just starting out, that's okay. You can train like elite athletes have trained. We just have to set the workout at an approximate you know, oh my goodness, people are destined in continuous moderate exercise for a period are so low. So it's a bit of, you know, the behavioral I think there's a lot of that we can do with So for those individuals who just think it's it's a reframing of it for them. Rhonda: Yeah. And also, again, modifying the work to rest that it's like, oh, I have to go all out for But oh, what about 10 seconds? You know, what about 10 seconds? So there's a lot of ways to sort of modify What about resistance intensity training? Dr. Gibala: It goes a different way. You know, some people call it functional training, training. You know, I think it can still count. You know, for a lot of resistance training, you know, we're talking about now very high sometimes. By its definition, it's interval training. We just never really think about that. But so I think certainly bodyweight style traditional calisthenics and that, that can So I think, again, using this generic term aerobic style interval training or resistance And again, bodyweight style interval training is interval resistance training. And I think it can have tremendous benefit. You know, it's often a sort of a middle ground. You're not going to see the gains in strength weightlifting exercise, and you're not necessarily would have with a traditional well-structured a lot of both right in the middle. You know, especially if, you know, we're talking you also keep recovery periods relatively You know, you engage in that for 10 to 20 rate up to about 80% of maximum, but you've increasing functional strength as well. I think it's a tremendous way for people to Rhonda: It sounds like a lot of CrossFit kind Dr. Gibala: Yeah, absolutely. You know, now maybe not necessarily as intense absolutely that style of functional training, can be extremely beneficial, I think. And in a time-efficient way, you get strength Rhonda: Can you get any muscle mass gains, training? Let's say if you're on a stationary bike and Dr. Gibala: Yeah, so that one really depends And so if you're already relatively fit and not going to see massive changes in muscle or anything like that, even with fairly intensive Now if you're someone just starting out, you who is going to get on the bike and do some not talking all-out sprint training, they You know, and again, are we talking mitochondrial, protein synthesis where we're seeing an increase very, very low, then I think even aerobic-style But otherwise, you know, once you get to a generally speaking. Rhonda: Yeah, okay. Because I crank my resistance up really high you know, like I'm like, this has to be something Dr. Gibala: Well, you know, you look at Tour Like I mean, they're amazingly muscled, now How much of that is...that was covered in be there? But you know, I think it's not nothing, but protein synthesis with some more traditional lot, lot less volume of work. Rhonda: Can you just lift? I mean, like, can you, you know, like, let's like higher intensity resistance training Can you just get by with just doing that? I mean... Dr. Gibala: Yeah, again, right, compared to But you know, so like, I don't...only doing practiced, I think you're definitely leaving fitness and health benefits and all of that. I think it's a really good question of, you about, the classic individual, you know, type with responsibilities, family, job, things train, if they only did high-intensity functional exercise, I could see a lot of value in that, gains in strength. You know, coming back to what we've talked a week they can do, maybe two of those are training and two or more interval training elliptical, things like that. You know, if you only have three, I'm not getting some variation in ideally, but yeah, training. Rhonda: Yeah. What about the combination of aerobic training effect like you've heard about where if I conjunction with my lifting, I'm going to I mean, at least that's what I interpreted Dr. Gibala: Yeah. So, you know, I think where the evidence is, and meta-analyses, what they're going to say maybe it's there to a greater extent with And certainly if you do it within the same But if you look at the work right now, there's running is not. There's some evidence to say actually running's So there's no clear answer. I think the bottom line is there might be especially when they do it very, very close it's probably relatively small. It's probably relatively negligible in the But if you're someone who's really looking to leave a few hours in between your training Okay. Rhonda: Yeah, the interest had kind of sparked it, but also from, I think it was Stu's recent with resistance training, and it was like, effect in some regard to blood flow or something So it was, you know. Certainly, lot of things with interval training, you other, but, you know, I think that, and of these studies, some good, some less good, the field is it's probably not a big deal half an hour today, I can do both. I can't split this up because I can't train Well, then do both, right? But again, if you want to eke out every bit little bit of time, a couple hours at least. Rhonda: Okay, all right. The guidelines that are set, you kind of, a big question that people ask all the time, set by a variety of committees. It seems like there's a lot of consensus in aerobic exercise, anywhere between 150 to exercise, and that's 75 to 150 minutes a week, Where do you think, in your opinion, does that equation? Is there a new timeframe, and let's say, for or also for people wanting to also get that, I do want to be closer to that elite sort So for those kind of people, is there a guideline, that? Dr. Gibala: So there's a ton there. So first thing, you know, let's remember, not exercise guidelines, so we're talking You're right, there is general international It hasn't changed that much. If anything, it's just increased the number U.S. guidelines for Americans, the WHO, World and they're exactly what you just said, 150 doing it vigorous. And how is that defined? Well, moderate is defined in an absolute sense to 5.9 metabolic equivalents, or 5 to 6 on subjectively is you can talk, but you can't So you're exercising with a partner, you could but you couldn't sing. Vigorous effort is above 6 METs, 7 or 8 on couple of words. So you couldn't carry on a conversation, say So that's sort of the subjective and objective those are fairly consistent. Now, you know, American College of Sports there, at least in terms of percentages of generally where we are, moderate to vigorous. And those are for what are deemed substantial It's not saying that's the best way to increase data from a wide variety of sources that if activity you can expect substantial health things. It's not saying it's ideal either, that's a caveat that more is better. So you can wring a little bit more out of And there's not a, you know, there's, the used to be this guideline that said you have 10 minutes. And that was removed because it was never And so at least that change, I think has opened counts. And it was partly, I think, some recognition that very short efforts can be associated markers. So the guidelines are just that. They're suggestions or recommended amounts physical activity. They're not saying this is the way that elite their performance. So I think we really need to recognize what And the last point of this, my understanding, tend to be conservative because ideally, they We know is associated with a lower risk for developing cardiovascular disease and many And so we just don't have anywhere close to training. We may eventually. So where does HIIT fit in the big picture? I think, and again, I spoke to people for Dr. I-Min Lee, who's engaged with some of And the point was, well, HIIT already fits And I said, well, is it only the HIIT efforts So if you do a 20 minute HIIT session, but the exercise her point would be, no, you count Or another example of interval training is I like to play ice hockey. My wife is a soccer player. And so in those, for parts of the game, you're And for the parts you're not, moderate or So with those, if you engage in a one hour every other shift, you can probably count So I think interval training in HIT already And certainly it would fall within the guidelines Will we ever see the guidelines say, 150 to 30 to 60 of very vigorous exercise. And you know, a new break point maybe, but will wanna see a lot more evidence until we're Or, you know, will there be some acknowledgement engage in VILPA-like efforts for five minutes You know, 30 minutes of VILPA-like efforts this. You know, the UK guidelines explicitly refer The WHO and the US guidelines really do not, So it's gonna continue to evolve, but I know that's probably the best perspective that Rhonda: Yeah, I think that's good. And I do think that alluding to the VILPA you're talking about, you know, to some, I to get 30 to 40% reduction in all-cause mortality I mean, it's not the 80% of the, you know, had the highest VO2 max. But, and for that, you know, you may need But for some people that are just generally or something like that, maybe, you know, doing Dr. Gibala: And that, you know, cause you're, alluded to it earlier, whether we like it is, how little can I get away with? And the guidelines don't really address that, Or at least there's no grudging acknowledgement aren't gonna do this. So at the very least, do this, right? There's been no movement on that. If anything, we're just encouraging people So it is maybe a gap, or at least we should there for a lot of people. Rhonda: Yeah. Another sort of, I think, research gap is And it's definitely of interest to many, many So acknowledging the research gaps, I'm still are any. I know there's also, I think, some misconceptions population also. So it'd be nice to kind of even touch on some One being, postmenopausal women, is HIIT good On the bad side, some women are worried about Do you have any thoughts on doing HIIT for Dr. Gibala: So specifically on the cortisol reviews, meta-analyses, the studies vary a individuals need to worry about chronic increases cause them damage. Clearly, cortisolle go up acutely during exercise. But I think there's some evidence now that that practice interval training, basal cortisol So I don't think it needs to be a major concern, that we can see with this type of approach. So that's on the cortisol issue specifically. Rhonda: Yeah, and that, I mean, given all the muscle, skeletal muscle, the brain, I it'd be a hard sell to say, oh no, it's not I hate, you know. Dr. Gibala: And very different is, you know, cancer, is there's ongoing work, some really at HIIT in individuals with that condition, On the sex-based differences, you know, writ some outcomes? Yes, I think they're subtle. At least the evidence to this point would probably subtle differences, but we do need You know, are there massive differences between, or oral contraceptive users versus naturally Again, maybe some, but probably pretty subtle. So that doesn't mean they're not important, in most outcomes. But absolutely, we just, you know, need more We need more research on diversity of responsiveness, males and females, you know, and you've talked You know, it's an active area of research so I'll give you a very specific example. Some of our research right now is looking max with very short sprint-type interval training, And so we know that that increases VO2 max, And actually some of the work would suggest we thought about or at least the cardiac output So I have a PhD student immersed in this area goes up, stroke volume was up, cardiac output looked like there were some differences between So we did a secondary analysis, wasn't appropriately doesn't look like the women are responding So then we repeat the whole study using more for menstrual cycle phase and properly expressing And we were basically unable to replicate see any evidence of a sex-based difference, around a little bit around our conversation variation in responsiveness. And so at least right now, to my mind, in to specifically sprint-type training, it might and it might just be there's tremendous variability And in the almost 40 participants in the combined identified as males that responded to a greater do with biological sex. And I think that's where a lot, many areas very clear differences, but I think that's And the vast majority of studies have not systematic comparisons between sexes. Rhonda: Right, yeah. And also I think differences in, at least much sleep do I get? Things that'll also affect my ability to perform, So yeah, I mean, there's a lot of gaps in cycle, that's also a question I get a lot. And I think the reality of it is that 20 to menstruation are iron deficient, and they They don't even know about it, they're not their dietary intake of iron, they're not And maybe that alone also would affect some, And that's- you talk to these female athletes, they're when my race date is. I know I have to peak for this day in four Maybe you can structure your training around that's just the reality, obviously, for women And so, yes, we need to know if there's some it doesn't really matter. It's just one more thing that potentially on the day, and you try and control all the to peak as best you can on the day of your Rhonda: Does high-intensity interval training Do you know? Dr. Gibala: This is where, you know, it goes, us to think about mode-specific when we're I think that's where it depends, right? And so we know that more higher impact events tend to, you know, lay down more bone. And so, you know, if we're talking high-intensity things are very different, right? Are you running on concrete? Are you running outside in beautiful trails? All of those things matter. You know, the flip side to that is if we talk do high-intensity training, I'm gonna increase Well, you know, I'm someone with classic left I just tore a meniscus in my right knee playing that knee soon. I can engage in very vigorous interval training I can't, and I don't run anymore. So, you know, HIIT training on the bike, no Any sort of running outside is excruciating Rhonda: So joint problems in general, people Dr. Gibala: I do, yes. And, you know, we know certainly, and again, you know, talking to experts and just trying you know, we know that people who have joint one of the best things that you can do is And it's obviously frustrating advice for be active, but it hurts when I'm active. And so moving towards less weight bearing the joint and maybe, you know, help with the forces. So cycling is a fantastic exercise for individuals engage in fairly vigorous activity without your knees in this case. Rhonda: Yeah, that's great. I know there's quite a few people that are any type of high intensity interval training So- right? But- may actually be great for the bones. I mean, it's impactful and you can do, certainly rope as well. What about, so there's, we talk about like some of these like misconceptions, I guess. And you kind of touched on this a little bit people that shouldn't engage in high intensity or angina, what was it? That heart problem. The fact that doing high intensity interval or just even like elite athletes in general, a higher tendency for AFib and coronary calcification, risk of, you know, cardiovascular related Is there a way to reconcile those things? Dr. Gibala: So again, not expert, but my read really good reviews that have come out recently. And again, we could drop those in the show but the, you know, the old Latin phrase, the There's definitely evidence that individuals very high volume exercise may be at greater referred to, heart issues. To my read and my understanding, while there's effect or mechanistic basis hasn't been definitively And the other is, it's been pointed out that there and you see examples of this, it doesn't data, which is still that, you know, lifetime years of life compared to others. So I think it's an issue that still really And probably the safest advice would be, you right? Whether it's the U-shape or the the J-shaped And if you're on, you know, this is, for the but, you know, if you are that extreme exerciser, that may carry some increased cardiovascular Rhonda: Yeah. So one more oddball question before my last like hypoxic training, like, have you heard HIIT or? Dr. Gibala: So my sense would, yes, I've definitely You know, clearly when you move to more intensive is through your mouth. So it's really hard to engage in vigorous breathing or mouth breathing. You're gonna compromise your performance. It may feel really hard, you know, because Whether it's beneficial, I'm not convinced I, you know, I think the data around blood and there's some really, really interesting You know, you can make the case that maybe or diaphragm muscle or that, but getting back not a pulmonary limitation. It's a heart limitation. And so strategies that are really trying to So, you know, if people wanna try it, fine. I don't think there's tremendous evidence Rhonda: What's the interesting thing about Is it... Dr. Gibala: Well, you know, like I think, some ongoing work, I guess that's about it. And, you know, this isn't our work, but I'm exercise and training in very, very high level changes in performance related metrics or And yeah, so like I say, that work is ongoing. The hard thing with these is it's, you can't training, right? Like many of these interventions that we've who's completely blinded to the intervention But, you know, the idea of blood flow restricted to joint issues, maybe working at a lower the metabolic stresses induced with blood some interesting work there, I think. So, and applications. Rhonda: Where do you see, this is my last Where do you see the future of, well, specifically and, you know, like the training methodologies, you know, how we can define good studies to mitochondrial biogenesis and these important for the athletes too. But where do you see the field going? Dr. Gibala: Yeah, so a whole bunch of levels And I think it, you know, what's the most, right? What's the most important, education, health, But I think given the pervasiveness of physically work that needs to be done there around, is What are the best strategies to encourage behavior, but could brief vigorous physical non-exercise physical activity, could we have that will finally encourage people to do that. So I think that's a massive area that needs Number two is, you know, clearly I'm a proponent that we haven't done, or just they're not trials, making very good comparisons between type training, with proper what we call non-inferiority of, if there was a difference, it doesn't So maybe that's half a met or 0.2 of a met, So it's like, if we show that margin of non-inferiority, We can basically call these things the same, date are relatively small. And so there might be real biological or health sizes just aren't large enough to be able And so certainly in my own work, you know, final phase of my career is, I think we've work. We've mainly done relatively small scale proof thinking a lot more about rigorous research And I think the field of exercise science moving towards proper sample size estimates, so we don't have systemic bias creeping into So I think that's a very big area of, maybe look the same, and a lot more groups collaborating, You know, being engaged in some of this work that's where we need to go to, to get to the the physical activity guidelines might say, To make some decisions there. You know, probably less important for the training for athletes, right? Which is, you know, invariably, almost all So, you know, if Kipchoge trained slightly slightly lower? You know, probably not. You know, who am I to question Kipchoge's with this. Like, we don't really know. All these experiments of N of one, and elite but we don't have these large, you know, interventional the best way to train. We have some of them, we touched on them, But if you're interested in elite performance, but probably the final one would be technological There's just been huge advancements, obviously things like that. You know, continuous lactate monitoring in Will that really move the needle, or, you these markers? Maybe, you know, and also data and activity You know, the ubiquity of smartphones, and Getting back to the behavior, you know, can and things like that? Like, is that a viable strategy, or is that, world? So, these sort of translational studies that into real world settings, so that we can truly to efficacy studies, I think is where the Rhonda: Awesome. Well, Marty, thank you so much for taking with me today. I mean, I learned quite a bit, and I know you know, everything that we talked about I know, so we talked about your book, The Amazon, I mean, anywhere, right? Dr. Gibala: E-book form, hard copy, yeah, Rhonda: And then you also have a website, MartinGibala.com. MartinGibala.com, and then a Twitter. Your Twitter handle is @gibalam? Dr. Gibala: Gibala M, so G-I-B-A-L-A-M, so Rhonda: Okay, awesome. So people can go to those places to learn your website, your book, and also follow you Dr. Gibala: Yeah, absolutely. You know, really, I started the website just can learn about our research, you can learn, to the book, links to Dr. Phillips and I have called Hacking Exercise for Health. You know, and let me just add one last thing translation, science communication, it's huge, And in writing the book, one of the things science, we wanna control everything, and research papers, you get a little controversial get whacked, right? Whereas I think when you're boiling down or public or other knowledge users, and we don't of give our best guesses, not move outside evidence right now. It's not perfect. And so the way you do a podcast interview very different from how you write a scientific There's some people who will only write scientific That's fine, we all do what you're comfortable right? Because that, many of these things are still and so science communication, knowledge translation And so thanks for this opportunity and the I think it's tremendously important. Rhonda: Thank you so much. And it's nice to know that other scientists that can also happen out of podcasts as well. So it's been a pleasure, Marty, and thank the podcast today. Thank you very much.