(funky music) - Damn, Bloomberg is (beep)ed up! (audience laughing) - Damn, Truman is (beep)ed up! (audience laughing) - Man, Lincoln is (beep)ed up. - Son, white folks in Shh, they comin'! (classical music) - Good evening. I'm Phillip Holston. In 1954, the United States With the bus boycotts in Montgomery, and Brown versus the Board of Education still under deliberation, the social climate was changing rapidly. It was in this context that made history when he of Hartsfield, Alabama. - I remember it was a hot day, and I was working the double Between shifts, I went outside and bought from a boy that used Little did I know that would change my life forever. (audience laughing) Not long after lunch, I felt, uh, a bubblin' in my A bubble that, to me, but the early stages of mud butt. (audience laughing) I had to take a dump. I had to take a dump immediately. (audience laughing) - The closest colored bathroom was located in the basement of the steel - Oh, that toilet was disgusting. Wasn't fit for Christian butt cheeks. My only options, at that time, were I could either go which I couldn't do, that was (audience laughing) or I could use the white restroom. It was risky, but so was mud butt. - Mr. Holloway proceeded and take what would be known as one of the most significant After the historic dump began, one of Holloway's entered the restroom. He immediately called the local police, who were being followed (Holloway farting) - Come outta there, Holloway. - With all due respect, I got the mud butt. While I was on the toilet, sprayed me with water, good Lord, it's mud butt! Finally, I just let them - Book him. Desecration of a white Here's your evidence. (audience exclaiming) - I can make about three, if you want, sir. - Cyrus was charged with and faced nine years in prison. Word spread quickly around Hartsfield and the nation at large. Civil rights activists descended on this tiny Alabama - My brothers and sisters, we are gathered here today to discuss matters of the cacadookie and the stinky stinky. - Yes, yes sir! - I have a question to Why can't my turd float next to yours? (men cheering) Our voices will be heard! - It was the first and largest the nation's first (beep) in. - No, my brothers and sisters, do not run! Turn your butt cheeks and let them clean your butt cheeks with the (indistinct). This is a good thing, - The (beep) in made national news. The American Legal and took it all the way (protestors chanting) - In the case of Holloway the Supreme Court rules (courtroom cheering) (gavel slamming) that no matter what your feces will be brown, except for the clay colored ones and of course, the spinach green. (audience laughing) And no matter what the hue of your poo, it will undoubtedly stink. Good day. - By the time they read mud butt was calling. I suppose I was happy about winning. I think what I was most happy about was that I could get and use the toilet. How you doin', Miss Pippin? (Holloway screams) I just remember going in that bathroom and taking the first free dump that I'd ever taken in my life. - Dang! - A beautiful dump. (Holloway farting) As a matter of fact, the - Ima gonna lay down my burden Down by the river side Down by the river side Down by the river side Ima gonna lay down my burden Down by the river side Gonna study war no more (choir humming) - It is all just a matter and the cacadookie. (choir humming) - I'm Phillip Holston. Good night. Well, I ain't gonna study war no more - Welcome to the &quot;World's Greatest Wars.&quot; We've reviewed the Civil War, World War II, and the Gulf War. But now, we turn your attention to a classic war that on American soil. For the last 20 years, a violent war has been waged the 19th street Gangsters The war began in 1982 over But not just any basketball shoes, these were Nikes. &quot;'ey, dog, 'ey,&quot; Earl &quot;the after a rival member of General Cornrow Wallace, made - 'ey! 'ey dog, 'ey! You stepped on my sneaker, man! - [Jeff] The Snake knew then that he would have to fight him. (The Snake screaming) (men shouting, fighting) (Cornrow bird calling) The Snake was down, but not out. He returned to the crew's clubhouse and rallied the troops with - Some work-ass trick just and poured Morton's salt all over me! Are y'all ready to ride? Ra ra! - (in unison) Ra ra! - Let's ride on these fools - [Jeff] Wasting no time, the crew commenced stomping to let them know who ran the projects. General Cornrow Wallace pulled out a gun, unheard of, at that (gun fires) A resident called 911 immediately. Police showed up promptly, Cornrow was sentenced to His time there would be His roommate in jail was a who regaled Cornrow with to make cocaine. - It's called crack! It's great! And it's so simple to make! All you need is some cocaine and I think I tasted egg and cinnamon. Whoever sells it is gonna be rich! - Cornrow immediately alerted via a letter. - [Cornrow] Yo, y'all (beep) need to cook up cocaine with baking powder and sell it. All the best, Corn Roll-up. PS, - They immediately started and selling it on what little They had made hundreds in mere weeks. In no time, Snake and The money made fueled what between the two groups. (guns firing) (dynamite blasting) The violence escalated every year, finally peaking in 1989, when the 19th street Gangsters at the Battle of the Kool Moe Dee Concert, which took place at a Newly released from prison, revered general, Cornrow The funeral was somber and filled with Cornrow's The funeral passed without incident. But what the crew did next The crew went to the graveyard and dug up General Cornrow Wallace's body, absconding with it to their hideout. The incident was videotaped and sent to members of - Hey, fools! We've got your leader! Look at us! High five! Look at these pretty clothes there. Look at his shoes! Look (audience laughing) (Snake singing) (body thuds) - Tensions between the gangsters and the 19th street crew rage to this day. Most of the original members of the gangs are either dead or in jail, but we did speak to one member: Earl &quot;the Snake&quot; White. Ironically, he now works in a strip mall on the exact location where the Cardinal Projects once stood. - All right! knowing what you do now, - Yeah, it was a tragedy. Can you repeat the question? (audience laughing) - For the History Good night. (dignified music) - Good evening, I'm Kent Wallace. Since it's inception, Hollywood has often But is it racist? And if so, who are the culprits? Frontline embarked on a journey and what we uncovered may shock you. For years, Rin Tin Tin was for his TV exploits. - Who stole the silver? (dog barking) - (indistinct)? Good boy, Rin! - [Kent] His acts of heroism and undying loyalty to his That is, until recent This is Justin Wilkes, a security guard in Montgomery, Alabama. For three decades, he has against the canine star. - That dog that you call I saw the show. I saw the dog. I said, &quot;where do I know this dog from?&quot; (audience laughing) (indistinct) 1957 riot - So you're saying that's you in the classic civil rights footage? - Okay, see, that's a What you callin' classic I call footage of me getting bit on my ass by a German Shepard. (audience laughing) And if you would like to see, there's actually bite marks - [Kent] We hunted down the dental records of the dog who played Rin Tin Tin. A few days later, Mr. Wilkes returned, and a canine dental expert with his scar. - This is, uh, most definitely - What I say? (indistinct) - That opened the floodgates. In subsequent weeks, more African Americans came forward with similar accusations breaking decades of silence. - Mr. Ed. I worked with him for two years, that disgusting, bigot-ass horse! - Mr. Ed, take four. - Oh, I better get outta here! - Took ya long enough, nigger. (bottle breaks) Ima cut you, do you hear me? - Loyd, get her away from me! - [Henrietta] I'm gonna cut you! - [Kent] There were also many rumors of his off-camera activities. Frontline was sent, anonymously, this picture with this Dear Frontline, this is Mr. Ed. But worse than Mr. Ed, worse even than Rin Tin Tin, were the accusations lobbed at Flipper. - Flipper? I know him as James, The Nigger-Hating Dolphin. That's what they used to call him. They used to come by the pool and they throw him in the pool. You know, to scare the black people. - It's James, the Nigger-Hating Dolphin! (people shouting, screaming) - Shocking. Unfortunately, none of the to offer a rebuttal. However, the estate of Mr. we deeply regret the way Mr. by the Klan. If it's any consolation, his best friend was the Black Stallion. (audience laughing) Next time on Frontline, we expose racist Hollywood automobiles and hear disturbing audio from the hit TV show, Night Rider. - Puerto Ricans are lazy, Michael. (audience laughing) - I'm Kent Wallace. Good night. (hip hop music) - Damn, Bloomberg is (beep)ed up! (audience laughing) - Man, Carter is (beep)ed up! (audience laughing) - Damn, Truman is (beep)ed up! (audience laughing) - Man, Lincoln is (beep)ed up. - Son, white folks in Shh, they comin'! (audience laughing) - Man, the Chief is (beep)ed up. Hey y'all, look! There's a boat with Y'all wait here, I'm Man, I (beep)ed up. (audience laughing)