SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk Three o'clock in the morning: It's not as brutal as it is today. In less than eight minutes, the 24 police students of Police Commissioner Kathrin Schall should be ready for action. For young people it is the first night exercise ever. Teaching group 44: Doors open! Get ready! Get out of your deep sleep, into your emergency suit! The first year with the Federal Police is tough. Not all of them withstand the barrack-like drill: one fifth throws down or fails the intermediate examination. I don't have the time to knock on everyone's door and stroke their heads and say: &quot;Wake up!&quot;. Michelle Demetriades is a single mom with exam anxiety. We will observe the 26-year-old more closely in the first year of training, as will Berzan Basibuyuk. The 16-year-old German Kurd has big goals, dreams of advancement and already sees himself in a leading position. Not all of teaching group 44 will survive the first year with the federal police. We are receiving the weapons now. Then you will be given a brief position, a brief order. Then the mission starts. Without brushing your teeth, without breakfast. So it was really seconds now. I just combed my hair quickly. I don't have anything to drink either. I'm not that fit yet, but that's about to come. I'm sure. A bus has dropped the group at a piece of forest. Equipped with cards, they are supposed to track down a helpless person. Orientation without a GPS cell phone. We're only supposed to do three pages. Jackets? - No, one side. Go a little way! Teaching group leader Kathrin Schall stays in the background and comments. The police students have to give commands themselves. They have to shout out loud, for everyone! - Advance the police chain! I think it's nice how the students do it here. It is now a big task for him to take care of the whole teaching group. They were taught something. You are also happy if this is implemented now and you can give her the second year of service with a clear conscience. You know they'll manage. That is the goal. On a day like this, you are always excited as a teaching group leader. Still, I'm more excited for the teaching group. Of course they are afraid that they will tip over, that they will do something wrong. Of course they always look at you. Then they notice: &quot;Something doesn't fit.&quot; Then the eyes go straight to me. &quot;Didn't she see it at all?&quot; But I always see everything. Such exercises are not planned for the first year of training. Kathrin Schall also organizes these extras. She wants to convey an authentic sense of commitment to her proteges . That goes down well. So are they all there? Well, how was it, the first chain of searches? Cool! It's difficult in a piece of forest, right? The second group in particular had it a bit more difficult. You always stay on the same level. You have to report in good time that the others are waiting. Unfortunately, I didn't report that in time. All good. That's why we practice it. So, for every two halves. I have sausage here. There's not much time left for breakfast. Lessons begin in two and a half hours. It's 15 kilometers back to school on foot. The former Bundeswehr barracks is located in Diez, a small town near Limburg, on the Hessian border. Almost 500 of a total of 8,000 federal police students are trained here every year . Compared to the number of state police officers, that's little. After two and a half years, they are police officers in the middle service. In the past only tall applicants were accepted. Since this was abolished, the lowest police career attracts more interested parties: underage young professionals, over thirty-year-old career changers. Migration background is expressly welcome. A few weeks after the start of training , the newcomers are ceremonially sworn in. Now they clean their shoes nicely. Yes, it will be tight. They still have a quarter of an hour. I think they mean it very well with the detergent. They are all full of foam, the shoes. Ha! Let's have a look. Frau Schall is already outside. - Mrs. Schall is already here! The dreaded parlor. Kathrin Schall takes a closer look today. Later, the parents of the candidates visit the barracks. Straighten your hat a little! You have to make your bed tidy, Herr Meyer. Well. We think about something else with the returnable bottles. Yes. - Put them away in a moment. Things don't look any better with 16-year-old Berzan Basibuyuk. I wanted to sleep here today, that's why. Nevertheless, we now have room through the room. Then just put them in the closet. Many are living in shared accommodation for the first time. The two of you share a room that is not really big. You have to learn to keep order for your room neighbors. But also so that they can learn here, so that not everything is full of trash. I think it's just such a basic requirement that you have order in your life. We try to teach them that from day one. My mother actually does almost everything at home. She tidies my room, makes food, just does everything a mother does. So you have to get used to the change. But it's coming so slowly now. You're getting in there slowly. Are all there? - It's all there. Then we have more time now, a good ten minutes. Have another drink now! Maybe have another bite to eat, a chocolate bar or something. Then we line up at 25, in ten minutes, in front of the building. But then you are already done so far that we can start right away . We actually had formal training on the duty roster every day, in other words, practicing this marching: to the left, to the right, so that everyone walked in step. Yes, we practiced a lot, successfully as you can see. This drill was too much for three police students. They dropped out after just one month. For the remaining 479, the festival lighting is switched on to celebrate the day . With blue lights you go over red lights. Motorcycle escorts escort the bus convoy. * Marching music * March on the Diezer Marktplatz. Just keep step, stand still for an hour on command. Headmaster Martin Hartmann takes the oath of loyalty from the class. Left around! Swear hand up! Trainees of the Diez 18-2 course, repeat after me! I swear ... - (all) I swear ... ... to uphold the Basic Law and all laws applicable in the Federal Republic of Germany . (all) ... to uphold the Basic Law and all laws applicable in the Federal Republic of Germany . And to fulfill my official duties conscientiously, (all) And to fulfill my official duties conscientiously, ... so help me God. - (all) ... so help me God. Oath hand off! For Berzan's parents, too, a dream is coming true today. Father Halil Basibuyuk remembers. Yes, since he ... How old was he then? He has wanted to be a federal policeman since the seventh grade. He did it, even the first time. Entrance exam? - Entrance exam. Then he trained hard, prepared himself. That was not the case today and tomorrow. It was an uphill battle. Pan left! Whether Berzan Basibuyuk is suitable to become a good police officer remains to be seen. Pan right! School principal Martin Hartmann has high demands. Now it is important to find out in the first few weeks how authentically someone wants to be a police officer, how he reveals himself. We can do this by pushing people to their limits. People reveal themselves there. We are really looking for the citizen policeman who knows what he is doing and that he represents the rule of law. It's not that easy at all. For this we need the year to lay the foundations. At the end of the year we still realize: Someone or the other may still have to work a lot on themselves or they may not make it at all. Kathrin Schall should see to it that as many people as possible make it. The need for young people is immense. Berzan Basibuyuk's parents want to see how he is housed. Attendance was mandatory throughout the first month. The newcomers also had to stay overnight in Diez at the weekend. You have to pay attention to the length! The first week was very difficult. - Yes? Yes. Difficult the first week. But now after that I can see that he's happy too. Then the subject is over for me. Now I just give it my all so that he can do it. He can do it. I know he can do it. Because I have this gut feeling. He can do it. To create with, that's anticipated too far. There is still a long way to go. He still has to fight. It's not that you get something for free. He has to fight for it. Lots of discipline. Also, so mainly a lot of discipline. That's what I'll take away the most, I think. It seems as if the young man has realized what is important. The 32-year-old Kathrin Schall keeps an eye on whether everyone in her teaching group adheres to the regulations . I have to say, &quot;I love my office here.&quot; Mainly because it faces the street and the canteen. Whenever I have a break, I can watch the teaching group, especially at lunchtime. You are housed next door in the building. Then you walk past here to the canteen. There are one or two rules here. We have no hands in our pockets. We also don't eat while we're going from A to B. We walk neatly, actually on the sidewalk too. I can watch that from up here. They didn't know that for the first few days either. Then I often saw them walking past with their hands in their pockets . For example he here, Mr. Basibuyuk: Then at some point I saw him with a cigarette in his hand. Then I said, &quot;You are 16!&quot; He: &quot;Yes, Ms. Schall!&quot; I thought that was the end of it. But then I caught him again. So he had to write an elaboration. Because it's not just about the fact that he smoked when he was 16. The point is that he has been given a clear arrangement. It's also a question of discipline, self-discipline. When it comes to weapons, Berzan Basibuyuk is a regular player. Number two. Never point at other people, even if it is not charged. That is the one. - no The first is: &quot;Always handle guns as if they were loaded.&quot; Then there is three: &quot;Hold the muzzle forwards and downwards!&quot; Four is finger discipline. - Yes Yes Yes. I know my way around, huh? What is four? - finger discipline. Never thoughtlessly pull the trigger or keep your finger in the trigger. With finger discipline and in step you go to the shooting range of the neighboring Bundeswehr. Police Chief Commissioner Benedikt Schmidt leads the shooting training. Before the machine guns can even be looked at, there is a comprehensive theoretical briefing. The big box. Does that fit right? - Yes, that fits. Yes? - Yes. Well. The next two! Have you ever shot on a shooting range or something? No, never. It's the first time. * Shot * Excited, but just stay relaxed. Have you practiced knowing how to peel? Yes, we practiced that dry once. But when you know there's a real cartridge in there, that's a different feeling. Right. Did you hear? - Yes. Hand it over to me properly! Also with notification, or ...? Nah, but hand it over correctly! Oh yes. I see! Now. How did you learn that? - Well, actually. Then do it that way! Well. Unlock, fire a shot, leave the target, secure, in basic posture. That'll be it. Already a lot to think about, right? * Shot * Unlock, fire a shot! * Shot * - hold on! * Shot * A total of ten shots should go left and right. That doesn't sound too complicated. You shot the circle. You should shoot at the rectangle. - These aren't my shots. * Shot * You should have five here and five there. They shot ten at it. Five there and five there. OK. To listen! You need to listen more! It's OK. Everything is on the disk, well inside. You can build on that. Didn't notice the distribution or was it in the heat of the moment? Yeah, I didn't really get that. * Shot * Then I told him: &quot;Right!&quot; Then he said: &quot;Yes.&quot; That's why I didn't get it right. But it doesn't matter. - Yes. OK. - Yes. Well. * Laugh * Hm! * Shot * Especially when it bangs: Discipline, having yourself under control is necessary. Friday afternoon. Before the teaching group can say goodbye to the weekend, the dormitory must be swept clean. When passing through the room, Kathrin Schall not only checks cleanliness. She checks her class for gaps in backpack knowledge. Penalty minutes are added for errors. Ms. Tumi, you too will have a chance to learn about your backpacking skills. True, you have no minus. But you have a wavy line. I often ask people the same thing over and over again, because I know who has problems with which things. You still can't. They always hang in the same place. I wonder why they don't, when they realize that it is the crux of the matter, not to sit down and learn that. At some point you may notice that I keep asking you the same thing. Please tell me all the constituent elements of the theft! Just call! Just call? - Mmm. We have the three upstairs like we had on the whiteboard. A strange, movable thing ... - Mhm. Then what about the strange, moving thing? It must be taken away. - Yes. A removal has to take place. Elementary element of simple bodily harm? One person ... wait a minute! What is the state of illness like? Actually, that should be right. Kathrin Schall needs patience. She says of herself that she is nice in her severity. What does the teaching group think of you? Hard but hearty? - (all) Yes! A fair mother. * Laughter * What mother? Sister! Do you take that as a compliment? - Yes. Then see you on Monday. Well. Have a nice Weekend! You too! - Thank you. Two days off from military drill. All classmates go home, except for Michelle Demetriades. In order to learn undisturbed , she stays in the barracks with a heavy heart. Test anxiety troubles her. The single mother of a four-year-old son lives a few minutes away by car. Your parents take care of the child. It's important to me, I'm a single parent, so that it works. That's why I said before the exams: &quot;I'll stay here.&quot; As hard as I find it. You blame yourself for saying, &quot;Okay, actually, the time belongs to my son.&quot; Yes. But I'm putting this in here now. That will all pass too. That will not only benefit me, but also my son. We can then build something up. Monday morning, six o'clock. For Kathrin Schall, the day begins with lesson planning. For today she has prepared case studies for railway police officers, so-called situation training. Good Morning! - Tomorrow! When you are ready: right around! Advance towards the police training center! Just go to the train compartment! Everyday life is simulated realistically in the training center. A part of a passenger airplane can be found next to the mock-up of a train wagon . Be it trouble during the deportation flight or a riot on the platform: instructors mime angry citizens. It is always something different when you are really facing someone. Then he contradicts himself. That's really the hard part about really asserting yourself because sometimes you don't know: &quot;Do I have to be tough now or do I have to be a little better?&quot; First use for the shy Michelle Demetriades. Crap! - Hey, police! Stop it! Please go to the lockers there! So. - In front of the lockers, please! Okay I got it! - Yes. Do tell! The machine ate my money. - Yes. I'm not getting out of here. - Yes. I have nothing left here. Two euros, my money is in there. You can't just kick the machine here. Of course I can. - No you can't. You destroy the machine. You have opposed it several times. This is now obviously damaged. It's a crime. This is property damage. This is property damage, a criminal offense. Can I have your ID? Your identity card! Really sparkle even when you're excited: Kathrin Schall pays attention to every detail. I correct: Will come again with date of birth. Two, four, zero four, one, nine, eight, two, come! The situation training is really the free choice, because you have to apply the things from all areas. There was a lot to think about in this situation. But you have thought of everything. So I am very satisfied. You did that very nicely! Kathrin Schall will grade the measures with which the operation is solved and how the prospective police officers appear. Weeks later: The previous level of performance is announced. The police students are tense. Your performance so far is important for the interim report. We had one or two. The first supervisory work was not doing so well. They have agreed on targets that they have to do something. Unfortunately, they still did not attend tutoring. I don't take this personally. But I do care if I keep saying something. I notice in the exams: It is not implemented. Then I ask again: &quot;What was it?&quot; Then I realize: they're just lazy. Then it annoys me that one tries to teach them everything as best as possible and that they all pass. It is not implemented. I think it's like having young children. &quot;Yes, yes. You talk! I can do it all somehow.&quot; But for some it gets tight. Michelle Demetriades shouldn't have to do with ambition. Your course services. I think you will like it. Wow! I got it with Mrs. Loos of all people. But you won. (whispers) Won. * Laughter * I can't say much about that. I'm very satisfied. Thank you. Then I just have to hold it next week. You can do it! - I'm excited anyway. At the beginning I was very cautious. But I think it will get better over time. At some point you turn it off. I think when we go to the departments after the summer, we have no chance anyway. We are well prepared for that here. Actually, you are also happy when you can get started with people. Berzan Basibuyuk's dream of becoming a federal policeman ends. Failed. He quits with his father. He or his parents don't want to talk to us about their decision . We see him for the last time that day. Frankfurt Airport. Trial day for the teaching group at Germany's largest airport. 2400 federal police officers work in shifts. They are responsible for aviation security and control international travelers. Seen figuratively, the German border runs in the middle of the terminals. At first, it's a bit new to me too. I haven't flown in a long time. That's why I don't really know the whole process anymore. That's why I'm looking forward to the day today to see how it really works out. During the immigration control, software recently checked the identity. Instead of the officials, a camera compares the appearance of the traveler with the biometric passport data. If everything is correct, open the lock. Police chief inspector Tobias Flechsig explains the new technology to the group. When in doubt, the police use specific questions to check who might have something to hide. Michelle Demetriades is allowed to watch as her colleagues control American tourists. The two couples say they are going on a vacation trip across Europe, next destination Netherlands. Everything seems fine. English is not really my thing now. Did you understand everything? - Yes, but! It's a very responsible job. The official here decides on the entry of the citizen. Of course, a second opinion is also important. The colleague may also have a more trained look. That is of course included. Next station: aviation security control. The search of the passengers is carried out by security companies on behalf of the Federal Police. It only monitors the work of its subcontractors and only intervenes in individual cases. The control point is secured by two officers. Michelle Demetriades will be here for the next year of training. We're also doing an internship. We don't just look. We are then the second man. We then go on patrol with our colleagues. You should work there. That's why our superiors train us to do this, because our colleagues have to rely on us. We must already know what we are doing here, how we are acting on what legal basis. The first year of training ends in mid-August. Today the results of the intermediate examination will be announced. March one last time. Kathrin Schall directs her class to the discharge ceremony. Lesson group 44: turn left twice, move forward! Just like on day one, the &quot;fair mother&quot;, as she is called here, sees every little detail even today. You could have ironed that shirt again, right? Ah! Of the original 482 students, 99 gave up or failed the intermediate examination. The best comes last. Michelle Demetriades is not just number one in her class. It also got the best grade of the entire year. Demetriades, Michelle. Is it correctly spoken like that? Yes. O my God! * Cheers and applause * Yes, you did a really great job, 12.84 ranking points. Congratulations! - Thank you very much! * Cheers * embarrassing! - Very well. Congratulations! - Thank you. Congratulations yes! Teaching group 44 dissolves. Many never see each other again. The moment comes for Kathrin Schall when she has to let go. Today my training assignment ends for you. Always try to balance your conscience with the ministry. Perhaps you are thinking of the values I conveyed to you. In short: &quot;Be good cops!&quot; You can be proud of yourself and what you have achieved here. Because it's me. * Applause * Kathrin Schall did her part to turn young people like Michelle Demetriades into good police officers. Very sad, but ... It is still uncertain who will hold out on the hard road to the federal police until the end of the training . COPYRIGHT SUBTITLE: hr 2019