Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today I'm excited to Microsoft Excel. Feel free to use the timestamps you the most. Otherwise, why don't we jump on the a photo with your iPhone or your Android phone Microsoft Excel. To be able to do this, click into Android phone and download an app called Microsoft an icon on your phone with the Office logo. Let's the bottom right-hand corner, click on the button click on the one that says image to table. Next, I'm going to select this sheet of paper and take I want to bring into Microsoft Excel. I'm going all done, click on confirm. Next, I see a screen table down below showing all of my data digitized. on open. Check that out. All of my data has been my date, impression, and clicks column. This is could also open it on my desktop. Tip number two, Head over to the website, office.com and log have an account, don't worry, you can create one in to office.com, over on the left-hand side, This opens up the Excel start page and here we can you could also start from a template. This drops have the most commonly used controls directly you can use ideas in Microsoft Excel to get have a whole bunch of data. I could analyze it on I'll click here within the data and then on the the far right-hand side and click on ideas. This see that Microsoft Excel has analyzed the data and at the data. For instance, here I see that the If I want to keep this insight, I could insert as well is I can ask a question about my data. go ahead and type in a question. I typed When you type in your query, you just have match the different column headers. Here, for type and I have another column called profit. results of my question. How cool is that? Here, I profit. Tip number four, you can define names combination to make it friendlier to read typically if I'd want to calculate profit, I'd minus E2. When you look at this formula, unless it won't make that much sense. Instead, what I I want to run this formula on. To do this, and then if we click on the formulas tab, it'll we can define a name. Let's click on define name. header is revenue. Let's go with that. Next, define a name for this as well. Here, it selects Now, if I go back to my profit column, instead of and now I could type in revenue and that's to subtract the cost. Look how much friendlier it also fills it all the way down and when I simply revenue minus cost. That's so much easier number five, I want to show you how you can master refresher on what a relative or absolute reference I want to calculate the profit. To calculate the cost, I'll select cell D2 and subtract cell E2. formula down and here, if I go to cell G7, you'll I went down a few rows and here, the formula takes reference and as I move the cell, the formula to calculate the sales tax. The sales tax is 10% reference, let's see what happens. Here, I'm going by 10%. Here, if I just use a formula as is and cell, it's also moved the sales tax. I want to use To do this, I want to show a quick shortcut key If I go up to the formula here where I see the F4 key, function four and it adds a dollar sign an absolute cell reference. When I hit enter and you'll see that it's locked it to this 10%. key makes it really easy to set this in place. over here, if I press F4 again, here it'll toggle only the column is locked and if I press it a complete relative reference. Tip number six, I like a pro. What are macros? Well, they help you I want to add some additional countries to my all these same types of cookies. Now, I could I could copy all the cookie types, I could but this takes a lot of manual steps. I want let me type in another country name, Italy, and a macro, let's click on view on the top toolbar let's select macros. Within the menu, let's click check the box that says use relative reference. with a relative reference, the macro will run from record macro. We can now give the macro a title, I finish entering the name, you can also assign where you're going to store the macro. I'm going Now the macro is recording so let's fill out our and I'm going to go in and paste it six times. above and I'm going to paste it down here. I'm top and let's click on stop recording. Basically, run through. Now that I've recorded all the steps, going through and manually copying and pasting I'm going to run my macro. Once again, let's can now run my macro. Check that out, it has now This is just a simple example of how you can use examples. Tip number seven, I want to show you To use data types, up on the top ribbon, let's go there are data types. Currently Excel has two, there will be far more data types available. So below, I have three countries or geographies and I So here for instance, I'm going to highlight these click on geography. It's now converted these icon appears next to it. Next, I could click on information related to these geographies. For could also pull in the largest city. Along with There you see with these geographic entities, Next, I want to run through some of my favorite is XLOOKUP. If you've ever used VLOOKUP before or So, what does XLOOKUP do? Well, just like the name with a bunch of data related to different list out the store manager based on the country. I and the manager. I want to pull the manager will help with this. To use XLOOKUP, let's type in parentheses. First, I needed to find what value I let's click on country. Next, let's enter a comma is. This is basically where I'm doing my lookup Here, I'm going to make it an absolute reference. basically, what happens is if it finds the United going to send back? And I want to select this too, I'm going to make it an absolute reference. is as I paste this formula down, I want it to I've now specified my return array. Next, I can insert quotes and I'll simply type in not found. the match mode. I want it to be an exact match, so an exact match for the country, I don't want I'll hit enter. And here you see that it pulls in United States. If I copy this down now, you see as the manager. You can use XLOOKUP for all sorts of how you can use it. Tip number nine, another You can enter equals and then type in sum, and you and that'll tell you the total of the column. key. Instead, you can press the alt key together pull in the sum function and sum up all the values to sum values, you can simply highlight all the you'll also see the sum. One additional way that ribbon and then insert a table and then click on I can add a total row. Now when I click down below number of different functions. I'm going to select 10, I want to show you how you can connect or and B, Cookie Monster, Kevin Stratvert, Excel Tips one cell. I'm going to show two different ways you to pull these together. You simply type in concat first value. I'm going to insert a comma because I space, quote, another comma and now I'll select now concatenates those values but there is an I'm going to type in Cookie Monster because Now instead of entering a formula, I simply drag If I click on this little icon, I can apply a how I merge these two values and it does the same to use a formula anymore to connect cells. Tip SUMIF to only sum values if they meet a certain so I see all my profit for the United States and want to know the profit for the United States? We going to enter my formula and we're going to type I want to look in column A to see if it matches and I'm going to type in United States in quotes. finds a match over here, I need to indicate what so for the sum range, I'm going to highlight and hit enter. Here now, I see that the profit for Tip number 12 and this is similar to SUMIF but certain criteria. Here, I want to know how I see all my countries and I see the cookies that so here, let's insert a formula. I'm going to type parentheses and here, I need to define the range, that we sell in each of these markets. Next, I fortune. I'm going to insert quotes, type let's click on enter. Here now, I see that we sell I see in the United States and here, I see in Tip number 13, I want to show you how you can use in your Excel sheet. You can build some pretty just a simple one here. Right here in my data, I cookie types that we sell in those markets. rating. If the favorability rating's too low, we they don't seem to like our fortune cookies going to type in IF and then I'm going to do a logical test. So let's say that maybe if we want to investigate. So I'm going to then we are going to investigate. Otherwise, simply say all good. Now that I've typed in my this is 94%. That's greater than 25%, so all is here we see that for the 8% case, we should you how you can calculate the difference between from days to years but you could use the convert a store location that opened up on 10/18/2017 and can get today's date by typing in equals today, in days, this is pretty simple. We simply insert I subtract the date that we opened the location. old. Let's say I want to figure out what that is convert function. I'm going to enter an equals convert function, you could switch a number from what I need. First, I need to pick the number days. Next, let's insert a comma and then I need I go down this list, I want to select days. Next, selected days, it narrows down my set of options. parentheses, hit enter and I see that it's been decimal points if I want to see the very precise how you could very easily adjust column widths and you see a few of the rows are a little off and a click between columns, and I can drag it larger a lot of manual effort. Now, I can also click in I have a lot of columns to go through. I also have everything to simply fit, I can click up here in I could click in between two of these columns Similarly, I can click on the space in between adjusts all of the rows. Tip number 16, you when I scroll down, I lose the headers. If I want toolbar and I can go over to this option that says when I freeze the top row, now my column headers the first column and if I want to unfreeze the bonus, you can also select the row, go to split, those panes so it freezes it in that specific as well. Tip number 17 is pivot tables and using pivot tables, you don't have to enter To insert a pivot table, simply select anywhere insert recommended pivot tables. So here, it'll want to just insert a pivot table on your own, go It'll select your data, let's click on okay. the easiest ways to learn is to simply explore and also have a more in-depth video in the description fields down into these rectangles down below. For rows and here I could see how many countries to see profit by country, I click on profit and United States, we have just shy of 3 million and also pull cookie in and then here I could see the can right click on this, and I can even sort from like. Along with that, if I click up here, I can China. One of the nice things as well is you're If I go up to the pivot analyze toolbar on top, Let's insert this bar chart and here I can based on what I'm doing in the table. Pivot tables definitely worth exploring. Tip number 18, you can data. Here, I want people to insert a store a table down below and someone could come in and select it from a dropdown list. How do we insert a top and click on data. Within data, let's go over icon. This opens up a prompt and we can set it, list, we need to define what the list is. Let's list to be one of these two managers. Next, I'm the correct source. Let's click on okay. Now, if I can select from a dropdown list and I can drag down and this will apply the dropdown list one of these store managers. Tip number 19, into your Excel spreadsheet and your spreadsheet latest data. Here's a table from Wikipedia that do this? Well, let's jump back into Excel. Back the top bar and then go over to the option that in the URL where we want to get the data from and and we could click through to see all of the data I see a table called varieties and it looks like There are a few issues though and there are clean it up before importing it by clicking on you can also directly click on load. For now, the Power Query editor and I can now make edits I don't need this top row so I'm going to click I also don't need this flavor column so I'm going rest of this looks fine to me so let's click on all of the data from Wikipedia into my Excel when I go to the top ribbon, I can click on query I could indicate how often I want Microsoft Excel it refresh every 60 minutes or I could simply set Tip number 20 and this is the last tip of today. I To collaborate with others, let's go up to the top share. If you save your Excel file in OneDrive or with others. When I click on share, this opens up could define whether people can edit or if they're date, a password. Here too, I could specify simply copy a link and then share it elsewhere. right-hand corner, I could click on comments and I'm working with. I could work with any number all work together in real time. All right, that tricks in Microsoft Excel. Down in the comments you especially like or let me know if there are I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, please videos like this in the future, hit that subscribe new content like this comes out. And lastly, in the future, leave a note down below and I'll that's all I have for you today. I hope you