He is indeed the only heir of a thousand-year-old family of chefs. This knife skill technique controls the temperature Contestant No. 7 Jiang Luoluo In this year's Chef Contest It's a dimensionality reduction attack on other players. Now please let our lovely judges start scoring 10 points Unprecedented full score The first prize of the competition, the chef's ring, must go to Jiang Luoluo well Grandpa, I finally got it back. The chef's ring that belongs to our family First, so what? I'll kill you. ah ah Ah, murder, murder I heard that King Cheng was at a palace banquet half a year ago. Sudden loss of taste and smell He also said that the famous doctors in Beijing were helpless. Only food can cure During this period of time King Cheng's staff went to Jiangnan incognito Whose family are you from? If I could cure King Cheng's illness, A reward of ten thousand taels of gold hey-hey Look at my newly made candied haws. They are the most appetizing. Just waiting for the King's staff to come and taste it. Hahaha, that's it. Hey look The most useless waiter in Zuixianlou I'm here to be lazy again It's like this every day Your shopkeeper is here to arrest you. ah Where is this? Oh my candied haws! Where did this send me? Send me home Why are you still here? Unlucky Years Even paper bullies me Cooking God Conference I won the first place in the Master Chef Competition Sent here Do I want to be the first in this era? To activate the ring and go back? Oh my candied haws! My candied haws You're a goddamn Don't run You broke my candied haws Today you will have to pay me ten thousand taels of gold I will go to the government office and beat the drum to ask for an explanation. Brother, you are just scamming me Do I look like an idiot? Your candied haws are worth a ton of gold My name is written backwards The king's two senses are missing, and I am a candied haws It will definitely whet her appetite. You delayed my delivery of the candied haws If someone else grabs it first My ten thousand taels of reward are all gone. You compensate me That's it? It's appetizing Dry and astringent Sugar color dull No one eats it even if it's thrown on the roadside Hey, hey, I This candied haws is good. Ah, you compensate me. You compensate me This is what I got from Chef Lu at Zuixianlou. Request the recipe. You yellow-haired girl serving tea How dare you point fingers at Chef Lu? You compensate me Oops, that's it. No one dares to call themselves the God of Cooking in front of me Isn't it just a candied haws? I will compensate you How do you compensate? Put the pot on and boil the sugar Sugarcane of this era It is very different from modern sugarcane. The quality of the syrup will be much worse. If only we had the sugar cane we have now, Where does modern sugarcane come from? Is it this ring? Wow So magical sugar cane I'm going to game plug-in This girl is the chosen one. Wow Procrastinating Have you finished it? Hey Where does such fresh sugar cane come from? Was it stolen? Oh, do it quickly. Call me when you're done. Procrastinating You're done! Lord Letter from Liu Miaoyun of Wanhua Restaurant The letter said that the restaurant had launched several new dishes. May restore your sense of smell and taste I hope so I hope that my senses can be restored as soon as possible. It's better to leave Jiangnan and return to the border After all, the one who deceived my grandmother The devil wants me to arrange a marriage with her granddaughter In Jiangnan If I meet that shameless demon family again I will kill him with one sword. Seventh day What do you smell? Like the taste of nectar That's not right. Flowers bloom in this season... My Lord, can you smell it? Yeah, I can smell it. The syrup boiled in this ring It tastes better than the sugar cane outside. If you don't give me that, I can't smell anything. The prince who can't taste anything is so charming It's so delicious. Hey girl, teach me We sell at high prices and make a lot of money How about it Are you a villain? The joy of others eating my food Much more than the high value happiness Where did the person die? Oh my god, so murderous Ah, who broke into the house? What who? That's Shopkeeper Li from Zuixianlou Your boss I have raised you for so many years in vain I asked you to carry a plate but you hid and slacked off. I'm going to break your legs. I I'm telling you If you have something to say, please talk it over Don't hit people in the face. Hitting people but not their faces I You damn girl I'll break your legs. Beating someone is against the law Beating someone is against the law. Stop and don't run My Lord, there is something wrong with those two people. The smell of delicious candy Who are you looking for? This is what you did. No no no no It's the waiter at Zuixianlou She stole the recipe from Chef Lu. It has nothing to do with me. Zuixianlou Zuixianlou Lu the Kitchen God Oh, thank you two masters. Alas If you see that waiter, ignore him. She's just a hypocritical fool. I won't make any money I specifically asked Chef Lu to be the chef This is how you treat me No, no, no, how dare I be perfunctory to adults This is indeed what Lu the chef did. She's waiting in the kitchen now. If you don't believe me, you can go and watch it. She's just a hypocritical fool. She also said that others were happy after eating what she made. She is happy I can't earn any money. It's her For you What is it? Eighteen years ago Your grandfather, that old charlatan Throw this rag to me. I kept telling you to wait for you I gave it to you on the seventh day of the seventh month when I was 18 years old oops I also have a grandfather Where is she Oh, I haven't seen it in years. Maybe he died. I want to find the waiter It was the waiter who was not at Zuixianlou at that time. I am unlucky with my father, my husband and my son; men are unlucky with their mothers, their wives and their daughters. If it wasn't on the seventh day of the seventh month when I was eighteen Getting married in a temple will... Death without a complete body You old fuck To kill me You should pack your things and get married. Oh, I don't know what sin I have committed. Don't kill me. If the man has strong magic power What if you kill me first? Cold salad, if you don't want to die Hurry up and get dressed to get married. marriage What marriage The prince's wife asked the old servant to tell the prince This trip to Jiangnan for this marriage Success is inevitable It has to be done The king has been in good health these years It has nothing to do with the fate of a star of misfortune. Could it be that my grandmother was tricked by that charlatan? It's so confusing He got his own grandson involved. The prince suddenly lost his sense of taste at the palace banquet Two senses of smell Could it be a sign of your fate? Some things we would rather believe It's unbelievable. For the wedding, you only need to go to Guanyin Temple to pray for blessings from heaven and earth. Ceremony Lord, Lord Go to Guanyin Temple yes Use some crooked methods to force my grandmother to let me get married Really good tricks You egomaniac, do you think this girl wants to marry you? Don't make noise in the Hall of Donors Couple worship Please exchange hair with the two donors You took so much trouble to marry me. But I always accept everyone who comes. Let's encourage each other. &quot;Eighteen&quot; concubine Good good good Well, I might as well tell you This girl cheats on marriage every year I have five or six children. Congratulations on becoming the receiver. People who cheated me always died miserably. Then you call the police. My name is Jiang Luoluo Then I wish Miss Jiang a long life. Don't let me lose my wife at a young age Goodbye Don't get entangled Donate your red rope Who wants to bother you, you psycho? I don't want to have anything to do with you in my life. Master, can this keep you safe? Can Then she doesn't want Give me both. Letter from a spy in the army Xianyaoju under the name of the Fourth Prince I don't know where this chef came from. For seven consecutive days, the ring was set up in front of the restaurant. Our Wanhua Restaurant has never won a single victory Wanhua Restaurant was given to me by my father. The palace can receive envoys from various countries. We can recruit famous chefs from all over the world This time it was prepared by Wanhua Restaurant The fourth one will naturally slap me in the face in public What should I do? Otherwise, I will tie up the new chef. Winners take it all Return to Beijing first That's right Send someone to pick up the waiter in Jiangnan Also brought back to the capital What about the princess? The old lady ordered to bring someone back to Beijing. A person who misleads people with lies You are not worthy of being my princess. We are both from Jiangnan If the marriage partner is that person The king would be willing to Thank you, Abbot See you later Hard work on the road Have a safe journey girl Amitabha Amitabha I'm here for the Beijing Cooking Competition I don't know, Lord I don't know when the young master will return to Beijing. Miaoyun has failed to welcome If I don't return to Beijing This Wanhua Restaurant is the best in the world. I'm afraid I'll become a laughing stock. It's useless that the son is Miaoyun The new chef of Yaoxianju It was Liujia from the Chef God Conference ten years ago. We are really not opponents. Please rest assured, sir. My dad is busy posting notices Recruiting famous chefs You will definitely be able to recruit experts The King's patience is limited. If on the stage tomorrow Under my nose Even if your parents are left by my mother You should also know the consequences. Wow It is indeed a restaurant that can host a chef competition. It's too luxurious. The No.1 Chef Jiang Luoluo I should be the chef in this first restaurant again. Hey, thank you I'm sorry. Roll Roll Roll How clumsy? Who are you? Why haven't I seen you before? I tell you Not everyone can come to my Wanhua Restaurant Broke something Sell you out I can't afford to pay. I'm here to be the chef of a restaurant. Hey, he ... Delaying work Go, go, go, go. Do you really think that anyone can come to my Wanhua Restaurant? Ahhh Since you are recruiting people Why can't I? We are recruiting What does it have to do with you? Where do you rank in the God Elimination List? Have you ever participated in the once-in-a-decade God-Extermination Conference? Or maybe you are working in a famous building? When my grandfather was alive, I was the second Now, of course, it's first Hahahaha you arrogant kid Open your mouth and someone will come Do you know who is number one in the world now? That's the factory of the imperial kitchen. It's not you, it's not your grandfather. Walk walk walk walk walk walk you you Um A gentleman talks, not acts. The real thing is the knife This imperial chef Chang has never competed with me. How do you know I'm not the first? Is this crazy girl a lunatic? How dare you speak so generously Don't even mention the number one Chang family in the world Take Lu Miaoyun, the chef of Wanhua Restaurant, for example. She is not worthy of competing with him. He is just a clown seeking attention. Hahahaha, I actually came all the way from Jiangnan to the capital Kind of interesting The son knows this woman Although very familiar I have no knowledge and dare to seduce My Lord, wait for me. good I want to see what you are capable of today. Everyone bear witness for me If you can complete my test today My Wanhua Restaurant accepted you If you can't finish it You just walk through the door of my restaurant The nine monsters of Kou went to the government office to ask The crime of disturbing public order Songhuahua Restaurant was bestowed upon King Cheng by the prince. Disrupting the Royal Underground That's a big sin. No matter if she committed a serious crime or a capital crime Blame her for being arrogant. Suffer the consequences What's more I saw that she didn't dare to fight at all. Keep your word A promise is a promise Small second meat It is said that there is no feast without a knife. If you can put this piece of pork belly If everyone present is satisfied, How to win no problem Hum, this question seems simple In fact, she had already lost. To cut this piece of meat It takes thirty to fifty years of hard work. Look at her age It's absolutely impossible to have such good knife skills Yeah, hahahaha Pagoda meat from the outside to the inside The knife must not stop The meat cannot be cut Clear distinction between thin and thick Finally, it becomes a pagoda How is this possible? What an amazing little girl. Look at this age, he has such knife skills This is considered outstanding among peers. If it can be cultivated in the future Then you will definitely become a famous chef. Good good good Can I keep the chef of Wanhualou now? I was wrong today. I am not satisfied You lose you are I am Liu Miaoyun, the chef of Wanhua Restaurant. oh So you want to deny You've never seen this person Why do you look like you have a deep hatred towards me? The knife skills are barely acceptable. But it is far from enough to be the best restaurant in the world As the chef of the world's number one restaurant, Natural dissatisfaction Deer is absolutely right. I want to become a phoenix just by my knife skills. This is too much of a joke, isn't it? Ahahahaha Just now you guys made up your own questions to choose knife skills Now it feels like child's play again Are you afraid that I will take your job? The rule is that everyone present is satisfied I can't stand your petty tricks. Natural dissatisfaction You can take my job. How can you compare with me? I was afraid of hurting your poor self-confidence Since you are looking for trouble Then I'm welcome. Did you cook all these dishes? Of course This is Phoenix Flying More like a fluttering wild duck Dead This is the potato shreds you cut. This technique will take another 800 years. You come Pull this bitch to the gate Kneel down for two hours and bring it to me This Wanhualou Restaurant is famous all over the world How dare you go back on your word in public? Why did she come to Beijing? The son is her She provoked me father Hehehe misunderstanding misunderstanding It's all misunderstanding Will it stop me? Hey, my Wanhua Restaurant is famous all over the world Natural words keep their promises Since this girl has completed the test Naturally, you can enter my Wanhua Restaurant Hahaha, Miaoyun, why don't you put her in the kitchen? Change your attitude faster than turning the pages of a book Miss please Come in Why are you sneaking around? Can I not be sneaky? I'm telling you We work in the same company I don't know how to avoid suspicion. As for her, you should just sell your art well. I'll cook my meal. Don't ask your bodyguard to call me every day I'm busy Don't be presumptuous Be calm with the bodyguard. Holding a controlled knife every day I'll give you surgery sooner or later. Today more I'm not here today to help you. It's for the reputation of Wanhua Restaurant. The reputation of Wanhua Restaurant I can't tell. You are an arrogant and intimidating person. His face is still stinky, but he still has a sense of collective honor. The shopkeeper listens to you. Could it be that you are Excellent staff I have no merit at all If you look hard, you can still find it. For example, face Good looking The skin is also good Are there any couples? Is it nice to touch? Not good to touch It's better to touch the jade stick than to touch you Qiu Qi Kill her, she is a prince Why Murder is against the law How much money did she give you? I'll give you two an IOU. I came here to tell you Since I'm staying at Wanhua Bar Just let me stay in my place I have a new moon day There is no relationship between you and me Is there anything wrong? It's ok. Get out, young man. I'm here to ask Miss Jiang to go to the kitchen You guys are here You don't have abdominal muscles. What are you pretending? go out Miaoyun resigns couple What is a couple? What do you think of this land? Didn't you say you would take me to the kitchen? What are you doing here? With your ability, you are not qualified to work in the kitchen. You'll grow vegetables on this piece of land for the rest of your life. You don't keep your word You said that if I could handle the test, you would let me be the chef. Can you toast Wanhua wine? It's the blessing you've earned in eight lifetimes. You still want to compete with me for the position of chef? Even in dreams, I know that you have no integrity. What a pity! Let me go What credibility do you have with a bitch like you? This ring is nice. Bring it here so I can see mine. Let me go, I want to report to the police Report to the police All the good things in this Wanhua Restaurant I am Liu Miaoyun Send it to destroy a room. Ah Liu Yunna Don't worry, I've already told the child Let her hold on This Western Regions genius was It has always been intact When it is clear that Pan is kicking the door No, I can't win. But Jiang Luoluo killed this Western Region Prodigy I have no food to cook Well, this crime of smashing the plaque will be punished by Jiang Luo Ride and live in Bahrain Dare to bully my aunt Give you some color ha You're not sleeping at night and playing ghost here. Good stuff. What stealing? I'm taking back my ring. Listen to it I'm quite satisfied This marriage My marriage with you is a temporary solution. After three months, my grandmother will return to the mountains to recuperate. We will separate Find your soulmate Don't be so sentimental Best to merge I don't like you anyway You are the best today Just pretend you haven't seen me It's so annoying Lord Zuixianlou shop Xiao Er disappeared after leaving Jiangnan. Keep looking and you must find her Who moved my face? Tell you to bully me Coriander is gone How did you open the door? What are you arguing about? Get out of here, sir. Today is the tenth day of the competition According to your previous bet If you lose Wanhua Restaurant The sign of the No.1 restaurant in the world Prince Miaoyun shouldn't act on impulse. Following Pan Fan's path Now I have developed How to use the unique stone materials from the Western Regions Please give Miaoyu another chance The gentleman then made Wanhua Restaurant lose its reputation Welcome back Who dares to fight today? Today is the last day of the Ten Days War 10 years ago Even your master lost to me in the Master Chef Competition You are not my opponent Besides, you have lost 9 days in a row. It was me before uncle This time I have developed the style of the Western Region Prodigy I will never lose to you again I've heard of it before Wanhua Restaurant Planting exotic ingredients that were sent as tribute from the Western Regions Just for people to do Since you have this ability That old man today I want to see this Western Region genius No, no, no The Western Prodigy withered how so It was fine yesterday. Who is watching over it? It's Jiang Luoluo She must have forgotten to water the plants yesterday. Jiang Luoluo Oh This Jiang Luoluo is going to destroy my Wanhua Restaurant! Go, go, go and get her for me good Jiang Luoluo, you killed the genius of the Western Regions What crime should I take? Are you sick? Everything is on my head every day If you have time, why not go pick up the manure at the entrance of the village? Ahhhhhhhhhhhh This old man really can't do it I originally thought you were a talented person. I told you to look less at such precious celery. But you So cruel I have treated King Cheng badly. Oops! This thing is as tender as celery May West and Fast Horse I came from the right table to Wanhua Restaurant to plant thorns Six Ferghana horses were killed along the way. I'm afraid we won't meet again in the future The True God of Genius You have committed such a great sin Sinner's Corpse Can't resolve the world's hatred But I haven't watched any of the old wizards. Evidence of God Do you still dare to quibble about whether it is lettuce? She was already destroyed when I got there. Shut up. Yesterday when I took you to the vegetable garden The new beggar is fine. Xiao Er is the witness. I testify. It turns out that he had been planning to rely on me. If you hadn't killed this Western genius I have already stopped Pan Long with the new method of the wizard Openly Saved the world's number one restaurant In the end, it's all Jiang Luo's fault If I could get it out Can you do it, naturally? Do not eat How can you have Wizards of the West Okay, put it in the sun and it will cry. Such a good vegetable garden is difficult to take care of Poor little lettuce Sister will try to save you. Next I spent the whole night collecting water yesterday to save two Specially designed for the ring This is to avoid framing someone. Stop talking nonsense I didn't say you framed me. Why are you so excited? This Western Region Prodigy is truly extraordinary I just wrongly blamed Miss Jiang It's okay, since there's no problem. Let the competition begin. The old man is a great cook I guess you have some insights into how to cook shepherd's purse in the Western Regions. Why not take advantage of the time? You and I cook shepherd's purse together Besides, it's also fair to decide who wins and who loses. It is my honor to be able to cook 7 dishes from the Western Regions. I can't do it at all. Tie What are you doing here? Asking for water Excellent staff treatment I picked up water all night I'm dying of exhaustion. Where does Western Flag Vegetables come from? You mean lettuce? I spent a whole night saving him. Haven't you seen it all? Keep talking Do you think you are the only one who wants to be an excellent employee? I don't want Wanhua Restaurant to fail. Otherwise, we'll have no place to eat. Really natural Who is it? I'm telling the truth I don't mind being frustrated. I'm telling the truth Let go ah ah Second Brother The plaque of the world's number one restaurant is about to be smashed Are you still in the mood to flirt here? Don't be happy, brother. It's not certain who will win or lose, Prince. oh Yeah Bro, you're done. You don't need to taste it to know that this is the taste of our Xianyaoju Smells good hahaha Fourth brother, is this a dog's nose? I can smell the flavor of my own food in the smoke Brother, I really admire you. Yes or no Then you can also smell which asset it is from the identification. you I won't argue with you. We'll see. I still can't taste anything. Only she can cure this king's coldness Time is up Which dish do you prefer? You can give the red ribbon to anyone. Fresh, fragrant and sweet Crisp and refreshing Mr. Pan is indeed Mr. Pan. The first time to cook this Western Flagship dish To reach such a level I choose Pan Lao I didn't expect Liu Miaoyun to come up with something like this. This spice is too strong. I also chose to judge Although the food looks good But in pursuit of the food itself Ignore the control of the fire After eating a few more bites, it feels bland and tasteless Han Fansheng She obviously hadn't seen a genius Why is this possible? Hahahahahaha The winner is decided Winners take it all Visitors Took down the sign of Tianxia Diyilou and smashed it Ahhh no no no Hahahahahaha The world's number one restaurant can't even keep the plaque bestowed by the emperor If you represent me, Dayu, to organize a cooking competition Wouldn't that mean that the royal family would lose all their face? Brother, let me see You should give up your position. Hahahaha if that typical Jiangnan Two characters Maybe there is still a chance to fight This can't be done I can't beg you like this. Wait a minute I'll compare with you. Humph, your Wanhua Restaurant is empty. Get a yellow-haired girl to compete snort This little girl is only good at using a knife It seems that the world's number one restaurant is about to change hands. The imperial plaque was smashed The blame for the disaster Liu family women Now she has to be in the spotlight I guess he will be implicated too. Even I am no match for Pan Fan You thought you could win Pan Fan You go up now It will only make the 9th floor a filial son for everyone in the world It's really rude to touch someone You can't beat Pan Fan It's because you're not strong enough Today I will let you enjoy my glory You hum snort Jiang Laoruo, you are crazy You must destroy my Wanhua Restaurant? I am solely responsible for the smashed plaque. This is true Everyone here is a jerk Don't hold me back then. But if you win I not only want to be the chef of Wanhua Restaurant I will also represent the restaurant to attend the Chef God Conference You dream of the chef competition every ten years Plan to select famous chefs for the imperial kitchen Defense can be ordered to attack Served as the head of the Imperial Kitchen The famous buildings behind you naturally rise in value What are you? You are worthy of participating in the Wanhua Restaurant father good I promise you The competition begins I smell it, is it her? Where is my brother going? It's not too late to leave after the winner is decided Time is up Mr. Han is engaged in one of the top ten main materials of the fish bone industry. Dragon and Phoenix This knife skill is so exquisite I'm afraid even my master can't match that skill now. Jiang Luoluo, where is your dish? This is what I cook Stir-fried pork with green pepper Jiang Luoluo made a home-cooked stir-fry. I don't want to taste this kind of stir-fry Who cares? Since no one wants to eat Jiang Luoluo's food Then Pan Laosheng in this competition I beat you this time. Hahaha, what's the use of you getting the favor of the emperor? What's the use of you getting your father's mind at the age of 12? You're not a waste yet. You blame me for giving you face Make you forget This prince made great achievements in the army when he was 12 years old. Making an exception to the title of king is a thing of the past From now on Whenever people mention the world's number one prisoner, they will think of me. Xianyaojun What's the hurry? This round of competition has not yet started It's not fair Since it is a competition How can you decide the winner without trying it? Your cooking is too cheap No one wants to eat You don't really think you won. Pan, let me try it. Is this delicious or unpalatable? Hey, I'm not poisonous. Mr. Pan couldn't even speak. Fortunately, I didn't eat Jiang Luoluo's dishes Jiang Luoluo, you are dead. The dishes you cooked have offended Mr. Pan. I lost I am a frog in a well. I have never seen such a unique home-cooked dish I ate my meal with no regrets Assignment How is this possible? Isn't this just a normal home-cooked meal? What can compare to the auspicious dragon and phoenix? Mr. Pan must have eaten too much delicacies from land and sea. So it feels novel I'll try it I'll try it Spicy but not choking Rich but not greasy Fresh and sweet I have never eaten such delicious green pepper pork This dish should only be found in heaven It's rare to hear this in the world It's so delicious. Teacher Xue, I vote for Jiang Luoluo Give her all. Give her all. I also vote for Jiang Luoluo I vote for Jiang Luoluo Mmm, it's so delicious. So delicious So delicious yes This is just an ordinary home-cooked dish. You've all been bewitched. It's her I smell it I memorized the recipe at the age of 3 5-year-old long knife 7 years old A 10-year-old can reproduce the recipes of incomplete ancient books The real top-notch food never relies on fame. It's the strength of the chef Xiang Luo, you are too proud too early I am you Are you the waiter at Jiangnan Zuixianlou? Why is she still so excited? No, I can't admit it. She hated me. Now, looking for trouble is just like walking into a trap. Kill him first and don't admit it See what she's going to do. No, no, no, no, waiter I don't know You are not a waiter Which law stipulates that I live in Jiangnan? It must be the waiter. And I'm a woman. It's inappropriate for a child to show up in public Why do you have such cooking skills? I worked as a kitchen helper in Zuixianlou for half a year. My master taught me Any questions? The master who gave Xiangluoluo the recipe Could it be the waiter? No matter As long as Xiangluoluo can make the same taste My cool feeling can be restored Can you make more of these dishes? Can you always make the same taste? That depends on whether my dad gives me the toilet paper. The dishes are low-key first Strive to quickly participate in the trance competition Get out of this place without toilet paper as soon as possible I definitely have no problem saying that I'm in the first grade But food like this I made it by chance. If you want to eat it every day, you definitely can't Chuanlan wants to restore my two senses We have to find the waiter at the winding building. Ah, that you You are looking for the waiter at Zuixianlou Is there any grudge between you two? Jiang Luoluo, take your dirty hands away Be careful or I'll kick you out of the restaurant You are blind. I just won the game. Now I'm the chef You will be my errand boy from now on. I'll kick you out, that's good enough. Son Why do you speak so clearly? If I win the game I can not only be the chef of Wanhua Restaurant And I can also represent the restaurant to attend the coming out meeting How come this is you? Liu Xiong's quibbling You just said You can't consistently make quality dishes You can't even take the applause The credit for the Ten Days' Appointment goes to Jiang Luoluo She is not suitable Are you suitable That's not what I meant. Son No, no, no Ha ha Jiang Luoluo saved the situation for my Wanhua Restaurant today I deserve to be the chef of Wanhua Restaurant. After all, she is young and impatient. She needs more practice in the future. This old thief is quite good at talking. Take it out quickly. hey-hey Why This is the jade pendant that symbolizes my position as the chef of Wanhua Restaurant. You can rely on this jade pendant Participate in the Trance Conference in the name of my Wanhua Restaurant Trance Conference I, Jiang Luoluo, am here Li Chengguang You just got married He hooked up with another woman. I wonder if the old man in the palace knows about this. How should I feel? Return to the Queen Mother She lacks both senses Loss of appetite Compared with half a year The emergency is getting more serious It is better to find a famous chef who can crack it as soon as possible. You go down first It's the emperor It's been two days since you came back. Why don't I see the granddaughter-in-law of the royal grandmother? The Empress Dowager was born in Xiangnan Don't want to go back Now that you are married There is no need to force others Grandma knows you are very filial. My mother died early You grew up with your grandmother. Grandma loves you the most If something happens according to your fate The royal grandmother Don't worry, grandma. Although it will be okay My grandson has to go back to his room to deal with border issues. It's getting late You should rest early too. Guang'er, do you have someone you like? The Fourth Prince has already told me You established authority for that woman in the restaurant If it's a concubine, it's fine. If you enter as a peacemaker I absolutely disagree If I confess to my grandmother Jiang Luoluo is my childhood wife. My grandmother was born under a fate I must stay in Beijing to cultivate my relationship with Jiang Luoluo It will be even more difficult to get a gift in the future Grandma must not know Jiang Luoluo's identity The Empress's life Vague and hard to determine Why bother with life? Grandma knows you are stubborn. But the facts are in front of us You just turned 18 and suddenly lost your senses How could my grandmother not be concerned about this marriage? The Royal Grandmother, Grandson and Princess will follow the will of Heaven. If I recover my senses soon Grandma should also stop interfering in Jiang Luoluo's marriage I have to find the waiter right now. A-choo Who scolded me Hey, what are you doing? What happened to my stay? Living in this room requires money Look at you, you're so poor. Do you have silver? Shopkeeper Can I owe it first? I will pay you back the money I earn Go go go go Hey If you can't afford the wing room, sleep in the backyard. You're wasting my time. Wait for me silver silver Silver Notes and Gold Ingots Well, let's find a pastoral place to spend the night. Ah, why are you here? How come you are here? ah Big Brother These days, the sun is dark and the moon is bright, please don't touch me Brother, I was forced. Why don't you believe it? I am neither old nor young I just want to live well I beg you to give me a way out Give me the red rope Red rope at Jiangnan Guanyin Temple oh I thought you were here to kill people. Don't you want it? Just to give my grandmother an explanation We will separate in three months. Please pay attention. You don't have to remind me I don't like you. I'm not the kind of person who's always nagging. Can't wash it off Jiang Lulu, ah Jiang Lulu This guy is good at nothing except good looks. You are really sick I'll do it myself Wear both on your hands I'm so afraid of death I'm afraid you'll kill me. What does it taste like? What's the taste? Do you have a dog nose? It's so cold. no Maybe it's my illusion Find her a gun room on the seventh day Don't let her sleep outside and freeze to death. I don't have to feed the mosquitoes anymore. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know your name yet. Li Er Li Er Such a sloppy name. Do you think your name, Qiang Luoluo, is elegant? What happened to Xiao Luoluo? The APP is very popular in our area, okay? Old cat and dog man What is APP I can really smell it. What are you doing I am Miaoyun's assistant in the kitchen. The vegetables I wash can only be used by Sister Miaoyun You have to wash it yourself. Okay, I'll wash it myself. Are you sick? The dishes in the kitchen are all sent by the forest rangers. You country bumpkin I'm afraid I don't even know where the cemetery is. Yangling Garden is the place where special ingredients are supplied to the imperial kitchen. It's also for the sake of Prince Cheng. We were able to drink together at Wanhua Restaurant You are insulting these top-quality ingredients by using them. Sister Miaoyun When we went to Yanglingyuan to get food today All were driven out How come? Madam Du, the owner of Yangling Garden We have a good relationship with Wanhua Restaurant Food never runs out If the cemetery does not provide food What does the kitchen use to cook? No wonder the backyard is so deserted It turns out that restaurants don't grow their own vegetables Do you think growing vegetables is an easy thing? Du Niangzi's ancestors were good at farming and raising children. Accumulated hundreds and thousands of years of experience This is how the world-class Yangming Garden came into being. It must be Miss Du who knows The chef in our restaurant is a country bumpkin Refusing to supply food If you don't agree Just do it yourself The chef may gossip. I despise you, bitch You dare? Let go Do you think I'm a soft persimmon that's easy to squeeze? Xiang Luoluo, don't push your luck Sister Miaoyun What's up? Zhu Niangzi asked for money Our restaurant The new chef It's Xiangluoluo again I will never let you wear a cloak this time You're humiliating me again? Hello Madam Du said she wanted to discuss the food with the merchant. Pack up and go Hey, everyone's gone. There is no food to cook today I didn't know Sister Du was here. Miaoyun has failed to welcome Take me to see Jiang Luoluo This way please you He is the new chef of Wanhua Restaurant who defeated Pan Fan. Jiang Luoluo I am Jiang Luoluo Who are you? Rude and disrespectful words and behavior Still masked Is it because I can't stand the stage? Have you ever heard a word Be able to enter the hall Kitchen This kitchen is for What table to put on Sister Du and Miss Jiang just returned to Beijing Don't know the rules His face was extremely ugly Affects objective appetite I have no choice but to wear a mask all day Inevitably lonely personality I hope Sister Du will forgive me Such a woman He could actually be the chef of the best restaurant in the world. I really don't know what kind of drug she gave the young master. Sister Du doesn't blame Miss Jiang It's Yun'er who is incompetent Failed to keep the position of chef You don't have to belittle yourself for this kind of person. I raise food for the cemetery I will never let this kind of person ruin my life. Sister Du, please don't leave Now Miss Jiang is the chef. My sister really has no choice But you don't look at her face We also need to consider the prince's face. Hey Jiang Luoluo Come over soon Met Ms. Du Oh, who are you? You haven't seen my ability. How can we jump to conclusions? Arrogance Then I want to see how capable you are. Listen to the questions Hey, didn't you say you wanted to take the chef to the cemetery? Want to discuss the ingredients? Why is this alley getting more and more remote? You haven't been here again Why so much nonsense? Just follow it carefully. No, don't rush. Go fast Ouch, little bitch Dare to play tricks on me Ahhhhhhhhhh What is the prince looking at? There's no such thing as Jiangnan Tanghulu Candied Haws Monkey Laigen Tanghulu This is the best hawthorn produced in Jiangnan. hey-hey Not the Jiangnan Candied Haws Can restore my good Kai Only that person can Madam Du asked her subordinates to tell the prince She went to Wanhua Restaurant to see Qiang Luoluo today. Is it enough to use as food for the cemetery? Should we go too? But that day had nothing to do with Pan Fan's contempt luck It shouldn't be a problem for Qiang Luoluo to deal with Lady Du I don't know whether to say you are arrogant or confident The biggest difficulty of this test Keep the taste of the food itself If you win I will raise a cemetery to supply you with food forever. If you lose Just get out of Wanhua Restaurant OK I, Jiang Luoluo, am the best in the world Isn't this a simple test question? See how long you can be arrogant Sister Du, this Jiang Luoluo is the one the prince wants to keep We can't move Du said that Jiang Luoluo agreed to this. Even if the prince comes We also occupied OK But my cooking skills Naturally, we must show it to the world Everyone has seen it. Look at how I, Jiang Luoluo, show my cooking skills If the prince is wrong I will clean up the house for the prince Where is this Why can't I exert myself? What do you want to do when your husband wakes up? Hahaha You've been drugged Can't move There won't be anyone around here. Even if you scream your throat out No one will come to rescue you. husband If you have something to say, please talk it over We have no grudges or hatred Who doesn't know that Miss Liu and the young master have a deep friendship? Come here and take a side seat. Still want to survive? Liu Wanyun Li Er It's unfair, brother. I'm in the kitchen. She is from Qiantang I'm not familiar with them, brother. What's this What is this Wait till I get the silver Fly away This knife Woohahahaha It will fall and stab you. You've been drugged Ordinary 5 seats can't be tested at all They will just think you committed suicide. Enjoy this last moment. Ahahahahaha No no no bro Hahaha, let's change the word. I'm in a state of bodylessness again. Big brother, not Help! Help! Is there anyone coming to see it? This dog man I'm going to be killed by you You are here today to bear witness I, Madam Du, made a bet with Jiang Luoluo like Jiang Luoluo can make dishes that retain the original flavor of the ingredients Satisfied me I will always provide Jiang Luoluo with food at my cemetery How difficult is this? You guys just watch Preserve the original taste of the ingredients Yeah, okay? Tell me what to do Use whatever ingredients you have at the moment OK Keep the original taste of the ingredients, right? What happened to Yuer? Why is it Lin Yi? Where is Jiang Luoluo? Grandpa Jiang Luoluo will never come back I want her name and life. It has to be a mother Is it original enough? Hum, is it enough to keep it? This knife technique is too messy It's just a tiger brain. Last time she used a simple side dish and had some leftovers It seems Pan Fan doesn't know how to cook now. I don't know what dirty tricks she used. People can be stir-fry spoons It's an insult to the world. An insult to the world An insult to the world Wait for me to fry the spoon for you. This is what you cut Of course I cut this. Aren't you guys watching? This is your knife skill. Jiang Luoluo, you are kidding me Isn't this cooked yet? Wait for me You can't reach Little Brother Where did you get the idea for this red string? I picked it up from the alley over there. younger brother How about I trade this kite for the red string in your hand? Sure for you Hey Coke This fracture looks like it was torn off violently. Oh no, something might happen to Luo Luo Escape from the first day Can't escape Fifteen I'm being killed now I will be stabbed. I'm a bad luck dog man I must be killed. I can marry the one I love after I die. Goodbye to this world full of mental illness be up How are you Thank you Otherwise, I might be dead this time. You shouldn't be in Wanhua Restaurant now. Competing with Lady Du How come This is Liu Miaoyun She asked Xiao Si to kidnap me Hurry up and chase after him I'm here Who competes with her in Building 5? Okay, try it. Feed this dish to the dog Dogs don't eat What are you doing? That's right, how can you eat this? Hello Jiang Luoluo, you are so outrageous I am the chef of Wanhua Restaurant. You are just a farmer feeding pigs. If you say it tastes bad, then it tastes bad. Unruly Jiang Luoluo The girl is kind enough to give you a chance You are so arrogant. I, Jiang Luoluo, have always been like this I don't care whether you are Mrs. Du or Mrs. Guo Really don't know how high the sky is. The cemetery of Lady Du in Shijie is very famous. Even the imperial kitchen staff had to show respect to her. How dare Jiang Luoluo She even threatened to participate in some galloping competition Why Then Madam Du can call her with just one word. Never turn over Is it true? Hey, you're so strong. You want the position of chef at Wanhua Restaurant The cloud gave it to you You also want the jade pendant of the chef of my Wanhua Restaurant? Go to the MasterChef competition The clouds are also given to you Where is my Wanhua Restaurant? I'm sorry you're going to destroy my Wanhua Restaurant. father I have done my best. It's unlucky for Wanhua Restaurant to meet such a person. A good business is being ruined Jiang Luoluo There is no arrogant person like you in my Wanhua Restaurant You leave me Why do you let me go? Jiang Luoluo, you lost According to the bet You should get out. You can't step into Wanhua Restaurant again Who do you think you are? My wife, I'm going to put this here today. Which family dares to have anything to do with Jiang Luoluo in the future? Don't blame me for turning against you OK No place for you Own place for you Jiang Luoluo checks the time You should go too. Be careful in your next life Don't say wait I think it's someone else who should leave. How come you came back? I won't come back I'm afraid someone wants to ruin my reputation. Committed suicide out of fear of crime Who are you Today is me Wanhua Restaurant clears out the bad guys Jiang Luoluo No outsiders allowed to interfere You are Jiang Luoluo Then who am I? Fake Fake Too much This is you too Not the real Jiang Luoluo Jiang Luoluo, the new chef of Wanhua Restaurant, is here What's going on Today Liu Miaoyun tricked me into going to the cemetery Discuss food supply with you Then he instigated the waiter in the store to kidnap me You are talking nonsense Sister Du, don't believe her. Lin Yi pretended to be someone else to frame someone But it's a felony. No, I am not me. This is Sister Miaoyun It was Sister Miaoyun who asked me to pretend to be Jiang Luoluo Take this opportunity to restore Jiang Luoluo's reputation. Shut up. Find someone to impersonate here It's killing me over there After Lin Yi left Let someone find the body. Pretending to commit suicide out of fear of crime Liu Miaoyun is very good at calculating Ha ha ha ha Misunderstand It's all misunderstanding Is this the case with this kid Lolo? She is lively by nature So when you came, you couldn't find her for a while. That's why Yuner resorted to this desperate measure. Have someone pretend to be her This is a case of random medical treatment Why don't you apologize to Madam Du? Sister Du, it's all Yun'er's fault Yun'er shouldn't do this for the sake of Wanhua Restaurant's reputation. This is the last resort That's murder and kidnapping. I would never dare to do that. Speak with evidence You said Yun'er instigated Xiao Si to kill you Where is Xiaosi? This old shopkeeper is really a talker. Yu took over the matter lightly. That person has left the capital That is there is no evidence Okay Jiang Luoluo Now that you're finally here Stop making so many excuses. I don't care, let's start. What to start Let me start my assessment of you. OK, what is the test question? The test is to preserve the taste of the ingredients themselves Preserve the original taste of the ingredients Let's start Jiang Lulu, you are crazy You dare to feed Du Zijie raw food? How can a big family town god eat raw food? It's raw food Not right. Not right. It's really inappropriate. Eating raw food is the sorrow of the barbarians before the civilization of the frontier I, Dayu, never said that. It's ridiculous This is really ridiculous. How can I eat it? I think Jiang Luoluo might as well just admit defeat. Make something like this What a waste of quality food. Right please Preserve the original taste of the ingredients You did it. Such opportunistic Just win, not cooking skills I'm not only dissatisfied with your food Now I'm suspicious of your whole character I thought you took the test yourself. What's the difference? Your cooking is not as good as Lin Yi's Lin Yi's cooking is at least cooked. I wish you had as much talent as you talk. Sharp-tongued I don't bother to argue with you. Here we are Vegetable salad Preserve the taste of the food to the greatest extent Hot weather Best for cooling off This fish is a sea fish. The taste is best when paired with soy sauce If it doesn't suit my taste at all I'm leaving Beijing today Never Return to Beijing Still a courageous one Then I'd like to try it. Sister Du, you can't eat her food I have my own considerations shoot shoot Call the wolf pig Call the wolf pig Xiao Lulu to go Happy Rabbit Sister Qing'e Luo, you have such a cruel heart. Girl, don't run away from me You forced her to eat raw food. Hurt her body Report to the police quickly Report to the authorities The Green Dragon is finished today It's all your own fault. Yes, it's all your own fault. Vegetables are sweet and refreshing The sashimi is tender and chewy And there is no fishy smell It's really delicious How come? This is raw. I won this time. Miss Jiang It's all my fault for mistaking pearls for elm wood I apologize to Miss Jiang here. From now on, I will send the food from the cemetery to Miss Jiang. This must be the best Thanks Thank you, Ms. Du Shang Luoluo, what are you doing? This injury can also make Sister Du so satisfied Cloud So many eyes are looking at Miss Jiang Really good cooking Can't fake it? Are you trying to say that I shielded Miss Jiang? No, that's not what I meant. Not the best Miss Jiang I have one more request In Dayu I have never tasted such delicious raw food. It's better like this We collaborate I am responsible for supplying food How about you be in charge of making the fifty-fifty split? Thank you for your cooperation. I am worried about the ring Some foods have not been introduced to Dayu in this era. If you take it out rashly, it will easily make people suspicious. Now there is a cemetery as a cover Then I can use whatever ingredients I have now. Who is Jiang Lulu? It's her. She is Lady Jiang Lulu. Catch her now. Who wants Zhang Luoluo? It's her. She is Zhang Luoluo. Catch her now. Did you recognize the wrong person? Yang Luoluo, someone reported you Mr. Hu Hai This is physical evidence Now we have the witnesses and evidence Come with us to the Yamen Hey, where's your evidence? The evidence was eaten by this bystander Is it your high hair? Let me go, I clearly saw you trying to poison Baidu Poisoning Lady She is full of life now Can't you prove my innocence? There is absolutely no problem with the dishes Miss Jiang cooks. It was this Lin Yin who pretended to be someone else. I almost misunderstood General, it must be that after eating raw food Lost consciousness Your Miaoyun Sword can also testify You asked her to go. Well, since my lady is fine, Misunderstandings are all misunderstandings My Lord, this is me. Xiang Luoluo, don't go too far Do you think I came back alive? Can we pretend nothing happened? So what? You'll never find a witness. Xiang Luoluo, if you want to blame someone, blame yourself for being so lowly Still want to hook up with the son You have to blame yourself for everything. Just in time Save me from having to go to the government office Mr. Kui Liu Miaoyun and Lin Yi impersonated me Ruining my reputation And asked Xiao Si to kill me Pretend that I'm disgraced and then commit suicide Trying to hide the truth She is the one who escaped from the capital Xiao Si was caught again You are talking nonsense grown ups It was Jiang Luoluo who framed me What are you still standing there for? You want me to kick you? I said it was Liu Miaoyun who ordered it. She said she said she gave me a pack of drugs And a big bag of money Let me kill Jiang Luoluo Then he pretended to commit suicide and left the capital No, it's not like that. Dad, don't hide. Please save me! Miaoyun, you are confused It's because Dad didn't teach you well. You've made such a big mistake now How can Daddy protect you? I feel ashamed to call you dad OK Don't act. Making a sheep stick under the young master's nose Still a little tender Take them all away Don't be a prince I beg you to save me For the Queen's sake I'm so embarrassed I know, forget it. Sister Yu, forget it. Okay, let's go. Miss Jiang, now that the truth has been revealed We must cooperate well in the future Farewell Lord Why does she call you Lord? I'll take you to see someone. oops You haven't told me why she calls you Prince. Have you seen a doctor for your hand? how's it going Watched No big deal You saved me this time I will cook for you in the future You don't have to work hard to perform and sell your body at night. This is the person I want to take you to see. Bai Xiaosheng Jiangnan People Come to participate in this God-eliminating Conference Coincidentally, Jiang Luoluo is also from Jiangnan I'm here to participate in the God Elimination Conference. I said you looked so familiar. So we are both from Jiangnan. ah That's why I brought you here. I said it looked familiar. you Isn't he the waiter in Jiangnan Zuixianlou? You are the waiter Why didn't you admit it before? This prince Don't get excited If you have something to say, please talk it over Oh my god This dog man hasn't explained the prince's affairs clearly yet. What if she is really a royal relative? If I admit it Isn't it just rushing forward? Are more than a dozen people going to die in Zuixianlou? I won't admit it even if you kill me Does she have any concerns? So I can't say it directly. I'll go block the door How much hatred and resentment must this bring? Don't worry, no one else is talking here. That uh When did you see me in Zuixianlou? Three years ago, right? Three years ago At that time, I just helped dig the field in Zuixianlou for two months. Later I changed my career and became a fortune teller. It has nothing to do with Zuixianlou Dog Man Please let poor Zuixianlou and poor me go. Really, if I lied to you I can't eat three dishes in my life Is this all just a coincidence? I eat three dishes and one soup Uh uh this Do you know which prince she is? You're still the chef here. I don't know this She is the boss behind the Wanhua Restaurant. The most powerful king in the world, Cheng Wang The most powerful king in the world today It's over. It's over. It's all over Legend has it that King Cheng was decisive in killing people. Cruel He's an absolute demon. So persistent in finding me If I'm discovered What a miserable death that would be. In fact, she is not a prince. I am the King Chen She is the king's staff We can't afford to offend King Cheng's staff. Go back to the best strategy Where are you going? I lost my keys. go back Not a big deal actually. Your Master But a woman yes Do you know where she is now? I don't know if I've seen it since Zuixianlou. Since Xiaoluolou is the land there There must be correspondence Palace Lock Jiao Luolou You are now the chef of Wanhua Restaurant. 7 Books available for signing Selling Concubine No Lu Qing went to prepare a strange book for her It's a son Thank you, Lord Before my sister's death I want to take a shower and change clothes To show respect Very soon. Very soon. Keep the green mountains No worries about firewood So good looking It's not a pity to just play the pipa Why don't you play the piano with me? Haha It's your blessing that my master likes you Follow me What are you doing? snort Why I didn't realize this little lady was quite pretty. I don't mind, sir. I warn you Speak politely After all, I am the chef of Wanhualou. I've offended this girl. I don't mind Put some ants and cockroaches in your chives to make them more delicious Brother, this woman is too stubborn. Let's retreat. Retreat. Hey, brother Sister Lolo Small things Small things Protect yourself in the future This girl ran away first See you later. Don't talk about Pipa anymore. Change career I heard that the delegation from the Western Regions came to Dayu for peace talks. The leader is the Princess of the Western Regions We also brought the famous Western Region chef Ximen Yan Oh, no wonder the prince suddenly held a banquet in the palace Guangzhao famous chefs from the top ten restaurants in Beijing Put her investors directly in the top six of the Cooking God Conference Directly enter the final palace examination What you two said is true. The imperial edict is still posted on the wall of the imperial city. But whether it is a banquet or a test That's all secondary. How about the two countries getting along? That's the real thing Although King Cheng is brave and good at fighting What a pity Disfigured on the battlefield in early years And the princess of the Western Regions is stunningly beautiful. I don't know why She only likes the king I love her deeply Wait, you're saying the king was disfigured. Yes, when King Cheng was young, he first entered the military camp. Encountering the enemy, Tiger Tiger was disfigured since then King Cheng then showed himself with a mask Geng man looks like a dog That Bai Xiaosheng doesn't look like Hui Guolong Neither of them can become king. Who is the prince Liu Miaoyun is? Two liars Son meets father Wang Er is here Princess Linlang's debut is bigger than you It's the old times Let's stay at Mead's house for a few days. Rumor has it that the prince was burned at the scene Burnt Only in a mask I didn't expect this to be the face under the mask. King Twenty-Two Fights in Armor To make the county committee members who are still alive less murderous I had no choice but to wear a ghost mask to intimidate the enemy. I don't know why There were rumors of disfigurement among the people The princess has not yet married Placed in Erchen's House I'm afraid something is wrong What's wrong? You and I have fought on the battlefield. Your Majesty, you should know that this princess is upright and aboveboard. Let others say whatever they want. Princess Linlang is indeed a woman who is as good as any man. The emperor and princess have spoken Let's do it this way The son receives the order Yoona You take Princess Linlang to the side hall for dinner first. It's the father, the princess, please Father Huang Er Shen lost his senses half a year ago Cause old illness I had no choice but to stay in the capital to find a cure. To prevent border unrest Self-narration as an assistant to King Cheng The fewer people know your identity, The better. I understand your concerns. Princess Kong Linlang and I confessed your identity Promise not to disclose Father, do you think the Western Regions are trustworthy? Northern Qi is watching closely What about the Western Regions? And frequently showed goodwill I have guarded the border for more than ten years. The clearest Hard to imagine Just using each other temporarily I have to attend the palace banquet in the Western Region tomorrow. He was also known as the King's staff. I think Princess Linlang will understand I also know that you have no intention towards Linlang I don't force it But on the surface, we must first stabilize Xi Yu I understand Farewell Father I don't know how to call you outside. random Since the Battle of Nanshan Pass I haven't seen you for two years. Have you ever missed someone? Oh yeah This king will place the delegation in Xishan Convenient travel in the past Quiet environment Closest to the city It is quiet and free from rumors. This princess is not a spoiled girl. Why are you afraid of rumors? Hey, second brother How can you be so inhumane? What do you think of the woman in Wanhua Restaurant? The new chef is not like that. What woman? Princess Linlang seemed to be dissatisfied with the food in the imperial kitchen. Not very interested Why not go to Wanhua Restaurant? By the way, let's try the new chef's taste good This princess has long wanted to see the best wine in the world This princess wants to see Which vixen dares to seduce this princess? snort We should really do our best to be a good host. Princess please The position of the crown prince has not yet been decided. If Li Chengguang really and Princess Linlang and Qing Chengguang Xiyu will definitely become Li Chengguang's assistant The King and His Majesty Will always be suppressed by Li Chengguang I will never allow this to happen. Sister Luo Luo, someone is here to see you. Busy at work Please do not disturb me next time. The person who is looking for you is the princess of the Western Regions That's the one The Princess of the Western Regions of Hecheng Wangye Heqing said Exploring the Cai Family in the Western Regions She will be the proprietress of Wanhua Restaurant in the future Take a step back Can I get the reward money? The princess got a lot of reward money. Then you have to go Liar, why are you still here? Liar, why are you still here? It's fine if you pretend to be an aide to me. You are still deceiving the princess. You don't want to live anymore Cheng Wang Mao at noon As an aide to King Cheng, I have been ordered to welcome the Princess of the Western Regions. You still want to deceive me After the King's disfigurement Wearing masks all day That Bai Xiaosheng definitely can't be the King You are not the king's aide. You are a criminal gang. Cheating for food and drink stupid Oh, you're stupid. Because you saved me. I kindly remind you That princess is most likely the future princess. If someone finds out You're dead. So stupid How can you be like this? I don't care about you anymore Love you so much How to speak? What's your name? The princess is called Jiang Luoluo. Jiang Luoluo is the one the Fourth Prince mentioned. The woman that the prince cared about This princess wants to see what is so special about you This princess is from the Western Regions. What do you have to do to entertain this princess? Back to Princess The common woman selected 12 dishes from the Western Region State Banquet and Ming dishes respectively. They are the desert smoke, lotus and crow And you What are these? This is how you take care of this princess. If the princess is not satisfied with the food We can change it later What is the princess' taste? Didn't they say that Yanglingyuan just sent a rare sea fish? This princess wants that sea fish That fish is for the state banquet. My Ling Garden is not a small vegetable garden Why should I send you? I'm looking at you A small family atmosphere Is it an excuse to be greedy? After all, you women love to take advantage of others. What do you mean? Aren't you a woman yourself? This princess grew up on horseback. Fighting through life and death with the brothers in the barracks Apricots are like men Of course, she is different from ordinary women like you. Since you think you are a man Then what camp? Is it a cut-sleeve Did King Cheng know that his fiancee was a man? This princess disdains to be on the same level as a woman Only jealous Hiding from the fire of the soldiers Not worthy to talk to me You are really looking for trouble. You yourself are a woman No respect for one's identity as a woman He also put a hat on the woman Although I cannot fight the enemy But if there is a war I can still cook in the kitchen How dare you contradict this princess? You turned towards her We, the big fish people, naturally turn to the big fish people. What are you, a foreigner from a defeated country, so crazy about? What about the mutual respect between us? You think too much. My mouth is like arsenic Okay, you wait for me. See you in Lonely Goose City It's not that she wants to say something harsh to me. I didn't expect you to be so stupid. I still have this kind of awareness Normal women have this kind of awareness. What the hell The Princess of the Western Regions is really a weirdo That's not right. Isn't she here to marry King Cheng? How come you two are so attached to each other? I am the real king Willow is naturally Sister Luo Luo, your fish is turning over My fish What fish I heard people say Ximen Yan, who was sent from the Western Regions to attend the palace banquet this time Rumor has it that this Ximen Yan 20 years old In the Western Regions, he is the chef of the imperial kitchen. Western food is unique Ximen Banquet is famous for its unique style I don't know if anyone can come out on top. Our Dayu is not a soft persimmon Stand behind quickly You can't believe Why I signed up as the chef of Wanhualou Restaurant. Passed the inspection of the Imperial Kitchen This is the invitation sent to me by the Yangxin Palace. Why so much nonsense? You can't enter. You can't enter. Go quickly! You don't give me a good reason Just to make things difficult for me I told you there's something wrong with your strings. Stop pestering me. So as not to delay others Could the guards have wrongly accused her? He must have used a fake invitation to take advantage of the situation. Even if you sneak in, it will be a tragedy Better to leave early Don't embarrass us big fish Didn't you bring the famous Ximen Yan? Why do you still use this method against me? Overestimating one's capabilities This princess is a proud daughter of heaven You're just a slave. This princess just wants to tell you As long as I move my fingers All your preparations will fail. It's your fault that you had the heart to seduce the second young master. Why If you have time, go see the doctor. What do you mean You keep saying you are not a woman But I still have a crush on Li Er I said there's something wrong with my brain. Sharp-tongued Anyway, don't think about going in today. When will the people of Dayi need to look at the face of the Western Regions? When will the people of Dayu need to look at the face of the Western Regions? Second son I you Why did you come to the palace to commit fraud? Are you crazy? Is there anything wrong with the city king's staff participating in the industry? You are fake Of course there is a problem. King Cheng's mother I'm helping her find dishes to restore her creaminess. I'll be back in Beijing in a few days. You are a fake If you really encounter Even got choked on the spot Smile at Lolo I don't mean to hit you, sir. How dare you hide from Luo Luo? The people of Dayu are governed by their own laws and regulations Princesses of the Western Regions do not need to go beyond their ancestors' robes You really like her. Eating from within Anyone who colluded with foreign gangs would be punished according to the law. It's a princess Princess Save Me All of my subordinates will follow your arrangements, sir. Lord save me Please don't frame this princess. This princess doesn't even know you. I offended the princess for no reason. Take the princess away Princess, you treated me like this for her. You were obviously not like this before Isn't she going to marry that King Cheng? You two are planning to sneak into Chencang Well stupid You are stupid Can't you just perform your art in Wanhualou? We are husband and wife now. Although in name only But worship If something happens to you I can't hide either. Don't worry, if I go to the guillotine I must give you away first. Vicious man Foolish woman The Princess is a Heroine Phoenix Body More than enough for all the men in the world You came to see my joke. I'm here to discuss cooperation with the princess. Princess, don't be so quick to reject me. I believe that Prince Xirong must be very interested This is onion. This plant is called curare grass. Very similar to onion Even the chef in the imperial kitchen can't tell the difference. Its usage is Which restaurant are you the chef of? Why don't I remember you? Your daughter is Jiang Lulu, the chef of Wanhua Restaurant. Sure enough, he dared to stop the slave of the Fourth Prince. I must tell you that you have no meeting today. Wanhua Restaurant is the best restaurant in the world, granted by the prince himself. You are indeed quite a person. But how can I remember the chef of Wanhua Restaurant? temper I remembered She is the one who won Pan Fan a few days ago The woman who saved the imperial plaque Don't make a mistake. Pan Fan was the sixth chef in the last Chef God Conference. This little girl is young No matter how I look at it, I can't be a match for Pan Fan. Hum, the children are ordinary How could she win Pan Pan? I think he must have used some shady means. Speak with evidence How do you talk as an official? Open your mouth and come to the city king for me, Dayu, She has no time to take care of the restaurant. Then let me help the city king get rid of the evil Someone, take this man to the Dali Temple. Ahhhh Let me go. I don't accept your indiscriminate arrests. Who are you? Who is below? I think your master knows best. Stop talking nonsense I am a loyal official to the prince. Where is the master? You slandered the court in public. The official was helpless and the two people were Put this person in the Dali register torture Don't run towards her. I am wronged I can still live after the investigation is clear. If you sit back and watch I can't escape even if I pretend to be Chaochen Your eyes are uncomfortable dream If you use your cooking skills in your brain Not that stupid. What's going on? Are you still qualified to speak nonsense here? The Emperor Arrives The Emperor Arrives Meet the Lord Long live the emperor I can't run away now. I dared not to kneel when I saw the prince. I'm going to ask you to die. She has effusion in her knee joint Slow movement I'm sorry. Your Majesty has already exempted me from kneeling. Destroy it I'm tired My Lord, this man is so bold Just now insulted the subordinate Now you are disrespecting the king A heinous crime If we don't kill Disgraceful to the nation Five years ago, King Cheng and his staff defeated Northern Qi 30% off The prince issued an order Exempting King Cheng and his private staff from kneeling Hum, this is something that everyone knows about Dayu But what does this have to do with you? I am not talented This was the first order from King Cheng. What do you mean by &quot;I became a king half a year ago&quot;? But the border cannot be without surrender for a day I am the first person ordered by King Cheng. By order of King Cheng Stay in Beijing to find healing dishes ah It's my humble servant who has no eyes. Today's event ends here Please take your seats. Thank you, Lord You are really Cheng Wang's mother I heard that King Cheng was decisive in killing people. Violence Ugly as Night Tea Is the green-faced fang real? Use your brain to think never mind Don't use what you don't have. Hum, such a dirty mouth I'm afraid he's standing in front of the officer to mock him. You meet with the envoy Meet the Prince's Western Regions Mission Invited to visit the Lantern Festival with Dayu Cooking skills exchange Hope that both countries will have long-term peace and stability OK I also want to see the best chef in the world What does it look like to learn from each other? Personal start Jiang Lulu This is the best chef in our Western Region. Do you dare to compete with her? certainly Come on, please. Little Lolo The Japanese princess wants you to come but no one will come back