When it comes to video games, Mario is... You know what? This list is long enough. You've seen the runtime. If you haven't, look at that runtime! You already know who Mario is; let's skip rules so we can plumb the depths of Nintendo's And we do mean the depths. See, here at TripleJump, we don't just "Do We do all the Mario. We're not only ranking the platformers. We're not only ranking the major spinoffs. We're not even only ranking the games made We are ranking every Mario game from worst we didn't have the heart to say no. Our good friends - and fun guys - at the to get us started. Once we removed all of the ports and non-Mario-starring That was clearly too many - we need to sleep rules. For starters, we aren't counting games that they have spun off from proper Mario games. So no Donkey Kong Country, no WarioWare, no We aren't counting Satellaview games, Game prize games at Japanese arcades. We aren't counting games in which Mario Wario Land. Nor are we counting games in which he is the Peach, or Luigi's Mansion. If you want our one-word review of those three We aren't counting games from completely a guest appearance, even a headlining one, or the Olympics. We are not counting rereleases or compilations. We also aren't counting Flash games, though Maybe we'll rank those one day. I'm joking, obviously. Please, don't ask me to rank those one day. That's a lot of stuff we aren't counting, we are counting. We'll be ranking them according to critical which isn't always taken into account when Let's rank 'em. It's a-me, Ben-io. And I'm Peteruigi from TripleJump, and this to Best. 148) Super Mario World Bet you didn't expect to see Super Mario That game remains a platforming masterpiece, word "port" more loosely than anyone has completely disposable. Literally; I'm sure most people threw it The game was a set of cards with barcodes You'd scan them into the Barcode Battler You could power up "hero cards" with "item "enemy cards." In reality, though, you were just asking the was larger. There's surprisingly little information for the best. If even the internet manages to forget about 147) Mario Calculator Mario Clock Oh, the pitchforks are coming out now, I can I know, you wanted me to review Mario Calculator Properly. Like a legitimate journalist showing due respect with Mario on it. But there's really almost nothing to say. Both were available for purchase as DSiWare. They released together in the west, but Japanese than one month for Mario Clock, and I'm They feature Mario sounds and imagery, but -a calculator and a clock. Mario Calculator was slightly better value, For free. Which you didn't have to open whenever you And speaking of time, that's the last time Calculator and Mario Clock. 146) Mario Artist: Communication Kit Am I in a position to judge something that's No. Am I in a position to judge something that longer exist? No. Am I in a position to judge something that Again, no. And yet, I've got to talk about it somewhere Mario Artist: Communication Kit, like all It allowed players to share the things they to RandNetDD, the Nintendo 64DD's online as you assume it did. If you lived in Japan, owned a Nintendo 64DD, Artist games, and wanted to upload your creations fit that criteria, the Communication Kit was Me, though? I'd say it's better than a clock, and 145) Super Mario Bros. &amp; Friends: When I Grow Up It has a title suited to an edutainment game, Super Mario Bros. &amp; Friends: When I Grow Up is a coloring book. You flip through a grand total of 30 images, if your parents hate you for buying this instead The images are animated, which is a nice touch, kind of functionality you can't get with The images are themed around various professions, farmer, and zoo keeper. It might be fun to try to work out which of held since then. It also might be fun to go to Mars. I'm never going to do either of these things, 144) Mario's Early Years! Fun with Numbers I might as well point out now that you're of this list. Anyway, Mario's Early Years! was a brief who, for all we know, has received no formal In Fun with Numbers, he and his friends come be honest. Instead of learning maths or solving basic very young children. Children who aren't even aware of what numbers And because there's very little one can kids how to add or subtract, some of the lessons focusing on shapes or nursery rhymes. The game received a SNES port, which probably they owned. 143) Mario's Early Years! Fun with Letters The Mario Wiki describes Mario's Early Years! Fun with Letters as a game about literature. Allow me to educate you, dear viewer, by assuring The game, as you can see, is extremely similar the edge based on the fact that it does actually Not only do you learn the letters of the alphabet, The game also teaches basic spelling and parts Fun with Letters doesn't pad itself out did; every lesson in this game does involve Which doesn't sound all that noteworthy, Early Years! This game was also ported to the SNES, where That's a shame; the stories were really 142) Mario's Early Years! Preschool Fun I know there will be strong opinions in the Years! games is the best. I know there will be arguments. I know some of you will come to blows. But my personal favorite has got to be Preschool This game has a larger scope than the other conveying knowledge to a child who is playing It explores concepts such as colors, opposites, to be asked about in any job interview. Fans will no doubt be sad to learn that this unless Nintendo happens to announce one at All three games were eventually released as was later bundled with Card shop Plus and We'll tell you all about that one when we game from worst to best. 141) Super Mario Collection Screen Saver You youngsters may not believe this, but back to prevent our pornography from being burned That's a joke, of course; pornography had Screen burn-in was a very real problem, however, from resting too long in place. Well, not here; this was only released in You could choose from Mario and Luigi walking walking around. The possibilities were endless! You could even watch Mario and friends wigging or Mario being a total pipe tease. The collection also came with wallpapers, Wait, a clock and a calculator in the same Nintendo used to be so magnanimous. 140) I Am a Teacher: Super Mario no Sweater Jaguar Sewing Machine Embroidery-Only Software: Game Boy Color a Teacher: Super Mario no Sweater for the Embroidery-Only Software: Mario Family for programs. Did the world need two of them? Who's to say? Me, and the answer is no. However, I Am a Teacher: Super Mario no Sweater Any actual knitting was done by you as you and pondered the other paths your life could Jaguar Sewing Machine Embroidery-Only Software: the Jaguar JN-100 sewing machine, which would you, freeing up both of your hands to hold We're lumping them together here because more than once, you would unsubscribe. And you'd be right to do so. 139) Super Mario Bros. Print World Good news, princess: We found your prints! Haha...ha. I've got to be honest, that terrible joke put into Super Mario Bros. Print World. Released by Hi Tech Expressions in 1991, the banners, flyers, greeting cards, and other on them. Well, the Mario-related imagery isn't mandatory, if you didn't want to use it. Actually, we're not sure why you'd buy The package came with 100 pictures of Mario with a whopping seven different fonts to create Then you could send your creation to a dot neighborhood awake until the job was finished. The 90s were truly magical. 138) Mario's Time Machine The infamously...infamous Mario is Missing! Look for it instead on our list of Every Luigi make shortly before the heat death of the For now, you will have to console yourself and similarly terrible PC game from one year Mario travels through history to learn about figures. And there will be a quiz. That's not a joke, either; see? For a game that aims to teach children, Mario's them things that aren't true. The Mario Wiki has an extensive list of historical of "edutainment" rather suspect. Then again, the "tainment" part doesn't The SNES and NES versions are shorter, which In no timeline, however, is Mario's Time 137) Punch Ball Mario Bros. The original Mario Bros. isn't a great game, in its simplicity. Enter Punch Ball Mario Bros. to prove that makes the game noticeably worse. The history of this game is poorly documented, and may well be the earliest Mario game not It uses Mario Bros. as its foundation and The brothers can toss it at enemies and then It's exactly as riveting to play as it was Basically, it's a game for anyone who thought Punch Ball Mario Bros. also features new level to make you long for a game that wasn't 136) Mario Teaches Typing If you're anything like me, you've often thought, "This...this is the man I want Mario Teaches Typing, then, should be right Unfortunately, Mario teaches sod all in this It would be more accurate to call it "Mario The game contains a few different scenarios I weren't at risk of crushing the world which you type letters, words, and phrases. If you don't already know how to do that, he will stand idly by as you let Princess It's a weird game, and a later CD-ROM version CGI sequences that still - and I simply you typing. 135) Mario Teaches Typing 2 The CD-ROM version of the first Mario Teaches a magical typewriter. Mario Teaches Typing 2 launched with its own typewriter. Brilliant. Also, look at him using it. Is this really the guy you want teaching you This is exactly the sort of typist yelling ranked at #116 should clearly have been ranked Anyway, Mario Teaches Typing 2 is an expanded all of the stages and assets. The difference? It has a color-coded on-screen keyboard to also includes customizable lesson plans. Which means...it actually teaches typing. It took four years and three versions of the Typing finally does the bare minimum we'd It's still rubbish though, obviously. 134) Mario's Game Gallery Released in 1995 and then again in 1998 as emphasized "fun" because the game sure is a...gallery. Of games. Featuring Mario. You probably didn't need me to explain that The collection includes draughts (or checkers Go Fish, dominoes, and a version of Yahtzee want to pay for the name Yahtzee. Everything plays well enough, but surely these with a guy wearing the same clothes he just Also, Mario refers to Toads as "Little Toadies," that again. The game was developed by Interplay, which to Fallout. Is it too much of a stretch to suggest that world's most beloved post-nuclear role-playing Yes. 133) Mario Bros. Special With Punch Ball Mario Bros., Hudson Soft made worse than the original. Here, though, they made a version that was...less-significantly Progress. Mario Bros. Special does sort of retain the simple appeal up the experience are more frustrating than Conveyor belts, trampolines, shifting platforms, gameplay as make it more agonizing. These concepts work well in side-scrollers, you must carefully out-maneuver enemies, they It's nice that the game retained simultaneous player's time to begin with. And, hey, it was the closest thing PC players That is, as long as you ignore all of the also got... 132) Super Mario Bros. Special Don't let the name trick you into thinking Bros. It's actually a sequel, and it's enhanced in the neck might "enhance" your evening. Developed by Hudson Soft, Super Mario Bros. Special adds elements of the original Mario One might think that such a mash-up would And then one might actually play the game. Super Mario Bros. Special unintentionally revealed just how PCs of the era. This game's colors are nowhere as rich, issues, it lacks a two-player mode, and the in a side scroller. It does contain new levels and the first powerup it's a pale imitation of the game that made 131) Mario Kart Tour Somewhere on this list, Mario Kart: Super it is no longer the worst Mario Kart game. Yes, Nintendo gave that honor - possibly This is the mobile game that answered the buttons?" The answer was, "Very poorly; thanks for It looks nice, and the ever-expanding pool But the game has been criticized for lacking and only being playable in portrait mode. Updates corrected these things to varying per year Gold Pass. You can buy an actual Mario Kart game - y'know, and you wouldn't have to pay for it again Thankfully Nintendo's other dalliances in Well, maybe not all of them. 130) Mario no Photopi If you've ever wondered why Nintendo never you didn't know Nintendo made a sequel to lucky. Mario no Photopi was released only in Japan Mario no Photopi was overcomplicated and confusing. Also, whereas Mario Paint let you draw with 64 controller. Drawing with that thing was slightly more with a 12-foot-long pencil attached to your The main draw of Mario no Photopi was the cards, which could be plugged right into the You could then manipulate and print those make the process as cumbersome as possible. Also, Mario no Photopi had a tile puzzle. Mario Paint had Gnat Attack. I rest my case. 129) Photos with Mario As a free download, it's difficult to be It certainly isn't good, or worth the 11 with it, but it's easy enough to ignore. The 3DS app takes advantage of the handheld's interesting ways. You can use cards to spawn different Mario did cost money, you could also print them far less expensively. Viewing the cards through the 3DS allowed Once you've done that, you've experienced Of course, you could pose with Mario - or, - which might expand the game's appeal You know, I think I was wrong earlier; it's Mario at all! 128) Mario Clash What is a Nintendo console without Mario? Sometime between Nintendo developing the Virtual Boy would flop - so, somewhere within that Mario Land. It got far enough along that attendees of were treated to some footage. It was never finished, of course. Instead, Nintendo took one of VB Mario Land's Mario Clash. And by "fleshed that out into Mario Clash" together as Mario Clash." It's not terrible, but it is almost daringly It's a repetitive score-attack game that interesting. It's not the Virtual Boy Mario game anybody Boy to begin with, very few people hold that 127) Famicom Grand Prix: F-1 Race If you're waiting to see where this game's F-1 Race - I'm going to have to disappoint Despite this game and its sequel featuring I mean, there are probably drivers in them, gain a true Mario connection until it was Kingdom denizens would pop up to congratulate This game, Famicom Grand Prix: F-1 Race, does See? There he is on the box! Get a good, long look at him there, because game. Actually, wait, is that him there? Looking like he just ate something he shouldn't The game is a decent top-down racer, and it's means a rarity on this list. 126) Alleyway Do you like Breakout? No? Oh, sorry...I was expecting you to answer This is embarrassing. How about Arkanoid, do you like that one? No again? Hm. Right, well, can't say I'd recommend Alleyway, It's a stretch to call Alleyway "a Mario Hell, it's a stretch to call it a game. But since we're shown that Mario pilots do play as him, and we're stuck including We understand Nintendo's desire to plop handheld, but it would have been nice if they'd Mario universe. Mario himself is already known for breaking Couldn't they have done more than stick As it stands, though, Alleyway does an excellent Game Boy's cartridge slot. 125) Mario Pinball Land Mario Land is fun. Pinball is fun! And yet here we have Mario Pinball Land right Surely this must be some sort of mistake! No, unfortunately; endlessly slapping Mario you progress is not really all that much fun. It's far from the only time Nintendo married game. Kirby, Pokemon, and even Metroid Prime all In those cases, however, there were actually...y'know, Here, poor Mario needs to have his spine shattered game to even exist. The mechanics of pinball serve as more of to accomplish anything. Reviewers at the time were not impressed, for praise. Looking at it now, I have to assume they were 124) Mario's Tennis Well, we never thought we'd have to write after covering it in our Virtual Boy video, new words about a game in which you move left Mario's Tennis is nowhere near as good as not least because there's precious little To be honest, there's not all that much boiled down to almost Atari-levels of simplicity. With so little content and such a low skill if not for having Mario in the title. So, sure, swat some balls with Yoshi, wonder for this, and never think about it again. That's my plan, at least. 123) Wrecking Crew Developed in that brief window between Mario's that character's games would be like, Wrecking our hero. Here he is a demolition man. NOT THAT ONE. Wrecking Crew is a puzzle platformer in which in each stage, all the while besieged by walking What do these eggplant men wear to work? Auber-jeans. Please hold your applause. It's a challenging game, as destroying some but it's not particularly good. Later stages seem to try to defeat you through and the appearance of an evil foreman who doesn't make things any more fun. On the bright side, this was Mario's final almost exclusively got better from here. 122) UNDAKE30 Same Game Daisakusen Mario Version In 1985, a programmer named Kuniaki Moribe The computer game was distributed via magazine, hit. In the early 90s, it made its way to Unix, True to its name, the various versions of Then, in 1995, Nintendo added Mario heads. This game doesn't offer much beyond the its tongue out at you. But, hey, maybe that's enough. I won't yuck your yum. UNDAKE30 Same Game Daisakusen Mario Version Nintendo product. It was given out as a prize at tournaments at retailers. There was a version available for play through It was broadcast on Mondays at 5:30 p.m., in time and dying for a fix of UNDAKE30 Same 121) Mario Bros. Well, the title of the game is accurate, because Its legacy is important, though. It established Mario's name. It established that the brothers live in New And it introduced Luigi...kind of. He was created for this game, but he ended &amp; Watch title called...Mario Bros. Which isn't the same game and...let's Mario Bros. involves bopping enemies from who died because they tried to stomp a turtle. There is fun to be had here, but that fun Nintendo seems to realize this, as it's other titles as opposed to a standalone release. You can play versions of it in Super Mario Mario Advance, and Super Mario 3D World. And then you, too, can learn that it's not 120) Kaettekita Mario Bros. Mario Bros. have returned. At least, according to the title; I'm told Kaettekita Mario Bros. is an enhanced semi-sequel Owing to the title, the sponsorship, and the came to the West, you have probably already to Japan. We don't feel particularly bothered by that. It's better than the original Mario Bros., going to cover next. Kaettekita Mario Bros. adds features, improves an advertisement for Nagatanien before you're Why am I suddenly craving ochazuke nori?! There's also a mode called Nagatanien World. Hey, have I mentioned this game was sponsored Additionally, there was a high-score contest it's over now. Sorry. 119) Crazy Kong Crazy Kong Part II It's common knowledge that there were inferior But did you know that Nintendo officially Crazy Kong was the result of Nintendo being units in Japan. In 1981, Nintendo allowed Falcon to create and funneling more money back to Nintendo. Crazy Kong is, essentially, Donkey Kong, only Both companies were unhappy with its quality, year - Crazy Kong Part II, which was not the first Crazy Kong, with a few gameplay A legal battle ensued when Falcon began exporting explicitly forbade them to do. The suit was settled in Nintendo's favor, Crazy Kong in Smash Bros. any time soon. 118) Hotel Mario Yes, that's right; as much as Nintendo would Hotel Mario, Philips' bizarre door-slamming Nintendo made themselves! Does that mean it's time to reconsider Hotel Is it actually a hidden gem? Was it simply ahead of its time? For those of you playing along at home, the It can provide several minutes' worth of Critics who reviewed it upon release in 1994 Scores hovered around the 70% mark, with reviewers creativity. It's only later that Hotel Mario's reputation than COVID-19. It's by no means a good game, but it's It doesn't even rank among the worst three It's just...kind of dull, really, and if even be worth talking about today. 117) Famicom Grand Prix II: 3D Hot Rally In Famicom Grand Prix II: 3D Hot Rally, you forgiven for not realizing that; neither of Regardless, according to the game's official It's another racer that ostensibly has Mario Hooray. It's not half bad, though, and for an 8-bit 3D Hot Rally was compatible with the Famicom would make some games appear to run in 3D. It was also the only Nintendo-published game example of Nintendo under-supporting its own The game was offered to Nintendo of America, to its cutesy graphics. As a result, and because there were no other 3D Hot Rally never left Japan. 116) Mario Party Advance Is your favorite thing about Mario Party the Is the only thing you like about Mario Party Then steer well clear of Mario Party Advance, doing quests for NPCs. It's a strange game, prioritizing a disappointing Which does exist, I should point out, but Interestingly, we found a number of wikis was awarded the title of the "Worst-received but we found no such reporting on any reputable Or, y'know, from Guinness. It's safe to say that even if it actually volume of crap you've had to sit through that the title would mean very little. 115) Mario Kart: Super Circuit The first handheld Mario Kart game is notable game. It was technically impressive to play something other handheld titles still compare favorably return to Super Circuit today. Its tracks are even flatter and more dull and while it's nice that four friends can to a single mode in which there are only four At least it doesn't give you a wedgie. Its most enduring legacy is the introduction In this case it's just stages from the SNES would be a welcome opportunity to reimagine That's one positive about Super Circuit, to appreciate it. 114) Mario Party: The Top 100 Having 100 games from previous Mario Party great. Sorry, my mistake; it sounds like Nintendo of scraping together a few extra bucks. And, what do you know, that's exactly what We debated leaving Mario Party: The Top 100 It's sort of a collection, but it's also We decided to cover it, mainly because we it. The minigames do feature improved graphics like an excuse to get another title on shelves It holds a 59% ranking on Metacritic and an on GameRankings. Ironically, Mario Party: The Top 100 doesn't games. Actually, is that irony? I don't know. Nobody knows. 113) Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash When it comes to poorly received Mario games, the charm, the novelty, or the inventiveness Not so with Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, which The main problem with the game was how little With the WiiU's struggles, you would think a must-have Mario Tennis game. Instead, they released just about the emptiest This was even more galling when you realize available through the WiiU's Virtual Console What little - and it was very, obnoxiously was easily counteracted by the sheer wealth 112) Paper Mario: Sticker Star Say the words "Sticker Star" to a Nintendo them in the eye. Seriously, I have tried both of these things While Super Paper Mario was a bit controversial evidence that Nintendo never wanted anybody Its puzzles require trial and error, key items again before you can move on, everything you yes, we know all of that. So, for once, let us focus on the positives. Uh. Erm. Huh...well, the soundtrack is good. And...hmm. Some of the visuals are kind of nice. And...ahh...the music that plays when you But I suppose that's just the soundtrack Uh...it ends eventually? That's got to count for something. 111) Mario Artist: Talent Studio The second Mario Artist title seems to be The idea is that you create human characters It's intriguing - this would have been creators of the time - but ultimately it You could feed actual photos of people into you ever wanted to sleep again. With RandNetDD you could upload your abominations Well, to the rest of Japan. Well, to the rest of Japan who had RandNetDD Studio creations of complete strangers. Also, you'd better be quick about uploading operational for a grand total of around 14 Pity the kids who had this and didn't wait That's a much sturdier platform for uploading 110) Mario Party: Island Tour The handheld versions of Mario Party will It's simply a fact that gathering friends always be more fun than playing it alone, Having said that, Mario Party: Island Tour Play capabilities, meaning four people can with only one copy of the game. You'll still need four 3DSes, of course, Less nice is the selection of games, which standouts. There's also the fact that if you do have place, it's probably worth popping a proper about with an underwhelming one. It is, however, a must-play if you've ever 109) VS. Super Mario Bros. Nintendo's 1984 System allowed the company arcades. It's unlikely that Nintendo saw arcades likely these served as demo units that would games of their own. Super Mario Bros. made sense as a port to System, but that doesn't mean it worked Actually, let me be clearer: Super Mario Bros. Super Mario Bros. is not an easy game, but Enemies were replaced with trickier variants, to increase the challenge, and many 1-Ups What's more, arcade owners could adjust and give the player fewer lives. These represented only a few additional layers less fun. 108) Mario Party: Star Rush Did we need another Mario Party for the 3DS? Nope, but here we are! Star Rush is at least a little bit interesting, Which sounds disgusting, but I didn't name Here, all characters move at the same time, a bathroom break. The main problem is that outcomes rely even with the player who moves farthest at the Other modes - ranging from racing games unfortunate that there's so little strategy Also, I know you're waiting with barely this game's free companion app, Mario Party: going to mention it briefly, because in this Mario Party than we spent with our loved ones 107) Wrecking Crew '98 Wrecking Crew '98 is neither an updated a sequel. It's now a match-three puzzle game, more Which is good, because Panel de Pon was fun one week left to live and you had to spend The game includes the requisite Mario imagery, especially fun to play. Whereas games like Dr. Mario and, of course, you can focus directly on creating chains a character who interacts with the game board, that doesn't really make the game any more As one might expect, it's better in competitive strong as Nintendo's other puzzle games. 106) Super Mario Bros. 2 The original version of Super Mario Bros. which we won't see on this list for some The common explanation is that Western players This is true, if you ignore the fact that regardless of their difficulty. And the fact that other games were actually The likelier reason this didn't come westward As Nintendo was conquering the North American the company's strongest ambassador. An incremental sequel like this one might was still reeling from the effects of the Nintendo needed more than a harder version that the NES was worth sticking with. As such, everyone outside of Japan got a different, which has entirely overwritten this one in And thank God for that. 105) Paper Mario: Color Splash After Sticker Star, Nintendo had two options. They could either have listened to the fans roots, or they could have released Color Splash. No points for guessing what they decided to Just about everything that fans disliked about The lack of RPG mechanics, the gimmicky combat, Splash was the firm declaration that the series of the first two games. Overall, though, this one reviewed better Critics were grateful for the paint mechanic, sticker mechanic because it actually did something. The writing was also seen as an improvement, a given. Few people liked Color Splash, but at least At this point in the series, that qualified 104) Yoshi's Cookie We're sure Nintendo was tempted to call a game about Mario matching cookies and all, It was ported to the Game Boy and the SNES, Yoshi no Cookie: Kuruppon Oven de Cookie. Forgive me if I accidentally pronounced that Yoshi's Cookie involves shifting rows and them, which I'm sure Mario is doing for The game was originally released as in arcades This version was alchemy-themed and met with Bullet-Proof Software scooped it up from the cram some recognizable characters in there, Only joking; nobody cares about Yoshi's 103) Family Computer Golf: Japan Course Family Computer Golf: U.S. Course Family Computer Golf: Japan Course and Family in Japan in 1987. The titles imply that they are the same game plays differently. The titles also imply that the courses are States, but all of the courses in both games Each game was compatible with Disk Fax kiosks, "Disk Fax kiosks" is also a tongue twister, Nintendo sent prizes to the best players, games that were never released at retail. In fact, only 100 copies of the Family Computer were printed, making it one of Nintendo's The Family Computer Golf games are mainly Are they fun, though? Well, I suppose they are a FAIR WAY to spend [a beat; cough] 102) Mario Sports Superstars Mario Sports Superstars gives players the on the go in one convenient package. The problem is that fitting them into this of the fun. The sports include football, baseball, tennis, as better Mario sports titles, as you'll The one unique sport, horse racing, actually "proper" version to which we can compare Whereas the other sports are played more straight are, horse racing feels unique and allows That's not enough to save the package, of The biggest problem is the fact that a game offer any form of Download Play. Typically, Nintendo is more generous than 101) Mario Tennis Open While Mario's golf games tend to get better maintained the same upwards trajectory. Mario Tennis Open, whose title describes the out of, represents a big step backwards for of content on offer. Gone are the RPG and story elements, resulting much feel "simple" as it does "hollow." The game's big feature, the Chance Shot, to tap color of the prompt that appears on It's exactly as challenging as this other more cheaply. Critics and fans were both left underwhelmed, In fact, you could say they made a real racket. Ugh, even I want to groan after that one. 100) Mario &amp; Luigi: Paper Jam The crossover that isn't really a crossover, elements from Paper Mario, but is without through. It's also not a great one, and it was the AlphaDream released before the company folded. No pun intended. Okay...it was intended. Even removed from any associations with Paper standards of previous games in the Mario &amp; Luigi It was seen as lacking creativity and not It did introduce a Battle Card system, but it wasn't quite a net gain. Critics took issue with its poor pacing, dull own potential. It may be worth picking up for fans of the 99) Mario Artist: Polygon Studio Polygon Studio was an application with which of polygons, essentially giving them the opportunity It also contained a few models of Nintendo understand how Nintendo created the games There was an explorable 3D world, as well clearly went on to inspire the WarioWare series, utility. If you owned the Creation Kit, you could upload models of the things you built. Pretty nifty. This was the last of the Mario Artist releases, follow: Sound Maker, Graphical Message Maker, Would the latter have been an early run at It's impossible to say for sure, but no. 98) Mario Sports Mix You know what the Wii needed? A collection of sports games for casual players. Other than that one. Erm...and that one. And, oh God, other than that one, definitely. Enter Mario Sports Mix, a game that nobody The game contains Mario-themed spins on basketball, There is also a fifth game, Sports Mix, which dodgeball, and hockey. It was a rare opportunity to see Mario and it felt underwhelming at release and hasn't Critics saw it as an undercooked way to squeeze who weren't buying Metroid Prime 3, and It would mean Mario Sports Mix were good for 97) Yoshi Oh look, another Yoshi puzzle game on our to type the same thing you typed when you In Europe and Australia the game was called a better fit. In Japan it was called Yoshi no Tamago, which makes it a worse fit. You do control Mario in this game, even if You swap platters back and forth to match You can also pile them up between two halves Which allows Yoshi to eat them. Don't ask, because you won't like any The more you eat the thicc'er Yoshi gets It's nowhere near as interesting as Dr. We just wish there were a bit more to it. 96) Mario Party-e Mario Party-e is essentially a pack of cards place in reality. You know, where you are right now, even if You collect Superstar Items and then play It sounds easy but, being Mario Party, there night. This - of course - involves challenging These are accessed by scanning cards into affairs, but it's fun and the nature of that many proper Mario Party games do not. This is also the only game on this list you all; the instructions suggest flipping a coin Then again, you could just flip a coin at of the game. 95) Yoshi's Safari Yoshi's Safari is the best game for the as it's nearly the only game for the Super It's also the only game in the entire Mario Bowser full of hot lead. It's a rail shooter in which you ride Yoshi baddies in the face. Every so often there's some additional interactivity or jumping to avoid hazards - but Yoshi's gun-lust. I'm not even joking; Mario turns his gun he hasn't sated his thirst for blood. The game plays well for what it is and it's exactly why Mario works better with fireballs &amp; Koch. 94) All Night Nippon Super Mario Bros. It may look like the fan-hack to predate all Bros. was an official release developed by As the title implies, it's based on Super of the Japanese version of Super Mario Bros. Its selling point is that it stars a number All Night Nippon. If you ever felt Super Mario Bros. would have Ishibashi, Hideyuki Nakayama, Miyuki Nakajima, for you. And yes, I admit I only attempted to pronounce It's an interesting curio from a time during popularity of other franchises, rather than Stick with the main games, though. They look a lot less creepy. 93) Super Paper Mario Super Paper Mario is a game about constantly we cannot possibly care about. I mean, maybe there's something else to it. I'm joking, at least partially. Super Paper Mario had the idea of combining It's not a perfect fit, but it's an interesting Unfortunately, it also tried to combine a simple platformer, and that doesn't work The pacing is a mess, with back, keeping you Even a fairly unique dimension-shifting mechanic If you ever wondered why nearly all core Mario this is your answer. The one time Nintendo attempted to weave a never shuts up. Let's be thankful for what we've got, 92) Mario Party DS The final Mario Party game to be developed the final Mario Party game worth playing - Mario being the best game in the series designed It would be a bit much to say Hudson went a reason to miss them. Mario Party DS had creative boards, enjoyable that people didn't hate. What's more, the multiplayer experience welcome balance of luck and strategy. It also looked pretty great. Again...for a handheld... The critical response essentially boiled down and advising those who did not enjoy Mario Which we probably could have figured out on 91) Mini Mario &amp; Friends: amiibo Challenge We intended to evaluate these games only on That's because taking into account all ports than the originals - would only make them And also because this list is long enough the time you've finished watching it. Mini Mario &amp; Friends: amiibo Challenge, though, on both the 3DS and WiiU, and there isn't Making ranking even more difficult is the requires amiibos to play - which is...less If you already have an amiibo or two, though, spend a few hours fooling around with. It's inoffensive and a fine bonus. Fortunately, this was the only game Nintendo IT OUT OF MY EYES!!! 90) Mario Tennis Most Mario sports games have a high degree Nintendo 64 doesn't seem all that interested I mean, beyond the baseline whimsy that comes tennis. Mario Tennis is, for the most part, a pretty If that's what you're looking for, you're But if you're picking up Mario Tennis for with a small handful of side modes. It's neither a bad game nor an especially the world to Waluigi. You may have forgiven it, but we have not. Interestingly, an evil version of Peach called cooler heads prevailed. At least, we think that's what happened. The citation for that fact led us here, so on this one. 89) NES Open Tournament Golf Apologies to the die-hard fans of 1984's here. Yes, the golfer in that game has been referred him on the cover of the Game Boy version, established the golfer as a completely different Thank you, Captain Rainbow. NES Open Tournament Golf is a solid if unremarkable removed from the Mario golf titles still being It's mainly notable for its historical significance, Its sprite design was Eiji Aonuma's first helms the Legend of Zelda series. It was also the first game developed from who would go on to serve as the fourth president 88) Super Mario Land Containing only 12 levels, being tragically Super Mario Land is pretty underwhelming to The soundtrack is nice, and I'll always turtles, but the game ends long before it This does make sense. The Game Boy was new hardware, and Nintendo could do. It wouldn't be until this game's sequel but it's interesting to watch Nintendo experiment Nearly all of them were dropped because they're Weirdly, Nintendo's eShop page for the Virtual "giant crabs." There are no crabs in Super Mario Land, giant Please join me in my class-action lawsuit. 87) Mario Tennis The Game Boy Color version of Mario Tennis, port, actually ended up being a better experience While the visuals can't compare to the Nintendo and is much more satisfying to master. The pick-up-and-play nature of the game works single-player story mode with RPG elements The story isn't anything too spectacular; on a personal quest to become better at the up a racket every ten months or so. Still, though, it is a fun mode, and the gradual feel more central to the experience than they Toss in some great music and pixel art, and 86) Super Mario Run Nintendo waited a very long time to get into for the best, honestly. Remember early mobile games? There was Snake, and then there was everything By the time Nintendo embraced the platform, something special. Instead, they made Miitomo, which was moderately door to door punching people's dogs. Super Mario Run followed in the same year, It was also free of the in-game monetization It was a bit too easy and far too short, though. A sequel could have fleshed things out significantly, another Super Mario Run. Also, the listing advertises it as a "Mario Which, hey, I'm not judging you, but maybe 85) Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit As a showcase for augmented reality, Mario Nintendo managed to turn the simple pleasure of Mario Kart, complete with all of the wackiness Cameras mounted on each of the real-life vehicles and even AI opponents into your home. It's impressive just how much actual Mario themes, cups, and difficulty settings translating Where it stumbles is in the logistics required. The game gets significantly less fun and interesting home, and with everyone needing their own player. Those are significant limitations, even if Those with tiny homes or tight budgets should 84) Paper Mario: The Origami King With true RPG mechanics and combat a thing really hope for is that whatever gimmick Nintendo to justify a spin. That's what we get here. It's not the sequel anybody was asking for, for the series, it at least provides some It's larger and more involved than the previous more substantial experience. The "folding" theme is also better than two games, but we do worry that Nintendo is of paper. The combat, as is to be expected nowadays, overcomplicated. If this is what Nintendo is doing with the it a little bit better. 83) Mario and Donkey Kong: Minis on the Move Instead of Mario vs. Donkey Kong, Minis on and Donkey Kong" banner. Which you'd think might imply some sort And it does...though the only real change the series is replaced here by something more The object of the game is still to guide Minis and shifting tiles on the 3DS touch screen. It's a simple premise that does manage to game progresses, but neither fans nor critics forward for the series. There are several modes and some optional but it doesn't measure up to the earlier did not catch on for future installments. 82) Mario Tennis Aces Critics and fans were quick to praise Mario not Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash. The box could have been empty and it would But Mario Tennis Aces really does feel like For one, the game has content. Really, that is a selling point. It also has a charmingly wackadoo story, a new courts, and much better online offerings. NintendoLife's review summed it up thus: Monkey Island's worth of living without its kit bag with activities until the zip's like a smartly volleyed can of energy drink." I couldn't have said it any better myself. Mainly because I have no clue what they mean. 81) Mario Party 10 What could possibly save the WiiU? If you answered "a mediocre party game," Mario Party 10 is one of the most poorly received With 66% on Metacritic and 64% on GameRankings, 8, but we're pretty sure critics were taking game. Mario Party 10 does actually do some new things, The small number of proper boards were criticized, around them in vehicles, making that aspect Additional boards were locked behind the use Bowser Party was the game's single redeeming and four others attempting to survive his It was an innovative concept, but it was bolted 80) Mario's Picross Mario's Picross 2 We debated excluding all of the Picross games It very obviously has nothing to do with Mario a hammer. We ultimately decided that because the game be remiss if we didn't cover it. The direct sequel - Mario's Picross 2 story mode, and it does feel here like the We thought a nice compromise would be to include either of them again. Developed by Jupiter Corporation - the company to this very day - these are collections If you like nonogram puzzles...well, here's 79) Mario's Super Picross Don't worry; this is the last Picross title There's only so much one human being can their corporeal form and become a beam of If you're not familiar with nonograms, I fully before one of us dies. Suffice it to say that they are logic puzzles in the grid should be filled in and which Mario's Super Picross looks better than not portable. There are also Wario puzzles, which are a won't be alerted to any mistakes. Nintendo's Picross games have lost their is still kicking, meaning you can now solve judging your performance. 78) New Super Mario Bros. 2 New Super Mario Bros. was a system seller Creating a sequel for the 3DS made sense for In fact, that reason was so obvious that Nintendo Your goal in New Super Mario Bros. 2 is to That might seem like a goal Wario would have, and rescuing Peach, reminding you that you're good guy. The game's focus on coin-collection meant of money everywhere, spilling out of blocks, (See a doctor if that happens, by the way.) The fact that 100 coins still gave you an was rendered moot out of the gate. It's by no means a bad game and, in many New Super Mario Bros. title, but it does feel 77) Mario Kart Arcade GP VR Of all the Mario Kart arcade games, Mario Overall, it feels like a very impressive proof Who hasn't wanted to wipe out on a banana A proof of concept is all it really is, though. The game features exactly one track, which Each cabinet also allows you to play as exactly There's a good deal of variety within those Mario Kart after a single lap and feel satisfied There are also only three items, which adds It's not all that easy to find in the wild, Maybe it's preparing us for a full-scale I'd enjoy that. Until then, though, this is just an impressive 76) Mario Party 8 Mario Party backlash was in full swing by hammering it for flaws that had been present Don't get me wrong; by the time of the eighth the series to evolve, but by no means is it It holds 62% on Metacritic, with the low scores than anything specific to Mario Party 8. Yes, it's a minigame collection on the Wii in ways you would regret if anyone walked are fun, and you can use your Mii in dedicated Also, the game contains the Koopa's Tycoon Party with some basic ideas lifted from Monopoly. The result combines chaos with strategy to 75) Mario Hoops 3 on 3 I'd assume a large percentage of Mario fans game, but that's not surprising; Nintendo A Mario game without any kind of sequel is game got a sequel, remember - and it's in solitude. It's not great, but it certainly could have throwaway title. The Mushroom Kingdom sportsmen OR SPORTSWOMEN Fantasy. And yes, that's character types and not Don't ask me why. Maybe Square Enix wasn't thrilled with this Mario Hoops 3 on 3 is definitely a fun and but it also feels slight for a Mario game 74) Mario Power Tennis Mario Power Tennis is a huge step up from it's still not quite up to the level of Critics adored its sense of humor, its improvements its chaotic multiplayer matches. The game was rereleased for the Wii as a New adding motion controls and automating much Bold move, porting a game for the express Mario Power Tennis is not perfect, but it on the tennis court. Really, how many tennis games does this guy Ten. Is the answer. Ten is. Listen, you try writing separate entries for better you do. 73) Mario Kart: Double Dash!! GameCube We know that, because no matter where we put get yelled at. It's an understandably polarizing game, series and others believing it's one of We think it's...neither of those things. It's a game with excellent ideas but which The primary gimmick of Double Dash!! is that The secondary gimmick is that each vehicle play, with one player driving and the other This is a great concept, but neither driving fun on its own. Double Dash!! is a strange outlier in Mario one Nintendo is interested in returning to. That's okay; I'm not that interested, 72) Mario Golf The first Mario golf game that was actually start of the series proper. It owes a lot to the innovative simplicity now has that distinctive Mario flair and a defeating them in head-to-head matches. Critics enjoyed it, praising it for its accessibility The fact that it lacked the complexity of point rather than a detriment. It earned an impressive 91% on Metacritic, It was an excellent start to a series that me I can't work out why Nintendo didn't I mean, the titles write themselves. Links to the Past, Links Between Worlds, The Call me, Nintendo. I think I can teach you so much. 71) Mario Tennis: Power Tour IGN called Mario Tennis: Power Tour the best library. That's...not saying much, to be honest, nice. The game has a story mode, though it's a Who exactly are you training up to beat? I'll give you a hint: His name is in the Where the game shines, though, is in its stripped-down understand but has an impressively high skill It also still has the largest roster in any Critics were disappointed that the matches game already had lovely sprites at its disposal, That's a tennis term, right? I've heard tennis people say that, definitely. 70) Super Mario Maker It's difficult to rank Super Mario Maker, from fans. As a level-design tool, it's fun, simple, Its sequel outdoes it in practically every community levels...well, the sequel outdoes Not least because nobody can upload new courses Fan creations would tend to gravitate either and fiendish, and rarely were they any fun. Super Mario Maker seemed like it might give designers, but it only ended up proving that We are lumping the later 3DS release in with people who owned a WiiU already bought the copies. Greedy, greedy. 69) Super Mario Maker 2 Super Mario Maker 2 is similar to its predecessor, more as far as course design goes. There are more enemies, more items, more level of Super Mario Bros. 2, so that Nintendo can forgotten the game; they just don't care Super Mario Maker 2 offers more than just of design. This doesn't mean that the ratio of great but it does mean that the great ones have There's also a story mode, which was a strange since it does an admirable job of teaching to cram them with hazards and laugh. 68) Mario Party 5 Most of the criticism levied at Mario Party has received as a whole. Not much changes from game to game, assets et cetera. Well, let me tell you something, Mr. Critic. You know what else isn't fun without friends? Life! Go make friends, ya dingdong. Mario Party 5 fared more harshly than most, It wasn't all bad news, though; critics which had an orchestral feel before the series The game's dream-like setting and appearances over well. Unfortunately, fatigue was setting in and that the series was beginning to stagnate. 67) Super Mario Bros. 2 The Western version of Super Mario Bros. 2 Doki Panic. Did you know that? Of course you did, but all video game channels at least once. This worked out well, as Yume Kojo: Doki original Super Mario Bros. 2, even if it was The game looked better, the levels were more as four characters instead of two. Nintendo did make some tweaks, such as inserting it so you could complete the game without In return, the game introduced its own elements Bob-Ombs - and Peach's predilection for All these years later, Super Mario Bros. 2 a darned enjoyable one. 66) Mario Golf Mobile Golf As with Mario Tennis, we're ranking the than the Nintendo 64 version. The Nintendo 64 game obviously looks and sounds for preferring it, but it's again the RPG The depth of the mode came as a surprise to game a perfect 10. Critics enjoyed the exploration and customization excellent addition to an already pretty sturdy There was also a follow-up called Mobile Golf, entry to, as there is so little information It did come with an adaptor that allowed you Considering the state of wireless connections left quite a bit to be desired, but kudos 65) Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again! DSi not be played on a standard DS. So few, in fact, that when we ranked every give it its own entry. It did, however, have downloadable DSiWare. Most DSiWare was...what's a polite word Doesn't matter; point is, Mario vs. Donkey DSiWare titles that was worth playing. The nature of that service meant that the vs. Donkey Kong in a significant way: It removed of the Minis. This shifted the emphasis entirely to the the Minis march...again...towards the exit. It's not quite a must-play, but it was inexpensive series. 64) Super Mario Strikers Soccer? I hardly know her! I know even less what that joke means! In 2005, Nintendo tried to find a sport Mario The only remaining three were jai alai, cheese Or football, if you want to actually be correct Nintendo made the wrong choice, introducing hooliganism immediately wiped out half the Critics enjoyed the game, mainly singing its a 76% average on Metacritic. Mario's first football game was also nearly Mario's genitals, but, unfortunately, the And no, we did not make that up. I think they missed a trick, though, by not World Cup. See? I know enough about football to end this entry matters. 63) Donkey Kong Donkey Kong is Mario's very first adventure, know him today. Well, kinda. Donkey Kong was also, debatably, the first Space Panic debuted the previous year, but If you feel that jumping is a key component will be your platforming patient zero. One of the most successful, famous, and influential birthed from a mistake. In 1980, Nintendo had shipped 3,000 Radar of them actually sold. The game flopped and Nintendo tasked a young that the cabinets could be converted to play Alongside another future video game legend, which gave video games their most recognizable for decades to come. 62) Mario Party 7 The seventh numbered game in the series - and about these games being too similar- Mario Part of the problem was that previous Mario creating and facilitating a fun party atmosphere. How, exactly, could the series improve on Well, it could make the party bigger. Mario Party 7 introduced eight-player minigames, obvious in retrospect, but which actually more than just "another Mario Party." Scores ranged from 30% to 85%, so clearly even wanted from Mario Party. It scored a 64% overall on Metacritic, which Lord knows we've seen what bad Mario Party 61) Mario Party 9 Mario Party 9 is propelled this high on the With 73% on Metacritic and 75% on GameRankings, on their own merits again rather than simply of the series. At least, that's the only explanation I better than its immediate predecessor, and the two is night and day. There are a few things Mario Party 9 does It does not rely as heavily on motion-controlled it contains boards with interesting gimmicks. Destructoid even praised it for feeling like As always, the single-player mode was singled critics having fun with the games again. We're pretty sure that was the point of 60) Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem! DS the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series from becoming Fans would almost certainly be happy with every entry introduces some new feature or In the case of Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land bridges for the Minis to follow. It's a small addition, but it opens a lot at Nintendo and for those fiddling around Speaking of which, Nintendo, the Switch has excellent fit for it. Just...putting that out there. Mini-Land Mayhem! received positive reviews being surprised by how fresh the series still I have to admit, that is an achievement on 59) Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins As often as Mario games are derided for their there are a number of notable exceptions. For instance, Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario Coins all feature Mario curb-stomping a villain Here it's because Wario stole Mario's his much more traditional adventures. How a plumber can afford a castle - and his finances - is something I cannot answer. In order to regain his throne - again, this - Mario must platform his way through a Wario's skull. It's far from the most memorable Mario adventure, if you try to play it with your eyes closed, It's also the only time you can explore 58) Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour If you don't count Mario Kart as a sports series Nintendo has. And yet, on the whole, it's a simple one, simply because there isn't all that much Early in the NES era, Nintendo nailed the game of golf. They haven't deviated from that basic formula There's little room for improvement, and problems. And so each Mario Golf game tends to refine Toadstool Tour on the GameCube adds more varied ball-spin options, but overall it's just that preceded it. And that's a huge compliment, even if it 57) Mario Strikers Charged Mario once again takes to the pitch to play It's a nice expansion on the previous game, moves, and more stadiums. Stadiums...do I mean stadia? Oh god, god no, I do not mean Stadia! The game also featured online multiplayer, Nintendo game and therefore you'd have a time. I'm being generous, I know; I'm such a Also in this game, the ball remembers how changing colors to show how powerful the next Just like in real life! Right? I don't know; again, not much of a sports did its homework. It scored 79% on Metacritic, pulling off the single-player mode. 56) Mario &amp; Wario Mario &amp; Wario is a puzzle platformer that's got to play it. It seems to have been planned for a Western it never left Japan. Perhaps Nintendo forgot they released the to play the game. Or perhaps they thought it wasn't up to not half bad. Mario and friends are trying to locate Luigi, on Mario's head. Rather than take it off, Mario decides to hoping for the best. You control Wanda, a sentient cursor, and Between levels you can play a minigame in plane crash. It's fun for the whole family. 55) Dr. Mario Isn't it insulting that people still refer after he earned his license to practice medicine? He...he has earned his license, right? The Game Boy version of Dr. Mario might be the NES version because: a) it released slightly America, b) Australia never got the Game Boy doesn't make me wonder if I've gone colorblind. Dr. Mario is a puzzle game and it's a genuinely The simple color-matching gameplay is elevated difficulty curve. It's even better with two players, in which than defeat the viruses together. You know, just like real medical research! Boot it up for a few minutes and you're been playing all night. If he does have his license, Dr. Mario should substances. 54) Mario Party Mario Party not only launched another major of imitators, very few of them successful. Nintendo's virtual board game had exactly it universally appealing, and yet was simple It reviewed well, earning 79% on Metacritic, is obvious in retrospect: As GameSpot put player mode." Which - and I say this with all due respect You might as well criticize Super Mario Sunshine The original isn't the best game, but it A bit over a year after release, Nintendo gloves as a result of, according to the settlements, and cuts." Really, though, what kind of party would it 53) Mario vs. Donkey Kong Initially developed as a direct follow-up vs. Donkey Kong spawned a series of its own. Here, Mario must navigate a series of puzzle-like by Donkey Kong's traps. They do have fun! In that sense, it's like the Game Boy game, go on to define the series moving forward. This leaves Mario vs. Donkey Kong feeling It's not quite as good or creative as the from the games focused on the Minis. It also looks rough and muddy, and that's the Game Boy Advance brought other Mario games Plus, it's full of obnoxious voice samples on the soundtrack. It's a good time and it has great level the games on either side of it. 52) Mario Golf: Advance Tour Just as the original Mario Golf did not attempt Mario Golf: Advance Tour knows better than In fact, Mario Golf: Advance Tour took the Boy Color title and improved upon what was The game looked better and sounded better, Sure, it's another sports RPG with Mario but it's a hell of a good one. Mario Golf: Advance Tour is not the deepest certainly the best example of the series' Even if you're not interested in the story, for a few holes on the go. And if anything other than golf popped into 51) Mario &amp; Luigi: Dream Team By this point, the Mario &amp; Luigi series had The tone, the combat, the narrative beats...all now. That formula was a good one, though; people what isn't broken. What is broken is how overtutorialized this Nintendo intermittently gets the urge not drag them from the beginning of the game to Dream Team is where that tendency hit the a slog to play. It interferes with the pacing, the humor, like they're spending more time being told Its gimmick - Luigi, uh...sleeps - is elsewhere in the series. It is a genuinely fun game, but boy did Nintendo 50) Mario Artist: Paint Studio Paint Studio was intended to be the "killer Since the only reason anyone ever mentions and shudder, you can probably guess how that Paint Studio is a drawing program, as you surprises. Up to four people can draw simultaneously, far more often than it led to art, but, still. You could also roam 3D worlds while taking Snap, which came out the same year. Plus, it had a banging soundtrack, as did Pre-release builds of Paint Studio made the as it contained a 3D reimagining of Gnat Attack. It actually looks like fun. Probably why they took it out. 49) Mario Party 6 Critics may have been sick of Mario Party to mind similar sequels that didn't do much I mean, it's either play Mario Party with No choice at all, really. This game introduced two things to the series: specific board, and minigames that didn't The latter was accomplished through microphone paying for a peripheral that they would never Eurogamer described it as "one of those warm Heineken and no one to talk to but people students who've just spent three months how they got dysentery in Chiang Mai, while all night glaring at anyone who tries to suggest Or, more succinctly, 71% on Metacritic. 48) Super Mario Party The Mario Party series has had some serious but Super Mario Party is an oddity. Typically, reviewers tend to judge the games Here, though, the fan response was lukewarm any other game in the series. That's still only 76% on Metacritic, but After the traffic accident that was Mario back to its roots and provide simple, engaging That's the correct impulse, certainly, but and thoroughly underwhelming online mode, Critics of course believed that this was exactly after a stretch of underwhelming games. Who is correct? Nobody, because these are opinions rather 47) Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars Another Mini Mario game that was released vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars is a much more amiibo Challenge. Here, you get precisely the sort of game you'd that require you to guide tiny tin-men to Tipping Stars had a substantial single-player uploading, and sharing levels. As the title suggests, you'd "tip" other creations. Miiverse shut down only two years after this entire aspect of the game is gone for good. Sorry! As it released on two systems, Nintendo allowed netted you a download code for the other. I hope you enjoyed it, because Nintendo will 46) Puzzle &amp; Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition Released as a solo title in Japan, Puzzle bundled with Puzzle &amp; Dragons Z in the West. This led reviewers to consider one of the when buying the other. Which game was considered the lesser one? Well, there was no real agreement on that. Many reviewers praised Super Mario Bros. Edition color-matching RPG, while others felt that had any real thought behind it. Super Mario Bros. Edition indeed feels like different series, but it works well enough It was received positively, with a rating We think that's about right. Fans of puzzle games and Super Mario Bros. If your tolerance for either of those things 45) Super Mario Bros. 35 Released at the end of 2020 and wiped from 35 was the cause of understandable frustration It was a free download, but with a limited If you enjoyed the game, you'd have it taken And if you didn't enjoy it...well, that's It was a strange decision on Nintendo's Releasing it was a way for the company to Bros., but deleting it felt more like Nintendo It was fun while it lasted, with a battle-royale-inspired to make an old experience feel new again, how good it was? It earned 75% on Metacritic. Not that it matters. 44) Mario Party Superstars After a few underwhelming Mario Party games It would probably be too much to describe so, yeah, let's just go with "whelming." They aimed to return to the things that fans us the earliest games again. I mean, you can't fault them on their logic. Mario Party Superstars includes boards from the sentence ended there; I'd assumed it Still, that's a legitimate feature for fans It also includes a selection of minigames That's also what Mario Party: The Top 100 enjoyed it. Its online functionality isn't too bad, way for old-school fans to revive their love Or grandkids. Because, face it, those games released a very 43) Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the DS first in which the gameplay revolves entirely Though these miniature, mindless mechanical this is where they became the main focus. That makes sense; Mario himself already has Or two. Or, like, six. Turning Mario vs. Donkey Kong over to the In this game, the player has more direct control games. They can be stopped, started, or given commands the environment around them and protect them It's Lemmings-inspired, to be sure, and the game has enough in the way of its own a knockoff. 42) Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Time Hey, you know those baby characters who appear on the roster even though nobody ever picks Well, here's a whole game about them! What can I say except...you're welcome? In all seriousness, Partners in Time is the an impressive debut for the system. Your mileage will certainly vary when it comes just can't go wrong with a Mario adventure Actually...no, wait. Okay, I take it back! Partners in Time is worth a spin for RPG fans in their epic quests. The babies even manage to pull their weight, options introduced in Superstar Saga. And look! You get to meet young Toadsworth. 10/10, GOTY, GOAT. Aside from the 41 games still to come, obviously... 41) Dr. Mario World We'd happily cite this as another example games, but Dr. Mario World is pretty good. Yes, it's free to play, which means I can't blows upon me, but the game was fully playable Also, it was a nice reimagining of the formula. In most Dr. Mario games, the round ends when or stacked pills to the top of the screen. In Dr. Mario World, though, you're presented stage and need to work out how to kill all It was a nice little time waster. Plus, it had. What more could you possibly want? The game to still exist, I suppose. Ah well. 40) Mario Party 2 Mario Party 2 was a significant improvement It may not have evolved the core formula very introduction of collectible items, new types on their own, and - most importantly - the little cowboys or pirates depending on the It was adorable, especially Wari-Potter over Critics enjoyed the game, with the notable unfavorable review. Probably not coincidentally, Game Informer This shook Nintendo so much that they sent appreciation to the magazine. We've been critical of your games as well, Where's our frameable tantrum? 39) Mario Party 3 Rounding out the Mario Party trilogy on the game released for the console - Mario Party Fans are split on whether or not it's superior a nod simply for the fact that it tried to that critics had bemoaned since the series' Did it address it well? No, not really. The story mode is too clearly adapted from none of the fun of playing with friends and other computer-controlled characters take It tried, however, and other features are This is the first game in the series to have the Duel Boards are a nice twist on the familiar 38) Mario Party 4 Ain't no party like a Mario Party because get to stop talking about Mario Party. Mario Party 4 moved the series to the GameCube, part. Smart because nobody was buying the Nintendo Foolish because nobody was buying the GameCube, Still, the game looks great and shows off the series closer to how it always looked The boards are also larger and more involved, the game more tedious, depending on which Overall, reviewers were split between those those who saw it as evidence that the series It scored 70% on Metacritic but did a bit 37) Super Mario Bros. It would have been silly to expect that any the video game crash of 1983, and yet that's The crash is often thought of as a North American in Japan as well. They even had their own name for it: Atari Nintendo was seeing decent success with its made the company reluctant to bring the system They eventually did so, but didn't see much Mario Bros. Probably a good move; I can't imagine the Clu Clu Land. Miraculously, the story of a plumber who killed and the game raised Nintendo's profile significantly. To this day, Super Mario Bros. is the sixth one of the most influential. Plus, it's the reason video games are around Thanks for that! 36) Super Mario Sunshine Boy, Super Mario Sunshine would be so much Glitchy and unfinished to the point that we deserved so much better than its rushed development With the GameCube sinking and dragging Nintendo what the console needed. Instead, we got about 60% of a proper Mario With Nintendo games in general and Mario games having been refined and play tested to the With Super Mario Sunshine, we're fairly cause your GameCube to explode. And yet, beyond the very rough edges, there The island setting is unforgettable, the soundtrack of the best-looking water we've ever seen It's a pity Super Mario Sunshine is held surprisingly enjoyable for what it is. 35) Super Mario Kart If you've ever wondered who would win in Super Mario Kart let you find out first hand. It turned out to be one of the defining multiplayer one of Nintendo's most beloved and enduring As well as launching an entire genre that While nearly every game to follow improved impressive just how well-formed the concept Steering an assortment of silly characters out of each other with absurd weapons turned Who'd have guessed? The original SNES release earned an incredible well deserved, considering how much work Nintendo disposable spinoff. 34) Dr. Mario 64 Sequels to puzzle games are difficult beasts. Even Tetris arguably didn't get a worthwhile The difficulty comes from the fact that puzzle Mess with the simplicity too much, and the Keep it too similar to the previous game, Or, even worse, decide to buy something else. Dr. Mario 64 does manage to improve upon the keeping the main game largely intact and introducing Four-player mode, for instance, is a no-brainer. And there's now a story mode, at last fleshing As a nice touch, not only can you also play should be responsible for handling anybody's of his own. 33) New Super Mario Bros. Prior to the 2006 release of New Super Mario was Super Mario Land 2 in 1992. This was because...well, because of everything Nintendo had struck gold with Mario's various a hell of a lot of them. New Super Mario Bros. assumed that there was adventures, and it was correct; with more best-selling game on Nintendo's best-selling game ever made. It was a critical success as well, scoring Does it hold up? Really, that depends what you're looking New Super Mario Bros. is a little light on aiming to recapture the glory days. You do however get to watch Bowser get his 32) Mario Paint 1992's Mario Paint was not the first drawing Videomation for the NES came out the year That was probably also not the first, but in the glow of its incredible box art. Anyway, the point is, Mario Paint may not easily the best. It took full advantage of the SNES Mouse not that allowed players to uncover dozens of What's more, it provided an animation studio, reason we are all here - Gnat Attack. Yes, sure, Mario Paint was fun and encouraged and creativity, yadda yadda yadda. But I want to pick up a flyswatter and dish there is nothing you can do to stop me. 31) Mario Super Sluggers Retaining much of what worked about Mario certainly a competent sequel, but it's one as the first game did. That's ultimately down to this game's be both less reliable and less fun. Super Sluggers overall, though, was still fleshed out a bit and times of day affecting It also had more levels and more characters, those who were already familiar with the original. The game sold well enough in Japan and North title, but for some reason it never released the Wii to skip out on us. Not sure why. We would love baseball. It's basically cricket, but sometimes you 30) Dr. Mario Online Rx Dr. Mario Online Rx is Mario's only WiiWare And it isn't a bad one. Or, wasn't, I should say; Nintendo shut anymore. So allow me to tell you why it was very good Well, okay, it's Dr. Mario. All Dr. Mario games are Dr. Mario. It's fun, but if you didn't like one of What Dr. Mario Online Rx adds, however, is game more replayable than other versions. Oh, and there was an extra mode, but it was The game was known as Dr. Mario &amp; Germ Buster in Japan. That translates as Dr. Mario &amp; Bacteria Extermination, cover band. 29) Mario Kart Arcade GP It's difficult to judge the Mario Kart arcade Part of the fun of Mario Kart is how easy It's difficult to ignore the passage of a machine, however. I will say that developer Namco has an excellent and they managed to craft an experience that They also didn't skimp on putting their characters to the roster and introducing an Critics had the fair complaint that the game by the time you learn any of the tracks, you We hold out hope that one day we will get Perhaps on a single cartridge. A Mario Cart, if you will. 28) Mario Kart Arcade GP 2 Remember a moment ago when I said it was difficult I must have been out of my mind, because it's 2 as superior to Mario Kart Arcade GP. Overall, it's a similar experience to its There are new drivers, for instance. One of them is Memetchi, who is a...Tamagotchi Ah well, it's the thought that counts. Come at me, Memetchi fans. There are also more tracks, which is always And, most importantly, the game now takes it, so you can spend the entire race being and Waluigi. 27) Dr. Mario: Miracle Cure The best of the Dr. Mario series, Miracle throughout the franchise's history, provides new tricks of its own. It's pretty much everything a Dr. Mario Except to be a fan of a better series. BOOM. Roasted you! You are so roasted. Also, I can use this time to speak just a on the grounds that Luigi is not Mario. Look! His clothes are a different color and everything! That game's main mode is included here, why anyone thought that would be a good idea. This was also the final Mario game released Iwata on July 11, 2015, exactly one month 26) Mario Kart 64 If you owned a Nintendo 64 but didn't own tastes in video games, and that's okay. But if you did own it, you know what a huge As impressive as the SNES game's Mode 7 It had actual depth, for instance. And hills! And a train that would sometimes run you over! This game had fewer tracks than its predecessor, creative, and fun than anything we'd seen It was a genuine case of quality over quantity. It also had what might still be the series' players could drive around as a little bomb burst their last balloon. 25) New Super Mario Bros. U With a score of 84% on Metacritic, it's a good game and also easy to see why it didn't hoped it would. Like the WiiU did with the Wii itself, New for some fans from New Super Mario Bros. Wii, It's a difficult game to play without feeling Four-player mode returns, the previous game's and hazards return. It's a fine release, but it just didn't The big new powerup was the squirrel suit, the cape from Super Mario World, a game released New Super Luigi U was a great optional expansion, One day we'll cover your games, green stache. One day... 24) Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story The best of the dual-screen Mario &amp; Luigi question every Nintendo fan had been asking down and viciously abused a turtle's internal The plot centers around "blorbs," a disease Inside Story caters to more kinks than we Gameplay involves controlling Bowser as he the brothers, who fight their way through hard not to think about their predicament. The game was remade for the 3DS...puzzling, It sold poorly and developer AlphaDream filed Bowser's Inside Story is both therefore the series is dead forever. Covering all bases, there. 23) Mario Golf: Super Rush How do you make a golf game that doesn't those who are seeking a golf game? Don't ask me, man; I don't make games. I only complain about them on the internet. Instead, ask the people behind Mario Golf: The most recent Mario Golf game on this list both a push for speed and some brutal jostling I'm pretty sure that's the right terminology, Super Rush manages to avoid the familiarity you on your toes by pitting you against others speed and power. And, surprisingly, it works darn well. Critics were disappointed by an overall lack series of updates to address this. Even focusing solely on the game's original and it manages to keep itself interesting 22) Mario Kart 7 It's easy to overlook Mario Kart 7. It's not the best game in the series or but it's a solid racer with some excellent What's more, it laid the groundwork for Mario Kart 7 allows players to assemble their and sea track segments, and also gives us one long track instead of looping around it Rainbow Road in this game even takes this It's a fully competent and well-made entry, more or less obsolete by the very next game. 21) Super Mario 3D Land Taken on its own merits, Super Mario 3D Land Considering the hardware that ran it, however, Super Mario 3D Land is a truly beefy game It looks great, sounds great, plays great, 3D functionality. That shouldn't be noteworthy in itself, know full well that it is. Where does it fall down? Well, it's far from Mario's most inventive And while it is indeed impressive that a 3D handheld, it's designed much more like the like the explorational sandboxes of his 3D Also, this game introduced us to hot-lady confusion ever since. I can't forgive it for that. 20) Super Mario 3D World After the Wii conquered the globe with great City Folk and, yes, Super Mario Galaxy, Nintendo released a console with no games worth playing? The answer was that it didn't sell very possibly have predicted that. The WiiU did get a mainline Mario game in felt like a must-have. Is that fair? Well, yeah, actually, because 3D World is platformers. It's far too easy, and most of the stages clocking in at only a few seconds of playtime. Having said that, simultaneous four-player indeed, and that's where the game really Well, that and its genuinely wonderful jazzy Then, of course, there are the creative Captain their own. It's excellent for what it is, surely, but 19) Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle The fact that Ubisoft made a Mario game that collecting Paratroopa feathers is admirable. The fact that Ubisoft made a Mario game that own output is downright miraculous. Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle is a tactics every genre except...let me check, here...dating Just dating sim. What are you waiting for, Nintendo? Anyway, the game combines the charm of the Rabbids, and it holds together quite well, It's also surprisingly challenging, and It's not an experiment many people expected that, at this late stage, Nintendo is still So, dating sim next. Right? Right. 18) New Super Mario Bros. Wii New Super Mario Bros. is the 17th best-selling Mario Bros. Wii. It's safe to say that people liked this New Super Mario Bros. Wii retains the giddy more fun. The design is better, the motion controls for up to four people. What's more, the game is great whether you're wondering if your phone will ever ring again. It feels neither empty in single-player nor That's an impressive design feat. New Super Mario Bros. Wii was lauded by critics, game, likely because of how similar it was It was a must-have game for the console, however, owned a Wii, its distinctive was not far away. 17) Mario Superstar Baseball It's fitting that Mario's first baseball Some of the plumber's dalliances with major needed time to find their footing, but Mario to stay true to both the sport and the Mario A variety of game modes allowed players to as easily as they could enjoy cartoony chaos. The expected roster of silly characters and contains a great multiplayer mode. I can't say I'm looking forward to the it doesn't seem like there's likely to Mario Superstar Baseball only got one sequel And that's not fair at all; even I know before you're out. 16) Mario Kart Arcade GP DX Mario Kart Arcade GP DX builds upon the two more complex tracks, better design, and absolutely Of particular note is the co-op mode, which while the other bombards opponents with shells. Shells...right, I just got that pun. The basic issues associated with modern arcade They're expensive, they're difficult to of developing much skill unless you also have Look beyond that, though, and you have the the Mario Kart name. Also, the cabinet's software has been updated new characters, tracks, and features. So if you played it upon release, you'll 15) Mario Kart Wii Yes, I said "wee wee." Mario Kart Wii is the third-best-selling Wii count the packed-in Wii Sports. Fans enjoyed it and, overall, so did critics, both Metacritic and GameRankings. Or 82.07% if you want to get rounding to the The game looked great and played phenomenally. It allowed more concurrent racers than ever series with online multiplayer, the Mii integration mode...erm, existed. Okay, the battle mode was pants, but the rest best track design the series has ever had. There was even a Tournament mode with different as long as it supported the game. It's not the best entry in the series, but to justify its place in anyone's game library. 14) Mario Golf: World Tour The best of the Mario Golf games - so far, hint, deliberately or otherwise, of the next No, really! Hear me out! Traditionally, Mario Golf games had very different The handheld games had an element of role-playing and more impressive mechanics. This played to the strengths of both types Then, during the WiiU era, there was no console Instead, we only got World Tour on the 3DS, the sport with stripped-down RPG elements. In short, it was the culmination of both the the series. And then Nintendo gave us the Switch, which sense. Mario Golf: World Tour was trying to tell It's also extremely good, with excellent and even online tournaments. It is, as they say in the world of golf, a 13) Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door A number of commenters were disappointed that Thousand-Year Door in our Every Nintendo Franchise They were so disappointed that they called Please understand, in that video we were discussing individual game contained within. We were obligated to provide an overview, interesting facts, and even a joke or two, entries. It's difficult to accomplish all of that, meeting every expectation that each member with them. So, please, accept my humble apology for not Door in that video. To make it up to you, I will discuss it now. Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is...yeah, 12) Mario Kart DS It took until Mario Kart DS before the series waiting for. Mario Kart DS would have been worth a purchase the best game in the series up to that point, tracks, a varied roster of characters, and emblem creator. In many cases, older Mario Kart games can build upon everything that came before. Mario Kart DS, however, has a number of features such as the rightly beloved Mission Mode, actual single-player content. The game has aged a bit in terms of its visual servers are long gone, but if you have a few there's still a lot of fun to be had here. 11) Donkey Kong Donkey Kong for the Game Boy is often dismissed case, we can't blame anyone for coming to The title is identical, the box art gives and the first few levels are direct reconstructions All of that is intentional misdirection, as game becomes something else entirely; it's good one at that. Mario indeed needs to avoid obstacles and now he also needs to find and use keys and as simple as they appear. It's a frequently overlooked game in Mario's not just "good for a Game Boy game." It's good, full stop, and it introduces moveset, something that has stuck around to 10) Paper Mario Beginning development as a direct sequel to boots to fill. Miraculously, it nearly did. As Nintendo's relationship with Square started and even launched a new series. The story saw Mario and friends in search different and legally distinct concept from While the main defining aspect of Paper Mario elevated it above being yet another Mario The game was bursting with personality and the entire series, no matter how...questionable Paper Mario holds an impressive 93% average Super Mario RPG isn't listed there, but all agree that both are great. 9) Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga The first game in the Mario &amp; Luigi series best. Personal opinions won't always align, of Superstar Saga does not deserve a lofty placement. As with Paper Mario, this game had a striking outlines, and a decidedly cartoonish aesthetic. It perfectly matched the humorous tone of Then Superstar Saga was remade in 2017, exclusively But I digress. It's a single-player game, as you might leading to some interesting puzzles on the in combat. The stakes are low - the plot essentially it's charming and genuinely funny. It's worth a spin even if you don't normally Maybe especially if you don't normally enjoy 8) Super Mario 64 The game that showed the world how 3D platformers Bubsy 3D tried to convince the world that is still a classic. Alright, yes, it's aged about as well as...well, its charm remains infectious. Not literally; that would be hideous. The adventure takes place in and around Peach's and other portals to distinct and memorable The variety is stellar, the soundtrack is to move Mario around. It's not perfect. Mario won't shut the hell up for two seconds, Chris Pratt - he's so cool. Also, the camera is a nightmare and a number but we're picking nits at this point. Super Mario 64 is the 3D platformer every Very few of them ever got close. 7) Mario Kart 8 We've seen the WiiU a few times on this but somehow, against all odds, "the little the best game in one of Mario's - and Okay, yes, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe on the Switch online but you get the point. Mario Kart has never been a game about perfect than cartoon characters spraying squid ink The games live and die simply on how much The former is found in most Mario Kart games, Mario Kart 8's courses are beautiful. They're clever, they stay entertaining for leads to some truly memorable moments. Mario Kart has gone from strength to strength, sure it will stay at the top for long. 6) Super Mario Bros. 3 Are there better games on the NES than Super Perhaps. Are there many of them? Absolutely not. Super Mario Bros. 3 is among the very best of a slight bit of stiffness in the controls, It discards just about everything that Super Mario Bros. 2 - brought to the series, focusing colorful platforming from the first game. Arguably, it's this game that defined what hard to recapture exactly the magic that this Some of them, as we'll see, even succeeded. It's also the game that saw Mario becoming Prior to Super Mario Bros. 3, he would only Now he was perfectly open to dressing up as fetishist. Good on you, Mario. Dig yourself. 5) Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars Still the best of Mario's RPG outings, Super by the reining lords of the genre, Square. The company used its Final Fantasy and Dragon adventure for Mario, and the game is a gem It's a gem of an RPG, of the SNES, of the Mario's history. It truly is fantastic, and there's a reason century after its release. Super Mario RPG never got a direct sequel, More recently it was found in the Mario &amp; Luigi Yoshihiko Maekawa, one of Super Mario RPG's he worked on Mario &amp; Luigi. In conversation with Jason Schreier, Maekawa to this game, because he was able to accomplish It's hard to disagree. 4) Super Mario World Without question a firm contender for the World is an almost impossibly fun game, and up very well today. Its graphics and sound helped define what and it refined the Super Mario formula that Returning foes and allies all look great, is among the best the series has ever had, gives it a surprising amount of depth. It's particularly noteworthy just how much game. That's often said about the 3D games, and that the movement in a 2D game can be so fluid Spin-jumping, flying with a cape, sacrificing just a bit higher...it's damned close to 3) Super Mario Odyssey The WiiU's failure can be attributed to...well, But the lack of compelling Zelda and Mario Then the Switch launched with one of the best by one of the best Mario games. The success of Nintendo's newest console Super Mario Odyssey is everything Mario fans now that I think about it. Its sense of movement is unrivaled, its environments secrets and hidden items to be found just Much of the game lacks challenge, but that to appeal to both younger players and those the very beginning. It currently sits at an incredible - but easily one of the greatest 3D platformers It's gaming history in the making, and it's is only his third-best game. 2) Super Mario Galaxy 2 No matter which of the two Super Mario Galaxy half of you. Frankly, that's a good thing; it means that comes to choosing between them. In fact, they both hold stellar - get it? Galaxy 2 is only, we feel, a hair less impressive For starters, it borrows so much from that pack. Which is exactly how it began development, It's also more linear, with an emphasis exploration. Some players prefer that, and that's okay, the sheer, expansive majesty of the first Traveling around on a world map also doesn't did. On the bright side, you do get to ride Yoshi wasn't able to pull off in the first Super Speaking of which... 1) Super Mario Galaxy The apogee of Mario's career, Super Mario And while many games do often show their age Super Mario 3D All-Stars revealed that Super The controls are perfect, the levels are inventive, Every moment of Super Mario Galaxy is awash Rosalina, one of the few Mario characters and goals and feelings and fears. What's most impressive is just how well leans on the brand-new gravity mechanic, which perfectly intuitive. It was exciting to control Mario as he zipped felt right, like the next logical step for Nintendo took its most audacious idea for still felt comforting, rewarding, and familiar. The soundtrack is also among the best in the song a sense of life and wonder that could Perhaps one day Nintendo will outdo themselves. But, even if they don't, it's a miracle