A Husband Found Out About His Wife's CW is a 30 year old woman, presenting excessive sweating. In the hospital, her to 40, within a short amount of time. doctors they don't have much time CW was married to Eric. It seemed that happened to them. Right after the like CW by just being there brought him good and CW started feeling like One day, she had a flight. Eric had promised time came, he totally forgot because he had CW got to the airport, but problems like this kept everything Eric would say and do, and she'd she was unhappy. She started developing a vapor to stop but when she realized that this got on Something started to brew underneath the surface. One afternoon, Eric was home early. At the come out of a car that he had never seen CW. He couldn't believe this. He recognized Mike. He wanted to believe this was just a he could try to get a hold of himself, because noticed weird text messages from someone named months. He didn't think anything was wrong then afterwards. But Eric found a shirt that wasn't convincing response as to how it got there, but Every response Eric had ever received from CW didn't know what to do, but he wasn't One evening, Eric and CW were at since they had a date night. Eric to finally get some time away from work. The drinks were pre-made. She saw Eric pour them. started noticing that each pour started to it tasted totally fine. But a burning her chest as she kept drinking. She started Face down on the couch, CW suddenly woke up. how much time had passed. She knew what drunk bathroom and everything started to come up. Very She tried to cry out for help, but she wasn't to call for an ambulance, but finally, she was At examination, the medical team finds that high. Her breathing was erratic. They could medical team took a closer look, they noticed her blood was lower than normal. She tried to tell but she was so panicked that words weren't really out of her mouth because she was producing sweating in a way that she shouldn't be, because CW was 30. She had some prior health be an "E-cigarette user." In the hospital, decrease. This quick change means her body is The most visual responses we can observe digest. Fight or flight can be caused by being causing the release of adrenaline. The stimulant. If she's salivating, and having stomach well, that sounds like a rest and digest Fight or flight response is controlled by the controlled by the parasympathetic nervous system. Her initial response looked like she had ingested fast breathing. But then quickly, it became as low blood pressure, and shallow she might not be able to breathe very soon. But When a nerve sends a signal, chemicals are connect. When the signal is done, the signal is sent nonstop. But how does that or they can be broken down. The sympathetic end to send signals. But the parasympathetic CW's response changed nervous systems, and these chemicals, then it means that the synapses not But, if we go earlier, we find that sympathetic acetylcholine. And only the parasympathetic then is it possible that she somehow consumed off a sympathetic response at first, and the parasympathetic system, leaving her with an could be plausible, except, acetylcholine gets broken down very quickly. But, is there In the body, cells have structures that chemical is bound, the cells respond accordingly. One is the Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor. This found in Muscaria, another name for a kind it causes a rest and digest response. But in the body. Muscarine doesn't if we look a little deeper, another subtype responding to Nicotine. And this Nicotine is a stimulant. It acts like system to produce an effect. But in massive the signal at the parasympathetic nervous system rest and digest signal. But here's another kinds of nerves. They're found in the brain, and In the brainstem, where breathing is regulated, are nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. it produces the "rest and digest" kind descending to no breathing at all, explaining one In the airways, nerves send signals nicotine floods in, taking place of acetylcholine, these muscles constrict. Less space in the The brain can discharge in chaotic ways when nicotinic receptors get flooded. This massive which CW was noted to have. Her muscles can no mimicked acetylcholine at the nicotinic Typically, when light is shined into someone's the amount of light entering in. This reflex is parts of the brain aren't functioning correctly. Much earlier in her hospital admission, the medical team had suspected that CW was sample and sent it to a lab to test, because when it returned, it reported that massive her blood, as if she had smoked 215 whole By this time, doctors had already put a tube down her. They had already notified the authorities by At CW and Eric's home, police looked through. they found empty bottles of e-liquid. The CW and Eric's household was because were in that same bag. CW's vapor habit consisted nicotine liquid. This was the only source Nicotine is a natural product found in plants. a pesticide-- a defense mechanism for plants. plants and likely was intended for the same thing. in pests where it's deadly, but also in humans A kind of synthetic pesticide called an first made in the lab in the 1850s. In were starting to get noticed. We Do you remember that neurotransmitters need to done? Well, organophosphates stop acetylcholine digest signal to get sent nonstop. So whereas signal starts, this pesticide causes acetylcholine to end. When this was discovered, it served an antidote was found shortly after. When authorities questioned Eric, they and he immediately folded. While they were he started pouring her vape juice into the glass. the taste was horrible, but because she was so that he didn't think anything was wrong. But want to see or hear her nagging anymore. He knew Nicotine is something that could go undetected. the amount of nicotine that she drank with no one there to help her. Within 2 hours, nicotine circulating around. Eric was anticipating were to be found after that time, no one would breathing, and the cause would be more unclear and her brain would have shown signs of damage. she was known to vape, so this that wouldn't be anticipate that she'd get up and throw up a large to prevent something permanent from happening Nicotine poisoning is difficult because, as we don't know how much can be instantly containing products, whether it's inhalation, just don't come in large enough amounts for it poisoning becomes muddied when nicotine is even immediately with tobacco. And that would be the bring up how they believe that nicotine alone cancer. Nicotine alone doesn't appear to do that. on the nervous system and organs like the heart, and parasympathetic nervous systems. It creates a impact children's brain development, if they get because it works directly on the nervous system. until 2024, America's Poison Centers have had nicotine exposures, with more than half of less than 6 years old. And these are cases that haven't been reported. And this doesn't count but there are several publications about Some questionable studies say that and that vaping might lower sperm count. but there's a simple rule, and it says "if you don't need to put it But in this particular case, CW didn't In the hospital, she was fortunate to have There isn't a direct antidote for nicotine which is an anti-cholinergic, given in the case known best for acting on Muscarinic Acetylcholine for the medical team is to make sure that the time where she can't because excess nicotine like when she presented to the emergency room, despite her vomiting. And her poisoning was longer reacted to light. There isn't much time stopped beating in the intensive care unit. At autopsy, CW was found to have brain damage died and fluid started to swell in, causing possible that some of the nerves because of over-excitation caused by an With his confession on hand, Eric was arrested. This case was given to me by a colleague from to the poisoner spouse. The point of this parasympathetic nervous systems, the nicotine setting of overdose. Unfortunately, we don't will do something like this to one another, the can go back hundreds of years. The ones that are been selected to be shown to you. If you've you've heard of at least a few times where things couple. But I hope none of us will ever have There's a lot of things that people will somehow of malicious intent. Like this video about Front To Back and her husband's nerves shut down, service that was created by creators, and it's and films, and originals, as we see them. There's but they are and will be on Nebula. plays and Nebula is able to offer this thanks who in addition to getting all of these, also get ad free. My chemistry NileRed posts But Nebula isn't just videos that but it's also exclusives and Originals. by Tom Nicholas exploring how the baby boomer in the world. It's a funny yet informative world with a crew to make it and it shows Originals to make them on a whole other Come join us. Normally, this would be $6 a month, which is the link in the description, subscription, which is 36 bucks for the year, $3 platform. And with your subscription you will with family and friends for 7 days, and to enjoy. And I know this might not be for forever, lifetime subscription deal. but Nebula is entirely owned by creators, so Nebula creators like me to create. There's currently in production, and we just and we're becoming a home for independent Thanks so much for watching. Take