Hey, it's me, Destin, We are kicking off the Coast Today, we want to get to the good stuff. We're gonna start learning And when you think about the Coast Guard, you normally think about like an airplane, I'm sorry, a helicopter like this or you think of a RBM These things are awesome, Guard to save lives for But today, what I want to do of search and rescue, Sometimes we think about like, you get the helicopter down, picking But how do they know where to go? This Deep Dove series into the US because I had no idea that the Coast Guard Today we're going to focus on math and science Let's go get smarter every day. So on our last video on the coast guard we visited sector mobile Mobile on the Gulf Coast of Alabama, We also met with Captain Allen, which means she's in charge assets along a vast stretch of the Gulf I asked her about how they approach when you dispatch. Your air assets or. Boats or whatever you dispatch. Do you have them search in a certain way? We do. We have various search patterns We put various search objects in there we don't know for search whether a swamped capsized boat, A person in the water, a person with a life jacket, We do various searches on different patterns That drift is what we call it. really? So, so a person in the water with a life jacket Is going to float different than That's correct. Destin - How would that be different? Well, it depends on the current surface and then also the air Destin - Oh, because the water could be flowing, Destin - one way in the air Destin - What does that do? We put it all into the SAR database, out a great product for us It'll put out a search pattern. Various search patterns. And we give those to our boats. We give them to our air assets. We give them to everyone that's searching. OK, that was fascinating. The idea that different things in the water and the way they float That's where the survivors are. That's crazy. OK, Captain Allen talked about this and simulation software And in the last episode, there was this really brief moment where See it? OK, zoom in and enhance. OK, so this is modeling and simulation The purple things seem to be where something may have drifted off And we're trying to find it. And so this black line and this first one makes sense to me I start at one side and I'm methodically covered the entire area Make sure I didn't miss anything, but this other thing I don't really, you know, it's and that doesn't seem So what's going on with that? This weird shape is a concept Sierra, It's always a very interesting problem for someone on water. Let's say you went on a hike The right thing to do you remember having your item, This works because land doesn't move. Water, however, does move, and it can even If you were to go back to the same place it's probably already Understanding that drift you remember when I did that, that drift, because I thought that the cases and just start looking around, maybe use a search light at night But no, they have to do two things They have to first But they also have to start searching. And this Victor Sierra kind of does that. And the cool thing about Coast is standardized, so it doesn't matter They all know how this works. So what I'd like to do is from two different locations and see if we can understand Sierra down here in Florida. But first, I want to go up to Station This is bosun's mate second Class Lucas, Lucas and the rest of the crew showed me the RBM, a response boat medium And once we went into the station, I got a chance to ask them So what we're doing for a victor we are trying to look for a small search Destin - OK what you're doing with those triangles So as you're searching, you're actually moving with the current the water is moving, And then the direction is moving as if someone's fallen overboard. They're not going to drift So you want to follow the direction If You don't speak. Coast Guard, it might be difficult So let's just go do one. Let's go down to Station Destin in Destin, Victor Sierra search pattern. Obviously, because my name is Destin, but the. Cool thing about this particular trip is which is the busiest weekend of the year There's this little makeshift island Destin called Crab Island, saw a bunch of It was a really interesting time to visit at one point and just getting to know I learned one of the most important things All right, so this is Justin. And he's going to teach me how to whistle Yeah. So you're going to put your hands together I think you should line up finger guns. All right. Fingers together. Destin - Yeah. And all you do is you just Destin - Back? What do you mean? Destin - Cause is. ( really really loud whistle sound ) Destin - hold on wait what did you do with your tongue? Destin - let me see it , so you push it back. Destin - Uh-Huh. And fold it over, Destin - uh huh? And you just blow Destin - All right alright you want to hold that? finger guns like that. Justin - Yeah. Knuckles together...? Justin - So your pinkies? You see these two lines right here. Destin - Yeah. Justin - Line those up. Destin - OK. Got it! Justin - OK, then fingers together Destin - uh huh! Justin - And then blow down. Holy cow. Are you serious. DUDEEE ? Justin - Once you get that down, Destin - ( Freaking out ) are you serious? Destin - ( whistles loudly ) Justin, thank you so much. Justin - you are welcome There was a moment, dude. OK. Obviously, that was awesome. Anyway, the next day, before Crab Island prep one of the boats for the day. This is an RBM response boat medium. It's a 45 foot long jet boat, and this is Ortize showed me as they were getting things I get to go out with them later and do some of their drills That's Justin They took the RBM several miles water to do some training, to understand that nuclear sign Justin - All right, let's do a victor Sierra. Destin - Do a what? So it's a search pattern. It's a it's a drifting search pattern. So we use this if, say we someone says we get a radio call and Coast Guard, I'm in this position and we fly out there and we get on scene We're going to do what's called a sector And you know, but basically that drifts You and draw it. Yeah. So I'll I'll show you what a Victor And then we get down. I'll show you what it actually looks like, taking into consideration Shepard - want me to take the sticks? ( meaning control of the boat ) Justin - Yeah, go ahead. So you're taking control, taking control. Justin - So if this is the starting position, and we'll end right here. Destin - That's a victor Sierra. Justin - Thats a victor sierra search pattern. So we'll start this way On paper, it looks like but you'll see on the chart plotter it's not going to look anything like this Well, try. Destin - How do you Are you saying I'm going to run for Justin - Yeah, so we go a certain So we'll run six knots for one minute. Destin - And it will take you how far? point one miles. Destin - OK. Got it. Justin - When I start, I'll set a waypoint and now Destin - uh Huh So it's the When I finish, I'll set another waypoint and I'll use the distance to determine set and drift and we'll use that So you get a good search area, figure out the most probable location Destin - So how long does it Victor Sierra take? About nine minutes. Destin - Ok! Justin - you have nine legs a minute apiece. The current and the winds can affect that, And then it's like eight and a half. But we're going to try and turn for We'll leave it. We won't change our speed. We'll just let the current take us. So this is a search pattern, will. And so it's a nomograph. And basically, we'll tell you what courses So we're going to start out at 200 degrees and that I know Destin - So where are we? Destin - So we're in the center right now, Destin - Where is the first one. Justin - Leg one right here? Destin - Why did you choose that course? Justin - So looking at the elements coming Um, just estimating that's drift is going to be when we come on And then when we finish, But you always want to try Destin - So you're trying to maximize the area you cover Trying to cover a specific area because Destin - Got it. OK, this is the nomograph that Justin is using for the Victor It's a mechanical way to calculate things So if you look at what he was doing, wheel here and it has a bunch of arrows And you'll notice that the compass heading in the boat there start at 200, So what this does is this they should do the first leg on. After that, they're going to do this which is parallel to this, and you can Boom, So you can basically go through associated with whichever And then that's a quick way I think these things are awesome, and it's clear there's other kind of cheat This is what Justin is using to calculate OK. So when I go to the bow Ortiz - Got it. Destin - That's the datum. Ortiz - Yes, you can see it. That's how OK, this is so cool. I had to like use I know the word datum to mean a place Now, usually a datum is stationary, And I think that's really cool because if one side's heavier than the other, operate that thing isn't that awesome anyway. So I think this is fascinating usually use the word datum So the question is, By the way, It's literally just a floating light Shepard - If we arrive on scene. Possible P.I.W. situation. first thing we're going to do is deploy the datum, to get the most calculated set and drift Datum deployed. So he's going to back off of it, And then Shepard - we're going to back off So once I pass it, going six knots I'm going so we can maintain that same All right. Ortiz You're going to have port look out Keep your eyes forward Justin - were going to come up to six knots, Shepard - Roger Justin - I'm going to pass datum on your starboard side. Your first course is going to be 200. Shepard - 200 aye Shepard - Eleven hundred r.p.m.. Shepard - just past 6 knots going to come down to 950 rpms. So as soon as he passes it, I'm going to drop a waypoint and we're going to use that to determine when we are done Shepard - Approaching datum I'm going about seven knots im going to drop it down. just a little bit more Shepard - Datum out the The right window now steering course 200. Justin - 200 aye Next course is going to be 320 Shepard - 320 aye Destin - This is fascinating concepts happening here all at once. They're following a pattern They're searching into equal pie pieces, of searching that circle So there's two sides of the boat, I remember Port is on the left and left has four letters. So with Ortiz looking out the port side looking out the starboard side They're able to cover every point Now this would be pretty simple if they were on land in one direction The center of the circle in terms of where they are which means the GPS location of that circle But on the ocean with the current, the circle will need to move And that's why they drop the datum to keep the middle of the search in line And they use math to make sure Pie pieces up equally To minimize cross drift. They set up the first leg of their search that the currents flowing as best Shepard - So at this point, we will be going over We're looking for a 40 Destin - Oh, I see! I see. I'm 39. Thank you. I wasn't describing you at first, Justin - 20 Seconds 320. Justin - Come to starboard. Shepard - so hard to right Shepard - coming to 320 Destin - Are you looking at Shepard - looking at this Shepard - need to look at it. Destin - I'm sorry. Justin - All right. 320 Destin - Alright im going to come look. Shepard - alright you are good. Destin - So you're going to hold that. Justin - Do you see datum, off the starboard beam. Justin - I do straight off the starboard beam I kind of thought turned out. Justin - come to starboard datum Destin - I do not see it. Shepard - So directly off the bow. 100 yards. Destin - Oh wow. Destin - That's hard to see in the sun glare. That's hard to see. OK, If you think about the challenge of trying to find a human at about a 10th of a mile. It doesn't seem that difficult, right? The thing body, you're only looking for the part And if you can think about a human head So a human head at about arm's A foot or so, right? But if you do the math real quick, or 528 feet If I do this right That should be about as big as my head is. It is very difficult I couldn't do it at all Another thing to think about going up and down in between me and you, if it's a consistent wave, it's My point is it's very difficult to see Destin - So are you following a course ? Shepard - no course I'm aiming at datum? Justin - So once you pass datum, OK, I don't know if you heard what Justin just said, but it is critical They go out on a compass heading. They turn on a compass heading and then they head back towards the datum, So basically, they put this thing and they're going straight at datum then they pick up their compass heading. This is critical to making sure that the Victor Also, I feel like I need to confess here from the top of the boat But sometimes I'm an idiot. I went up there to try to like, and I turn the GoPro off All right. what we're going to do between the waypoint and the waypoint we dropped So I've got 153 degrees magnetic at 50 feet. So over the course of nine minutes, we drifted 50 feet. So now we just do the math to see how far we drift in an hour And the set is going to be 153 degrees feet over nine minutes, hardly It's going to be like point .02 knots Destin - So calm seas? Yeah, it's very calm out As you can see on the chart, So, you know, and heavier weather, Sierra is going to look like this. It's going to come. You know, it may look something like that. Destin - Oh, OK. Shepard - Yes, it's one of the most perfect victor sierras Destin - really? Shepard - one of the calmest days I've seen out here. OK, check this out. Let's simulate performing a victor Sierra Man, that was a sentence, wasn't it? The higher the drift rate, the more crazy But if you think about it, because they're actually cutting the pie And furthermore, then feed back into the sector command into the SAR OPS software so they have the best chance that might need to come on scene This is fascinating. If you were to draw this and say, when we get the scene that is not what I would think But this is an awesome way I think that Victor Sierra is incredibly clever, There are other types of search patterns and to learn more about those, and ask the coasties OK, so what are the other kinds Because there's other ones, right? Whatcha got So you have an expanding square, which is another form of a drifting kind of like the same thing and more for a concert area, but Destin - So is it like playing the game snake? Yeah, you're making 90 degree turns and then you're making a 90 degree turn, turn around two minutes later, and then three minutes and so on, that's bigger and bigger. Destin - OK, so what else we have? We have any other kinds? You have parallel search So if you had a rectangle where you'd deem If you were to do a parallel, Destin - ok Miller - And if you were going to do a creep , Destin - Oh, OK, so it's your coloring the square. Weston - Yeah, we have like a barrier search, and that would be like for a river There's a lot of barrier searches. Weston - OK, so they'll sit in one spot to catch anything So there's search, there's search units if anything gets past them, And then there's a track line patterns. So if we know vessel left in a certain direction they knew We can follow that track line and search for them along that line. Or people go from Florida to Bimini, whatever they know at the track line, just go, Destin - huh. OK. And then shoreline search would just be and we're looking for something to be on the water It's just kind of a quick and dirty search Victor Sierra expanding square parallels creep than we have. What was the one where you go back barrier and then you have the shoreline and then the last one is a track line, right? Destin - Wow, that's awesome. That's cool, though. Is it fun? Yeah, Sometimes it sucks. Yeah, there are like eight footers because that's just how the search pattern And that's how they. And this is the most probable area that's going to be that doesn't So you might be going and the waves are just hitting And that's just how it is. There's nothing you can do about it, where they're going to be, Destin - Oh, oh, wow. So the search patterns are often independent of what So try to work with as best they can, that there's no this can't fix. You say, Hey, sector, I'm taking big waves You can tell them that I might be have a different way. They can do it, and then they'll they'll But if they can't, that's what you just It's interesting that the so to speak, is often different Yeah. I saw the smile. It's just too different is that it's That's all it is. But you know. The biggest thing. Is it's pretty fluid as a team When it really comes down to it. We rely heavily on them But we're also their eyes and ears, we let them know, and that helps them Have you ever calculated a search pattern I've never. I've seen how it works, but I've never How they do. It. Did that On why the search pattern ends up Yeah, definitely made me understand Destin - Do they send you the search pattern? Yeah. So send it to us in the version of like All the the computer program of the particles, particles we'll just get the waypoints of The Coast Guard is working on now sense packages They're trying to implement a way for them from their office directly to us, right So we don't have to take the time And they would say is a search pattern. It's out there and we can just start. Destin - It'll just come up on the RBM screen, be. Able to pop up and go instead of us and That's going to save so much time Sounds like stroke the check to make it happen. That's awesome. Thanks, guys. Boom, boom. So obviously without pulling some dummy up and saving them right, This episode of Smarter Brilliant is a really cool app and website that lets you learn through In this city of the Coast Guard called SAR OPS to figure out where Now, if you're like me, since you brush up on probability. Brilliant has tons of interactive modules how probability works. This is just scratching If you were to check this out, smarter every day. That gets you a 20% but you can sign up for free and just start messing around with stuff If you're like me, like you want to see how the thing works, That's what brilliant does. But for very complicated concepts you end up owning it like you understand org slash Also, they give you 20% off The whole point of smarter every day, and brilliant helps So big thanks to brilliant for sponsoring Big thanks to you that makes these videos happen. bring them on board. bring them on board aye one two (laughing from both destin and ortiz) Yes, this is a stressful. Situation, I'm sorry, i just knocked him out... Destin - did it make it? Justin - person onboard he appears to be stable Destin - I'm not sure that he's breathing. Destin - to mustache. ( everyone laughing at Destins joke )