The Forbes 30 under 30 list. For some, it's a lifelong goal. For others, a hub for criminals. And for this beaver trying to carry and a head of lettuce It means absolutely nothing. What a life. What a life since its founding in 2011, ambitious has gained as many fans So what's really going on here? Today we find out. Everyone has dreams. Gandhi had dreams of a free India. Greta And I have scary dreams of big monsters So for many aspiring entrepreneurs, 30 under 30 list. The Forbes 30 under 30 list, In the Forbes 30 under 30 list. 30 under 30 list. Or is it Forbes 30 under 30. Totally bullshit. It's such a scam to be on that list. Actually. A marketing growth engine. Former Forbes, 30 under 30, But to understand what it is actually like to be a Forbes 30 under 30, I was going to sit down with Lil Nas X, on Wednesday night, which is when me So instead I got this guy for me as it was or 20 years old, that I would look at that Jay Carlos is the cofounder of Midday chocolate bars. He spent three years applying a 30 under 30 At first, as more of a thing that I wanted to be on But then it actually became a way to inspire more entrepreneurs I'm in Canada, but as a surprise to Jake's he soon learned that some people hate You know, I'll never forget and I was in the magazine part of it I represented the food and beverage part. They were like, Oh, you must have paid And what that says is just it kind of makes you feel like, Indeed, humans do be negative. And this is largely due to the reputation Well, 30 under 30, including Daniel EK, There have also been names Sam Bankman-fried, Charlie Jarvis, and worst of all, Ben Simmons, Australian basketball player Ben Simmons. I really do struggle to name of recent fraud from a young founder who didn't have some involvement Chris Baquet is a tech entrepreneur who has recently been waging war Here's bad stuff that's happening kind of monikers that people maybe get customers to hire team mates And so I do feel like it's a obligation And as more instances of Forbes have popped up, including this one Bullshit has been called the Forbes The majority of Forbes 30 under 30 face But the majority of people that were on or have faced major legal issues It's coming But in the words of legendary journalist how bull is this shit? There are now 630 under 30 listers alone. If they all went to prison, we'd Just a whole prison filled with Adderall But the accusation that might be leveled than they all go to jail, People pay to put themselves on the Forbes You also pay to be on it. What? This is a claim that Forbes We think despite multiple attempts investigative news team to contact Forbes they refused to comment on this report. However, they have addressed claims in their recent 30 under 30 newsletter Nope. Which I'm sure you probably can't explicitly Believe me, I've tried, of when people say Everyone who applies the list has a different level And one simple way candidates can improve on behalf of them. For entrepreneurs like Jake, I guess the businesses where we actually get a lot of submissions Submit us to be nominated. Meanwhile, Hailey Bieber, who is a 2023 followers on Instagram and will post In addition to appearing said, I'm not suggesting at all But awards are also moneymakers And this is not a secret Jodi Fisher is a veteran public relations When someone wins an award, you buy a table, you buy an ad, that sits behind the giving of the awards. And again, that's okay. But we need to be realistic about it, too, for awards sake. It is a business. You can build an entire cottage industry which Forbes has done quite successfully to speaker series and this $115 hoodie. But does the business community it serves benefit from the list There almost assuredly is some, you know, There are a certain number of people I'm sure, where it's it's you know, And for people like Jake, The first two months I was, local media from TV, radio, podcasts, Even for our industry focus, I was getting invited to actually do From a networking standpoint, has helped. And a when you reach out to other listers, kind of like if you went if you and I went to the same school, to make the list, some wonder I always caution my clients to sit back and ask themselves, why is it important I would guess that people 30 under 30 are probably thinking and a little bit 30 under 30 is clearly one of Forbes's but the list has helped create for entrepreneurs that it has become 30 under 30 makes you feel like a failure By the time you're 29 Mark Zuckerberg, which is way too many who are in their twenties really kind of unrealistic standard. It's an enormous amount of pressure. So maybe Jody's on to something here. You don't have to create a roller by the time you're 24 or invent a new type At the end of the day in your twenties, You don't need to win any awards. Sometimes all you can muster is to carry At the same time, back home, once or twice or three times, Don't let any list tell you different for good work. I'm Dan Toomey, so I spoke to a licensed about what happens to your body Thank you so much for joining us today. If you wouldn't mind saying your first Yes, absolutely. I'm Sarah Ross Now, Sarah, what happens to your body Do you decompose? Do you lose all of your mental cognition? What happens? No, no, it's the same. Nothing really happens. You continue on. What, Like, No, no. I mean, just continue living. Same as 29, similar to 31. It's just. Just another year, okay?