Well, we all need a reason to wake up. For me, it just took 11,000 volts. I know you're too polite to ask, so I will tell you. One night, sophomore year of college, just back from Thanksgiving holiday, a few of my friends and I and we decided to climb atop It was just sitting there, Somehow, that seemed We'd certainly done stupider things. I scurried up the ladder on the back, and when I stood up, the electrical current entered my arm, blew down and out my feet, Would you believe that watch still works? Takes a licking! (Laughter) My father wears it now in solidarity. That night began my formal relationship and it also began It's a good word. It means one who suffers. So I guess we're all patients. Now, the American health care system has more than its fair share to match its brilliance, to be sure. I'm a physician now, so I've seen care from both sides. And believe me: almost everyone really means well -- I mean, truly. But we who work in it for a system that too often Why? Well, there's actually a pretty easy and it explains a lot: because healthcare was designed Which is to say, of course, And nowhere are the effects or the opportunity than at the end of life, where things are so distilled There are no do-overs. My purpose today is and invite design thinking That is, to bring intention and creativity to the experience of dying. We have a monumental before one of the few universal issues as individuals as well as a civil society: to rethink and redesign how it is we die. So let's begin at the end. For most people, the scariest thing it's dying, suffering. It's a key distinction. To get underneath this, to tease out suffering from suffering we can change. The former is a natural, and to this we are called It can be really good They bring proportionality, like a cosmic right-sizing. After my limbs were gone, that loss, for example, necessarily part of my life, and I learned that I could no more It took me a while, Now, another great thing is that it is the very thing that unites caregiver and care receiver -- human beings. This, we are finally realizing, Yes, compassion -- literally, suffering together. Now, on the systems side, so much of the suffering It serves no good purpose. But the good news is, well, we can change it. How we die is indeed Making the system sensitive between necessary gives us our first of three After all, our role as caregivers, is to relieve suffering -- True to the tenets of palliative care, I function as something as much as prescribing physician. Quick aside: palliative care -- a very while it includes, it is not It is not limited to hospice. It's simply about comfort So please know that you don't to benefit from palliative care. Now, let me introduce you to Frank. Sort of makes this point. I've been seeing Frank now for years. He's living with advancing prostate cancer We work on his bone pain and his fatigue, but most of the time we spend thinking really, about our lives. In this way, Frank grieves. In this way, he keeps up with so that he's ready to take in Loss is one thing, Frank has always been an adventurer -- he looks like something and no fan of regret. So it wasn't surprising saying he wanted to raft Was this a good idea? With all the risks to his safety Many did, but he went for it, It was a glorious, marvelous trip: freezing water, blistering dry heat, wildlife howling off the flaming walls all the glorious side of the world Frank's decision, while maybe dramatic, is exactly the kind if we only had the support to figure out So much of what we're talking about today After my accident, I changed my major to art history. Studying visual art, I figured a really potent lesson so much of what he was seeing. Perspective, that kind of alchemy turning anguish into a flower. Flash forward: now I work called the Zen Hospice Project, where we have a little ritual When one of our residents dies, the mortuary men come, and as we're heading for the gate, we pause. Anyone who wants -- fellow residents, family, the hearse drivers too, now -- shares a story or a song or silence, as we sprinkle the body It takes a few minutes; it's a sweet, simple parting image rather than repugnance. Contrast that with the typical experience much like this -- floodlit room and blinking lights that don't stop Cleaning crew swoops in, and it all feels as though that person Well-intended, of course, but hospitals tend to assault our senses, and the most we might hope for anesthetic, literally I revere hospitals for what they can do; But we ask too much of our hospitals. They are places for acute trauma They are no place to live and die; Now mind you -- I am not that our institutions Beauty can be found anywhere. I spent a few months in a burn unit at St. Barnabas Hospital where I got really including good And one night, it began to snow outside. I remember my nurses And there was no window in my room, but it was great to just imagine it Next day, one of my nurses She brought it in to the unit. I cannot tell you the rapture I felt and the coldness dripping the miracle of it all, the fascination as I watched it melt In that moment, just being any part of this planet than whether I lived or died. That little snowball packed to both try to live In a hospital, that's a stolen moment. In my work over the years, who were ready to go, ready to die. Not because they had found but because they were so repulsed in a word, cut off, or ugly. There are already record numbers of us and into ever older age. And we are nowhere near ready We need an infrastructure these seismic shifts in our population. Now is the time to create I know we can because we have to. The alternative is just unacceptable. And the key ingredients are known: policy, education and training, systems, bricks and mortar. We have tons of input We know, for example, from research what's most important to people comfort; feeling unburdened existential peace; and a sense Over Zen Hospice's nearly 30 years, we've learned much more Little things aren't so little. Take Janette. She finds it harder to breathe Well, guess what? She wants to start smoking again -- and French cigarettes, if you please. Not out of some self-destructive bent, but to feel her lungs filled Priorities change. Or Kate -- she just wants to know her dog Austin is lying his cold muzzle against her dry skin, instead of more chemotherapy she's done that. Sensuous, aesthetic gratification, we are rewarded for just being. So much of it comes down to by way of the body -- the very thing Probably the most poignant room in the Zen Hospice guest house which is a little strange when you realize that so many of our residents But we realize we are providing smell, a symbolic plane. Seriously, with all the heavy-duty stuff one of the most tried and true is to bake cookies. As long as we have our senses -- even just one -- we have at least what makes us feel human, connected. Imagine the ripples of this notion for the millions of people Primal sensorial delights that say impulses that make us stay present -- no need for a past or a future. So, if teasing unnecessary suffering out then tending to dignity by way of the body -- is design cue number two. Now this gets us quickly to the third namely, we need to lift our sights, so that life and health and healthcare can become about making life rather than just less horrible. Beneficence. Here, this gets right at the distinction between a disease-centered and a patient- and here is where caring even playful act. &quot;Play&quot; may sound like a funny word here. But it is also one of our Consider every major compulsory effort The need for food has birthed cuisine. The need for shelter The need for cover, fashion. And for being subjected to the clock, well, we invented music. So, since dying what might we create with this fact? By &quot;play&quot; I am in no way suggesting or that we mandate There are mountains of sorrow and one way or another, Rather, I am asking that we make space -- physical, psychic room, to allow life so that rather than just aging and dying can become We can't solve for death. I know some of you are working on this. (Laughter) Meanwhile, we can -- (Laughter) We can design towards it. Parts of me died early on, and that's something we can all say I got to redesign my life and I tell you it has been a liberation to realize you can always find in what life you have left, like that snowball lasting all the while melting away. If we love such moments ferociously, then maybe we can learn to live well -- not in spite of death, but because of it. Let death be what takes us, not lack of imagination. Thank you. (Applause)