Welcome to in the kitchen Ashlee Marie. I what I have for you today. all the tips and tricks that I have, so won't over cook and will come out perfect, along with my very favorite recipe! Alright let's start with the crust! you can pretty much use anything you want for a graham cracker crust obviously graham crackers which is what we're using or flavored graham crackers. I really enjoy gingersnap and adding those as well and even some ground nuts. Now you want about cup and a quarter crumbs, which happens of a pack of graham crackers. Now you can go ahead and use your food and really chop these up fine but I that rather than get something else dirty just using a ziplock bag and rolling pin work great Now we're ready to add the sugar. And again I just keep it in the bag. It keeps me from getting another bowl dirty and it's super easy so now we want some melted butter I'm just gonna pour it right in here. Now I like to use freezer bags cause their a little bit sturdier and they don't really have a problem melting through them, or anything like that, close this up so I don't make a mess this is a great one to let your kids help with. I don't know about you, but mine love helping me in the kitchen Alright you wanna get that nice crumbly and kneady. Alright, grab a 10 inch springform pan. Now the reason that you want a springform pan is because you can open it up and pop your cake out without having to try to scrap or basically ruining your cheesecake trying to get it out. You wanna just pour our crust down in there I like to get every last piece I can out of the bag I love crust right now comes the messy part, make sure you've washed your hands I kinda first go through and just to hard not what we don't want is for this to be to loose because then the crust will just fall apart alright our oven is preheated and we're ready to put our crust in our crust is done so we're going to pull it out of the oven. and because this oven runs a little hot I'm actually gonna bring it down a little bit lower for me. do whatever you need to do to get your we want our oven really moist so I'm gonna take a big pan of water and in this case I'm using a big huge cake pan cause, thats what I have. So have our temperature down to what will hopefully be 300 hundred derees we have are our water on the bottom rack and we have our crust cooling. Now it's this is a really easy cheesecake recipe, and it's the best. it's just 4 ingredients cream cheese, sugar, vanilla and eggs. one of my biggest tips for not getting is to make sure everything is at room temperature now you can tell already because this cream cheese was already softened its nice and smooth. It took barely any work at all. So we're gonna go now what we wanted it now is beat it. Add the vanilla We want to beat until the sugar is there's no chucks and it has this great velvety feel to it now we're ready to scrape down the sides and mix it again. Or I love this new tool that this fits right and I it scrapse the sides down as you go. so you can see just how smooth this is it's just perfection and it really smells good already. Anyway, now our very last is the eggs. I learned this tip, actually, from Martha Stewart and I swear by it. You can beat the any of your other ingredients as much as you want. But once you add the eggs barely mix it in. All those eggs being beat in are actually one of the number one causes for you wanna be a little bit delicate with this. Since I just want to get all those nasty strands of the egg whites kind of broke up I'm smooth so that I'm not whipping a lot of air into these eggs alright it looks pretty smooth to me still a little sting, but not too bad Splash gaurd Now we don't take away all of the goodness that we just did by whipping those together so slowly so we just wanna barely as soon as it's incorporated stop. Alright so as you can see this is nice and thick and creamy and pour that right into our crust. Now one of the things you wanna be aware of when your is our crust is still pretty delicate. So if you just plop it all in one spot and then smooth it around you might break up your crust a little bit. So glop it in... I'm not quite sure the best way to say that... Into the pan I kinda make sure that I'm glopping it evenly. Go ahead smooth it out. It doesn't have to be perfect we're actually gonna end up covering this with a nice sour cream topping as well. You just mostly want the top even. we're gonna leave it and we are not for just over an hour. Probably an hour and a quarter It can take a little bit longer but if you're constantly opening up the oven then you getting rid of that even temperatured environment. And we so try not to open the oven until your yours is ready. We just a few minutes left I'm gonna get the sour cream topping ready to go. You have sour cream, sugar, and vanilla. the first time around go out it just a little slowly so.... So your not getting splashes everywhere. Then after that go for it. Our timer when off so it's time to check our cheesecake. So what I just do is give a little giggle and you see how that center is still jiggly? So we're gonna pull it out and add the sour cream topping and then put it back in the oven for 5 more minutes. Now we don't want to plop this in one big plop and have it weight down that still jiggly section of our cheesecake. So you wanna be careful as you add this. Now it's nice and warm which is gonna help with the spreadability of this. Now notice I didn't use the whole thing it's kind but I do try to spread it pretty smooth. and time to go back in the oven alright, 5 more minutes this is my last tip when it comes to instead of pulling it out and sitting it on the and let it naturally cool on its own. So our cheesecake is out of the oven, it's cooled down to room temperature it sat in the fridge for over a day and I'm so happy with how it turned out. So now we're going to take off the sides to unmold it. So just VERY slowly take that off. kinda pop away from the cheesecake. Kinda let the pan do the work for you if you really paranoid about you that kinda six of one half a dozen of around it I end up making a bigger mess than if I just let the pan kinda pull some away on it's own. So it's totally up to you I find the easiest way to do this the bottom and very carefully go up set the ring aside and look how beautiful, it is gorgeous it's not too dark it has a little bit of golden color around amazing now this is the real test right? you jiggling it all like it was when we first make sure when you cut it to go all the I don't know about your cheesecake pan but mine has a little bit of a lip around the sides so once I get that cut to the center I'm just the edge right now to make the next cut I like handy so that I can just keep cutting without making a huge mess along the top Now the worst part any cake, cheesecake or not, is getting that first slice out. There we go... alright! look how beautiful let's try some before we share It's perfect that sour cream topping tangy tartness but the cheesecake itself being so... just is... Ahhhh, just to die for. It's creamy it's smooth really cheesy, which is what I like. alright, that recipe turned out perfect and I you I hope you guys go ahead and make it. website to get a printable recipe and also all those tips and tricks that I printed out for you. Also I would love to would like to see. what recipes of mine that I have done or Also of course Cake design any cake that you'd be interested in seeing a tutorial for. Don't forget to subscribe. This is a brand new channel and I have so many plans for this year I don't want you guys to miss any of it Anyway, I'm gonna finish eating. thanks for watching