The local big eaters' favorite: Hearty Portions of Chinese Cuisine at 'Manpuku-Tei The second-generation owner, Owner) &quot;I'm just imitating what I saw my father do. We'll be giving you an inside look at a day in the life of Manpuku-Tei, Ayauta-gun, Kagawa Prefecture A town where agriculture and fishing thrive, As you stroll through the town, you'll find historical buildings and beautiful nature scattered throughout, making it perfect for a leisurely walk. In such a town, there is one Chinese restaurant that Manpuku Tei The restaurant is already preparing for the day Mr. Yasuo Ozaki First thing in the morning, until the owner (his son) arrives (Father) (The soup ingredients are) chicken bones, pork bones, pork knuckles We mix it with the soup from the previous day (Photographer) So you make it on the day, combining the ingredients from the previous day? (Father) It's already out. (Photographer) So your father (Father) That's right. My son took over the business We remove the excess fat from the soup The skins and roots of vegetables are used to make the soup stock Placing the salad for the set meal We'll also add potato salad The rice that was cooked in advance is done. The owner comes to work. Mr. Ryosuke Ozaki From here, the father and son Drain the cabbage for the gyoza. The owner's mother arrives at work. The pork is cut up. Preparation of chashu pork Marinade (dried sardines, kelp, soy sauce) Soy sauce Salt and sugar The grilled pork is soaked in the marinade. While the pork is being grilled The pork, which has been marinated in the sauce, Preparation of fried chicken Sake soy sauce grated ginger Homemade grated garlic The fried chicken is marinated until the next day Next, the chicken that was prepared the day before eggs potato starch Every morning, it is Preparation of gyoza Chinese chive The cabbage that was dehydrated earlier Salt grated ginger and grated garlic lard The filling for the gyoza is wrapped in the skin. The egg supplier has arrived. They deliver fresh eggs every morning. (Egg supplier) The eggs laid by the hens at dawn today We deliver to customers in the neighborhood. Salt sugar soy sauce oyster sauce potato starch dissolved in water The sweet vinegar that has been made Making Chinese soup Pepper Preparing the eggs to be used in fried rice and omu-rice The prepared pork is The strained sauce is used as a We cut up the pork belly. We deep-fry the pork for sweet and sour pork. Preparing the onions The son takes over the onion cutting We're in the final push to get the shop open! 11:00 - Opening time Menu A set meal with a generous portion of food, from 770 yen Customers are coming in one after another (Staff) One large set meal C and one Manpuku Gyoza. Making Sweet and Sour Pork We'll also fry some fried chicken sweet and sour potato starch mixed with water Sweet and Sour Pork Set Meal Fried Chicken and Sweet and Sour Pork Set Meal We will be cooking the meat bowl and the fried rice at the same time. Fried rice Next, we will finish making the rice bowl with pork. Rice bowl with pork Making Twice-cooked pork At the same time as cooking the fried pork, Fried chicken and fried pork set meal (Staff) This is set meal C. (Photographer) How is the taste? (Male customer) It's delicious! (Male customer) It's delicious. This restaurant is good. (Photographer) Is it delicious? As I thought? Male customer 3) I ordered the fried pork and fried chicken set meal. The gyoza are done. Manpuku Gyoza Cooking Yaki-meshi (for take-out) Green onion and chopped roast pork Omelet rice (for takeaway) Making Omelet rice We're also making eggs over here Ketchup Omelette Rice Tenshinhan Sweet &amp; Snack Pork for 3 servings Fried chicken and sweet &amp; sour pork set meal for 3 people Fried chicken and sweet &amp; sour pork set meal (Mother) This is the fried pork set meal. (Male customer) It's filling and Everything is delicious! Staff) Thank you very much (Photographer) Did you buy something? (Male customer 1) My colleagues can't come, so Male customer 2) Everything is delicious. From rice bowls to set meals Male customer 1) It's delicious! And the portions are big too! Making Gomoku Yakisoba Gomoku Yakisoba Chinese rice bowl Cooking ramen noodles The sauce for the ramen is being added. The egg is being placed on top Tenshinmen (Staff) Most people take it away. I think everyone eats it at home Cooking chicken and eggplant stir-fried with miso Fried chicken and eggplant with miso Fried chicken and eggplant with miso Making Mapo Tofu Making Omelette Rice for 3 servings The restaurant is full. (Photographer) Do you come here often? (Male customer) It was delicious, so (Photographer) How is it? (Male customer) It's delicious! Orders for fried rice are coming in one after another The prawns are being washed in salt. The prawns are being seasoned. Eggs Shrimp in chili sauce Making Miso Champon Special miso Miso Champon Making lebanilla and Tenshinhan (Photographer) How was the taste? (Male customer) It was delicious. The flavor was strong, and it went really well with the rice. I'm pretty full now. I'm full! (Staff) One small bowl of tenshinhan. One full-sized gyoza. (Male customer) It's delicious! (Male customer) I come here all the time. (Photographer) What do you recommend? (Male customer) The omu-rice is recommended. This is usually what I usually order. It's really addictive! The local guys are also charmed by the taste Fried chicken and Mapo tofu set meal (Male customer) I come here about once a week! (Photographer) Once a week? (Photographer) Is this the usual amount? (Male customer) I'm not a person who eats this much Making Champon Male customer 1) It was delicious~ Photographer) Is there a reason for your amazing skill? (Shopkeeper) I've been helping out since I was little, I'm just doing it by watching my dad and copying him I worked at Toyota for a while, so I went to train in the Kanto region Basically, I think it's best to keep things the same I think it's good to do things the same way as before. We can add more items to the menu Manpuku Tenshinhan (Shopkeeper) This is the tenshinhan. Eating it tenshinhan. Manpuku Manpuku dumpling (Photographer) Is there anything special about Manpuku Gyoza? I think it's because they're handmade. Everything is handmade. Please try it! Actual meal Manpuku Service set meal E Eating Making Omelette rice (large) (Shopkeeper) This is an omu-rice. Total weight 1.6kg Eating Itadakimasu When the egg, which has been roasted to a delicious crisp, is broken... Along with the steam, Once you take a bite, the aroma and flavor This is the essence of &quot;Manpukutei&quot; Thank you for the meal. My husband (father) is a good listener I went to Yakuriji (O-Seitensan) They said &quot;Manpukutei&quot; I had the impression that Manpukutei was old-fashioned and tacky at first. He's a good son who listens to his parents, We got the OK from Yakuriji (O-Seitensan),