Welcome to Identifying Luck for Mario Party It is here where we will learn how to best at the only Mario Party game that has the of the board. If only that charming aesthetic returned. Let's dive into the pipe and take care of... We've got the Coin Star, Happening Star, This third one awards the player that collected You can turn bonus stars off if you wish, then you'll be turning off hidden blocks You're also gonna make them cry. Don't make them cry. Our spaces for this title are: Blue, Red, Happening, Bowser, Chance, Battle, During the final five turns, blue spaces and red spaces will always have A hidden block can appear after landing In this title, there will always be two hidden One contains a star, and one contains 20 coins. If you get lucky and land on a blue space then you'll receive your reward and that will move to a different blue space. Only one hidden block can be on a blue space then the hidden blocks' placements will If the game's gone on without any hidden then target blue spaces that haven't been This kind of move should be low on your priorities, landing on the right blue space could mean Bowser spaces trigger the Bowser Roulette. Its selection gets prerandomized the moment so your decision of when to stop the roulette you had any choice to begin with. Coins For Bowser: This is the most common always appearing twice on the roulette wheel. The amount of coins taken varies depending and the placing of the player that landed For example, if you land on a Bowser space and the game is on a turn in-between the first what we refer to as midgame. then you will see "15 Coins for Bowser" If you land on the Bowser space with no coins, Bowser will give you 10 coins regardless of Bowser's Coin Potluck: Like Coins for Bowser, The amount of coins taken varies depending Bowser Revolution: Bowser takes everyone's This is still a great outcome to get if you're Its chances of appearing are slightly less Bowser's Chance Time: This is Bowser's *Whisper* We'll get to this after Chance Bowser's Multiplying Toads: Bowser does a "magic" trick that makes two Toads appear on the board. In effect, this moves the Star Space's position, However, one of the Toads is Baby Bowser in Anyone who pays him 20 coins for a Star makes This event will reset all inactive star spaces and begin anew starting from where the real toad is. To find him, you've either gotta get lucky The first is a magic lamp, which will always The second is a Bowser bomb, which will activate its corresponding event Bowser's Appearing Act: Bowser leaves, then appears at Baby Bowser's He'll roll tfhree dice blocks, making way If Bowser meets a player, he steals all of After his turn is over, he'll disappear. 100 Star Present, 10,000 Coin Present, Star These are all in yellow text. If any of them are selected, then Bowser won't Landing on a Bowser space when you have no So what if Bowser's Coin Potluck is landed You don't have any coins, let 'em take Revolution? Let's even the game up. Coins for Bowser? More like 10 coins for you. Bowser's Chance Time? As if that's anything to be afraid of! Not even Bowser's Appearing Act, the end The only option that can possibly turn out since it may move the star further away from This situation's rare though, so go for unless you're feeling in the mood for... Chance Time! This title's version of chance time functions The player still has to hit three blocks to Two of the blocks have pictures of all four and the one in the middle shows what they're The player can hit the blocks in any order, the remaining blocks will spin faster with The side blocks which show the players' Once a player's been selected, they'll disappear off the other dice block so they don't end up trading with themselves. The middle dice block, which determines what will roll one of these three cycles that it For example, if it's the final five turns, then this cycle will always be the one that's The dice block will start at the same spot which makes it possible to time your trades. So let's say I wanted to know how many seconds to get the "swap stars" trade for the All I have to do is start counting from the I see that trade. 0 and 2 and 3 and 4 and 5 and... There! Now I know how to get the swap stars I just have to jump at around five and a half or wait until 18 trades spin by. This trade is convenient to learn since it that isn't the case for all of them. Memorize the timings of the trades you really and you'll become a Chance Time beast. When it comes time to do the deed, you first need to identify which cycle the You'll know which one it is based on the Remember the timing for the trade you want The side dice blocks will then spin faster, but you shouldn't select a side just yet, as most trades distinguish between left and and you're more likely to land on who you So, think about who you want on each side, then determine which side is more important make that the side you hit for your second This way, you'll save the less important If the trade you selected at the beginning or swap coins &amp; stars one, then go on either side and land on the player of what's gonna be traded so you can at Bowser's Chance Time: Like Chance Time, but Bowser rigs it so that Unlike normal Chance Time, Stars cannot be If the player who gives coins to Bowser does Bowser will give them 10 coins. The middle dice block, which determines what will roll one of these three cycles that it It's not like you can put this knowledge since both dice blocks are spinning at their It's not too bad since you only have a 1 What also makes it better is that you wouldn't be giving your coins so while Bowser's Chance Time may sound just know that the odds are in your favor, and even if it doesn't work out, it's If a player layer on the Battle Space, Goomba comes by, gets a certain amount of and a Battle minigame begins. The amount of coins he'll take from each The possible results are 10, 20, 30, and 50. The chances each amount have of showing up During the first five turns, the low amounts are dominant and it's rare During the midgame, the low amounts are still but they give some more room for the higher During the final five turns, the low amounts so don't be surprised if that jackpot gets Speaking of which, players attempt to battle 1st Place gets 70% of the coins and 2nd Place gets 30% of the coins This won't always be the payout percentage; sometimes players will tie for 1st or 2nd, If the total jackpot is not a multiple of all coins but one will be distributed in the proper and the remaining coin goes to a random player. If a player lands on the Item Space, they will play an item minigame for a chance The minigame varies on the board being played. If a player passes the Bank space, they must If a player has less than 5 coins, the bank If a player lands on this space, the player The bank can hold up to 999 coins. You can tell how many coins are in the bank One means at least 5 coins, two means at least three means at least 25 coins, four means The coins stop piling up at this amount, so at that point you need to keep track yourself. This space has more potential to change the Not many banks are close to junctions in this but if you happen to be next to one and you then there's little reason to not do so. If losing five coins would be a huge detriment then try to avoid the bank space as best you sometimes you'll run into it no matter what so play as if you losing five coins in the There's a bank space near the beginning which is good for the player that rolls last, since they'll get a lot of coins if they first three players pass it. This title has ten items for players to get Mushroom, Skeleton Key, Plunder Chest, Dueling Golden Mushroom, Magic Lamp, Boo Bell, Bowser These first seven items can be obtained by or winning them from an item minigame. These last three items can be obtained through or a chance event in Bowser Land, which we'll A player can only hold one item at a time Diiiiiiiid you know that the item shop isn't What they have in stock when you visit is actually dependent upon what turn the game For example, if it's the final five turns then the item shop will have a mushroom, a and a magic lamp. With this knowledge, you'll know exactly Heck you could purposely lower your placing if you're that desperate to get it; while this kind of move is incredibly situational, Every CPU has an item they're more likely when they're at a shop or target when it Mario prefers Mushrooms, Luigi prefers Skeleton Wario prefers Dueling Gloves, Yoshi prefers I'll go over some strategies you can execute but for now, let's arm ourselves with general Mushroom When used, this item allows the player to The digits of both rolls are added up together, and the player will move that many spaces. If the player rolls a 7 on both dice blocks, if they roll any other number on both dice If you're trying to get somewhere quick then the mushroom's here for you. Skeleton Key This item is activated automatically whenever a player who possesses it is about to run into a locked gate. They'll be given the option to open the and if they do, then the key will be used Funny enough, you don't even have to go you could use the skeleton key and leave. This may sound like a weird move, but keep in mind that the skeleton key has a lot of potential for overstaying its welcome in your inventory. You can use every other item whenever you except the Bowser Bomb, but that's beside The skeleton key can only be used at a gate so if you ever shoot for it, then make sure otherwise you'll put yourself at a disadvantage. Plunder Chest When this item is used, the player using it Considering players can only hold one item the plunder chest is busted. Imagine you're at the item shop, see a golden mushroom and think to yourself just for you to remember "oh, one of my opponents has a plunder chest cool." Even worse, imagine you're playing an item see a magic lamp and go "alright, let's just for you to remember "oh, one of my opponents has a plunder chest and will steal from me if I get this great item, COOL", yeah...the plunder chest is dumb. Granted, your chances of being stolen from if there's no one else to steal from, so you can feel a little bit safe if there's The plunder chest commands respect; if someone has it, try to bait them into stealing or just hope that they steal from someone Dueling Glove When used, the player using it will summon The player will then choose an opponent to After this, the player will have the option In this title, you can only duel for coins. The highest amount of coins the player can can't go over the least wealthy player's total amount, obviously. You should get this item from an item minigame Imagine spending 15 coins to bet coins against you're not guaranteed to win, unless you're me of course. You're better off shooting for a boo bell, so if you're desperate to take away coins Just keep in mind which board you're on, since that decides which duel minigame you'll we'll get more into that later. Golden Mushroom When used, the player using it will roll three The digits of all three rolls are added together, and the player will move that many spaces. If the player rolls a 7 on all 3 dice blocks, if they roll any other number on all three If you're trying to get somewhere really then the golden mushroom's here for you. Warp Block When used, the warp block will appear above The player will then hit the block. The effect of this is that the player will The player can then roll a Dice Block to move You can't control which player you warp but there's still some strategy to be had here. Let's say every other player on the board then the Warp Block is gonna be useful no If you're willing to bet a 1 in 3 odds of then make sure the other two players' positions if you end up switching with them instead. If you switch with a player that's on a then the bank will count that as you having which is weird since you can always roll after making this a strange scenario where you can If you switch with a player that's on a then you'll be allowed the opportunity to There may be other wacky warp block shenanigans but that's all for now. Magic Lamp When used, the player summon the Mushroom He gives the player a ride on his back and The player is then asked whether they wish This item's cost of 30 coins is rough. You normally don't want to shell out that but cutting another player off from a star may be that vital to you winning the game at times. Check where everyone is relative to the star's keep their placings in mind, and decide from The magic lamp only brings you to the star This means you can use it to teleport to the not purchase one, and go on your way. That may sound ridiculous, but there are plenty of situations where this For example, your opponent just purchased may as well use up the magic lamp instead As said before, the magic lamp won't get it'll lead you directly to the real star. Boo Bell When used, the player using it will summon Boo lets players steal coins or stars from It costs five coins to steal coins. The minimum and maximum amount of coins Boo For example, on the first five turns, the whereas the highest amount of coins he can What determines the exact number of coins depends on how quickly the victim mashes when The faster they mash, the less he steals. While stealing coins during the midgame and it's a quick way of getting players to target Check if anyone else has a boo bell or is and make your best judgment. It costs 50 coins to steal stars and you still have no way to defend yourself if you're the victim. Your only real option is to convince the player this can be done by slyly mentioning that whereas a different player does, making them a better option to steal from Regardless of what you say, don't be too Bowser Suit When used, the player using it will masquerade The masqueraded player will then roll the and any players whom are passed will have If the player passes Baby Bowser during their he will give them all the coins he has collected When used at the right time, the Bowser Suit Try using it at the most opportune time, such as when multiple players are ahead of With the right execution, this item could Characters other than Baby Bowser sometimes but it doesn't affect their gameplay functions, except for three characters in Bowser Land who will give the player in the Bowser Suit Bowser Bomb When used, Baby Bowser will transform into Bowser will then roll three dice blocks, and Any player that Bowser passes will lose ALL This is an incredibly scary item for a player especially if you're rocking a lot of coins. To avoid all of them going down the drain, get as far away from the Baby Bowser space as soon as you see the player get this item. If you've already taken your turn or you then...just hope Bowser rolls low. You normally don't want to win this in an but if your opponents are far ahead in coins, then sometimes it's best to take them down Remember that this item reveals the fake toad Once five turns remain, the final five turns The event is hosted by Toad or Baby Bowser He'll give the current standings then introduce Usually, a green or red-shelled Koopa Troopa but sometimes Whomp makes the prediction who will always choose Mario, even if he isn't However, it is always Bowser who makes the he'll always choose the player who is currently The predicted player is given ten coins from From that point onward, blue and red spaces' and players that land on the same space as play a duel minigame with that player before If a player lands on the same space as more then they must choose who they wish to duel. Dueling another player for coins is a fine so long as you're confident in playing the If you are, then BET IT ALLLLLLLLLLL- I'm joking, unless you really want to meme This title's an amusement park and they want you to know it! Since very board's name has "land" at the Another thing they have in common is... these difficulty ratings, yet again. I'll admit, they're a bit more accurate but I still encourage you to ignore them for the most part. Arrgh it's time to find some booty in Pirate Here's the space line- *cough* oh god, this is going to be terrible... Arrgh it's time to find some booty in Pirate Here's the space line-up laddy. Out of all the boards, it ties for the least and ties for the least amount of red spaces Let's remind ourselves how the star space On most boards, when you buy a star, the star space itself will move to another However, only certain spaces have been programmed we refer to these spaces as star spaces, and When a star space isn't active, it looks Let's say you're in the middle of a game. You remember that these five star spaces have and you notice that the current active star so I ask you, where will the next star spawn? Riiiiiiiight here, since all the other ones or will deactivate after its star has been Pretty straightforward stuff. Baby Bowser is initially placed on one of and every time that a star is bought from If a player passes Baby Bowser, he will steal However, he occasionally gives a player 5 later claiming that this was an accident. Awww, I guess Bowser's occasional kind-heartedness There are two Thwomps that block shortcuts, and request a fee from players if they want The fee always starts at 1 Coin, but goes up by at least one Coin each time The fee can never lower, its limit is 999 and the two Thwomps do not share the same This gimmick should feel familiar, as it was reused from Yoshi's Tropical Island The main difference between the two is Whereas in Yoshi's Tropical Island you needed Pirate Land makes the board more open, only requiring you to pay a Thwomp if you You can pay many more coins than the previous to make a short cut inaccessible to players This is best done when you know there's such as a star, or boo. This guy's especially useful on this board since players already have their hands full with these fees. Stealing coins to prevent players from getting so great in fact, that you might get targeted If you end up with an empty wallet, then you'll be at a bigger disadvantage be able to take any shortcuts. This is why you need to be cautious when it don't dip too low. If you land on a blue space next to a dock, then a shark will come and take you to This is indicated by the arrows on docks themselves. That's cool and all, but why are these blue Kinda weird. Anyways, landing on one of these spaces is quick 'n easy. The right dock is next to the item shop, so if you have the option of landing on the then consider doing so if getting an item If you land on a happening space then a ship will fire cannonballs this will blast everyone that was standing If they don't have any movement items, then If you're worried about being on the receiving then make sure you have a movement item in someone is going to get blown up, and it very There's one gate on each island just waiting The left gate...doesn't actually help out Yeah, you could use it to get to this star but you could also just pay the Thwomp a few There's even a Bowser space on the other The only reason to use your skeleton key here or if you desperately need to cut ahead as Otherwise, you're better off saving it for which'll bring you much closer to boo, and There's a high chance of you landing on of the left island. Three of them in a row? Are you kidding me? Landing on one will make you play Pirate Land's Roll Out the Barrels. This is one of the easiest item minigames just keep track of the item you want and BAM, What's also good is having a mushroom or golden mushroom in your possession as you I said it before and I'll say it again. Getting blown off that bridge sucks. If you don't land on the blue space by the then you'll be spending multiple turns trying but with a mushroom, anything is possible! Unless you roll low, then only tears are possible. A magic lamp's value on this board will the shortcut fees have gotten. If you only have to pay around ten coins for then thirty coins for a magic lamp may not On the other hand, if that star's far and Pirate Land's duel minigame is Saber Swipes, where you simply need to execute all the buttons Overall, Pirate Land has this weird mixture You may find yourself in deep thinking mode, considering every player's position and before paying a Thwomp the exact amount of just for one of them to land on a happening So long as you're prepared for something I'm sure you'll be fine. Howdy partner! Welcome to Western Land! Here's out of all the boards, this un's got the the most red spaces at 10, the most battle and ties for the most item spaces at 8. In fact, this board has the most spaces out I think... Here are its seven star spaces. For a board this huge, you bet there's a Take a gander at Steamer, who travels around the board and stops at If a player wants to ride Steamer, he or she Once on, the player hits a block that decides If it shows Toad's head, the train moves forward If it shows a Goomba, the train moves backward Sadly, there isn't a way to get what you want. Landing on a happening space will make While Steamer is moving in either direction, players that are in the way are knocked back That last detail is crucial. Imagine one of your opponents being really just for you to knock them back to start. This kind of punishment was bad in Pirate it can be torture! Always keep track of where opponents are on it'd be a shame if you didn't take advantage whether it be through boarding the train, There's a Wiggler that owns a milk shop It asks players that come by if they want If the player accepts, the fee is paid, and all of the other players come to the milk While paying 20 coins may suck, this event You move your remaining spaces after the event's which will put you ahead of everyone else. If a threatening player was close to the star, then getting them outta there's a good move, Then it probably wasn't a good idea. The drawback to this event is that it places so keep in mind your opponents' coin totals Speaking of boo, there's two of them here! Man, who could forget that? It's like... there's no other board in the whole franchise that has two Boos on them! Wow! *crying* Using a mushroom or golden mushroom to quickly of the board can make you some serious coinage Try not to land on any spaces on the track if you don't wanna get sent back to the starting space. This whole time I've been making it sound getting sent to the starting space is always It can be great sometimes! Imagine if the star's all the way down here Sucks, right? Well if you get hit back to the starting space It's also not too far away from the item this board's item minigame: Give Me a Brake! This one requires timing. Just press the a button when the item you There are two gates on the board, one on the The left gate functions as a shortcut, and Don't be afraid to use your skeleton key just be careful of the Bowser space. Funny enough, there are two Bowser spaces There's also a bank there just waiting to "Alright I get it, this gate's worth taking" but no no no, deciding to move towards the To do that, would be throwing away a great The initial path towards boo even avoids the and has a happening to boot! "Okay, so this gate isn't worth taking&quot; For the most part. The secret that this gate's been holding to where a star can spawn! That's right! A star can spawn riiiiiiiiight here. So unless you're grabbing that star or landing then take the route towards boo. This will put you on the tracks, but the risk Yes, warp blocks can be pretty useful on this Western Land's duel minigame is Quick Draw where all you need to do is react to the Goomba Overall, Western Land is a joy to transverse Take advantage of movement items and the train ZoomZike here do you read? We've arrived at Space Land! Here's the spaaace line-up; out of all the it ties for the least amount of red spaces has the least amount of happening spaces at and ties for the most amount of item spaces Here are its seven star spaces. The main part of this board is the Bowser-faced Every time it is passed by, it counts down It always starts at five, and when it reaches Bowser will fire the Bowser Beam from his which will travel from the top right corner Any players that get caught in the blast lose Thaaaaaat's terrible. But the chances of this happening to you are as long as you're paying attention to the If it's on 1 or 2, then maybe going down especially if you have tons of coins. Sometimes taking the shortcut is worth the after all, why take the long way when you If you're that intent on taking this route then use a mushroom or golden mushroom beforehand, unless you want a player close by to take On the other hand, if you see a threatening player within the while the counter's on a low number, then feel free to screw them over! A fantastic way of getting that counter down is to constantly move in circles on this part be careful though, since you may end up in To avoid the chances of this happening, have a skeleton key in possession so you can but don't consider doing that until you few moments. Players who land on a happening space will make a Thwomp or a Whomp in a space cruiser and any other players in the way, to the other The space cruiser's route depends on which If it was one of these happening spaces on then the space cruiser will chase every player If it was one of these happening spaces on then the space cruiser will chase every player However, there is also a group called the Upon doing this action, a If a player lands on a Happening Space with the speeder will chase them down as usual, but then the Snifit chases them down the bottom with any players in the way being chased as That's odd. Why would you ever wanna pay five coins so even further if the happening space event There's a few reasons. Let's say you're down here, and the star Yeah, bad luck. Under normal circumstances, this would be but if you pay 5 coins to a Snifit and manage then you'd move yourself backwards tons This kind of maneuver would put you much closer As always, you've gotta think from the opposing Is there a threatening player nearing closer Pay the Snifit and see if you can land on cuz if you do, then you and that player are just make sure they don't get angry enough Yeah, his name's coming up again. I know I sing boo's praises a lot, but it's only because of how useful he is Here in Space Land, you can visit him fairly you decide to take this route over and over. Doing so will not only ensure that you can but it'll also put you in a good position should one of these star spaces activate. Not to mention that you'll be avoiding both The downside of sticking to this route is that you'll be missing out on all the which leads us to this board's item minigame: Hammer Slammer! This one's about precise positioning. If you want an item down low, then don't if you want an item up high, then hit the just make sure you don't hit it too hard There are two gates on the board, one on the The left gate provides you with a shortcut so if you're looking for fast travel then Oh, if there were any doubts about using your be gone now. I give this gate an A...+ because it also which can be dangerous, but hey, IT'SA FUN! Let's see how the right gate stacks up. There's only blue spaces on its route, which Is it a useful shortcuuuuut it skips boo...why Yeah this gate provides a shortcut to the but I can't imagine many scenarios where since there's only one star space close heck it even skips a star space. Unless you're in that rare situation where and no one else is near it, you're better off using your skeleton key For a board that looks so chaotic, the stars Mushrooms and golden mushrooms are still useful but they aren't as necessary as they were I'm also finding it hard to recommend using it's not a terrible item for this board but its usefulness isn't as prevalent because its fairly easy to adjust where you're Space Land's duel minigame is Time Bomb, where all you have to do is stop your timer Overall, Space Land can be a pain for those and a joy for those that are. Make sure you're the latter. I-is this thing picking up? I sure hope so. This is Mystery Land. Here's the space line-up; out of all the boards, it has the least amount the most amount of happening spaces at 18, the least amount of battle spaces at 3, and the least amount of total spaces at 81. Here are its seven star spaces. ... why did I reuse the same joke? It is divided into four areas, to which people The area you warp to isn't random and the board wants you to know that judging from these huge arrows. Each area has a designated space players will This is made clear by the outline the space For example, if you land on a happening space then you will always teleport to this space You'll be happy to hear that you are given which prevents it from acting too much like Players can pay 10 coins to have a Bob-omb but sometimes the UFO will malfunction and If you land on a happening space while in then you'll be teleported a random area. The chances of you ending up at the ruins and even if you do, then you have a good chance This is why you shouldn't be afraid to take especially if it'd bring you closer to the star. You may have noticed these strange houses If you visit one, you can pay 5 coins to curse or another player to reduce the number on Always view the map and check EVERY player's If someone's close to the star, then you If someone's close to chance time, then you can increase their odds of landing There are many possibilities to be had here, There are two gates on the board, one on the They're both pretty equal in terms of usefulness almost immediately. This junction isn't too shabby either. It lets you move between areas on your own instead of hoping that you land on a happening The only difference between these gates, other than their positions of course, are the spaces they provide on their routes. The right gate has two blue spaces, whereas the left gate has one blue space and Depending on what kind of person you are, that chance time space could make the left or worse than the right one. For me? IT MAKES IT A LOOOOOOOT BETTER! I think it's safe to say that mushrooms and golden mushrooms won't help you out on this board that much. Each area loops back into itself, so a high number doesn't matter as much you need to land on a happening space. It's more useful to grab a skeleton key so you have more of a choice in where you're heading. Using warp blocks on this board is meeeeean. Imagine one of your opponents having spent to finally get to the area with the star, just for them to switch positions with you. That's evil, frustrating, and a good option but prioritize skeleton keys a bit more, okay? Boo's located in the top left area, so if you're gonna get stuck in any area, hope it's that one so you can visit him If there's any area to not get stuck in, it's the one that's hosting Baby Bowser cuz if you're there in that small space then you can be pretty sure that all your Mystery Land's item minigame is Mallet-Go-Round, where you have to time your swings to knock It's duel minigame is Psychic Safari, where you need to alternate pressing A and faster than your opponent to win. Overall, Mystery Land is yours for the taking Prepare to enter your nightmares in Horror out of all the boards, this one has quite but the same can't be said for its mechanics. Here are its seven star spaces. Go for them if you dare! MWUAHAHAHAHAHA... The gimmick of this board is that it alternates You can keep track of when the time of day's if you check the icon on the top middle part Sun means daytime and moon means nighttime. If you see a sun with clouds or a moon with then that means the time of day is going to The time of day determines which Boos are During the day, these two are active and these During the night, these three are active and You may have noticed that this boo slab looks that's because it's home to BIG BOO. This boodacious big boo boi will give you from all the other players for three times That's 15 coins to steal coins from everyone The minimum and maximum amount of coins Big For example, on the first five turns, the lowest amount of coins he can steal is whereas the highest amount of coins he can This is triple the amount you'd get from which makes the cost well worth it especially Stealing a star from every player sounds great, Ehhhhhhh, it's situational. If all three players have a star, then yeah, go for it. But if only two players have a star then that's Remember, a normal boo can steal one star so if you visit two boos back to back then altogether, that's 50 coins cheaper than what Big Boo The obvious difference is that you'd actually the exchange. I'd only spend 150 coins to steal two stars otherwise I'd travel to the many other boos Obviously, don't steal a single star for There are two gates on the board, one on the It's best to use your skeleton key on the otherwise you should hold off on using your same logic applies for the bottom gate and You could go the whole game without visiting but he's such a powerhouse in this board During the day, Whomps guard three separate and players who wish to take the path Whomp Players that take the path Whomp is not guarding These Whomps are similar to the ones from At nighttime, the Whomps are under a spell This makes your decisions during the daytime it isn't just about you getting to where it's also about blocking your opponents There are other ways of changing the time rather than just waiting 2 turns for day to Landing on a Happening Space also changes At nighttime, players that come by a dancing are asked by a few Boos and Mr. I's if they Accepting this makes night become day, hey That's pretty cool. During the daytime, players that come by the are answered at the door by Kamek the Magikoopa. He asks players if they want him to light If accepted, he'll light it, and day becomes Regardless of whatever method is used, always I cannot stress that enough. For example, if it's daytime and a threatening key in hand, then don't turn it nighttime or else you'll Inversely, if it's daytime and you're then try to make it night beforehand. These are only a couple scenarios that could there are way more than these which is why the board on every turn. When players come to Mr. I's warp spot, he appears to them asking if they want to If they accept, Mr. I takes them, and any to the warp spot on the other side of the The fee for this is 10 coins during the day This move could be a fantastic one or a deadly Imagine if you brought a threatening player just for them to turn the time of day to night that'd really suck. Of course, you could totally screw over opponents by moving them far away from their intended it all depends on players' placements. You've already heard about the greatness but what about the other items? If it's nighttime, and you're next to then using a mushroom or golden mushroom would help you nail both of these boos in Don't be afraid to take this route without since you still have a good chance of making Horror Land's item minigame is Coffin Congestion, where all you need to do is keep track of end. This board's duel minigame is Mushroom Brew, where you need to press the button that appears you win if you get more of them right than Overall, Horror Land has tons of stuff going Keep a close eye on your opponents' positions doing so will give you a lot of information board. Let's finish off the boards with Bowser Here's the space line-up; out of all the it ties for the least amount of blue spaces has the least amount of item spaces at 5, and has the most amount of bank spaces at Here are its seven star spaces. The main attraction in Bowser Land is the Anyone caught in the parade's path is pushed dropping two coins per space along the way. Players who pass by the parade planning offices five coins. If no one is in the parade's path, it will In addition, the parade cannot turn directly so if such a pathway suggests that, the parade You can lose tons of coins if you get caught Remember how many turns are left until the out of its way. If you're feeling evil, then change the direction of the parade's as possible. If you land on a happening space near a green then you'll enter it and reappear from a You can't reappear from the same pipe you There's a green pipe on each corner of the location. If you manage to pop up there, then you get a nice visit to your good pal unless your opponent's the one paying him. If you land on any of these three happening then you'll be forced to go on the metallic where you'll be caught in a loop unless which will spit you out right here. Ending up in this section of the board can at least you get a couple happening spaces The banks here work a bit different than what Instead of Koopa Banks, Bowser Banks appear. The Baby Bowser Banker will loan out five Players that land on the Bank Space must pay If the player does not have any coins at all, the Baby Bowser will take the star. It's definitely awesome that you can get but landing on it can really hurt! I'd tell you to purchase mushroom to try if it weren't for the fact that the item There's a Baby Bowser Shopkeeper, who sells an item to the players who pass even if they don't have enough coins and It can be a mushroom for 12 coins, skeleton Bowser Suit for 12 coins, Bowser Bomb for or warp block for 17 coins. I'm not sure why the warp block is more You could use it while you're stuck in the but using it anywhere else makes for a fairly If you wear the Bowser Suit and pass by a then the Baby Bowser will mistake you for and allow you to change the route of the parade Passing the Bowser Bank in the suit will grant Passing the item shop in the suit will grant a boo bell, a magic lamp, or a golden mushroom Talk about a steal! If there's anywhere to use the Bowser suit it's right behind the item shop or behind Altogether though, this version of the item shop is a big slap turns out. Normally, you'd be able to strategize by but here, your rights were taken away. You should still try to make the most of it There are two gates on the board, one on the left and one on the right. The right gate opens up the path to boo, which except that the pathway there has a Bowser The left gate guards a chance time space and which are good options, but the main reason this gate has for existing Under normal circumstances, a player would simply purchase a skeleton but since this board's item shop functions You instead have to hope that you get a skeleton here. But wait! The item minigame! Surely that can help out right? Well... Bowser Land's item minigame is Bowser Slots, where you need to match three of an item to While timing your jumps isn't the hardest it's definitely more difficult than the With all of this in mind, there's a high that it's gonna get lonely. This board's duel minigame is Rock, Paper, where Mario beats Bowser, Bowser beats Peach, It functions just like rock, paper, scissors. Overall, Bowser Land has a lot of wacky twists Don't let them catch you off-guard and you'll This title has 64 minigames that all have There's twenty-one 4-player minigames, eleven twelve 2-vs-2 minigames, eight battle minigames, six duel minigames, and six item minigames. Out of all Mario Party titles 1-7, this one ties for the most battle minigames, has the and ties for the most and least item minigames. A total of 21 minigames are reused from the either boasting a spin on the original concept, or blatantly copying all the mechanics of Needless to say, some of my advice for these The coin-collecting mini-games: Deep Sea Salvage, Quicksand Cache, and Magnet do not show up until the last 15 turns. These minigames have a yellow font in-game, indicating that instead of the basic rewards the players get the amount of coins they collect. 4-player minigames Abandon Ship Quickly climb to the top of the mast before This minigame will choose one of three obstacle They vary in board and coin placements, but There will always be ten boards and five coins Mash as the soon as the minigame starts or I can't tell you how many times I've seen because they assumed the minigame would give The big cheep cheeps will jump to the left to the right at 23, to the left again at 20, There is no variation to their pattern. Getting hit by them isn't even much of a so feel free to grab a few coins if you want. Just don't accidentally touch a board, since they'll knock you down in the same The final stretch, which takes place at about 15 seconds is an Once you reach close to the top, you'll but don't stop mashing until the end of Countless times will players slow down a little just for another player to zip right on up Bombs Away "The floating isle is under fire again, to win the prize!" The first Mario Party's version of this but this title's got bullet bills and a Any cannon balls that hit the water will cause so players need to adjust their position if Cannon balls that hit the island while you're to avoid this, jump as soon as a cannon ball Also avoid getting directly hit by a cannon then you'll get launched off of the island The bullet bills only hit the island. They're a bit quicker than the cannonballs since they take a more direct path to their Avoid them the same way you'd avoid a cannonball You can see where each cannon ball or bullet you can also see its shadow travel along the use these two details to predict where each The huge cannon will prepare to fire a missile That missile will land at around 2 seconds. You need to be airborne the moment that missile If you're grounded, it's insanely likely If you jump on a player's head then their be able to jump, making it way more difficult for them to adjust only jump on a player's head if they're jumping on their head while they're on the into the ocean. Bumper Balls "It's an all-out Bumper Balls bash! Use your analog stick to roll your ball and The first Mario Party's version of this on, but this title has three! Your strategy for winning should change depending on how many players are left and At the very beginning of the match, secure the middle of the platform so you aren't If two or more players are battling it out then build up your momentum and bump into It's easiest to do this on the island variation punch. The icy part of the snowy variation is a bit so make sure you're committed to your movements a bit of a chore. Bumping one player can cause a chain reaction, so you can put yourself in a great position If you're trying to bump someone off and then immediately retreat and get to a safe Your opponents can cause some serious knockback Remember that you don't win by the amount you win by being the last player remaining. When three to four players remain, you use the slingshotter(tm) technique by building and rolling in-between two players, bumping into one of them. If done correctly, then you should be flinging bumping each of them further away. This can be deadly when used near the ledge, and it's even great to use in the middle since you'll gain stage control over everyone who'll most likely be near the ledge once The stage that benefits the most from this The ice doesn't like you slowly down or which is completely okay if you're bouncing While this technique can be used over and it could also cause your opponents to team if this happens, then try to stay in-between ironically executing the technique once more. You won't be able to use the slingshotter(tm) You have the advantage when you're at centerfield, The snowy variation's ice makes it difficult so your opponent could build up their momentum and deal some knockback to you. As long as your aware of their movement though, it shouldn't be too big of a deal. If you two keep bumping into each other, yet you're bumping them further away, then If you see them turn away for a retreat, then predict their movements and ram into If the two of you are bumping into each other near the middle of the platform without any then you're at a stalemate. You could keep bumping into them and hold if you don't want them to have any chance or you could take the more risky approach and attempting to build momentum to give yourself This is most possible on the island variation, where you could go behind a hill and get a This could definitely backfire on you if your and strikes while you're vulnerable. If you're caught in a bad position, then make your movements unpredictable and Deep Sea Salvage A coin minigame. "Pilot your submarines and grab the coins The Hammer Bros. will throw coins, coin bags which are worth five coins, and The last of which will stun a player for a and make them lose the ability to pick up Seize the top of the ocean! The Hammer Bros. throw all the items in arcs, making it easy to tell where they're gonna If you see a coin bag thrown far to the left, then pre-emptively move in that direction If you see a mine thrown towards you, then dodge pre-emptively so you don't get You sink faster than coins, so feel free to You sink at the same rate as coin bags, so if there's one below you falling towards If it's by these ledges though, then you You don't have to mash A as fast as possible It's more relaxed than that, so don't Dizzy Dancing "The record spins and spins, and so does Be the first of the dizzy dancers to grab "Due to the players' dizziness, the controls and players have to figure out how each direction Sometimes up is down, sometimes up is left, Holding your analog stick towards the musical after all, your controls were changed. I recommend you hold your analog stick in make small adjustments to figure out what and then repeatedly jump towards the musical If you only jump at the end, then you the run the risk of other players which can be a pain. You could attack other players by punching, or ground-pounding them... but it's not worth it. You'd only be making it easier for other so stay focused on your goal. Hexagon Heat "Run to the hexagon that matches the color Last one standing wins!" This minigame is identical in concept to Mushroom Hey wait a minute... if Mario Party 2 gets to shamelessly reuse then shouldn't I be allowed to shamelessly from my Identifying Luck video for the first That seems fair right? Right! Let's take a look at look this script here, just replace a few words there. Perfect... Let's just slide this on over here... good. Replace the word "mushroom" with "hexagon", "water" with "lava", and the phrase "black mushroom" with "white "If a player falls into the lava, then they minigame." There's no pattern to the flags Toad raises, Position yourself on the white hexagon in so you'll be a short distance away from Once you get to the hexagon indicated, block the edges of it to make it harder for If they attempt to jump onto the hexagon you're and you manage to block them mid-jump, then they'll bounce off of you and land which at this point will most likely be the If you position yourself for them to jump then you can cause them to catapult off the If you're the one caught trying to access then take routes that avoid the other players If you realize that the jump you made is about you the game(tm), then you can interrupt your jump with a ground If you jump on someone, then they're partially and their movement speed is decreased. If you Ground Pound someone, then they'll get flattened onto the ground Regardless of how you stun another player, a movement option that's incredibly necessary especially when Toad starts speeding up as Here's the most crucial tip for this minigame, you can begin your jump towards the hexagons and land on them the moment they emerge if This won't help you win but it's useful and what else is more important than that? That'll teach you to not recycle old content I hope you've learned your lesson Mario Honeycomb Havoc "Hit the block and then take as many fruits Avoid the honeycomb to be the last one left." Your only options are to take one fruit or You have the greatest chance at winning if When it's your turn, count how many other and multiply that number by two, this lets us know the maximum number of objects before your next turn. Mark that number of objects from below the What you're left with are the remainders. You have a 100% chance of staying in the game if you reduce the amount of remainders to This may sound confusing, so let's see it Three other players times two is six. Mark six objects from below the next honeycomb and we're left with a remainder of two. We want it to be one though so we'll take Now, even if all the other players choose we'll still be in the game! Now this on the other hand...is a predicament. Two other players times two is four. Mark four objects from below the next honeycomb and we're left with a remainder of five. The lowest we can make that remainder is three Whereas a remainder of one is guaranteed to a remainder of anything else throws your fate In this scenario, if the next player rolls If they roll a two, then we're saved! It's hopelessly out of our hands, right? WRONG!! This coin here's our ticket to destiny. If we roll a two, then we'll move that coin However, they can only get that coin if they which is what we need them to roll in order By betting on humanity's pitiful lust for we've increased our chances of this player Using the One 'n Done technique is a little Mark two objects from below the last honeycomb, if you can make the next object your one remainder, then go for it and you're guaranteed to No changes there. If after your initial two markings, the next object isn't close enough for you then mark it along with the two objects after The objects after that last marking are now reduce them to one as shown before and you're If you're ever in the position where you then get rid of the one that's a threat There are going to be times where you'll to do. Don't be discouraged, and keep giving it Hot Rope Jump "The flaming Podoboo rope spins and spins. Jump the rope without touching a Podoboo." This title's version of this minigame is version. Here, the Podoboo rope will swing endlessly or until there's no one left standing, in which case the minigame will end in a draw. The rope stars off blue and turns red at 5 Although the red Podoboos look bigger, there doesn't seem to be a hitbox different. The rope will remain at the same speed up where it'll start to randomly speeding and Players tend to lose more by jumping early so pay close attention to the speed the rope around. If you last long enough, you'll have to deal with it going at blazing to do short hops to keep up. Full hops at the fastest speed won't cut Lava Tile Isle "Battle your opponents atop the Grindel Last one standing wins!" The Grindels will always start out in an I Every couple seconds, two Grindels will move A Grindel without any open spots next to them If you're standing on a Grindel as it's then you'll stay in the same spot and it'll I know it doesn't make any sense, but that's what happens, so try not to get Players can stun each other for a short time If you punch someone, they get pushed back a few feet. If you jump on someone, then they're partially flattened and cannot If you attack someone with a Ground Pound], then they'll get flattened onto the ground Punching has a short cool-down, so if you time your punches, then you can really mess up someone's day. Jumping or ground pounding on a player's runs the risk of catapulting yourself into While I'd normally advise against jumping ground pounding can be a powerful option, so long as you only do it when there's land Getting stunned by a ground pound is doubly about to move. Prioritize safety above all else. While it's nice to knock people off into wins. If more than one player is left standing when then the game ends in a draw. Mecha-Marathon "See how far your Mecha Fly Guy will fly! Whoever flies farthest, wins!" Press the A and B Buttons simultaneously to Press the A and B Buttons at the same time If you press one of the two buttons even a then your input won't count. You've gotta make sure both buttons are Platform Peril "Jump across the platforms that fall from as you race to be the first to cross the finish This title's version of this minigame has Party's. There's the inclusion of moving platforms, as well as conveyer belts either going forwards Since the quickest way to beat this minigame you don't want to change directions often. If you come across a moving platform and it's then move just enough to land on the edge Mind how fast your character is moving on so you don't jump too early or jump too This minigame has the same layout every time, but memorizing it won't really help you since the minigame plays at a rather relaxed There doesn't seem to be one path that trumps While this first moving platform is unfair the second moving platform corrects that by The two middle players need to make sure they or the players next to them when they make If there is an advantage to a certain position, then it doesn't seem to be big enough to Here's how to grab each coin without losing First coin: Do a short hop and then immediately Second coin: Do a full hop off the edge of Third coin: Do a short and then immediately Fourth coin: Do a full hop off the edge of Fifth coin: Do a short hop and then immediately You can jump on a player's head to reduce and restrict their jump, but you'll find it's just not worth it since bouncing off of their head will most Roll Call "Count how many characters are milling about. Whoever is right when roll call comes, wins!" Players have to count the Toads, Boos, or For the Toads, players need to count the moving instead of the mushrooms on the grounds. Pausing the game will remove all toads from to prevent you from cheating the timer. The good part about pausing is that it reveals in case you were confusing them with the toads. For the Boos, they can appear and disappear. Sometimes a few Boos will cross over to the making them a little tricky to count. Keep an eye for those ones especially so you For the Bob-ombs, players only count Bob-ombs that do not explode. The Bob-ombs don't move around as fast as so they're easier to count altogether, but you need to make sure you subtract one explodes. No matter which characters you're counting, I encourage you to keep your eyes steady the If you dart your eyes all over the place, then you'll lose track of how many characters Start in a corner, count the characters up move your eyes to another set, count them, and so on until you have a good idea of how If you feel like you messed up, then calmly this minigame gives you a fair amount of time. If you're utterly clueless by the end of then just copy another player's answer. To prevent your answer from being copied, count up to a fake number first, and then quickly count to the real number once the timer's nearly up. The player who has the same count as the blue when roll call comes, wins. If all four players match, then they all win. If no count matches the blue count at the when the character count is totaled, the minigame ends in a draw. Shell Shocked "Captain a Koopa Tank in an all-out duel! If you get hit twice, you're shell-shocked!" You have the option of shooting a straight Straight shots should be used when your opponent Lob shots should be used when your opponent If you hold down Z then you can strafe, which I highly recommend. It makes it much easier to lock onto your as you move around instead of the alternative, which feels clunky in comparison. The levels vary depending on how many Warp Stage 1 has one pipe in the center. Stage 2 has one pipe in the center of each Stage 3 has one pipe in the center, with 8 Keep in mind you're not shooting for points, you're shooting for survival. Whereas straight shots can move across the lob shots have a specific distance; this means that hiding behind warp pipes from is brilliant strategy. If you're worried about someone targeting then feel free to shamelessly screen peek Just don't get hit in the process. If two cannonballs hit one another, then they'll cancel each other out. If all four players are knocked out of the the minigame ends in a draw. Shy Guy Says "The Shy Guy will raise a flag, so just It's simple, right? The game continues until only one remains." This title's version of this minigame, unlike the first Mario Party's version, has this bypassing Lakitu, which serves as a timestamp for the game, if the player does not trigger their flag-raising the Shy Guy will pop their balloon. Players are given a lot of time to choose as more time passes, the Shy Guy will speed up and players will His speed will stop increasing at about ten Sometimes, he'll try to trick all of the When this happens, the amount of time players have to make a which is more obvious this time around since will go a bit slower. This mini-game will continue indefinitely until someone wins by being the last player or until the remaining players get knocked Don't be hasty at the beginning, there's no benefit to raising your flag When things start speeding up, pay very close attention to the Shy Guy's When things start speeding up, pay very close attention to the Shy Guy's if he raises only one arm, then there won't be a fake-out and you're If he raises both of arms, then take an extra split-second moment to and see which flag he leaves up, then choose that one. The fakeouts can get really tricky at times, so don't be hasty and focus on being quick Skateboard Scamper "It's the scariest scamper ever! You're trapped in Boo's haunted house While this title's version of this minigame they're actually pretty similar. The camera angle isn't too great here. Don't let it screw you out of a win. There's a moving platform at the beginning This staircase on the other hand will make If you don't jump with proper timing here then you risk getting stuck in a wall or a either way you'll fall behind. If at any point you notice you're falling then simply skate on the ground to get even Jumping doesn't slow you down but it doesn't it merely keeps you at the speed you're This is why it's okay to grab coins so long It's also a good idea to jump uphill. Hitting that maximum speed is easy for most pressing B repeatedly at an average rate will However, once all the obstacles are behind then the speed limit comes off and the minigame players, with victory belonging to whoever's furthest Knowing all of this, reserve your best button mashing for the very since it won't help you out much beforehand. Slot Car Derby "The first one to complete 4 laps in the Three courses exist, on the straightaways and wide curves on the you can go as fast as you want without spinning for every other section, your tires will start indicating you need to release your analog before speeding up again. Memorizing the sections of the course that along with getting a good handle on when to will have you racing ahead of the other players. Don't hold up until a split second before otherwise you'll get a bad start. If a player is overlapped by another player, that player will be rammed into, eliminating Sneak 'n' Snore "Sneak to the red button and out the door Hide in the barrel if he wakes." The more you push your analog stick, the faster you'll go, but the faster you the longer it'll take you to hide in your If the Chain Chomp wakes up while you're then you probably won't be able to hide If the Chain Chomp wakes up while you're then your chances are much better at not getting When the minigame starts, go as fast as possible. The moment you cross over into the fifth square, keep moving, but slow down a little. The Chain Chomp will either wake up the moment there's no way to know for sure, but if you're moving a little slower then You only need to step on about half the button any more than that is wasted time. The way back is more difficult since the Chain Chomp will likely wake up or even three times at random. It's not totally hopeless though. The Chain Chomp can't wake up the moment You can take advantage of this by going fast the moment he starts snoozing, no more than that though, don't get greedy. If all players are taken by the Chain Chomp, the minigame ends in a draw. Tile Driver GROUND POUND to flip the panels, and match up all of the pieces in the puzzle. The first to finish wins." Players have to match either a Goomba panels flip to Koopa Troopa panels. Koopa Troopa panels flip to Boo panels. And Boo panels flip to Goomba panels. There is NO reason to do a ground pound from that'll just waste time. Ground pound the moment you're airborne. This way, you'll flip your desired panel You don't need to be in the middle of a Moving to do so will waste time. Ground pounding even an inch of your desired just be careful about accidentally hitting And before you get any funny ideas, you can't If the time limit runs out without anyone the minigame ends in a draw. Tipsy Tourney "Tip the picture frame up and down, left to clear the panels and reveal the picture This title's version of this minigame is The only difference is that you're uncovering You should start with the border panels, moving to each corner once the shell starts Once all the border panels are near completion, move inwards to slide the shell towards the and make a small adjustments to uncover the If done correctly, you should complete the minigame when the most players clear it a few seconds below because their shell doesn't slide where get a good feel for it, and shoot for the Toad in the Box "Jump up to hit the spinning blocks. The first one to get 5 Toad faces wins!" Each time a player gets a Toad face; the spinning block gets a little faster. The floor below them also rises one level. If a player hits the spinning block and[gets they'll get stunned for a moment. The stun time varies depending on which face The Piranha Plant and Chain Chomp face will whereas the Bowser face will stun you for No matter how fast the block is spinning, Toad, Piranha Plant, Chain Chomp, Bowser. The minigame will always start on Toad's but it'll spin by too fast for you to hit Even a frame 1 input wouldn't cut it here, Just patiently wait for the Bowser face to You can easily do the same thing for the second Levels three and four are when you need some Try thinking the word "red" to yourself After you build up a rhythm of about two to then try jumping with that rhythm for toad, it'll normally work out that way. The fifth level throws timing out the window. Don't even bother! Jump immediately, and if you don't get Toad then wait a split second before jumping again so you don't get the same face you just Totem Pole Pound It's a race to see who'll be the first to pound the Totem Bros. into the ground. While short hop ground pounds are quicker, they'll end up losing you time because of This is why you should you aim for full hop they may be slower, but their strength more Your character has a resting animation after During this animation, you can't make them so you need to wait until the time is right. This can be tricky though. If you press A too early, then they won't If you press it too late, then you'll lose To solve this problem, I recommend the "zero, Each time your character pounds the Totem Zero, one, jump - and the moment you get do a full hop, ground pound, and repeat the "zero, one, jump" 1-vs-3 mini-games Archer-ival "Try to hit the moving targets with your Knock all three rivals down to win!" The Boo panel gives one coin, the Toad panel gives two coins, and the Baby Bowser panel gives three coins. If you're the solo player, then try to resist the coins you can get from I know it's tempting, but hitting them would which puts you at a greater risk for losing Often times, these AI controlled panels will making it easier for you to hit them. If you notice that someone's movement is whether it be from the AI panels or another Likewise, if no one is fully restricted, then target the player that has the least When it's a 1v1, your opponent will likely Keep your aim on their panel, but make it obvious that you're favoring This may scare them into moving the opposite which you can take advantage of by quickly The AI panels may help you out by moving towards eating up their space to move. They may even feel compelled to move towards to prevent all of their space being taken This is a good move for them to make, but you can capitalize on it by quickly aiming and favoring their escape route. Firing a short in this situation will likely so long as the AI panels don't suddenly If all else fails, then move left and right and make random shots. You have unlimited arrows after all. If you're one of the three players, then you're trying to dodge the solo player's You want to make sure you have enough room You can prevent AI panels from moving towards and hoping they decide to move the other way, just be careful that you don't stay there or else you'll end up getting knocked out. Cornering your own teammate is never a good Give them room to move around as well. If you're the one person at the end, then try to stay in the middle of an open he solo player must reload in-between shots, take that time to reposition yourself if you're The AI panels can cause some serious damage so if you see them approaching then stop them before returning to your open space. Bob-omb Barrage "The player floating in the tub must dodge A bob-omb only hit the solo player if it lands if one hits the edges, it bounces off. If any of the three players takes too long it'll detonate on the player, briefly stunning If you're the solo player, then stick around Most players have trouble flicking the bob-ombs They tend to either throw them way too far If you're playing with someone who does an average distance, then make sure you're not straight across You wanna give them an awkward angle to throw If you're one of the three players, then you need to learn how to throw the bob-omb Let's say you're about to throw one straight Start by pulling your analog stick in the The distance you throw your bob-omb is dependent the analog stick returns to neutral. If it gets there quickly, then you'll chuck If it gets there at a decent pace, then you'll chuck the bob-omb and average If it gets there slowly, then you'll chuck the bob-omb a few feet. As I said before, a lot of players have trouble chucking their Once you get used to its speed though, you'll Predict the solo player's movements as best Are they only hanging around the middle? Are they only moving on the far edges? Answering these kinds of questions will give to throw your bob-omb for the best shot. If your teammates are having trouble throwing then quickly let them know how to do it properly so your team has a better chance at winning. Bowl Over "Go bowling with a Koopa shell! You win if you knock down all your bowling You get to bowl with 2 shells." If the solo player knocks over a normal The first Mario Party's version of this whereas this title has three. Variation 1's lane veers right and then left. Variation 2's lane veers left and then right. Variation 3's lane veers left, makes a harsh The first two variations make it easy for but the angle they're coming from is much The third variation makes it harder for the but the angle they're coming from is less If you're the solo player, then don't let any of your shells fall off keep in mind that you only get two shots at Be discreet about which angle you're coming Try getting at least two players at once with If you only get one player, then it's highly likely that the remaining to make it virtually impossible for you to If you're thinking you can play it like normal bowling, and try to hit one pin into the other, keep in mind that the moment you hit a pin, it's hit box deactivates, so such a strategy wouldn't work here. This is why you've gotta throw your second to not let your opponents get the chance of If they manage to get into position and all then go for the normal pins for some coins. This is the only situation where I would recommend only targeting them. If you're one of the three players, then tell the other two to spread out; this'll reduce the possibility of the solo This'll also put them in a position where on who to target since everyone's so spread out instead of easily hitting everyone's pins at once. If two players on your team remain on the then immediately spread out to opposite ends Crane Game "It's the new and improved Crane Game! Drop all your stuffed rivals into the pipe This title's version of this minigame differs Here, the solo player must capture all three To make this task easier, time bonuses of +15, +20, and +30 were introduced. When the player drops one of them into the more time will be added to the game timer If you're the solo player, then grabbing Getting all of them at the beginning will leave you with 60 seconds to grab the which is double the amount of time you had How difficult something is to hold onto depends how fast you're mashing, how fast they're mashing and where you're holding onto them. The mashing one's obvious, so let's focus If you grab an object from the side, you'll notice that it'll wobble, A LOT. This isn't just aesthetics, it means you which'll lower your chances of holding onto Make sure that you grab every object, player This task can be made easier with the light Just line up your target within the middle You don't need to tap A at all when grabbing so don't waste your strength on them. When it's time to grab the three players, target the best button masher first. It'd be a shame if you tired yourself out What sucks thought is that the placements so the best button masher may have the best I believe in you though. If you're one of the three players and you're then mash as fast as possible the moment they Filet Relay "It's a 3-on-1 penguin race! Be the first to throw the fish to your friends If you waddle way too fast then you'll fall You're given a warning that you're about If you're the solo player, then you have a low chance of falling down Feel free to mash to your heart's content, but still keep an eye out for your character as unlikely as that may be. If you're one of the three players, then you have a higher chance of falling down Mash to move quickly, but pay close attention so you don't accidentally Regardless of what side you're on, try not whether it be an opponent, a wall, or a snow you'll either get pushed back, sidelined, On this first section, simply go through the If you're one of the three players, then use your speed to cut ahead the solo and force them to bump into you as you go If you're the solo player, then pay attention to your opponent so this Also keep in mind that you can still bump so avoid them as well. This second section is incredibly narrow, making it hard to get back ahead if you've You want your opponent behind you here, not All players have the greatest potential at because of its steep slopes. Keep your speed in mind and avoid the piles of snow that the snowmen they existed earlier but they have a higher Lights Out "You're the one in the dark. But hit your bulb-carrying rivals with the and it's lights out for them!" If you're the solo player, then you have two different kinds swings to The vertical swing and the horizontal swing. The vertical swing has less range, but emits a few stars when it hits the ground, which can help you figure out where you are This will show everyone else where you are so don't do it unless you're totally lost. The horizontal swing doesn't emit any stars and it has a wider attack range, which should make it your go-to swing for If you notice that a player's hugging the then move along the edges in darkness and Run for any player you want when the lights but when they turn back off, try targeting a different player instead. This has the potential to throw everyone off, since it looked like you were headed one direction, when instead, it was a bait. If you get close enough, then you can knock multiple players out at If you're one of the three players, then make your movements unpredictable. Hugging the edge the entire time will only for the solo player to bash you in. Run through the middle, go in circles, and flee whenever you see stars for the best Look Away "Look in the same direction as any bottom Get all 3 out in 5 turns!" Players have the option to look in one of Up, Down, Left, Right, and straight ahead. This last one is performed by not touching You can freely turn your head wherever you The music will stop once this blue light flashes, but you're still allowed to change your If you're the solo player, then take advantage of players that don't by choosing the direction they chose a split Even players who know what they're doing so pay close attention their movements. If an opponent is spinning their control stick then it's unlikely that they'll look straight More often than not, someone with that kind of energy won't just The most awkward direction for your left thumb making it less likely to be chosen by players If you notice any patterns, such as one player consistently choosing the then capitalize on it by moving your head and then choosing that option at the last If you're one of the three players, then make sure your teammates know that they half a second after the music stops and the If the solo player goes for the same direction then a third is unlikely since they'll now If you're worried about getting mind read, then flail your analog stick every which way Feel free to let go of your analog stick at if you so please. The tips I've given here have a lower chance You could try your hardest here and you may such is the nature for minigames like these. Move to the Music "Copy the moves of the dance master! If even one player is left standing, the dance master loses!" There are seven dance moves for the solo player Up, down, left, right, B, A, Z. The solo player has two chances to confuse If you're the solo player, then you're Remembering four to six inputs each round, no matter what they may be, won't be difficult While a bunch of arrows pointing every which there just isn't enough stress in the memorization This is why I recommend the Lose Your Friends It's quite simple! When you're making your opponents are probably remembering them To counter that, say a random input each time and while you're at it, say a bunch of random While I can't guarantee they'll like you I can guarantee that this technique will increase The minigame's rules say to "copy the but if the dance master ignores an input and then that player will be eliminated. Well that's strange, didn't they just Yeah, it sucks. When it comes to the solo player ignoring the proper response it to actually execute This exception to what the minigame tells so if you wanna take advantage of that, then If you're one of the three players, then Try to remember the entire dance, so you'll be ready to move when your turn Make sure your teammates know how to respond Quicksand Cache A coin minigame. "The player in the Bowser suit controls Try to pull down all of your Coin-collecting If you're the solo player, then move the three players away from bundles which are worth five coins a piece. If two players are going for the same coin then prioritize moving the player that's If they're both vertically lined up, but they're a little far away, then don't spin the sand at all to nab the If all players are on one side, then move them to the side opposite side of Keep track of how they're trying to get and make sure they're going as slow as possible They may try to go with the flow, which will ironically help them move a lot so have a game plan, but be unpredictable If one of the three players is doing well both on the board, and with the minigame star, then make sure they don't extend their lead If you're one of the three players, then If the solo player's moving you away from then try going with the flow to zip back around. You'll either catch the solo player by surprise or you'll be in a new area to grab more If you get sucked into the core, then you won't be able to get any more coins, but you'll keep the amount you collected. Be greedy, but not so greedy that you end Rainbow Run "Keep your eyes on your goal as you run Players in the clouds will try to knock you This minigame is identical in concept Tightrope Unlike Tightrope Treachery, the three players' clouds automatically Any cannonballs that hit the rainbow itself by shaking the screen violently, direct shots to the player are the ones that How the player falls over actually feels a Sometimes shots from the left will make the It's a little weird. There's also strong winds that the solo If you're the solo player, then you generally wanna stay in the middle You don't need to worry about the three since they don't have control over their However, since their movement is automated, they can focus more of their attention on It's possible to veer left and right to This can be a risky maneuver though, so you should only attempt this if you're If you get hit by a cannonball, then immediately make your way back to the Every time you get hit, you have invincibility so you'll almost always have a chance to It's quite possible for you to get hit immediately this is why it's crucial that returning If you're one of the three players then the same distance every time you shoot, so always keep in mind what angle you're If the solo player's doing well, then you could have one player on your team this'll give the solo player an awful time In the midst of their confusion, the other two players on your team could launch Shock Drop or Roll "Throw the lever to spin the power turbine. Stop your rivals in their tracks and roll If you're the solo player then be as unpredictable Make your opponents think you're about to just for you to turn it the other way. Do this while throwing in a bunch of other to throw your opponents off as much as possible. If you notice that a player's gotten confused, then take advantage of that confusion and make a hard commit to spinning towards Sadly, this minigame isn't really in the if any of the three players know this upcoming If you're one of the three players, then stay in the air as much as possible so nearly as much. Don't move and then jump since you'll if the solo player spins the turbine in the You instead want to jump and move in the air. Do this over and over again and aim to stay You might make the solo player cry though. 2-vs-2 minigames Balloon Burst This minigame used to be a 4-player minigame now you've got a teammate to rely on. Press the A and Z Buttons alternately to pump You can also use B instead of Z. Your pump will flash when it's full of air. You'll pump more air if the pump is full. You need to nail the sweet-spot where you're as fast as you can. To do this, you need to alternate your button at a speed of 308 beats per minute, which happens to be exactly two times faster than the song that plays during this minigame. Take advantage of this by entering your inputs on both the on and off beats of the song and you'll be well on your way to victory! The minigame should end with about 20-21 seconds if both players on the team knew the trick Mad props to the developers if it was intentional. The game ends when either a team pops their or the time runs out, in which case the minigame will end in a Draw Bobsled Run "It's a super-long Bobsled Run! Keep pressing the A button until you jump In this title's version there are less guardrails, so it's easier to fall off and into oblivion Whichever team mashes A faster at the beginning will get a head start over the other team, which is a fantastic advantage to have. When on the track, both players should hold they should steer by tilting their analog Only slow down a teensy bit when making harsh otherwise you should be holding up the entire There are three boost pads on the track. The first and third are on the main path, but the second one lies on an alternate path Sliding through even a couple pixels of a so don't waste time trying to line up with If you're ahead then get a grasp on the ideally by screen-peeking. Block them off whenever they attempt to slide if they end up successful and your team falls then look for an opening and try to sneak Running into walls isn't as much of a punishment but you don't wanna slide along them for you'll slow down soon enough. If a team falls off then the other team still needs to reach the goal in order to gain any If they fall off too, then the minigame will end in a draw. If the opposing team falls off, then the rest of the minigame for your team should be a leisurely slide down the track. Cake Factory "Demand for cakes is high! One player places cakes, the other strawberries! The most productive team wins!" Players grab and place their by pressing A and can hold their ingredient for longer if The only reason to hold onto your ingredient this is why the two of you should keep an so neither of you place your ingredient too If a player places two cakes on the plate or places a strawberry on the plate first, the team has to try again. If a player does not grab the ingredient from that player gets stunned for a short time. While every character gets stunned for the not every character's stunned animation Some characters make it obvious when they're whereas other characters aren't so obvious, Make sure you know the exact movement your when they're not stunned anymore so you When the timer's anywhere between 30 and then press A the moment an ingredient starts When the timer's anywhere between 13 and then press A the moment an ingredient lines If any tip's gonna help you win a lot more, Tons of players start missing their ingredients but if you and your teammate both know this Destruction Duet "Your job is to be the first demolition This minigame has three variations: Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3. The difference between the variations is the Type 1 has the smallest, a statue of Bowser Type 2 has medium, a statue of Bowser standing and Type 3 has the largest, a statue of Bowser The statues for Types 1, 2, and 3 have 30, 60, and 90 total health, respectively. Players have three attacks they can perform: Punches, Jump Kicks, and Ground Pounds. The damage of each attack can be described Punches deal 1 damage Jump Kicks deal 2 damage Ground Pounds deal 3 damage There are tons of ways you can go about this Both players punching, both players kicking, one player punching while the other one is one player getting on top of the statue and orrrrrrrrrrrrrr...one player going to the by punching, kicking, jumping, and ground while their partner punches, kicks, or ground Out of all the strategies your team can do, both of you jump kicking! Ground pounds, while they deal 3 damage a Punching, while incredibly fast, only deal Jump kicking on the other hand is nearly as with the added bonus that it deals 2 points You're doing yourself a disservice if you're It's actually busted. Dungeon Dash &quot;It's a dash through the dungeon! Teammates must tilt their analog sticks at Avoid enemies that block the path!&quot; This minigame is similar to Desert Dash from but with some more obstacles. Both players on a team need to push their The first player on a team to execute the will inevitably start a timer for the second As in, if the second player does not also then the team will get stunned for a quick and will have to try executing the same input If the second player does execute the correct then the team will progress by one step and the next input will be in the opposite Put simply, if your team plays the game perfectly, then your inputs should go right, left, right, If your team stumbles on the third input then right, left, right *stumble* right, left, Your team can actually input the correct direction before the dialog telling you to do so pops doing so repeatedly will make you go a bit but it's a little more risky too, so only Small fireballs can jump out of the lava and attempting to burn players to slow them down. Stopping for a quick moment should be enough The Thwomp floating in the air will slam onto and repeat the process. It'll take six seconds for it to rise up, and one second of stillness before slamming The amount of time players are stunned for is almost identical to if they mess up an In fact, getting crushed by the Thwomp will which is a much better alternative than waiting Summed up, pretend the Thwomp doesn't even Handcar Havoc "Handcars careen down the winding mine track! The first team to reach the end wins!" In the first Mario Party's version of this that isn't possible in this title's version, In a curve, the handcar has to be leaned to so that it will continue without losing speed. If you're taking a left turn then lean left, if you're taking a right turn then lean Both players on a team need to lean, if only one person is leaning the handcar then you'll start to lose speed. Don't treat this minigame as a short-burst treat it as an endurance button masher, so go at but not fast enough to tire yourself out. It's common for teams to be so focused on that they'll forget about leaning on curves and lose the speed they just build. Remember that leaning is just as important. Looney Lumberjacks "Teammates must cooperate to cut the raw The farther you push or pull the saw, the more efficient your cut is. You need to nail the sweet-spot where you're as fast as you can. To do this, you and your teammate need to press your respective buttons rhythmically You'll know you hit this rhythm if you're when the saw's gone as far as it can go. If done correctly, the game should end with A respectable time indeed! If it any point you both press the same button, then the saw won't budge. This can definitely throw off your rhythm. Just stay calm, and keep aiming for the wide cuts for your You only need to tap your button for the full holding it down isn't necessary and will put you at risk for hitting the same Magnet Carta, a coin minigame. "Using the magnets on the front of your try to grab the Coins and chest, and cart them over to your team's hole." Players can collect single coins, coin bags which are worth five coins, and a treasure chest which is worth ten coins. The better item you grab, the more your car will be slowed down. To get the treasure chest as quickly as possible, you and your teammate should collect two objects This will open up enough space for one of If you and your teammate don't coordinate then look around for a large enough opening remember, taking away a single object doesn't as close as it may seem. If your opponent gets the treasure chest and you really don't want them gaining ten then consider blocking them from collecting You don't wanna do this too often though, This kind of drastic action should only be both on the board, and with the minigame star. If you're ever feeling generous, then you can give coins to your opponents! Oh the philanthropy. Sky Pilots "The player steering the plane and the player flapping the wings must cooperate If you're steering the plane, then keep in mind that up is down, and down Left and right remain the same. You'll boost forward if you touch a rainbow, Rainbows come in pairs, which makes it possible to extend your boost However, you will lose control of your movements so you need to make sure you hit the first which launches you towards the second one. This angle will always be towards the left, so make sure you veer right first so you have Colliding with a cannonball will knock you They have pretty good aim, so change directions quickly to avoid them. Colliding with the face of a Bowser balloon its string, doesn't count. If you're flapping the wings of the plane then remember that you'll get the most speed Always lift the wings high before dropping Speed Hockey Knock the shell into your opponents' goal. The first team to score 3 goals wins! The player by the goal should stay around going too far on either side will leave the The player at midfield is less restrained and should make their best attempts at bouncing Regardless of your position, this minigame's Watch how the shell's bouncing off the walls It'll get faster the longer it's been When it gets to be too fast to react, play defensively! The chaos of its speed will determine the The first team to get three goals, or the team with more goals when the timer If the timer runs out and both teams have then the game ends in a draw. Toad Bandstand "It's dueling bandstands! Take turns playing The best performance wins!" This minigame's like Mario Bandstand from except that it's a 2-vs-2 minigame instead There's also no player as the conductor. An example is played first each time, so play in time as the cursor lines up with Each time a player misses a note, they'll get hit by an acorn from a tree which does nothing else but notify the player of their mistake. The team with the most accurate timing wins. The chances of drawing in this minigame are since the score is determined by timing, which is a lot less black and white than a This is why you've gotta make sure the cursor Torpedo Targets "The submarine pilot and torpedo launcher Every time a target is destroyed, another and the teams have to find it. If you're piloting the submarine, then keep in mind that up is down, and down but left and right remain the same. You don't need to be moving forward in order Search for the target as best you can. Keep an eye on not only your screen, but the other team's as well so you have Make sure your submarine is properly lined so your teammate has a better time at landing If you're the torpedo launcher, then keep in mind that you can steer torpedoes Up is down, down is up, but left and right Getting a handle on controlling your torpedoes especially because some targets like to move You can also stun the other team by launching but this isn't recommended since the stun It's more of a good side effect to a bad The team that destroys the most targets wins. If bother teams score the same amount of points, then the game ends in a draw. Battle minigames Bowser's Big Blast "Take turns pressing the plungers. If Bowser blows up on you, you're out. Last one standing wins!" Only one plunger out of a set can trigger I'm...I'm so sorry... I knew this minigame was coming up and I vowed some kind of way for you to increase your but alas... there isn't. But...does the order matter? We'll determine if that's the case by being the first to get blown up. The first player has a 1 out of 5, or a 20% The second player can only blow up first if so we will multiply the first player's chances with the second player's chances of blowing When that fraction is reduced, we get 1 out or a 20% chance of the second player blowing The third player can only blow up first if so we will multiply the first player's chances the second player's chances of living (3 and the third player's chances of blowing When that fraction is reduced, we get 1 out or a 20% chance of the third player blowing The fourth player can only blow up first if the second player, and the third player live, so we will multiply the first player's chances the second player's chances of living (3 the third player's chances of living (2 and the fourth player's chances of blowing When that fraction is reduced, we get 1 out or a 20% chance of the fourth player blowing The remaining 20% is the probability that in which case, the plungers reset and the Overall, every player has the same probability regardless of what position they're in. This is true for the beginning of the minigame Everything balances out perfectly. So your strategy...? Pick whatever plunger calls out to your heart Bumper Balloon Cars "Use your car's spiked front to bust opponents' Tilt your analog stick up to move forward Tilt it to the side to change direction. If you bump into someone's car while they're If you bump into someone's car while they're then you'll flip their car around, which is a great move to put your opponents You obviously don't want this happening so make sure you're on the move when other There's no point in knocking another player if you just get knocked out right afterwards, if you're gonna go for someone, make sure Target the opponent that would benefit the Crazy Cutters "Use your jackhammer to cut around the fossilized The cleanest Crazy Cutter wins!" This minigame's from the first Mario Party, except now it's Battle minigame instead The possible shapes players have to cut are The player who cuts the fossilized character depicted by their point value, wins. If you're moving and decide to take your then your character will keep moving in the so you can't stop in the middle of cutting, you have to keep going with what you got. Forgetting a detail like this may cause you that no matter how beautiful the rest of it you'll get 0 points, so don't screw around this mini-game is pretty strict. Pay close attention to the tip of your drill it'll give you great insight as to how well and if any adjustments need to be made mid-match. Drilling upwards is a bit a more difficult up the outline. This is why you wanna drill down on the more and leave the simpler side for when you drill Be extra gentle with your analog stick whenever these are the parts that people lose the most so mastering them will put you a step ahead. Day at the Races "The race is about to begin! Pick the character you think will reach the The order players pick their race in is directly 4th place picks first, 3rd place second, 2nd place picks third, and 1st place is stuck Now...ARE YOU READY FOR ME TO BLOW YOUR MIND? This person made a post to pastebin about They made a lot of comments about how some which was interesting, but where I found my attention pulled was "Each racer has three starting animations They then listed each type of racer along With this information, they ran tons of tests to see how every type and listed them according to how often they Looking at the data, it's clear that you should always pick the unless it's Thwomp, whose fast version statistically loses more than the slow versions of every other racer! The Thwomp is so bad in fact, that it got That's awful! If you want the best chance at winning, then make sure you can identify each type and make your selection from there. Face Lift "Fix that nose! Raise those cheeks! Tug and pull your face to match the example. The closest person wins!" This minigame's from the first Mario Party, except now it's Battle minigame instead There are three facial variants based on each totaling up to eighteen facial variants. The game will choose one of these facial variants The features players can manipulate depend For Mario, it's his nose, left ear, right left part of his mustache, right part of his For Luigi, it's his nose, left ear, right For Peach, it's her hair in the front, hair hair in the back right, hair on the bottom For Yoshi, it's his nose, left cheek, right For Wario, it's his nose, left ear, right left part of his mustache, right part of his For DK, it's his left ear, right ear, hair, left part of his nose, right part of his nose, The facial variations in this title are much Pulling the maximum distance for every feature When the minigame's about to start, focus on the face that's being changed and try to memorize how each feature gets so you can better copy it afterwards. The easiest way to copy the face in the middle is to compare the slopes of the features. For example, I'm trying to copy this ear, so I'll try to match the slope of it as Doing this along with making overall comparisons should put you ahead of your opponents. When you're done, feel free to move your cursor to the middle of the screen to prevent your opponents from seeing the face. This is really mean though and I just- I can't guarantee your friends are going to remain your friends afterwards. Grab Bag "It's a Mushroom Grab Bag! Grab opponents' bags and pull mushrooms by pressing the B Button repeatedly!" Someone's bag has a Gold Mushroom in it What's weird is that you don't see a gold the minigame starts; it appears that everyone receives five regular That's the trick though! In reality, one of the four players did receive the game's just hiding who got it. This means that a player's already winning by the time the minigame starts and they don't Always assume you didn't get the gold mushroom and try to take as many other mushrooms as If you see someone get a hold of the gold then target that player, even if they got a couple mushrooms after There's a good chance it'll be within If you get your hands on the gold mushroom and know you have some other mushrooms in then jump away from the other players so they Punching's a great option to get people If a player manages to grab you, then mash If you get jumped on, then you can still steal from other players You can tell how many mushrooms a player has by the size of their bag. If it's huge, then they have a lot of mushrooms, if it's completely shriveled up then they The size of the bag does not indicate if a Hot Bob-omb "Don't let the Bob-omb blow up in your The last one standing is the winner." This minigame's from the first Mario Party, except now it's Battle minigame instead This title's version has just as much RNG except now the bomb doesn't consistently Sometimes it'll flash bright red, which is definitely an indicator you should and sometimes it'll only turn a little red, making you think everything's alright until The average time it takes for it to explode Not catching the bob-omb when it's thrown If it's going to explode two seconds from then it'll still explode two seconds from The only downside to missing the catch is Remember that this is a battle minigame, so there's more at stake. Keep throwing the bob-omb to the player that's Even better if you can convince the other Rakin' 'em In "Many Mushrooms sit atop the spinning stump. Use your crane to rake in as many as you can!" A regular mushroom has one point, a Gold Mushroom has three points, and a purple mushroom takes away three points." Every player has a timing zone, which differs depending on their position. If you press the A button when your target's then you're bound to get it. Make sure you're focusing on gold mushrooms and avoiding purple mushrooms. Duel minigames Saber Swipes Played on Pirate Land. "This is a fencing duel! Press the A, B, and Z Buttons in the order The first player to press them in order is If you mistake the order, you must start over. Swipe surely but swiftly!&quot; Focus your eyes on where the prompt will show The moment you see the order of buttons, don't hesitate and press them as quickly If both players finish their button combination the game will end with a draw and the match Quick Draw Corks Played on Western Land &quot;This is a popgun duel! Goomba will count down. Press the A Button as soon as Goomba says The fastest draw will be declared the winner.&quot; This minigame goes fast; Goomba will more often than not, say "GO!" If you draw before Goomba says go, If you draw before Goomba says go after that, then you lose the minigame. This warning should absolutely be taken advantage Try taking your shot a split second after If you get lucky, then the Goomba will have or right as you made your input. If you get unlucky and he didn't say "GO", then you'll be let off with a warning, at play nice and react when the time comes. If you and your opponent somehow draw on the then the winner's determined by port priority. Time Bomb Played on Space Land &quot;This is a time bomb duel! Wait just as long as Goomba tells you, then press the A Button. No timer is displayed, so you'll have to guess. Whoever is furthest from the actual time, regardless of whether they went over or under, must watch his or her bomb explode!&quot; Start counting down the moment all text leaves You won't be able to react instantly though, so you should account for the delay by pressing If both times are the same distance to what or if no one acts within 30 seconds, no bomb explodes and a draw is declared. Psychic Safari Played on Mystery Land &quot;Press the A Button and B Button Buttons alternately to psychically power up the ancient relic. Whoever powers up his or her relic the most It's not about how fast you press a single it's about how fast you can alternate between Remember that, and power the relic up as much Mushroom Brew Played on Horror Land. &quot;Stew the best mushroom brew by putting the There are 3 types of mushrooms. Add them in the order Goomba tells you, and Press the A Button for blue, the B Button and the Z Button for gray mushrooms.&quot; You don't need to memorize which button since the prompt is kind enough to show you The player with the most mushrooms in their It doesn't matter if you're a little late as long as you actually made the input while If both players have the same number of mushrooms a draw is declared, thus forcing the game Rock, Paper, Mario Played on Bowser Land. &quot;Mario beats Bowser. Peach beats Mario. Bowser Just like in rock, paper, scissors, the strongest The A Button is Mario, the B Button, Peach, If you're sitting close enough to your opponent, then listen to the sound their controller after all, different buttons make different For example, the Z button on the N64 controller when compared to the A and B buttons. So if you hear the Z button pressed, then that means they selected Bowser, so you should respond with Mario by pressing Hearing your opponent's input is unlikely since Mario Party is rarely a quiet game. You may be able to predict what your opponent Are they the kind of person that'll choose Are they a bit of a jokester and would think while they're playing Mario would be funny? There's a lot of different ways you could but at the end of the day, you don't have If both players choose the same character, they'll tie, forcing the game to restart. Item minigames Roll Out the Barrels Played on Pirate Land. "They're rolling out the barrels! Keep your eyes on the barrel containing If you pick the one with Baby Bowser inside, You'll also miss if you don't make a choice When the barrels are laying down, they will When they're upright, they can switch between Once the barrels stop, please make your selection via ground pounding. It's a lot cooler than simply punching the Give Me a Brake! Played on Western land. "Pull the brake to stop the circling locomotive and get the item that stops in front of you." There's two ways to time your pull to get The first is to count two spaces ahead of and pull the lever when that item's in front The second is to pull the lever on the top left corner. Choose whichever method your most comfortable Hammer Slammer Played on Space Land. "Use the might of the hammer to launch the Here's the angle the hammer needs to be the first item... the second item... the third item... the fourth item... and the fifth item. You start entering some weird territory if you go beyond the fifth item. Most of the time you'll end up getting bounced but there's a chance you'll instead get or even the second item. These occurrences are rare though and shouldn't Simply drop your hammer once it's at the Mallet-Go-Round Played on Mystery Land. "Blocks spin around and sound! Use the hammer to hit 2 blocks and knock an Each time you hit a block, the remaining ones spin faster and faster. What this explanation fails to mention, is that the remaining blocks will spin the The moment you press A, you'll hit the block in front of you. If you hit the block of the item you want, If you keep hitting the wrong blocks, then settle for a different item. This minigame's tight on time and you don't That may happen anyways if you end up hitting which there's only one of compared to the so be careful about him. Coffin Congestion Played on Horror Land. "The coffins open and close, revealing the Open one, if you dare!" Pay close attention to where the Item you Don't open Baby Bowser's coffin! If you do, then you leave with nothing. The same thing will happen if you don't Stare at the middle of the screen and keep track of where your desired item The only shuffle that actually matters is which will always be the fifth shuffle done. If you have trouble distinguishing between and Golden Mushroom, then target items that look more unique. Bowser Slots Played on Bowser Land. "It takes well-timed jumps to line up 3 Match them up to win!" All roulettes will remain at the same speed One of the items will show up two times in If you make this item your target, then you'll find that it's incredibly Just memorize one item that spins before it, and then jump with proper timing. Rinse and repeat for the other two roulettes If you really don't want the item that's then focus on memorizing two items before and then jump with proper timing. Rinse and repeat for the other two roulettes I only recommend doing this if the item that's really wouldn't be of much help to you. If you don't hit the block after 30 seconds, then the roulette will stop for you. You'll leave the minigame with nothing if So long as you keep my tips in mind, you got this. Mario Party 2 really is something special. It introduced items, battle minigames, and It influenced Mario Party 6's main gimmick It also influenced Mario Party 7's main "every five turns" event. All of that, while being one of the most charming from the outfits that the characters wear to the silly stories that players unfold as While I do wish players could hold more than that's not nearly enough to detract from This title was a solid next-step in the series, and I'm glad that it's been able to retain Thanks for watching! See you next time when we cover