Oh, Miss Orange, Xiao Zhao, give me a cup of coffee. I want it to be strong, without sugar. I 'll be here soon. Is there anything wrong ? Do you know that sometimes the eyes are going to cause trouble ? When he sees something he shouldn't see, what he shouldn't see. This lady is our eldest woman. You are not the one you should admire. I thought this was a free country. You can watch what you want. Hahaha. It seems you have misunderstood. You have one foot in the grave. Waiter. Check out. Come on, sir, please put it away . You need to renovate. Come here. You just said that I have one foot in the grave. Yes , how about it? I found a bruise on your forehead. I have some medicine. Heal your bruises. What are you talking about ? There are no bruises now but there will be soon . Hey, what are you going to do? I said this is a free country. You can see what you want. Do you agree with what I say? Agree . This will need to be renovated for about half a month. It seems that I did not understand it wrong. The little demon changed the chips for me into Yang Jian. Young Master is leaving for free, boss . Haha, this little brother is so lucky. The boss here, Jiutou, wants to talk to Xiao Yao. Brother, let's play some more . It's getting late. I'm going back. Next time, I'll play with my elder brother to get some quick chips. This little brother must be out to mess around with the world. To tell you the truth , no one has ever caught a straight flush in this factory. What do you mean? Please show it . This deck of cards has one missing card for every suit above 10. It is impossible to get a straight flush. The biggest thing is how can it be possible to get a straight flush? It must be cheating. What does this mean? Do you think you are cheating? The playing cards opened in front of the guests are not new, they have been manipulated. When we buy playing cards in our casino , we require that there be one missing card of each suit. What do you have to say this time? It's a big deal. I don't want it anymore, huh, let's put it up , you all have seen it, right ? That's how his flush came. Big brother , please forgive me. I won't dare next time. Now I think of begging for mercy. It's too late . Boss, I don't remember the villain's fault . Forgive me, brothers, it's all him. He asked me to come. This little Jin Emperor is a thief. He has long thought of you coming to make money. I agreed to him right then. Oh , who asked you to come ? Well , I came here myself. Bitch, let me ask you again who asked you to come. I really came here myself. I know that the owner of the dance hall, Ma Zhiqiang, sent you here, right ? You know, boss, if I tell the truth, can you let me go? If you tell me, To be honest , spare your life. He is Ma Juncheng's mistress. Ma Juncheng asked him to come. He also said that he would give him 300 yuan after a good deed. That's great. Listen to me. If you don't do such dirty things again, I'll kill you. I've lost your skin , don't, don't, don't, don't , I don't know how big or small you are , and you don't know Ma Zhicheng . Just now, that was my master , he asked me to come. Hahahaha, you stinky bitch is about to die. I know you are afraid of these words. Why did you just say that? If you don't say it, prepare to die . Hahaha. I'm sorry for scaring you. Let's keep playing . Let's go. Help, help, help. Is this brother talking to me? Let him go . What did you say? I told you to let go. Open her brother , you came to the casino to have fun, not to cause trouble. Hey, so I advise you to mind your own business and have fun. What if I tell you that I am here to cause trouble ? Then don't blame me for being rude. You're welcome. That's a bit harsh . How about this? Since you run a casino, do you dare to gamble with me? It 's just you . I'm not worthy of it. In this case, I will tell everyone about your crappy casino. Have you heard of the saying that nine out of ten gamblers cheat ? Those who run casinos cannot make big money without cheating. Did you see this card? There is a mark on the back of each card. Remember, this is Caohua Wine. This is Caohua Wine. This is marked. This is Hongtaogou . This is Hongtao Temple. It's really the Temple of Hearts . Yeah, let me pick. Can you? Can you say it right? Look at that fat man. Look at that fat man. Everyone has seen it . They have seen it. They have seen it . What is this one ? Can you tell me how it is? I can't tell you. Hahahahaha , this card is the 5 of hearts. These casino operators are so evil. They don't even have a mount. This is a casino with a dark heart. When is this my card? Just now, you said that others did it themselves. Tell me, you fucking want to die. Which of the gambling equipment in this casino has not been tampered with? You can't answer it. Do you believe it? He will make as many buns as you want . You know why. I can get whatever I want. Stop him, brothers, fuck me. You think you are powerful, boss, boss, don't hit me again, don't hit me again, boss , now I think of begging for mercy, don't you want my life? Just stand here without me. You have a chance, but you But he said that I won't cooperate with you. Let 's see what your morals look like. You look like a giant panda, don't you? Boss, boss, I beg you , I beg you, please let me go. What did you say to let me let you go? Don't beat me, boss . Why should I let you go , boss ? As long as you let me go, I can do whatever I want . Oh, that kid just hit me hard and now I'm scared. Killing these people is just bullying the weak and afraid of the strong , isn't it ? Everyone , this brother and I need to talk about some business today. Let's stop here tomorrow. Everyone, come early. Hey, let's come back first and let's meet each other. Little Koi, go and close the door. Let's have a cigarette and go up. The three old and four young people are sitting in the hall. The disciples are offering incense and crouching to welcome the founder Pan Qianweng. The second furnace of cigarettes is held in the air. The three old and four young people are welcoming Master Xi Yingying. The disciples are sitting on top. Set the number five or six on the star . What is the boss's ranking? The word &quot;connection&quot; above the head and the word &quot; jue&quot; on the top of the head and the word &quot;wu&quot; in the arms. You are the senior brother of the Wu generation. What is your master's surname? Zi Fu Ming's master, he is an old man. He is a man with the upper gold and the lower nine spirits. What's your eldest brother's last name? My surname is Yan at home, and my surname is Pan Wu when I go out. Big brother, I would like to ask my juniors to pay my respects. What 's your ranking? My little brother has the word &quot;jue&quot; on his head, ten thousand words on his feet, and the word &quot;qing&quot; in his arms. Oh, it turns out you are the generation &quot;qing &quot;. Who is your old man? Ren Xiaoyao Ren Xiaoyao has never heard of it. That's right. He is also your junior. Just now, what did you say about Ma Zhicheng from the Little Metropolis Dance Hall ? Ma Zhicheng, like me, is a junior. I don't know when he caught up with his big backer, who was right in front. Not far away , a small metropolitan song and dance hall opened in Building 70. From then on, the arrogant Ma not only went in and out by himself, took a car and followed the bodyguards , but also his mistress, the dancer Taipan Orange , followed the bodyguards. I don't know who his backer was. Oh, please continue talking . A few days ago, he sent people to take over my casino, but Xiaoli refused. Since then, he has often sent some guards to kick the place. In Zaza country, his powerful younger brother surnamed Ma cannot be offended. Therefore, we can only add more manpower and take strict precautions. You have all seen it today . It's this little Jin brother. Tell me, who asked you to come here to invade the big country? If you still hide it for him, then don't blame me for not helping. Hey , I said, I said that the man just now is my master Zeng Asi. He took 50 yuan from Ma Zhicheng and took me here to play in the big country. Hey, cocoa, the man just now said you asked him to come. You were fooled. Zeng Asi is Xiao Jingdi's master. He is the leader of the trend . That bastard Ma Zhicheng bullied you, so you are going to endure it. The situation now is not like the Communist Party in the past where they banned gambling . They closed down several big casinos after they entered the city. What do you think of us? The small factory is also in jeopardy. Who dares to cause trouble? Besides, he has a great family and a great business. We can't fight him again and again. What else should we do? I have long heard that this bastard is unjust and often attacks our Qinggang brothers. This time I came from the south. I escaped from the city jail just to meet this bastard. Hey, brother , brothers , come on. He is the one mentioned in the newspaper yesterday who injured two Jade Lords and robbed the jeep. Yes, it's true. No wonder someone who is so powerful managed to break out of the prison with bare hands. The newspaper said that the eldest brother in that room is called Yan Shuangying. Yes, yes, that's right. I am Yan Shuangying. Oh , big brother , big brother and little brother. They have blind eyes and don't know how good they are. With the big boss in front of us, how can we come up with any good guys? Yes, it's thanks to you that you taught me a lesson. Hey, I'll close this casino. Hey, we'll be beaten again from today on . I beg you to be the old man. From now on, we'll follow. I 'm with you. Brother, I'm with you. You all have masters. How can you enter the threshold again ? To be honest, my master is gone a long time ago. We also want to worship a good old man as soon as possible. From now on, we won't be bullied by others, right? Is that right? You do n't have to be nine-headed to worship the old man. From now on , we are brothers. It's up to you to take care of this casino. Since you want to follow me , you have to listen to me. Hey, big brother, big brother, big brother, I'll give it to you. You introduced these brothers to me . His name is Brother Qi Biao . You are really good. When will you teach me ? Hahaha. Thank you. Brother, tell me yourself. Brother, my name is Brother Guishouqiao . My name is Brother Tuaming. My name is Brother Hudun. My name is Mao Wujiu . My name is Brother Mao. My name is A Liang. My name is A Fa. Thank you , brothers. Please respect me. Brother, I fought my way out of the prison and escaped just to come back and become a vegetarian. If anyone dares to mess with me, I will kill him. It looks good. Ma Zhicheng wants our casino and I also like his dance hall. From today on, our No. 9 casino in the dozens of alleys on Nanjiang West Road will have to make a name for itself among the Green Gang brothers and gangsters from all over the world. When we see us, we have to walk sideways, okay, okay, okay, we have finally made it to the top, let's fight with our big brother, okay, okay, okay , brothers, I will cut off Zeng Asi's ears and slap Ma Zhicheng's face. He will never do it. We will let it go , so we have to be prepared. In the first game, we will attack this bastard Ma Zhicheng. You can see for yourself what is going on . Boss , someone was staring at Orange Girl in the cafe opposite this afternoon . I went to teach him a lesson for not thinking about this. This guy is a tough guy. He beat us both flying as soon as he made a move. He also rode his bicycle and ran over my legs. Boss, you have to make the decision for us. Yes, boss, his grandma, where did the little gangster dare to be in the tiger's head? I'm not treating you like a tiger . I'm treating you like a soft persimmon to slap your master in the face. Brother Wu Si immediately sent a few brothers to find out who this person is . I'll go and do it right away. Go away , don't be angry . Find that bastard by yourself. I 'll cut him into pieces and let you vent your anger. Isn't it because you don't feel responsible? You have such a big name and power as Mr. Ma , but there are people who don't even buy your account. Isn't that counter-intuitive? Damn it, maybe he doesn't know that you are my girlfriend. If he finds out, he will be scared to death and he won't dare. Do you feel hurt ? Of course I will. Then you promise me that I must find this bastard and teach him a lesson. Don't worry, I 'll take care of it. What's going on with me ? The senior is in a panic. I'm sorry, big brother . What happened again? Zi Ah Si came back and asked the Jiutou gang to cut off his ears. Who asked him to come in and cut off the boss outside the door ? What's going on? Xiao Jindi and I were ordered by you to go to the No. 9 Casino to play in Daguo. Unexpectedly, Jiu Tou was a master and he found out. I asked you to pass it to him. Did you say it? Did you say it? Oh, did you say it ? People don't buy it and say you, Boss Ma, are nothing. You are just a leftover from the Youth Gang. If you dare to cause trouble for him, he will call him whatever he wants. If you don't dare to say anything, he will peel off your skin and cramp your tendons . Hahaha, I'm happy for you. Do you know who he is? I only know his name is Orange . He is a popular little slut and a famous stinky bitch. Do you like him? How about I give this stinky bitch to you? You are so generous. It's you. The bodyguard who injured me, who are you? I am Ma Zhicheng. I taught two idiots a lesson for you. I thought you would be grateful to me. Who are you? Tell me your name. My name is Yan Shuangying . Yan Shuangying has never heard of me. I thought it was some big brother who came to kick my horse. It turned out that two unknown rats came. Hahaha, I came to see you yesterday and you were not here. So I came to see you again today. There is an important thing for me to know . I'd rather hear what important news the two unknown rats brought me . Hahaha, I've set my sights on this song and dance hall. I'll give you three days and leave here with your men in three days . Brother, please say it again. I didn't hear what I said clearly. Make it very clear that you have heard it for three days. You only have three days . If I see you here again in three days, don't blame me for being rude and leave. Hahahaha. What I said is ridiculous. Boy , are you fucking lost ? Are you going crazy ? Hahaha, he said that he has set his sights on this mansion and this place. Let me get out of here. Hahaha. This guy must be a comedy actor to make our elder brother happy. Hahaha. Have you laughed enough? Remember you for 3 days. You only have 3 days to stand still , boy , listen to me. I don't care which temple you are a kid in or which village you are a god in. If you want my weapon, okay, my boss, Ma, is right here. You can come and get it anytime. It's up to you. Do you have this method? Let me say it again. You only have three days. I should leave . No, you can't leave . I won't let the gangster who slapped me in the face run to the street and talk nonsense to embarrass me. Of course, I won't let anyone who wants to go. I heard that before you came to this world , I once said that I would cut off your flesh piece by piece. Did you say that? Answer my words and I will tell you that no matter what you want to do , wait for the next life. Hahahaha . Why let your people understand? That's the truth. Ma Zhicheng doesn't seem to be a smart man. You don't think it's smart to walk in here with bare hands and say he wants to rob my dance hall . Hahaha, you really won't shed tears until you see the coffin . I really don't know if you really have a master or you don't know. What's the difference between death ? There is no difference between the two . You are already a dead person anyway. Hahahaha. Are you sure? What do you think? Don't touch our old man. Uncle, come to me . Oh , you are so generous. Who are you? OK, can you change your name? Can't you sit down? If you change your surname to Jiutou, you will be Jiutou from Casino No. 9. It's a good time to come. Tonight is the Chinese New Year and we are doing two things together. It seems that you made the wrong calculation. Not only did you not get the dance hall, but your own casino is about to be owned by someone else, haha. Ye Shuangye, this is probably the last time you hear your name. Where did we just talk? You said I was dead, right? Of course you can't see it? I can't see this. Don't get excited. Don't get excited. We have something to talk about now. You still think I'm a deadbeat. Put down the gun. Put down the quail needle. Let's talk about it, okay? Let's talk about anything. I've said everything that needs to be said. Do n't get excited. Don't get excited. We won't survive when the bomb explodes. I'm not afraid of you. You 're scared, aren't you? He's very dangerous. Come on, get up. You only have 3 days. Because you look like a bear. You 're a third-rate guy , but you like to act like a boss. Wear a suit and smoke a thick cigar. You still wear it at night. Are you afraid of missing your sunglasses and falling to your death on the steps? Boss, I'm not afraid of burning my mouth if I scream. With your moral character, you're worthy of being the boss. Even my grandson thinks you 're stupid. I should fucking crush you with a gun. Don't break your head. Senior brother, don't do things improperly . Don't get excited. We have something to discuss. Look at your coward. Do n't worry, I won't kill you today. But just remember it for three days . If you don't get out within three days, I will let you see yourself. Let's go and fight with their brains again. They should pee their pants again . Boss, where did this guy get out and be so powerful? You losers , jump down and get down . What's the use of you ? What's the use of you? Trash, don't you say that others are the same, don't you yourself ? Who are you talking about? Say it again, someone powerful has just gone out. Do you have the ability to yell at him? Why are you shouting at a woman like me ? Take back what you just said. I will shoot you to death, you bitch . A man has a gun to his head and doesn't dare to move. Because I am your head, he found a crack in the ground and got in. Ah , ah, you'd better kill me to call him a man. Don't be like a woman. Don't get so angry that you can't do this. Are you telling me if it's dad? I'm going to kill him. I must kill him. Big brother , big brother, come on, come on , take a look. What's going on? What's going on? What's going on? Are these two people who are helping me, his grandma, alive? The man surnamed Yan who was strangled to death with a rope was so cruel. How did they put the body here? Brother, it seems that the man surnamed Ye was not easy to deal with. He moved the body out, covered Qin Ye with a sack, and transported it to the suburbs for burning. It's better to report it to Mr. Du. It's not that time yet. I said you invested in a small casino , how dare you confront me. It turns out that you are looking for a hard idea to be your backer. Hum, the monk is not afraid of his face. Now that he knows their doghouse , he is the king of heaven and I have descended to earth. I'm going to kill them . Brother , what do you want to do? Starting tonight, the two brothers will be divided into groups to guard Wu Ding's front door, back door , and the roof. Two brothers with good marksmanship and quick reactions will be sent to ambush at Casino No. 9. Whenever you see someone with the surname Jiu Tou in front of the door , kill him immediately as soon as he comes out . His eldest brother, Zeng Asi, is familiar with the situation around Casino No. 9. Why not send him with the gunman ? That's it. Gamblers are keeping an eye on Qian as he comes and goes. Don't miss it. Just light up a cigarette when you come. Identify and talk about money. Understand that it's his elder brother who is really ambushing you. This bastard told you that Zhao Jinhua must not make mistakes in his actions. Don't worry. What's the matter? It 's already midnight. I don't think he will come. Oh , what do you mean? Let 's evacuate in this cold weather . Why should we suffer the cold here? Who dares to evacuate if the things the boss told us to do are not done well? Oh, you are so stubborn, can't you just come back tomorrow morning? Zheng Asi, don't stay in the street. The mishandling of the slippery thing has pissed off our Boss Ma. Do you know how he will deal with you ? But when will this wait? When he comes, my words will be clear enough. Oh, Qiu Long must know the secret and hide it. Set it on fire immediately. The cigarette was thrown to the ground by Zeng Ah Si. What's going on? This is a good explanation . Who are you to shoot him ? This bird killed him . When the bullets of Polanin's pistol were exhausted, the magazine did not fall off and the barrel did not jump. Otherwise, I would count how many shots I fired and how many bullets I still have. Otherwise, it would be very bad. Just like you are now, who are you and what do you want? This is exactly what I want to ask you. The problem is that Ma Zhicheng, Boss Ma's subordinates are also fooling around looking at their brother's clothes. You should know that in Binhai City, no matter who hears our name Ma Ye , they have to show some face. No matter you say that we are here for the Jiutou of the casino. If you had said this before you shot me, I would have believed it. But now the situation has changed. I have a habit of killing the person who shoots at me, even if his gun has no bullets. Hey, you said that. Yes, there are indeed no bullets in our guns , but so what. You can still kill both of us. First of all, I want to correct that I am not alone . Why didn't I see anyone else? The 9 heads you just mentioned are pretty good. Him? Secondly, I told you that I can kill you at any time . We have an agreement. You and I will fight one on one. If you can't kill me, let us go. You said it wrong. Kill you two. OK. You can. Do you make the decision? Of course you are the eldest brother, everything is decided by the eldest brother. Let's see. Are you ready? Let's each remove the barrel and magazine of the gun. I shouted 123. It's that simple to load the gun and shoot. 1 2 They thought they still had a chance . This stupid self-confidence is very similar to Ma Zhicheng . How did you do it? The back pharyngeal wall in the mouth is connected to the back of the brain by only one layer of skull and skin. Like the throat, it is the weakest part of the human body . For Bailey with a power of 50 joules For the Ta-92 improved pistol, it is easy to pass through the rock wall behind the person in front and hit the person behind you . There is nothing to make a fuss about. If I tell others , they will definitely say that I am bragging, so don't tell others such a thing. It will be safer if people know it. I have a good friend who is incompetent because he talks too much . Let the brothers clean up the scene . Hey, why are you standing there stupidly? Come over quickly. Hey, brother, I have seen good marksmanship , but I have never seen him. A sharpshooter like you is really amazing. Yes, brother, your shooting skills are really good. Even if you are scared, you will never hit the bridge of the nose. Okay, okay, stop making noise. I told you to get everything ready. Get ready, everyone. Start cleaning up the scene. There's still something good to do tonight. Go, go . Brother , I still don't understand how you knew that Ma Zhicheng's gunman was ambushing in front of the casino to commit suicide. Our professional secrets . Brother, you are really a bit crazy. Don't look at me. I have been following you for half a year , but I still feel that all the tricks I learned before are like children's tricks and they are useless in front of you. Hey, as time goes by, you will naturally understand that there is no secret. Anyone can do it, and I can do it, of course. As long as you can stay calm at the critical moment , I will explain it to you later. Remember everything I told you. Remember, don't worry. Brother, I've brought the things I asked you to fetch. Look at my brain . Guiguishou, look , bring brother's things over here. Brother, you are just a weird thing. This is a sniper rifle specially used for long-distance shooting. It's a crazy world . Why are there glasses on this rifle ? Yes, these are not glasses . What is a gun sight for aiming ? Is everyone ready ? Are you ready? Act according to the plan and take action. How is the situation with the fourth child? These cowards can't sleep well. The people inside just run out. I can't see . What's going on? What's going on? Fourth brother, who did it ? Is it Belief Island and He Jiuzhu? Who else could be there besides them ? But how would they know that we ambushed a gunman here ? We can't keep you here for a long time. But it's weird to leave in the middle of the night. Zhen Xiang waited for the procession to pass. We left him and started shooting. Ah ah ah you are. The brothers rushed into the casino and killed them all. What's going on? Brother , I saw the new wife and Jiutou with my own eyes. I walked into the casino and never came out again. I don't believe they could fly into the sky and follow me. I don't know what happened . The police are enemies. I heard that the owner of the casino is a gang member . No wonder he is still so shocking. Aren't you afraid that the police force will come to arrest you? These people are all desperadoes. He is me. Who are they afraid of? How is Big Brother? Big Brother, how are you doing ? I've searched them all and no one is really fucking evil. Didn't you say that they are all flying into the sky ? Are they all in the casino ? Yes, brother. I saw Yan and Jiutou walking into the casino with my own eyes . I didn't see them go out. Is there a back door in the casino? I searched it and there was only one main door . Humph, these cowards must know that they are in trouble. They all ran away. Isn't that person named Yan ruthless? Didn't he want to rob my dance hall and hide from my woman? She also knows how powerful she is. Brother , she was just bluffing. When she saw us, she really scared us away. Haha , Orange should understand what she likes now. The pretty boy is a coward who only knows how to talk and brag. Hahaha, who among all the men in the world can compare to you, Brother Ma? Yes, hahaha Brother, although we have lost a few brothers this time, we have put the hard drive of Casino No. 9 I got it . From today on, this casino belongs to you, Boss Ma. Hahaha, I shouldn't say that the entire Nanjiang West Road belongs to you, Boss Ma . Hahaha, it's a pity that the bastard named Ye ran away. If he fails, In my hands, I peeled off his skin and whipped his tendons . Brother, no matter how brave he is , he wouldn't dare to leave it to die. Hahaha. Brother, brother, I found a small door at the west end of the casino and it was locked. Oh, brothers, I don't dare to open the door without you. Look, go ahead and open the door for me. Yes, ah , no, something happened outside. Brothers, come with me. I beg you. I want you to buy a gun . Brother, the stinky devils have exploded. How about it? Is everything done? Follow your instructions and stay for two days. Come with me. Brothers and sisters , please be careful not to touch anything. The second sister-in-law is out. Brother, it seems that the enemy has already figured it out. We have to come and place the bomb in advance. Brother, all the brothers outside. If he dies and settles the accounts with him , what should I do now, brother? Don't stay in this place of right and wrong for long. The Communist Party's security force is coming. We're leaving immediately . Brothers, get in the car . Get in the car. Come on , brother. The Communist Party is here. Come on. Brothers, madam, brother, go on, go on, go on , brother. Go quickly , go quickly. He is coming back soon. Where are you going ? Leave here. If you want, I can go with you. He will never give up without killing you. Staying here will only lead to death. Listen to me and leave quickly. Gentleman Revenge Ten. It's not too late to keep the green hills, so I'm not afraid of running out of firewood. That 's so right. That's so good. What do you want? I really want you to be so devoted to him. In this case, I will make it happen. Don't shoot. You can't kill. Kill him, I beg you, don't shoot. You bitch is about to die. You are still caring about others. Wake up. You are next . What else can you do now? Kill dozens of my brothers. I don't know where to go. I came to find you and you came here to die. You did it for this bitch ? There is a way to heaven. If you don't go to hell, there is no way. You confessed. You didn't expect me to live. You didn't expect that I would appear in front of you, right? I want to do it in front of this bitch. You beat him into a sieve and then chopped him alive. You are the stupidest, most ridiculous, and conceited person I have ever seen . Okay, then let me, a third-rate guy, send you to the West. Brothers, beat me up. Hahaha, I'm relying on the casino. Don't you think it's strange that you didn't find it ? You stupid bastard, I blew up your gang of idiots just to tell you , but don't come back to the dance hall to die , but you didn't understand and said I came to die, right? Well one two, you idiot , you know Why did I come here today ? You still don't understand. 3 days, I give you 3 days. Today is two or three days. I said that if I see you here again in three days, don't blame me for being rude. Did I say that? Answer, I said it, but you don't believe it. You don't believe it. You think I'm scaring you, don't you? Do n't, don't, don't kill me. Don't kill me. What should I say so that you will believe it? Please don't kill me. If you don't cry until you see the coffin, I must let you see the coffin. Don't shoot. Please don't shoot. I'll give you everything . Dance hall woman, take it all. You are so generous. If you had used your generosity 3 days ago, maybe we would have become good friends . But now it's too late. I promised you that I would. Is it okay for people to see their own brains ? Please don't shoot, Kikuko. Kikuko , please save me. Please save me for the sake of my past. Can you please let him go for my sake? Is it necessary? He once Be good to me and remember my words. Even if you save his life, he won't be grateful to you. He will only hate you more. No matter what he thinks, I have to live up to my conscience. Remember it. Just this once, let me see you beaten again. Break your head, let him go, let him crawl out on his own , okay , heroes, I promised you to move into the Little Metropolis Dance Hall in three days, now he is ours, okay, that is also yours, okay, okay, whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa