Alexander III of Macedonia, known commonly fascinatingly complex figures in history. In the course of just over 10 years, he conquered spread Hellenic culture from Greece to the the course of human history. For over 2,000 years, his life story has been He began as a young king of Macedonia and his own lifetime. After his death, his legend increased still successor kingdoms and the ultimate aspirational across the Greco-Roman world. During the Middle Ages, he was viewed as a of chivalric values of virtue. Later still, he was viewed as a tragic figure, purely off the back of his own ambition and Today, views of Alexander are more nuanced. Widely acknowledged as one of the greatest is also recognised as being a list of contradictions. He could be as vicious and brutal as he could rationalist but also superstitious and paranoid, ways, truly great. In this video, we will tell the story of Alexander his conquest of Persia. One part of Alexander's success was technological: strong tactics. In this spirit, here are some ways to use not have thought of, from our sponsor Nord Ordinarily Nord VPN lets you change your IP regional restrictions, and it encrypts your Another feature thought is MeshNet, a system securely. That lets you move large or sensitive files or critical data to transfer. Then there's the dark web monitor, which information is being leaked or sold on the it to attack you. You can also get a dedicated IP for your devices, And there is always Threat Protection, a package VPN to provide defenses against malware and That's not even the end of Nord's features, dot com slash kings and generals, and you'll year plan. There's a thirty day risk free money back decide against it, so there's no harm in Get all those features and more today at nord In October 336BC, on the eve of launching II of Macedonia died to an assassin's dagger, future.The crown passed on to his 20 year in court and on the battlefield, Alexander. This young king inherited three key things army with its stalwart phalanx and brilliant Secondly, a core of experienced and disciplined Finally, Alexander inherited a Macedonian 10,000 troops under generals Parmenion and But these inheritances were tenuous and to them. The first order of business was Attalus. Upon Philip's death, his most ardent opponent, letters to Attalus urging him to overthrow Attalus himself was a long-term foe of Alexander, play. In an attempt to save himself, he passed the that he had done nothing to instigate the Alexander, however, was not appeased and had to Asia Minor to secure Parmenion's loyalty Philip's death had also left the wider geopolitical anti-Macedonian rumblings in the tenuously Athens, as well as unrest in subdued tribal At this point it is worth making a quick comment Alexander and the Macedonians were a Hellenic city-states. The Macedonians were, however, a politically and those from the Greek city-states is an As a result, this series will refer to people those from the Greek city-states as 'Greeks'. When referring to both groups, they will be Although advised by Antipater, an experienced cautious, Alexander, as he ever would, instead He grabbed 3,000 handpicked cavalry and sped royal authority. Arriving at the Vale of Tempe, Alexander found held against him by a strong Thessalian force, whether or not to admit him. Unwilling to sit by while this recalcitrant men carve steps into the seaward side of Mount up on the Thessalians from behind. He was quickly acknowledged as their overlord With blistering speed, Alexander rode south of the largely symbolic Amphictyonic League. Then, before the Greeks even knew what was outside Thebes, shocking the proud city and Athens, which always chafed under Macedonian Alexander of its loyalty. The Greek city-states had underestimated Alexander's caught off-guard. As a result, Alexander convened the League his father had been, before returning to Macedon. All that in the course of two months. The winter leading into 335 BC was spent giving warfare. Now that Greece had been dealt with, Alexander and Illyria, so that they were not a threat When spring of 335 arrived, Alexander advanced heavy infantry Pezhetairoi, 8,000 lighter Arrian states that the Macedonian army first Haemus', 'where the lower slopes of the This was probably the modern Shipka Pass. There, a substantial force of Thracians occupied with a wagon fort. But Alexander, prescient both to his own weakness that it was their plan to send the wagons He warned the heavy infantry of this and carefully With that taken care of, Alexander ordered regiments in the centre and his hypaspists As predicted, the Thracians sent their wagons tightly packed Macedonians. Following their king's instruction, the gaps to let the wagons go by harmlessly if locked shields above their head if not. Not a single soldier was lost to the Thracian with a cheer, morale at a high. With the primary threat dealt with, Alexander position in front of the phalanx, where they by loosing arrow volleys. When the heavy troops, whose advance was eased they easily dislodged an enemy whose armour 1,500 tribesmen were killed, but a significant Captured women, children, equipment and goods Descending onto the Danubian plain, and the three days' march from the Danube at a tributary Syrmus - King of the Triballians, had been army's movement ever since their incursion Realising he had to take action, the chief women and children, to a large island in the Alerted to this suspicious population movement, However, he had only just set off when the cut by a second Triballian force, which slipped Decisively turning about, Alexander found near the Lyginus. Hoping to lure the Triballians into the attack, missile troops to harass them while keeping The Thracians, peppered by arrows and slingstones, the missile troops and charged, just as Alexander The Macedonian phalanx attacked the centre Companions or Hetairoi, charged the enemy's The battle was over in moments and was a decisive Thracians lost roughly 3,000 while Alexander These numbers are certainly questionable, overwhelmingly successful. Three days' march later and Alexander reached refuge, known as Peuce. There, as planned, he rendezvoused with a manned them with heavy troops and archers, Unfortunately for the Macedonians, a mixture and a fierce current led to the failure of Seeing he was getting nowhere, Alexander withdrew By that time, a formidable band of 10,000 had gathered on the far side of the Danube. Rather than seeing this as a threat though, and the island might well surrender out of But his army had to cross the Danube, and So, Alexander ordered that every single native should be made from tents stuffed with hay. Thus provisioned with such a makeshift fleet, boldly ferried 4,000 of his infantry and 1,500 Successful, he disembarked them on a section nearby Getae by tall fields of grain. Just before dawn, the king drew up his forces with their sarissae, and cavalry behind. The moment Alexander's strikeforce broke charged his 1,500 cavalry straight at the Macedonian phalanx went forward in lock-step. Impacted by the fearsome companion cavalry Getae collapsed and fled to a nearby town, But, hotly pursued by the Macedonians, the as they could and fled onto the steppe. After leading his triumphant troops back to became reality. Syrmus and his Triballians, awed into submission of capitulation to the king. At about the same time, an embassy of tall The king asked these veritable giants what his name. Much to Alexander's disappointment, they that the sky would fall on their heads. Evidently not everybody found Alexander as sent them off as friends. With the potential danger posed by Thrace south via the Shipka Pass. Rather than turning south, Alexander pivoted Langarus of the Agrianians who had accompanied Agrianian skirmishers. There, he learned that three Illyrian rulers were in revolt against him. But for the moment, all of the king's enemies So, leaving his faithful Agrianian colleague to assail Cleitus' mountain stronghold at The plain on which this citadel stood, dominating sides by densely wooded hills which could It was hard to get in, but also hard to get The moment Alexander marched his army onto to safety behind the walls. Such freedom of the land allowed the Macedonian siege equipment. It was a rare tactical blunder for Alexander leaving his rear exposed. Sure enough, less than 24 hours later, Glaucias strong positions on the wooded heights encircling In need of supplies, the king dispatched the son, Philotas, to forage near the hills. Noticing this, Glaucias shifted his forces reacted swiftly. Moving to Philotas' aid with a picked force the king managed to save his comrade and send Despite this small win, the fact remained entirely by the king's hasty miscalculation. If Alexander attempted to withdraw through Cleitus' Pelium garrison would assail his If he stayed where he was, unable to gather would be inevitable destruction. To his credit, Alexander thought fast and He drew up the sarissa phalanx into a mass on either side. Then the king had his highly disciplined infantry At a signal the phalangites would've, in before lowering them to horizontal. Like a programmed machine of war, they pivoted a word being uttered. Disconcerted and enthralled by this unprecedented were not ready when Alexander gave his final Suddenly, the infantry clattered their spears At the same time, the left flank of the Macedonian charged a portion of Glaucias' men guarding The demoralised Taulantians, taken aback by their hilltop positions and withdrew into Taking advantage of the opportunity his maneuvering an escape route - a ford in the Apsus just He secured a hill overlooking it without resistance this high ground as a rearguard and ordered the phalanx. Realising their quarry might be about to escape on the crossing point. But Alexander, the companions and Agrianians siege catapults could be set up on the far the first recorded use of siege weapons as This use of 'field artillery' and covering be completed, and all of a sudden, the Macedonians Not having lost a single man in extricating away, Alexander withdrew a few miles from scouting parties to see what Glaucias and After three days of general recuperation, news. Believing Alexander was gone, the Illyrians fortifications or trenches3. Sensing that an opportunity was ripe for the of hypaspists, archers, Agrianians and 3,000 Under the cover of a dark night, the Macedonian his Agrianians at the forefront, assaulted It was a slaughter. As Arrian relates: "Some they killed in as they tried to escape. Many were caught and killed on the spot, many Cleitus, his entire army cut down or scattered Pelium, set it ablaze and then fled to refuge forces suffered a similar fate. Our primary sources do not detail exactly believes that the Macedonians marched up the where they reunited with a victorious Langarus. With news of victory, however, the Agrianian Many Greek city-states had always harboured Thebes and Athens in particular. Revolt had been bubbling for some time, but and his entire army had been killed in Illyria, notably Demosthenes of Athens, began to call Thebes need little convincing. They seized the opportunity, killing both besieging the Macedonian garrison on the Theban of rebellion. This was no spontaneous revolt, however. Demosthenes had likely been planning the revolt to secure Persian funding. It was with this funding that Theban exiles home city, overthrowing the Macedonian garrison. To make matters worse, there is also archaeological supported Alexander's cousin, Amyntas, as Alexander knew that he was needed in Greece needed to make sure that the political situation As such, he turned to the one person that On Alexander's instruction, Olympias conducted opponents, including Amyntas and Philip's While Olympias consolidated his position in over 30,000 troops 250 miles at a speed of into Thessaly, passed Thermopylae and encamped Not long after that, in September 335BC, he outside Thebes, much to the disbelief of the There was surely no way for an army of such While the army had been approaching, the Thebans was correct that Alexander was indeed dead, his generals, such as Antipater. Upon arriving at the city though, it became king himself in the flesh. Many Greek city-states had initially rallied Spartans both throwing in their lot with them. Alexander's arrival changed everything. The Athenians, in the midst of preparations events would play out, while the Spartans Corinth. Soon, Thebes was left effectively stranded Fortunately for Thebes, the king's temper Keen to reconcile with Greece so he could Empire, Alexander merely demanded that two and Prothytes, be handed over, and everything The Thebans spat on this olive branch, making Antipater should instead be handed to them. Moreover, all who wanted Greece free from the banner of the Great King and Thebes. As Alexander flew into a rage at this nerve-grazing the gates and made lightning attacks on the killing a decent number of the king's troops they were repulsed. Night fell, passed and then the sun rose again, shifted his army to the south where the Cadmea Here the Thebans had constructed two layers of the Macedonian garrison and it was just made his camp. The Thebans had freed slaves and armed as These hastily mustered forces were assigned experienced hoplites and cavalry took up positions What happened next is not entirely clear, sources, but a rough narrative can be established. Alexander split his army into three parts, at various points and keeping one in reserve. The Thebans meanwhile marched part of their part defending the stockades. Seeing this, Alexander assigned one section while another attacked the defences. The fighting was fierce with little ground off the Macedonian forces and almost managing to commit his reserves. At some point in the battle, Perdiccas, one able to force a way into the city, either gate. Perdiccas himself was badly wounded in the to begin flooding into the city. Upon hearing that the city had been breached, to withdraw into the walls but the chaotic gate into the city becoming clogged. At the same time, the Macedonian garrison Thebans from within. With the defensive line crumbled and the walls in the streets of the city with individual The Macedonians were ruthless, cutting down of the fighting, 6,000 Thebans and 500 Macedonians The entire city of Thebes, a city which had so many myths of the Greek world, was razed the Cadmea, with the entire population being In Arrian's account, this grim fate was namely the Phocians, Thespians and Plataeans. However, Arrian's account was based primarily successful generals, and is often overly biased Other sources, such as Diodorus, make it clear It is difficult to say which is the more accurate, certainty that if Alexander had wanted the The sack of Thebes and enslavement of the explicit orders, then at least with his consent. It was a grim reminder that while Alexander he could also be brutal and ruthless. Thebes was one of the greatest cities in the been analogous to the destruction of a major It had served Alexander's purposes perfectly, Across Greece, anti-Macedonian sentiment was silenced. Compliance was the order of the day. Turning his burning gaze to Athens, which obvious role in the outbreak, Alexander coldly who had 'opposed his interests'. Instead, an Athenian known as Demades went to forgive and forget, which he reluctantly But this final clemency didn't avail him With Thebes' unprecedented and shocking nail into the coffin of his relationship with 'Outwardly they collaborated, with cynical '-But they never forgave him... After their first shocked terror had worn hardened into a bitter and implacable hatred." But for the moment, the king was not overly After leaving behind him the smoldering pile to Pella and gathered all the Macedonian magnates. Together, they began planning the invasion During this meeting, the king's advisors before departing. Alexander refused the suggestion, however. A marriage at this stage could have strengthened have left behind a consort who could have Similarly, if he left any heir in Macedonia potentially turned against him. Moreover, Alexander's ambitions lay in the less bargaining power later down the line Royal finances were also in a precarious state; and politician, he had cared little for Macedonia's a large debt. A year of nonstop military campaigning put was forced to turn to his companions and nobles The propagandised account goes that Alexander until the finances of each companion were One of them - Perdiccas, is said to have asked Alexander replied, "My hopes." What the king was doing here, though, as Peter Alexander was confident, however, that these soon to be taken from the Persian Empire. With the assembly thus concluded and all matters invasion army advanced through Macedonia and leaving Antipater as regent at home. As his invasion of the Achaemenid Empire begins, had at his command in 334BC. It was undeniably the most tactically and the age, a culmination of the ideas and advancements of the Greek world, including Epamninodas, and strategies from various peoples such as This theme of adopting styles and manners by Alexander throughout his career. The exact size of Alexander's force varies on the source. Modern historians are similarly divided on a general picture of Alexander's force based the source that gives the most detailed break-down A large proportion of the Macedonian standing kept in Macedonian under the command of Antipater the League of Corinth . Nevertheless, this formidable force for Persian campaign. 9,000 were phalangites, also called pezhetairoi, backbone of the Macedonian army. These were broken up into battalions of 1,500 more experienced officers under Alexander's Supporting these were the elite hypaspists Whether these prestigious troops were armed debated, but they seemed to have fulfilled arms depending on the situation. Rounding off the heavy infantry were 5,000 and, lastly, 7,000 similarly armed soldiers under the command of the grizzled veteran Alexander's propaganda pushed the idea of these 7,000 men were seemingly the fulfilment In reality though, Alexander never truly trusted to hostages to ensure good behaviour amongst and reserves, never as front line soldiers. Supplementing the heavy infantry were 7,000 who were armed in the old peltast style and role, and lastly 1,000 archers and Agrianians. The Agrianians in particular were renowned the 'Gurkhas of the ancient world' and favoured units for missions requiring particular This infantry force was the Macedonian anvil, The crowning jewel of this force was the famed cavalry. Always stationed in the position of honour 7 squadrons of 200 under the command of another squadron commanded by Alexander personally, of all the squadrons when in battle. This royal squadron also contained Alexander's closest friends, such as Hephaestion and Ptolemy. Supporting the Companions were the equally Armed in a similar fashion to the Companions, side of the battlefield on the left flank, Lastly among the cavalry were 900 light cavalry, allied Greek city-states. In total, Alexander's force therefore consisted cavalry. Accompanying the soldiery were auxiliary elements administrators under a certain bookish Cardian would study and document the exotic wonders Aristotle's nephew and Alexander's boyhood official historian. Twenty days and over three hundred miles later, and prepared to cross the Hellespont. However, while Parmenion did the donkey work to conduct a complex but unopposed crossing and crossed at Elaeus with a small force. According to one account, Just as the king's clad in full armour, launched a spear into as spear-won land. Making sacrifices to the gods and conducting made a sojourn to the mythical city of Troy and partaking in a ritual for Achilles and Hephaestion. Alexander then went north with his entourage supervision on a plain near the town of Arisbe. Alexander marshaled the army to readiness Then, almost certainly motivated by a mixture a march eastward towards the satrapal capital Rather than taking the entire army, the king hoplites, perhaps suspecting their loyalty Making good time with his core Macedonian in horsemen, Alexander warned his men that permitted, as this was Greek land under occupation. More deviously, the properties of a dangerous - Memnon of Rhodes, were to be especially distrust him. The Achaemenid Empire was a colossal entity that the Great King - a recently crowned Darius such a petty frontier disturbance personally. Moreover, as Olmstead has suggested, a significant in Egypt, having only recently quelled a revolt Instead, several satraps from the western Arsites3, and several others mustered their with Memnon of Rhodes, to take counsel on Fully realising just how lethal Alexander's and aware that the invaders were short on the Persian satraps not to engage in a pitched Instead, they ought to enact a scorched earth wells, and even burn villages down if necessary. By doing so, and opening a second front in another revolt, Alexander would have to scurry This objectively shrewd advice meant possibly western satraps, and they balked at the prospect. Unwilling to torch their own lands and subtly in his loyalty, the Persian governors universally to fight it out. It is also possible that the satraps were for scorning shirkers among his subordinate for no good reason. A number of other factors may have contributed honour and internal politics. Satraps such as Arsites were used to getting high position to Darius himself, rather than Arsites in particular had reason to distrust estates in his own satrapy. Whatever the reason, the Persians mustered on the River Granicus, set on facing Alexander. Following his departure from Arisbe, Alexander coast via Percote and Lampascus before advancing Arriving on the vast plain of which the Granicus was arrayed in a standard preparatory formation and the baggage train behind. Cavalry and light infantry screened the flanks In the late afternoon, just before the Granicus, the impetuous king that a Persian army had This news prompted Alexander to redeploy his swiftly able to accomplish due to the battle-ready However, when the Macedonian army got to the about the prospect of immediate battle. Lined up atop the steep far bank were just across the empire, roughly twice Alexander's Arsames and Memnon of Rhodes led Cilician left, flanked to the right by Arsites and assorted mounted troops in the center, and On the extreme right was Rheomithres leading As the Persians had ever since their empire's Wars, roughly 5,000 to 6,000 Greek mercenary army's heavy infantry force. However, possibly because they had the same his Greeks, the satraps positioned this hired a reserve force under the command of a Persian The rock-hard center of Alexander's line led by Meleager, Philip, Amyntas, Craterus, To the right of the phalanx were Nicanor's himself at the forefront of 1,800 companion agrianians, and some archers. 2,700 Thessalian, Thracian, and league cavalry Following the army's deployment, Parmenion the king to delay any battle until the following A hasty and most probably failed attack over would be a fatal blow to the entire expedition. However, if they waited until morning, the in the infantry, might withdraw from their crossing. Our sources disagree on what the response However, most tell us that because of his great deeds or not wanting to buoy Persian Parmenion's cautionary advice, with Plutarch would blush for shame if, having crossed that and prepared the army for an immediate attack. Clad in magnificent armour on the right wing, number of elite contingents under the satraps hammer, hoping to kill him and end the incursion. The Battle of the River Granicus finally began of prodromoi mounted skirmishers, Paeonian and his agrianian favourites into the river, However, facing some of the best Achaemenid riverbed, they met predictably stiff resistance. Throwing spears and other pinpoint accurate advance force, causing terrible casualties Some of the satrapal units descended to meet the riverbed itself, removing them from the This attack gradually drew in even more regiments disrupting the orderly formation on Arsites' requirements. With the enemy drawn out and exposed by his wholesale at the head of just under 2,000 wedge formation. Galloping into the river obliquely to the little resistance, the hetairoi and their into the exposed Persian left wing in the were fighting. This struggle against the best Achaemenid battle with, as it were, infantry tactics: together, the Macedonians did their utmost from the river bank and force him into open the landings and hurl their opponents back The companions' discipline, skill, and armament In particular, the Macedonians' efficient to the lighter spear of the Persian cavalry. However, despite this gradual forcing of the the thick of the fighting, became the target to kill him as the speartip of his forces Accounts differ as to the nature of this clash, Alexander's retinue penetrated the line, a new one from a bodyguard. Isolated on the far bank with just a few companions, of enemy cavalry. The leader of one - Darius III's son-in-law around and drove his newly-gotten spear into It was only a moment later that another Persian and lopped off a part of his helmet before While locked in this mortal combat with Rhoesaces, of Lydia, bore down on Alexander from behind The Persian's sword was about to fall and However, at the last possible moment, an officer Spithridates arm at the shoulder, saving Alexander experiences for the young king. By that point, having inflicted fearsome casualties companions were getting the better of the Furthermore, the Agrianian skirmishers managed and get in among the beleaguered enemy horsemen. As this hinge point on Alexander's right was charged by Rheomithres' Bactrians and In the center, the six taxeis of phalangites the Granicus, ineffectually showered by the When it became clear that the companions had the satrapal army broke in a wave of panic impact on the right all the way to Parmenion cavalry there. A number of gallant Achaemenid units fought great quantity, included among them Memnon escape the field and ride to Miletus. They were able to do so easily because Alexander, on the far bank as well, didn't give chase Instead, the Macedonian cavalry wrapped around Greek mercenaries on either side, encircling for another fight. We are left with no concrete reason as to march forward and join the main battle. It is entirely possible that Alexander's to Professor Michael Thompson was accomplished and left them with no ample opportunity to Unfortunately, we can never know for sure, As if all of a sudden realising their dire Greek king wouldn't be too draconian, the Rather than granting it though, the Macedonian thousands of them in a hard-fought last stand. Aristobolus claims that here, Alexander was In doing so, Alexander may have intended to do not fight for Persian gold or you will Plutarch, however, considered the violence that Alexander was "influenced more by anger This was a fair point: by the time the fighting the remaining 2,000, including some Athenians, in chains to labor in mines there, while Alexander point in the battle. This cost had gained Alexander very little a reputation he could ill afford among the In the future, Alexander would be more cautious fail to miss an opportunity to show his magnanimity Between 1,000 and 2,500 of the 10,000 Persian with almost a dozen named higher officers On the victorious Macedonian side, casualty Taking into account the possibility of propaganda that 100 to 120 cavalry were lost and only When one remembers that all the sources stress the Greek mercenaries had been, it becomes However disputable these figures are though, All of Asia Minor now lay open to the taking. After visiting the wounded and giving an honourable enemy warriors, Alexander appointed his own instructed him to maintain the general status Zeleia was taken and pardoned, while Parmenion nearby Dascylium, which had been abandoned Then, about eight miles short of Sardis, the figures came to meet the Macedonians, in order city in its entirety to Alexander. From initial insecurity and near collapse managed, in just two years, to crush an Achaemenid great capitals of the ancient Near East. But that was just the first step. Far to the east, in the heart of his massive massive royal force to confront the invading As Alexander considered his first victory Sardis acropolis, looking out onto the great the real challenge was about to begin. Reports of what had occurred at the Granicus speed, and to immediate effect. At Ephesus, the mercenary garrison together - Amyntas, seized a pair of warships and abandoned king's court. Marching from Sardis, the victorious Macedonian a three-day march, before rendezvousing with Lydian towns offering submission. Intent on securing his conquests before advancing in the area, made predominantly of League a contingent of several thousand troops and settlements throughout Ionia, Lydia, and Aeolia. Their remit was clear - Greek cities were oligarchies were to be deposed, local custom - a gesture which never hurts a new ruler's At this point, while he was concluding affairs important messages in quick succession. First came welcome reports that the governor surrender his city. Then came the definitely less welcome news spotted near Rhodes on its way to reinforce Finally, sometime later, Alexander got wind knowledge that reinforcements were en route, Realising he had to act swiftly to prevent fortress, Alexander sent riders to recall south with what soldiers he had. The king's League fleet of about 160 ships Parmenion's son, was sent ahead. Racing along the coast, it succeeded in arriving was anywhere close, where it set down anchor Not long thereafter Alexander arrived with outer suburbs without resistance, before establishing Then, to reinforce his anchored fleet at Lade, Thracian skirmishers and a few thousand mercenary The massive Persian fleet finally approached fleet had made its base at Lade. However, despite a numerical superiority of and Cypriot crews, the Persians realised they navy from Lade nor easily deploy troops to The 400 Persian ships were therefore forced at an exposed, suboptimal position off Mount from any source of freshwater by parties of With Parmenion and Alcimachus having returned, fleet on the defensive at Lade, and began breach the city fortifications. As the king's preparations were nearing behalf of the mercenary garrison to parley. According to this messenger, the garrison Persians and Alexander alike if only the siege Alexander's unimpressed response was simple: The city was simply too vital for Alexander's of it. Macedonian ballistae and catapults began hammering wall, and inflicting structural damage while up close. The main body of infantry was drawn up as preparation to rush in and widen any gap made However, due to the strength of the garrison Macedonian attack was blunted with relative Arrian recounts how the nearby Persian fleet were prevented from rendering any assistance his fleet across the mouth of the harbor, With the Miletians now completely isolated, managing to break through the walls. Of the Milesian defenders, just 300 mercenaries to escape to a steep-sided islet slightly When they surrendered soon after, Alexander also sparing the Greek civilian population Unable to prevent the fall of a city it had from foraging onshore, the still formidable with whatever they needed and then returned the harbour entrance. Five Persian vessels were sent as bait to hit-and-run assault by ten Greek triremes running back to the main fleet. Unable to accomplish anything of use, the south to Halicarnassus. With Miletus conquered, it was at this moment strategic decision to disband his fleet. Not only would such an unconventional course the massive cost3 required to maintain said their Greek crews. Moreover, the king was pragmatic enough to Darius' naval strength on the water with Just 20 Athenian triremes were retained to Based on his army's pitched battle at the that investing everything in a land campaign His army was 'master of the continent' its troops would fight on even harder. Still, Persian seaborne might was a firm threat the war to a second front in Greece or even So, rather than attempting to oppose Achaemenid by vainly headbutting it with ships of his the ships from the land.' He would embark on a Herculean endeavour within down the Mediterranean coastline and capturing operated. The first victim of Alexander's new strategy eponymous Mausoleum was constructed a few Halicarnassus had strong natural defences a fantastic harbour, and had its garrison thousand mercenaries under Memnon of Rhodes' This Greek general, who had risen to new heights official commander of Achaemenid efforts in En route to this showdown with Memnon, Alexander - Alinda, and was introduced to the exiled Until just a few years before the Macedonian Minor - known as Caria, had been ruled by who were, in turn, autonomous satraps within Ada, a Hecatomnid princess, had been the rightful brother Pixodarus5 in 340. He died a few years later, allowing the Persians and install him as satrap6. Now, Ada asked the king for aid in taking Alexander was more than happy to take up Ada's Moreover, the two reportedly became very close, and Ada eventually adopting Alexander as her Ada was popular in the area and, By accepting Siculus tells us that Alexander won allegiance The king subsequently moved on Halicarnassus by crenellated walls and fronted by a large Alexander encamped half a mile from the eastern However, Persian naval supremacy had succeeded landing, so Alexander was forced to improvise Mounting his steed, Alexander led a scouting defences they faced. Memnon was on him in an instant. When this scouting force approached, the Rhodian upon the Macedonians from his walls. Then, not giving the invaders a second, he at Alexander's men with javelins and other A quick counterattack by the king managed Alexander nevertheless pulled back to camp. Several days after this initial probe, Alexander hypaspists, and Agrianians, supplemented them around to the western gate. While his primary aim in this endeavour was had also been whisperings from sympathisers a few miles to the northwest, that the city take it that night. Its possession would make seizing Halicarnassus a nearby port through which he could transport Under the cover of darkness, Alexander's prearranged time. Upon his arrival though, he found the city that the Macedonians had been promised. Unwilling or unable to abandon the gambit in an effort to take the town by force. One of Myndus' guard towers fell with relative resisted until reinforcements arrived from Having been prepared to simply walk into Myndus, siege and so withdrew to the Mylasa Gate back army. In what was a truly fortunate twist of fate, siege train managed to evade Memnon's ships cove. After a rocky start, things were, at last, As the siege engines were made ready, Alexander roofed sheds, to fill in large sections of With the ground prepared, the first proper While trundling siege towers and artillery rams and mining operations gradually undermined When the Macedonian undermining efforts managed a tower, Alexander would throw his infantry The Macedonian soldiery fought exceptionally but Memnon's equally disciplined Greek mercenaries, and wall-archers managed to keep the invaders So far so good, but Memnon and his command efforts were destroying the walls with disconcerting A proactive stance had to be made to prevent So that same night, while builders worked makeshift, secondary fortifications, a commando slipped out of the Carian capital unnoticed siege machines. Getting close, the Greek general attempted rams and artillery pieces. Unfortunately for his raiding party, its presence the alarm. Macedonian reinforcements converged and a Beleaguered, unsuccessful and having lost forced into retreat, but the hard nighttime wounded. Having suffered such casualties, neither side content to lick their wounds. This state of affairs apparently changed three infantrymen from Perdiccas' regiment. In the process of drinking together, each brave they were. Amusingly and almost certainly because of these two enterprising warriors taking up words into action8. Perhaps somewhat bemused by the odd attack, sallied out to assail them, but were in turn warriors. Made aware that some of their comrades were marched to the fight, drawing even more defenders. This haphazard engagement grew and grew until against the half-destroyed Mylasa section Suddenly, with the eastern fortifications forces might actually get into the city on Unfortunately for the troops who started the matched by most of the Macedonian army which, did not press the attack in time, and Perdiccas' Alexander's late intervention prevented To protect the area, Memnon had a crescent was clearly a weakness. Still, the whimsical nature of this event that claimed the lives of many on both sides. So many Macedonians were killed, in fact, for a truce so bodies might be recovered. Two of Memnon's Athenian comrades - Ephialtes this request. Memnon, in a move which allows us to see some it anyway. No real timescale is given by which we can had managed to hold the city for at least Knowing that they would need to go on the the trio concocted a daring strategy. Handpicking 2,000 mercenaries, Ephialtes sallied position. While half formed a phalanx and doggedly held wielded brands and caused a 'great conflagration' Ephialtes' surprise attack, ably assisted back Alexander's infantry. The situation became even more critical when the city with Persian reserves, striking the At this moment, beset on all sides, Diodorus quite helpless.' It seemed as though the Persians were close the siege. However, it was at this final juncture that veterans from Philip's era, locked their the fray. These men smashed directly into Ephialtes' ripped them to pieces. This action was enough to rally the rest of In minutes following this intervention, the soldiers were slain, leaving the sortie leaderless. Worse still was the psychological effect. The defenders had been on the edge of victory, They were not prepared for another fresh foe, So panicked were the Halicarnassians at this gates too hastily, trapping a portion of their the ruined curtain wall. Over 1,000 of Memnon's troops had been slain off. Still, Alexander, whose deployment of the back to camp at nightfall. Unknown to him, the siege was over and he Inside the moonlit city, Memnon and Orontobates of their severe losses and the failure of part of the city. Memnon installed the best of his remaining at Salmakis and the Arconesse before loading navy, together with whatever movable supplies Then, in a methodical, scorched earth attempt from his conquest, the withdrawing Achaemenids and houses next to the walls. It does not seem to have been a vindictive population, but seasonal autumn winds fanned areas of the ancient city. While Memnon raised anchor and embarked, Alexander At the king's command, Macedonian regiments city, rescuing any inhabitant imperilled by fire breaks. Surveying the still-garrisoned fortresses, to prevent any sortie, but found himself unable of Arconesse. Leaving 3,000 mercenaries and 200 cavalry kept his promise and gave Ada the satrapy Minor. As he did so, the armies of Great King Darius east. In the course of the next year - 333, they between the two greatest kings of the age Once affairs at Halicarnassus had been settled, Parmenion marched off to the north with orders while Alexander took the rest on an eastward to rejoin Parmenion in Gordium. Moving into Lycia as 334 passed into 333, of over 30 towns, including Telmessos, Xanthus, Following a brief spat with some Pisidian their own families to death rather than have passed into Phrygia and swiftly reached the As it possessed a nigh impregnable acropolis, terms that if no relief arrived within a certain After personally waiting ten days, the king To conclude matters at Celaenae, Alexander talented generals, Antigonus the One-Eyed, commanding the League troops and would later powerful successors. From Celaenae, Alexander marched north to Phrygian monarch Midas, where he reunited It was also the location of the famous Gordian by Midas himself in such a way that it was Legend said that whoever could untie the knot Never one to pass up on such a propaganda by either removing the lynchpin around which version, simply slicing through it with his Already, Alexander was showing himself to to appeal to local customs in order to secure to be bluntly pragmatic when needed. Fortunate events elsewhere were to grant further After his dogged albeit failed defence of been granted the Great King's green light before the Granicus - scorched earth and a Darius also funneled his favourite Greek general recruited another professional mercenary army ship fleet. With this powerful seaborne force at his disposal, Cos and Samos came over to the Persians, followed on Lesbos. Meanwhile, the Rhodian's agents and spies city-states to revolt against Alexander when In strategic command, Memnon seems to have All of a sudden, a Persian counter-invasion overextension into Asia Minor seemed foolish However, at this moment of greatest danger general suddenly fell ill and died in summer Alexander, who received the news at Ancyra The indirect second front plan was Memnon's completely collapsed. Macedonia was safe. When the disastrous news reached Susa, Darius and allies to establish what exactly was to The majority of these Persian counsellors in person - the troops would fight better One of the detractors - a fervently anti-Macedonian known as Charidemus, hotly argued that it such a gamble. An experienced general such as himself, he sent to conduct the war. Darius agreed at first, but the throng of it down, even accusing the Greek of wanting Fiery-tempered Charidemus shot back, raving manliness. His tirade so offended Darius that the king From Susa therefore, the Great King marched across the empire, and summoned their armies. Meanwhile, at Ancyra, Alexander received the of Cappadocia and Paphlagonia before marching held by a small force of Arsames' troops2. However, in a stroke of luck Alexander would most of his men were busy burning and ruining scorched earth strategy, allowing Alexander Realising what had just happened, Arsames entered Tarsus on September 3rd 333. After jumping into the freezing Cydnus river, illness for several weeks. During this time, he sent Parmenion around situation and hold the crucial passes between Alexander's condition worsened rapidly, there was a serious concern that Alexander There was one doctor in Alexander's camp thought he would be able to treat the king Just before Alexander was about to drink this It contained a grave warning that Alexander's they would soon attempt to poison him. Alexander read the letter carefully and then while his physician read it. Fortunately for Alexander, his friend had recovery soon after. However, one can not help but speculate as Had the cautious general got word of a genuine his motivations more sinister and he had hoped We can not say for sure, but certainly Alexander was. For now, though, Parmenion established a base and established that a massive Persian army Once Alexander had fully recovered, he marched Perhaps acting on misinformation, the king south and arriving opposite the Syrian Gates, In a rare instance for Alexander though, he had been outplayed. The Persian king, accompanied by his wife, had already sent his baggage train to Damascus. With his now more mobile army, Darius made the undefended Amanic Gates and seizing Issus soldiers found there before taking up position Initially not believing that the Persians the coast to establish the truth. When the vessel returned with confirmation grasped the severity of his situation, It Persian king which left Alexander cut off to his south lay hostile territories and strongly Army. With his supply line severed, Alexander had and attack Darius from the front and across Alexander, who was about a dozen miles south army a hot meal in preparation for the coming At the same time, the king sent mounted scouts its destination. When night fell, Alexander marched his whole the Pillar of Jonah, from where he could see the plain. The well-fed soldiery now also got the rest many hours. Just before daybreak, the army rose from its narrow coastal road. Although confined to columns at first due and cavalry behind, More Macedonian warriors opened up, slotting seamlessly into the formation. When Darius received word that Alexander was and most of the cavalry to ford the Pinarus, or even seeing his deployment. It was probably around this time that Alexander regiments lined up with the sea on his left The majority of Alexander's cavalry now the long-awaited showdown was now imminent3. It is incredibly difficult to establish exactly at Issus in 333, a fact that makes charting Typically, hyperbolic ancient sources such as anywhere from 250,000 all the way to 600,000, Modern scholars tend to be just as varied, Worthington, and Hammond, agree on somewhere King of Kings Darius III, manning the royal the front line as Persian tradition dictated. Surrounding his immediate person were the whose number never dropped below 10,000. Off to either flank were 10,000 Greek mercenaries infantry known as Kardakes, fronted by archers. The second line was made up entirely of lightly Now that the infantry was arrayed, Darius Pinarus. Our sources tell us of Medes and Hyrcanians, Cappadocians, Cilicians, Bactrians, Sogdians, massing on the flatter, seaward side of the Another small Persian unit was sent to occupy to threaten the Macedonian right flank and As with his infantry deployment at the Granicus sarissa phalanx was divided into six brigades. They were led, from left to right, by officers and Coenus. To the left of the standard phalanx were Cretan the right were the elite hypaspists under They were flanked to the right by the Macedonian cavalry under Philotas, Paeonian light horse, Thessalian division. His army was still about 40,000 strong in Both forces were now prepared for the clash concern that required attention. First and foremost was the overwhelming concentration Parmenion on the left. If the order of battle stayed as it was, Darius' field. To remedy this, the king swiftly adjusted battlefield to reinforce his second in command Second but still troublesome were the Persians Alexander dealt with them by detaching a force cavalry, and sending them to secure the heights.The and were chased from the hills, Alexander recalling the light infantry to secure his With his concerns dealt with, Alexander ordered begin across his entire line, periodically first. The Persian king did not fall for it, instead At last, when the armies were about to enter of his line to the other, shouting words of lowliest footman alike by name. He told the Macedonians of their valour and had inflicted upon them in centuries past that was waiting just for them. According to Rufus, as Alexander galloped wing, the Persian front raised a great cry with equal vigour. Then, almost simultaneously, both Darius' strike force on the other side of the field, launched their attempted hammer blows. It was now a question of time. Parmenion's Thessalian and allied cavalry eventually collapse, but would that crunch the battle? The warrior-king of Macedonia charged directly force of companions and others, delivering almost immediately. The xyston-wielding cavalry wedge first smashed many and driving the rest back into the infantry Without slowing for a moment, Alexander barrelled as well, utterly collapsing Darius' left Unfortunately for the king, the battle elsewhere Parmenion's gallant horsemen were essentially a losing battle, but that was to be expected. More disconcerting was the situation in the Perhaps drawn in the wake of their king's and hypaspists had drifted yet further to This, combined with the rough terrain near wall of Macedonian sarissa. Before the phalangites could regroup on the highly trained Greek mercenary contingent spears that were better suited to such uneven What ensued was a brutal slogging match - Macedonian Greek enemies amid the steep, bramble-overgrown The inflexible phalanx's inexorable advance Noticing the newly opened gulf between Macedonian attempted to drive into it and break the invaders' All of a sudden, the phalangites began withdrawing. The situation might have turned especially Ptolemy - son of Seleucus4, accompanied by the line steady and plug the gap. 120 of them lost their lives in this ferocious Still, the momentum in the center was with Fresh from his relatively simple task of rolling a look as he could at the state of the battlefield Pivoting inward from the now-exposed Persian the flank and rear of the Greek mercenaries This assault relieved a significant amount it to regain formation and continue advancing The momentum had now shifted the other way. Now either by accident or on purpose, Alexander close to Darius' position. The king laid eyes on the Persian Great King attack, intent on seizing Darius and ending Observing the danger, Darius' dutiful brother Alexander's path who, despite fighting doggedly, In the desperate struggle, one source relates in the leg, before being carried into danger A second vehicle was quickly brought up, allowing Seeing the departure of their near-deific the Persian cavalry assailing Parmenion fell army. Arrian's account of the battle, on the other In his version, once Alexander had routed river, he slowly advanced his army to the As soon as he came within missile range of the battle, charging across the river with the arrow fire. His detachment crashed into the Persian left In the center, however, the Persian force it attempted to scale the banks of the river the phalanx's right flank, left exposed More importantly, the Persian right had charged and was pushing back the Thessalians placed This, then, was the moment of crisis. The Macedonian center and left needed to hold left, and swing back to be the hammer on the Fortunately, Alexander's initial charge soon crumbled. Quickly he gathered his force together once hitting the Persian centre in the flank and It was at this point that Darius, seeing his fled the battle. The Persian right flank, though having been flank, saw that the battle was now lost and By all accounts the Battle of Issus was over to finished yet. To destroy the Persian king's army wasn't So, while the Macedonian soldiery set about great king's staggeringly lavish camp, the was about half a mile ahead of his cavalry. Only twenty five miles later, when darkness Darius having escaped across the mountains. In the meantime, the triumphant Macedonian in the Persian camp. This included vast quantities of gold, silver, of Persian custom, all of the royal women the battlefield. The less noteworthy of these captives were Ancient sources, particularly Arrian, stress defeat on his abandoning of the battlefield. However, it is worth noting that Arrian is thus anti-Persian sources. Other sources make it clear that Darius fought fact that he had become king of Persia partly Modern historians largely agree that Darius left, but was ultimately out-generalled by to retreat or else risk being captured or It was one of many examples that displayed of warfare and how he could manipulate an There are myriad stories about what Alexander These include Alexander's care and reverence king's good humour when Darius' mother Hephaestion for Alexander. But the most telling is related by Plutarch. Upon returning from pursuit, Alexander came for him by pages, overflowing as it was with treasures beyond count. Walking further into the magnificent property saw the great golden bath of the king, 'the all of gold and curiously wrought'. Although a royal and used to comfort, the seen anything like this, let alone owned it. So, after surveying his prodigious new wealth, words "This, as it would seem, is to be These post-battle anecdotes are particularly Arrian writes how he 'cannot but admire with such respect and being magnanimous in admirable personality. But this initial taste of 'oriental' luxury the near-despot that he would eventually become, But for now, Alexander had won the Battle With it, the western half of the Achaemenid Despite a victory at Issus Alexander couldn't heartland now. This wouldn't just draw him into an unknown, but would also leave behind potentially fatal Much of the royal army's massive cavalry where they were sure to wreak havoc on Macedonian Of even greater importance still was the Great command of satrap Pharnabazus, had renewed most of it. So, while Darius began raising another army to continue with his plan to take over Persia's A few days of rest after Issus and the army into Phoenicia. Following the surrender of Marathus that Alexander III: if Alexander restored to him his wife, and called off the invasion, he would cede Cilicia to Sinope to Macedon. If Philip's old guard led by Parmenion caught the invasion had achieved all its objectives, during his war council and the proposal was It was in response that Alexander penned his let any communication you wish to make with Do not write to me as an equal. Everything you possess is now mine; so, if proper terms, or I shall take steps to deal If, on the other hand, you wish to dispute not run away. Wherever you may hide yourself, be sure I Alexander continued marching south, accepting Byblos and Sidon and the kings of Cyprus. Moving on even further south, the army neared turn of 332 BC. This most famous of Phoenician cities was Old Tyre was on the mainland, while the primary, on a rocky island half a mile offshore. As Alexander approached the unique city he the son of Tyre's king Azemilcus who, along at sea with the Persian navy2. Their demeanor was respectful and hospitable, However, they were not about to hand Tyre In response, Alexander expressed a desire within the island city itself. To allow Alexander to do this would essentially so the envoys declined Alexander's request, equally revered temple in the Old Tyre. Alexander exploded in anger, as he sometimes that they should not be so confident in their of the mainland. Once the envoys returned home, they counselled However, buoyed by their formidable island the strength of their natural and constructed If they hadn't been sure enough that this of Carthaginians began encouraging the people promising great reinforcement from their own Despite his anger, neither Alexander nor his the island city with a purely land army, as The king's temper cooled and he sent some people of Tyre to accept peace terms. Possibly mistaking this as a sign of weakness, and threw their bodies into the sea. The battle became inevitable. Despite the grandstanding and emotional language had serious strategic concerns at the forefront The Tyrians were an autonomous vassal of the with Darius. The island city had been sieged many times Nebuchadnezzar II, and had successfully defended If they could keep the Macedonians pinned to muster his armies and send forces to strike Minor, which was still being held by Antigonus. Alexander, on the other hand, could not risk The idea of occupying the old city and simply his generals, but rejected by Alexander. Tyre's harbours were large enough to hold presented the risk of the Persians landing Minor or Greece. It was simply too dangerous; Alexander would A great portion of the Macedonian officers task ahead of them. But Alexander, in his typically daring manner, He really would make island Tyre part of the To enact his scheme, the king had Old Tyre At the same time, parties were dispatched timber from the cedar trees on the mountain To supplement the soldiers in their efforts, were drafted to serve as a labour corps which strong. Now possessing the materiel and the men to a 200 foot-wide mole from the mainland across of the Sidonian Harbour. The king's engineers would sink wooden piles as a foundation, and then lay massive timber In the muddy terrain and shallow water adjacent and the mole's construction got underway Alexander was constantly present at the forefront how to proceed, motivating them with words for men who had particularly impressed him The Tyrians, initially believing the mole Alexander, jeering and asking the king if The Macedonian efforts were so disconcertingly efficient time however, that the people of Some of the city's women and children were ready and the defenders began constructing a proper fight in the very near future3. Trouble began for Alexander's besieging taking the construction near missile range. Aiming to stop Alexander's effort in its to each side of the mole. Near unopposed on the sea and loaded with skirmishing vessels darted in close and unleashed corps working on the land bridge. The draftees along with Alexander's soldiers, terrible casualties in this initial naval To counter this kind of attack, a series of as a barrier against arrow fire, allowing Two siege towers were also constructed at own missile troops a platform from which to Difficulties now began increasing for both Rumours of ill portents spread of Macedonian having visions of Apollo and it is even said before swimming away again. To make matters worse, Alexander's timber to near constant harassing raids from Arab The Tyrians now embarked upon a daring and They brought forward a large transport ship pitch, sulphur and other fiercely burning This fire ship was towed in the mole's direction at the last moment, peeled away and flung siege bridge like an ancient cruise missile. It struck the edge and burst into an oily, burning down the towers and killing a great At the same time, the Tyrians launched another mole, attacking the vulnerable laborers carrying and setting fire to any siege equipment that Soon, all along the mole was fire and death. Alexander was seemingly losing control of Something had to be done. After directing his dependable lieutenants even wider than before with towers and artillery, of favourites and rode north to Sidon in search As Arrian tells us 'for clearly, so long siege of Tyre would be no easy matter.' It was during the king's short stay in Sidon of the Issus campaign revealed itself, however Having defected from Darius' naval war after rulers of Byblos and Aradus pledged their Together with the Sidonians, that totalled high-quality crews. Other scattered vessels sailed from Lycia, More promising still, the Kings of Cyprus, 120 ships and added them with Alexander's While the burgeoning fleet was being brought king ventured out on a punitive expedition handled the Arab tribes who had been raiding Plutarch tells us that during this venture, during the night and personally slew two Arab Upon returning to Sidon the king not only additional mercenaries at his command. With his new armada of loyal client-kings back to Tyre. Initially, the Tyrians arrayed slightly off sea, but this giant force was far more than Wisely, the Tyrian fleet withdrew to the safety vessels. The balance of power was now firmly on Alexander's The Macedonian-allied fleet spent the night when the sun came up. As soon as it did, Alexander ordered the Phoenician harbour, while sending the Cypriots to do effectively neutralising and reversing Tyre's With that security, work on the mole began Unfortunately for Alexander, a ferocious storm the walls. Rain hammered down from the sky in torrents, This turn of luck not only made it impossible existing structure, setting the construction To remedy this, the king had a number of massive side of the mole, where they absorbed most When the storm at last subsided, these wave and the damage was soon repaired and expanded missile range of the walls. Intent on giving his workmen cover for the siege catapults and stone-throwers on the Together with the artillery-armed fleet and a withering bombardment against the Tyrian walls. Alexander also introduced a new kind of weapon: and break down the Tyrian's defenses, the Although under immense pressure, the Tyrians to break the force of Alexander's artillery From these Tyre's archers loosed volley vessels, while the citizens worked at terrific In some places that wasn't viable, so they walls to plug the gap. At day's end, the situation in the city still stood firm. Sailing around to the seaward side of Tyre to take the city while it was sleeping, but storm and forced to pull back. The Tyrians used this moment of breathing the shallow water adjacent to the walls, making ships to get close. Growing increasingly desperate, the Tyrians divers who would plunge into the waters and attempt to disrupt the fleet, forcing Alexander On land, Tyre's inventors and engineers invaders, including a fire-thrower that belched scythes and even militarised fishing nets This last-ditch attitude was exacerbated by Thirty more Carthaginian emissaries arrived to inform their mother city that aid would that impossible. Alexander spent some time clearing the stones his ships to once again get close to the walls. At the same time, following a final Herculean the way from the Phoenician coast to Tyre As Alexander had vowed to the envoys of Tyre city part of the mainland. The time for a full-scale attack had come. At the advent of midsummer, the Macedonians of the mole, and from the sea on their assault Massive stones launched by catapults smashed of stone and sending it crashing onto the Ballista bolts and archery fire raked the others duck for cover. Under the cover of this bombardment Alexander's to attempt an escalade that would finally They put fierce pressure onto the Tyrians manner, but also used their mad inventions Especially mentioned for their effectiveness and gravel, heated until it was glowing. This fine mixture was then tipped onto Alexander's armour plates and burned into flesh. After a long struggle which yielded no real king was once again forced to abandon the Dejected and exhausted, Alexander even briefly and marching onto Egypt, but Alexander held costlier even than doggedly soldiering on. His persistence was to be rewarded. As they themselves were now in a desperate Harbour launched a massive naval sortie completely As the crews were at rest, dozens of Macedonian-allied and for a moment it seemed as though the Tyrians However, Alexander personally led a squadron off the overextended Tyrian squadron, destroying in the harbour, from where they could now The king's troops and ships followed up near the northern harbour, but he was pushed From there his forces turned to assault a the southern harbour, which Alexander judged Artillery let loose once more and a breach Rather than throwing everything into this attack and then withdrew. He was, however, now sure that the Macedonians A further few days passed as Alexander rested and waited for good weather to return. When the wind and sea quietened down on the assault vessels and launched a massive attack Artillery once again hammered the area, collapsing Simultaneous attacks were made from the mole to keep the Tyrians busy. When the main breach was wide enough, the valiant king strode through, closely followed phalanx and others. As though suddenly realising their ultimate contesting the Macedonians for every step. The fighting was so brutal that Admetus - captain the skull. But Alexander's men had done it at last, and gaining a firm foothold in the city. At the same time, Phoenician and Cypriot squadrons retreat of most remaining defenders on the by enemy soldiers. They ran and ran, pursued by the Macedonians, There they fought the last stand and died With the end of organised resistance, chaos soldiers conducted a savage rampage throughout Peter Green paints a picture of the mood and "All restraint, abandoned, hysterical and dreadful siege, mere butchers now, striking Tyre became a bloody, reeking abattoir." 7,000 soldiers and citizens were butchered by Alexander when the soldiers' fury died The casualty figures would've been far worse heroes. Although entering the conquered, hated city they, feeling the plight of their Phoenician to safety at Sidon. Alexander's casualties are unknown, but certainly too low. The attacks on the mole, the numerous repelled higher number though it is impossible to make Tyre, already aflame, was utterly destroyed, 30,000 people, were sold into slavery. The siege of Tyre is perhaps the greatest and mastery of siegecraft, however, as with of how brutal Alexander could be to those When news of Tyre's end spread, almost every prepared to surrender and Darius III, who sent even more favourable peace terms. They were denied once more by Alexander, who Pharaohs. As he went, time passed and the elements took Gradually the rough edges and sharp joints which so boldly connected Tyre to the mainland, Sand gathered and winds blew, connecting Tyre Today, as Green tells us 'deep under the stone core of that fantastic causeway still and permanent legacies to posterity.' Following the capture and destruction of Tyre once more rejected generous peace overtures Alongside the taking of Tyre, other theatres In the Aegean, his lieutenants had been able gather a fleet and defeat the Persian squadrons In Asia Minor, remnants of Darius' army only to be defeated in three battles by the With these victories under his belt, Alexander now, he wanted the entirety of the Persian The next objective was to the south - Egypt. As the Alexander's army, victorious in every pushed into Palestine, it received the immediate except one. That single defiant was Gaza - a formidable to Egypt. Like Tyre, it too would have to be taken. Unfortunately for Alexander, Gaza's Persian siege on Tyre, taking the measure of hiring with plentiful stores to withstand a siege The 160 mile march south through Phoenicia lack of conflict. Refreshment was hard to come by and the climate arid. The army's salvation was the fleet element Hephaestion, which kept the advancing soldiers Ake - known during the Crusades as Acre, The simple progress finally came to a swift in September of 332 BC. Alexander's army took up position opposite side of the city - which the Macedonians considered The city of Gaza was situated upon a large city extremely difficult. Alexander initially tried to move his siege in range of the walls, but the shifting sands As with Tyre, however, Alexander had an ingenious Rather than moving across the flat sands, height as Gaza's walls, allowing his siege During the course of these operations, the for the gods' aid. While the ritual was ongoing, it is said that dry mud on Alexander's head before taking was viewed as a grim omen by the soldiery Alexander consulted his personal soothsayer the fall of the city, but also harm that would He recommended that the army take no action Alexander was, the king acquiesced. Deciding that the passivity of their foes Arab troops launched a brazen sortie out of siege towers and kill as many Macedonians Having taken the first of the enemy soldiers with some success and reached the towers with However, when Alexander caught onto what exactly into battle from the front line, crashing This decisive intervention stabilised the the Macedonians, but the king was not going predicted. Quintus Curtius Rufus, always fond of the tells us how one of Batis' hired swords before the king, asking for pardon. Alexander, decided to be magnanimous on this Thus able to get close, the Arab suddenly neck. The plausibility of this can rightfully be do agree on is that, while in the midst of an arrow or ballista bolt smashing into his It was a serious wound and while Alexander he soon lost consciousness due to blood loss. Batis, thinking that his men had killed the the city in triumph. Alexander, meanwhile, was carried back to doctor, Philip, was able to staunch the bleeding While the king recovered from yet another with it finally extending to over 1,000 feet while at the same time, Hephaestion ferried from Tyre to the siege. By the time Alexander had recovered enough months after the king's initial investment With increased firepower, Alexander ordered engines hammering at the walls while sappers Eventually, the walls were breached and the Batis' men resisted determinedly though, taking heavy casualties. Alexander, not yet fully recovered, led the Quintus Curtius Rufus, was wounded yet again Nevertheless, this attack proved to be decisive city. The sources record Persian losses being as civilian population, with the women and children Moreover, Curtius Rufus also reports a particularly According to him, Batis was captured alive, to Alexander. Alexander demanded his surrender, and when a rage and ordered that Batis be tied behind until he was dead. Curtius Rufus did have a particular fondness to note that no other source mentions this to Achilles' treatment of Hector are perhaps It may, therefore, be one of the many rumors Alexander, but it is also worth remembering more forgiving of him and actively avoided Alexander finally crossed into Egypt now that the Nile - Pelusium, in just a week. When he and his army arrived, they were met by a cheering crowd of overjoyed people who After many attempted revolts, the Egyptians rule in 404BC, but were reconquered just 11 The Achaemenid governor Mazaces realised his friendship, granting the king open access From Pelusium Alexander sailed up the Nile Kingdom in the days of its strength. In contrast to the first Achaemenid conqueror the divine Apis, Alexander showed himself The Egyptians welcomed Alexander as their crowned as Pharaoh, he was honored with many and Lower Egypt, Son of Ra and Beloved of Alexander departed Memphis in January of 331, reached Lake Mareotis. There, inspired by the quality of the site that planning and construction efforts on So enthusiastic was Alexander about this new layout of the town and the limit of its defenses That city would, over the next few decades, of the ancient world. While his architects and labourers continued city, Alexander found himself consumed by the god Zeus-Ammon, a combination of the Greek had previously been consulted by king Croesus War, and many other historical giants. It was seen with equal reverence to the oracle The problem was that this oracle resided within miles distant to the west. A crucial stage of the campaign against Persia would be a great boon. Setting out in late January with only a small Ptolemy, Alexander travelled 170 miles west the small settlement of Paraetonium on the There, the adventuring king received a delegation They granted him a number of grandiose gifts concluded a treaty of peace and alliance with The party then continued on their way, turning What followed was a gruelling slog through Libyan Desert. The band's water supplies ran out four days great rainstorm that came just at the right Not content with just dehydrating the Macedonians, as well. Khamsin desert winds picked up, blasting away made Alexander's guides lose their bearings. Finally, almost a month after setting out a flight of birds to the verdant Siwah oasis, While the group remained behind and enjoyed went directly to the temple. What happened next is not clear, thanks to much debated to this day. Arrian, who used sources written by companions from the fact that Alexander, "heard what Diodorus, Justin and Quintus Curitus Rufus, Cleitarchus, write that Alexander was welcomed that he would rule the whole earth and, in all of his father's assassins had been punished. Plutarch, whose sources included Alexander's but also includes the possibility that the by saying "O paidon", meaning "oh my the word to "O paidos" meaning "o son the mistake. The truth of what happened is now impossible Alexander during his own lifetime made masterful was, in some form divine, and all accounts lesser extent. Indeed, whether Alexander even really believed political tool is similarly impossible to However, what can be said with certainty is the idea that he was, and that his visit to After rewarding the Siwah shrine with plentiful city of Alexandria by the route they had come. The first indications of spring were now upon After the relatively simple foray into Egypt, against Darius III. Before the titans locked horns again however, to conclude. Leaving the great work at Alexandria in the architects, Alexander sailed south to Memphis, ancient city's air of quasi-divine Pharaonic The monarch was fawned on by his Egyptian and artists began depicting their new beloved Though it would later become a point of serious willing to indulge Alexander's newfound that it could be exploited for their own ends. Several embassies of Greeks were waiting for which Arrian tells us were generously granted. It is tempting to say that their flattery possible that a mix of success and elation good mood. Beyond mere emotion, Alexander also had a the Greeks more gently at the beginning of As feared, Persian assistance had allowed at home. Throughout Alexander's time in Egypt, Agis stood poised to attack the mainland with a The situation was a volatile tinderbox just to other Greek states seemed likely to make Alexander paid special attention to the governance a plentiful cornucopia and a potential threat. It had presented two primary threats to occupying by disaffected natives and attempts by devious in revolt against the larger empire. The king now set out a number of reforms aiming He separated the Nile kingdom's administration Routine day-to-day bureaucracy remained in gained Alexander the favour of the locals. Not only that, but if those same bureaucrats wouldn't blame him. The traditional geographical division of upper district governor known as a 'nomarch' Geographical divide and rule tactics of this although Greeks were employed rather than The country's eastern and western districts and Apollonius, son of Charinus respectively. Macedonian garrison commanders were also instituted in the delicate, fertile and often revolt-prone With matters of governance finalised, Alexander In the Achaemenid heartland, Darius had been gather a fresh, even more, numerous force This army was made up of a multitude of peoples control, including India, Scythia and Bactria. Predominant among the Persian aristocracy only brought to bear a powerful force, but Ever since his epochal triumph at Issus two reducing every potential center of resistance Syria had been secured and administered, followed But as spring of 331 BC arrived, it was once imperial heartland. The advance would be risky - disconcerting Agis' revolt. All the king could feasibly do at this point was to send a great fleet of 100 ships to cause. Apart from that, putting down the Greek rebels his command. With that considered Alexander again turned army were waiting for him. Following one final bout of administrative Thapsacus - a major link between Syria and He arrived between July and August, but an been present for some time, and managed to ready for the army's use. As a sign of the Macedonian engineers' skill, far bank, preventing any enemy force from be a wise precaution. Observing the invaders' crossing from a cavalry outriders commanded by one of Darius' Arrian seems to imply that Mazaeus' horsemen vastly superior army, but it is more probable to what the Macedonians were doing. There was, realistically, no chance for Mazaeus Having learned from previous defeats, Darius He had done well at Issus to get behind Alexander Nevertheless, the narrow confines of that of his cavalry, the most effective portion Moreover, there were numerous crossing points Darius had no means of determining which ones As a result, he instead decided upon a large Here, he would be able to better use his numerical to dominate the battlefield. Moreover, the flat terrain would also lend Darius had recently added to his army. Darius had learned well that Alexander was complete control of the battlefield. By the time Alexander got near, Darius' Meanwhile, Alexander himself was still crossing of Mazaeus' scouts in the process. It was from these captives that the Macedonians army had taken up a position on the Tigris if they attempted to ford the river. Moreover, estimates of the sheer size of Darius' Upon finally arriving at the upper reaches king and his army found neither Darius nor deceptive intelligence from the captured scout, This was just as well, as, at least according Tigris made the crossing treacherous. Nevertheless, despite these difficulties, with his whole army, taking a few days to The two armies, now on the same side of the another. While Alexander continued pressing on with his left, Darius , at Gaugamela, began the hills, clearing rocks and trees, and employing flat as possible. The Great King was so distracted by this that west. En route, Alexander had two minor encounters but they were easily put to flight. Further prisoners taken in these engagements Gaugamela, by that point only around ten miles Further investigation uncovered the ground-leveling Darius didn't intend to move from this pre-selected his men another substantial rest before the During this short lull, the Persians utilised to turn the Greek soldiers against Alexander One of these letters was intercepted and the to emphasize his trust in them. He was deterred from doing so by the ever-cautious nothing as a crime, not even the murder of Instead, the letter was suppressed and the It was around this same time that Darius made Twice, he had offered substantial sums of for ending the war, now, he offered even more. In order to achieve peace, Darius was prepared dollars today, all the territories West of Empire, as well as one of his daughter's hands It was a staggeringly generous offer that his considerable gains without having to risk that he could return to Greece to deal with If it had been Philip receiving the offer, Parmenion even advised that "If I were Alexander, famously replied "So would I, if I were Alexander's ambitions were greater than he was aiming for the entirety of the Persian willing to gamble everything. While most of the army recuperated in camp, and went to personally scout both the battlefield When he crested the hill overlooking it, Peter second-guessed his earlier bravado about facing For what he saw was an army larger even than More than that, it seemed far superior in of fearsome eastern cavalry. That night, Alexander sat awake in his tent of each Persian unit and considering the potential tactics he could use to gain victory. At some point, Parmenion arrived and suggested stated that he would "Not demean victory Alexander must defeat his enemies openly and But even Arrian, who usually gushes with praise that this haughty response was just a smokescreen. He believed instead that 'these lofty words than vanity.' Rather than the morality of victory, refusal catastrophic night attack was instead simply Pitched battles had worked wonders thus far in the dark. This proved to be a shrewd decision indeed. While the Alexander's men were resting in troops, lacking a camp with fortifications, throughout the night in fear of any surprise Not only did the consequential lack of sleep but waiting hour after hour with nothing to sapping their spirit. Back in the secure Macedonian camp, Alexander of his intricate battle plan and then simply When the sun rose above the horizon on the Alexander did not rise with it. Instead, unconcerned by the gravity of the On their own volition, the various battalions Only when knowledge of Alexander's plan go and rouse the king from his slumber. No doubt curious as to just how the king was Alexander simply responded by saying that had been retreating and laying waste to the was on the cards 'By Heracles, he has done Finally, the Macedonian king and his Persian the great battle for Asia was about to begin. Darius' army was so massive that its flanks margin and outflanking was virtually assured. The Persian left and right wings were commanded the Great King Darius III himself was stationed Having seemingly learnt his lesson from Issus, on the left flank, opposite where Alexander Here, Bessus commanded thousands of cavalry with Sogdians and Arachosians. Additional mounted strength was drawn from frontier who were in military alliance with fighting as cataphracts or horse archers. On the right, Mazaeus had Syrians, Mesopotamians, the center by Parthian and even more Sacae Tapurians, Hyrcanians, Albanians, and Sacesinians Caspian sea formed the link between right The vanguard of Mazaeus' wing was composed Mixed Persian infantry and Greek mercenaries king's personal cavalry, immortals, and Darius' army also included two more exotic First were the Great King's 200 scythed with blades on their wheels tailored to break in his lines. 100 of these chariots were drawn up just to in front of the Indians and next to Mazaeus' Second, were 15 majestic elephants who accompanied not to deploy these in the battle itself, with such unpredictable units. The ancient sources give wildly exaggerated and Plutarch, all claiming it was over 1,000,000. Modern historians, such as Borza, Worthington that they obviously are and tend to agree roughly 30-40,000 of that being cavalry, the Alexander's army, on the other hand, is and historians agreeing on a number of around this gargantuan force. Knowing that he was almost guaranteed to be battle with his flanks angled inward slightly The Companion, Paeonian and allied Greek cavalry by half of both the Agrianians and archers, of the Companions Royal Squadron as a screening Next to this strike force were the hypaspists main phalanx. On the left flank was Thracian and Greek mercenary light cavalry and the formidable Thessalian Lastly, acting as Alexander's reserve, were Command of the left half of the army was entrusted a difficult holding action, while Alexander, would aim to strike the killing blow. Confident in his army's supreme discipline Alexander ordered his entire line to advance ahead of the left. Simultaneously, the king personally took strike to the Persian line as though aiming to outflank forces. At once reacting to this unexpected maneuver, cavalry even further out, always keeping outside This, in turn, dragged units away from the All of a sudden, it became obvious to the to the right, Alexander was attempting to thereby rendering much of Darius' long-planned Regardless of his lacking numbers, Alexander short of the cleared zone. Anxious to avoid fighting on the rough ground, a direct charge against the Macedonian right. This commitment was precisely the move Alexander Keeping his Companion cavalry close by, Alexander allied cavalry to join battle with the ferocious vanguard. The fighting here was brutal, Alexander's with Alexander trickling in reinforcing squadrons To try and support the attack and crush Alexander's to support Bessus aiming for Alexander directly. Alexander's Agrianians and archers had been They intercepted the charge, decimating the and quickly parting ranks, allowing the hypaspists Though the chariots had been easily neutralized, Alexander's cavalry on the right was under cavalry even having made it around to the of army had also been engaged, the extreme the attack. Moreover, all the dust that had been kicked and Parmenion to have a solid understanding flank. At this point, Darius committed the last of extreme right to encircle the Macedonians It was a sound move but, in doing so, it created engaged cavalry on his left. This, was the moment that Alexander had been While his last cavalry reserves were sent his half of the phalanx to attack the Persian Companion cavalry through the gap straight Fierce fighting broke out around the two kings, elite forces. Arrian, often more flattering of Alexander king fled almost instantly, however, this Rufus. In their accounts, the Persian king fought while Alexander and his Companions cut a path killed by a javelin just inches from Darius Realizing now that his section of the battle best to live and fight another day and fled Many of the units around Darius' position still locked in combat, was forced to disengage As Alexander's portion of the army gave and that all that was needed was to catch It was at this moment though, that a messenger was on the brink of destruction. They had been fighting a desperate holding the battle, and when Alexander had ordered the phalanx had become bogged down in fighting, Persian and Indian cavalry had broken through while more cavalry flanked around Parmenion's Faced with the choice of capturing Darius rallying the Companions and smashing into The fighting was not easy, Hephaestion and here, but they were finally able to rout the How many casualties were sustained on either battles, almost impossible to know, with ancient roughly 1,000 while the Persians lost 30,000. While these numbers should be taken with a was Alexander's masterpiece. Against a numerically superior foe who had for the battle, Alexander had won a brilliant His strategy of enticing Darius' entire was ingenious and would be echoed by two other and the Duke of Marlborough at Blenheim. Undeniably, the victory was partly a result well as the talent of his subordinates, most But the turning point of the battle rested the battlefield, his timing, and his personal Alexander had gambled everything on himself, With the defeat of the last of the Great King's had some of the greatest cities in the world It was now time to move east into the great was to be captured, and Alexander could move Following his defeat at Gaugamela, Darius two of Persia's greatest cities, Babylon could sustain the war effort. The main thing Darius needed was time and by two of the wealthiest cities of the Empire Alexander arrived at Babylon around October The city, which had rebelled against Persian him with gifts. Babylon was one of the most impressive cities to a well-deserved month-long rest during Macedonia, and Thrace, including approximately While his men enjoyed the luxuries, wine, administration. Satraps were appointed, mainly Hellenes from one notable exception: the Persian satrap This was the same Mazaeus who had so nearly and was allowed to retain his position as a fight. This, combined with Alexander's partaking of Alexander's companions uneasy. Alexander had professed to be invading Persia Greeks: appointing Persians and taking part of that agenda. This attempt to blend Eastern and Hellenic in Alexander's life from this point onwards. From Babylon, Alexander marched the 200 miles Following Gaugamela, he had already sent men once again the city was taken without a fight, worth of gold and silver. Back in Greece, Agis III of Sparta's revolt to send a large amount of money back to Macedonia as well making sure to pay his own troops With the funds provided by Alexander, and Antipater now turned his attention to the Agis had attempted to stir up many of the However, even Demosthenes, the long-term rival Macedonian hegemony was too powerful: Agis of allies from the Peloponnese on their side. The Persians had also only been able to fund but this nevertheless had been enough to raise Included in these ranks were 8,000 Greek mercenaries providing Agis with a well-trained and disciplined He had already achieved a minor victory over so had good cause to be confident as he laid to the Macedonians. Antipater, however, was not an easy foe: he served for many years under Philip prior to He now amassed a force of 40,000 and marched a narrow plain just outside Megalopolis. Details about the battle are, unfortunately, What we do know is that the battle was closely allowing the Spartans to hold out for a remarkably 2:1 and at one point even managing to break Just as the battle seemed to be turning in badly wounded a number of times and was carried His men continued to fight, but without their Antipater's force was finally able to break The Spartan army retreated, taking the wounded Agis knew that his wounds were fatal however, On his knees, Agis is said to have fought to escape, before finally being killed by By the end of the day, the Spartan army had Macedonians. The defeat and death of Agis put an end to homage to Alexander in the aftermath. It had been an important battle that could if Antipater had lost, but when Alexander as a battle between mice. Alexander did not spend long in Susa, though. Darius was still his priority and so, rather headed to the Zagros Mountains. The Zagros Mountains were in the territory The Persians had never been able to completely where the Persians paid a fee to the Uxians in return for which the Uxians would not bother When Alexander approached, the Uxians similarly Alexander seemed to agree to this, sending to pay the tax. Precisely what happened next is not clear, According to Arrian, after sending the messengers from Susa about a pass around the defile and 8,000 infantry along this path. He fell upon some Uxian villages in the night, flee into the mountains. Alexander then split his force, sending some while Alexander took his portion of the army it before the Uxians. From this commanding position, Alexander was to flee to the high ground but were ambushed Quintus Curtius Rufus, however, gives a very He claims that Alexander sent a force of 2,500 to take the path around the Uxians position. Alexander, meanwhile, led the main force in Siege towers were built, and the Uxians inflicted position. Alexander kept up the attacks, however, until at which point they surrendered. The two accounts have enough similarities but they seem almost impossible to reconcile. In general, Arrian's history was better accounts. His work undoubtedly has flaws, often overlooking and assuming some of the biases of the eye-witness reliable when it comes to military affairs. In comparison, Rufus' has only one source and was generally considered by the ancients historian. Rufus did use other sources as well, but his of Alexander than the military details. As such, Arrian's version is generally the Whichever version is favored though, the outcome The Uxians sued for peace, sending messages Alexander agreed, enforcing a yearly tribute then pressing on into Persis, the heart of Before crossing the mountains into Persis, Parmenion would take the less direct, but Greek allies and other mercenaries along with Alexander, meanwhile, would lead the main and archers, approximately 14,000-20,000 men, for the Persian ceremonial capital of Persepolis. Unbeknownst to Alexander, a Persian force of Gaugamela, had built a makeshift wall across as the Persian Gate, and was waiting for him. The exact size of Ariobarzanes' army is Ancient sources give Ariobarzanes numbers with a few hundred cavalry, while some modern The number of 40,000 is likely exaggerated, Persian numbers, but the number of 700 is In order to arrive at such a low number, one the ancient sources entirely, and assume that total military power to defend the capital. Leading experts on Alexander, such as Heckel, that the ancient sources which claim 40,000 that give their numbers as, at maximum, 25,000. Alexander's force passed through the narrow by the wall. Suddenly, Ariboarzanes men attacked the Macedonian ranks with a mix of missile fire and rocks. The Macedonians took severe casualties in it almost impossible for Alexander's men As more of his men were killed or wounded, The narrow pass made such a withdrawal difficult by arrows and javelins from the Persians. Finally, though, Alexander's force managed a camp. While encamped, Alexander had any Persian to him, and questioned about any other routes One of these prisoners had been a shepherd agreed to show Alexander a path around Arizobarnes Taking the majority of the army with himself, with approximately 3,000 infantry, 500 cavalry light extra fires at night to make it appear Alexander's force departed in the night. It was still mid-winter, and the mountain difficult journey. Part way through, Alexander came to a split directly to Ariobarzanes position, the other Persian camp. Alexander ordered Philotas and 3,000 men to force along the second path around the Persian After a day and two nights of grueling marching, After resting his men, Alexander began the trumpets as he did so. At this signal, the forces of Craterus and found themselves attacked on three sides. Ariobarzanes' men fought back bravely and surrounded. It soon became clear, however, that the battle cavalry, were able to cut their way out of The rest of the Persian force was cut down It is not exactly clear how long Ariobarzanes but some modern sources suggest it had been The amount of casualties the Macedonians took seems clear that they were significant. Though Ariobarzanes had fought bravely, his Arrian says he simply escaped into the hills, but found the gates barred to him, and was Despite the losses and delay, however, Alexander and the route to Persepolis now lay open to The governor of Persepolis sent messages to been destroyed, offered to turn the city over En route to the city, a number of sources a group of Greeks on the road, usually given mutilated. They had all apparently been skilled craftsmen, order to prevent them from escaping. Moved to pity at the sight of them, Alexander to all of them, ensuring that they would live How true or not this story is, is hard to Alexander certainly was known as a generous given the later actions of Alexander and his Greeks were an invention of pro-Alexander Upon entering Persepolis, sometime in January Persian treasury of 120,000 talents, sending Persepolis was one of the richest and most and many of Alexander's men took to looting Whether this was on Alexander's orders, Arrian is silent on the issue, but Diodorus According to them, looting was ordered by proceeded to kill many civilians, with some The Macedonians spent an entire day looting one another in order to get the most, and Alexander himself celebrated his winning of palaces of the Persian kings with his Companions Diodorus, Plutarch, and Rufus all claim that courtesan, called Thais, proposed that they out how ironic it would be for an Athenian they had burned Athens 150 years earlier. The drunk Macedonians welcomed the suggestion himself, burned the renowned palaces of Persepolis. A slightly different account is given by Arrian, drunk, instead saying that Alexander burnt for the burning of Athens. It is possible that Thais was simply being whose destruction of Thebes had already shown great cities to make a political statement. What is clear from all the sources, however, Arrian says that it was, in essence, simply because he was effectively burning what was Plutarch includes a hasty apologia that Alexander to be put out. Diodorus says that it was done by Alexander Rufus' account is perhaps the most poignant: entire Orient, from which so many nations so many kings, once the special terror of followed its destruction did it rise again". Rufus was exaggerating somewhat, much of the on the palaces and surrounding buildings, how ancient authors viewed the episode: it Alexander spent approximately four months this time making a 30-day excursion to Pasargadae, Sometime around May, the Macedonian king continued Darius, who had been in Ecbatana, heard of Though Darius had been planning to amass a thus far been unsuccessful and so, with a to retreat further into the Eastern provinces Alexander, in turn, sent Parmenion and the to seize the now abandoned Ecbatana, while of Darius. His plan, initially, was to catch Darius before passes in the Alborz Mountains that led from Alexander led his men on a grueling 10 day enduring their dehydration and suffering alongside Despite their efforts though, upon reaching already passed through them. Alexander allowed his men a few days of rest, towards Parthia. The speed of Alexander's march was having In Darius' camp, more and more of his remaining him. Led primarily by Bessus, the satrap of Bactria, Some in the army remained loyal, notably the a man named Patron, and Artabazos. Nevertheless, the cracks were clear; Bessus' Bessus king instead, on the understanding defeating Alexander, an offer Darius, understandably, Patron tried to convince Darius to accept Darius refused not wanting to seem like he Eventually, Darius accepted his fate. He dismissed his servants and inner circle, by another's crime rather than my own". He then waited in his tent, and was promptly chains. Bessus, a part of the Achaemenid dynasty himself, V. The Greek mercenaries and others who had been troops continuing under Bessus' command. Word of Darius' capture soon reached Alexander Alexander immediately picked 500 of his best They rode at breakneck pace for a day and they had closed in on Bessus' party. Bessus' force, having been on a continuous was in no position to fight, and many fled Bactrians among them. Before he fled however, Bessus made sure that to Alexander, ordering him to be killed. A small skirmish was fought between Alexander a search for Darius began. He was soon found by one of Alexander's The Great King had been stabbed by javelins He asked for water, and after drinking thanked asked that Alexander be thanked for treating By the time that Alexander arrived on the Alexander ordered that his body be transported funeral and was buried alongside the other Darius III is often seen by many as having This is thanks largely to a passage of Arrian in military matters, a view that, for a while, More recently though, this idea has been challenged, In terms of his personal bravery, Justin and for his courage, having in his youth killed Indeed, it was partly because of his bravery The fact that at both Issus and Gaugamela, than delegating to a subordinate is a further Though he retreated in each battle, the sources were looking disastrous. At Issus, for instance, the horses pulling leaving him stranded, and at Gaugamela, his wounded. In terms of military matters, while there genius, he was not utterly incompetent. Darius was forced to take to the field after a few months had amassed a significant army of logistics. At Issus, Darius had actually managed to get line and forcing a battle. Moreover, he had chosen a reasonable battlefield albeit at the cost of not giving his cavalry But Darius learned from the mistake and picked at Gaugamela where he would be able to best cavalry. Prior to battle, he also made sure to drill On both occasions, he was outmatched by Alexander. However, being defeated by one of history's It is also worth pointing out that, at Gaugamela a gap in the Macedonian line and almost crush The battle was only won because of Alexander's may well have been victorious against a lesser Darius' fleeing from both battles is often However, it is worth pointing out that on best strategic decision. If Darius had died or been captured at Issus, have been easily able to proclaim himself Darius' survival from both battles was crucial resistance to the invaders. As a result, it is perhaps better to treat The death of Darius III marks the end of the The apparent goal of the campaign, the destruction achieved. However, if there is one aspect of Alexander is that he was relentlessly ambitious. As a young boy, Aristotle had taught Alexander East and the great Ocean that lay that way. Already, he was making plans for the next Why stick to the confines of the borders of his grasp? Our next episode will deal with Alexander's as well as his route back to his capital, These long episodes are difficult to make, sharing, subscribing and pressing the bell Recently we have started releasing weekly consider joining their ranks via the link to watch these weekly videos, learn about access our private discord, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and