In this video we are going to start building the concrete foundation on the top of the old stone walls so that that it is ready to rebuild our barn. We are going to fix up the smallest chickencoop and we are fixing our roads after all the record braking downpour we have had lately. For those that are new here my name is Eirik. Me and my wife bout this on hundred-year-old farm on the west side of Norway 10 years ago. Me and my wife bout this on hundred-year-old farm on the west side of Norway 10 years ago. It was left in a bad state The buildings were crumbling away, the fields had turned in to marshland and the once so magnificent stone and wood barn had completely collapse. We have slowly been restoring this farm and now we have taken on our binges project so far. We are going to rebuild this barn. This is Norwegian farm life. Last mount we build the framework to make a new concrete base for the new building on the top of the old stone walls. The race is on to finish the foundation before the frost comes and makes it impossible to pour concrete until next spring. Before we pour any concrete in this form, we need to straiten the bords a bit. I will also build up the wall a bit using some of the leftover stones and save some concrete. . I have been wondering how to keep the concrete in the forms. The answer I came up with is construction foam. Let's see if this work. While looking for the concrete mixer I found this strange creature hanging next to the basement door. It turned out to be a bat. In hindsight this first mix was a bit dry. . The next day we woke up to about 30 degrees Celsius. It felt like summer had returned but nature is telling a different story. Since we are not going to attempt any more hay making this year, I am letting the sheep in to this field. Thy can eat the rest of the grass and clean the fence lines. Las mount we got a new cat. Here name is Dora. My wife is letting here out to get to know the farm a bit. We don't want here to rome freely before we have had a chance to sterilize here. Our old cat jasmine is not too happy about the new cat. These panels came with our barbecue hut. We did not need them for our set up so they have just been in the way. Let's see if they can be of some use in the barn. Jasmin hates the new cat so much that she refuses to go in to the house. Hopefully with some time they will become friends. This will be much better. Now it will be easier to keep the tools out of the mud. It's a new day and the whether are fantastic. We have several bags of chicken feed that we need to pour in to barrels so the mice don't get to them. This building is a complete nightmare at the moment as we have filed it with stuff up to the ceiling. We desperately need more room so I cannot wait to the barn is finished. I was planning on filing this form with concrete now but it started to rain. I also thing am a bit short on concrete so we need to find something ales to do. . It has been raining so much the last mount so the area outside the door of the small chicken coop has turned in to a mud puddle. . That is really inconvenient when we feed them so let's fix it. The outside area of this coop is mostly mud by now and it smells bad. We need to do something about it so I am letting them out so I can work. We need to reattach this perch and make it a bit stronger. I don't thing I want to eat this egg as I have no ide how long it has been here. I am just going to borrow some sand from the kids. My original plan was to by concrete whenever we were passing the hardware shop but I did not take in to account how much we would need and how little we can get in the car due to the high weight of each bag so we have ordered a truckload. Now we just need to clear some room. Our road also looks really bad due to all the rain so we need to fix it before the truck comes. One of the things I truly love is to sit down with my family and enjoy a cup of coffee after work. As idyllic as moment was life is not a straight line but has twists and turns. After I had stopped recording and put the camera away my daughter fell over on the slide and had an epileptic seizure. It has happened before and it will probably happen again as it is a part of here rare genetic condition. Our videos are filed with beautiful nature in a tranquil environment but only focusing on that would give a false picture as all though our lives are filed with happiness and beauty, we also experience sorrow and hardship. In the end all we can do is to enjoy the good parts and endure the bad. That is the price of being alive. Later that evening the concrete arrived. I calculated that we would need about 2.1 ton so lets just hope that I have calculated correct. . I decided some time ago to not let the rain hinder me from going out to work but this is getting ridiculous. . It's a new day and the forecast has promised nice weather. Let's see if they can be trusted. The forecast lied. It's a beautiful morning but it is cold. The temperature has not hit freezing yet but it is close. This stresses me out a bit. If I cannot finish the concrete work before the frost comes it will be to late and there will be no building this winter so let's get on with it. Sems like I only have some small pieces left of rebar. Of to the hardware store. My old measuring tape have seen better days so it is a good thing then that Cigman wanted to send us their new laser distance meter CD-120M. This comes with a handy carrier case, a charging cable, a reflective card and a manual. Let's put it to the test. This instrument has a green laser and that is preferred as they are supposed to be easier to see. I have borrowed another instrument from a friend so let's try it in the worst possible condition direct sunlight. To be honest I cannot se that much difference. The problem with these is often to see the laser dot at a distance and that is where the CD-120M has a trick up its sleeve. It has a zoom camera that shows you what you are pointing at. When I discovered that I stopped looking for the laserdot because it is so much easier to just look at the screen. This instrument has a 120 meters range. . Let's see if it can tell us the distance to the pig house. No problem. So, what am I going to use this for? Although there use to be a barn here most if it is gone and that means that we need to apply for a building perming from scratch. That means measuring up the distance in the terrain, distance to other buildings, distance to borders and of course making an engineering drawing of the new building. In other words, we are going to use this instrument a hole lot. If you want to check out the CD-120M for yourself. Links are in the decryption. Thank you Cigman for sending us this product. It's a long way down so I want some extra security. We are nearing the end of the month and therefore the end of this video. If you want to continue to follow our progress on this old barn and the rest of our projects hit that subscribe button It is completely free. If you want to look at another of our videos take a look at this one next. We will be seeing you on our next video. By for now.