Some time around the year 1200 B.C.E., human Within the short span one generation, the civilizations faced an existential crisis. Nearly all of them failed the test. The resulting collapse was a turning point collapse of the Roman Empire. The old world died, and the Bronze Age died The odd thing is that we barely understand There are a bunch of theories, but nothing We'll get into that in a moment, but first, When the Bronze Age began in Western Asia, city-states ruled by an oppressive class of The new world that came after was one full Vast, sweeping empires grew up seemingly out New religions, new systems of government, all at a breakneck pace. Revolutions in farming lead to massive food huge, bustling, multicultural cities. These new cities participated in dynamic system cloistered city-states that preceded them. By the Late Bronze Age, the big players were Empire, Assyria, and Babylonia. Each of these states, without exception, faced B.C.E. Within a generation, most of them were gone. Here's what we know. Some time around the beginning of the 12th Hittite Empire, wrote a letter to the King &quot;My father, now the ships of the enemy have They have been setting fire to my cities and Doesn't my father know that all of my infantry that all of my ships are stationed in the Khatte was another name for the Hittite capital, Lukka was several hundred kilometers to the &quot;They have not arrived back yet, so the land Defenseless. &quot;May my father be aware of this matter. Now the seven ships of the enemy which have Now if other ships of the enemy turn up, send The Hittites promised to send King of Ugarit The last known letter to leave Ugarit reads, humiliated and the city was sacked. Our food in the threshing floors was burnt, Our city is sacked. May you know it! May you know it!&quot; The King of Cyprus was well aware of what But he had problems of his own. Cyprus was under attack at around the same Several larger cities, especially on the western cities further inland were simply abandoned. Wealthy residents buried their valuables, over. They never returned. Things were different in Greece. For the last hundred years, the Mycenaeans There are signs of destruction everywhere. The ruins of these cities leave evidence of weapons, which paints a pretty clear picture were ultimately defeated. Other cities leave evidence of smaller fires the center of the cities. This indicates some kind of popular uprising just in one city by in many cities. Still, other cities show signs of being abandoned, or both. On the whole, the picture is fuzzy, but it's It was even worse in Anatolia, the homeland Archeological evidence suggests that every partially destroyed during this period. This was especially true up and down the coast. In fact, we now know that the city of Troy Recent archeological digs there have found of the city, and evidence of a fire. Further inland, things get a little more mysterious. The Hittite capital, which only a few years of Ugarit's army, was largely abandoned. It would later be stormed and burned just For a long time this abrupt region-wide collapse Historians knew that it happened, but they But in the second half of the 19th century, a hair-raising and revolutionary explanation This inscription was discovered in an Egyptian It changed our understanding of the Late Bronze Egyptian Pharaoh Ramses III describes several shores of Egypt over the course of 30 years. The inscription at Medinet Habu reads: &quot;the islands. All at once the lands were removed and scattered No land could stand before their arms.&quot; [...] &quot;They were coming forward toward Egypt, [...] &quot;They laid their hands on the land as confident and trusting: 'Our plans will succeed!'&quot; The Egyptians had some guesses as to who these Historians have simply taken to calling them We now think that the Sea Peoples were loose We can't be 100% sure of this, but we can were from Sicily, Sardinia, Crete, and the Maybe some other places too. Some wore feathered headdresses, while others Some wore kilts, while others wore tunics. Some went into battle wearing full body-armour, What united these groups was their reason This was a migration. We know that they came on boats and on wagons possessions. What brought them here is another question By the time the Sea Peoples finally arrived Age civilization had been overrun. The Mycenaeans in Greece, the Hittites in Cyprus, all gone. Some states further inland were less affected by the collapse of their neighbours that their When the Sea Peoples began their migration, have been this successful. All the way up until Egypt, every attempt Why? In order to understand this, we need to talk Chariots. Chariots chariots chariots. Bronze Age warfare in Western Asia was all In the Early Bronze Age they were primarily Bronze Age the militaries of every major state the use of the chariot. A chariot in this period usually consisted two humans, one driver and one archer. The humans, I mean. The horses and the driver were trained for could move roughly twice as fast as a human The archer wielded a composite bow. Not as clumsy or random as a regular bow, range, and firepower. It was a state-of-the-art piece of technology. In this period it could punch through 3 inches So a full chariot team had everyone else beat This is a bit of a tangent but it's said that in the year 1906, every other ship in the The HMS Dreadnought was the best in the world which meant that it could just sit back and outrun anybody who came too close. Like the Dreadnought, Bronze Age chariots Like the Dreadnought, they could just sit Like the Dreadnought, they could outrun anybody An experienced group of chariots were capable This revolutionized Bronze Age warfare. But they were expensive as hell. Horses had to be specifically bred and trained, The equipment was all hand-crafted by artisans, did. The loss of a single chariot was catastrophic, of inexpensive spearmen and archers deployed The infantry could protect friendly chariots could rush forward and destroy enemy chariots As we get into the Late Bronze Age, the region And then the Sea Peoples came. Unlike the Bronze Age civilizations of Western Instead of using spearmen and archers to form Sea Peoples wielded longswords and javelins, I've seen the Sea Peoples described as skirmishers, A much better word that I've seen used is The Sea Peoples were runners. They were highly mobile, and weren't locked were. Instead, their way of fighting was to explode This fact made the Sea Peoples chariot-killers. The whole reasons chariots were effective But was the same true of 10 people? 100 people? What if they were coming at them from different What if they got cut off from the main group? Chariots couldn't exactly turn on a dime, runners to overwhelm and destroy a chariot. And like I said, the loss of a single chariot The defensive line of spearmen and archers like this, but in practice the highly mobile lines quite easily. As a response to these new tactics, defensive It appears that by the end of this period, were ten times larger than they were at the As I said before, towards the end of this standing. Virtually all of its neighbours had fallen The inscription at Medinet Habu depicts the mouth of the Nile. Look at how the inscription emphasizes how Here's a row of spearmen, and then a row of personally leading the battle, standing on And then of course here's the mighty chariot, role in the battle. Clearly the bulk of the fighting was among In writing we are told that the Egyptians a wall out of ships, each loaded with archers. We're also told that every spearman in Egypt to landed on shore. The inscription at Medinet Habu tells us the Here are some Sea Peoples taken captive and Here is some unspeakable carnage. Of course this is a piece of Egyptian propaganda, the result. After so many incredible successes, the Sea But even in victory, Egypt suffered. From this moment forward Egypt was a second-rate had not yet fully recovered. The fact that Egypt was so badly damaged by There has to be more to the story than the Scholars have been pulling at this thread is convincing. Bronze Age civilizations needed bronze. Obviously. Without a constant supply, many of their cutting-edge Bronze is made by combining 9 parts copper Copper is a relatively common metal, but it's Most of these Bronze Age civilizations ran real action was in Cyprus. Cyprus was absolutely swimming in copper, This transformed the island into a fabulously That brings us to tin. Tin is funny, because it's actually extremely the Earth. There was a tiny tin mine in Anatolia, controlled enough to supply the entire region. After that, there weren't that many options. The next closest major source was all the 3,000 kilometers away. You can just imagine how expensive and dangerous to Cyprus. There were alternative sources, but it was There was a smaller mine in Italy, and another meet demand. There wasn't another deposit on the scale the way to Cornwall on the Island of Britain. It might shock you to learn that people actually It was a risky voyage, but if you made it So as you can see, any disruption in this for Bronze Age civilizations to produce bronze. Which by very definition was a problem. So the argument goes that the Sea Peoples down the production of bronze, and weakened It was a vicious cycle. More attacks meant less trade. Less trade made everybody even more vulnerable As the Bronze Age states collapsed, the situation But there might have been more to this story. Even if you put the whole international trade have been much weaker than it seemed. According to experts, the migration of the where Western Asia was riddled with massive I'm no scientist, but that seems bad. It's possible that these earthquakes were Some of the cities that were abandoned for after a seismic event. There's at least some evidence of earthquakes Levant, and Cyprus. Greece seems to have got the worst of it. Egypt got off easy, which is an interesting state left standing. Maybe the earthquakes played a role. So what brought the Sea Peoples here? For a long time, scholars guessed that some domino effect of southward migrations, culminating across the Mediterranean Sea. This always made sense on paper, but there Until now. We now know that around this time there was It turns out that, as predicted, northern have caused that domino effect. But the surprising thing is that the effects We now have ancient pollen samples from northern event&quot; lasting for 300 years, beginning just Pollen samples have also been taken from Cyprus, These samples indicate that environmental was no longer enough rainfall to sustain even This would have been catastrophic. It may explain why some of the cities were Similar things have been found in the Levant, In fact, in Greece there's evidence that over to survive a desert-like environment. Some of the letters we find in the city of Apparently during one of the invasions there Empire. One letter to from the Hittite King to the grain, ending with &quot;it is a matter of life There's another letter from the nearby city It reads, &quot;there is famine in [our] house; If you do not quickly arrive here, we ourselves You will not see a living soul from your land.&quot; If these reports of an environmental emergency Age civilizations may have been in a state The best current analysis of the Bronze Age Systems Collapse Theory. According to the Systems Collapse Theory, a medium level threat. Under normal circumstances, the Bronze Age them off. But they weren't living under normal circumstances. Changes to the climate had resulted in widespread This resulted in the depopulation of key cities. The famine and the depopulation then lead populations rose up and overthrew their ruling We have evidence that this happened with some Greece. These factors and the Sea Peoples invasions system, which just made everything all the Oh yeah, and the region was absolutely riddled The Bronze Age civilizations in Western Asia crisis creating a multiplier effect for all And then the Sea Peoples came. We still don't fully understand how or why we never will, but the Systems Collapse Theory One thing that I will point out though is pollen samples and studying ancient seismology, de-emphasize the destruction wrought upon The fact that countless cities were destroyed We have the physical evidence. The Systems Collapse Theory argues that less than originally thought. And this might be right! We have all that evidence of environmental But we don't know for sure. Scholarship in this area is ongoing. There have been significant breakthroughs We may see some definitive answers in our But for now, we don't know. We see the aftermath of the Bronze Age collapse, have are theories. Upon closer examination, I think these guys somebody's foot. Nasty!