Ms. Yun Qian Confirm one last time Are you sure you want to have an abortion? I am sure Where is the child's father? Does he agree? He doesn't care He cares Only the white moonlight that I have loved for 7 years And the child he gave birth to with sperm donated to Bai Yueguang Today is my and He Ran's second wedding anniversary Treat this child as a surprise He should care about me more, right? Start in high school I have been chasing He Ran for 7 years Finally, he broke up with Bai Yueguang Xu Yingying Finally, he was willing to marry me. Hello The phone you dialed is powered off Thank you my dear brother He Ran lent me a piece of gold when I was most helpless I can finally have my own baby So you didn't come back for our anniversary It's for your white moonlight to donate money to have a child What are our children? congratulations Little Star Are you okay? Sister He Ranping She posted this circle of friends Is she mad at me? It's okay. Let me handle it. Hey go Hey, slow down. Cloud Light I just borrowed some gold and silver. Do you need to make a fuss? He feels guilty now. What if you disturbed his fetus? Yes Yes I'm making a mountain out of a molehill You used to say you didn't like children. After being married for several years, he rarely touches me I was the one who pestered you for two months to get you pregnant. I thought you prepared this because you knew I was pregnant. I'm overthinking. It's not the children you disliked from the beginning to the end It's me and your child. It's time to divorce Sorry kid. I can't have you anymore A father who is not loved even by me, his mother How could I possibly love you? Wife Wife There's really nothing between me and him. This time I'm borrowing money. Just to help him fulfill his wish. Yingying likes children very much I promise you Wait until he has the baby. I'll cut off all ties with him. This is the first time you've recorded me in all these years. Um knew I'm already like this What do you want from me? Don't you forget It was you who said you didn't mind my country Want to live a good life with me Please be like a poisonous woman I tell you I could have kept it a secret from you. I tell you this out of respect for you He disappointed me In your eyes, apologizing to me is a compliment to me. Give me face If I don't forgive Du Fu The reason why you treat me like this It's all because of my love for you I deserve all this. Sorry, the child is the mother. Useless Give money You are following us Oh, why is Aya Yunqing following us? We are both open and honest Yunqing won't think wrongly. Right? What does your and your wife's prenatal checkup have to do with me? I follow what you do. What nonsense are you talking about? I have always regarded Yingying as my sister. You are defaming her reputation by saying this. What do you want to do? oops Why did you start it? Yun Qian didn't mean that. Sister Ning Where did Sister Ning and the other girl fall? Where are you feeling uncomfortable? Come slowly. I'm fine My stomach hurts a bit. Please remember this for me If anything happens to Sister Lingling and her child I won't let go Walk Take you to see My husband Abandon me without caring But he left with another woman in his arms My choice was indeed right Let's raise a toast together Celebrating the successful birth of the love child of A-ran and Ying-ying Let's raise a toast together Celebrating the successful birth of the love child of A-ran and Ying-ying Congratulations on coming to sit down You guys talk first I'm going to the bathroom. Hey Uncle Zhang You are really stubborn. I actually thought of using this method. Who made the goddess' husband incompetent? I can't have a baby. Doesn't this mean that Alan has finally gotten the beauty? Hahaha Don't talk nonsense. Sister Yingying is married This is not good for Sister Yingying's reputation. You guys are making a fuss Your sister-in-law heard it. You want to divorce me? What the hell? This kind of petty woman Better to leave Hey, actually you have been with Sister Yingying for so long We brothers can see it. You can't let go. Yun Qian and I have been married for more than two years He has been running this family silently. Even if there is no merit, there is still hard work How can I give up? Why are you still as hypocritical as ever? Our marriage means to you It's just your charity. Hey, look, Yingying posted on WeChat Moments Sometimes a man who loves himself This back figure doesn't look like her husband. Ouch Isn't this Aran? It seems you are not the only one Sister Yunyun can't let go either Of course, seriously. Such a good opportunity Why don't you just go with the flow and get a divorce? Then What are you talking about? Ah, nothing nothing Just to advise some people. Follow your heart Get rid of the dark and join the light as soon as possible That's right. Leaving soon It's hard for you Why have you been worrying about this for so many years? Sister Yunqian is not what you think You heard it all I'm sorry. Sorry to bother you guys with your celebration? Yunqian and the others were just joking Don't take it to heart I'm used to it They are right. Whose child are you carrying now? You are more like the hostess of this house. I'm just an outsider messing around. What nonsense are you talking about? They don't mean that. Yes, sister-in-law We're just talking Don't take it to heart. That's enough. You thought I was unworthy from the beginning. He Ran thinks I am not as pretty as Xu Yingying Not as feminine as her Not as considerate as her Anyway, in your eyes I can't compare to her in anything Isn't it Sister Yun? You are serious. You are A-ran's legal wife. How can I compare with you? This child is also because A Ran feels sorry for me He just helped me Yunjie Aran Hurry up and comfort Lin Qian Just make do with the day. Why do you have to compare yourself with him? I just donated some money Gave birth to a child Is it necessary? yes There's really no need now. Just understand the situation Go back to your room now. Let's get divorced say what Let's get divorced What did you say You are free You can follow your heart now Be with someone you truly love I wish you and your family of three happiness. Lin Qian, don't be impulsive Divorce is not an easy matter Ah Ran, he still has you in his heart You don't have to be like this So you are threatening me with divorce Threaten you I already said This loan matter Just to help Yingying After she gave birth to the child I promise you to break up with him. I promise to wait until I give birth to this baby I promise to keep my distance from An Ran I will never bother you again. Yunquan, I have something to say about this. Just donate some gold It's not like there was a real relationship Why be so petty? yes Yingying and Alan have known each other for much longer than you You keep them at a distance That's too much. Yuqian I'm not saying you A-ran is already giving you face by marrying you It's a pity that A'ran was praising you just now Even if you have no merit, you have worked hard. That's how you treat A-ran. Why are you still standing there? Go back to your room and you're not embarrassed enough. He Ran I was wrong. I shouldn't have fallen in love with you I shouldn't have been pestering you for seven years. You shouldn't think you have a child. I can save your heart Now I have to suffer such an insult at such a dessert. I deserve it. child What child Am I really leaving? Marriage, you'll know after looking at this Abortion surgery Like a cicada You aborted our child for a piece of gold When did you get pregnant? Why didn't you tell me Because in your heart there is only her and her child Isn't it? A child destined to be neglected and ignored Why should I give birth? Suffering the same pain as me The child is gone, so be it. Stop making trouble The child is gone, so be it. He Ran I didn't misjudge you. For you My child and I are dispensable What nonsense are you talking about? We have been married for two years How can it be dispensable? We were wrong today. I'll ask Lao Tan and the others to apologize to you. Stop making trouble. I'm really tired Between you and Yingying I don't know who to choose Not sure what to do choose So many years When did you choose not him? Wedding Day You chose to leave me behind to comfort him who was arguing with my husband. Wedding Anniversary You chose to abandon me again Go to accompany him who is afraid of thunder My birthday You went to celebrate Xu Yingying's promotion and salary increase All holiday and anniversary gifts are double One for him Give me one This is what you call ridiculous fairness Okay, don't you want to apologize? Come on then Come on then Lao Tan Apologize to Yun Qian Yun Qian, I will punish myself with a drink first. Ming Qian, what about me? Speak without thinking Don't see outside Actually, I never looked down on you. I also feel that you have never been worthy of my brother. But there is no way Who made me have a brother like He Ran? Since he still wants to live with you Then I sincerely apologize to you for him. It's really hard for you. I'll give you another drink. I said the wrong thing just now. Sorry, we too Sorry, sorry. Yunqian and the others have sincerely apologized to you. Is this okay? Sincere apology Are you deaf? Anyway They've already apologized. This is already giving you face. What do you want? Well, I really want to thank you. If I don't forgive Should I be called petty again? Making a mountain out of a molehill You are unreasonable It's all because of me It's all because of me Only big guys are like this Sister, what are you saying? What's your fault? Yun Qian I'm telling you too sorry It's all because I, A-ran, have too deep feelings for me. You've been wronged Sister, you are right. You don't need to apologize. I apologize to you I didn't handle this matter correctly It doesn't matter There should be another person who wants to hear you apologize to him. Hello I am Yun Qian He Ran's ex-wife What can I do for you? Your wife Xu Yunyi is at my house now I think there are some things you need to know What does it mean? 11 You are pregnant with He Ran's child Your domestic violence husband knows Will it give birth to you? husband Xu Yingying I want you to die Husband, why are you here? How do I Then we have to see What good things have you done behind my back? Hello I am Yun Qian He Ran's ex-wife What can I do for you? Your wife Xu Yingying is at my house now I think there are some things you need to know I invited Don't you want to apologize? You should talk to your husband. What did you do behind his back? Yu Qian, you are crazy How did you get him? Stop talking nonsense Come on, apologizing to me is not enough Your husband has the right to know. You two, explain it carefully. Why do we need to ask acquaintances to donate money? ha wrong Not an acquaintance Let me introduce These two were lovers who had been in love for many years. Each other's white moonlight Husband, listen to my explanation It's not what you think. What do you think? You lied to me like this Is it interesting? You mean artificial donation? So it's about having a child with your first love. Sister Yingying, are you okay? Zhang Ling I did this wrong. I shouldn't have agreed to Yingying's request to thank her for being a gentleman. But you shouldn't hit her. If you want to hit me, hit me. What a pair of dogs. You slept with him for so many years before, isn't that enough? You still want me to raise your children? Chu Ling, what you said is wrong Sister Yingying is your wife after all. I just lent her a surprise. It's not cheating Fuck you You know she's my wife. Did you hear that? For both of them Just having a baby Not cheating Shut up oops This isn't cheating. When he is afraid of thunder, does he ask you to accompany him? When he's angry with me, do you come to accompany him? You're almost like my second husband. Why do you hit him? Blame yourself It's useless. I can't have a baby. Can't you find someone else? I have to find him to disgust me Why would I want to have a baby with a stranger? I just want to find someone I love. You finally admitted it I've had enough of this show. Go back to my parents' house. I'll send you the divorce agreement later. Do you remember to sign If you leave Don't regret it. regret He Ran I want to thank you Thank you for your shamelessness this time Let me finally wake up I will only live better without you Oh my stomach Oh my belly Qinqin, what's going on? Why did you hit the child? Still want a divorce He Ran donated money to his ex-girlfriend Pregnant with a child How could he do such a shameless thing? Li Dahao Silly Child I'm telling you this man is unreliable You chased him for 7 years. It's not easy to be together Your parents didn't stop you. dad mom I was wrong Aunt Kitchen gas repair Okay, I Aunt Kitchen gas repaired me Well Thank you for your hard work, sunny or rainy Auntie is real Oh, it's okay. Aunt Chen, if you have anything to say, please talk first. I'll leave first. I'll come see you next time when I'm free. Um Xiaoqin, I'll take you there. Oh well Dad, you've worked hard. mom Is this the repairman you asked for? What repairman? Don't you recognize him? He is Qin Yu My best friend's son Qianqian calls Qingyu brother It's him He seems different. The temperament is different He is now The richest man in Yuncheng President of Qin Group Hey, Qin Yu is a sensible and filial child. He's the president now. He often comes to visit me and your dad. She even did this and that to me. If you weren't so focused on He Ran I will feel at ease only if I leave you to Qin Yu What did mom say? Qin Yu is now of such a noble status How can I deserve it? I just got divorced I don't have the heart to think about these things Uncle will be here to pick me up soon. Just send it here. Okay, then you should be careful. Okay, thanks uncle. Hello, President He is divorced Let the lady prepare I want to get married Divorce I promised to pick you up today to go through the divorce procedures. Get on board Sit in the back Don't get me wrong It's Sister Yingying's stuff. I know Whether before or now, Your passenger seat is hers. no Let's drive now I'm in a hurry to leave What do you mean? Aren't you going to get a divorce? What are you doing here? Yu Qian, do you really want to divorce me? Otherwise If you're really that free and easy I won't lick my knees. Discouraged Stop pretending You just want me to care about you more. Make you care about me He Ran How come I didn't realize you were so narcissistic before? Okay, no more talking. This matter is over. but You must kneel down and apologize to Sister Yingying today. Kneel down and apologize We fought because of you. Too sorry to leave Sister Yingying's child is gone too. Shouldn't you apologize? No more She deserved it. Why do you want me to apologize? Because your children are gone. I almost got divorced. Asking you to apologize is unfair to you. I almost got divorced. Asking you to apologize is unfair to you. He Ran How come I didn't realize you were so shameless before? Don't even think about asking me to apologize. You have to apologize to me today. Let me go, let me go Let me go, let me go You are finally here The bitch killed my child. I can't love my mother. I will kill you You haven't recovered yet. I asked him to kneel down and apologize to you. Sister Ning apologizes to you dream How can you compare with me? It turns out that he has loved this from the beginning to the end He married you That is a gift to you. You really think you are an onion. Hehehe All straight three when three Those who destroy other people's families will be punished. In a relationship You are the one who is loved Now tell me who is the mistress Pooh We are a legal couple You borrowed someone else's husband's gold to have a child Who do you say is small? Forget it, Yun Qian is just like this If we keep fighting like this, something bad will happen. Forget it, he killed our child. You let me just leave it at that. Bring it in What do you want to do? I just lent your husband a gold You can't stand it What if I let you get pregnant with this idiot's child? What will happen to you? Thank you, Mom, for coming to help me propose marriage. Silly boy, you like Qianqian Tell mom earlier So many years Mom thought you weren't interested in girls. Lin Qian had only hatred in her heart before. So I choose to respect her. But now that he has been hurt He chose divorce Then I will never let go I won't let him get hurt any more. Don't worry, Qianqian is the one I watched grow up with. I like this daughter-in-law, too. I'm going to order it Uncle Lin, this is small money. You came just in time The day before yesterday morning, I went to get a divorce with He Ran Hasn't come back yet I can't get in touch with anyone by phone. We also called the Civil Affairs Bureau. They said they didn't go at all. You said nothing unexpected would happen to Qian Qian, right? Uncle and aunt, don't worry. Leave this to me Mobilize everyone immediately Even if I have to search the entire Cloud City, I will find him. Sister Yun, you can't do this This is illegal Stop it, everyone! Open up Sorry I'm late Give me all What are you doing? Let me go, let me go The upper lip is ah How dare you hit me? ah Who are you? Why do you hit me? snort Who we are This Cloud City actually has I don't know if our Qin family and Qin Group Qin Group He is the president of Qin Group. Qin Yu, the richest man in Yuncheng Where are you taking him? You put him down for me Let me put him down Where do you get the qualifications? The most regretful thing I have done in my life Just let him marry you What are you going to do? Since you like Xie Jin to have children Then I will fulfill you If he can't get pregnant I take your guard is the president Um, no, no Wait a moment Sir, save me No parent-child allowed I let you go because Yun Qian once liked you Don't seek your own death Remarkably You save me I have advised you before. It's you who always insists on having your own way Still want to use this fool What do you mean I'm avenging our dead children. Are you trying to shirk responsibility now? Is it your fault that the child is gone? It's us If I hadn't been soft-hearted, I would have given it all to you. It won't turn out like this Are you blaming me now? Then you have him in your heart Let him go That's right I just saw myself clearly I really understand how much he means to me. He Ran where are you going Are you going to leave me and go find Yun Qian? yes I'm going to find him. I always thought you were a kind person. Until today, I didn't realize that you have such a vicious heart. You take responsibility for what you do. You're on your own Who Come back to me Let me go And if Miss Xu can't get pregnant Take us and ask us to hold on tight. Collect it Ahhhhh open Let me in. Let him in Get your dirty hands off my wife. Wife Remarkably If I remember correctly Yun Qian is going to divorce you today, right? Since we are getting divorced How dare you call him your wife? What you have done to him over the years What right do you have to ask me to let go? What is your relationship with Yun Qian? What do you want to do to him? I She is just an ordinary suitor of his. you You are the president of Qin Group Yuncheng's richest man Yun Xian He is just a married woman with a child. You will like him For you He might not be worth mentioning. But since many years ago He has always been my only one So what? Since you don't know how to cherish Don't blame me for taking him away. Do you know how long he has liked me? How many years has he been pursuing me? 7 years Even though I have a problem now Even if you have money You want to snatch him away? Yeah A scumbag who donated his heart to his mistress to have a child A scum who forced his wife to kneel down to his mistress I don't think you have any chance. What did you say ah What are you talking about What are you doing? Sister Yun, you are awake How dare you fight the weather? A Chinese Ghost Story Are you okay? No injuries, right? I'm fine No pain I never hit her. She is pretending Stay away from this person. Impure thoughts She has impure thoughts. Or you You tricked me into going to Aunt Xu's place under the pretext of divorce. Let her torture me How dare you attack my savior? He Ran, do you think I have no temper? Sister, you misunderstood me. I didn't expect Sister Yingying I didn't expect Xu Yingying to be so crazy I took you there just to make you apologize to her. It was him who framed me Yu Qian, you misunderstood It's all my fault I hurt Xu Yingying I want to apologize But I want to take care of you So I refused Made very angry That's why I acted impulsively I'm really fine Don't hit my mother What are you talking about? Shut up Who How can you really be so shameless? Why isn't it enough for you to ask me to apologize to your mistress? Now you dare to ask my positive people to apologize to him No, it's not like that. Yu Qian He Ran What did Dad call me? What to call me What does my father-in-law call me? Uncle Yun, you are going to divorce my daughter soon Looking for my relatives Uncle Yun, I don't want to divorce Yun Qian. And you who want to kill the child You are the one who doesn't want a divorce. How come our daughter is born a lowly person? You call me and I leave You deserve to be bullied, don't you? No, mom. Qianqian is going to divorce you Who is your mother? uncle Aunt Start Xiaoyu, this time it's all thanks to you. If it weren't for you Shallow is dangerous Auntie, this is what I should do. What happened? Are you injured? Who beat him? What Who Do you really think our family is easy to bully? You dare to play Xiaoyu No, uncle. I didn't hit him He pretended it. Get out of here now You are not welcome in our home. etc. etc. Wang Ruian and others elder sister I know you can't bear to leave me You misunderstood dad Did you bring the divorce agreement? Good to bring Over Don't force me to go to court with you to sign him Then get out sign You really want to divorce me? Because of him What do you mean? Because he He Ran, stop shirking your responsibility. I divorced you because of your bias. Your shamelessness My heart is dead We can't go back, understand? No I don't believe it I don't believe it Love Please good Visitors What to do Let me go Just this means Why can't I understand Take him down Let him sign and then let him go. Let me go Qin Yu, is your face okay? I'm sorry It's all because of me It's really okay Who didn't hit me? I did it on purpose What I just want him to feel like he's being framed. It's just the feeling of being unable to defend oneself I'm here to vent your anger you Xiaoyu, thanks to you this time. Auntie, I would like to ask Do you have a girl you like? Mom, what are you saying? With aunt And I'm getting married soon. ah Are you getting married? Mom told you. Say less Ah, light rain Can you tell me which girl this is? It's your daughter. Yunqian I like you will you marry me ah Maybe it's a bit sudden But I'm not just impulsive. Second, it was premeditated But I was married Had children And you are the president of Qin Group He is also the richest man in Yuncheng How could you I don't care Our family doesn't care. My mother and I were planning to go to your house to propose marriage yesterday. You just happened to have an accident You don't understand me yet I don't ask you to agree to me right now If you want I want to invite you to my house. My parents and grandma want to see you. Go! Go! Go mom Don't worry, we will definitely go tomorrow. Okay, I'll pick up your uncle and aunt tomorrow. Then I'll go first. Okay, you guys should rest early too. You know, I'm going tomorrow? Second, you should drink less alright What's going on? I heard Yingying Suddenly went crazy Zhang Lin has sent her to a mental hospital She deserves it. Isn't it because of Yunyun that you got drunk? Who else could it be? It can't be because of the shallow clouds. I didn't understand until yesterday He is so important to me. But I forgot everything He also includes my soul You thought of me Aran Now that you know Who is the person in your heart? Then go get him back. What's the point of getting drunk and crying here? Aran I think shallow He divorced you just to piss you off. He has been pursuing you for 7 years. How can I let go so easily? He pursued me for 7 years He must still have me in his heart Um He is just a soft-hearted person with a sharp tongue. Yes, as long as I ask him He will definitely change his mind. Met the young lady Met the young lady Met the young lady Met the young lady Ouch Yun Qian, I finally see you. This is my grandma, hello Hey, my good granddaughter-in-law Hey grandma Yunqian and I haven't gotten married yet. Oh, this kid I liked it as soon as I saw it Getting married is a matter of time. Come in quickly This is my Qin family's heirloom. Come and bring it Grandma, this is too expensive. I can't collect Just a jade bracelet What can't be collected? From now on, you will be the mistress of my Qin family. Come Silly Child Why are you crying? Your mother and I are best friends When I was a child, I was engaged to you and Qin Yu. In my heart You are my best daughter-in-law. Bring it in. I don't know what you like. I bought all the bags of all brands. There are many villas You can choose This is 10% of our Qin Group's shares. Not many, they belong to our Qin family A little bit of meaning I hope you don't dislike it. This is 10% of our Qin Group's shares. Not many, they belong to our Qin family A little bit of meaning I hope you don't dislike it. Silly boy, take it. I'll ride your stinky boy from now on If I bully you Even though I told grandma Grandma will take care of him for you. Yuan Qian As early as the first time I saw you I have decided that I will marry you in this life. Now God finally gave me this opportunity will you marry me I I do Mocha my dear relative Who is it? Dad, Uncle Yun What can I do for you? Ever since Yun Qian divorced me He refused to see me for a month. You also know Why are you still entangled after divorce? Uncle Yun Please let me meet Yun Qian. I have something to say to her. I have nothing to say to you Get out of here as far as you can You're going to show up near my house again. I called the police. Uncle Yun, I beg you Please let me see him. You just want to see Qianqian, right? Then you go to the Civil Affairs Bureau now. Uncle Yun Why did Jian Yunqian go to the Civil Affairs Bureau? You want to see Qianqian, right? Then you go to the Civil Affairs Bureau now. Uncle Yun Why did Qian Yunqian go to the Civil Affairs Bureau? Of course, that's because Qianqian went to get her marriage certificate today. You still have time to go now Maybe I can even catch up to see them get their license. Who is Leo going to marry? Who else? President of Qin Group Qin Yu, the richest man in Yuncheng This child is filial, sensible and has money. Much better than some people. Hum, impossible Impossible, I don't believe it. Why is he getting married? I'm going to find him Let's go in and play Cloud Light Yun Qian, what are you and her doing here? What else can you do at the Civil Affairs Bureau? Naturally, get a marriage certificate impossible Do you really want to marry him? Is there anything wrong with me marrying him? How long have you known each other? Just one month later you're going to marry him He Ran In terms of time I knew Yuan Qian earlier than you did. I've liked him much longer than you have. Shut up Yuan Qian's Heart I'm the only one Forcing someone to marry you Is it interesting? Who said he forced me to marry? What's the meaning Yu Qian You really love her. Otherwise, I won't marry someone I don't love. possible Then what is our seven years of relationship? Have you forgotten everything? You still dare to mention these seven years? yes I licked you for seven years without reservation and without asking for anything in return But in these seven years You treat me like dirt Trampling me into the dust It was the sunshine and rain that pulled me back He is gentle and considerate I'm the only one from beginning to end There is no so-called white moonlight If it were you Who will you love meet meet I know I'm wrong I didn't understand my own heart before. Now I know how important you are to me Can you give me another chance? He Ran, wake up. Some people are gone once you miss them. We are divorced. Those are all in the past Your father lied to me, didn't he? You must be using him to piss me off, right? No hope Go away and ignore him We're going to get the certificate. Yuchen I beg you Please don't leave. Give me another chance I will definitely love you well Okay? Will you regret it? Will you regret it? If you will We can postpone the wedding. I won't say things like I regret meeting you too late Because I won't regret any decision I make. In this case Then I will never let go easily in this life good Take him away I don't want to see him again in Yuncheng. Sister Yun Going Around Don't disturb the president and his wife's big day Roll as far as you can I'm really dead ah ah ah Good baby, mommy will coax you to sleep I'm sorry, Mr. Zhang There is nothing we can do about your wife's condition. I can only recuperate quietly in the hospital. This is a good thing for him. I'm divorced from him. Stop calling him madam. yes Whose wife is so beautiful? Please be gentle and don't pinch my stomach I I want it No no I I have What I said I had a child Have a child I'm going to be a dad I'm going to be a dad I'm going to be a dad