melodic acoustic guitar -Good morning, guys. Today we're meeting up and highly respected elder Going right up here just a few miles down the road and he agreed for me to come So, just so you know, So we're very fortunate to be getting it. All right, let's do this. melodic acoustic guitar [dog barking] [door opens] Okay, here we are. Deep in on the reservation of Pine Ridge. And I think this is his house. I hope so. PETER: You're a great-great grandmother? -A great-great grandmother through marriage with David. -Oh wow, how many grandkids? -All together we have 57. -That's almost unbelievable. So you're not just a great-grandmother, -Yep. -Perhaps the youngest, -[laughs] Thank you. -I think you win that award. DAVID: That's my friend, Russel. Russel Menes. -This guy is Russel? And the one you see -Yeah. ...during the Wounded Knee occupation. -That was what year, '73? There's a very uplifting feel -You did? -Oh good, good, I'm glad you... [coughs] My name is David Swallow. That's my Christian name. A white man, he calls me -Okay. But my Lakota name is -Wowitan Uha Mani? -Ah... You grew up without English? -Oh yeah, I grew up without English. Ain't hard to learn. -So at home you speak Lakota? I speak my original language. -What percentage of the tribe -The people... Very little... very small... Very little. -How does that make you feel? -Tsk... Well sometimes it made me feel worried. But if I look on the bright side, My grandpa said to me when I was a child... He said, &quot;One day these hakaora...&quot; &quot;...these grandchildren &quot;They're all gonna be turned to wasicus.&quot; I stood up and I said, &quot;My skin is...&quot; &quot;No, not that, takoja, grandson, &quot;Up here.&quot; -You call whites wasicus? -Oh yeah, uh-huh. -Bacon getter, wasi. [chuckles] -What getters? -So the wasicus have gotten into the minds? -Oh, it started The churches. -Missionaries. I don't know who they are. I don't know the white man God. -What is your spirituality? -The sun, the earth, the stars, Buffalo, eagle, wolf, bear. -Spirits in everything? -Oh, there's spirits in everything. Now look at 'em. Look at 'em. Who are those black robe people... ...that's raping childrens? And they say they represent God? I don't think so. -So would it be fair to say there are gonna be malevolent people... [David laughs] Bad people and people No? -No institution is good for no human being. -Okay. -Institution in the bottom And corporations are controlled With they don't have no intentions of They just want one thing -So how do you feel about -I feel sorry for the state of the world are running the way things are and they because they made it but still they want more and more. It's like a big hole... ...in the center of their heart &quot;You cannot pray.&quot; So says Dr. Fauci, Antichrist, they call it. [chuckles] And that's what it is. See? Churches cannot pray but I think because it gives all these and other denominations... They gave them the will to stood up See? And here in the tribe, this tribal council, That's what they named themselves. They told us not to have Our sun dance, our sweat, I still went ahead and did it. DAVID: It's nice out here. Now the horses are in here, in my yard. Sun'ka wakan. These are sacred dogs, sun'ka wakan. -Sacred dogs? -Are the horses? -Okay. -Very gentle horses. -It's beautiful country out here. -It is. And my sun dance place. -Over there? -So you're saying the institutions, which are basically backed is the poison let's say? Controlling society? What they cannot control, they will try. But it won't happen. Because my orders Oceti Shakowi council is not form... It was made by spirit. That was before Bureau of Indian Affairs, It was before the Britain invasion. It was way before any foreign government. And it's too powerful for anything. Any of these entities. That's why the put us on this reservation. And there's two kind of people There is, uh... A certain discrimination and racism -How so? -Some that work for the entity, and some work for -They look down on you? They look down on us. -Why, because they have the money or what? -Yes, exactly. They have the money, and they become like the wasicu. [unzips jacket] -Okay. -So they forget their relatives. They forget their people. They forget their virtues. And most of all they know how to lie. -Is it because they're comfortable now, -They are comfortable, they got good cars, good life insurance. Better education for their childrens. They used us. Use us Lakota people. The pure bloods. We are the pure bloods. The tribal council, they shouldn't Because they are of 1934 Act of Senator Howard -Hmm. [scoffs] -So that's not ours. -What's going on with the land now -This land don't belong to nobody... ...among our cultural ways but when the Bureau of Affairs and they put it here. That person have 360 acres. That one have 360 acres. That one has 360 acres. And whatever left over, Now they bring state jurisdiction -South Dakota jurisdiction here? -How so? -Well, a few... Couple weeks back the tribal council went and signed to open, I believe I was told but I was told it's called Which gives the state jurisdiction -Okay. Before it was done by Indian police? -Yep, uh-huh. But now the state is here is really highly racial towards my people. See? -At a government level or how? -Everywhere? You go into the business, Security watch over you. -And you know why Because they got the guilty conscience without the proper agreement. From our ancestors or from me. -But what do you say to someone like me? I was born in 1977. My family came from Italy. They never came out here. I don't feel connected to any of that Right? I'm white. -I can look at the atrocities of the past. I can sympathize. but right now I don't feel guilt and I wouldn't take any part of it. -That's good for you. We could coexist. -Uh-huh. But if you start on my own home... If I got to your home and disrespectful, how you gonna feel? -Of course, then it's a different story. I think a week ago the tribal council and it said they will seize anybody without notifying the people or the owner. -Okay, explain that again. They can just seize it? -They call that... That's happening here. There are no new roads being built. -No, huh-uh, but there's going to be. There are going to be new roads here? And look at where See? They're gonna build a memorial park Huh? -Who? -Oglala Sioux Tribal Council, IRA. Indian Reorganization Act. See, they're getting the money, the Bureau of Indian Affairs -Here's something I've been struggling with Is when people become It weakens them to some degree. Right? Like here is a spoon, eat. -&quot;Eat the applesauce, Johnny.&quot; -Yeah, and they take the spoon away -Right. So how do you change that? That seems like the big problem. How do we change that is we want them -Yeah, but I'm just saying -Look, they bombed the hell Yokohama. Atomic bomb, what they do? When they come to this land here and they train them They help them do everything. -Mm-hmm. -Now on this land and he can't do nothing for us See? He could have helped us restore come from other country, you know? And he could have... There was some... My people are educated now So he could have bring us a good university, a good hospital, The top one because we're from here. But he rather see us, people like me die because I won't be talking this way That way they could say, And I'm not an Indian. I'm not a Native American. I'm a Lakota. -Okay, that's... -You are a Native American. -I'm a Native American? -Yeah. -I'm a Native American? -Okay, and you're a Lakota? -You would never call yourself an Indian? -Native? Native American? -Nothing? -So the key to all of this is and call you accordingly? -The key to this thing is See, they should know the truth. Indigenous is probably close People like you, So they all know the exact truth. They should have the real truth and the schools and everything, you know? -So when they teach in universities that's not the truth usually? -Doesn't make you happy? [chuckles] -Okay, it's getting confusing. -I am from the Indigenous nation See, see? Thanks for clearing that up. 'Cause there's a lot of Exactly, and every university These are young adults and they should DAVID: Among the problems of COVID and before that it was and now we have It's illegal for a Lakota and the government knows But during the World War I, and all the way to Vietnam, up til today 'lot of the Native boys and women When they said, They go to the bar and, So the congress said, Serve 'em. -So that's where that came from. And now it got out of control. The tribal council or the BIA If we are... Could control my own people then we could control Because it's a disease Give them some money, So I could try to help my people and liquor, and drugs, -How do you get... He quit alcohol only when -Oh yeah, you Italians, The Lakotas don't know how to control that. -No, but he only quit when he wanted. Nothing, no one saying anything's But Lakota's different? -Not these people... are ain't like that. Some could have a table wine And some could... But not any... Even the Crow people. All Indigenous people, the white man beverages of alcohol. They gonna kill themselves, They gonna ruin their families. We never ever throughout we don't never taste no alcohol. -So you just have to -You have to take it out of their hands what root they come from. PETER: Why is the flag upside down? -Distress. -Distress? -What's it say on it? -American Indian Movement. -All Lakota, we're on distress In wars when enemy overruns it, it's distress and they So it's not an Indian thing. It's an American telling the Americas -Hmm. -Of poverty, drugs, alcohol, abuse, That's running the problem All these drugs are happening while and while we worry They brought, what do you call it? Methamphetamine now. When people get that methamphetamine, and they look like a zombie. -There's a lot right now? -Lot of it. -Fentanyl too? Anybody gets it, paralyze or die. See? -Not only this reservation -All over the US? It's happening. You know, it's happening. If America is so powerful and so right and so rich it could handle these problems here where you send it to... I'm sorry. But America should before he could take care of We need healing here. -We need healing here The Turtle Island, we need healing here. -If we're gonna live together here and better coexistent, Put it away and we could all begin to heal. Because we're all suffering Like that, see? Yeah, and you'd think if we were in a system we'd be working on health psychological health, We'd be better off as a people. Uh-huh, we'd be better off. We got a lot of smart people, We have a lot of them that graduated. Where they have PhD's, and they have all that, and I'm pretty sure we could combine with nature medicine and we could cure See? Instead it's this corporation says... That all the insurance corporation, they want to make money off of us So hard for us to do anything, see? And we're letting it happen And follow instructions. -Well you're not, I got a video of you. -I know, but that's only me, see? How about the others, huh? People is the power, -Yeah. -And the people has to stand up. You know? And if we have all the people here, then we will all receive good life -So we need leadership? -Yeah. We need leaders, good leaders. -Are you a leader here, David? -I'm not a leader. -I'm a spokesperson. -Could be considered a leader. -It could be considered if they want to. -If they wanna listen. But if they don't wanna listen, no. I'm only speaking for and as well as other Indigenous people and, you know, not to be treated wrong. PETER: What can we learn from you, -First of all, -Mmkay. We all need our mother, see? Without the mother there is no life. -Yeah. -And that's it, we need to do that. We need to stop the drilling of the oil. Drilling and however If we make her sick Not only mankind but everything -Yeah. All four-legged, all the winged, anything. All the crawlies, everything is gonna be in trouble. So we need to learn to protect her. You cannot learn in just a few minutes, you can't. -Of course. -It's gonna take you... -Now I said this much here today. -Okay. I hope these things that will affect -Mm-hmm. -My name is Wowitan Uha Mani. I'm a Lakota. Aho. Very interesting conversation And I just want to mention is extremely difficult behind the scenes. I want to put a big shout out there to my assistant, Kymberly, my wife, Natalia. These two really help And also David Swallow Jr. Thank you for going on camera with me I understand the historical context and most white people There's been a lot of issues in the past and a lot of mistrust And you gave me your trust Not an easy thing to do, I get it. And because things I mean I could make the best story, I can... Really, the power of the creator So always keep a close eye on that. How a story is presented and how it's cut because really, you can make things look, Hopefully that was insightful. I never know, what I'm getting into David had a short window of time &quot;Go to the town and ask around, And so... I was told yesterday also those are Native directions. You know, &quot;Go past the two dead animals...&quot; &quot;...take a left, So it's really interesting out here, and what I've realized also to now Lakota... They really do look at themselves And that's one of the big points Is how different all the tribes really are. All right, guys, got a lot more coming. Going all the way down Hopi and Dine. Which Navajo, Dine, I'm not even sure what Most people know Navajo Nation. All right, thanks for coming along. Until the next one. melodic acoustic guitar