Hey guys Dan here, and welcome to another fortnite video where today we are trying to attempt to jump over Landmarks in the ATK or the golf cart, go-kart, whatever you want to call it, and it looks pretty awesome I'm not gonna lie. So this was taken from a live stream. I did a couple of hours ago If you enjoy seeing a second video of the day which is... probably Fortnite doing crazy stuff like this and please leave a like that would be greatly appreciated Subscribe if you're brand new and enjoy the video, we start off by jumping over the loot lake We try a max height build ramp as well And then we move on to a jumping over Dusty Divot without touching the ground Using the ATK, a max height ramp, and also, bounce pads. It's epic, check it out! I'm gonna see if we can jump Loot Lake, I think with bounce pads, maybe on launch pads as well, I think we can do it We are gonna hit some supply drops as well because we need the bounce pads This seems like a good run-up we can get rid of all these trees This is perfect. We're gonna see how far we can get Over Look Lake. Yeah I think here is perfect, nice and flat. There's a llama over there, which I am gonna grab DIE LLAMA Thank you, sir. That is all I need from you, some of these. Right we're gonna have to make a big flick at the end So we're gonna put... Yeah, we're gonna put flats here, And that's where our jumps gonna start. We're gonna put bounce pads there if we... This and this, let's see if this works, then we're gonna double ramp the whole thing There's only one way to find out if this works And that's by doing it. It's actually not going to be that difficult I thought it might be so we're gonna do it this way instead, AND we're also gonna make it so that(silence ;-;) Oh, we could do it a Dusty Divot as well. I might do that afterwards depending on how quick this is, whoa, almost fell off, that would have been embarrassing, but we want to go to build height We also want to make a ramp so we can go up in the ATK as well I'm making it double just so it's easier for me to NOT fall off. Okay, we made it we made it so let's just quickly break that... And, that as well So this is gonna be our start point. That's pretty mental. I want to get a shopping cart up here as well, which I think we should be able to do Let's make a bigger platform like this Just so we've got some run-up and some space And I'm pretty sure there's an ATK over in Snobby so we could make the ramp down there Let's just make it a simple up and over do want to get some shopping carts here as well I mean this isn't gonna be a simple up and over now is it? It's got a it's gotta mountain in the way Yeah, this is the stuff, the stuff of dreams We almost made it all the way to the bottom. (Oof) There we go. Okay. So now we just need our ATK And then we're up. We're up and ready to go and let's see what happens. We might need some more bounce pads as well so what I'm gonna do is if we can't make it over Loot Lake then we're gonna place bounce pads in the right place and Try and make it bounce as far as possible (INHALES) That's the plan anyway, might chug this Chug Jug just before as well, just to give me some confidence You know? Gonna need it for a (uhh) project like this. Alright, here we go At least we know where the ATK's are. there's a llama just chillin' up there I might actually grab that just so we've got ourselves some bounce pads. Hello sir, what're you do it up here? What happens did you fall off? At least the clung on he's good. So that's what we want to look out at the bottom as well We want to see, as I run over the llama (Moment of silence please) We want to see how far we can get that air time distance and Heights. Here it is. Oh my goodness Okay, I changed my mind Definitely change my mind. No! No! Get back here. That was almost *Giggles* That was almost a big mistake. Look at this, the view is always amazing. I think we should just try this we're gonna Chug-a-chug, just so we will get a little bit of a uhmm, you know, a little bit of confidence See how it's going and let's see. What happens shall we? Chug. Chug. Chug. Chug. Chug. All right, here we go I'm gonna back it up back it up real nice And just go for it. No, no, no, no, no. Why-Why are you going down? Why're you going down stop that, stop this, Stop this, Nooooo! Oh my goodness almost failed. Uh Ha ha. Attempt number one! Let's do this (Captioner Ndeg4 stops) I'm just gonna keep on going to try and keep it as straight as possible, which it's gonna be tricky But how far we gonna get I don't think we get it too far Here we go Oh my goodness, Don't actually go that fast. I'm unimpressed It has a top speed I reckon that oh, geez All right, we need bounce pads here so if we put We put those there That should hopefully work And then we should be able to bounce across I think that the trolleys are gonna be way better the shopping carts even well, this is embarrassing This is slightly embarrassing. I'm a shark Inside an ATK, Yeah, we need to get I think they're shopping where the shopping cart the nearest ones there on that place over there aren't there Right you be careful now? Just a shark the living on the edge, lets see what happens, Oh Nicely done sir. I appreciate that. This should be faster This is gonna be our second attempt, ATK was actually pretty terrible We have got the bounce pads there just in case the only problem with this is We're not gonna be able to move it while we're going down Let's see what happens Let's go let's go Oh I'm movin' a bit to the side this could be bad This could be bad And I didn't put the bounce pads in the right place. There we go Yeah, that would be the right places. Well, they're exactly the same They feel fast but they're exactly the same. Right. I need to put this here. I'm just gonna keep the other one there We need more bounce pads though. attempt number two in the ATK. Here we go Launch pads don't work apparently Here we go Yes Yes This one lands like right here that works amazing. So how far is that across? Let's work it out one two three, four five six Seven so we should be able to work it out and get all the way across Loot Lake while I'm out here Actually, I just want to see if I can find some more launch pads and jump pads bounce pads. Whatever You want to call them and then we'll head back. I Think I can see myself a Supply Drop up there Llamas are the best ones though. Smacked dat llama Thank you for your launch pads buddy appreciate it right here we go campfires chillin It's like we got a little minecraft base up here. So this is the test to See if we've got the bounce pads enough away apart And see what happens. Well, it's that bottom left that we want to make a massive number Here we go, here we go, here we go hard to keep straight. Yes Yes We got it We have got it one two three four five six seven bouncer and that's gonna get us all the way across if we do that and then and edit this bit. And then edit this bit it should like break it this should break both of them. Denenenene bounce. Oh my goodness So I think it does only take you oh my goodness. What is going on? Stop stop, behave yourself Okay, let's try get this lined up straightaway. I've just realized this got a llama on the front as well. Just quite funny. Let's see. What happens go ATK go. I think we're pretty straight It's getting straight. That's the issue and I think we've done it. This should go all the way across. Here we go You switched to passenger you switched to the lines. Oh no quick wait, we need to turn. Why we will nineteen meters that time I need some more bounce pads Desperately so we can do it decide about something to go left a little bit. Okay, that makes a little bit sense So I'm pretty sure I'm going straight but this should save us anyway. Yeah, I think we're straight. Let's do this It should be the final attempt. Let's go nice. Oh, this is perfect. Yes Yeah, we made it into the tree let's go oh Yes, it works. It actually works. Okay, perfect. Yes That's great. Okay, I think we should do that over dusty next because they added, Scariness I guess it's gonna be that you've got nothing to save you and then we're gonna try it first time. Oh, Oh Oh My goodness that was fast That was really fast to fast. No, no No. No, this is my the pickaxes are pulling out everything. This is pretty bad You can still make the jump cut it you got this you could do it No idea what happens? Oh it's all going wrong we're in trouble now Almost died as well. Right? Is this the best place we can do it? I think it's the only big Section of open land, right? I need llamas i need llamas, but let's try this over dusty divet We can also try it just straight up in midair. Swear. I saw a llama over here. Thank you for the wood Appreciate it. You don't need as many bounce pads as possible. Let's see how many this is gonna take what I'm gonna do is really build at max height and Then we're gonna do it slightly off the ground So it's a little bit more a little bit more risky and see what happens. All right, here's a good location to start there's a llama There he is It's gonna welcome me set me on my way But I'm gonna smack you in the face and sorry buddy. This is perfect. Actually, we're gonna make it all the way across dusty I don't know how many that's gonna do but let's see so if we do this and This is where it's gonna go. We're gonna start the jump here. So one two, Three four five six seven that's gonna be a bounce pad Five six seven. Okay. This is kind of close, but I'm pretty sure that's gonna be able to let it work The only thing is I want to make it sort of the bounce pads are kind of Floating. So let's see if I can do that. Oh, I could bounce off this and just drag it down right if I do this Yeah, that works I might die from this one though Hey, there we go. I want to blow you up. Hello sir. How you doing? Oh, jeez No No! I Knew that was gonna happen at least once it's gonna look cool though. Look see it's only got the oh Yeah, that's cool right back to normal back to schedule Let's edit that. This is the last bit then we should be good. We've got the ATK. We're ready to go Let's put this here. Go Boom that is what we're dealing with right now and hopefully That's gonna give us enough clout to get all the way To the other side. There's only one way to find out. Let's see what happens Gonna make it out of bricks And then we're good to go. Let's go go ATK. So this in theory should work all the way across It's that type of Bounce Pads at the ends. Yeah, I did. Okay. This should get us all the way across dusty divot in Theory if it doesn't work then my bad. This is the one attempt that we're doing I don't think I'm gonna have to fix it afterwards. So this has to work This has to work, all right, let's get central let's go let's do this We're nice and straight It's just gonna work all the way across dusty divot and an ATK. Oh no why did it turn at the end. Yes Let's go Let's go go. It's going to the left. It's going to the left. Don't do it No, I'm gonna try to get out of here now So let's try and get like a straight line here and then maybe it will fling us enough This will work though. Let's go ATK over dusty divots with just floating bounce pads I'm not gonna touch the direction button Yes Yes, it's working. It's actually working. Let's get outside let's emote no I Got so confident. How did that how did that fail? How did I fail I'm gonna have to put more bounce pads up now I'm just gonna layer this with bounce pads so they're worse That should send us over but I'm gonna layer this a bounce pads as well That should now work attempt number three They're barely enough bounce pads. Now. I'm pretty sure there is let's go. Let's go This is it so if I switch seats It does go a bit faster You're right. It does go faster. I think we've made it though. Are we gonna make it all the way across? We are we did it we did a shock we did it all that was epic. Oh It worked. I'm so pleased. it worked though? That's actually sweet crazy things. You can do in fortnite right now It's not a shooting game anymore. It's not a shooter game at all. Do it one more time Try and get the emote go for longer. Yeah, orange justice orange justice is the one you guys are saying orange justice So that's the one we're gonna do to celebrate. All right, let's go This is tried and tested Magic right here. Oh, geez shouldn't attack that. Here we go. Yes So now that we switch to this Excuse me Excuse he's going by himself. I think it's going by yourself It's going over the way What happened? Why did it kick me out? I'm so upset My own car didn't want me to do the orange justice. That's what's going on here, huh? I want to see if the car made it I'm guessing you did you did? Yes, let's go. Here we go this should be enough Oh, I don't think I I done it straight. It should be fine though. This should be fine Let's go. I know he switched to behind passenger Yeah Let's go Go on make it Make it all the way across That's what I'm talking about. That's our furthest one so far and we're done we didn't even get the Landing how upsetting is that we did it though. We went across the Loot Lake. We went across dusty divot and I'm happy about it