In the Red Square. From Mountain View, California. How are you going to beat this robot? How Sway. You ain't got the answers, man. You ain't got the answers. Prepare to flip with Blue. Wait a two and two record and an. Unexpected 25 seed for Team Blip. Captain Aaron Hill hoping this is the moment Absolutely. Remember, Blip won the award for flywheel. Flipper just hasn't matched last Added those sharp piano key forks Aaron can get under saw blades, anything can And a blue. Square from Cambridge, Massachusetts. He came he saw he saw some more. Give it up for saw blades. Normally always on the cusp of greatness. A tremendous. Ground at three and one. The lone loss to Hydra. Kenny I'm asking, is this Jaimoe's year? He's definitely got the bot to do it. Sables drives with precision. It's hammer saw literally rips holes in The configurations are so smart, purposeful. If Jameson can take down something as well to kick off his run for the night. I faced Jamison go before when I was driving Got the better of him then. You can try getting the better of him this straight up maneuverability and acceleration I think we have one of the best drivetrains head to heads and manage to get a get a side first flip in. Once I get the first flip in, foot and just never let him get planted We have a strong feeling they're going to We equipped our sharpest set, which is a wider foot. It should give us the best and actually potentially damaging theirs That's how durable, that's how sharp these The blade is brand new and it's very, very We're putting on our best clothes for our Good to go. Okay. Okay. Let's do. It. Aaron Hill Jamison goes. A big name is about to fall. Ken Blip. Find the championship mojo that the giant nuts. Or will Sawblade slash and burn its way to Let the mock battle begin. Both teams feeling each other out. Blyth tries to get. Under Sawblades but can't. Successful that time though, but doesn't have Jamieson goes by. Yeah. Good job by Giaimo to free himself under those long forks on Sawblades. Blyth trying to attack Jamie's flank. Now rams him into the side of the arena, but either teams. Fired their weapon. Yet both drivers very Great shot there by Jamison Go. And I don't think he's done Kenny. That hammer saw. Clip is mangled. Brutal. Yeah. This is not good. You do not. Go to get underneath you. Sawblades get that. Another shot of that Jamieson go doing a good job keeping that the fight so far. Blip just doesnt look normal. Aaron Hill just can't seem. To find an edge. Uh oh, man. Softly. Oh, the great control by using that He may start to get that flame going as well. How about Blip. Coming back there, though? Blip has just got to get under him. He's got him. Can he get a blip? He cannot. And Aaron Hill has to. Capitalize in that situation. Chris. He's playing from behind. A single flip could disable. Jamieson goes. Hammer saw. So Aaron can't be shy with. That trigger finger. He said part of his goal Ray Jamieson go but goes got flipped. Oh he takes him into the screws on the upper Flip has yet to get. A significant flip on Sable. Sable has been dominating the weapon game Approaching the one minute mark. Well, Aaron Hill clearly got the more nimble Just won't let him get around to the sides. Lip trying to spin out a damaged. Van Flip has taken some huge overhead shots. Their top armour is all torn up. But here we go. Beautiful move by Jamison Go to get off the Darren Hill has to stop hesitating. Jamison go is going to keep making him pay Oh, look at that shot. He's just throwing his opponent around the This is. Really impressive. The fact that Aaron Hill is still around But what can he do? Well, the Clipper hasn't worked the way he's But I do know that James Joe is taking Aaron Hill has not. Those are just brutal In the meantime, by sobbles. This one's going to end up going the Anything from Cliff? Anything? Not one clip in this one and Start to finish. Okay. So after three minutes of action, we Schema. Well, Kenny, about a dozen strikes saw blades and a total of zero flips for Yeah, And watching some of these shots again function to that flipper earlier than we Look at how deep Jamiel's weapon goes. No amount of ablative armor is going to stop And hey, functional flipper or not, Jamison opportunities to even fire his weapon. Yeah. Utilized those long forks masterfully protection when Blip did get around to his Just a dominant performance from Jamison go Let's make it official. The results from the judges are in. The winner by unanimous decision is. So.