Hey, everybody, Don Georgevich here with Job Today, I want to give you my seven best tips So, if you want to use your next interview, button on this video. Subscribe to my channel and ring the bell So, you got an interview coming up. I know you want to ace it. So, I'm going to give you my top seven steps First thing you've got to do, number one, And I can't emphasize this enough because interview. That good, firm handshake from you to your Now, whether you're a man or a woman, it doesn't Always shake hands. And some people, they feel I feel uncomfortable. They feel awkward shaking hands; don't. I mean, don't go in and shake the receptionists But the hiring manager, the manager or anybody hand. And look them in the eye when you shake their Look them in the eye, shake their hands. It just sends so much of your energy over It lets them know that you are happy and excited Now, if you go into a big meeting room and walk around and shake everybody's hand. That would just be ridiculous and take too So, in those cases, I'd like to shake just that's right next to me and then I do the it's nice to meet you. Bam, done. I just shook eight hands with Hey, everybody, So, I can't emphasize the handshake enough. Get a good firm handshake. And if you're not good at it, practice with But remember, look them in the eye and shake to meet you. All right. Number to maintain eye contact. Just like we did in the handshake; we're looking When you are talking in the interview, make to. So, let's say, for example, say one person You're going to look at them and you're going Now, what you want to do is you want to include people, three or ten. There's probably going to be more than one So, let's say it's three or four people. So, first, you look at the one person and Then you move over to the next. While you're still answering the original and the next person and the next person. And what you're doing by that, by making that answer is you're bringing them in to your It's respect. If you just answered the question to the one at anybody else, for one, you're going to staring at them the whole time. So, youre excluding everybody else when And that's just part of presentation in general. I mean, any time you're giving a speech, you're eye contact with people to bring them in, you recognize them. So, let's say it's just you and the hiring You look at the hiring manager, go to the back and forth. Bring them all in. Now, let's just say it's you and the hiring make eye contact. Don't stare at them the It's okay in those cases to kind of just break We all need that momentary pause. Because you can't just have eyes on you all You don't want them staring at you all the They're going to look away or they're going So, you want to do the same thing in the interview. Number three; maintain good posture in the So, I would encourage you not to sit back You want to be sitting up straight in your It's okay to put your elbows on the table, a couple of reasons. One, it looks professional; doesn't make you And it's also going to help you deliver your So, when you're speaking and you're maintaining to get out more vocal energy (for lack of to emphasize everything that you say. Plus, you're going to feel better about yourself. I mean, how do you feel when you're just sitting Yeah, it might be comfortable, but it's a You want to be in a straight, upright position, You're trying to convince, you're trying to How effective do you think you would be at in your chair? Probably not very effective; not very convincing. So, sit up straight, maintain good eye contact image. And all too often, you probably already know And everybody does. But you know what? They forget it. And so, that's why I'm here today reminding the difference. It's the simple things. It's not the advanced stuff that makes a difference. It's mastering all these little simple things. Okay, let's move on. Number four; communicate clearly. So, when you're speaking to them, think before So, if they ask you a question, you don't because what's going to happen is you're going You're going to start thinking back in your day and the odds were against you and you're very scattered way. And it's just going to kind of come out all You're going to talk in circles. You're going to start changing the order of No, this happened first. That happened. in the interview, when you're answering the first thing you want to do is take a quick And this happens in milliseconds. Think about a story that you want to tell And then, very important, here; think about Where do you want to stop? What's going to be the conclusion? You need to identify the last line of what And what that does is that gives you a target your answer. So, they ask you a question, you think, Okay, I'm going to tell them about where I saved Everybody was happy and then I'm going to Then you start talking. You tell them the story. And all the while you're telling them a story, on. Without this focus point, you end up being blah, blah, blah, blah, all throughout the And by the time you're done talking, they you said. And oftentimes when we're doing this, we forget And the interviewer is looking at us like, gosh, they must want more information. talking in circles and it's just a big mess. So, that's how you communicate clearly. And it works we'll. Number five; bring a set of questions to ask And everybody always wants to know, What what? Those are different for everybody. You don't want to just ask the same old standard You want to ask questions that are going to and whether you want to work there or not. Now, I actually made another video on this I think it's called 12 Questions to Ask An I'll try to put a link to that down in the But I want you to go into the interview, to to that are going to help sell you on whether And those questions are going to be different So, I can't tell you what they are. You have to come up with them. What's important to you about this job? Now, if you're like, Well, hey, Don, I take it. Whatever it is, I'll take it. I don't care. That doesn't work. You want to ask them questions to show them are interested in. When you ask questions that shows them that You're not willing to just take anything. You're challenging them on the position, on And that just speaks volumes about you compared ask any questions, who is just like, Yeah, to give it to them because they just want I want somebody who wants the job, who wants And that's what your focused questions are Number six, bring more copies of your resum Because when you get in the interview, let's of them say, Do you have any extra copies And they'll be like, Well, I can go print You want to say, Yeah, here you go. I have extra copies right here. extra copies is you can bring your latest Because oftentimes, you get into an interview applied to that job. The employer might say, Hey, do you have know what? Maybe you do, because maybe there was something you need the change, whatever or you had a So, here's an opportunity to give them a fresh, And have a copy of your references. But don't offer them references. Don't offer your references unless they ask. I think that's too pushy. The employers only interested in references If they're interested in hiring you, they So, which case they will ask you for your But just volunteering them, saying, Hey, pushy. Make them come to you for them. Make them do the work. All right. Last one here. Number seven; be consistent with everything Oftentimes, employers will have usually about in one day. They could break them up over four different But you're likely to interview with at least So, what you say to the first interviewer the third interviewer and the fourth interview. Everything needs to be consistent. Because if you're not, they're going to catch Because what you tell to the first person, And then when you talk to the third person, And if you say different things to both those their notes, they're going to be like, This himself and he said that. You're out. So, they don't want that. You want to be consistent all the way through So, don't tell different stories to different You can tell different stories, just make straight and all your ducks are in a row. All right. So, there you go. Be consistent with everything you say. And that is all I have for you. I give you my top seven, my very best seven Now, I want to give you a free gift since Head on over to jobinterviewtools.com/top10 It's got the top 10 questions in it that are Because, I mean, these seven steps, these These are going to help you in the interview. These are sort of the structure part, but and you still need to practice questions. You still need to know, Why do you want or What are your weaknesses? What career goals? you how to answer all of those and do it very And cool thing is, this is free; absolutely jobinterviewtools.com/top10. Now, they're going to ask you more than 10 For that, I have another book here. Now, this one's not free. This is The Complete Interview Answer Guide. This one has about 140 different questions It's got behavioral questions in it. It covers everything the Top Ten covers and It's going to teach you how to answer all And cool thing. This book is available hard copy, like you I'll ship that out to you. It's available in e-book. You could just download it instantly. Also comes with audio and video. So, if you'd like to learn by watching videos put them on your iPod and you just love listening Only this book has all of those. You can get all those from jobinterviewtools.com. And all those questions and answer, they're of what you can expect, of what it's going all those interviewers grilling you with question This guide, it's just going to break down to get you well prepared for your interview. All right, my friend, that is all I have for Good luck on your next interview. I'll see you in the next video. Bye now.