When you walk into a T.J. Maxx, you never quite know It might be an espresso Calvin Klein jacket, socks. At least those are seen firsthand shopping This Vineyard Vine shirt, both came from a T.J. Maxx right here in New York its retail price. I swear every time I go in or something. These are all Under Ar mour, 9.99 TJX is one of the most over the last decade. Bargain hunting has been as opposed to something do. TJ convinced the world You opted out of your to T.J. Maxx, and you never can find. And it kind of second hand and vintage younger consumers doing. The company saw over $54 fiscal year 2024. About 80% of that came from stores. So how did T.J. Maxx turn bargain hunting success stories in American TJX companies operates five the majority of its Marshalls and T.J. Maxx, which operates over country. What's very interesting a very wide demographic. Although it's offering just serving a low income There are a lot of middle higher income consumers Between 2014 and 2024, TJX sales. I'll make her a T.J Max, let us make a Over the last decade or so, in the way that consumers You're not some sad Chopper. You're a smart, think that's actually consumers. One of the most impressive is they have turned something of an of honor. The off price space as a now, but TJX is a standout In 2023, its annual sales Stores and Ross stores The company's share price the past five years, competition and the S&amp;P T.J. Maxx and Marshalls of inventory that goes home decor space. However, the TJX retailer level is home goods. Recent growth has been a retailer than its other two accounts for over 20% of significantly less stores. In this current the housing market has set It's frozen. So at a time retreating from the home brands are seeing a lot of Home goods is still the same kind of treasure TJ does not architect for a They're very different than Their goal is not to be a Their goal is to be a That sounds nuanced, but it And that value is derived hunt perception of the also the inventory itself. Selling to off price profitable for brands. The key is to strike a into those stores without image. The moment there is a offloading and dumping a one needs to shop full brand loses its equity. Some consumers think off Retailers like T.J. Maxx are just stores full brands. While this is ways that these stores get contracts to buy product manufacturers. The off partner with manufacturers exclusive private label TJX buyers are really expert that must have stock, so leaders in terms of putting and engaging assortment for And I would say TJX has the the other off price Last time she was in this Maxx she saw a Jean Paul I came in. For a return and I left with With our more than 1300 a universe of more than 100 countries, we are plenty of quality branded to support our growth Beyond its quarterly workings of TJX are The company declined CNBC's would not permit us to film The company shared the T.J. Maxx offers a wide Our rapidly changing exciting treasure hunt They're never publicly business. Part of that, I relationship with the on TJX's website, if you're Maxx. Com, you can't filter And there's a reason for aren't going to want you to to be undercutting their The brands can give product They can give them stuff see. And as soon as they of products in TJ, they're And so this inability to go that they're actually less were priced higher store that you and I can for friends and family. In 2024, TJX reported annual billion mark. Size is generally the when it comes to TJX have Have they simply gotten too Is there a point where the high? So far, as long as volume and revenues to revenues to collect, but availability is generally And if it feels like T.J. Maxx has had an especially over the past few years, of the pandemic in 2021 and as supply chain challenges space. To compensate, products to prevent future But then what happened is glut of inventory that they So part of why TJ Maxx because all of these inventory, and they really channel to be able to get So their assortment was last couple of years. Economic pressure on the U.S with the Fed's most recent But while inflation has And unlike full price typically benefit when the This has underscored recent However, T.J. Maxx also wins when because its customer base reliant on the lower income the off price space. The company reported a same in its fiscal 2025 second It said that the increase transaction growth, which were buying things in its Now, you could trade down to cheaper retailers. But the problem is they people want, whereas off So I think the current recruiting sergeant for off But as new customers are chains normalize, TJX will continue filling its stores that keeps shoppers coming This is especially scales. Tjx believes it has more stores. It currently has about 45% ago. It's been growing its well. Operating nearly 1400 and Australia. This map shows its presence with T.J. Maxx counterpart Maxx. I think what's exciting business is that the U.S Companies that grow with U.S growth, are than companies that are U.S business is starting to inside, sees its revenues and new customers, and they growing new stores keep fleet. That's a powerful