Wazzzzzuuuppp ding dongers? It's me Ding Sauce. Today we're going to enjoy a little bit Thirteen years ago I discovered this pillowcase sworn it was smiling at me. It was so weird. I was like "Wipe that grin off your face about that? I'm not going to do what you say because And I was like "okay that sounds pretty I'm gonna leave." and it was like "No no no sorry it's just I'm actually pretty nice. Really all I do is take that which is out And I was like okay yeah sure but if you say Anyway long story short we became friends so I have to keep it locked up. But if we're quiet enough we should be able Hannah could you make sure the door is locked. Yeah. Okay everyone hold your breath. Don't let it know you're living until Okay. We're good? Okay. The Pillowcase of Terror. Let me show you one of the things that it It freaked me out when I learned it so here's Nice bid ol' cards. Boom. Nice and big. I'm gonna put these in the Pillowcase of fear. That which I wouldn't wish upon even my Look at that. Now the first time this happened to me I was was like "These small cards were always then you let go of them and you picked up I was like "Ahh you're right." Okay so that wasn't magic. But today we're gonna do some real magic I'm gonna be using my Greek philosopher You could really use any deck you want but Now the power of the Pillowcase of Terror But I think we might be able to outsmart it Let's see. Hannah what's your favorite number? 6. 6, okay. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. And uhh Jack what's your favorite number? 5. 5? Okay. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 6+5 is 11 so we have an odd number of cards That's good. I like that. Here's how we're gonna test the pillowcase. I'm gonna take the 11 cards and turn them Easy, great, perfect. Now I'm gonna shuffle these face-up cards Perfect. Okay. Push them together. Let's give them a few little moves like I'll do a little riffle and then a little Beautiful. Great. Okay so we now have a shuffled deck of a card, And there those face-up cards are sort of What I'm gonna do now is take this deck inside the pillowcase of terror. It won't be pretty but when I am done, and out I will be holding out two piles of cards. They may not have the same number in them, the number of face-up cards in both piles Ready? Ohhh! Okay they're getting really hot! Okay! It's done! It's happened. I now have two piles of cards. They're not of equal size but they should Let's see if the case has done its work. Okay. In this pile we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 face-up In this pile we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 face-up 7 face-up cards in both piles. That's why they call it the Pillowcase of Okay so how does this trick work? Well believe it or not this is just a regular There's nothing special about it. Fooled you right? You don't need to be scared of it and it This trick is self-working. It's math magic. As long as you follow the right procedure All you have to do is count out some number Let's say seventeen. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, Now I'm gonna flip these cards over and When I shuffle them into the deck it really You could even have a friend do this. You could have some member of your audience We really just wanna mix them all around. And there's no trick involved into where We just wanna have those 17 face-up cards Doesn't matter where they are. Then you take seventeen cards out of the deck. Doesn't matter from where but it's easiest 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, Now what I do is I take the 17 I took off piles now have the exact same number of face-up For real let's take a look. This pile has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Watch. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. How does this work? It's actually quite simple. When I take some cards out of the deck. Let's say 24 in this case. Here's 24 cards. I take out 24 cards and I turn them over. I now have 24 face-up cards. I shuffle them into the deck. There are 24 face-up cards in the deck. Could be any number of cards though. There we go. 24 cards are now face-up in this deck. I then remove that number of cards from the 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, Perfect. Now what do we know. We know that there are a total of 24 face-up We also know there are 24 cards here. So how many face-up cards are here? We'll call this Pile A. And we'll call are face up? I don't know! I shuffled them. It's all kind of random. I didn't pay attention to where I put them. Let's just call that number X. Okay. So in this piles of 24 cards, x of them are So how many are face-down? Just 24-X. Now how many cards in this pile are face-up? Well, we know that there's 24 face-up cards And x of them are in here. So the number of face-up cards in this pile, so we have 24-x face-up cards here and we When I turn one of the piles over. Doesn't actually matter which one every And every face-down card becomes faced-up in A as we did face-up cards in B. I just cards so now we have the same number of face-up Interestingly you can choose to reverse either them and that is the trick of the Pillowcase Also known as cards in the dark. Missmag himself didn't even give it a name. He just did it and it's amazing. But I love the trick and it's really fun principles to develop your own magic. So have fun, keep your pillowcases locked