Hey everyone, so it's been almost exactly flat earth debunk as part of my astronomy series. That was the one that the globebusters foolishly commentary prompted me to make this little Then based on the ridiculous comments I received moronic things that all flat earthers say video made the rounds. And then I put the whole thing down for a while. It was never my intention to make that sort I got ten times the views of my normal content, But I had to move on, channel with academic intentions to one devoted However, it's been a year, I've done so back in the muck for a moment. This time, I'd like to offer some challenges clinging to this dying fad to derive some Let's call them: These will be some basic things that anyone They are so mind-numbingly obvious, that the indicator of your complete lack of intellectual Let's get started and you'll see what Number one. Here's the flat earth map that you all seem Anyone with half a brain can immediately tell but for those with an even smaller fraction, For example, make a scale. You know, a scale? It's that thing on maps that tells you how Look at this map. There's a scale. You can pick two cities and determine the Then you can drive your car from one to another Now back to your little map. Where's the scale here? Why do you never include one? Is it because it's impossible? Yes, that is exactly why. And if you disagree, here's your challenge. Pick some distance on this map. A centimeter, an inch, whatever. Tell me the distance it corresponds to in reality. Then, pick some cities, and use your scale Pick two on the same continent, pick two on Use it to tell me how wide this inappropriately Use it to tell me literally anything about When you can't do it, and your numbers do recall that this map does it just fine, and Your complete inability to make any kind of the earth isn't flat. But let's continue just for fun. Number two. As we all know, the existence of Antarctica When it is summer in the northern hemisphere, to this tropic, making the days longer here, And then when it's winter in the north, which you think gives you the shorter days total chaos. You have the sun tracing this enormous trajectory, for most of the day, when in reality, there the sun never sets. Since your dinky little sun can never illuminate compeletely obliterates your model, which You simply deny that this midnight sun ever to Antarctica to verify it for themselves, kill you. Well apart from all the commercial cruises, you totally could go see it for yourself. But you don't really have to go all the Just go to the tip of South America, like Or don't even go there, just look up times In mid-December, sunrise is earlier than 5 Now take your little model for the seasons, Then try and make the night and day portions Demonstrate the light from the sun illuminating its trajectory. And as you do that, make sure that it does during its entire trajectory, as that town That's right. Lots of sun over here, and zero sun over here. Good luck. If you decide to even try, observe that the not even the most meth-fueled creatives amongst justify it. If you can't make your model show the seasons out that you can't almost a year ago, then Number three. Here's an idea. What if you were to actually make a prediction Like, any prediction. You know, those things you have to do in science Pick any celestial object. A planet. A comet. A star. Now pick any time in the future. And using only the flat earth model and nothing If you can't do this, and I know you can't, irrelevant. People who actually understand the geometry a solar eclipse, specifying the start and precise path down to the square mile. Doing that even a single time means the model verified, and it's done every single time. Anyone who doesn't see the importance of Number four. After I demolished essentially all of your you all now cling primarily to the classic You love this one because you can lie about and in general act incredulous without having Well every time you whine about this, the that you can fudge the numbers, and they're effects to people who have no idea how refraction So try this one on for size. Show me a picture of something over land that's May I suggest the middle of the country where It's a straight shot after all, so what's Use a telescope. Pull Las Vegas into focus from Dallas, Texas. Isn't that where you have your little meeting? Maybe you should try doing something productive hoax on the internet. Number five. Speaking of things that are far away, you that I wouldn't be surprised if a Nikon hoax as a viral marketing campaign. You take a boat that's far away, pull it brilliance for figuring out how to operate Well try this one then. Stay on the boat. Don't cut away. Stay on it until it disappears. How will it disappear? Bottom up. Just like everything else. I wonder why you've never put that on YouTube? Number six. The most hilarious thing about flat earth make absolutely no sense in your model. Like a sunset. A small sun above a flat earth would simply smaller until it fades away. It absolutely would not retain the same angular It stays the same size because it's unbelievably the earth is a sphere that is turning. Even a toddler can understand this. It's so blatantly obvious that you have about refractive effects that defy all logic nothing else. Or even better, some of you talk about about produces some bizarre optical effect. Apart from the sheer absurdity of this magical it creates big problems for you, because you kinds of magic to push the air and water around, That would require that it is inside the dome. So which is it? Is the sun outside of the magical non-existent or is it inside the magical non-existent dome, It can't be both. Or if you bail on the dome and say it's that make up around one percent of the atmosphere effect than actual liquid water? How does the appearance of a sunset never Why does nothing else but the sun behave that way? Show me a projectile or a plane going below Or show me this dome and explain the phenomena Do something to explain a sunset. Do anything besides making idiotic videos middle school level science. Number seven. What the hell is a lunar eclipse to you? Seriously. Explain anything about a lunar eclipse. The things you say about solar eclipses are A lunar eclipse happens when the earth gets That's right. In between. These two objects are not perpetually above you're totally silent on lunar eclipses. And if you're going to propose that some the moon, good luck trying to demonstrate Number eight. Speaking of the sun and moon being small and strapping a camera to a weather balloon and Go get up close and personal with either of If you get crafty with some robotics, which you could even scoop up a little sample. Maybe the moon is made of cheese after all. Can't you get even halfway there, such that Reach for the sky, fellas. Number nine. Take some flights. Like any direct flight in the southern hemisphere. Whoops! Shouldn't that be impossible? Better yet, fly between two cities two different shortest way on the flat earth. Which one do you think will be faster? I'm just joking, I know that none of you a private jet. But next time you're on a regular plane, not constantly turning slightly to one side, Yeah. You would notice that. If humanity is unfortunate enough that you've cockpit to meet the pilot and snap a pic of What do you know, straight as an arrow. And number ten. Do anything legitimately scientific, at all. Publish anything whatsoever about your model Invent any technology based on your model. Do anything at all that could be considered Here's a hint, you may have to study some you would immediately learn that the earth much use. So that's it for the ten challenges. I say the word challenge facetiously, since futility, and resort instead to calling me You flat earth priests with your waste of even remotely empirical demolishes your hoax, and very little else. And you handful of mindless followers hanging maybe 2020 is the year you finally get a clue There's a whole spherical world out there, mock you or be ashamed to know you. There are so many opportunities to actually I know I've been hard on you, but I really All you have to do is disengage from these Save that ten dollar superchat and buy yourself fund so you can go to school and learn something useful. The choice is yours. Good luck, and good night.