When it comes to minimalism, being more and also living in a clutter-free home, is a want or a need. And also to realize Because product marketing, as well as often convince us that we need things that we really, things that most likely you just don't need. to either save a bit of money by not buying your home by decluttering them if you do Now of course, as always, if you do have some you use them all the time, then that is absolutely please use the suggestions from this list that water bottle needs to be able to contain water in you on the go. And that's it. It doesn't need to get one of those if you want to, but it's probably think that we have things like stanley cups here. surprised to see videos of all these people going cup. Number two, expensive self-care items. I because I think it is very important. But one can be completely free. It can come from a place doing the things that you need to feel good, and and all of that good stuff. So you don't have It is marketing that's trying to make you believe in order to take good care of yourself. And while others I think personally are just kind of health food fads. Many of these are just very specific. So a little while ago, everyone was is drinking mushroom powder. It's not that these healthy in any way. Sometimes they are, sometimes that these are very specific things that can And you don't necessarily need to buy into any of everyone is saying that these are healthy. Number design and home decor and stuff like that. And think that on TV or on social media they look very I really don't want them. And I also think that we books, I just think that we might leave through just get used to them. We get bored and we just just sitting there, collecting dust. You also have or anything. And they are expensive, coffee that's like there. It's not really serving because they've already looked through it a couple coming over frequently, and you want them to have be worth it. Otherwise I'm going to go ahead collections. Now of course if you have collections display them in your home and they make you happy, kind of push on you because they keep releasing buying new ones. Like these Nintendo amiibos or Something like that. Number six, merch from your you can buy them. If they make you happy, it's that you're like a fan of something. You can without also so needing to buy all the merch that have been so much more enjoyable ever since just always like on the lookout of things to buy. stuff back into your suitcase. When it's a really small thing to remember it by. But I prefer it can actually use in my day-to-day life. Like this actually use this, I've had it for years. Number I'm going to get people angry with this one. wet. And then you can't keep them on the floor, and funky. So you would need to hang it up to dry. if a towel is used a bunch of times so it's not towel. Kind of like as a bath mat. And then after taking a shower, and then we throw it in really need a bath mat. Number nine, old product Keeping all of the old manuals around. Because what if something breaks. But the truth is with online nowadays. And they are taking up so much come in like 10 different languages. So you can up online first, if you really want to be sure, ones that you have. Number 10, anything Tik Tok now, because I'm not on Tik Tok. But I do see things that they bought because someone on Tik Tok it category. And I really don't think that it is because someone on Tik Tock showed it in a video. you see an ad for under a viral social media YouTubers kind of like buy into all of those super of that super silly stuff, that really just no quality. And just something totally ridiculous. that thing existed in the first place, it is very unlimited data. If it is not something that data package, I think it's like five um gigabyt or lowest that I can choose. So if you're not using less and pay less for your phone. Number 13, detox you. So you really don't need like detox stuff or think that there is something wrong with your your doctor instead of buying one of those often scrub. I cannot believe that I didn't think of using a washcloth for gently exfoliating my skin. for me because it's very gentle. Maybe if you scrub. But I actually think that if you have a that you don't really need to buy body scrubs over store. Every time I see a concept store, I always I personally do like to support like small, like it's fine if you want to do that of course. think that there's anything in there that you sell there often are, I always find myself asking like when would I actually use this? Like do I this? And so far, the answer has always been no. But I very rarely buy something there. Number totally it right now, but will be outdated a year you know what I mean. And I would also like to purses, shoes, whatever, into this category. lot of money to advertise for that that company, it's a whole thing. I personally think that you much better to invest your money in higher quality and sustainably produced or something, or you're instead of investing your money in ridiculously make it hard to keep your floors clean. Like those just anything that you have to like wash, or get Like who has the time? Number 18, anything that is that you can buy on shein, temu, places like that. cheap? There's a reason for it. And I'm going to and you're better off not buying it. Number what you need them for. When you're buying a think like, what am I going to use it for? And my goals? And if you're buying a laptop that architect or something, with like 3D modeling, that's a waste of money in my opinion. Number 20, And there are much better alternatives out there already have enough clothes. Shopping used to the stores without any kind of list or plan in that resulted in a closet that was bursting at the phone games. I think we're spending enough time on This is just my take on it. It's hard enough to That you can make it a lot easier for yourself very trendy and specific decor items that see that this is something that you're then it's one of those super trendy items that you throw pillows for your couch or your bed. Tes I practical. Because you have to take them off every a hassle. They're just there and they're in the and just keep it free. Number 25, expensive Most types of exercising can be done in the exact you have something that's like in good condition, expensive, the branded stuff. You don't need and that kind of workout clothes for that thing. 26, exercise equipment. I want to be careful with And anything that can help you exercise more and I do think that most things we don't really need. a high quality yoga mat, and a few small weights. of course you can always go to the gym. Nut make of those like super expensive elliptical trainers it's fine. Number 27, smart watches. I think it's just like a must-have. Whereas like a few years when I grew up, we didn't have any of that stuff. see why this is something that we actually need. life without a smartwatch and you're going to things that have to do with gambling in going to win something are astronomically small. so that you're not actually noticing that they I personally would say keep away from that that decor items everywhere. If we're talking about clutter-free and easy to keep clean, this is the tricky, because usually you can get really really tempting to keep buying new decor stuff. It's it fine. But you don't need it and your home is few that you really love. Number 30, clothing that duh. But I included it because I think most people be critical here. Ask yourself not like in case future. If you never wear it, in my opinion, then thing. Because clothing is there to be worn. So it use utensils and kitchen gadgets. Pizza cutters, great. But all of these things can also just be candles, home fragrance sticks, and home perfume things cost. Especially the sticks. Because you it's like EUR10 or more. I personally think that make it smell nice is make sure you're ventilating know what to say about this one. Number 34, All they do is dry out my skin and leave a weird it's not for me. This clearly feels to me like one invented to add just one more thing to the things need a body mist? Number 35, a bunch of different I think we kind of get indoctrinated to be like I don't know, I'm a woman and I'm supposed to if you just have a few different ones that you unless you love that stuff of course, you do you. them. Number 36 silly gadgets or gag gifts. These get it or give it to someone. It's so wasteful. to give someone something unique, then I don't with them. Or make something yourself. Instead endless beauty products. Where you buy a tub of the scent and there's a new one, so you buy a new there. And then you just stuff it somewhere. you're going to find it looking really gross. And simpler when I learned that it is much better for that I already know and love and use. And just it's okay to venture out and try something new buy something else. Number 38, holiday stuff. enjoy decorating and things like that. But every with things trying to sell us. And it feels like something in order to be able to participate in there are a lot of holidays in a year. So we're plates and Christmas ornaments. And just the whole using what you already have. And if you have stuff by decluttering it. Number 39, shoes that hurt one of the first thing that I remember is the fact thinking like why did I do that? Of course we can comfortable than others. I think that's fine. I think it's better to stay away from them. Number or otherwise uncomfortable. And this also goes and you're already like pulling at it to make it that is a very good sign that this is probably of use out of. Because it's going to be annoying. tell you how you're feeling. I cannot tell you sleeping masks, that record whatever, or play all for wellness. I personally think that wellness expensive gadgets. Number 42, magazines. Magazines that we want things that we see. And then, you you didn't even know existed. And now suddenly you also kind of blah, or something. I just don't enjoy them, that's fine. I think we probably don't if you enjoy paper planners and you use them all I'm here to say that if you are not one of those a paper planner will most likely not turn you that thing is just going to be sitting in your is there's text on them, so you cannot use them be there. Number 44, fillers and botox. I'm going it is your face. You decide. If you do want them, I have recently decided, or not recently, that I will always say no to botox and fillers. would be a good question to ask yourself why you why you feel like you need them. I think the most necessarily how it looks. Or it doesn't have to ourselves to others. And see someone else of our Or I look younger than she does. Like it doesn't on. So anything that you want because you're being other people get it, that should be a point where something because others have it in my opinion is it's about your face and your health and you're face. And I included it in this video because it do. Especially people my age. So let me know why I've decided to say no to botox and fillers. Let me know in the comments, because I'm not sure Number 45, a new phone every year or 2 years. The making new ones every year. And they only add like two small things. And they market it as if it is change everything in your life. When really, it's wouldn't even have noticed if they didn't market as long as it can last. And when you do need a or two models before the latest model. To save of not play that game that tech companies like you two sides of the story. Because for some people can just use their phone and they don't have to go using them when they're on vacation, to make you that case go for it. If none of these things apply but like for example in my case, I can just switch buy all of these very expensive light bulbs just 47, specific kitchen appliances. I think most and possibly a food processor. And everything if you actually get a lot of use out of it. need. I wouldn't say that they're a must-have. must-have. But an air fryer is basically an oven. side tables. Yes they look nice. But a side table kind of just another surface for people to throw it could be a good idea to get rid of your side and that is the shopping bag filled with unused that's great. But try to keep it to like the shopping. And not have that huge overflowing bag number 50, sugary drinks. Sugary drinks are not is bad for your health. So as an exception, yes tea, no sugar, it's going to be so much better for love to know your thoughts. Is there anything that things you think that people always say you need, please. Thank you so much for sticking around till gotten quite long. And a really big thank you as channel and helping me to keep making these videos post two extra videos a month. And I've been doing up on Patreon already. And it is a great way to to keep it very simple, and have everyone get the can cancel anytime as well. And if you join, then that are already up. And with this extra bit of all the business expenses that come with running as I want to be. And just keep the channel the spend a day with me a kind of vlog on there, with you can get access to that and all the other As always, questions, comments, conversations again next week. Byebye. Okay I have to confess in my kitchen. They've been there for so long,