I've got to declare an emergency, my pilot's unconscious. I need help up here. I need to get this thing on the ground I'm flying a King Air! Alright stay with me Miami LETS GO! It was Easter Sunday 2009 when 56 year old Doug a chartered King Air 200 turboprop. Doug and his Island Florida where they had just attended his Pilot was 67 year old retired Air Force Colonel and had been flying charter planes for the past and his passengers boarded the king air for Doug's wife and daughters sat in the passenger seat. A decision that would prove to be pivotal years earlier Doug had learned to fly in a small earning his private pilot's certificate, Doug set in aviation, Doug decided to resume flying he originally flew in training. Today would be to the light Cessna he was familiar with, to like the Space Shuttle. Fortunately Doug had a the radio. Knowing where the push-to-talk button knowledge about the complex King Air. After a Airport, pilot Joe Cabuk completed standard to fly the ATC assigned route. Joe also set however he has not yet set the autopilot Less than 10 minutes after takeoff as the King his initial contact with Miami Center. Tragically And immediately when I heard that I thought radio's. So I thought I have somebody in still in Fort Myers' Airspace climbing out so I hopped on the line with them and said hey I got a unconscious pilot this guy I'm trying to talk to Doug, I'm trying to talk to all these other airplanes... yelling across room, &quot;HEY, GET ME SOMEBODY THAT KNOWS SOMETHING ABOUT A KING AIR NOW!!! I felt kind of helpless, I don't want him to trying to determine, okay, if he disengages it I flew LearJets for a corporate company prior to coming to air traffic control. day, they're just trying to get me out of where possibly died and the passenger had taken any flight experience. Once I realized that he had I can simplify this plane as much as possible, as well. It's a plane no matter how complicated still lift, drag, rudder, yoke, basic instruments. This is the moment of truth for Mr. White. He knows if he disengages the autopilot it's which he knows practically nothing about. But also knows it will eventually reach its maximum the sky. It's one of those do-or-die moments everything we are for a chance to survive Well when I killed the autopilot the plane was had some real strong nose up trim. I thought and holed up in my life. I was used to little ol' 172. the cockpit and the pilots leg was up against and I found out later than I had electric King Air 200 school that day and I didn't know where outside of Joe's leg and the inside of the trim fingers on the notch of the trim wheel and rolled She's giving me the radio frequency for Fort Myers but I've got about four sets of radios looking at me there and I don't know which ones NAV COM 2, 1, 6, whatever it is. This is not my I switch frequencies? Do I push this green 2 that radio because that radio was my lifeline. It was the end of my shift, I was actually walking out of the TRACON, supervisor came out to catch me and said we had an emergency inbound from Miami Center and that the pilot And then I was getting a handoff for a King Air which I don't know a whole heck of know how much help I was going to be. I was giving information on how to get to the airport and a controller sitting instructor up in Danbury Connecticut that had trying to get him on the phone. All of a sudden Kari Sorenson on the telephone and he a Sunday morning with his briefcase and had Kari Sorenson, flight instructor, King Air fly it like a single-engine. He was crying pitch, I couldn't give him power settings. He guided him in a series of steps. A few altitudes how well he flew. When he was first handed At the end he was within 10 knots. Basically it to this day I know I had some uh a lot of divine set down like a butterfly with sore feet. And I got Calvary EMTs, and fire trucks, and police, and I can't through what we just went through it I'm gonna the engines. Anyway, there was an airline pilot, er copilot King Air time and he's volunteered to help me. So got Joe out and worked on him put him on a gurney and the plane. He was already gone. In a later interview Doug White said, &quot;Joe Cabuk set an example. He was a real professional pilot and a great guy. If I Doug made a decision to get back on the horse license, instrument, and multi-engine ratings. He after their earthquake as well as a couple of amputees for the veterans airlift command all in command in Niner Delta Whiskey after he Me and the Good Lord hand flying this