Robert hello everyone I'm making beds to plant vegetables These are red radish seeds and white radish seeds Did Uncle Son and Uncle Hoa come back yesterday? They 've been here for a week and they're back. Did they get some meat to eat? Yes But each person takes a little to eat. There's no dried pork down there like up here. Have you felt better in the past few days ? It's not that good. Your shoulders and neck still hurt . So I'll go to the market later and I'll go home. Give me a cold So Mom, please stay at home. I'll go to the market for a while. Sister, sell me a bunch of vegetables. Ok. Sell me some tomatoes and onions. Ok , buy them for 15,000 VND. or melon How much does Apple sell for a kilo ? 30,000 VND per kilo All is 33,000 VND . Buy some vegetables. These vegetables are mine . Buy fruit. Yes, seller. This is your fruit. Yes . Here. White dragon fruit And this is a red dragon fruit . Which one is delicious? The red one is sweeter . The red one is sweeter. How much is the red one ? 30,000 per kilo equals the same amount. How much fruit is one kilo ? This one is definitely better than the kilo. How much is it? 50,000 VND Sell me a kilo of tangerines Yes sister Oh why does this lady look familiar Did you buy my pig a few days ago Did you go to the market today Yes I went to the market today Come play at my house Yes That's it Your house is not far from here. It's close. But I'm very busy. I still have to go home and raise pigs and chickens. Spend a little less time, honey. When do I come down here? When I come to your house, I have dinner and then go home. But, but I I 'm so shy. Is your sister at home? Yes. You can come in and play hahaha How much is it? 35,000 VND. Let me pay. Okay, I'm embarrassed. What are you going to buy? Some food and fruit. Let me carry it. cho Let's go to my house and play first I'll buy some food Cook the rice Eat it then go home Yes Where is the best place to sell me a kilo of meat This is the best place this right here Exactly one kilo Let me pay Let you let me It's too embarrassing to pay . It's okay. I can pay . I just sold pigs and chickens. I have money. In my youth, I worked really hard to raise so many pigs and so many chickens. Is your motorbike in here? It's in there. Car Which motor is yours ? Is this one ? Can it only carry you? Okay, honey? Or should I take you ? I live in the mountains and only ride scooters. I don't know how to ride . So oh wow. Or don't ride at all. Oh, I'm so shy . No. Don't be afraid, don't be shy Because it was the other day I told him in advance He likes it very much Please go slowly, go quickly I'm very scared You're almost home yet I 'm almost there I'm right here Here I'm home I'm home Come in sit Here, let me go cook and wait for my sister to come home from work. Oh, she hasn't come home from work yet. Just sit here and wait for a while . Oh, that's really embarrassing. Don't be shy . Once you've finished cooking, she'll come home because it's time. It's time to rest. Okay, let me ask you a question. Have you introduced yourself first? Have you come down here ? I've already told you. Tell her in advance so she won't be shy. If you don't, suddenly coming down to meet her will be very embarrassing. Just sit down. Drink water and wait for her to come home. Cook vegetables, sister . Yes. Let me do it together So it's just you two in the same house Yes It's just you and your sister Usually your sister goes to work and you're alone at home Yes it's just you alone at home cooking and do the housework while he goes to work Let me cut the meat I wash the vegetables Just eat a little Yes, just eat half of it The rest will be put away later What time does he come home ? He usually comes home around 12 o'clock He Is it far from here to work ? It's close Are you going to work at the company? Yes, he'll probably be back soon. Boiled vegetables and stir-fried meat. I'm at home in the mountains alone. I often cook all by myself. I cook differently. Yes, the cooking is good. Do you think this is okay? No. Just wait a little longer. I live in the mountains and only have a wood stove, no gas stove . I don't even have any if I want to get wood to burn. Add onions to make it fragrant. That's very clever. It's too late, right? It must be overtime today . Every day. Hey, he's back. He's probably working overtime today. Just wait a little longer. If he's working an extra shift, he won't be home until 4 p.m. Wait for my brother to come home before eating. It's been a long time. Why? He's going to work today. Come back so late. Drink some water. Wait for him for a while and then eat together. Yes. It's already late. I haven't seen him come back yet. I'll have to go home in a while to feed my pigs and chickens in the mountains. They're hungry . He Here, here, Oh, you're so pretty, Oh, you're so pretty, you must already have a lover, I don't have one yet. She's been choosing for a long time but hasn't found a guy. Oh, she's probably not compatible. Fate is right . You're in the mountains, I don't know if she's compatible. with my sister. I think it's a good match. My sister. She only likes people who do business, but people who play around and are addicted to drugs. There are a lot of guys here that she doesn't like. Oh, she's a pretty girl. She's on a picnic. I also I want to see her but she won't come back today. I have to go back and tend the pigs and chickens. Let's eat now. I'll just make an appointment to come down another day. Let's eat first. She'll come back later. She'll eat later. Drink alcohol? No. I don't. drinking wine What a pity I can't meet her today. When I come back in a few days, I'll see her. Go ahead and eat. Yes, I'll just let you have it yourself . It's like this. The other day, I went up to your place to buy a pig. I see that you're a very nice person. I work hard but I'm not married. I want to be . I have a younger sister who is also older. There are many boys in this village but they don't agree with anyone. They say they don't work hard. They don't marry . I see you work hard. I want to introduce it to you. You don't have to work hard. You work normally. You also work normally. But you work very hard. Come up, you can see. Raising pigs and chickens is very hard . I also have an old mother at home, so the family burden is very big. I don't know if your sister will like it. It's also a coincidence that I just came here when I met you at the market. If I had made an appointment in advance, I would have met you. Yes , I did too. I don't understand how late she is coming home from work today. Let's make an appointment for another day. How old is she? He's almost 30 years old this year. I'm over 30 years old. That's a good match. Let's meet someday and see how it goes. Nowadays, girls are only afraid of boys who are greedy and addicted to drugs, but those who work hard. Doing business is what people like. When I come down, make an appointment in advance. I told her to come home and see her. I live here with only two sisters. Her parents both passed away early. There's no one else left. I want my sister to build a family. family. Have a stable life in the future. If you both agree, that would be great. Let's go down and meet one day and see how it goes. I'm also old and my mother keeps urging me to get married. Now my life is too hard to marry a girl. They don't like being in the mountains, so I hesitate. If I do n't get married or not get married, it won't work. My parents are old and they also want their children to have a family. Peace and quiet Even if you close your eyes and give up, you won't have to think about anything. Now that my parents are old and their children haven't yet built a family, it's very miserable for them to think a lot . Let 's eat. So when I come down, I'll make an appointment. Yes, when Come down, let 's meet today. I 'm sorry. Eat more rice. Yes, I'm full . Eat an orange. Drink water and eat fruit. It's delicious. Yes, it's delicious . The white dragon fruit is not as delicious as the red one. Eat more. Oh, where are the pigs you bought from me? I want to take a look. Yes, over there. Has it grown much yet? It's grown a lot. It looks great. It's eating very hard. Go and see . Eat some more. Okay, I won't eat anymore. Go take a look. After a while, I'll go home. Your garden is quite big. Yes , this is my herd of geese . Oh, the geese are so big. About 4 kg to 5 kg. Looking so big, they must be more than 5 kg each. Where are the pigs? Let's see. This is in here. Oh, it's really big . Here, you can take better care of it. It looks much more beautiful. Did you buy another one in here? Yes, you bought another one in addition. Before that, you bought a whole one. Another pig is mixed in. It's very difficult to eat. Come here, look at its fur. It's smoother. Up there, your fur looks longer. You give it vegetables and bananas. It likes to eat it. Come here. You take good care of the pig. Look at the pig, it's more beautiful than up there. I herd twice a day, but the food is only bananas and wild vegetables, so its fur is longer. It eats very hard. So sister, I'm going home late. I have to go back to herding pigs and chickens. My chickens and pigs are hungry. See you tomorrow. Otherwise, I'll come down to see her later. Yes, I'll come down again in a few days. I'll tell her to stay at home to meet her. Yes. Can I go out from here? Okay, then I'll go home . I'm back from the market . Yes. I bought some things. Hey , I bought something . I bought milk and some fruit for mom. This is fresh milk. This is powdered milk for the elderly. I bought a few things here for mom. After I finished, I went up the mountain to raise pigs. Tell me this place belongs to you. Mom is in a lot of pain So is it still painful? Or let me go find a medicinal plant to treat colds for you. Yes, let's go get the medicine. So I'll go find the medicine. This is a forest root that's very good for treating colds. I'll grill it until it's hot . Clean it up and take it to treat mom's cold. Mom, sit here and let me treat your cold. It's just a pain here. It takes a while to get better. Do you feel any better ? It's a little better. But it's gradually getting better. So, mom, stay here. I'm going up the mountain to feed the pigs. Yes, go ahead and go up the mountain