Hey everyone, so as many of you know, I am science. And in particular, the broad our culture, influencing the masses to varying and disarm them. Today I want to talk about field of physics that has been picking up steam What the heck is quantum mysticism, It's challenging to encapsulate this phenomenon well. The essence of quantum mysticism goes like therefore if magic can be framed using that magic is real. You see, quantum is shrouded in mystery. It is typically spoken were akin to the occult. This is largely due True comprehension is reserved for physicists and as the power of this theory lies exclusively satisfied with hollow, often misleading conceptual topic is typically explained to the masses, who that this area of science must somehow be For whatever reason, people tend to be interested So instead of wanting to learn about Newton's understanding with some competence in basic high like quantum mechanics, which most of us have zero lack of prerequisite knowledge faced by anyone When media outlets attempt to satiate this desire unknown, they take lots of liberties and brings a lot of baggage to the table. Even with "What the Bleep Do We Know?", the concepts walks away with a false sense of comprehension, or can lead people to purchase whimsical books and forego legitimate medical treatment in and sometimes even get roped into a cult or two. later we will get to the meat of the deception "quantum", and deliberate misinterpretation of But I would like to start somewhere more confusion that enables the whole show. it all stems from a misunderstanding of basic it is the word "energy". What is energy? Even just probably come to mind. Here is the way quantum So as you can see, to the quantum mystic, whatever they want it to mean in order to sell to selling. But in science this word has a very For maximum effect, please purge yourself of every as the term has been completely convoluted slate. Act as if you've never heard this word is the capacity to do work. The end. Now to Again, in society, this word means many things. or even a location, so let's again purge ourselves means in science. Work refers to an action causes a displacement of that object. So work is and it moves, like pushing a box across the floor, work, which is what causes motion. And that's all and nothing more. To elucidate further still, we energy is the energy an object possesses by virtue objects through collisions. Potential energy is position in a field. Lifting an object into the which is then converted into kinetic energy as a lot of potential energy, which is released as transfer of kinetic energy, and temperature of the particles in a system. Hotter systems of systems of particles are moving slower on average. which describes the potential of some molecule which is simply a rearrangement of atoms. All over in my classical physics playlist, should Finally, matter itself is a form of energy, Einstein's E = mc^2. E is energy, m which is a big number, and when squared is an big number equals lots of energy. But even When matter is converted to energy in a fusion phenomenon we have been describing. It can be so even in this abstract context it is never "everything is energy", it's actually a true But this does not mean that there is a magical yourself with your mind, or any of the other bogus not an object. It is not a substance. It is not It is a property of an object or system that can typically in the form of work. That's what energy Unfortunately, colloquial usage of the word People say things like, "This room has such good which is acceptable if acknowledged as gets a good impression from the room. It conveys that there is a literal substance emanating which is magically perceived by your third Further compounding the confusion is the fact that in particular potential energy, can have positive zero, negative means less than zero. It's in physics. By sheer linguistic coincidence, and negative to mean bad, as in having a positive are totally unrelated. So when people remove the arithmetic domain in which it has actual meaning, the result is totally meaningless. There is no is no context in which this makes any sense except used improperly, it is simply an unfortunate meanings in a language. The literalization and renders them susceptible to cranks and con Speaking of cranks and con men, let's get the primary figures, if not THE primary of quantum mysticism in the 1990s. That is Deepak rose to prominence on the success of The Quantum Alternative to Growing Old". "Quantum Healing", piggybacked on the broader and he rode the tidal wave of science-flavored and fortune. As you can see, "quantum" is of deception, and it only serves Given that Chopra has published nearly a hundred thing he's written, nor would I ever subject theme across his body of work is the power of the power in healing oneself as well as shaping or He describes the phenomenon of "perfect health", selling point for his ultra-expensive wellness attend and learn these techniques, which we could never feel pain, and even halt the aging process, even Deepak himself was unable to put that last and he looks his age. His other favorite us that consciousness creates reality, another So as we can see, even for those who aren't plenty to bait you with. The selling points of themselves. Realizing your infinite potential, notions which can ensnare suggestible people who overwhelmed by reality. It's emptiness disguised which has served as the basis for Scientology and fair, not every quantum mystic has their own cult, should we really look the other way when people public? How is it that are they able to do this? First, he uses his Indian identity to put out an air of ancient Eastern wisdom. sage, and he also was at one point a real Second, he is a third-degree black belt in the the best there's ever been at this impressive use and in precisely which combinations so as to when in reality, most of what he says is utterly quote generator online called "Wisdom of Chopra", twitter feed, and equipped with a randomizer, of text that are completely indistinguishable you. These are all statements that were randomly which is something Deepak actually said. And here it is. Did you get it? Don't worry So as you can see, it's a simple formula. Dazzle their eyes glaze over and they open up their worth of 150 million dollars, it would seem You see, this particular flavor of gibberish person. This would be the secular individual but has no institutionalized god to put it upon. seeking and affirming divinity. And to this end, along with all the transcendence, permanence, without any of the burdens of organized religion. the outdated social practices and conservatism of ties to the ancient world, wild unsubstantiated Even for those who aren't looking for god, there certain desires that are easy to tap into. We see The Spontaneous Fulfillment of Desire. The Wisdom Within. It's marketing. People which gives way to perfect control over their in the universe and connected to everything in it. of their target demographic in order to most are selling one thing only. Identity. You see, a A brand of fragrance may be selling elegance. A of being EXTREME! But the quantum mystic, on the It's the convenient sale of an enlightened Given that we live in the internet age, this fad Many versions of this narrative can be found all each with their own flavor, but the core message pick on one of the bigger ones, which is called amidst a backdrop of delightful animations. No, crystals are not alive. There are very alive, including metabolic activity, which means response to stimuli, growth, and reproduction. The word life has a rigorous definition, and No, they are not. We are discovering some more key vibration, and frequency. These are used just like and molecules vibrate doesn't mean they can cast means number of cycles per unit time and has no defined phenomenon. When the mystic says which doesn't mean anything, just like good energy says that something is emitting frequencies, it is magic, and they want to use a scientific Health is not "the natural state" of things. the setup for a snake oil pitch. And it's a Frequencies of what? The word frequency referencing a physical phenomenon that can This graphic is meaningless. We don't have orbs of basis, it does not have a basis in invisible Again, what is this? Frequency of what? in physical reality. Headaches and cancer This is such unadulterated fantasy that No, this does not happen. If it did, It is a fabrication aimed at people who don't The translation here is that crystal healing works work, they won't work, because they only work when No, they aren't. That doesn't mean not exclusively resemble platonic solids. No, it doesn't make sense. It sounds like magic. Just saying "doesn't that make They are called periods, not octaves. There are no sponges made of 100% silicon, it is silicon. This I've ever heard. I can't understand how any they hear things like this. Ok that's enough on This doesn't mean anything. It's just people nodding their heads, pretending they What is this? Subatomic particles are not What are we looking at? What do these symbols explain anything is offered, just random People love cool shapes, so the quantum mystic I'm sorry, how? This shape is the root of platonic solids in here? How does this shape My favorite part is how it's the source of musical but they're still based on this? That's No, there are no scientists trying to explain concept. Science is the study of the physical science, and there is no evidence that anything the problem with quantum mystics. If someone the supernatural, they can go ahead and do so. is ludicrous. Videos like these are just rapid who want to believe in magic, but also want They are willfully ignorant to the point where find out if it's being used properly, because precedent over fact. And these are the types and attend the retreats, and otherwise fork over Getting back to a more general from Deepak to YouTube, a central theme So that's the story. Consciousness creates world, consciousness is all that exists. Now uttered between stoned philosophy undergrads at this notion is physics, that this deep truth Well, it absolutely isn't, but that then begs It's obvious that it's just a self-help Manifest your desires! With only So again, if the notion of consciousness creating how can these mystics claim as much? This stems from deliberate misinterpretations The most notable such misinterpretation is I have a tutorial on this topic as well as in my modern physics playlist, so please head over learning more about it. But to briefly summarize slit experiment was pivotal in demonstrating everything is both particles and waves. Light is Electrons are particles, but they are also waves tiniest things, everything is particles and waves, to us. It doesn't matter that we can't visualize tells us, so that's how reality works. The way the allowed to diffract through two slits to generate as makes sense for a wave. We can do this with and in fact we can even do it with an individual electron is a compelling demonstration of the wave are not interfering with the process, the particle wave. But when we try to determine which slit it one, like a particle. It's incredible! The act Observations influence external reality. At that charlatans spin. In fact, it is impossible without affecting the system. Observation requires In the submicroscopic realm, We can't spy on an electron the way we can Animating a little eyeball simply watching the something about an electron involves interacting photons that interact with the electron, and It is the physical act of taking a measurement There is no magic, there is no voodoo, and there know they are being watched, or that we can Something similar can be said for the Heisenberg Uncertainty principle, the concept of physics they attempt to reference which means is nothing in physics that lends any credibility or some kind of mental construct. One can engage and it's not a totally meritless intellectual kind of empirical basis in physics is objectively doesn't understand physics, or is lying, or both. It is a far more boring word than many to the minimum amount of any physical entity photons are quanta. A photon is the smallest quantization tells us that physical properties tiniest indivisible subunit. So there is a tiniest and all values are multiples of Quantization is a core principle of quantum It does not refer to lasers or interdimensional the mystic seeks to infuse it with. courtesy of Deepak and pals, where else does this pockets with this brand of pseudoscience? Let's of quantum mysticism involves a total distrust the body can heal itself, so real medicine is another example of how the alt-health industry There are some people who so desperately want to that they will blindly trust anyone who tells them doctors in favor of magic crystals and healers. the symptoms, while alternative medicine treats of the truth, as these phony treatments which is the slight mitigation of physical Essentially, if you believe your pain should be their hands over your body, then a shallow, But it is not causally related to the item or a magic wand and shouting "Abracadabra!", if the So all the "power of the mind" rhetoric is not effect, apart from disappearing rapidly, does ailment. All disease has a molecular basis, and molecules, like drugs. These are compounds like enzymes and receptors, so as to which reverses or otherwise addresses We don't really have time to talk as that's not the point of this video, but I have as well as others on biochemistry and biology Otherwise rest assured, alternative medicine Western medicine treats the cause. Anyone who says So what are these treatments precisely? Well as magical healing powers. Pushers of this narrative that beyond not feeling obligated to substantiate throw out vaguely scientific sounding word target demographic will not scrutinize them for that magic is real, and are willing to pay money This could take the form of placing stones on practice of reiki, which is just waving one's from a "universal source". It's essentially faith Christian god. Each charlatan has their own jargon they're all the same. They use words like quantum, with the goal of propping up pseudoscience All the while, the story is spun of how arrogant powerful healing techniques, thinking themselves this accusation lies in the fact that it literally believe they have magic powers, like that they have access to a tier of reality that more narcissistic and childish delusion than this? outrage. Let's say someone goes to a reiki the practitioner to be warm and personable. They with calming colored lights and pleasant ambience. of people are listening to these days. It all leading to a placebo effect that makes them in such a case one could say that there is no the price of a massage but not get one, then practitioners of these treatments are somewhat are not legitimate solutions for serious medical But not everyone in this culture displays this Some people get swept up in the notion that and that doctors and hospitals are not to be saying that this is a dangerous way of thinking, in favor of New Age voodoo, if this is prompted a criminal act. People who prevent those in need be formally prosecuted, especially in the case of Beyond these extreme circumstances, it is an is not regulated whatsoever. What this means is their shop or on a website, it is not scrutinized, in any way. There is no entity in place to monitor under the domain of any kind of actual science would have jurisdiction. Imagine what would happen new drug was a treatment for some kind of heart In what world would that be allowed to happen? bald-faced lies are impossible. But in the healers sell treatments that are truly nothing, cubes. If the consumer doesn't have the sense to of any kind would mean the death of alt-health, any manner so as to be considered legitimate. of the quantum mystic is preposterous. The notion practices constitute some kind of ultimate truth, away to pump you full of nasty chemicals to make Humans had an average lifespan of 30 all Our current lifespan and quality of life is owed enabling the treatment, and in some cases and other maladies. Science is the real deal, The mystics are the ones slinging snake oil for Wand of Universal Power" on sale for only 150 This is where one must distinguish between more damaging narrative of the quantum mystic. The some cases does actually help people. The path to attains happiness and personal growth through some basis for anyone to tell them that they didn't. highly specific claims about the nature of These false claims lead people away from medical scientific community, which inevitably rears its and other cultural defects that end up killing should be ignored. It should be exposed If you doubt how far this can go, you some people are willing to commit, as well as the I'm talking about cults. Quantum mysticism is Take for example a YouTube channel called a million subscribers. At first glance, this offers the same transparent self-help mumbo he evolved, his tactics went beyond this. Allow me I'm not being facetious here. When I say that But every cult has a story, so let's see how this out in the self-help realm. How to be attractive. said girls "squirt" once you get them. Obviously a dive into the pool of mysticism. Here's him So like many others, quantum mechanics is the well So we've heard this script before. Physical Given his confidence on the subject, he No, thinking about something really hard it just leads people to a false sense of wisdom, which is fertile grounds for This is what cult leaders do. Insist that to the contrary is absurd. That voice of don't listen to it. Listen This is called gaslighting. It means to manipulate their own sanity. It's what sociopaths So basically, I am right because I am right because you are deceiving yourself. Cult leaders mechanisms so as to be impervious to criticism, Yes, Leo is god. You heard him right. He is omniscient. Even though just Funny how an omniscient deity Passengers, we have reached cruising altitude. that Leo is identical to any lunatic raving on a frying pan for a hat, and would walk right that no one is rational 100% of the time. but even highly rational, intelligent people can through destabilizing events. Some people are to take high-octane psychedelic drugs and allow Some people have experienced intense trauma, leader like him. This is why most cults start who look outwards for answers about themselves. That's right, folks. Whatever Leo is better than all gods before I dunno, sounds kind of Jesusy to Wait a minute, I'm god too? Wow, where do I sign up? By now we is peddling. So where does this get really If you think it sounds like he is Let's hear it a little more clearly. And one more time. Remember from his rant before where he the devil. Only death will save the viewer. He Later in this video he issues a disclaimer stating others, but it's not enough. Fragile people hear And guess what? Some of them have tried. Here are outlining suicidal thoughts and actual suicide Prior to COVID Leo was planning and mentioned the desire to start a he hasn't been able to physically separate Who knows what he could do in person? So It is one of many cults in this landscape. And Very bad things. The most insignificant of these members. Stepping up from there, cult leaders tend These people are largely just predatory sociopaths advantage of others. We tend to mythologize people it's something out of a storybook, but there are all the time. And if you want to see just how bad suffering this cult has caused is immeasurable. What if someone had stopped it decades ago before precisely this shouldn't have been done? So why I don't have the answers regarding this larger people, and cooperation from various federal all we can do is identify these toxic people and To that end, the only way I can help is to such as the false claims of As this channel has always been largely I've chosen to write a book containing the sort covering pseudoscience related to fields called "Is This Wi-Fi Organic? A Guide If you're interested in getting some tips on how confusion to vicious hoaxes and con men, give