(static hissing) - I think honestly, if you based around arguments that exist pretty much exclusively on Twitter, you should be let out blindfolded (suspenseful music) I've been thinking a lot about this Tweet. Usually this is the part of the video where I stop to give who aren't extremely online so they actually know what's going on. But I know that right just feverishly skipping around this video to find the part where I just respond. So I'm gonna start with that. I don't think it's at all subtle with his video is to spotlight towards James Rolfe and his work. He's trying to do what artists often do, take an emotion or an experience and use their art as a Except Dan isn't making art, he's making YouTube videos. That is the insecurity Dan is the feeling that he has trapped that he himself is worried, James reflects this insecurity because from Dan's perspective, James clearly doesn't treat his videos as anything more than YouTube content. His videos are often clumsily made. His style and format have for over a decade. James is complacent. This is in contrast to James constantly framing his work as a production as a project by a filmmaker. Dan sees himself as a mirror of James a dark mirror, a black... This is like an episode of &quot;Black Mirror.&quot; Here is a shot where Dan projects (soft music) Ultimately, Dan has to not with James, but with either as a YouTube slop producer who's convinced himself he's an artist or an artist who's trapped In the narrative of the video, Dan sees James as a failed filmmaker because on some level But Dan doesn't know James and increasingly if he steps he sees James isn't to be an artist. He is succeeding at doing a James isn't trying to use his channel to make himself look like He's using a reliable content He's just a normal man. And in exactly the same way, criticism like this is the You wanted Dan to have made a instead of something unexpectedly introspective and self-critical. And you're pretending he's because you wanted to make a shallow dunk on Dan Olson, your lolcow. To be more blunt, what this is exactly the point of Dan's video. That's the basic pro Dan argument. I admit it's the one I defaulted to when I first found out this but honestly, if that was I probably would've made a video. I do have another perspective but for that I actually do need context. (suspenseful music) To accommodate as many I'm gonna start as basic as I can. In the 1960s, computer scientists Lolcow content has for a long time been one of the most profitable Also to some extent the but especially YouTube. It's casual use has widened over time. But the basic idea of a who has been identified as a fool. They have a lot of bad opinions or they're really incompetent or they're just a very And so a kind of anti hoping to milk them for And if you go on YouTube and your recommended feed will with lolcow videos. Videos highlighting strange, usually accompanied by a in an oversaturated thumbnail, which I wouldn't know anything about. This has a lot of crossover with general drama commentary channels, but it's basically the difference between standard e-celebrity gossip and a full on freak show. You might call it a dunk video It's generally seen as but also that doesn't really because most people don't as a moral act. In a real life freak show, maybe you'd have felt some residual guilt for ogling the weirdos, but this is the internet Again, it's just mildly trashy content on the level of like a TLC reality show. But also YouTube in as trashy content. It is basically one level up from TikTok, and then everything above it is where you start to There is the complicating factor that these videos were about actual people and not characters made for laughs. So inevitably these types of videos lead to a lot of abuse, harassment in some cases, doxing, Basically imagine a bunch who want to role play as the people that bullied them in But as is usually the case online, most people don't piss in the popcorn. They just passively watch and it's entertainment like anything else. And then the video essays had (suspenseful music) People tell you something or scripted content, but the real difference between than other types of channel to be better than YouTube. I'm most likely biased as someone who also makes video essays. But I would say it was more aspirational rather than just trying to be pretentious. Video essays are the sort of people who look at YouTube drama or lolcows or other trashy entertainment and say, &quot;But why is that? &quot;And what can we do to They don't just let you enjoy the slop, they twist it and try to make which is really the worst who just wants the slop after another day of underpaid Sorry, I got political again. The trouble is that the usual is kind of cyclical. If you are knowingly clicking on one is because you are already open to and interested in the So how does a video essayist they actually need to reach? Dan Olson's video, I is only one in a series of experiments to try to solve this problem. The video has the surface of being essentially a The angry video game nerd is a relatively well-known Used to be one of the most and in some ways you of his own success. AVGN has been highly influential to a lot of angry man but the style has also stagnated and now feels more like a relic. Especially for the types of audience that do gravitate to video essays. I can imagine a lot of young adults with some residual cringe and early teens watching Honestly, a lot of people about things they enjoyed as teenagers and look for any opportunity I'm not a baby, I'm a big boy, and I'll demonstrate this how much I hate the things The point is James Rolfe and for a lengthy lolcow dunking video. And there's his name and initially it does Dan is baffled by James's He breaks down the to adapt the angry He picks apart elements &quot;A Movie Making Nerd.&quot; Why is James talking he made as a teenager in The most and basically only Is this James again trying to as a legitimate filmmaker. Is he oblivious to the with a camera in your does not make you a filmmaker? Is he oblivious to this Dan uses the basic premise as audience bait and all for a greater purpose. He is commenting both on but also the mentality that often fuels this kind of mean-spirited obsession. In fact, a significant chunk of the video is dedicated to highlighting who this video would naturally attract. The lolcow seeking viewer was tricked into watching something feeding into their own worst impulses. It's instead demanding they question their own motivations and insecurities. It turns out you were never You were watching a video essay. (suspenseful music) I think the strategy in and of itself explains some of the negativity. Earlier I called, I don't in a series of experiments to The problem is how do you How do you reach an audience of people who are not already looking I don't think I'm the only of societal exhaustion. People feel unsatisfied and their own political reality. Yeah, like I said, there's a video essay, but I think at least among the audience that gravitates to YouTube, this exhaustion rarely to get educated and involved to rise up against the powers that be. Mostly people just want a distraction. They want to offload some of that stress and existential dread. That to them is the value of YouTube. It's called capitalist realism and it's coming for your children. This shit is annoying. You wanna start lecturing people and our society now? Invite introspection with the cheapest flavorless to enjoy my freak show? Fuck you! And fuck your video cassette intro. I have a lot of personal I try to make videos that encourage people to think more critically and what it might say about Inevitably, some people come along and think I'm doing an angry and then suddenly get the industrial revolution or the definition of media literacy, which nobody wants to hear about. So I'm already pissed off in the first place. But you know what the worst part is? The hypocrisy. All these comments about this is totally a hit piece. Spending 75 minutes couching and self-indulgent arguments that your central takeaway was to basically call James a damn ass. Here's the basic issue, if you do something but while you do it, you're still doing it. Hanging a lampshade is an adequate cover, and this is the inevitable outcome of trying to do something with a type of content you The video does take more It does lean into the dunks to the lolcow hate them. Even if you can justify it by saying, Dan later leans back to You could also say this is someone has produced, which is fair game, but Dan often struggles to distinguish between being critical of James' - Is all this an or just bad writing? Is self-reflection absent because James doesn't experience it, or is it merely his - We've already been I've mentioned before, released late last year. Another one of these which has frequently been lumped in with criticism of Dan's video. I don't know how I've ended three times on this channel. I promise I don't just That video was as functionally a YouTube drama video. Call out dunk video on and cringe video maker, despite the fact that parts of the video were also a criticism Hypocrite. So on the one hand, it was a massively popular video that spread important messages queer erasure and exploitation, but it also did take the form of content that resulted in the the video maker openly condemned. In the case of both there's a sticking point. You try to use the master's trash slop to dismantle the master's (suspenseful music) I feel a certain lack of alongside both being pegged both Dan and I have been something neither of us chose in reference to a community of YouTubers Loosely, BreadTube is or was an audience demographic of people who enjoyed content produced by outspokenly, left-leaning channels, and also some friends of those channels. As far as I can tell, the is people who are on Hbomberguy's, Donkey Kong 64 charity live stream. Dan and I both were just Besides this, we also and have occasionally replied although we have never spoken in private. I understand if it sounds like I'm trying to shrug off a bias, I'm sure there will be people who extremely predictably as a desperate defense of Really, he demanded I do rule in together. You know, I actually mentioned and nobody knew you. I would feel uncomfortable an acquaintance. We are not close, and this distance to me also extends to what we make and how we present ourselves online. I find Dan intimidating for exactly the reasons he Dan is a clear professional of the technical elements of his craft. His videos involve a lot of research, but his scripts are often very When I saw this video, wasn't to identify with Dan's position, it was to identify with James. And that made parts to this I mean literally Dan Olson my own disorganized sloppily sounds like my idea of hell. There's a lingering question as to whether YouTube videos Dan expresses this as an insecurity which would indicate to think this way. But as is appropriate the trainer thought abruptly and is not explored further. I was disappointed. For me, the messy amateurness because frankly, I've never known what I was doing on this platform. I often struggle to put together in a coherent way. I find research, especially overwhelming and stressful, and I also have no idea I've made videos that are out focus. I've made videos where the light is wrong and the colors are wrong, and this video will also This is the first time and it probably didn't look great. Apparently, I'm not supposed When Dan sits perplexed at James' completely asked backwards struggling to comprehend how a person who has done this as a job for years could be this incompetent. I couldn't think of a James Rolfe has admitted to and while we're not one homogenous group, I have zero issues understanding that led to those screws in that wood. I mean, he probably just thought of it as an immediate solution Makes sense to me. James getting weirdly sentimental in his playground, makes sense to me. Dan did not acknowledge and maybe he just didn't Maybe he thought it would of psychoanalysis. Maybe Dan himself has ADHD and therefore saw it as irrelevant. Again, we are not a monolith. There's a strange kind of irony in watching someone express and in the process of making you feel insecure about your own. When I watch these kinds of videos, I see myself as a pale imitation as an amalgamation of online stimuli with no real individual but lazy facsimiles of Like right now, I'm not even actually projecting these I'm just editing it in with Adobe Premier, and I even felt the Do YouTubers deserve the role Can the platform even sustain a desire to rise above throwaway entertainment? Well, firstly as Dan's video highlights, there's nothing actually wrong The only reason he treated it as a problem was how it reflected his own discomfort. This is a miserable, and everyone deserves a The jesters of the world and there's two things First, sometimes Jesters spoke up and said things about our society that people needed to hear in a way that they otherwise never would. And second, at all times, if they'd get their head If I had something to say it's that it's a victim of other art forms with and less oversight. Economic pressures, or to have our work seen contort us into strange unfamiliar forms. I sincerely do not think Dan Olson set out to make a lolcow dunking video and then quickly covered it I think that's just so with what the video is doing, and it's unavoidable that a lot of people making this criticism If you wanna see Dan go watch his nostalgia No need whatsoever for behind irony and self-criticism. What this video represents in an inescapable context. In the context of the baggage in the context of their on a platform, in the context of that platform and in the context both and different ways of thinking. I don't believe Dan milked I think it's a difficult tightrope to walk when you want people to truly understand what led you to a negative place, but I don't think that means In fact, I think videos like this encourage a huge amount of discussion into areas people are After all, that is what Goodar often does. I am a YouTube video essayist and I'm a clown. Honk. Oh fuck wait. Was this a So one of the problems with as an example of something Tweets are quite easy to look up. In the past, I've had this problem where I blur out someone's and they still decide I'm trying to go after them specifically and then they obsess over I'm truly trying to seek a beef free life. So what I showed here of several Tweets with no specific author. If you immediately went to look it up to go argue with the person Thanks for watching. If you are wondering why I've been gone for a couple of months, I started working on a video about fallout and it ended up becoming on this channel. And then I had a lot of In general, I'm getting more into the idea of putting together larger scripts, which does slow down what I put out. If you like the channel, over on the Patreon or or sending a tip via Ko-fi. It's really appreciated and it's the only form of support we get while we work on these videos. Other than that, have a good month and see you soon.