[MUSIC PLAYING] What? Wow! Don't you lie to me. [LAUGHS] Professor Plum's about Good evening, friends. My name is Mr. Verde. Welcome to Mystery Five world-renowned detectives Plum, Colonel Mustard, Mr. are arriving on the scene where Sparkman has gone missing. The only witness was the butler, Buenos tardes. I am Horacio Del Garza. In order to win this must collect clue cards by mini games throughout the night. These cards will help Who did it, in what room, One card has been pulled Those three cards create The answer is here, To help them get started, five clue cards. Our guests should be What do I got to do to get Gentlemen, my name is Do all your note taking in To start tonight's to the kitchen for [MUSIC PLAYING] This game is called &quot;Blackout.&quot; The room will go dark. Someone will enter the room. And whatever he's you get started on a riddle. Let the games begin. [MUSIC PLAYING] So I was the first but I really couldn't A pool floaty? A balloon animal? I have no idea. But you know what? Defense wins championships. Let's just box out everybody, Upper hand? Me. Dr. Claret immediately so I decided to reach I know. I've learned something I have. I have. I have the most valuable thing. I have no doubt it Dr. Claret was blocking out really sure how he got the title is not one. Anyways, I decided and I felt some sort but I have no idea I learned something Advantage, Colonel. I feel very good Now is the time you go throughout and you find any If you find a key that key with the tag, it will This time I will release you. And when the cuckoo is the time to come back to the game. Go. I like you, Horatio. It's good to meet you. Mr. Green, thank you, sir. I'm indifferent. Wow, I wonder what Cory found. Leads him out this way. I think I'll follow. What did you feel, Colonel? I can't I tell you I'm no dummy. I felt a pool floatie so I went to the pool. I thought about following but he's not really the type So I decided to go to the house I think Mr. Verde No, Mr Verde did not. That was nasty. Should the clues be Riddles aren't my decided to follow if they left any breadcrumbs. He kept stating all the clues and I've been in every Just like that, I on the ground with his ID Got him. Oh, Ralph, ASAP. I think I should call Ralph. Hello, fair sir. What are you doing, doctor? What are you doing, doctor? I've never been Mr. Obvious, more hidden. Supposedly, they're in plain I took a lap around the house, but sometimes it's all about at the right time. [PHONE RINGING] Huh? Hello? Listen closely. An anonymous witness one with reasonable cred, take place in the room The room with the is the master bedroom. Just so you know, when we know that is not You can cross that off the list. I'm but a few minutes and already my patience Where in the world is it? I think maybe That is saddening. [MUSIC PLAYING] Hey, Sparky. It's Ralph. Thanks for calling me back. Can you go out to your black A black pickup truck. It's Sparky's. It's right here. Inside should be that receipt Receipt. If you find a name that person is as trustworthy They couldn't harm a butterfly. On the receipt, I see Mr. Blue so now I know it's Coby, cut. It's valuable information. Let's go find some more clues. Mr. Blue Jay checking in. Always been a big board game This should be a This feels promising. I do you love a good mystery. Think like a bad guy. You're supposed to [KNOCKING] I answer the door, hands me what I assume Tell me and only me. Tony's Pizza. Here you go. Is it supposed to But I hear Ty and You should probably look at it. How did he get here? Show me what the pizza says. I need you guys to give me OK. I will help you Well, that's a good deal. He's weak. He's weak. He's big, but he's weak. That's a deal. That's a deal. OK. Ah, he locked us out. Garrett, you dirty dog. What's his name? That's the professor. Oh, OK. OK. After searching every nook I realized my blunder. I needed to look I have found the key. It looks like a leaf, It is a key. Now I have to decide, And the answer is, yes. It's absolutely frigid. There's pepperoni. Spell something. Take a picture of it, and then The pizza had 4-1-3 written but Cody was right on my the evidence. I got it. You can eat the pizza. What are you going to do Throw it in the pool. You wouldn't. Oh, he would. [LAUGHS] I love it. I love it. Oh, sometimes you I have found the key. No. I am also soaked. Wow, that's commitment. While you're wet, can I hope this is the world's It looks like It looks like it's something Point, Coby, Ty. I have found a key I can only imagine it Hello, Colonel. I have found nothing. I have a clue. You have a clue? Yes. A real clue? I have what may lead So you do not have a clue. You have-- OK, well, don't come calling That was a close call. To explain the game we find a clue card what Cross the dining Gentlemen, the clock has rang. 6:00, and it is time [MUSIC PLAYING] Gentlemen, welcome This game is called There is an easel You must study that mosaic and First person to do Go. Right here right now. That ain't gonna cut. That's-- wow. This one's going to be What? I already forgot it. If you want to know why, I have what you call Done. No! That is correct. Congratulations, Mr. Green. Come on. Come on. You can join me in the Oh, what do we have here? Another clue for Mr. Verde. I think I'll keep [MUSIC PLAYING] The Butler told be unlocked during decided to go upstairs and I walk into the bathroom, with a key frozen in it. This wasn't here earlier. So I thought, why Oh, yeah, mate. I ain't stupid. Oh, wow, that's heavy. Last round, I did get the but I tried it on everything so I went back outside to see if I'd missed something. Tony's pepperoni's, so good So the fridge? There's only a few better Beyond the pool is a buried to help crack the case. Oh. How has no one done this yet? Inside the piano bench, And inside I found a clue that and there's some gaps. And it says to play the And any time you that's going to give need to fill in the blanks. [MUSIC PLAYING] Did you find something? Nope. I found a suspicious-looking by the pool table, that I need to use the on them to form some Hopefully that solution to the lock on the cabinet. I solved the equation, and I found this slide puzzle. One step closer to a clue. No-- Go away, Colonel, as you did Don't come calling to I'm realizing I probably I shooed him away, and [MUSIC PLAYING] You're never going to That is not your skill set. Mr. Claret, you are The fake doctor in real life is I will trade you my information. I'll talk to you later. I started off rapidly, but now I'm finding nothing, is scurrying about as if [MUSIC PLAYING] So I'm so close to I love Wheel of Fortune. Duffel bag. I need a duffel bag, The clue said, look outside I found a pergola I knew I had to be close. Nothing seemed to stand out Let's go. Oh. Oh, oh, I feel like I just This is my first clue. Well, more work [MUSIC PLAYING] Plan A, hairdryer, too slow. Plan B, iron. That should only Plan C, that worked Let's just unplug those [MUSIC PLAYING] Gary, I got this one. We got to put this tells us about how to Turns out slide puzzles than I imagined, so I in my quest for He already solved half of it but wanted to team up. And who doesn't I'm going to see if I can Not going to leave Dang it. Duffel bag. The riddle has been solved. Now I just need to find the People keep looking at this. I know Cody and Ty are Now it's just a race [MUSIC PLAYING] Where is it? Where is she? Where is it? Where is it? I don't know what I've been looking forever. Did someone get it? [PHONE RINGING] So I'm looking for but I hear a phone I have to answer Oh, look at that. Yeah, it's me. It's Dr.-- I don't remember You actually have Hello. Listen closely. OK. If you thought it'd be safe in cards, laying bets on a billiard Other than a couple of there was no foul play of Sparky's disappearance. Just eliminated I am one step closer, baby. Let it go. Let go. What's up? I missed out on the However, that leaves me to [MUSIC PLAYING] Mr. Green, you look so nice. It's fancy to see Thank you. One second, I have to Ooh. Hello, red duffel, Inside the red duffel I I'm one step closer to Thank you for Wait. He already has it. Gosh, where was it? Was it in here? Oh, Mr. Green always prevails. If I had to award a in this competition, He's still in last Everyone just calm down. But I am out of clues, so But if there was a have to give it to the It's actually been quite Hey, Claret, look. I'm kidding. I kind of like that it folds up. Look, oh, it's It's Mr. Green in a tent. OK. Any other questions? I need to get back to the game. Professor. Did you find the duffel? I have a clue. Yeah. So we got that part. So this could solve the top. They do not make this easy. I worked on this thing forever. All I could find was couldn't see anything else. I was about to go upstairs, and said the round was over. [CLOCK RINGING] I hear the cuckoo clock. It is 7:00. It is time to go No, I got one more You have to wait, sir. We are going to play and then you can continue. Everyone to the Who doesn't love a This mini game is In this picture are Your goal is to find and document where they are phones. Gentlemen, begin. [MUSIC PLAYING] The person who finds all [BELL] This is tough. I was off to a I just couldn't find Why are you pointing? What are you doing? Thanks, Cods. Golly. I help you. You help me. I can just see Cory scream. That would be in a 3, 2, 1. [BELL] After looking at Thank you very much. --the winner is Colonel Mustard. No way. What'd he get? How many? The Colonel discovered all the rocket ship, and the panda. Congratulations, For winning this mini game, I'm also giving you this It may come in handy soon. Mm, helpful. As for the rest of you, now and solve more riddles. However, a special There are five crossword puzzles Take note of one word Together those words will Ciao ciao. [MUSIC PLAYING] The guys were busy I decided to go Quickly, I find the But I don't know what So after the mini game, I if I could find anything new. There was, in fact, I found a new room, baby. Don't know about anything. Oh, the fruit. There's a watermelon. Inside that room, unfortunately, I've ever seen. I have no idea what to do. I don't like to think a lot. Kids, moms, dads at home Pause the video, play and see if you can solve it. Be better than the tall Howdy. I'll let you lock it if you'll It's a doozy. I know where these are. You do? Yes. Ty. Where-- Yeah, where's Verde? I need to let him in. No, there's three of us. Did he find the book I can't bail on him. You have to. We got a big-- this is big. Mr. Green! Yes, Professor. He's been with the doctor. You found it, didn't you? No, I didn't find it. Don't you lie to me! I'm not lying, Professor. I did find another clue, though, Find the fruits, OK? Find the fruits. What kind of fruit you got? You got a picture-- I have two fruits. Just two? I need four. If you give me four, we'll talk. Kid's coming from absolutely I've searched the whole and it's given me nothing Snatch the blacklight you see the number of rabbit, Thank goodness I I never would have gotten These geese show up. I finally find a painting It reveals three rabbits, so I know the code is 3-6-5. Baby. It's the missing piece It's not the pool, I run back inside, and I you call them, running room, which wasn't open before, Ty and Cody hustled out What they did not find, Attic. Attic. Pull down the attic. Ding, ding, ding. I worked on this thing forever. I finally ended It says-- Third floor alive. Alive. Alive Book. It's called Alive. Last man standing. I found the book, got a clue. Professor Plum is about I've seen it. It's upstairs. It's upstairs. Hey, man. Hey. What's up? [CRICKETS CHIRPING] So I pull down the attic Boomstick eliminated. After the blacklight been able to find much until-- [PHONE RINGING] Hello? Why, yes, I will Thank you Bye. Bye. I'm on fire. The colonel's on fire. That phone call gave I know the Dudes I've decided to An accusation is an official that create the The Dudes are only allowed If they are correct, and they are Are you sure of this? Where do I go? To the study. Hello. The Colonel is sweating. If they are incorrect, then and locked in the closet. [MUSIC PLAYING] Do I just say it? Send it. And is the confetti ready? [MUSIC PLAYING] (WHISPERING) Get in here. Get in here. I know for sure that happened in the ballroom. I swear I do not know. I just found it. I swear. The weapon is the net gun. Just let me go. Here. Oh-- The suspect guilty [MUSIC PLAYING] --was me. Take me away. I'm sorry, Colonel, but your No! Yes. He's out! He tried his accusation, We're down to four, baby. Go into the isolation closet. Yep, stay in here. This is it. Yep. [CLOCK RINGING] Gentlemen, it's time I'm sure this hour you are very so actively, so I invite you to Roulette.&quot; I'm sorry, did he say poison? You never know when Poisoned. Surely, he doesn't It's not poison. It's just vinegar. Here we go. [MUSIC PLAYING] So I don't want it to I'm not sure. Mr. Blue Jay, you It's a tough call, I'll just take my own. Drink. Vinegar, are you serious? Adios. Bon jour. I don't like this game. Let's see where the ball falls. Be me. Stop. It is leaning toward But I'm going to go myself. OK. Chug it. Why? That is nasty. Lovely. And the final round-- and spin it like that. We will see where Give it to me. Yes. It is your choice, Mr. Blue Jay. Ah, bad choice. OK. Cheers, my friend. Who is doing a better I cannot tell. I'm trying to read. I believe he has been poisoned. See you, Mr. Green. Congratulations. Thank you, good sir. Solid effort. Tried my best. That was good. Almost had him. I can still taste it. It's very bad. Congratulations, Mr. Blue Jay. Thank you, sir. Clue card, this Really got to crank We go upstairs, and I see by the window. I look out the window, and I see so I go. I pick up this eyeglass to peer outside the window. And who do I see? Heavens to Betsy, the Claret. I know I'm right feel maybe I can run fast enough a bit of a non-athlete. Oh, no, another clue. The Amarillo code. 0-3-4-2. Dr. Claret. Hello, doctor. 0-3-4-2, Amarillo. Good news for us. The doctor's not very smart. He's probably forgotten the Where are you going, Dr. Claret? No. Where are you going? Where's Amarillo? You don't even know the code. I don't know. No. No. I'm in the room. It's a one-person Just as I suspected, Dr. So Ty beat me to the room, a fishing pole It's a big boy. Wow, I haven't seen It's finally the got to make sure there's Sure enough, master String together clue by clue. The kidnapping took place. Where's the string? I find a pegboard, and on it I find the string, which The address book leads I find the other book, which for the string board. At this point in I'm tempted to just give up. Let's go for podium because, But I made it this far, so let's and see what it spells. To F4. I'm watching the tape on I feel this is a complete Mr. Verde's time He just hammered in a code. I'm not sure if that was but it wasn't. I feel like I'm falling behind. This may have been a mistake. [MUSIC PLAYING] Oh! Just as I suspected, Mr. Verde's got to I've wasted too much time. The others are too It's a bit of a risk, but I feel to make an accurate accusation. I'm not waiting anymore. I'd like to make an accusation. Butler. To G1. What in the world? I strung together the &quot;Take a selfie.&quot; So I took the selfie, and The kidnapping took [MUSIC PLAYING] So the clue says to use gold rings from the boots. That's my strength. I'm brain-- no, I'm Mr. Butler. If I want any to get this clue quick go inside the accusation area. No, a snaker. I'd like to make an accusation. What is this man doing? I don't know what he's Into my study. Let's go. Mr. Green, it's time that If you are correct, you If you are wrong, you'll be with your friend, Thank you very much, Horatio. It's been a wonderful evening. The location was the ballroom. The weapon was the net gun. And I can tell you with 33.333 the person responsible for none other than Dr. Claret. Huge news for Mr. Claret. I have a Claret, which This is massive. I am now, I think, in the lead. Mr. Green, you're a Thank you, Horatio. However, you are incorrect. Golly. No, no, no, no! [SPEAKING SPANISH] [CLOCK RINGING] It is midnight, and It is time for your Police. Open up. Dr. Claret, Professor it's time for you to Here's what I know, earlier The ballroom. I know it happened A net gun was used. With a net gun. The weapon, the shock caller. The person, Mr. Green. Mr. Green did it. The suspect, Professor Plum. Professor Plum. Gentlemen, after speaking it's time to declare the winner The abduction took That's right. The weapon that was No way. And lastly, the person is our Professor Plum. Policeman-- What? I don't remember that. I won the games! Let's go! You guys did me wrong. Thank you, sir. What a pleasure. Professor Plum-- That was exhilarating! I get arrested? Sorry, Bub. Come with me, Professor Plum. I thought this was just a game. How dare you? Mr. Blue Jay, I'm be joining Colonel Green in the closet for Let it go. Let go. What's up? Hey, thank you so much. I'm shocked as much Couldn't have done it without Thank you, boys. Woo hoo. We'll see you on the next vid. I believe this is when they Dude Perfect.