Bastard I want to be beaten. I want to be beaten. Bastard Bastard Get out of here, you want to be beaten, you want to be beaten Bastard Go Run, run! Run, run! Run fast, run fast! Walk fast, run fast, walk fast Run Kill someone, run! Over there, quick! quick here in No No This side quick Follow my plan You guys go out and meet them. We go in to rescue people. action Yes Yes Walk In order to rescue Xin Zhiyuan as soon as possible The chief of the national army guards dressed in disguise Sneaking into the Japanese headquarters to rescue But they never expected They entered the encirclement of the devils Quick, quick, quick, untie Chief of the Guard You guys go, it's too dangerous here. No one can go out with me. Just forget it, just go away. Walk This side quick There are more and more devils The door is still sealed. Blow up the wall Go blow up the wall! yes Captain Xin, please withdraw first and I will provide cover. Go away, I'll cover you. No, let's go together. Leader, hurry up! It will be too late if you don't leave now Walk fast This is the command Anyone who dares to disobey me will be killed Walk Are you afraid? Not afraid not afraid We have soul and spirit Have your own fist Have your own fist What is the slogan of our New Second Steel Regiment? What is the slogan of our New Second Steel Regiment? Kill the devils to protect our homeland Kill the devils to protect our homeland Kill the devils to protect our homeland New Second Group arrive Fight with the devils My brother We are soldiers What are the duties of a soldier? Protect our people Protect our families Defending our territory kill The whole city is under martial law and an immediate search is underway yes Zhang Ranran, you take some guerrillas with you Find a way to sneak into the Japanese headquarters I will lead some guerrillas Disguised as Japanese soldiers, they attacked from the main gate Attract the attention of the devil Documents Captain Captain, we were ambushed. what to do Bastard What do you say? Call Kill them all yes When we start You quickly Enter the headquarters building from the south wall Find the city defense map If time permits Let's see if we can rescue Captain Xin. But don't fight Car bombing Car bombing car bombing I'll go find the drawings. Go check on the whereabouts of Captain Xin. The bastard killed them. The password should be my uncle's birthday. Zhang Ranran sneaked into the Japanese headquarters again Risking his life to find the city defense map Xin Zhiyuan to protect Jinan City Already died Now it's just a last-ditch fight Get the city defense map Protect the people of Ji'nan City To become an excellent underground party member Memory must be good Some documents, secret letters, maps Even dozens of digits You have to remember everything you see Head of Xin Retreat quickly Have you found Captain Xin? Captain Xin's whereabouts are unknown Too late Quick retreat hurry up withdraw Bastard Report to the Captain We suffered heavy losses Bastard Now You Know Why do they keep coming here? This is what I'm looking for The drawing inside this yes Food you can't find The blueprints are gone. You arrested Xin Zhiyuan and beat him to death Bastard yes These bastards are still patrolling To blend in Those wires must be cut. If that happens, the whole city will lose power. Only power outages caused chaos We can blend in. That's true. Just do it Pay attention to concealment good Hello What Guerrillas attacked the power plant Bastard Blocking power plants I'll send someone there right away. Visitors Captain Send someone to repair the power plant immediately Power outage in the city It must be a conspiracy Stop, what are you doing? Taijun, isn't there a power outage? Notify us to come and repair the electricity Electrician yes Where are the documents? OK Come and help me lift it up Slowly Look what this is This is Map of the bombing points connecting the four gates of Ji'nan City We must blow it up quickly. fry I'm going to install the explosives now. Go cut the yellow wire. good Who is coming? The gunshot will alert the Japanese Retreat quickly! Retreat quickly! Walk Hurry up there Why do they destroy Power distribution room of power plant Bastard Xin Zhiyuan They must be trying to save Xin Zhiyuan Destroyed the power plant When will the power plant be repaired? About two hours Boss, show me this. We dismantled the enemy's bomb hub Sooner or later, Sato will be desperate. Now we have to find out quickly Is Xin Zhiyuan dead or alive? We can only take action once we understand clearly Do you know where he is imprisoned? Some time ago, I was in the Japanese military headquarters. It's not clear now In order to catch Guerrillas lurking in Ji'nan City Pretending to be Xin Zhiyuan and Sun Guangjun, they marched in the streets Attract guerrillas and the Eighth Route Army The purpose is to catch Criminals who sabotaged the power plant Draw them out and destroy them all. The shopkeeper's shopkeeper's What is the situation I just saw the devil Xin Zhiyuan and Sun Guangjun were paraded in the streets He was then taken to the Japanese headquarters. OK, keep watching. yes Did you hear that? Let's take action tonight Rescue Captain Xin When will the power plant be repaired? Anyway, the devil has been repairing I don't think he can fix it in a short time. Then we'll act when it's dark. Manager Liu Go and learn about the power plant. Ranran and I went to rescue Captain Xin Then we will meet at Chenghuang Temple. Who is it? What are you doing? Stop taking pictures. What's going on? What could happen? The lady is resting inside. What are you shining with that broken flashlight? Stop it. Taijun is here Female quick Everyone, please act quickly Find Captain Xin as soon as possible This side They are here Get them off now. Fake Quick, quick, quick withdraw Captain Xin has been killed by the devils It's a trap withdraw Walk withdraw Chase It's her again Order all defenders to move out Gotta catch them Xie Yang You take your comrades and retreat first. I lead the enemy away No, we must withdraw together. Let's go our separate ways and meet at the old place Walk Go Go Go This side Report to the Captain. All ran away Bastard Search carefully again Don't miss any place yes You guys follow me CEO What is always us? This is really scary. Are you okay? I'm fine By the way, how is the situation outside? nothing We have to hide. The Japs are hunting us down It's so chaotic outside and the gates are under strict inspection. How to get out of town? It's too hard to leave the city now. We have many people and big goals I can't leave the city tonight. Wait till dawn Wait till dawn We'll get out the same way we came here. It's better to go out to mix with the crowd at dawn Get lost Take the time to repair The Japanese motorcycle broke down. I think this Japanese product is not good. Not as good as our black guy hurry up One Two Three Four Four What does it mean? Ten Japanese soldiers are worth his wife's life Last time three, this time four Seven, three left wrong Thirteen more Money is expensive Shall we fight or not? What are you waiting for? There is a situation Oops, Platoon Leader Zhu Zhu Platoon Leader, the guerrillas are coming! Report to the Queen immediately yes What's that noise outside? The fight started The guerrillas are calling. Bastard Gather the team, hurry up A collection is a collection All blown to death Why don't you leave? Then I'll go first Please be safe etc. What's wrong You should be careful too knew Uncle Goat action Okay The guerrillas are coming The guerrillas are coming Entering the village, the guerrillas are entering the village The guerrillas are coming, the guerrillas are coming The guerrillas are entering the village. The guerrillas are entering the village. The guerrillas are coming The guerrillas are coming The Japs are coming The lady is here, that's great. Qian Sang, why are you here? Taijun, this is what happened I just heard an explosion at the entrance of the village I thought it was the Imperial Army that fired accidentally. The results came out. I realized that the guerrillas had arrived. That's why I hurriedly informed you with drums and gongs What about the guerrillas? I asked you about the guerrillas. Ran away. We scared him away. Yes, he was scared away by us. Right, right, right Scared away I was scared away by you. Taijun, we scared you away You see, we use this He was scared away, Taijun this Yes, Taijun Look, look well Qian Sang, you have made a great contribution Taijun I am willing to serve the Imperial Japanese Army I'll repeat it again Who can tell me where the food is hidden? I will reward him heavily ) come out This, this, this Tell me where the food is You want to exchange food for her life? Or do you want to trade your life for food? Folks, the Imperial Army has said All you have to do is tell the Imperial Army where the food is hidden. The Imperial Army treats you as good citizens. and Don't kill chickens 2. Do not kill pigs Three Don'ts Hurry up and tell me If you don't say it again The Imperial Army really opened fire. Quick I count to three. If you don't say I will beat her to death two Dead dead Go back sorry I forgot to count to three. Let me see how tough your skin is. Machine Gunner Ready what to do preparation stop Old village chief, you can't go to the old village Uncle Village Chief Uncle, you can't go. You bunch of beasts You want food, right? Come at me You old guy Didn't everything just go away when you came out? Your brain is filled with shit. Or maybe the Japanese got kicked in the head by a donkey Let me tell you where the food is. So why am I hiding it? You finally came out You are the village chief I am the village chief. What do you have? Come to me. Bring him up Bring him up Go fast Old village uncle Go back Go back Back tell me Where is the food? I know where the food is. Just don't tell you If there is no food, we can plant more. If a life is gone, it's gone. I still have the conscience of a Chinese Yu Sang, you are too wordy yes Get out of the way Bastard You old fool What good will it be for you to go against the imperial army? Don't think the imperial army dare not kill you Akino Taijun of the Imperial Japanese Army That's courtesy before force. If you don't say it again I'll kill you I'm calling out three numbers now. Kill me I really can't wait to do that. Isn't it just death? Die happily Save you and me from having to worry about food. What a pain! Stop talking, shoot. You old fool Don't push me I really broke you If you have the guts, shoot. Open I'm driving You open it. open screw you Brother uncle village chief Village Chief Village Chief Niu Ergou, stop it! Niu Ergou, stop it! Niu Ergou, you bastard You little bastard You are not human You stinky bitch You're going to yell again I'll destroy you first Niu Ergou will die You beast, you beast Taijun Don't you just want food? I have a solution Come up Go go go fast Go, go, go up and tell Taijun Money is expensive, money is expensive, can't say Taijun Please let me persuade the old village chief Taijun, let the blind man persuade you. All right Then please leave it to Qian Sang Go quickly. Go quickly. You don't need to persuade me Why can't you tell good people from bad people? I think you look like a bad guy Uncle Can you listen to me? Please give me some time. Can I come into the house? Have a good chat with the old village chief I'll watch them go. Slow down, uncle Did you fall, uncle? I said you old man Why don't you appreciate it? I was helping you just now You said you were dead If you die, I'll be in big trouble. Did you know If I can't do my job, you'll die in vain. Do you think God is blind? How can I give you a human skin? Take a piss yourself Look at you, you're good at beating people Born with a grandson It's not that you are so ignorant. Blind man, you should know this clearly. How can you bite Lu Dongbin? You don't know good people. I know you mean well. For our own good My uncle has this temper. Don't take it to heart when you're old. I'm not blind, I won't help you You saw this situation today If you can't deliver the food You all have to die. Yes Yes Please persuade him. Thank you, Mr. Yu. Please go out first. You damn old man Don't think that we, the Imperial Japanese Army I don't know anything I tell you Someone has already sued you. Niu Sang Thank you for the information Aren't you hitting him? Keep going. Niu Sang gave him the whip Get lost That's not for beating people, it's for beating you You old fool You curse people but don't spit out the bones I'll beat you to death I'll beat you to death I'll beat you to death Stop hitting me, village chief! village head The Second Widow The Second Widow Second sister Get lost! Go back! Come back, don't go. stop The Second Widow Niu Er dog son of a bitch You'll die a miserable death I'm living well. I won't die for a while. You stinky bitch If you dare to talk nonsense again I'll slap your face. You smoke, you smoke I'll beat you to death. You think I dare not hit you? Second sister Stop it! Stop it! Second sister Money is expensive go back Second sister You stupid blind man You dare to hit me? I'll beat you to death I'll beat you to death I'll beat you to death stop The devils are at my doorstep You beat your own people Are you still Chinese? You are a dog Folks, where are you? The Eighth Route Army is fighting the Japanese on the front line How many people died? We can't be bullied by the little Japanese Bastard You bastard You are not human You are a beast Uncle Brother Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Don't stop me, village chief. Qian Sang This is a message from a German friend to me. I'll teach you how to play Holding Don't shake your hands when aiming Then move your finger That's it Uncle Do you have the guts to be a traitor? Don't you have the guts to shoot? shot shot Let's give him the food. Shoot! I let you shoot If you don't kill him, I'll kill you. Shoot, boy! Uncle shot Shoot! Uncle I don't know why There's no bullet in the gun. I play yours I'm going to your Do you think I can't hit you without bullets? Bastard Village elder Village chief brother village chief Uncle Village elder Don't stop me, bro. Village chief Village chief Village chief You guys are fucking You will not die well. Back off Stand still and step back Go back Go back Uncle Uncle Taijun You beat the old village chief to death. We don't know where the food is hidden. How can we explain this to Sato-Takun? You all saw what happened to him. Don't think I dare not kill you If you can't deliver food within three days Don't even think about living Uncle Guier I understand your thoughts. I won't die today. Can the devils let the villagers go? Qian Sang Qian Sang The blind man is calling you Calling you Start Today You become the village chief. Retreat Retreat This is the food I want. Yes Yes All ready All ready for you Qian Sang Captain Sato has already said After this batch of grain is transported into the city I will definitely reward you well. Thank you, Taijun. Thank you, Taijun. But it doesn't matter These are what I should do. Taijun Qiangui Village Chief The food is ready for you. Have you counted? This is food. It's too precious. Don't dare to mess with it Platoon Leader Zhu Bring your soldiers with me. yes Walk What's wrong? Yu Ye Yu Ye Yu Ye What happened to him? Taijun, this is the legendary epilepsy Very impressive Yu Ye This is a fatal disease. I'm half dead once I smoke it Madam, I heard that this disease is contagious. You better go first. Don't miss the big thing Leave this to me. It's out Walk, walk, walk fast Go quickly This is the same weight as our old sow. What did you say nothing You little bastard Put it down for me You dare to throw me It's not you who let it go Help me up Quick quick quick translation Come on, look at what's going on. Yu Ye Yu Ye Little bastard Too ignorant Okay, Mr. Yu, stop pretending. Why are you pretending to be sick? Heart disease, understand? As long as the green mountains remain, there will be no shortage of firewood. Go get some wine Go quickly. Go quickly. Good, good ... Get some wine for Yu Da the translator, quickly! Blind man, think about it. Now the Eighth Route Army and the National Army are starving. Is there any food left? How many people can be fed with so much food? It's haunted only if you don't get robbed. Hurry up! Hurry up! hurry up Come over Comrades, prepare to fight Everyone, prepare for battle Prepare for battle Okay, Master Yu The analysis makes sense Learn slowly This is Captain Sato. Smart is smart Just too self-righteous No different from other devils. How does this old saying go? Arrogant soldiers will surely be defeated, right? Yu Ye is really brave and resourceful If I were the captain I have to make you a commander anyway. commander blind You don't understand No matter we are under the hands of the devils What kind of job do you do? In their minds, it's a dog. I'm just afraid of death Otherwise, I would have taken up my gun and gone to fight the Japanese. Stop moving forward Don't go. Stop. Platoon Leader Zhu, you take a car and cross the valley first My Taijun yes There's a car coming from behind. Walk faster This little devil Akino is really cunning what to do It's okay, let them go. You lead the commando team Go around to the front of the valley and intercept them Go around to the front of the valley and intercept them Remember, after we start fighting You guys fight again yes beat Notify immediately Protect food quickly Call me Over there You idiot over there You idiot over there Playing dead Go over there, over there Playing dead Let me in You blocked it for me. Come on, come on team leader Go and inform Captain Sato Go quickly yes Bastard Come out to me Come out and fight There are too many people Come in and hide together. Hide, believe it or not, I will kill you Come on, come on, come on hurry up This can't go out hurry up Come on yes Go quickly! Yu Ye You said the sound of gunfire outside Why is the fight getting more and more lively? Where are we going? It's not time yet. I expect there will be a fierce battle today OK True Who has such courage? Spread the news right under the eyes of the Japanese Blind man, can't you count? Please calculate Who is it? The firepower of the Eighth Route Army is too strong. The Japs are sending us to our deaths We can't go. withdraw Withdraw, withdraw, withdraw Quick withdraw Give me a rush Go! rush Go! Give me a rush Go! Charge and kill Go, go, go Go, go, go Chinese right Chinese Blind man, what do you say? I've done so many bad things. Will the Eighth Route Army and the common people let me go? cannot I definitely won't let you go. So, You hide here first. Wait for the Eighth Route Army to leave I'll help you out. Then you all left. What should I do if I'm hungry? Just rest assured Can I starve you? good I listen to you Comrades, hurry up Cleaning up the battlefield Pick up all the guns! See if there's any alive. Food loading quick Come clean this up. Those food fast Be careful. good Instructor, there is an officer here. There's a live one here. come out You little devil, you still pretend to be dead? The devils are cunning enough Can you call someone a devil if he's not cunning? Cut the crap There is a scale to kill me You should remember this. It turns out that the people who repeatedly entered our headquarters It's you Don't make a mistake What is your command? Every inch of land here They are all our Chinese I won't stay at your place. Come to our China Harming the people and committing many evil deeds Where is your conscience? conscience conscience conscience I'll tell you where your conscience is. What was ambushed? Where OK, I know. Visitors Captain Gather all troops Notice to the troops near Qianya area All forces to reinforce Akino yes Check every car It must be tied tightly, you know? Tie-down point good Thank you for your hard work, Lao Liu We're still on schedule. You quickly escort the food to the base It is to ensure the completion of the task This place is not far from the county town. The Japs will be here soon You better leave immediately. Okay, let's meet at the base. Good base see you good Instructor I'll stay and help you. Food is the most important thing right now You should escort the food with Lao Liu. It is to ensure the completion of the task Comrades, withdraw Report Captain, we were attacked by the Eighth Route Army. food Bastard, leave now yes Set off Instructor Can we fool the devil with this disguise? I'm not afraid of the devils not believing I'm afraid he won't have time to believe me. Instructor, what do you mean? We give the devil Made a big dumpling Let's hurry up, comrades. good Comrades, hurry up! Walk Reporting Group Leader The devil is coming out Okay, everyone, get ready. Stop looking and run forward Taijun Taijun Taijun Taijun Taijun, why did you come just now? You bastard, you still have the nerve to come back alive What about food? It was taken away by the Eighth Route Army Where did you run to? Over there Chase yes The enemy car is approaching Wait a moment Wait a minute good Are the food trucks ready? Be ready good Martyrs of the Empire I will avenge you I won't let you die in vain at their hands. Stop chasing Report to the Captain Major Akino's body was found here It's you again I won't let you go Akino I will definitely avenge you Pull the food back yes Pull the food back Take all the food away quick Lying down After all this fuss, we are here to die. These beasts Flattering and patting the horse's hoof Isn't the horse of the platoon leader a beast? Why are you patting the horse's hooves for no reason? What nonsense are you talking about? So much nonsense. I need to know this I won't come Now I regret it. Know it earlier We should just stay in the turret. It's no use beating me. If you have the guts, go tell the devils. What nonsense are you talking to me? Do you want to slap me? careful Lying down Platoon leader, let's spread the seeds quickly. Where to evacuate? Returning to the city is also death. Platoon leader, why don't we retreat to the artillery tower? Right, right, right Retreat to the turret right right Brothers, retreat Captain Captain Are you okay? Captain, we have suffered heavy casualties. I think we should retreat first. Bastard withdraw good Retreat here Captain, Captain, they are here. Captain, Captain, they are here. It's a guerrilla I'm not blind In front is the Qinghe County artillery tower Everybody be careful. Why don't we just let him go? How many times have I told you 6 You have to let them go Can the devil let you go? 6 What should I do? What to do? What to do? Who asked you to hit me? I mean wait till they pass by before calling. Can you understand what I am saying? Understood Folks, protect the gas bombs. Machine gunner, add another one Xiao Ruan, go and inform the brothers in the artillery tower Tell them to cease fire. Wait until they pass and then call faster. yes You two follow me. yes Xiao Li Grenade Grenade Ran Ran covers good This side Hide quickly, hide quickly Hide quickly, hide quickly I'm dead dead dead Got shot. Got shot. Hit by a bullet quick withdraw Oh no! Someone is blowing up the bunker! Come on! How come you guys are back? The company commander's guerrilla gun skills are too accurate Almost beat me to death You're trash Captain, this is not a solution. Our brothers in the turret will But they all died It's better for them to die in a hurry than for us to die together. Think about it carefully The Eighth Route Army has poison gas bombs. Did you know y Money is expensive Walk Walk Walk quick Captain, you are wrong. I misjudged you. I don't know him Don't I know that donkey? What are you doing, Captain? I'll kill him. Company commander, where do they have poison gas bombs? What happened to the poison gas bomb? I don't use poison gas. Brothers, aim at the money and beat me to death Brothers, don't use poison gas bombs. Protect the gas bomb You guys retreat quickly withdraw Can you do it alone? It's no problem to deal with Zhu Laowu and his men Go fast That's good You better be careful Company commander Qian Gui and the others have all gone. Let's withdraw quickly. Soon they will all run away. Okay, you can bring some brothers now. Go outflank them! Bastard Why did this Imperial Army start ambushing the guerrillas? Aren't they afraid of being hit by poison gas bombs? Would you like to report to Hanako-sama? Smashed the radio station Monster now We're already dead. Do you understand? Yes Yes I think this Imperial Army Poison gas bombs should be released We disguised ourselves as Chinese refugees Run ahead of the guerrillas and wait for them Yes Yes Brothers, get out and chase them away Remember, chase them away Do you know Don't use poison gas on me. Put the gas bomb in that car. Keep your eyes open Capture Qian Gui alive Walk Give me a rush Go, go, go Go, go, go Fortunately, he ran fast. Otherwise I'll kill him. What to do? Are you sick? Follow me Don't move Why is a woman's money more expensive? Bitch, let me catch you I caught you, bitch. Don't come over here. Don't Shoot I want to catch him alive Help, Captain! I don't want to die yet, Captain. Don't come over here If you come over here, I'll kill him. I'm coming over You want his life? You think you killed him? Will I let you go? Kill him! Spare my life, auntie I have an eighty-year-old daughter-in-law. There is a twenty-year-old woman below The whole family is waiting for me to take care of them, aunt You guys don't say Didn't the Eighth Route Army kill Chinese people? Shut up Kill him, kill him quickly Girl, you've thought about it. You are the Eighth Route Army How can you be so cruel? He has a family. Did you guys see it? Did you guys see it? This is the Eighth Route Army Flying Knife Bring me her throwing knife. Sato Taikun and Hanako Captain It's so hard to wait for you. Captain C Lock her up in the turret first. &lt;&lt; Zhu Sang, what's going on? Caught a female claw road Knife throwing If you don't pay There is only one dead end Very Zhusang, you did a good job. You should lock up that female Eighth Route Army soldier first. I will send the Imperial Army to pick her up. Taijun, we are actually very hard-working. real Watching the Eighth Route Army is not an easy task. Brothers, what's your heart? It's all in my throat Get here Yu Sang brought the female Eighth Route Army soldier with him. Let's go yes Where is that Taijun? We are cold and slippery Why don't we go inside and rest for a while before leaving? Can't If you leave late Fear of road safety Right, right, right. Let's go now. I'm ready What Nani Nani us Where is this Taijun? I thought so This Eighth Route Army is very cunning You said that if you were on the road What would you do if you were ambushed by the Eighth Route Army? Who can protect you, right? Who can protect you? We are only us Only then can I loyally protect the Queen Can't Just guard the turret well. yes Take this female Eighth Route Army Walk Take away Where to go Who are you going with? You really treat us like dogs, don't you? People took away What should we do if the Eighth Route Army asks us for someone? You wait for me Fall down Fall down Falling backwards Down in the ditch Don't fall. I can't pour it out. I can't pour it out. Taijun Taijun Bastard How do you direct the reverse? Zhu Sang, how do you command the reverse? Taijun, please calm down It's not my fault. Look, the road is too slippery. And I told him I said fall, fall, fall and it fell into the ditch. Shut up Take the female Eighth Route Army with you and we'll walk back Walk Go fast Release our people immediately. Zhu Sang Taijun What's the situation above? Please look at us, Taijun. I said we are useful. We are finally useful, right? Who is it? We are the armed forces What armed work team? I haven't heard of it. Wrong, wrong, the armed work team is from Shandong Wrong, wrong, the armed work team is from Shandong We are the Plains Guerrillas What a mess What team is he on? I am your Eighth Route Army guerrilla grandfather Stop bragging. I beat the guerrillas away a long time ago. I tell you If you know what's best for you, get out of here now The shrimp soldiers and crab generals will tell you This company commander has no time to serve you. Get out of here I don't need you to serve me. I know You have no interest in us right But you must be interested in it. Look what this is Shaobing I just believe it Do they really dare to detonate poison gas bombs? I'll tell you This thing is not reliable at all Okay, stop talking about this now. How to do this? Who threw it? Never mind, he must be one of us. Never mind, he must be one of us. Give me the grenade The bastards are really guerrillas. Call me Taijun Taijun, this is not possible. I tell you that life is at stake. These Eighth Route Army soldiers really don't care about their lives. If you have the guts, just hit the devils. If the poison gas bomb explodes The emperor will blow you to death Who are we afraid of? Shaobing grenade Hit Shoot! If you have the guts, shoot at the poison gas bomb. Hit Even if we perish together I want to fight him too. Taijun Taijun Taijun You can't hit me, Taijun. What if the bomb really goes off? How many people died? If we want to die, we have to kill a lot of Na Taijuns Taijun, you need to think about it. Take the female Eighth Route Army with you to retreat Withdrawal Zhu Sang Our Retreat Here's your cover Brothers We can't let them take the female Eighth Route Army away How come they fought each other? I didn't know that the Eight Xians were internal conflicts. What do you want to rebel for? No, no, no, I don't dare to do it. I mean this, Taijun You want to take the female Eighth Route Army away They specified that the poisonous helium bomb should be detonated Then we, the gang But they are all dead We can't die, Taijun. We still have to serve the Imperial Japanese Army. Even if they don't detonate the gas bombs Once the Eighth Route Army reinforcements arrived They must take down our artillery tower. Can I put my hands down first? They're all messed up. No one pays attention to us I took my hands off first. no Your conscience is bad. That's not what I meant. Don't be angry, Madam. How to talk to Taijun? Taijun, what he meant is There is an old Chinese saying: The palms and backs of the hands are all flesh Please think about it again, Taijun If you kill all of us How do others view the Empire of Japan? Is it Taijun? Why are you talking that nonsense? Then you say Taijun I think these imperial army are going to rebel. Taijun is really not good Let's use a delaying tactic Hand the female Eighth Route Army soldiers over to them first. Let's go back and get help. When we come back If Zhu Laoba fails to hand over the female Eighth Route Army We'll shoot them all. Do you think it's ok, Taijun? good Money is expensive, I'll exchange it with you My hands are a little sore Don't talk nonsense. Zhu Sang yes In order to temporarily delay the guerrillas The female Eighth Route Army soldier is left in the artillery tower for you You like her yes I'm waiting for rescuers to arrive. You hand her over to Mr. Hanako in person. clear Understand Understand Understand Understand good Yes, yes, Taijun You are invincible You led these brave Imperial Army brothers You will definitely stand out You just push out. Leave the female Eighth Route Army here with me You can rest assured good Who is this again? Bastard Eighth Route Brothers The Imperial Army said This female Eighth Route Army soldier was not captured by the Imperial Army So I handed it over to the Imperial Army. In addition, according to international conventions We have released the female Eighth Route Army soldier You have to let us pass safely. What is the International Convention? You rarely ask me I really don't know Go, go, stop talking nonsense As long as you let go I can guarantee you safe passage. There is a path behind the lady. You can walk around it good Zhu Sang quickly took the female Eighth Route Army soldier back to the artillery tower Keep a good look at yes I'll go back and ask for reinforcements. Yu Sang, we withdraw Bet it's done Good job Hold it steady Brothers on Can you give me ten minutes? I'll discuss this with my brothers in ten minutes. I can give you ten minutes. But you also saw We have driven the Japanese away. If you're not afraid of poison gas Then we'll stay with you till the end Okay, let's go in and discuss it. No Shooting Brothers, go Pull me, pull me Shaobing Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up Qian Gui, hurry up and think of a way to deal with it. Ask you I want to go into the turret. Aren't you looking for death? Don't worry, nothing will happen. Stand up, you bitch. Lock her up for me. yes quick All of you who are okay, come up to me. yes Captain, I think saving your life is more important. Life is saved But the Eighth Route Army is still in our hands. Do you think the guerrillas didn't rescue this Eighth Route Army soldier? Can our life be better? Right, right, right What can I do? If anything happens to me You detonate the gas bomb. etc. etc. etc. Money is expensive, you are crazy This is fake If you want to deceive someone, you have to believe it first. Captain, I have an idea. If you do this, you will release the Eighth Route Army. If not you will say I put it there Then, you remained calm in the face of danger and sacrificed your relatives for the sake of justice. You just killed me. Who would kill relatives for the sake of justice? Not the company commander Don't get excited. I haven't finished talking yet. You remained calm in the face of danger and pretended to kill me This way we'll both be free. You can go home now, right? Xiao Ruan, do you think I really don't dare to kill you What if something happens to me? You go first. Don't I will be sad to see you die Can't you say something auspicious? I wish you come back alive. You two came here. Why did you come here? You are the oldest among the two sisters. Yes Aren't I worried that something might happen to you two? I want to come and help The bomb just now killed many Japanese soldiers Where did you throw that thing? Only two people were killed in the explosion Okay, okay, my second sister doesn't even dare to kill a chicken Now killing one Japanese soldier is worth two My second sister also needs to make progress. Money is expensive, what are you two going to do? He had to save Zhang Ranran Zhang Ranran is in the turret. Weren't those little devils just chased away? The Japanese were driven away But Zhang Ranran is still in the turret I have to rescue her. Then you go alone? Money is expensive How can't one person go? Today I will learn from Guan Yu. Go to a meeting alone Money is expensive Captain, why are you still hesitating? The devils all ran away The Eighth Route Army wants to rescue the female Eighth Route Army Then they will definitely come and kill us first. You know shit The devil ran away The Eighth Route Army bombed our artillery tower So we left the female Eighth Route Army soldiers to us. In this case, would the Eighth Route Army dare to seize our artillery tower? What is this called? This is called a delaying tactic. Do you understand? But the Eighth Route Army has poison gas bombs. If the poison gas bomb explodes Boom boom, everyone is going to die Company Commander I think we should release the female Eighth Route Army soldier first. So that he won't come to us. The rake girl was released How to explain the imperial nest? You have a pig brain? We can't live like this anymore What do we call this? We are now the rat in the bellows of the niche Being bullied by both sides Isn't this related to a big belly? What? Can't I tell you about my big belly? You mentioned Yu Tai's belly to me again How many times have I told you When I mention him, I get angry. When I mention him, I get angry. The company commander is like this ) Let's just let her go. Wouldn't the Eighth Route Army spare us? Whoever enters the room will be arrested We are the ones who caught the people. Just need a middleman If this blind man could be here A touch on both sides It's over. I won't let you talk to me about my big belly Are you mentioning him to me again? You mentioned him to me again. What is he now? He is an Eighth Route Army soldier. We are mortal enemies, do you understand? Zhu Laoba Money is expensive Speak of the devil and he will appear I heard it Let me think Let him come in and go There are only a few dogs in such a big tower. Qian Gui Laozi's territory You staggered in. You are so kind Aren't you afraid that I'll shoot you to death? Don't point the gun at me. Since I dare to come today I didn't plan to go back alive. What are you doing? What do you want to do? 4" Patrol I wanted to kill you with a grenade. But not anymore Because there are poison gas bombs outside If the poison gas bomb explodes None of you can escape. Who are you trying to scare? I'm telling you, I've wanted to kill you for a long time. Since you came to my door today Don't blame yourself for not having eyes. The two of you calm down Calm down, calm down As the saying goes, It is better to resolve a feud than to make one. Steak has been dead for so long. > We are all friends Not worth it Captain, you said we are brothers But I have been with you for so many years You have to think about us too, don't you? Yes, Captain. Yes, Captain. Yes, Captain. What do you mean? Do you want to rebel? Do you want to rebel? Do you want to rebel? No no no no no Captain, calm down. Company commander, these are all fellow villagers. You're so excited. Then everyone is done playing. I tell you, Xiao Ruan Who is timid today? Just get out of my way. I've seen people who are afraid of death. But I've never seen a coward as afraid of death as you. Look at your fucking face I'm ashamed for you. Tell me again Tell me again Don't point a gun at me. I'll blow you up Take it down Don't get excited. If you have something to say, talk nicely. If you have something to say, please talk it over This is you, you, your wrong, money is expensive Didn't you, the Eighth Route Army, say that? Chinese people don't fight China We are now united in our external Chinese people don't fight Chinese people Are you considered Chinese? I'll give you five minutes. Release that female Eighth Route Army soldier If you don't let I will inform the brothers outside Detonating poison gas bomb Everyone will die by then. Money is expensive Do you think I was scared? You may not believe it, let's wait and see You may not believe it, let's wait and see Five minutes of money Discuss I'll give you five minutes. I'll go see our comrades first. Please consider this Money is expensive slowly Are you okay? How come you are here? Come up I'm here to save you. Are you okay? fine Let's go. Money is expensive What's wrong I thought I'd never see you again How come? I know you've been wronged. The devil has left I scared them away. you do not know I just saw When you came here with Shaobing I suddenly became afraid I'm afraid you will be beaten to death by the Japanese. I'm afraid you'll lose your life for me. Look at what you said. What are you afraid of? You are an old comrade who participated in the revolution. What if even you are afraid of us? You are stupid, I am worried about you If that's the case, It seems that I have a place in your heart It's still important Not important at all Not important at all It doesn't matter, hold me. You don't really want to lose everything, do you? You think I'm the same as you? You don't even want to think about it This money-grubbing ghost idea is more cruel than the other If he walked away The poison gas bomb exploded You and I will both catch a cold. This time is different The female Eighth Route Army is in our hands. We have capital How many times have I told you If this female Eighth Route Army soldier was given to them Are the little devils done with us? Right In this way, we can let Qian Gui take the female Eighth Route Army soldier away. Then let him leave the poison gas bomb to us We have to keep some in our hands. You can't give them everything. no So what do you want, Captain? I want all the female Eighth Route Army gas bombs As the saying goes You can't have your cake and eat it too You know shit I tell you I'm going to make an exchange with them in a moment. Please let the brothers stay on the second floor first. Point all your guns at them. Once money is expensive, this poison gas bomb will be released You just Let's go Before I go, I need to tell you something. The poison gas bomb I used to scare the Japanese was fake. Fake Don't talk when you get out. I scare Zhu Lao Ba How's the discussion going? Qian Gui, this female Eighth Route Army soldier No, I won't give it to you. Think about your brother too. If I gave her to you The devils will definitely not let me go The devil won't let you go The Eighth Route Army will let you go. The current situation is already very clear. The little devils are in our China Can't stay long You'll be kicked out immediately. You'll be in danger then. That's good How do I explain this to the Imperial Army? Old Eight For the sake of our previous friendship I'll give you one more idea. What idea Bombing the tower Do you want to kill me? Let me blow up the artillery tower again This damn cold weather I blew up the turret. Where should the brothers stay? Frozen to death Do you want to freeze to death or be blown to death? I'm telling you the truth I, Zhu Lao Ba, don't want to die What if this turret explodes? I can't even explain it to the Japanese. So you let me take the person away When I get to a safe place I'll leave the gas bomb to you. You send the poison gas bombs back to the Japs The power of taking poison gas bombs The female Eighth Route Army How about it good Okay, then we have a deal. But the old eight Don't play any tricks on me. If you play tricks on me I detonate the poison gas bomb and we: I'll detonate the gas bomb and we'll die together Okay, okay. But I tell you it's expensive Don't try to play tricks on me. What's on top of this gun tower? Dozens of guns But they are all aiming at your heads If you play tricks on me Then you guys try it A promise is a promise A promise is a promise Ranran, let's go Xiao Ruan told the brothers to aim Going Around Brothers, give me I was cheated again Come on up! Stop now Stop, stop, hurry up. stop You stop What are you chasing? UP 54i Nonsense, can I run away if you don't chase me? Can I chase you if you don't run? Didn't we agree on this, old man? I'll leave the gas bomb to you. Let me take you away Stop chasing me and wait there. Then don't run away Did you hear that Ti was playing tricks on me? Don't do it again. Money is expensive, you are awesome Single-handedly rescued the young lady Okay, stop talking about this and let's go. Money is expensive You didn't go in just now. The situation inside is very tense. nervous You are holding hands for the revolution Okay, okay, stop talking about this and let's go. Otherwise, for a while Wait for Zhu Laoba to react Can't leave Let's go, hurry up, hurry up Go for a walk Lao Ba, I'll leave the poison gas bomb to you Not only leave you a I'll leave one more for you. Okay, you're being loyal. Brothers, give me a push Brothers, give me a push This is a poison gas bomb Is this a poison gas bomb? This is the iron bullet made by Qian Gui. Calm the Captain I'll see if there's any left in the box. No more Captain, stop fighting with that iron sheet. I didn't say it was true. Money is expensive, you put on fur and you become a monkey I've deceived you again. Brothers, chase me Brothers, chase me Hurry up! Let's go, Captain.