[intro sounds of bliss] [Plodding bass representing the 8 bit era commences] The Nintendo Entertainment System. It may not have been as popular in Europe it from being a thing of intrigue, wonder If anything, it made it seem ore intriguing, And it is an intriguing thing. I mean look at this corner shaped flap, just of the beast. It's aesthetics deviate hugely from the original it deviates from the more futuristic design But it does so in such a pleasing way. Even the controllers are lust-worthy, in their But the NES really is a box full of secrets. As well as two bespoke controller ports on out connections on the back. The side reveals a composite out, which was But it's underneath where things really start At first glance you might see nothing of interest, start to seem a little odd, and the fact that increases the curiosity. Now on early NES units, you simply get this But on later ones, there's actually a plastic snapped off. I presume Nintendo got sick of kids discovering causing short circuits and the like. Because once you get in... *click* *banging* *fumble* *snap* *doink!* *thud* *crackle* (and pop, the knock off Rice Crispie characters) you reveal this wonder. [Music plods on like a feverish camel] Now, a rumour, which likely started in the that this port was a secret connection, designed So NES owners didn't have to miss out on all Well, it doesn't take many IQ points to assume The NES doesn't contain nearly the right hardware marketing and really, common sense issues But the edge connector itself is roughly the right size, so you can see where this story came from. What makes more sense is foresight. A powerful skill that can be far more useful You see, the Famicom released several years Although lacking joypad connections, on account have a male 15 pin port on the front. This port was used for peripherals such as Of course the Famicom had other expansions connected directly via the cartridge slot. This was both practical, and in any case, accept them. -Will you be the one to witness the birth of the incredible Nintendo Entertainment System?- So along comes the NES onto American shores beast. With the American video game crash of 1983, They also had a lot of fear. Both Atari and Coleco had tried to move their be established as a necessary part of your But Nintendo went one further, by actually System resemble a Video Cassette Recorder; Of course, this meant that it would be far or Modem if required in the future, and so expansion port, this time located on the bottom. These cut-out chunks, are of course, for securing running wires out of the side. And when I say capable, this thing really audio lines, direct CPU connections and even At the time of it's creation, the idea by as many peripherals for the NES and they had, So, all we need now are those peripherals.... /Tumbleweed/ Yes, there doesn't seem to be, well, any peripherals capable slot, except maybe for one.... [Funky 80s music appropriate(?!) for golf] In 1987, Nintendo held a tournament based To compete, you'd simply take your disk to to Nintendo. This not only introduced a lot of people to seed for creating the Famicom Network System By purchasing a Famicom Modem, users could weather forecasts, stock trading and even Although novel, it wasn't a great success, with only 130,000 modems sold. But Yamauchi didn't see this as a failure. Instead he saw America as the true testing A testing ground which had an NES in about a connection rate of 10 million homes by the To assist with this Jerry Ruttenbur, Vice of America to setup a network, and working developed a data terminal cartridge for the however the idea fell through, and it was unwilling to conduct online business on what But, this wasn't the final attempt. Building on the existing hardware, Control an online lottery test. 10,000 residents of Minnesota received free You can see where it slots directly into the under the console. The idea was, for $10 a month, you could connect and even check your winnings. But this time the problems weren't with use, laying siege to gambling being conducted on The safeguards in place to prevent minors and the idea of an NES modem was almost put I say almost, because Keith Rupp and Nolan Teleplay Modem, under the company name Baton The premise here was a cross platform gaming and maybe this is where the original &quot;being myth originated from. In any case, Sega and Nintendo both refused died away. Leaving us with our vacant expansion slot. *sponsor segement* vacant, then how about checking out this video's trove of discovery. I've spoken about Brilliant before, but there's keep going for a while. How about Programming with Python? Brilliant breaks everything down into incredibly Or maybe Probability fundamentals. You can even delve into Casino probabilities Seriously, I can't praise it enough. I've been really enjoying and learning a lot Go to brilliant.org/NostalgiaNerd to sign 20% off their annual premium membership! [Slight fantasy land music plays] Having foresight is incredible. But sometimes, it's just not needed. Although, arguably, it's still always far But, fast forward to 2015, and we get this. Now this may look like a perfectly innocuous But, it was actually sent direct from an NES. This fine gent, Trapper McFerron actually up with my favourite social network. I suggest you go and check out his video if There's also a nice little hack, where if of the connector, you can reclaim the expansion removed from the NES. This was a feature where some Famicom games it into the Famicoms standard audio mix. So, not really useful for NES games, but handy your NES Back in 2012, there was actually a mod created that did this for you, and converted the NES Allowing you to use accessories such as those Pretty neat, although quite hard to get hold And of course, it should be noted that the By the time it was created, Nintendo of America But that wasn't the end for Nintendo's expansion Of course, this is a legacy that would continue ports found on the the SNES and N64, to the the GameCube. Nintendo always made sure there were enough Unlike Sega's consoles, which tended to also sadly, we didn't get to see most of the fruits in the West, but it's still nice to think Anyway, thanks for watching and have a great [DAT 80S FUNK IS BACK]