(shapes springing) - All right, it's mid-2024, another new version of iOS So, I've been testing the on my iPhone for the It's been in beta, and now you too can test it on an iPhone before it comes out for But there is some interesting Now, last year, I almost every single one was super ecosystem-based. Like, they would depend on or having some other but it's kinda the opposite with these. They're all just basically new features to the iPhone, anyway. So I love to see that. Now, for this video, the is Apple Intelligence stuff. That's like an entire that, to be honest, hasn't really been available for me to test So I'm gonna make a separate as soon as it's actually testable. So be sure to get subscribed to see that when I actually drop that video. But this video is the top All right, number five, So I have this at number five because while there is a good I don't know if I like but let me know what you think. So when you pull down from the corner, the new Control Center is, first of all, a and it's paginated, it's three pages now. I'll honestly probably never really use the second two pages, but they for whatever media is playing. And then a list of all for your basic connectivity. But actually turns out this full-page list is really just an expanded version of what you already had on the first page, so you can get there But okay, so on that first page, if you hit the plus button in and then you can play with the size and placement of anything that has a tab in that bottom corner. So they all kind of have that they morph between. So you can mess around basically designing your perfect layout for your control screen. You can add new controls, and there's a whole massive list of them to search through here and And right now, these are What I'm more interested in, though, is... I mean, these are all not widgets. So, they're for controlling like turning on wifi or And so Apple has said are gonna be able to build So there's none here now, to like a one-touch turning or one-touch opening in my calorie tracker app So just having more that's gonna be pretty sweet. We've also noticed this which, when you click both the intensity and the for some reason. The intensity part definitely works. The beam width, I don't know if I'm as but I guess it's still a really cool UI. Oh, also, there's a new button up here to turn off your phone, kinda like Android added a But also, you can now on your lock screen now. From the default, which and the camera for customize, lock screen, and get in there and go to town. Again, I hope there's third-party but there's already a ton of options. I am excited to set mine to But that brings us to number four, the number four best new iOS 18 feature and that's the Passwords app. You know, every once in a that installs a new app and just drops it on your home screen. So this is one of them. But essentially, what this all of the password tools that were previously buried and making it an app. So your iPhone's been saving saving wifi passcodes, This app is just a super simple way of finding it all in one place, searching through that stuff, Plus, it also supports some new features. So there's two-factor And then there's a couple that may be good enough from whatever password manager app you're using on your iPhone So, at the bottom left, you and pass keys within a Works with other people And then, when you're signing up for some new account somewhere, it'll do the same thing it always does. It offers a super secure password and then offers to remember it for you. But what I found interesting is it doesn't really have, it just seems on the iPhone So if you've got face ID on your iPhone, it'll ask for that to log Really, the main reason I'm is because I stole daily an Android phone, and, of course, they did of this Passwords app. They did make a Mac app, and they also did make a Chrome extension, which is interesting. But yeah, no Android app, and I still log into a so it's not for me. But number three is gonna have to be the new home screen customization. Some of you might've like number one or number and maybe let me know So, the day has finally come. There is new customization stuff available to iPhone home screens, kinda. I mean, there's some good stuff I'll start with the stuff I like. Here's the easy part: iPhone users can now put their icons anywhere on their home Welcome to 2024, iPhone users. Who's got it better than you? Now, everything still snaps but now you can actually or the bottom of your home screen where they'll actually be reachable, and they won't have to How cool is that? First, they give you widgets, It's unbelievable stuff. But now, okay, if you wanna you hold down on anywhere and there's a little You hit that, and then you hit customize, and then this is it. This is the entire home for the iPhone. So you can go dark mode, which tints your and then sets your icons that have a dark mode Or you could set light It sets your icons to light, and it tints your wallpaper But there's also this large button here, which just makes all of your icons larger, but then also removes the text. Honestly, kind of clean, not gonna lie. But then there's this tinted button, which feels kind of cursed. So this is already kind When you click it, it of all the icons on your home screen to a single matching color. Which sounds kind of cool in And actually, there's even a color picker to drop exactly the same color that you're using from your But there's just something about this tint that I can't quite get right. Like, I haven't gotten any combination to really look that good at all. Now, there's been some updates Still doesn't look great. Like, it looks better than before. But here's what I think is going on here. There are certain apps that and high-contrast icons that look fine. Like, some of them are Apple apps, some of them are third-party apps, and then especially Apple widgets. Like, look at this weather widget. That looks great. That looks really solid because it keeps But then there are also and widgets that just Like, they may need to be updated to support this tinting thing So it's the mixing of Like even on my home like the weather app, or Superlist, they look worse than the rest of the icons on my home screen. I think the standard is, like, a dark gray background with a tinted glyph in the middle, instead of the whole thing being tinted. So it is what it is. I will also say Google has also tried this with Material You in Android, and it also kind of went weird in its own different, unique way. Basically, it would set all the icons to a monochrome version, but it just didn't change. So a lot of people had a and colorful icons, which So, I guess the tinting method could be considered a workaround. I'm sure people will play with this more. Icons will continue to get updates. I'm sure someday maybe it'll but I haven't seen that yet. But all right, number two, Again, there are a bunch and small features that but they'll kind of feel like they add up to a bunch of useful things in the end. A lot of them didn't But, like, game mode, for We know that when you have a game open, it gives it CPU priority and for any wireless That's a really simple The Photos app also got a redesign, but I also am more impressed inside of Photos. It works much better. So if I search for, like not only does it recognize and find all the photos in your but it also gives you these to find the exact one and it actually works. I've also noticed they to Shazam everywhere, including as one of the new defaults This wasn't here before. I thought that was interesting. And then I Googled it, and not that long ago, which So there you have more of that. And RCS support does appear to finally be live on the iPhone in 2024. (clapping) It's going great. Now, as I predicted, it but you can now finally text between any modern Android phone and an iPhone and actually get high-quality media. I sent myself a three-megabyte and I got a full-quality And there's also now typing indicators and read receipts now. Reactions seem to be working well. So it's not fully integrated like maybe some people were hoping. But Apple can now say and now that person doesn't have to buy his mom an iPhone. But then number one. The number one best new feature in iOS 18, bro, it's a calculator. (chuckling) It's actually the calculator. Now, you might have thought 'cause we all saw this in iPadOS 18, but it actually So, as a default, you open it just looks like a basic calculator. This looks very familiar. But at the bottom left, where you can switch to Okay, pretty classic. Or you can switch to this And now it basically So you can create a new note and literally just start You can write an equation, and if you happen to it can automatically solve and keep it updated as you It's pretty sick. There are also all kinds from variables to graphs. It's basically doing everything I was asking Wolfram|Alpha to do lately. But a kind of underrated it feels very well considered, and it's also syncing across devices just, like, as a bunch of notes. So your calculator just kind So, if you add a bunch of the iPad with the calculator and you can edit them on the other device. And if you happen to redefine a variable lower down in the same note, then it actually knows to treat that variable as but keeps the old value It's very well impressively thought out. Now, obviously, this with a bigger screen and But, man, I was doing with a paper notebook and a TI-84. So, at the risk of sounding kind of old, I totally wish I had something like this when I was in school. It's very impressive. It's doing so many things. It's recognizing my handwriting. It's obviously answering the but it's also writing the and then it's straightening everything up. And it's making everything through not just that Math but across my whole phone. So it's pretty sick. I'm impressed by this more than anything else So that's why it's my number But there's your whole top five. But like I said, get into Apple Intelligence 'cause this is the thing the entire iPhone and So that video's coming up soon, Thanks for watching. Catch you the next one. Peace.