I just dropped off five men and five And whichever group survives I give you all three days. That money is all ours! That is your side of the woods, And you are not at any point or you'll be disqualified. You should go start prepping - We out! Men or women, let's see who wins. There's no way the girls are beating us. They're not five men. - How do you think the guys are doing? They probably stopped by now. We're not going to survive, As long as we're good We'll be fine. Oh, we got strawberries. What? Anything that's around I'm already seeing a shelter There it is. - This will be our shelter. And miles away on the other side, the girls found a spot The water looks pretty bad so I'm hoping we can follow it back and maybe find a clean source This is nice. Yeah, this might be the spot Things might be going smooth now, but this challenge will become the If I left now, I would regret it. It's so hard out here. I just heard some move in there, bro. I don't think we're alone out here. Okay, let's check what supplies we have. - Fruit. Sausage. Dude, you got all the meat. I also gave each of them and some key survival gear. That's not a lot of food. We're gonna have to figure out how Attention! Can all of you hear me? - We hear you loud and clear. - We hear you loud and clear. I just want to make sure on how this challenge works. If a person leaves this challenge, they The only thing that matters is - What? No one ever does. It's up to each of you to decide to help your teammates, Also, for this entire challenge, are still left on their side, how many women are left It's a game of strategy. That food goes a lot further Are we really only going to be able We'll cross that bridge when we get there. If anybody does quit, - I will 100% holding it against you. Hey, after that first week, - We got to strategize. Hey, we're a team bro. - We're making it. Girls rule, boys drool. For the rest of the night. Both camps began constructing their shelters and the guys built theirs We have the whole teepee built The girls are not doing that. Actually, they are. And they're doing it - And, up! I'm going to try and get a fire prepped. Bet we beat the guys in that. - There we go. Let's go. What a Freakin start of a journey, boys. Night number one was kind of rough. It took me a long time Good morning. We need more walls Let's get making our house. I think the girls are doing We are going through the woods And to get clean water. The boys had to travel miles I hope the girls have to go I'm not going to lie. You can't see anything I do not want to drink swamp water. Well over a mile and a half. It's day two. And after hours of searching, the boys We made it. Finally. By day three, the women were already some of their teammates If we as a team want to win this, it's not sustainable I would like to have two people here I would agree. And it was very clear who those two girls would be. Phaedra and Julia are our survival mommies, and call to help The boys, on the other hand, We are definitely not rationing it like, no, there's no talking Five people is a lot of people eating We can't last to the end Day four Josh and I were talking While they are the entertainers. TJ and I were carrying the weight. Just been building, building, And there's those three still They just want to be served. Josh are you gonna tell - Yeah. Did you know the food was done? - No. Hey, I thought so, silence. By this point, the boys weren't even a week into the against one of their own. I will directly say to Josh, it looks like you're and then we're burning Gods amounts of energy day in and day out. And that hurt a lot. I mean, if anything past burning about doing backflips and showing So it made me contemplate today whether I really want to do this While tension was making The girls were ready to do the same, - This food load might have to change. We're still not It is time to start as a team, sending It can't be more than two people So we have as a team decided This is Hannah, We will discreetly evacuate you out Let's do it with a discreet We're about to pull up on their camp I'm going to step away It makes sense. More food Let's get you out of here. I want you winning okay? You did so good! If the women end up winning. You're the smartest one here. You're the first out, A lot of people said "look Well, Hannah can consider herself intense rainstorms to stay in their shelters We definitely can't live off So come day ten, And if you've ever seen one It's time for a challenge. But to make it even more intense the boys and girls are going And we're gonna kick things off Hi. It's day ten. You're going to give us some Depends. I need you to pick a leader for a potential prize. I'll meet you at the bridge This is where we take the video We choose Phaedra. Let's go see how the boys are doing. Welcome to the men's camp. You guys look so official. I need you guys to elect a leader will meet me at the bridge. Unanimously, Killer p Man, I'm feeling extremely confident. Inside I feel a little scared. Come on in. Congratulations on surviving How's it going? Really well, actually. And remember, they have no idea how many people are still left How many women do you think There's three. - How many men do you think are left? The funny thing is, and neither will know the truth This challenge is simple. You're going to take turns And hanging from beneath a target If you hit the target, But if you miss, She will then get an opportunity I'm so good at archery. I'm definitely second of sending Patrick and not me. - Oh Phaedra is gonna kill it. Whatever it lands on fires first. Not in the water! - Men! Fire away. Shot number one. - Have you ever shot an arrow before? Oh. All right. I feel like I'm - Yeah. First time shooting an arrow. - Bro, what happens? Move the target to the other side. Let's see if the women's Whoa! She's taking the jacket off. Oh, it's go time. Phaedra, your team desperately Will you be the one to bring them She got it! - Yeah! No way! Dude, that was like watching All right, let's go grab it. - Cheers to victory! Cut to a shot of the boys. They're struggling. Let's go, let's go. So y'all also need to I've noticed you keep saying y'all. So. Wait what? We had to dip into our rations And look at this. So although it adds for a while, And so we had the conversation - You think about leaving right now. Conveniently I'm already here - if you just want to hitch a ride back? And so with a toast of Feastables Bye Divas! We'll see you on the outside. The women's team while the men's team I know we can win this - I do too. With plenty of food and one The girls morale was through I'm feeling really good, We've been really pushing ourselves So to have Cheers, guys. Delicious. However, losing the challenge I'm beating myself up pretty badly Everyone thought - Killer P. I should have When I was sitting on that chair I just thought it should have been me. The next challenge will be me. The girls enjoyed their abundance Cheers. The boys unfortunately Let's go babe. No. No way. With the rations running dangerously the boys team was starting to become Bro Cam, I'm so glad I know I may seem sluggish, Like I have nothing in me. The pressure had really started and while Sami tried But the morning of day 13, The sleep deprivation has taken its toll. - I just hit my breaking point. Hold it down man. - I appreciate the journey, man. That was a big bummer. - Losing Cam today. But the boys weren't Today is Talia's day. We're going to miss her very much. We are. While the girls were leaving strategically the boys, on the other hand, I'm so defeated. I'm grateful for this. It's just. This is freakin tough. Just had a break down, bro. Do you think you can make it Oh, no. Alright bro. Big Hug So after giving some extra help the boys went to bed and made What up boys? I got a message on the walkie. It's going to have to be I'm not going to be the big macho All right, everyone, let's Leaving the boys camp - Sami, give the guys a parting gift. - I'll take a T-shirt. Let's get those shorts Now that you've taken everything He's free to go. He is now in the Sherpa, which means Karl, get him out of here! Now we're down to three. Is Two days from now, Absolutely not. Just two weeks into the challenge, and things were only getting worse. I looked at that truck that picked him up I don't know if I can make it to With Josh already on the verge of quitting. Things got even worse It's raining right here. Unlike the girls who could sleep back at the boys camp, their home was not equipped This is not how I want this to end. The torrential downpours My raincoat had drenched through was soaking wet in my waders I was like, ready to quit. The rain has finally cleared up Mama Phaedra is making us I've got a little beef stew. - I bet the boys are enjoying a happy meal. Bad news, I ran into my worst enemy. Poison ivy. It's spreading everywhere And I started wondering We're in a better Has to be, right? Not a lot of people can take this Hey, guys, we need to talk. The things I wanted to do, And at some point The selfish I get a bigger meal. Hey, this is Josh at men's camp. I think I am ready to go today. And just like that, Josh was out. - Josh, hop on in. Let's hit the road. I'm gonna say this like, honestly, I We have enough food to last us plus win all the challenges. That's a pretty bold statement. So let's put that claim to the test. - What day is it, Chandler? It's day 20. Which means it's time for our second Alert! Alert! Pick a captain Easy work. All right. I'll see you in a minute. I'm going to show her that Since both of you didn't come You step across the middle. which may affect your team's Chandler, can you give me - It's okay. We'll put it back. - Hello. - Nice to meet you. My team and I are offering you. And whoever's still at camp $50,000 Sounds like you might be scared Anyone else feel the tension here? We'll see in day 33 You're only giving yourself till day 33? Giving you till day 33. You guys are being as nice Also talking so much smack Let's bring it together. So, because the storms your shelters in this challenge, you're gonna be competing This thing is bug proof. Waterproof. Hurricane season's coming Would you want something like this? I mean, I'll take it, but if the guys get this taste - Or it can make them last longer. Oh, this is very nice. It's decision time. So this is different than the last could win a tent. I'm going to be in that tent. It would sit really nicely right there. All you have to do... is eliminate yourself. If Julia does take this, we won't That'll be hard. Since the women won - I need you to make your decision first. Do you want to eliminate yourself I'm going to take the tent. Okay. So, it looks like, I am I honestly can't believe Now it's your turn. You or that tent? All right. My team. - Thanks for coming out. That was crazy. Wait wait wait wait wait wait. I think it would really be huge for the overall strategy I thought I was actually going to get This isn't 100% rain proof. That My whole mood has just changed. Back at the bridge, while Phaedra was gathering her TJ secretly Wait. No way. And what he found was like striking It's weird to send only one Now I know there's only one She will not outlast the two of us. I got to tell Pat. Patrick, I spied on them, The person that you went We have two, less food, less shelter. Now that you say like that, I feel like Would The tent. Unfortunately for TJ, the Intel he gathered at the bridge worse for the boys. He turned down dry shelter to come back. What kind of brother If he would've took the tent, Because we all know shelter And at the girls camp, Phaedra setting up her brand new tent Look at that. It's awesome. Just in case people are wondering It's nice and cool in here. No bugs. There is more room than I know While Phaedra had more room, the boys realized that having each if they wanted to win their You may have that tent, Us here at the guys camp, so we could always be socializing. And by challenge three, For sure, bro. It was a pleasure Having such a lovely human Got me spoiled, honestly. The boys seem to have much more About to go crawdad hunting. Need to get some food. Living off the land was going much There we go, and that's But while the boys are finally Phaedra has found herself I do miss having with people and like being able or just like even a handshake How about a high five? At this point, talking to herself However, the boy's bond Dang, dude, that's as big as you. Look at the size of that thing. Dude, that's literally 5.5ft long. Sorry, six foot five. I'm so excited for Challenge Day I'm hoping I'm ready to go home to my family. We're going to see how challenge With TJ and Patrick's bond I knew exactly how to test them Are you going to be the captain? I was asking around, - By default, I'm the captain. You did day ten. You did day 20. Who's going to be the day 30 captain? - Patrick. Lets go. Go get that dub. All right, this time we've painted Been a while I'm really surprised to see you Yeah. - Are you two ready to hear the challenge? - Yes, sir. We have the families still in this challenge And you guys have a choice to make. You can see your family, or everyone You know, I do have a son so, I... I'm going to choose myself. Phaedra could've just tricked Patrick into How about you? Are you picking your I got to see my kids. I choose myself, too. Okay. Load the helicopters Oh, it's so good to see you. - Say Mister - Beast. - Challenge. - Let's go! Let's go. I miss my mom. And I really missed my son. My family is the main reason And the reason My time has just been reset. I'll see y'all ten days. I'm just going to sit here I haven't felt like the best today. I've had some time to reflect I'm super grateful and for having him come, I really want to go home. I'm not going anywhere. I was a little bit worried I'm locked But it just lit a fire underneath Obviously, trusting another person. This right here is about to prove how important a strong compared to doing things on your own. And although having someone by being alone had its perks as well. I don't even know I literally have more food I'm not going anywhere, Men's camp. And so it was the battle That is, until the night came and the men's camp got a What is that? There's something out there. Stay still. And when the morning came, TJ to find out exactly just what Yeah, Verified by our trail cam. A bear came up right which would be enough to scare Last night, a bear came through camp. Awesome. And although Patrick was feeling I'm not going anywhere. This close encounter Haven't you seen my family? That bear got me realizing It's like breaking news. I'm a DJ. Yo, TJ, - Yeah. What's up? The rations will make more sense if I leave Him saying to me, I trust you, Yes. For this is... He's going to be fine. Please let me grab the talkie. This is Patrick at Man's camp. I am exiting the competition. On my way. And since I have Logan I guess I'll bring them along too. Dude, this is gorgeous. If you're gonna survive in the wilderness, Bro how do you know where anything is? What? What? Oh, no. I just saw a little fly. Yo, Patrick. I got the call that you want to go? Yeah, I want to leave him - Can I see how much food you have left? - Come over to our pantry. How long do you think This will get me to day 60, challenge 6. How long do you think By challenge No shot. She already has 13 days in I'm just starting at one. I am alone. So with both camps now they both had to find ways to make it through the next And while TJ hunted the animals to make up for his dwindling Big Belly. Phaedra was hunting them Little princess Shirley. Neither TJ or Phaedra were showing which brought them which of course Welcome back. It's been ten days. Hi. Dude it's awesome but how do you logically plan Because we have enough rations I don't have And then on top of that, There's nothing to do. I don't like to get ahead of myself and be like, "Yeah, I've got 90 days, Because like when you started But in 20 days, 30 days, What about Lincoln? I don't really think you should use children's names That's not appropriate. I will use whatever weapon I can. It's getting intense. How you decide to treat me has no factor Likewise. Time for a day 40 challenge. Both of you will be presented If you want it, then simply write it down on your board However, if both of you write it This means that you'll have to try to convince each other And for our first item, and all the bait And one of you give up an item They both wrote fishing rod. Not off to a good start. Our next item is Dude Wipes Dude Wipes are flushable made from 99% plant Oh very refreshing. It's time for what might be the most Not only are but Dude Wipes also work which these two could use. He wrote Dude Wipes. Nothing. Whoa, congratulations! Here you go! I got Dude Wipes. Item number three because they're the sponsor of the video. - What do you think of the Dude Wipe? Yeah, it's working amazing. Did you write anything? He did not. If you want to be like these two Just go to Walmart, Amazon They sell them there, stop That's for losers. Getting to clean themselves after and at this point, either one but thanks to the girls strategy of intentionally eliminating Phaedra's not worried about food at all. They say how much gas you have is until they decide As the days passed, TJ was getting more confident I'm just so set on this I'll be heavily surprised Everything in my heart, Even though it's come down to a 1v1, for their fallen soldiers. And as for TJ, a victory couldn't I'm going to have Just make sure that I'm going to have a fantastic And now it was time to put all that if our day 50 challenge Contestants, come on in. I couldn't make day 50 because I'm currently - so I'm hologramming in. Oh my gosh this is insane! It's pretty brutal, not going to lie. You guys haven't You want to talk? All right. What do you two think I have no idea. I see a container For day 50. We're going to celebrate. And you both get Feastables. - Okay! But little did they know, You each get a multipack That's so nice. Yeah. These are available in Walmart, Go buy Feastables - That's it. Enjoy your chocolate or save it. See you on day 60. - Are they far away? Okay, what they don't know Chandler is inside one of those that tells them to come back to the You show the viewers Let's see who finds the message And wins that food. I'll see you in a couple I love you. Wait. Say it back. He didn't say it. Challenge five. We finally got our Feastables. These are chocolate. Chocolate will melt. So I need to find the best way I think I might just open another one I know that seems excessive, I have one square after every meal throughout My mental health right now after While TJ was feeling confident, that he barely made I feel like I'm better rationing my because that's a better commodity. So I know I have to save it. And save it he did. TJ went the next three days without touching But then on day 57, he found his A peanut butter Feastable. Whoa, wait, what? If you're reading this, worth of food on the bridge Feastable, you'll have to wait. Let's go. Three days worth of food. So much. Let's go. I don't see her. This might be a man victory. Looks to be she already got it. Dang. Phaedra actually beat out TJ because Three days worth of food. It's still here people. Oh, you guys. It feels really good to win this. Dang, Phaedra's not I just feel so sad now. Feels like If TJ isn't careful, that feeling One of these contestants while the other will have and go home with I can't live off the land because and it's not even a guarantee We just killed the last It has been difficult Every day is hard and is kind of It is night 59. I will run out of rations tomorrow. I am praying that the prize I don't want to give up just yet. It's time for the day 60 challenge. So you guys met on day 40, Day 50 and once again on day 60. It's the two of you. How is the three days I was going to ask you. How are you feeling? Oh, I got ten days left in me. The day 60 challenge is simple. Both of you write down You'll then show each and if you approve each other's But if just one of you says no, You could ask for a lot and there's Or you could ask for a little - Do you have what you want written down? Do you have what you want written down? - Yes. Phaedra wants an art kit for seven days, two meals a day, Do you approve her Oh, yeah. TJ approved you getting an art kit. So nice. Do you approve his private chef Two meals a day with spices? I will run out of rations tomorrow. Oh, man. I would love to, but I can't, What? You were too greedy. That was day 60. You're free to talk Good luck in the next ten days. - See you on day 70? - All right. - Bye. For me, the physical aspects of It's the mental things. There goes that idea. I had everyone's hopes I think I'm going to have to put I want to go home so badly. I've just been out here for so long. I just received a radio call saying The person Bring out the team. Each contestant here is about to Will it be the men or the women? The contestant who forfeited The boys lost and the girls won. We didn't want you guys to go home so we're going to give each of you Phaedra, still alone at the girls Phaedra, are you here? - You're back? Come with me real quick. I found this backpack, It might be. That was actually a lie. You just won! You did it! I really missed you guys. - I thought you guys every day - Yeah. You all just won $100,000 each. Maybe next time boys.