Wild West saloons of the American West. From small camps to they were a fixture across the frontier. While there was plenty saloons also served as an place. But contrary to their depiction wasn't all rigged poker Today, we're exploring what like in the Old West. But before we get started, to the Weird History channel. And let us know in the other Wild West topics you All right, let's cozy up a mule, Skinner. [MUSIC PLAYING] Life on the American But it was also a bit lonely. After a day of farming, building young men needed a way Saloons offered refuge from of the frontier. So they did what the rest of us they went out for a drink. Saloons were more They were a social hub. People gather to relax and drink and travelers. Sometimes, they talked but mostly, they Single men would seek and after a day of Though violence did often occur at saloons, as gunsmoke would suggest. At former saloon sites one could find more than bullets or other [MUSIC PLAYING] Now if you were creating what kind of establishment A saloon, of course. Saloons served several essential and were often the focal Need to trade some furs Saloons had you covered. Looking for a place to sleep? Some saloons provided Communities might even hold gatherings in a saloon. Only in the wild, wild west in the same place If a town didn't have doubled as a makeshift chapel. Drinking and gambling as a preacher would That didn't mean it was always In August 1884, Reverend AF held his first Presbyterian According to a several cowboys shouted and a few sent revolver The saloon keeper shortly thereafter. Saloons were kind of like the a place to find work, get news, Saloons ultimately brought together as they moved through of the American West. [MUSIC PLAYING] Setting up a saloon For a small site, it only and some liquor. As towns thrived, saloons Owners expanded their of the camp or town. It was easier for the to survive by investing into their establishments. Saloons and mining When the gold and silver stopped As towns grew, saloons expanded. They grew larger, moved and diversified Along with improved furnishings, developed and created to spend more time at the bar. Some cities saw a significant Fort Worth, Texas by the time the White Elephant After its founding in had about 30 saloons. But by 1890, that That's a long pub crawl. [MUSIC PLAYING] While Hollywood's is undoubtedly imaginative, When they first started saloons were basically Even as they became more most saloons remained Some had wooden but these weren't the norm. Location played a in the type of decor patrons Since building materials happened to be available depending on the location. A prairie saloon might from the set of Have Gun, Mountain saloons might look more characterized by fine heads on the walls. In San Francisco had chandeliers and mirrors. It just depended on wanted to get a drink. But the ideal opportunity to was in Texas in the 1850s. Fort Worth's First was just a small dingy room with How's that for a Three decades later, the White upped the ante with a two-story and only the finest [MUSIC PLAYING] Today, the price of consistent in major Go into any bar or find similar prices But that simply wasn't West, where drink on a saloon's location. Procuring liquor to remote and the prices A whiskey or beer shot might territory, but only half as Emerging social classes on the Where cheap saloons provided the fancier to business people and ranchers [MUSIC PLAYING] Saloons were a bit of a as barmaids and entertainers in Maulda Branscomb, known was the quintessential Earning her nickname for her she lived and worked of Tombstone, Arizona. Branscomb was, at times, a a dancer, and a prostitute. At one point, she even after she physically tossed after the guy fired a shot Sometimes, women But when it came persuaded men to buy often receiving a One anti-saloon advocate, didn't like what he He wrote about it in his 1908 saying, &quot;In Denver, saloons were full of drinking with the One would come up and 'How's things for a drink?' The barkeeper would say, 'Yes, It cost $0.25 at the cheapest If one took a $0.05 drink the bill was $0.25. Of this, the house kept a dime which she cashed at the To help women avoid getting bartenders sometimes swapped watered down beer. [MUSIC PLAYING] Cheers barfly Norm would not have enjoyed If patrons wanted they wouldn't find Bar stools simply didn't exist. Instead, there was around tables, where Although seating was no shortage of Placed on hooks along patrons used the to wipe beer from their Unlike napkins, the towels They were rarely washed with germs and bacteria. If that weren't unsavory enough, were everyday Bar owners place spittoons but cowboys spit on It didn't help any when some displayed signs that read, &quot;If spit on the floor here. We want you to feel at home.&quot; It's kind of like having but handing out cigars. If tobacco juice or spilled beer a little dirt or sawdust Sawdust-- nature's magic eraser. [MUSIC PLAYING] A bartender in the Old West They provided security, and often moved to as demand for good Between 1860 and of bartenders on the to nearly 50,000. It was a competitive profession that attracted people It became such a that bartender manuals started With the assistance of books How to Mix All Kinds of bartenders improved their craft Saloon proprietors wrote like Harry Johnson's New and Improved Illustrated or How to Mix Drinks Readers of Johnson's book of mixing drinks, but also salesman. I bet your college textbooks Expert bartenders were held like professor or mixologist. Like Harry Johnson and some even had a set of utensils. Mixologists took their One famous recipient of The brother of Wyatt of the family business and ended up in the By the 1870s, he ran a When thirsty travelers he'd serve them a very likely sent them along to a Oh, that's a cute [MUSIC PLAYING] Saloons were intended of different backgrounds to One account for the time at a California The people composing the crowd respectable-looking fresh from the diggings purses, dirty old flannel Per the book, Legendary the saloons that saloons didn't always with money in their pockets. That image was romanticizing the Old West. African-Americans, Native or other immigrant patrons often But as towns became built their own that exclusively served Irish and men of German heritage with each one catering to a One of these was in Virginia City, Nevada. First opening its doors was located outside the but relocated to the town's Operated by William was famous among until it closed in 1875. After it closed, a called Pacific Appeal of the thriving establishment. But its story was far from over. In 1997, the city discovered A full excavation uncovering evidence of establishment that and had regular [MUSIC PLAYING] While it may have been Brett poker wasn't the Faro, a game during the 17th was considerably more popular. It was fast, easy to pick up, other games of chance. What's not to love? Faro used a single deck of cards and a dealer, named a banker. The dealer placed 13 cards Then he flipped over and one card for the player. Bets on the same suit were losers, while earned some cash. Players could place multiple And the inclusion made it popular among Poker was still commonly and roulette tables in the more at some saloons. Gamblers often met The combination of usually parted saloon But it was all part As one Montana cowboy explained, I wanted to have a good time. I usually took a few into a game of poker and [MUSIC PLAYING] Just like our TV stereotypes, sometimes played Violence was usually caused by Drunken men might come to at cards or just start a brawl Drunken brawls could On October 5, 1871, led to Marshall James Wild a fellow officer, who During a brawl that had a saloon operator named Phil with Hickok. Coe fired a few he was trying to Hickok decided to a pistol within city limits. Then without warning, Coe hitting the sidewalk and Hickok pulled his gun hitting Coe twice Coe died a few days later. The third bullet accidentally who'd heard the commotion The event marked that would haunt him for tragically ended in a saloon. In 1876, Hickok was and Mann's Saloon Number in Deadwood, South Dakota. Hickok was seated with holding a pair of aces and The door burst open, and point blank by Jack McCall. This variety of violence led to The rise of the during the late 19th century about the saloon's Groups like the and the Women's Christian attempted to stop One of their leaders, took a decidedly more Nation took her puter hatchet shouting, &quot;Smash! Smash! For the love of Jesus, smash!&quot; She'd proceed to destroy property as possible. She was arrested but became a celebrity within For a time, she even Various factors led to including employers during the workday banning some of the less of the establishments. Bans on gambling were introduced around striking a blow to saloons As cities grew and expanded, saloons provided disappeared, businesses or institutions. Saloons lost their steadily encroached. The establishment of was the final nail in the And the world virtually by the end of Some original Old West saloons, in Texas and Silver still stand today. But it's probably at your own local watering hole. After all, sometimes to go where everybody So what do you think? What would you order Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.