So in college, I was a government major, which means I had to write Now, when a normal student writes a paper, they might spread the work out So, you know -- (Laughter) you get started maybe a little slowly, but you get enough done in the first week that, with some heavier days later on, everything gets done, things stay civil. (Laughter) And I would want to do that like that. That would be the plan. I would have it all ready to go, but then, actually, the paper and then I would kind of do this. (Laughter) And that would happen every single paper. But then came my 90-page senior thesis, a paper you're supposed And I knew for a paper like that, It was way too big a project. So I planned things out, and I decided I kind of had This is how the year would go. So I'd start off light, and I'd bump it up in the middle months, and then at the end, just like a little staircase. How hard could it be No big deal, right? But then, the funniest thing happened. Those first few months? They came and went, and I couldn't quite do stuff. So we had an awesome new revised plan. (Laughter) And then -- (Laughter) But then those middle months and I didn't really write words, and so we were here. And then two months turned into one month, which turned into two weeks. And one day I woke up with three days until the deadline, still not having written a word, and so I did the only thing I could: I wrote 90 pages over 72 hours, pulling not one but two all-nighters -- humans are not supposed to pull sprinted across campus, dove in slow motion, and got it in just at the deadline. I thought that was the end of everything. But a week later I get a call, and it's the school. And they say, &quot;Is this Tim Urban?&quot; And I say, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And they say, &quot;We need And I say, &quot;OK.&quot; And they say, &quot;It's the best one we've ever seen.&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) That did not happen. (Laughter) It was a very, very bad thesis. (Laughter) I just wanted to enjoy that one moment &quot;This guy is amazing!&quot; (Laughter) No, no, it was very, very bad. Anyway, today I'm a writer-blogger guy. I write the blog Wait But Why. And a couple of years ago, My behavior has always perplexed and I wanted to explain what goes on in the heads and why we are the way we are. Now, I had a hypothesis that the brains of procrastinators than the brains of other people. And to test this, I found an MRI lab that actually let me scan both my brain and the brain of a proven so I could compare them. I actually brought them here I want you to take a look carefully I know that if you're not it's not that obvious, So here's the brain (Laughter) Now ... here's my brain. (Laughter) There is a difference. Both brains have a Rational but the procrastinator's brain also has an Instant Gratification Monkey. Now, what does this mean Well, it means everything's fine [This is a perfect time So the Rational Decision-Maker to do something productive, but the Monkey doesn't like that plan, so he actually takes the wheel, and he says, &quot;Actually, let's read of the Nancy Kerrigan/ because I just remembered (Laughter) Then -- (Laughter) Then we're going to go over to the fridge, to see if there's anything new After that, we're going to go that starts with videos and ends much, much later with Justin Bieber's mom. (Laughter) &quot;All of that's going to take a while, so we're not going to really have room Sorry!&quot; (Sigh) Now, what is going on here? The Instant Gratification Monkey you want behind the wheel. He lives entirely in the present moment. He has no memory of the past, and he only cares about two things: easy and fun. Now, in the animal world, that works fine. If you're a dog and you spend your whole life doing you're a huge success! (Laughter) And to the Monkey, humans are just another animal species. You have to keep well-slept, well-fed which in tribal times But, if you haven't noticed, We're in an advanced civilization, Which is why we have the Rational Decision-Maker, who gives us the ability to do things We can visualize the future. We can see the big picture. We can make long-term plans. And he wants to take And he wants to just have us do whatever makes sense Now, sometimes it makes sense to be doing things that are easy and fun, like when you're having dinner or enjoying well-earned leisure time. That's why there's an overlap. Sometimes they agree. But other times, it makes much more sense to be doing things that are harder for the sake of the big picture. And that's when we have a conflict. And for the procrastinator, that conflict tends to end leaving him spending a lot of time an easy and fun place that's entirely I call it the Dark Playground. (Laughter) Now, the Dark Playground is a place that all of you procrastinators It's where leisure activities happen at times when leisure activities The fun you have in the Dark Playground isn't actually fun, and the air is filled with guilt, all of those good procrastinator feelings. And the question is, in this situation, how does the procrastinator ever get a less pleasant place, but where Well, turns out the procrastinator someone who's always looking in his darkest moments -- someone called the Panic Monster. (Laughter) Now, the Panic Monster but he suddenly wakes up or there's danger of public embarrassment, a career disaster or some other And importantly, he's the only thing Now, he became very relevant because the people of TED and invited me to do a TED Talk. (Laughter) Now, of course, I said yes. It's always been a dream of mine (Laughter) (Applause) But in the middle of all this excitement, the Rational Decision-Maker seemed He was saying, &quot;Are we clear Do we get what's going to be now We need to sit down And the Monkey said, &quot;Totally agree, and zoom in to the bottom of India, and scroll up for two and a half hours so we can get a better feel for India.&quot; (Laughter) So that's what we did that day. (Laughter) As six months turned into four the people of TED decided And I opened up the website, staring right back at me. And guess who woke up? (Laughter) So the Panic Monster and a few seconds later, (Laughter) And the Monkey -- remember, boom, he's up the tree! And finally, finally, the Rational Decision-Maker and I can start working on the talk. Now, the Panic Monster explains all kinds of pretty insane like how someone like me unable to start the opening and then miraculously find to stay up all night And this entire situation, this is the procrastinator's system. It's not pretty, but in the end, it works. This is what I decided to write about When I did, I was amazed by the response. Literally thousands of emails came in, from all different kinds of people doing all different kinds of things. These are people who were nurses, and lots and lots of PhD students. (Laughter) And they were all writing, &quot;I have this problem too.&quot; But what struck me was the contrast and the heaviness of these emails. These people were writing about what procrastination about what this Monkey had done to them. And I thought about this, and I said, well, if the procrastinator's system Why are all of these people Well, it turns out that there's Everything I've talked about today, they all have deadlines. And when there's deadlines, the effects of procrastination because the Panic Monster gets involved. But there's a second kind that happens in situations So if you wanted a career something in the arts, there's no deadlines on those things not until you've gone out to get momentum, get things going. There's also all kinds of important things that don't involve any deadlines, like seeing your family or exercising working on your relationship or getting out of a relationship Now if the procrastinator's only mechanism is the Panic Monster, that's a problem, because in all of these the Panic Monster doesn't show up. He has nothing to wake up for, so the effects of procrastination, they just extend outward forever. And it's this long-term that's much less visible than the funnier, short-term It's usually suffered And it can be the source of a huge amount of long-term And I thought, that's why and that's why they're It's not that they're cramming It's that long-term procrastination at times, in their own lives. The frustration is not it's that they weren't even So I read these emails that I don't think That's right -- I think all of you Now, you might not all be a mess, like some of us, (Laughter) and some of you may have but remember: the Monkey's sneakiest trick is when the deadlines aren't there. Now, I want to show you one last thing. I call this a Life Calendar. That's one box for every week That's not that many boxes, especially since we've already So I think we need to all take a long, We need to think about what because everyone is procrastinating We need to stay aware That's a job for all of us. And because there's not it's a job that should Well, maybe not today, but ... (Laughter) You know. Sometime soon. Thank you. (Applause)