Every Disney Movie Tie-In Video Game Ranked Unless you've been living under a rock for of a little thing called The Walt Disney Company. Formed in the 1920s by its eponymous creator, early and mid-twentieth century, and when late 80s, their movies became a consistent Luckily for us, this renaissance coincided of video games for the common household. A chance for more marketing, a way to grow lives of families to a greater degree all mouse with both hands and lo, the Disney movie But what, exactly, counts as a tie-in? To answer that, we first have to set some Disney movie - especially as the company For our purposes, it must have had a theatrical movies, and has to have been released under companies, such as 20th Century Fox or Touchstone We will be including Pixar, due to their films but we won't be including anything by Lucasfilm a Star Wars or Spiderman list you're in luck In short, if it doesn't say "Disney" on In order to qualify for this list, a game to an entire franchise, and based on that plot, expanding upon it, or using just part We don't mind which it is; just don't take and out of context is all we're asking. Like usual we're not covering edutainment, we'll also be discounting colouring or photoshop-style like pinball or chess, and any game without No, buying the cereal box it came in doesn't We're also not considering re-releases or the original game's entry, though drastically To determine the rankings, we've fed these which takes into account critical review scores, and just a dash of our own opinions. Finally, we're putting a spoiler warning in list just to be safe - but we're sure that With all of that nice and clear, let's rank I'm Ben and I'm Peter from TripleJump, and Ranked from Worst to Best. #109 - Hannah Montana: The Movie (2009) No, we've not forgotten the rules already. Despite being a Disney Channel creation, Hannah and bagged a spot on this list for her tie-in Receiving unfavourable reviews from critics brings us the worst of both worlds with this As in the film, the game sees Miley revisit and mundane roots. Ride a horse, flirt with the boy fixing the townsfolk to progress the story and unlock Unfortunately, this involves completing minigames between NPCs that have nothing worthwhile After herding animals into their pens like performances should provide a welcome change, interaction really doesn't give players The rhythm sections aren't much better either, of the songs due to inaccurate timing. The most entertainment to be had here came used to hack the console. This caused a surge in demand for the game many would-be scalpers red in the face when Yeah, this probably could've been a lot better #108 - Disney's Mulan (1998) Let's get down to business... to be disappointed that it's based on. Oh, and to defeat the Huns as well, I suppose. In the movie, Mulan, the eponymous protagonist and takes names to honour her family and protect The game, however, showcases none of her character features is bad collision detection, and she and throwing rocks. The setting is appropriate, and follows the army; but with no comedic dragon and posing players, Disney's Mulan feels as bland as Did we mention it was released just two days Yeah, that was badly timed. I would say the final boss fight is anticlimactic, up enough for the climax to be anti. In the movie, Mulan's battle with Shan Yu but here, you're on your own - and it's Shan Yu back into the fireworks that defeat Even this explosive ending doesn't help, but Year's display, and more like a couple of #107 - The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause GBA The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause sees normal problems alongside their famous alter-ego. Sound familiar? I never thought I'd be comparing Hannah For the player character, Scott - better film - Christmas is the order of the day. Mediocre but serviceable platforming levels to defeat or avoid, and cookies to collect Aside from the stills that summarise the story, and while the gameplay is okay and the controls lack variety. Jack Frost's plot to depose Scott doesn't - off-screen, of course - and the main contrast is decorated with gingerbread chic, or as guards. Reclaiming the mantle of Santa doesn't involve the thing that the film is literally about fight with his frozen foe. A boss battle isn't an inappropriate choice an odd one here. This all combines to make this title feel of a "Santa Claus" game. Without the E. [off-mic] This joke only works #106 - Around the World in 80 Days (2004) With a mix of physical and spoken comedy that 80 Days is a fun, albeit mindless watch - perfect the spectacle of Jackie Chan's martial arts Plenty of action-packed fight sequences, the a handily segmented format all sound like right? Wrong. While it stays true to the plot of the movie, throughout the trip, this globe-trotting tie-in As in the film, the content relies on outdated of black-clad ninjas, and a carriage-hopping, The controls were criticised for their unreliability, for its unchanging soundtrack. Enemies have little to distinguish them, with of what weapon they wield. Gameplay is repetitive, and with no combos is a legitimate tactic. Especially considering the hard work and finesse and the cleverly choreographed escape sequences, of an entertaining adaptation, it's just they didn't even use Arnie's likeness. Around the World in 80 Days? No thanks, I think I'll stay home and play #105 - Walt Disney's Snow White and the Seven Game Boy Color Released to capitalise on the movie coming Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs got. Yes, we know about the cancelled Atari tie-in part of that sentence is the word "cancelled". We can't judge an incomplete game, after Aimed at a young audience that wouldn't mind Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs for being a snooze-fest, and not the sort Consisting of simple minigames and short walking in their sleep, even on the harder difficulty, The most intense part of the game is the level bats as she winds through a dark forest maze, But whether catching plates as the dwarfs' in the mine as one of the descriptively named throughout the levels, even if its atmosphere However, the classic appeal of hand-drawn warmth of the movie lost thanks to the graphical We can't necessarily be mad at the game lack of "heigh-hos". #104 - Wreck-It Ralph (2012) We come now to a video game of a movie about Oh boy. We already know how movies based on games is a surprisingly decent film, this game makes them. Set after the events of the movie, Wreck-It built between Ralph and Felix during the film once again. It's time for teamwork, but instead of co-op, the other waits in the UI like a personified Any sense of cooperation is lost as the heroes all - the reason for swapping feels contrived Why can't Ralph crouch? We saw in the film he can sit and slouch so, for him to duck through a low doorway? And why Fix-It Felix can't climb ladders, a handyman, is beyond us. One of the movie's celebrated points was and while some of the fictional games from a disappointing lack of nods to real ones. These small pieces of fan service could have and recognition to this otherwise blandly #103 - Frozen: Olaf's Quest (2013) Considering just how successful 2013's Frozen of video game tie-ins. Platformers that make use of Elsa's powers test Kristoff's sled-handling skills, or ...something... with the trolls - come on, into things - use them! But other than typical mobile games that are is all we've got. The game plonks players into the icy shoes Snowman, and if you're a small child, then There are no enemies and it's impossible lack of peril, simple controls, and sedate On the other hand, anyone over the age of probably be bored stiff. While the snow-covered levels could fit into its corresponding optimistic ditty, is a breath Though, with that said, it doesn't make feels like less of an issue when you're Naturally, the song will be stuck in your you can just smile, and think about what happens [off-mic] They just become happy snowmen, #102 - Beauty and the Beast: Roar of the Beast Mega Drive Released in the same year as another "Beauty shortly, Beauty and the Beast: Roar of the of view of Gaston. Just joking, obviously, it centred on the Whilst controlling said hairy protagonist is tasked with defending the enchanted rose wildlife, and the castle from invading wildli- With his brute strength, wicked claws, and for the boys the game was marketed at - except His attacks feel lacklustre, hit detection the combat is frustrating, and even the boss Dying repeatedly to bosses and chaff may be The title was criticised for its unintended was, especially for younger players. Short mini-games periodically interrupt the a different game; and a screen stating "Well upon completion of a level feels hollow as beginning again soon enough. At least the final confrontation with Gaston rain on the castle's rooftops against the It's just a shame that most players didn't Well done, game. #101 - Monsters, Inc. Scream Arena (2002) Oh yeah, here we go, sports time! Does it count as a sport if you're a monster Yes, in our opinion, it does, but if this uh, weirder places, I'll be having words with Picking up directly after events of the first Scream Arena is based in a facility dedicated After all, what's funnier than seeing others In the opinion of our writer, who, as an eleven-year-old, literally anything. But she didn't make this game, and dodge-ball apparently. Players race against time to hit all the targets, even pelt chickens at opponents as they play in the film. There's little here to keep your attention, variety among the arenas, its poor controls, The multiplayer mode can be an acceptable is just about the most generous adjective it. You'd probably get longer lasting fun from ...just make sure the balls are soft if you We wouldn't want any accidents. #100 - Beauty and the Beast: Belle's Quest Mega Drive With only one entry separating her from her as the Beast did its counterpart. Where Roar of the Beast was action-packed noticeably lacks combat, and was ostensibly Because we all know girls don't like fighting, forests ...hang on, I'm getting Snow White The minigames feel appropriate and part of sake of it; utensil dodging in the kitchen Guest", and stocking shelves similarly brings the beginning of the film. While the Beast was too busy fighting to do talk to the townsfolk, which gives the player to progress. Levels that require directional acuity prove easily results in frustration when enemies appear simultaneously. We can't help but feel like this and Roar games. Where Belle's was passive and lacked oomph, Together, they could have formed a more rounded to the gendered stereotypes of the time proved #99 - Tron: Maze-A-Tron (1982) A movie about being transported inside a computer and this entry marks the first - and worst Players take control of Flynn while he's trapped This takes the form of a side-scrolling maze of managing energy levels, trying not to move red gates - that take a life and return With only three lives, the wandering door By the time players reach the boss it's a they read the instructions in the first place. Oh, who are we kidding? No-one would have gotten that far if they It wasn't unusual to need the manual in the title seems easy at a glance, the twenty That's twice as long as manuals that came same year, and resulted in Tron: Maze-A-Tron As one critical review noted, the challenge the instructions." This is one rulebook you definitely don't of the game at the same time. In which case, be our guest. Wait, that joke probably should have been Oh well. #98 - Disney's Dinosaur (2000) PC If I told you about a game with "dinosaur" Dinosaur, you probably wouldn't immediately chunk of time playing as a primate. That's what players got with Disney's is apparently due to the fact that the titular That makes the choice less odd, but still As in the film, players take the dinosaur, to find a new home. Just how many tiny primates are along for you're playing, with up to three on the Game The PlayStation version has fewer playable of them feeling forced and unwieldy. When teamwork is required, these characters just swapping out, which emphasises the themes integral to the movie's emotional heart. Sadly, Disney's Dinosaur's strengths are thanks, in part, to unresponsive controls to make the experience a real slog. All the heart in the world can't fix frustrating home won't stop that meteor. Although a mediocre game is arguably less Only just, though. #97 - Disney's Herbie: Fully Loaded (2005) Herbie, a sentient Volkswagen Beetle who has loaded in this tie-in to the 2005 movie. We're not quite sure what he's loaded with, in the game, but, with this being a racing expect? More than this. Definitely more than this. Stills from the movie pop up between rounds inspired by the film, in which he has one Fortunately - or unfortunately, depending to have an element of challenge - it's not Collect the power-ups to performtricks and will carry him the rest of the way owing to The main issue with the game was that the threat, and were criticised for their lack Additionally, with only 8 similar tracks, short or repetitive. There was also no variation in gameplay - the not like there was nothing from which to draw have added a little variety and a lot of fun. In short, Disney's Herbie: Fully Loaded leaves expressions in the corner of the screen. He's smiling! I think. #96 - Ratatouille: Food Frenzy (2007) Given how well cooking can translate to games, tasty titles. While a fair game was cooked up for a tie-in, We'll get to the better one later in the list. Ratatouille: Food Frenzy picks up directly out over Parisian rooftops that closes the It's not quite as picturesque but the intent the movie's credits, but with tweaks to complexity appealing to a young audience. The game provides a set menu of seven minigames, knife for both raw meat and veg: Food Frenzy released just a handful of months prior. Fans could have been disappointed that there get together with a friend and play spot the Most ended up in the former camp, and rightfully To make matters worse the games aren't even A constantly draining completion bar takes that requires more concentration than it's Furthermore, the touch input requires such progress of adults, let alone inaccurate children, Ratatouille? More like rat-patootie. Gottem. #95 - Ariel the Little Mermaid (1992) When you think about The Little Mermaid, visions probably come to mind. This game has none of those things, so we're Ariel the Little Mermaid takes inspiration tasks the player with saving either Ariel Follow a map to traverse the levels and collect wiggly things as you go. Simple, right? ...Yes, actually, which was one of the main highest difficulty, critics and players alike There's a choice to play as either the little whether players want to sing at enemies or make a difference other than visually. Attacks don't reliably go in the direction is hard to manoeuvre, with a large turning fiddly bits of architecture or around the The game was too boring for adults, but the homing attacks and others that respawn, make who could have otherwise enjoyed it. Without a clear audience, this game is best whatsits and thingamabobs. Maybe she could use the cartridge as a coaster. #94 - Big Hero 6: Battle in the Bay (2014) We know what you're thinking - "But Ben! The Big Hero 6 comics are Marvel, so isn't Well spotted, but no. The film was not made by Marvel Studios, but and received Disney - not Marvel - branding. Now that we've addressed the elephant in the streets. Set after the movie, Big Hero 6: Battle in protecting the fictional city of San Fransokyo Gone are the small but vicious machines that and in their place are larger, less effective An appearance from the fights' ringleader to be both bigger, and better than before; to the gameplay. Only four of the six heroes are playable, activated from the UI. Bad luck if your favourite's now just a button. Bad luck if you have a favourite at all, really equally powerful, the player is given no choice to specific levels. As the last ever game released for the DS, fighting - but this game wouldn't even last bot. #93 - Oliver &amp; Company (1989) For those unfamiliar with Oliver &amp; Company, original work. Just replace the boy with a kitten, the street-wise Fagin ...with a homeless criminal named Fagin. It's fine, he can grow plenty of hair on counterpart. The game follows the plot of the film, with Oliver, to collect discarded hot dogs on the thrown by disembodied hands - never mind knock life. Wait, that's the wrong orphan. The main complaints levelled at the title of the atmosphere of the film was lost. With no music beyond the title screen, the Lewis, Billy Joel, and Bette Midler that brought absent. The mean city streets don't feel as threatening items against a cheerfully yellow background, trying to wreck Oliver's happy adoption becomes various acts of vandalism in Oliver's new Oliver &amp; Company ultimately felt unsophisticated the cat, we'll pass on second helpings of #92 - Return to Oz (1986) The movie Return to Oz is an eerie, dark fantasy get if you filtered The Wizard of Oz through of creepy 80s claymation, and served it in and disturb in equal measure. Neil Gaiman reviewed it as "one of the very whilst we don't know if he's played the tie-in of praise for the title as he was for its Return to Oz looks less terrifying than the but it follows the plot faithfully. While criticised for its comparative lack tone and doesn't gloss over the less child-friendly The gameplay and controls are extremely simple, with the film. Even when limited to the actions at the bottom if you don't know the movie well - unless error when speaking to characters, collecting Most people would probably give up before room. I know I would, but I don't need a pair console's power button will suffice. Problem solved. #91 - Tron: Solar Sailer (1982) Given that this game is also set during the Solar Sailer - yes, that is the intended last Tron game on this list; to navigate the The player pilots the Solar Sailer; a fast data. Players glide through zones of the computer off course when switching tracks to top up Reach the second phase, and an 8-digit binary The code is only given once though, so you'll your short-term memory is up to snuff. This is the main problem with Solar Sailer; in confusion. The game uses the Intellivoice module - an enables voice synthesis - to relay important A distinctly robotic voice gives out codes level and sector location, and tells you when It must have felt quite futuristic at the the Intellivoice, it certainly would have module, so it had very few people to stand Maybe that was for the best. #90 - Beauty and the Beast (1994) This game feels like someone looked at Roar upon it. And they did! ...but not by much. Rather than defending his castle against invading it, swatting spiders and crawling up curtains usual murdering wolves in the snow. The platforming is somewhat interesting, and the dreary dungeon decor seen in the other Beauty and the Beast features several unexplained move, that can leave a player stuck for hours because the game hasn't taken the time to do. Why would roaring at a platform make it move? I know the castle's enchanted, but I don't the Beast got shouty in the movie! Following the pattern set by the movie's other upon beating a level, but instead of feeling appropriate coming from the motherly Mrs Potts. Okay, so it still feels patronising, but in Just smile and nod; she'll be asleep in the Mrs Potts, I mean - but if your mum wants #89 - Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend PS2, PC Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the pirate genre, and as the most captivating scallywag, it's little wonder that Jack Set two days after the movie concludes, this things in his own way. His unique perspective on events and characteristic where he actually wasn't, and bringing others to fend off the cursed crew of the Black Pearl her by his side. Destructible parts of the environment give beating them to a pulp, occasional minigames out of the action, and a friend can drop in No friend? No problem! The AI controlled character can stand around and block your path, just like a real friend While players and critics were divided in of the movie and led to the game having a Johnny Depp's reprisal of the swaggering seafarer it would have gone without him, as despite Sparrow saw hefty criticism for its many flaws. Sorry Jack, not even sea turtles can save Maybe they can. #88 - Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse GBA Another Pirates game so soon? As you can probably guess, this one isn't Despite having the same name as the film, Black Pearl acts as a prequel to it, and follows a passing resemblance to Johnny Depp and the that supplanted him as captain of the titular Beginning in true pirate fashion with a walk escape from being marooned on a small island But these aren't his famous escapades; instead, for nondescript NPCs and unremarkable treasure The game's difficulty - or rather, the lack feel trivial, with even late-game enemies Confusingly, the game ends with Jack returning slaying Barbossa. Maybe we can chalk this up to Jack's fanciful for him to completely fabricate something Who needs accuracy when you have infamy, eh? #87 - Basil the Great Mouse Detective (1987) CPC Styled after the fictional detective, Sherlock Street home and penchant for solving mysteries The premise of the game is that Basil's Ratigan - has kidnapped Basil's own Watson, In keeping with the Holmesian inspiration, the movie to create a new, thematically appropriate rather than follow its plot directly. Simple platforming and enemy avoidance form clues about Dr Dawson's whereabouts and bit. This isn't just a quirk of the mouse; bumping which a snack of cheese restores. Despite playing as the titular detective, solving mysteries. While the maze of rooms may require a bit consists of reading how many are correct in required from the player. The title drew criticism for its lacklustre one of the game's key mechanics impractical: goons, but players often failed to place them which resulted in wasted traps and frustrated The only real puzzle here comes in trying Basil would be so disappointed. #86 - Monsters, Inc. (2001) This entry sees us return to the Monsters, rather than ballgames. Of the three versions of the game that were the plot of the film most faithfully. A normal working day avoiding toys and scaring as Mike, takes a sharp turn when toddler, Safely return Boo to the Scare Factory, go battle Randall - complete with the hanging If an extra dimension is preferred, the PS2 but was heavily criticised for its uncooperative The release for the GBA offers something slightly plot. Randall has shredded Boo's door and scattered player's job, as Sulley, to collect and reassemble A jigsaw minigame to do so is thematic and and the game doesn't end after defeating Randall in his place. Despite an admirable adherence to the events to be little more than a selection of mediocre lack of complexity, repetitive gameplay, and #85 - Disney Planes: Fire &amp; Rescue (2014) We come now to a game based on a not great Pixar's least good franchises. Off to a good start already. The story focuses on Dusty the plane, famous career path as a firefighter after an incident The game begins with Dusty's training but He didn't earn his certification in the movie - firefighting requires serious commitment, That said, these missions are optional - but as while the main missions are longer and Surprisingly, this wasn't really criticised. Most reviewers saw no issue with the title's and the gameplay was deemed so boring that anyway. Search and rescue is less exciting when it over unchanging landscapes, looking for something Occasionally players take a ride in another which brought a little variety; while Dusty helicopter to pick up stranded deer. Yes, that's a tractor. No, it's not explained why the tractors are If players weren't familiar with the film, seen them scouring the landscape for Bambi Deere puns. #84 - Sorcerer's Apprentice (1983) Often hailed as one of the best animated films mushrooms, ballerina hippopotami, and Mickey Apprentice. As much a celebration of classical music as and famous compositions combined to create It's Mickey's fraught encounter with enchanted you could probably guess from the title. Beginning during Mickey's dream of conducting stars and shoot comets. Each star caught translates to a bucket to comet left flying becomes a broom to work Fail badly and there's just too much water, save the Sorcerer's abode when you get to brooms as they march down the stairs. Considering that the Sorcerer saves Mickey game than it is to win - but that knowledge While the graphics and use of a few notes the game was slammed for being repetitive, attention. Mickey went to sleep instead of dealing with well; we couldn't blame him if he chose a #83 - Atlantis the Lost Empire: Trial by Fire PC Atlantis: The Lost Empire was Disney's first as expected when released, and lost out on Raider - which probably says everything Atlantis the Lost Empire: Trial by Fire is before the movie, and sees players attempting at the beginning of the film. This part of the game was distributed as a the title Atlantis the Lost Empire: Search places, including Kellogg's cereal and select The rest of the game follows the plot of the ship by a mechanical leviathan - which isn't spawn from an escape pod - to the threat While the premise sounded promising with puzzles by enemies, a shooter was thought an odd choice The title saw criticism for the lack of cohesion explained in screens of text between them. The graphics were sub-par, the controls awkward, sense of atmosphere or immersion. As Atlantis is famously underwater, that last #82 - Fantasia (1991) In 1991, Fantasia: The Movie was completely to home video for the first time, introducing After the successful release, and the popularity the year before, gamers and families alike They got it - but only for 100 daysas the While there is speculation about the reason an incorrectly granted licence to Roy Disney, his uncle didn't want any adaptations of was removed from sale, and only an estimated The game is set within the dreams of the sorcerer's Beginning with a jaunt through his master's levels inspired by the film. Make it to the end to be rewarded with the complete with dancing imps and spooky faces dancing. The game looked fantastic, with gorgeous graphics and the music was a recognisable translation Gameplay obviously took its lead from Castle action platformer - except where that game Development was rushed to get the game on before it was ready, which resulted in unpolished upset among those who managed to score a copy. #81 - The Jungle Book Groove Party (2000) The Jungle Book Groove Party - or The Jungle American about this - is a musical rhythm on their dance mat, and features iconic tracks Wan'na Be Like You". Despite being a collection of tunes, the game well and the new songs made specifically for dancing introduction to the girl from the of place in the film. The quantity of new tunes was criticised, than alongside - all but two of the movie's like Madness than The Beatles. The with an attention span longer than a young and an extra unlockable cover version of "I total up to a pitiful ten. While the "crazy" difficulty unlocked to pose a challenge to Dance Dance Revolution for younger children who just want to sing Make sure they haven't got any socks on not King of the A&amp;E Department. #80 - The Wild (2006) As a side-scrolling platformer based on the tale of a group of animals from the Central Stills from the movie provide context between of a young lion after his accidental escape. Levels are separated between ones designed others for Benny the friendly squirrel. This enabled the game to feature different climbing and swinging for Benny, and combat Benny's hardly helpless though, as he's proficient in the ground like a normal squirrel wouldn't The levels are themed around locations from in both New York and Africa. Boss battles represent pivotal moments such final showdown against the wildebeests' leader Despite suffering from unresponsive controls levelled at The Wild was that story mode could Instead, the completed levels had to be replayed achieved within a time limit before the next This artificially extended length brought there - and made what was there feel worse. Like regurgitating your starter so you can Lovely. #79 - The Lion King: Simba's Mighty Adventure PlayStation, Game Boy Color We move now from the lions of New York to as a biography of its titular big cat. The Lion King: Simba's Mighty Adventure follows and its direct-to-video sequel, with more film. Recognisable events are depicted through the from Simba's flight from the tensestampede his own cub once he rules from Pride Rock. Stills from the movies form the loading screens, from the films between levels. The two versions of the game play similarly, version is more nuanced - such as during That said, it's not hard to be more complex Timon and Pumbaa provide short diversions players to do things like catch bugs or sit warthog is as terrible as the duo's ditty kinder just to hit said meerkat with a mallet While deemed suitable for the kids that were was criticised for its "cookie-cutter" the fact that it had little to offer past and inexperienced. But, hey, Hakuna Matata, right? #78 - Adventures of Tron (1982) We're back inside the computer for another Tron rather than Flynn this time. Adventures of Tron - or Adventures On GX-12in Atari version of Maze-A-Tron but ended up release. Lacking the worrying complexity of its supposed memorised 6 pages long - thank Tron for Laid out as a set of four floors with elevators floating bits - that's not us being flippant, avoiding tanks, recognizers, and bugs that path, and in the case of the tanks, attack Collect all the floating bits, and the game of the screen so a points bonus is added to difficulty. While the title had no glaring faults, reviews The accuracy required to avoid enemies was limit of four lives; but the main criticism levels were easy, it became too difficult When faced with more numerous and faster moving rather than enjoyable. #77 - Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's PS2, PSP, Xbox 360, Wii, DS, PC As Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest one for At World's End seems peculiar at first While named after the third movie, the game do otherwise would have thrust players into The expected cast of Jack, Will, and Elizabeth, through relevant parts of the story. There's none of Jack's embellished tales to so players follow the plot to reconvene the Davy Jones. The levels, set in expanded locations from break up the hack-and-slash gameplay, and sets them apart from the - often literally While the combat in general was found wanting, a fancy name with drunken flair - were criticised for the variation in swordplay ...until players few moves over and over and got bored. At World's End looked great, and the voice cast was fantastic; but that wasn't enough Perhaps Davy Jones will come for this game, #76 - Finding Nemo (2003) I think it's safe to say that not many child-friendly but Finding Nemo is one that is. Since it was the highest-grossing computer the crown from the clownfish 10 years later, to live up to its movie counterpart. This tie-in is primarily an action-adventure scenes from the movie between the levels to The problem of a blocked path can be solved Nemo, Marlin gets to chase Dory through coloured true minigames of sliding puzzles and memory In hindsight, she probably wasn't the best Critics generally applauded the effort of that wasn't overly simplistic or boring for for the PC version, which was a simple point-and-click counterparts. Unfortunately, the title suffered from a lack with framerate issues and long load times. A wait that was commonly over 3 minutes on player, actively disengaging the small children As such, those poor kiddos were left treading swimming. #75 - A Bug's Life (1998) Based on the film of the same name that was the tie-in to A Bug's Life is an action platformer plot of the movie. Key elements of the plot, along with the player's stills from the film, with the PlayStation Levels have the player collecting seeds and Flik through locations and events that moviegoers Puzzle-solving skills are required in some plantseeds that grow into sturdy shoots and Some of the environments are unimpressive of a ghost town than major metropolis, and of its movie counterpart - whilst others The giant raindrops and urgent music give of weight and urgency, and Hopper is defeated robbing the player of their sense of victory. While the game was praised for its appearance sluggish controls coupled with framerate issues, overshadowed the game's positives in reviews. The Game Boy Color edition lacked the puzzle-solving so most critics considered it a lesser offering. #74 - The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian PS2, PS3, Xbox 360, Wii, DS, PC As the lesser-known sequel to The Lion, the Narnia: Prince Caspian is set either one or where you're from. The game portrays the events leading up to for aid from royalty of the past - better the prior wardrobe-based shenanigans. Different characters and fantastical creatures party members can be swapped between at any Smash around and ride giants as a minotaur, down enemies with debonair flair as Prince sometimes, it's not completely avoidable. Critics celebrated the spectacle of the large-scalebattles framerate or responsiveness, and that many the game saw more criticism than praise. Simplistic gameplay, a slow-paced narrative, puzzles raised the most ire. The DS version sat apart from the others due combat, rather than following the action-adventure Prince Caspian was the last game developed and the connection is evident in the gameplay better if it had been a Lego game, instead. #73 - Enchanted (2007) Whilst being transported into a Disney movie happens in Enchanted. Stereotypical princess-to-be, Giselle, is things along the way - marrying a man you've the concept of dating. The tie-in game follows the plot of the film of Andalasia, and New York. The three playable characters have significantly Giselle is paired with exploration and collection and turn-based boss fights, and platforming minigames. While the title was praised for its age-appropriate minigames were criticised as awkward and tedious Yes, you heard right, the chipmunk had boss Additionally, the lack of choice about which because of how vastly different they were. If a player loved the sedate exploration but or family member to get them to the next section. You could say that this encouraged cooperation, could have easily been solved by a level select instead of inspiring camaraderie, the title #72 - Cinderella: Magical Dreams (2005) Inspired by Charles Perrault'sfairy tale, is one of Disney's classics, and boosted the Cinderella shows the titular woman's rise and Cinderella: Magical Dreams was produced With clips interspersed between levels, players parts of the film. Whether that's simple platforming as Cinderella on chickens or newborn lambs, or scaling a the levels are thematic and fit well with Boss fights with Lucifer see the mice peltingbuttons has the player transforming the mundane into not to the tune of Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo. The title's adherence to the plot of the movie expectations, and the gameplay was deemed It was, however, criticised for its short to bore its intended audience. Cinderella's chores were repetitive, well, Even her race home after the ball was more scrolling screen, and the spooky forest failed By the way, if anyone at home has been drinking I suggest you stop now. We don't want to be responsible for anyone #71 - High School Musical 3: Senior Year Dance! (2008) While the first two High School Musical films an increased budget and theatrical release It was praised by audiences and critics alike weekend for a musical film up to that point. As with most games in this genre, High School places the focus on the songs rather than environment. Players have the chance to dance through the which character to control. There's even the option to create their own you can't play as an actual cat. Gameplay consists of stamping on a dance mat or swinging your arms around if you prefer The PC version let players' fingers do all that only Thing from the Addams Family would saw players circling the stylus around a face Senior Year Dance! was praised for the accurate representation that both made sense and worked; but the game which eclipsed the positives as it left players Maybe if the game had let players be a cat, interesting. #70 - Tron: Evolution (2010) In a step away from the previous titles on 2010 sequel rather than the original Tron Acting as a prequel, this game sets the stage the characters of CluandQuorra. Players take control of the security program, dread to think what expletive-ridden tirades His purpose: to investigate infighting within along the way through fast-paced acrobatic Levels feature plenty of parkour, vehicular time blasting recognizers from a tank. The online multiplayer mode offers PVP classics with the ability to connect with up to 9 other The PSP, DS, and Wii versions - the latter collections of minigames similar in theme on multiplayer and co-op. Tron: Evolution was praised for its movie-accurate for the fact that the multiplayer was actually the other players. As for its downsides, the game saw criticism length of the single-player story, and that available through purchased DLC. At least it wasn't all of them I suppose, #69 - Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's PSP, GBA, DS The movie of Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead but it did have this game for handhelds. In Dead Man's Chest players control - you and smashing action that follows the plot The usual trio is rounded out with Will and opportunity, as said heroine, to skip the piratical swath through Port Royal in her She doesn't even get it dirty - maybe she our laundry bills. While the PSP and DS versions are third-person the GBA sails in a slightly different direction nautical exploration and ship-to-ship combat The PSP offers naval warfare in a PVP mode, Dead Man's Chest was praised for its runtime moderately fun. The combat, however, negatively impacted the mashing on the DS, was too easy on the GBA, Jack unavoidably open to attack when faced As the title was primarily a beat-em-up, these fight, how good of a pirate are they really? #68 - Bolt (2008) The titular Bolt is a crime fighting, super-powered thinks he is. The movie centres around his discovery that that they were instead all special effects The tie-in game takes the idea of said TV taking place inside the televised universe Bolt meets in the movie - binge watches The game is, essentially, the show; players his owner Penny, complete with her wheely-bar-thing, from the moustache-twirlingly evil, Dr. Calisto. While Bolt zips between enemies in stages the odd enemy but mostly wields her wheel-bar Hacking minigames break up the main levels in the form of a bit of multidirectional shooting, the intrusion. The use of the TV show to create a game of the plot of the film was praised by critics, difficulty for its target audience. However, both reviewers and players found Bolt's combat repetitive and tedious - minor was a slug-fest that dragged on well past #67 - Disney Planes (2013) We've already covered one game featuring the based on the original Planes movie rather With four different modes of play, Disney the plot of the film. Story mode, however, does just that, with and various other aircraft through the movie's "BalloonMode" unsurprisingly features players flying their aircraft of choice through Despite there being multiple opponents, the and the handheld has no multiplayer at all. "Free Flight" lets the player enjoy just whilst grabbing the occasional collectable, mode. This is made up of shooting targets, performing an aeroplane that doesn't fit into race mode. Before you ask, no, joining the mile-high-club one from a dark corner of steam. Overall, Disney Planes was received better it. Responsive controls meant that the planes appreciated; but the title was considered to non-existent multiplayer despite featuring a perfect fit. #66 - Tarzan: Freeride (2001) Everyone's secondfavourite ape-raised vine-swinger, 1999 animated movie that bears his his name. Tarzan: Freeride - or Tarzan: Untamed if set after the events of the film and acts British explorers threaten the jungle once by taking part in extreme sports. He lets some baby gorillas out of cages too, Tarzan's athletic capabilities. Run and climb, swing and slide, surf, water wrestling the occasional boss in button-mashing While the challenge mode has additional goals time or gaining a specified number of points fact that everything has been recycled from Tarzan: Freeride was praised for its graphics behaved; it was also deemed suitable for children Tarzan's frequent deaths. The game had few checkpoints - and the action mistakes at the end of a lengthy, but otherwise it with building frustration. It was also criticised for being short - something Peter/Me on the other hand... #65 - Disney's Treasure Planet (2002) Robert Louis Stevenson's swashbuckling adventure, twist in Treasure Planet, however, despite critical reception, the movie was a complete Disney an estimated 70 million dollars. With a focus on platforming and puzzle solving plenty of the latter - Disney's Treasure Jim Hawkins on his hunt for treasure. While most of the game takes place on foot, on Jim's solar surfer. Not to be confused with Tron's Solar Sailer, the water. Jim's shape-shifting pet Morph - no, not happy pink blob until it's needed. Whether that's by grabbing collectables on or working as a controllable camera to scope to help. The boss fights on the PlayStation were more challenges on the solar surfer were actually to complete. All three versions of Disney's Treasure Planet and unforgiving platforming, to puzzles that While it wouldn't bag a place among Flint's consolation prize - but we'd still prefer #64 - Finding Nemo: The Continuing Adventures GBA We're back Down Under for our dinn - erm, While the movie's finale saw Nemo reunited - and some questions - into the ocean Picking up where the movie left off, Finding happened to said escapees in the form of minigames Players pilot each of the Tank Gang on their to the sea, avoiding cars and grabbing collectables aquatic hamster balls. Other characters appear once they've reached Bruce can Smash boulders to clear a path, pop them - with an enraptured Bubbles looking Another version of the game by the same developer, with more minigames and a new subtitle, but there wasn't much to differentiate them. While the presentation of the game and variety The Continuing Adventures suffered from an younger players, bored older ones, and left It also didn't answer who got them out of it's not for his knot untying skills. #63 - Disney's Stitch: Experiment 626 (2002) A chaotic alien turned household pet won over Stitch. Released just two days before the film arrived explores what that alien was up to prior to Stitch - the titular Experiment 626 - must experiments from several alien worlds. This involves a mix of platforming and shooting, collectables and achieve objectives whilst pits. I say apparent, because the real goal seems as possible. Stitch wields an energy gun more than suited - including the occasional enemy when they gun and jet pack in his arsenal, they're better The absolute chaos that Stitch embodied, complete translated into the game well, which was partly who also provided Stitch's voice in the The title was, however, criticised for its lack of enemies, and clipping errors that in corners, and resulted in frequent, unnecessary We hope that experiment 627 was more successful. #62 - Up (2009) While a story about a stubborn old widower backstory, a little boy, a talking dog, and quite literally. Set after his house has arrived in South America, stowaway, Russell, explore their new locale of the film. While they have some overlapping abilities are functionally the same - swapping between This has the player fending off enemies with as Russell, and solving puzzles with both for their passage to Paradise Falls. The title was praised for the return of the and the ease of the drop-in local co-op present clunky controls, awkward camera angles, and While players enjoyed the title regardless about the AI of the non-player character when Set to dutifully follow the player, this worked problems when solving puzzles. Thanks to the co-op, if players had a spare you've ever attempted to play two characters sounds. #61 - The Incredibles: When Danger Calls (2004) Back when Spider-Man was Toby Maguire and not as prolific as they are today. A movie based on a superhero family was, therefore, enjoyed a great amount of success. The Incredibles: When Danger Calls is a collection the plot of the film. The game begins with everyday activities like arm as busy mum, Helen, and lifting trains Each family member has their own minigame Jack-Jack - before coming together for the consists of pressing the correct arrow key The title was suitably easy for a young demographic, at the beginning of each level, and a short for the children the game was aimed at. It saw criticism, however, for the same things game was too easy and therefore boring, and Why they would want more of a game they were they all agreed on the same closing joke: they were the Mediocres. Yeah, we groaned too. #60 - The Incredibles: Rise of the Underminer PS2, Xbox, GameCube, GBA, DS, PC Continuing our look at the adventures of the Underminer was considered a canon sequel to thirteen years later. The game starts where the movie finished - with a declaration of superiority and his intent While the whole clan is there for this announcement, and family friend, Frozone, in their attempt Mr. Incredible is a strong brawler, and Frozoneexcels makes both useful, and gives purpose to playing Otherwise, the AI does its best, and follows help. The game throws plenty of enemies at the duo, more than just button mashing to complete. The Incredibles: Rise of the Underminer had ice effects, and the two characters' abilities dialogue, lack of variety in enemies, and Limited lives caused frustration on the handheld corners and through walls on the DS. Ultimately, the title was thought appropriate and wanted to know what happened next - but once that curiosity was sated. #59 - Ratatouille (2007) GBA, DS, PC We said we'd be back to the gastronomic powerhouse here we are. Where much of the movie follows Linguini, its tie-in focuses on Remy, the culinary expert The title centres around Remy's move to the with a couple of exceptions: The PSP version an overarching goal to find recipes for Linguini emphasis on collecting ingredients and problem Platforming makes up most of the gameplay objectives to complete in various locations things up a bit. Minigames nest between the levels on the DS, capabilities and confine them to a mode separate The console versions of the game were praised controls, and the handhelds for fluid animation failed to impress. The then-current gen version saw criticism for blurry textures, and the gameplay on the and unchallenging. Still, while this title earned no Michelin health code violations like the previous Ratatouille #58 - Disney's Beauty and the Beast: A Board Game Boy Color Neatly avoiding the issues of setup time and Disney's Beauty and the Beast: A Board Game the game and has no need for fiddly counters the cellophane. Beginning with Gaston's rousingspeech to the the Beast before Gaston to warn him of the Each square represents a minigame, and where they'll face; the wardrobe leads to a tile a game of swapping cups, and landing on Belle's chance to fulfil their fantasies and control Performing well awards the player with stars, enough - spitting as Gaston! I said spitting as not spitting at, so don't either. A Board Game Adventure was described by reviewers complimented and damned in equal measure. The minigames themselves saw praise in isolation, boards and additional minigames; but the small tedious, and the linear format of the boards ladders was exciting in comparison. Actually, a few snakes might have livened #57 - Alice in Wonderland (2000) Unlike the White Rabbit, Alice in Wonderland: as it came out one year before the movie's instead alongside the film's DVD release. Following the plot of the movie, the title story between levels and portray Alice's Players take control of the eponymous girl, at some point during the game. The Cheshire Cat gives a rhyming guide before to fetch biscuits for the dormouse, and croquet affair. The gameplay is wonderfully diverse, offering by platforming once Alice lands, races against navigation to ease the workload of the playing Critics praised the variety the game offered, change in size that added interest and thought However, some of the stages were considered mechanics that frustrated the less patient, It just goes to show you can't please everyone of Hearts, in which case, you'd better please Thankfully, no devs or reviewers lost their #56 - Disney's Pocahontas (1996) Based on the establishment of Jamestown, Virginia, the Native Americans and English settlers While the film was an important milestone people as more than a caricature, it saw its cultural inaccuracy and reliance on stereotypes. The game is not free of these flaws as it Players control Pocahontas and her raccoon that require swapping between them to solve connection with the land and life within it. Helping animals grants her abilities; whether bear allowing access to her spirit to frighten worth paying attention to the wildlife rather The title was praised for its animation and from the film, as well as the relaxed pace That said, its controls were unresponsive, that Pocahontas needed to manipulate for the saw criticism for its plain backgrounds - despite Additionally, the Game Boy version was stripped of the atmosphere and charm in the process. #55 - Meet the Robinsons (2007) Inspired by the picture book, A Day with Wilbur the Robinsons tells the tale of a pre-teen time travelling boy named Wilbur Robinson. Set immediately before the film, its tie-in through time travelling escapades to recover Guy and Doris, his hat - no, really. There's plenty of hazards to avoid and enemies the timeline in the process, with suitably - except Doris, who, even when enlarged a hat. The version for the GBA is significantly different the movie - plus, it's the only one that While the music was thought bland when compared reviewers considered the gameplay similar series, this tie-in wasn't bad. Most of the praise was directed towards the matching that of the movie, which was helped family reprising their roles - including Sadly, this uncle doesn't dance the Batusi, outfit. #54 - Chicken Little (2005) How could an old folktale about a chicken upon? If your answer was "with aliens" you've should be working for Disney. Following the plot of the movie, players guide levels to prove that he shouldn't be a laughing save his town from them. As Chicken Little is notorious among the townsfolk as the gameplay's focus seems a hazardous it's in character. Flavourful minigames break up the platforming Chicken Little's fateful baseball game reliant utilising the players' racing skills, and their aim. The handheld version similarly featured different kept them in separate modes. This tie-in to Chicken Little was criticised and that the sheer variety of gameplay meant minigames than a singular story-driven campaign. Other critics praised this variety, and found and challenge the player in different ways. Although this meant it was unsuitable for and gave the title a broad appeal. #53 - Pinocchio (1996) Pinocchio: The Game came out several years for its 1992 cinema re-issue, and surprisingly release. It relied instead on the established fame novel, and rode on the coattails of other, of consoles that we'll come to shortly. Taking the form of a puzzle platformer, with levels on the pages of a picture book, the inspired by the film. While Jiminy Cricket only puts in an appearance star with his Simon-says performance at Stromboli's Island, and a jumping and ducking raft ride jaws. Pinoccho was, in general, criticised for its It was, however, an appropriate difficulty in terms of its content and level of violence kiddos to play without fear. Additionally, the graphics, animations, and were praised, as well as the title's faithful While Pinocchio may have had no strings to way up our list - but that's more than a able to achieve. #52 - Monsters, Inc. Scare Island (2001) It's time to say farewell to the big kitty Inc. tie-in game on our list. Monsters, Inc. Scare Island - alternatively subtitled Scream PS2 - sees the duo sent on a training course Their aim: learn to be as funny as possible. Just joking, this is set before the movie, With the option to swap between levels, players areas accessed via the central hub on the Despite featuring different environments, Ooze to fill the player's Fright Meter then colour. Blue robots require the least Ooze and effort, of button pushing and for the Fright Meter While some reviewers criticised its ease, that didn't quite sound like the characters, that led to players muting the game, and distances sections. That said, the concept, level design, and Additionally, the controls worked as intended, items meant that less dextrous players could so ultimately, the title was suitable for #51 - A Christmas Carol (2009) We're sure that we're not the only ones who think of the Muppets, but the adaptation of is the one that stars Jim Carrey, not Michael This yuletide tale of morality plays out as navigated by interacting with items to solve like knocking debris in front of a hearse Medals are won for the player's performance, throughout the game that contribute to a "redemption for completion status. As a festive treat after the title's November unlocked as an advent throughout the following were available immediately for those who accessed The long narration sections were criticised were walls of text that did little to engage Furthermore, the graphics and animation were too short - you'd think the devs would have at Christmas. Quality over quantity does count for something, for an appropriate level of difficulty for for retaining the darker tone of the movie. Minus points for the lack of Muppets though. #50 - The Little Mermaid (1991) Darling it's better down where it's wetter... mind control, in which case dry land might Not to Ariel though, who when told of the and leaves Eric high and dry in an abrupt Players navigate a series of underwater levels replicate - the plot of the film, uncovering to Ariel's attacks as she goes. Mind-controlled enemies litter her path, and or trapping them in bubbles to then smash That's certainly one way to "save" them isn't a more friendly way to go about this. The idea of trapping enemies in bubbles was awkward to pull off, especially when under it a missed opportunity that, had it been mechanics to the gameplay. Overall this tie-in to The Little Mermaid hit with female gamers. The difficulty was suitable for its young than frightening; though no-one mentioned Maybe that's really why Triton turned her our problem, now. #49 - Disney's Brother Bear (2003) The animated movie Brother Bear tells the Kenai, who is changed into a bear due to his life - I mean the balance of nature - and to human form. Disney's Brother Bear is solidly in bear territory, the menu screen. Subtitled stills tell the story and players bear he meets on his travels, through simple While most of the game is spent with Koda them individually and swap between them to collectable they need to unlock the minigames. Despite its extra dimension and visual differences, and features similar gameplay concepts to relegated to following along at his side. The title was criticised for levels that felt deaths, and the PC version for particularly out of the blue. Overall, though, Disney's Brother Bear looked that was easy enough for younger players but a piece of cake - which is good, because #48 - The Sorcerer's Apprentice (2010) This time we're not talking about Mickey's in this tie-in to the movie of the same name. Known for its musical tesla coils and not behind the Fantasia-inspired film that sees Horvath and Morgana le Fay. The simply named protagonist makes his way of the movie's plot, battling enemies in different Spells unlock throughout the game, along with and these exciting visits to the colourful with ...more combat, just with a different Enemies have auras that correspond to Dave's when he has a spell the same colour as the This gives players the chance to mitigate make up for poor dodging skills. While reviewers bemoaned the absence of Cage's the spell system to provide tactical depth, colourful appearance and was fun in short It required enough thought to keep the kiddos on what they knew worked to smite those pesky #47 - The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, PS2, Xbox, GameCube, GBA, DS, PC We're headed back to a Narnia well before the tie-in to the most famous of the films of the books. Featuring all four of the Pevensie children and character swapping supported, The Lion, of the movie where the siblings discover Narnia All characters have their strengths, with combat respectively. Lucy heals the others and fits through small sound impressive but is useful, especially doesn't come with batteries. The GBA edition is a largely simplified version to one character per level. The DS version, however, introduces new features, of the family unit. While the handheld versions were criticised main complaint aimed at the console edition Still, the action and visuals were praised, both individually and when combined, and was Along with the film and book, this game is you can find a suitable wardrobe in your local #46 - Disney's Lilo &amp; Stitch: Trouble in Paradise PlayStation, PC In contrast to the previous Lilo &amp; Stitch Terra Firma and while it doesn't quite follow Trouble in Paradise - or just Disney's Lilo in North America about this - has more basis 626 did. With Stitch already adopted at the beginning Lilo, in their adventures - and misadventures Fairly similar platforming levels with thematic the game; a trip to the beach sees Stitch rings and destroying sand castles rather than more potent than spoons in a jar of pickles. Occasional chase sequences switch things up pursuit of the little blue menace and Lilo's Mertle adding variation to the standard gameplay. This race, however, was criticised for its leeway, so even completing it with no mistakes The game had poor collision detection in places, but Trouble in Paradise appealed to - and play as the young girl and her weird dog. #45 - Tangled: The Video Game (2010) Tangled: The Movie centres around Rapunzel barnet - and her quest to see the floating little bit closer. Tangled: The Video Game puts players in control attempt to achieve this goal, with colouring along the way. Rapunzel can, unsurprisingly, let her hair it to swing herself across gaps - she even minigame. Armed only with her trusty frying pan, however, For that she needs Flynn, and players without the couple at any time. The DS removes the platforming and instead with quests and minigames better suited to console version. Rapunzel's hair, while long and luscious, the minigame challenges were criticised for tore their hair out in frustration. Tangled: The Video Game successfully recreated to the plot, similar visual style, and the the main duo - which created a fun, thematic #44 - The Incredibles (2004) Rated "T" for "Teen" by the ESRB, slightly older audience than the movie, which in most countries. It's unusual to see a tie-in game like this its content, rather than difficult gameplay to the rating. Levels follow the movie's plot, with Bob and and a proficiency in close combat as the focus of the family get in on the action as well. Helen's elastic powers are used to punch enemies Violet's invisibility lets her sneak past gets to race through the jungle with tightly As a cartoony side scrolling beat-em-up, the those for home console and PC - but it still lets players skate through parts of the game While The Incredibles had a camera that acted level of difficulty throughout the game, it atmosphere - in part due to Michael Giacchino's The voice actors for the family's children as he didn't drop any F-bombs, the title's Instead, it's the "cartoon violence" cited about right for this action-packed game. #43 - The Black Cauldron (1986) Based on The Chronicles of Prydain, which dark fantasy movie The Black Cauldron follows to thwart the Horned King's evil plans. With an army of the dead and an overall sinister and was criticised as too grim and disturbing. It bombed at the box office, and didn't get get a video game tie-in. Players guide Taran through the events of outcomes depending on the player's actions It's possible to deliver Hen Wen, the pig to the Fair Folk safely, avoiding her kidnapping magic sword back at the end. Like Return to Oz, the title required knowledge it in the cinema at a distinct disadvantage caused by the player's choices offered an just memory to complete. The graphics, animation, and atmosphere of inclusion of action sequences in addition but without audible text, some of the characters' confused. Why are there so many Fs in FflewddurFflam?! Totally unnecessary. #42 - Chicken Little: Ace in Action (2006) Chicken Little ended with an in-universe movie Chicken Little: Ace in Action is the in-universe while also a tie-in in our reality. It sounds confusing, but ends up being quite his friends playing the game, but their spacefaring rather than the band of school-age misfits. Ace, aka Chicken Little, is an all-action on foot, Runt gets a tank for slow but steady in aerial combat sequences. The team is tied together by Mr. Fish who objectives, instructions, and access to locked difficulty as the game progresses. Abby's hovercraft was awkward to control on entirely from the DS version, and the amount too much for some parents; but with bloodless was generally deemed appropriate for kids. Voice actors from the film returned for the were praised for being suitably hammy without Additionally, Ace's gameplay was compared agreed that the original was superior, Ace imitation, but instead a simple but acceptable #41 - The Emperor's New Groove (2000) It's time to get into the groove with a visit Kuzco. Complete with the cynical sassiness that endeared a series of 3D platforming levels inspired in-game cutscenes that advance the narrative. A fraught trip downriver tied to a log provides platforming, and activities like shooting spit" trains the player for later levels A llama-free zone is accessed mid-game by frog, and traversing areas and solving puzzles gameplay of his less bouncy one. The version for the Game Boy Color presents interlude, with Kuzco limited to llama-suitable a nasty habit, but we'll let it slide while While the camera got confused at times and simplicity, The Emperor's New Groove successfully difficulty curve with puzzles that required and the later levels in particular were praised provided. Well, I think that's all there is to say Pull the lever, Kronk- uh, I mean, me! #40 - Enchanted: Once Upon Andalasia (2007) Our algorithm monkeys had to work hard to in 2007, and therefore being a prime candidate title has a surprisingly small presence on Once Upon Andalasia consists of a bedtime Morgan, the daughter of her New York host. This tale of monstrous transformations and attempt to change the wildlife back to their the kingdom, so everyone can live happily Giselle's inability to fight, and each goblin the enemies encountered throughout the platforming Using traps to knock them out or Pip to distract Giselle can sing at their unconscious form cuteness. Grateful animals teach her songs, and these to tackle enemies as the game progresses, record. Despite the at-times slow pace and the repetitive he popped up occasionally to ride his horse title retained the humour of the film and The classic Disney-style visuals translated provided a solid, albeit simple, platforming that played it. #39 - WALL-E (2008) Set in a disturbingly possible future where rubbish heap and become entirely dependent the importance of hope - and a reminder up if we don't change our environmentally The eponymous WALL-E, a surprisingly relatable than most free-thinkingrobots Hollywood depicts, elements that follow the plot of an earlierversion Simple puzzles are scattered throughout, as cubes of trash or disintegrating them with EVE, on the other hand, has a more explosive her arm-mounted cannon and full firepower (no pun intended) during rapid flying sequences. The then-current gen version suffered a grumpy the previous gen's had clunky controls and too harshly - but all versions received the look and feel of the film, portrayal of retaining WALL-E's unique personality. The immersion this created was enough to make of spending time with the pair of star-crossed robot who essentially poops out rubbish. I know which one I'd be doing. #38 - The Princess and the Frog (2009) The Princess and the Frog gave audiences a African-American princess in Tiana, a woman and dreams other than the usual fairy-tale The game is set after the film as Tiana fixesup movie in minigames that are triggered through patrons. While these can be played alone, they're designed to have dancing contests, serve customers, frogs. Outfits unlock for Tiana as a reward - but vest you're out of luck. The DS version, as a puzzle platformer, is Tiana in frog form but can swap to Ray, the enemies into objects that help Tiana to traverse The short runtime of the DS version was criticised, that proved hard to beat - which made a terrible AI, but was equally as off-putting. The minigames were considered solid party The Princess and the Frog had the same warm and made perfect entertainment for a cosy #37 - Discs of Tron (1983) Originally conceived as part of the first hardware constraints, Discs of Tron was later use of a more advanced arcade cabinet to simulate Matches combine the disc style combat famously jai alai-inspired scene, where the player In one-on-one battles against the computer-controlled before he defeats you, then do the same next fashion, you either run out of tokens or rage It's a simple enough concept, and one that Sark becomes more aggressive and gains the to his discs, that follow the player then new challenges in the form of multiple moving and platformdestruction. Where the 2008 enhancedport for the Xbox 360 original fared much better. The levels were engaging, and the objectives pour their savings into the machine. Furthermore, the 3D environment was a step controls, a synthesised voice for Sark, and - especially by the seatedcabinet version game. #36 - Brave (2012) Brave is a heartfelt tale of familial bonds who they are. Its video game tie-in, on the other hand... with a much larger emphasis on the action hair. The game begins with a synopsis of the story Kelly MacDonald's voice talents in a reprisal It's then straight into the fray to free wielding a sword and conveniently unburntbow her mother. Enemies need slaying and puzzles solving to Ability upgrades, better gear, and charms twist to her attacks increase her effectiveness useful when faced with ice-monsters, which, prolific in the Scottish Highlands. The main criticisms the title received centred Merida when the player deviated from the expected her form was easily lost among the enemies Regardless of this wrinkle, Brave was praised both the twin stick shooting and hack-and-slash voice work that brought the characters to #35 - Cars (2006) Disney-Pixar's Cars follows the career of a tribute to the late Pixar animator Glenn the latter's famed passion for motorsports with racing. In a story that acts as a sequel to the movie, red race car and the friends he made along - with a monster truck race thrown in for Standard lap-based racing levels make up much in to break things up a bit. Players can look forward to such activities covert tractor tipping, which, in case you're of cow tipping. The handheld versions all differ from the of the minigames and the PSP most of the plot, more minigames than races. The GBA edition suffered from a limited view jumbled collection than a coherent game, and controls and a wandering camera. Despite this, Cars was enjoyable and thematic, main voice cast, including Owen Wilson as Hicks - another name better suited to a Maybe he should be introduced to Hen Wen. #34 - Cars 3: Driven to Win (2017) We're changing games but not gears as we drift It's Cars 3's turn to drive now, as it overtook on our list - and I'm going to stop here could get ridiculous. Cars 3: Driven to Win is a racing game that it's based on, but takes inspiration from races. While the game features 23 characters from locked behind gameplay and achievements. Different game modes offer various ways to tracks to high-stakes events that pit the even a weaponised race with the goal to rack limit ...which feels a little out of character While the visual effects caused performance was lamented by critics, local multiplayer a fun group experience. Many reviewers praised Driven to Win for delivering simpler races and controls that were accessible the more experienced thanks to the difficulty They just had to remember to set it back to #33 - Lego The Incredibles (2018) Our first Lego game on this list belongs to the drill by now - super powers, sibling time they're made out of plastic. As Lego The Incredibles features an open-world through a series of Crime Waves which, despite Instead, they consist of a series of quests in a boss battle, with two newsupervillains Players get to step into the super-shoes of Parr family unit, and can even get their friends two player co-op. Gameplay is formed of the usual Lego title abilitiesunique to each character to defeat The title was criticised for funnelling players the first, along with the playable roster characters. Shockingly, Bob didn't suddenly become more shirt. Despite this, Lego The Incredibles was a solid sounded great, featured gameplay that was combined the humour characteristic of the #32 - Tron: Deadly Discs (1982) By now you're probably wondering just how have - but if we told you, it would ruin If there's another one. Okay, you got me, there's at least one more. Not to be confused with the arcade title, guessed it - a game featuring the disc-based There's a never-ending series of enemies down, who increase in speed and accuracy between Amidst dodging and deflecting their attacks, to jam them open, which provides routes to getting stuck in the corner. Recognizers appear periodically to shut the player isn't careful - but can be forced the eye. Tron moved slower than players would have on their outward trip was considered a missed boomerang-like return - but this did mean a blessing against later waves. Deadly Discs was praised for its graphics and gameplay that was both challenging and you were a fan of the wave-based format. #31 - Disney's The Little Mermaid: Ariel's GBA, DS Released to coincide with The Little Mermaid's Ariel's Undersea Adventure - alternatively - is a collection of simple minigames themed The DS version has only tenuous links to the before it, where Ariel's days are spent doing Sing into the microphone to repeat Ariel's to uncover treasure, and tap - the screen, from priceless pieces of pottery and whatever In contrast to the DS, the GBA edition follows stills from the film between levels. Players go for a paddle as Flounder to collect through hoops as Ariel to follow the eels platforming level in the kitchen with Sebastian The version for the DS felt repetitive due times, and players were disappointed with title's audience didn't mind, with the young the GBA's adherence to the plot, and the opportunity bite size pieces - but not literally. After all, the aim is to avoid cooking Sebastian #30 - Alice in Wonderland (2010) Considering the sinister whimsy characteristic to direct Alice in Wonderland's live-action it formed a sequel of sorts to the classic The game follows the plot of the film, with and guide Alice through Underland. Each has their own unique talents, with the one for the job at hand. Blocked routes can be uncovered with the March dominion over invisibility exposes illusions colour coded to prevent the puzzles from being With a 2D, side-scrolling format and a heavily as different visually as Tweedle Dum and Tweedle it still follows the plot of the movie, and than Alice. The combat was simple, and the need to constantly for upgrades annoyed critics; however, Alice required the use of multiple characters to movie's unique atmosphere and visual style Several of the main cast even reprised their Carter. They were probably too expensive. #29 - Disney's Lilo &amp; Stitch (2002) We're now joining the lovable blue menace Lilo's also along for the ride. In Disney's Lilo &amp; Stitch, the titular alienshows commandeering a spaceship to chase down his events of the movie. A journey that's far from straight forward among the stars before a crash landing puts a disgusting ooze monster in the way. Stitch's levels are packed with enemies in wave assault on a stationary screen. Lilo lacks firepower, so her time on the alien makes use of stealth - which includes convenient with the very inorganic scenery. We're not sure how, but the tactic works - maybe on their ship. The title performed better with critics than too difficult for the young audience it appealed value for more experienced gamers. It had problems with pace but the diversity variety of gameplay styles. Overall, Disney's Lilo &amp; Stitch proved a fun great graphics, smooth animation, and buckets #28 - Disney G-Force (2009) With a plot that pit a team of guinea pig an all-star cast, G-Force should have been than enthusiastic response. Its tie-in game, however, fared much better. Despite a few deviations from the movie's plot with head rodent, Darwin, taking the A competent agent despite his species, he - plus with a jetpack and whip also at his almost. When faced with a pair of gnashing doors and his colleague, Mooch, to take over; able to time, he's the perfect solution to situations Sluggish controls for Mooch and bland environments with the unnecessary inclusion of an "anaglyph-based 360 versions that proved nauseating even when The title was praised for its suitability animations, and the superb voice acting of the role of Darwin. This, combined with the game's faithful visual user reception and allowed players to immerse them needing to train their own team of guinea #27 - Disney Sing It! - High School Musical 3: Senior Year (2008) We've already had a tie-in that allowed players tunes, so it's only fair that audiences got we're a little surprised there wasn't another time. Similar to Senior Year Dance, this title was marketed with its branding, yet features songs European fans got their hands on the game but those in North America had to wait another - but got an updated version of the game Rather than follow the lead of the Sing It Senior Year stepped away from animated visuals character, opting instead for live-action up a notch, just at the expense of customisation. Praised for its polish, lacking any glaring assuaged by the extra songs in the North American was that the title was a little too streamlined. What you saw was what you got, with no special it from a good karaoke game to a great karaoke fans. the Rescue (2000) 102 Dalmatians followed its more famous predecessor of the original 101. Cruella's obsession with fur - while briefly back in full force in this tie-in, with canine who can thwart her newest dognapping venture. Puppies to the Rescue takes characters and as a toy, rather than fashion, designer. Her henchmen from both films make bumbling visual design is informed by the original recognised cartoonish style - except for keeps his live-action depiction. Cruella is a persistent thorn in the player's delivered via a pelting with fresh produce. Puppies are rescued from crates with a good minigames and optional objectives like herding wouldn't be complete without them. Critics were unimpressed by the similarity the gameplay too simple - but the target Puppies to the Rescue took them on a new adventure - so while it couldn't perform many tricks, #25 - Cars 2 (2011) Because no-one should be confined to doing a backseat to espionage with the tow truck, of the British Secret Service. Taking inspiration from the movie but not same name presents races within several game James Bond-style excitement they want. A flavourful training sequence inducts players tech-filled world of intelligence, then the gadgets enabled, waves of enemies to defeat, after a less explosive experience can stick The DS version features additional stealth races against opponents or the clock. The PSP's gameplay, on the other hand, is McQueen back and forth between lanes to avoid Criticised for the lack of a story-driven and quantity of modes available, Cars 2 was that friends could really sink their teeth Those less competent at racing found fun using loved from the film, while seasoned racers In short, Cars 2 had something for everyone. #24 - Disney's Aladdin (1994) [sung] Prince Ali, fabulous he, it's time Right, that's enough of that. Based on the highest grossing animated film royalty with feline, Disney's Aladdin is an street-rat's shoes - except not literally, Levels mostly take one of two forms; sedate palace with an occasional bit of jumping and to endear him to his hosts, and more exciting the magic carpet gets involved. A ride through the endless diamond sky with into a tense episode of bird dodging on the race through the Cave of Wonders is similarly The final showdown against Jafar sees Aladdin the Vizier wields fire and transforms into needs to be pushed off screen to trigger the While the title was criticised for the repeated controls that made jumping out the way or was subject to less-than-positive comparisons year, Disney's Aladdin was nonetheless praised to the movie, and easy gameplay that was suitable #23 - The Jungle Book: Mowgli's Wild Adventure Game Boy Color Arriving on the Game Boy Color the same month consoles, this tie-in to the 1967 movie has composed for the other game in its soundtrack. In The Jungle Book: Mowgli's Wild Adventure through a series of platforming levels in unsurprisingly consist of various flavours temple and a "Rainbow Jungle" suited to Bagheera, in his role as the boy's mentor, the tutorial and carries Mowgli on his back fights. Other notable levels, unlocked by collecting and relying on his own foot power to evade Completing the game rewards the player four to the left of the screen in a deviation from The biggest criticism Mowgli's Wild Adventure players alike found its length cut their enjoyment The occasional change of pace mid-level frustrated and animation were praised, as was Mowgli's to distract them, then using said enemies We're not sure Bagheera would approve of that Spoilsport. #22 - Toy Story (1995) Based on the first fully computer animated and Pixar's successful collaboration, Toy the plot of the movie with only a few tweaks. The action starts out with simple platforming the army men for birthday present opening once the player's got the hang of things in fancy, up-to-date, and competent as his space Variety to the gameplay is introduced by occasional a first-person maze sends Woody through the aliens, and a thematic but futile attempt aliens at the claw with his pull-string lasso. These elements are, however, absent from the standard platforming and action levels - but Toy Story featured slow pacing at times, clunky caused by having to restart the game upon Although its difficulty made it unsuitable the challenge it posed, along with its effective a title that appealed to a more experienced #21 - Disney's Tarzan (1999) Disney's Tarzan - or Disney's Tarzan Action - takes players on a journey through Tarzan's Featuring clips from the movie to set the in Phil Collins' glorious soundtrack, the offer usual platforming fare in a 2.5D style. Tarzan is capable of all the things you'd be capable of, includingrunning on all fours, who comes crashing into the narrative with Despite the fact that Tarzan acquires a blade is the jungle man's main method of defence, can't withstand a few well timed shots of The Game Boy Color version places a bigger in sequences controlling the parasol-wielding While the regular enemies in the game were controls lacked the responsiveness critics a quality title. The graphics, sound, and level design were of the platforming, the exploration required difficulty options that made it suitable for Plus they got to trash the camp as Terk, which #20 - Atlantis: The Lost Empire (2001) Despite sinking at the box office, Atlantis: games before going under. We've already covered the one that's better the title more worthy of some buoyancy. Featuring predominantly action-focused platforming stages in Atlantis: The Lost Empire areintroduced selection of characters to take on their aquatic Each has their own talents, and can be swapped there are numerous puzzles to complete and seeks to save - the lost city of Atlantis. The handheld versions take a two-dimensional the PlayStation's, and include brainteasersthat as Audrey's mechanical proficiency that allows The PlayStation gameplay was considered reminiscent puzzles and similar platforming elements. While the graphics were unimpressive and the Empire was praised for having multiple solutions player was controlling, and for the variety The title retained players' interest throughout and even caused more experienced gamers to provided. #19 - Disney's Hercules (1997) Featuring a hot-headed Hades and a protagonist the adventures of the legendary son of Zeus action hero - once he's past his awkward Disney's Hercules - also known as Hercules title,Disney's Action Game Featuring Hercules quest to prove himself worthy of his birth The focus isn't on the romance that ultimately instead putting Hercules through his paces nature. To ensure a rounded workout there are plenty to be obliterated, and appropriately epic Simultaneously praised for taking inspiration and criticised for its reliance on the traditional of older Disney titles into the 32-bit console Great graphics andhigh-quality animation paired fans and established gamers alike and made Despite its inspiration, playing the game the option to ramp up the difficulty and limit labour of their own. #18 - Toy Story 2: Buzz Lightyear to the Rescue! (1999) With Woody abducted and Andy's toys the only to retrieve the cowboy in this tie-in to Toy Fortunately - or unfortunately if you really Buzz who heads up Woody's rescue. Full of space-age tech and hard plastic resilience, levels with his extendable wings and two-thirds Enemies are no match for his wrist-mounted when used in first-person a reflection of a realistic touch to this otherwise fantastical Boss fights are scattered throughout to challenge his name, Emperor Zurg has to be tackled properly Reception to the title was not wholly positive; of a peaceful protest held outside the Californian a unique invention for the game who didn't Mexican stereotype. Disney apologised and announced that the character in subsequent versions of the game. Controversy aside, the title was praised for which were wholly appropriate for the intergalactic of running around as their favourite space #17 - The Jungle Book (1994) SNES, Game Boy, PC Following the success of Disney tie-in games was given the same treatment and translated With the plot of the film at its core, Mowgli's man-village and take his place among his own Exactly what that entails depends on the version, the board - Mowgli runs, jumps, and swings throwing fruit and jumping on enemies like Level design and the number of stages differs objective of collecting gems. How many need to be collected, how fast, and while the Mega Drive offers bonus levels, Boss fights also vary, so where most versions' of fruit and bowling coconuts - or armadillos Game Gear instead has Mowgli avoid falling While successfully grabbing vines was rather frustratingly difficult due to blind jumps quality platforming, otherwise responsive The Jungle Book gave players more than just contained weren't enough to ruin the fun. PC Boasting two hours of video content, and the in scenes shot specifically for the game, of the same name that included more stuffed Stevenson envisaged for his swashbuckling Accompanied by Gonzo and Rizzo, the player their way through the story. A parrot is on hand - or rather, on shoulder typical of the genre is absent due to its With interactable segments and minigames that practice with the ship's cannon, the player island under Kermit's - I mean, Captain Silver's inevitable mutiny, that is. Muppet Treasure Island was considered a competent, It entertained and sometimes challenged younger the FMV of the actors and muppets provided captivated both the kids and their muppet-loving It even ended with a farewell from Long John treasure was the friends they made along the utter cliche, that is. It's just a shame it didn't include the songs, the movie. #15 - The Hunchback of Notre Dame: Topsy Turvy Game Boy, PC Come one, come all, to the spectacular celebration Presented in the bell tower of Notre Dame is a selection of minigames inspired by the Players can grab a friend, or their own piece challenges; hovering above the chimneys of pop the others' balloons while hampered - or competitive bowling sends Esmerelda's goat pins, and a Breakout-style block breaker determines The version for the Game Boy features a slightly down to better suit the handheld's capabilities entirely - throwing food is swapped for a picture puzzle. Critics praised the humour the gargoyles brought tone perfectly, and, voiced by the same actors Despite featuring only five minigames, they both satisfied those of different skill levels - or aged - but sadly there wasn't a "gargoyle" demographic #14 - Disney Fairies: Tinker Bell and the DS We were surprised that Tinker Bell and the title, too - but it had both UK and US premieres, as such, its tie-in video game has earned Released to coincide with the film coming that Tinker Bell visits for the summer. Rather than following the plot of the film, player character - a customisable fairy other fairies in attendance at the camp. An emphasis is placed on exploring the countryside with activities like planting seeds, making Lizzy's house - while not the focus like as the location of a lost fairy, while the caves give the game a little visual variety. The title was praised for the film-accurate controls and the variety of cosmetic items collecting crafting materials. The inclusion of a separate menu from which the open nature of the gameplay - players if they wished, and with so many locations players who wanted to smell the roses at their Game (2011) Released to coincide with On Stranger Tides Jack Sparrow and his piratical associates The story mode takes players through the movies the story with a plasticised twist and the Main characters are obtained by playing through level. This gives players the chance to collect everything the abilities of subsequently unlocked characters were previously inaccessible. While Jack can search for treasure using his they can't blast through a jail cell's bars come back to later. With plenty of content and enjoyable replayability, was praised for its wealth of engaging gameplay more than just a place to pick up collectables. It was also considered an improvement on the controls - although they still weren't flawless. Overall, the title provided a fun, captivating entertained far beyond the first playthrough, is the worthiest to sail with into the horizon. #12 - Jungle Book (1996) This title is not based on the 1967 animated live-action adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's Despite its famous cast, this film lacks the predecessor, though we suspect that the absence be why. Jungle Book's runtime is filled with clips specifically for the game, with a Scotsman Interactable segments, simplechoices, and the gameplay, and while it doesn't follow it to create a complimentary adventure for When their path crosses events of the film King Louie's crown is put on hold to aid The game was packaged with a microphone to that was divisive among critics. The negative either found the idea and experience fine with the concept but not the implementation The positive, on the other hand, regarded set it apart from most games. Teamed with the quality visuals and simple enjoyable diversion for the kiddos who wanted jungle. #11 - The Lion King (1994) SNES, Game Boy, PC Arguably the most famous tie-in to the movie, envisage when thinking about great Disney fan of titles from the early 90s, that is. Beginning with the joyful adventures of the The Lion King sticks close to the narrative platforming levels. Bright and relatively safe scrambles over exile contrast with the spooky, hyena-filled Pride Rock marred by the sinister overtones the music. While some critics and users deemed the title this was praised by others because it provided and more experienced players. Bug-catching bonusgames with Timon and Pumbaa the enemies posed a real threat, the platforming controls responded well so mistakes were the Additionally, the graphics and sound were of each level, and added to the enjoyment parents who were exposed to only a fraction kids couldn't get past the second level. #10 - The Jungle Book (1988) Based on the 1967 film, but not related to of the blue and only in Europe - so the adventure. With the play area viewed as a screen from is to progress through the story while keeping Lose a life or get injured too frequently land of nod and it's game over. The plot is loosely told through the changing passes through screens that represent the barren savannahas he's stalked by Shere Enemies are overcome with thrown fruit - apart to stop him - but the ability to attack to an overabundance of Bare Necessities. Don't worry, he respawns. Critics found the title's setting novel, and way to keep track of the player's lives, but The less enthusiastic thought it boring, whilethe on the eye, and well suited to younger players. For them the simple concept and lenient consequences the jungle without getting their feet dirty #9 - Toy Story 3 (2010) A final "yee-haw" takes us galloping into with Woody, Buzz, and cheerful cowgirl Jessie The story mode mostly follows the plot of at Bonnie's with tales of the gang's adventures. From a pull string-swinging good time at Sunnyside at the junkyard, the trio each have a part The "Toy Box" mode offers an open experience set in the town from Woody's Roundup, the quests for Mayor Hamm, develop the settlement, Zurg on the PS3. Unsurprisingly, he has different goals to Its absence on the PS2 and PSP versions was the star of the game and was favourably compared family-friendly format. The gameplay was considered smooth, varied, impressed with their similarity to their movie The devs worked with Pixar to achieve this, brother - along with some of the original part but sounded it, too. Thanks to all this, Toy Story 3 is one title #8 - Tron (1982) We said there'd be another visit to the computerised tie-in that came to arcades only a month after Four minigames inspired by different parts and tactical planning; complete all four to times, and congratulations! You've beaten the game. Doing so is easier said than done, as while up significantly as the game goes on. What starts as a few grid bugs to face in and one light cycle to force into a wall or becomes several, and though they follow a between levels. Time at the helm of Tron's tank in a maze to blast through the MCP's constantly rotating line-up. Tron wowed in the arcades of the 80s, and controls, and both looking and sounding fantastically It was considered one of the best coin-operated and a modernised version of the cabinet can - although it costs a little more to own #7 - 101 Dalmatians: Escape from DeVil Manor PC It's time for man's best friend to face fashion's the 1996 live-action movie. Set after the Dalmatians have been secreted of the puppies not from Pongo and Perdita's says and escape from DeVil Manor. Simple puzzles like opening drawers to create gameplay to allow the pooch to sniff out an While the creepy confines of Cruella's manor friend Whizzer is there to lend a helping a boost up a suit of armour to set a trap Escape from DeVil Manor was praised for its henchmen resulted in a different path out screen, and left no room for worry about the Environments conveyed Cruella's villainous and the gameplay was appropriately easy for It even delivered the explosive finale of left Cruella both covered in muck and under Despite his name, Whizzer went the whole game him for leaving Cruella a little reminder #6 - Disney's Aladdin (1993) "When the wind's from the east and the sun's the mask of Tutankhamun? What? Apart from the detour into a pyramid because roughly follows Aladdin's plot, with the young put his acrobatic skills to the test. Whether dodging around Agrabah's market to or taking a colourful vacation into the lamp Aladdin makes good use of quick reflexes and existence - plus a blanket he convenientlyalwayshas Armed only with apples and a fighting style on traversal of the areas rather than the needs to be defeated, that is. As apples bounce harmlessly off his scaly lifting as he treats the Vizier's head like Complaints about the runtime being too short aside, the title was praised for its interesting and platforming that wasn't too punishing The recognisable soundtrack and fantastic the stage inside the lamp was singled out the colourful character of the genie so creatively. #5 - Fantasia: Music Evolved (2014) In a change from the other Fantasia tie-ins on the music rather than the struggles of Set long after Mickey's apprenticeship has student,but instead of wrestling mops, they're from a malevolent force known as the "Noise". The Kinect's motion controls are used to interact and unlocking remixes through story progression Classic compositions by Tchaikovsky and Vivaldi Lady Gaga, and all provide a toe-tapping good arms and thumps in the air to hit on-screen a broken TV. Other than infrequent interruptions caused recognition, Fantasia: Music Evolved had very Critics praised the title for its rhythm-based or staying in time. It encouraged creativity within the remixes explore sounds and chase what they thought getting something wrong - because there Getting the highest score, however, required a musical canvas - but regardless of play this title around wasby playing the Depeche #4 - Timon &amp; Pumbaa's Jungle Games (1995) When I was a young warthog, arcades were places them no doubt dreamed of growing up and owning Turns out though, that arcade ownership isn't in this 1995 minigame collection. Timon &amp; Pumbaa's Jungle Games features a day newly unveiled, food-focussed, 'jungle arcade' to feast upon. A Frogger style game of hippo hopping sends snacks that float along the river; 'Burper' and destroy undesirable items like fruit - yuck fixed-position 'Sling Shooter' pits the player's and devious jungle denizens whilst avoiding Rounded out with a game of 'Jungle Pinball' the duo's food stores, the title offers short, one or two players. Critics considered Timon &amp; Pumbaa's Jungle children to play, while high scores and a satisfied those that were slightly older, their friends or personal best. The most praise however went to the visuals verdant home in the film, the accurate voice commentary from the unlikely pair that ran It was still probably best to stay upwind #3 - Treasure Planet: Battle at Procyon (2002) In a step away from the platforming and party Battle at Procyon swaps character-based action Jim Hawkins' post-movie career in the Navy that are disrupting peace talks with a people Routine patrols give way to tense battles of ship speed, and well-timed manoeuvres to - unless you miss, then they're not so devastating With an eventual fleet at his disposal, four but two Long John Silvers, Jim's career keeps he maintains his ultimate faith in the goodness Aww. Critics decided the pacing issues caused by made up for with exciting battles, smooth Ship movement was kept to a single plane which flying, and ensured both navigation and combat Skirmish and multiplayer modes allowed players their tactical acumen, and while Battle at it was considered a very worthy introduction #2 - Tron 2.0 (2003) From the confusing Maze-A-Tron to the arcade gamut of quality, but beating them all is with a twist. Presented as a sequel to the film, Tron 2.0 sees a digitised Jet Bradley - the son of into another computerised world. With a virus running rampant through the system, him, and the threat of digitised human hackers computers worldwide, Jet has no shortage of Armed with hisdisc and occasionally a gun range, Jet has to fight his way through the else, of course. Thebright, neon graphics were applauded by without compromising its atmosphere, and while shooter, that wasn't a bad thing. Elements from different genres fit together combat was broken up by high-stakes platformingsegments system enabled flexible, customised playstyles. With its great gameplay, thematic appearance alike found Tron 2.0 to be the Tron tie-in It's just a shame that they had to wait #1 - Disney's Aladdin (1993) By staying one jump ahead of the breadline has stolen the top spot on our list with this Equipped with just a scimitar and the apples criminals, environmental hazards, and a deceitful a lot more than a wave of lava to halt the Jasmine's hand, and Jafar's defeat. With locations from and inspired by the film levels, there's no compromise here between Disney's Aladdin was widely acclaimed upon praises, and ultimately became the best-selling protagonist. Critics and players were charmed by the responsive that eased falling to its difficulty - until screen, that is. These characterful moments came courtesy of were involved with the production of the movie first for Disney that paved the way for licensed Many titles tried to replicate the success to recreate its magic, as is evidenced by guess Aladdin truly is a diamond in the rough,