So I just got back home from a 400km trip It's called traxter, In the rest of the world. This is the side doors. This is the back windscreen. No, this is the front windscreen. And that's the back windscreen. And this is the roof. This is just mounting parts, I guess. So nothing seems to be broken. So I've been going through the manuals And it seems like then the roof, then the doors, and then the back window. I'm not sure about the back I haven't really read about that. There's se that says install this first But these screw holes won't be accessible So let's start with that so what do we do first? There we go. All right. Let's throw on the roof. Let's lift this on. Right, then This is supposed to be put on But since I got the doors, to use these screw holes. So I'm going to leave that for now the doors. I've still going to leave this kind of loose, So i can set that in. Okay, so this blind rivet, for the mount yeah. I don't really got that. The biggest I have But, I mean, just wiggling around a little And if not, I just. I mean, half a millimeter.. a hammer, Probably going to solve So the thing with blind rivets like this, you use a tool So it's creating a sleeve on the inside. So it pretty much just sticks there. So you need a tool like this. The only problem is that the tool I have This goes to M6 and this is M8. So I got I need to improvise this. Just the normal bolt and nut, And two washers usually works for this. Okay. Something like that. There we go How tight do you want this to be? Maybe there. Let's try that. It was around.. here maybe. I don't know if this is supposed to be like this. Well, guess so With the door. This cable was also included. It's supposed to go here and then onto the door here. Just so the door can't be opened fully. I don't really see the point with that. I mean, it could be nice to just, Open the doors fully like this. So I'm not going to install this. This is supposed to go here. Okay. I think that's it. Oh, I should have taken this off before Okay, a little to much snow i guess So this thing is sure wider than an ordinary This is like driving a car in the forest. Yeah, the thing with putting doors like this, it's like.. It's an echo chamber. It's really loud in here. But I guess Some sound dampening material. Yeah, maybe here in the back, too, to get the noise down a little bit, but. Well. But, not that i mind I mean, I got my earmuffs on so. Yeah. So let's go fuel this thing up. It's kind of low on fuel. So let's go to the city I gonna get a Pizza. This is a kebab pizza. I kind of forgot to mention Guess we can eat it like this Yeah. So. Yeah. I don't have a wiper for this. So I got to order that Would be kinda nice to be able From debries and yeah when it come raining like this So I'm kind of curious to see if I can get I mean it's not really that deep It should be able to get over there. I think it's like a little bit So, yeah. So the thing with this is that I mean, it got 3 air intakes So this is one here. Here is one. And the third one is here It's kind of inline with Yeah pretty much the tire. So as long as the water isn't over it should make it. It's kind of exact here I wonder if I could get out to the island there Or if it's getting deep.. the current is really strong here. You can see I don't know if you can see that, but this thing is sliding sideways. Kind of slowly, but it's sliding. I mean, it's kind of shallow. Until there. Then it gets deep And if you actually here swimming, You go with the current there, Not really that bad, I've been here snorkeling. Kind of fun. Just gliding with the stream here. I don't know, There, but I think it may be too deep here So I got my wiper kit So i got to install this. So I got the instructions here. So let's follow that. Put this on to lock that in. I don't know Like a. It's not possible I got it, max in. i mean I gonna break this. If I try to put it in any harder. Yeah i don't wanna break that.. Nope. It's not happening. No. I gotta find a new washer to put here between. Kinda annoying having it like this. Yeah. So I had to take my truck home, so I left my car. So i got to take this to work. I think it's a good time to try out my my wiper. Got some delivery. Got to install that in the lake Some sea heating to heat my garage Since I don't have a fan in this, I kind of need to have the window opened So, I mean, I think that windscreen wiper works It's not really a problem using that. Unless you're holding a camera I would say the main problem the condensation inside here Even though I have the window opened, Yeah. Making the view kind of bad. So I need to install some kind of heating system for this. I kind of looked at the stock system, spending EUR2,000 on something like that. Around this. I think that's good enough You can hear some cracking while driving, but I guess it's just the. Some bubbles close to that surface. Maybe. A little crack down there So it's pretty much a year And I driven.. 47 hours Yeah. 1048km. So, I mean, I got I had some uses for this. I've been thinking but I don't know. I mean, I got the machinery. it would be kind of nice having a plow on this, I think. And a heating system that would be nice. I don't have any heat in this right now. But, I mean, this thing has pretty much pre-installed, you just Put it there. So it got the air channels You just unscrew this, Yeah, it's coming up there, You just snap on the heating package there. So I've been thinking about taking the heating system I have up by the crusher there. I think that would work. I had some more planned for this building the garage Took pretty much a lot of time. So I kind of put all the other projects But I got some more project for this, doing some jobs. Hopefully next summer, end this video here. So yeah. Yeah.