where is the operating room 408 on the fourth floor 408 on the fourth floor Captain Deng Come with me get out of the way Why move? What are you doing? you What's the queue? Do you know who I am Get in line Let me go quickly I have influence hurry up Hello, I am this Feel sorry Dare to steal my things understand How about it? fine Walk So, was this your Li family's idea? Or your idea? Brother Lin I never wanted this child. What does it bring me? I know you don't like me But Aunt Lu has been looking forward to this child for so many years. You really This matter can't be blamed on Lila If you hadn't been seriously injured while climbing three years ago I'm worried that our official family will have no successors. I wouldn't let them keep your sperm either Everyone knows how Li La feels about you. You said you should leave the sperm alone. Might as well just do it You can steal my things openly Artificially granted to oneself Such a despicable method Are you planning to cover it up too? Oh, the baby is already in his belly now. What can we do? Abolish Impossible, as long as I am here for a day No one wants to take away this child Why do you interfere in my life? I am your mother You are almost 30 years old You've never even been in love once When are you going to let me have my grandson? How many years do I have left to live? Li Lan Don't worry, as long as you get pregnant with Guan's child I will make him responsible to the end Give me the merger and acquisition documents of Kemei Group It's Mr. Guan Walk I feel sleepy easily recently. to beat ah rogue There's a thread on your butt Haha, what a poor excuse. It's not that you don't look at yourself in the mirror What is worthy of my harassment? I'm not here to harass people. It's based on appearance, right? Follow me to the security office. Hello I'm really not that kind of person you do not know me Fainted from shock Uncle Ding, are you okay? I heard you fainted in the elevator fine My glasses, these Go quickly We made a big mistake. Let's go. not enough Miss Lin Meng Don't move You're pregnant, did you know? Pregnancy is not impossible Pregnancy indicators You are indeed in early pregnancy The baby is already one month old Pregnant women That's fine. You bitch Cheating on you, mother Don't let me run behind and find a man You're cheating on me, right? OK release Speak well Don't do it, you are the ex-husband ah Be rude again You're welcome. You guys wait for me The biological father of the child is there I'll help you find it No I've never had a man I had a premarital check-up You said artificial insemination was done to the wrong person It was my fault It was you and a girl who came for the check-up at the same time. I didn't confirm But the sperm was caught in his body Impressed I know what you did to me I will do whatever you tell me. Ahhh put this matter Quality Otherwise you won't be able to survive with your blood you and me what's wrong with you Maybe I think you look familiar Poetry is like spring water Can't live until dark Sir sir wake up gentlemen Sir Sir wake up Mr. Wake Up is such a good man Next person Let's go Lin Zhege Why would you bring a woman to the obstetrics and gynecology department? You are pregnant with my child Of course Healthy in my belly Thank you sir for helping me a pregnant woman Next I can do it myself Brother Yunzhe I misunderstood you You are so brave You Mingmei, right? He is Luo Lei Really pregnant What should mom do? What should I do Lost pregnancy certificate Our Li Jiaxuan is finished Pregnant woman what background I have no idea But I think she is very poor As long as he is poor, he will definitely have an abortion. And as long as you are pregnant with Guan Yunzhe's child Mrs. Guan will definitely protect you At worst, I'll have another baby again. you must come is my whirlpool I got the wrong name Manual supervision of you Manual prison so Whose child is this? yes It belongs to Sister Juan and Juanzi. Can't find the specific Juanzi you are still young His child recovered quickly. I've recovered beat Abolish Mingmei, I can't find the file you gave me last week. Give me some Manager Ma It's about to start again Mimi is closed Personal foul language In severe cases, physical contact Liu Mimei is doomed this time I've long discovered that you're a matchmaker. It's just that I can't usually That's a bargain for me. Supervisor, this is the company company What happened to the company Doesn't the company update itself? I'm pregnant It's not me Just like popularity Hahaha You think clearly If you are fired as a pregnant woman No company wants you. so let's take me Hit me, right? Who dares to ask me good things? Do you know who I am This is the first time someone dares to show off to me in front of me Let go first, let go first give it to you Remember to hit me with the same force Does pregnancy make you a wimp? If you don't hit me, I'll leave Wait sister What are you doing? Be careful or I'll fire you So you should keep some of my kindness. I'm gonna kill you. Why Who are you going to kill? ha Guan Guan Come and meet me in the grassland It's just you who feels uncomfortable Thank you for saving me What should Mr. Guo do? So arrogant Must have done other bad things Find the evidence and send it to the police station besides Don't let him tell anyone what happened just now Mr. Guan, I was wrong, Mr. Guan. General Manager Guan's financial statements for this quarter are provided to you. Thanks Wood Move this beauty to The Propaganda Department is so excellent stay in my office Pity Mr. Guan, people just want to follow you. Then you have to line up please slow down Find the owner of these glasses Let him be my master wear your jacket Why should I give it to Guan as the general contractor? Because it's ugly look Another Mr. Guo The president's secretary is assigned to the Propaganda Department Our company really has a hundred flowers blooming for the Propaganda Department Competition of beauty oh Mr. Guan, you see that he has no worldly desires, right? Annoy him Who will work for me when I leave? I've eaten Assistant Wu has been cleaned up. Okay, come and see me how to place an order. My glasses are still in the stairwell Mr. Guan, I will report Mr. Guan Mr. Guan, are you not here? I'm sorry, Mr. Guan I didn't see clearly just now I touch your butt and you grab my breasts, right? Excuse me I'm so sorry Do you know why I asked you to be my secretary? Know Talk about it I'm ugly so you have the desire to work Don't worry, Mr. Guan I will never have any thoughts about you Good to go out Hey wait a minute Do you need maternity leave? No need. I have already decided to have an abortion. That's good Woodwood Assistant Guan Wu has something going on at home Already back okay Do you need anything? I'm going to a drinking party. Need someone to drive you Uh, I'll go. I can drive you are pregnant Or go home and rest first It's okay. I can do it. How could I let you get drunk? Outside alone Stay here. The situation inside is not good Not suitable for pregnant women Good Mr. Guan The Heaton Hotel is famous for its desserts Go and have something to eat. Just order whatever you want. Thank you Mr. Guan There are good people among capitalists, too. Thank you for hospitality It's a cake worthy of 380 per portion Sweet but not greasy Enjoy the silky smoothness This is Shuhua who is he Why are you here? Come and book a room in a hotel with your adulterer. Some people like to have fun with pregnant women. a ha ha ha So you have cheated on me a long time ago They are just a little bit ahead of you Your ex is so rubbish In fact, you already have another woman outside. Why is he still in the ward? Hit me with confidence Because you're sexy Pretend to be pure and noble in front of me every day Don't let me touch you alive or dead It turns out that you spend more time playing behind the scenes than anyone else. I don't I said it was a hospital Got it wrong who cares Hiding women, I only hate that I couldn't leave Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 380 pieces of cake for you it's a pity Oh shit roll Why do you eat the cake I bought you? You're in the hospital again. You are the one who said you are not an adulterer. I told you that you are the director, so you are welcome. Ahhh I want to see who is causing trouble in our hotel. The two of them The two of them were causing trouble at the Heaton Hotel Catch them quickly, arrest them No no no I don't know him He is a good and courageous man Look at me, a pregnant woman being bullied here Just came to help Brother, please let him go. I take full responsibility What a surprise Neither of you two can escape today catch them Let the dogs out Good luck, Mr. Guan. Good luck, Mr. Guan. Mr. Guan Who is it? Guan Yunzhe, China Resources Group Mr. Guan is also the biggest customer of our Xidong Hotel. Oh oh My stomach hurts. This is Hey, I called Manager Jiang, please help me send him to the hospital A thorough inspection of the entire body He can't be hospitalized for a month in this condition. sit Oh, I don't feel any pain now It doesn't hurt anymore. No, you still hurt. No pain, no pain I don't feel any pain let me go open I don't feel pain Why did you just break up with me? Well, this is what I should do as a secretary I can't let the hatred associated with pregnant women stick to you What happened to the pregnant woman? Who stipulates the order Pregnant women cannot fall in love Ah what It's okay, just say it casually oops Mr. Guan, are you okay? If you have nothing to do, go here cough Are you OK It hurts a little. My legs hurt. why are you with him Hello Mrs. Kwan I am Mr. Guan's secretary Mr. Guan drank too much I sent him back secretary For today's call It seems he knows nothing. come over Official You have a boss My wife is outside. Who are you? It's really invulnerable to sin. Let's go. Okay, you go first Brother Lin Zhe Who are you? Could it be Oh no, no way This Li La is already pregnant with Mr. Guan's child. Must be a couple But this who cares I'm pregnant with a child that no one knows about. This isn't evidence. Silver Car Let's catch the kids tonight. You came to me Well it's me Hello, Mr. Guan's card is with me. Hello, Mr. Guan's card is with me. Guan Zong Guan Zong are you okay What are you doing? Get out Mr. Guan, wake up, wake up. You are a secretary Just do your job well. My job is to serve Mr. Mr. Guan, are you married? I am unmarried Miss Li, our General Guan is unmarried Bitch, you dare to seduce him you For the sake of you being pregnant like me I won't hit you It never occurred to me to seduce him But Miss Li, please respect yourself. You are dismissed If Ms. Li doesn't leave, I won't leave either. You're so capable. You can stay here all night. two digits Facing the light child Brother Yin Zhe, I just want to accompany you Don't come here again Why doesn't that woman leave? he is my person And you are just a thief Don't stretch your hands too long ah Bitch, I must take away your child. Materials are limited Mr. Guan, are you drinking to relieve your hangover? How do you know Li La is not my wife? Mr. Guan, you are a good and polite person. If Miss Li is really your wife You must have great respect for her. Are you trying to kiss my ass? I don't I didn't do anything last night. I really can't remember. No, you didn't do anything last night. That's good thank you for helping me stay healthy Hum, just don't blame me for being nosy. That Mr. Guan Miss Li La is pregnant with your child Why are you still wary of her? He stole my sperm that was frozen in the hospital do artificial insemination Hey, what are you thinking about? I am normal It was an accident Do you understand the unexpected situation? I encountered a mountain accident My family froze me because they were afraid I might pass out. Unexpectedly, she was stolen by Li La for artificial insemination. The chances of getting pregnant are so low He still succeeded. Artificial insemination Miss Li's situation is the same as mine. A month ago The doctor accidentally gave me the donor's gold That made me pregnant So, The success rate is not low The same to you one month You and Li La made the crafts on the same day. That's quite a coincidence Miss Li is so beautiful Mr. Guan, your child must be particularly outstanding. So is he, right? because of what I'm telling you I am normal I never doubted you you better be You are Mr. Guan's new secretary Yes it's me Is there a problem I'm your ex Ellie Come and do the handover work with you Today you send all these to their respective thresholds Tang Qian should be doing the handover, right? The oily rice noodles are not comfortable now. This Ellie can be tormenting people. How did you seduce Mr. Guan? I don't Some people Just looking honest In fact, it's very sexy I admit you are smart. Learned from the previous secretary's experience Learn to act crazy and stupid around the CEO But I can see your ambition at a glance You are waiting One day I got the chance to climb into bed I'm here to work Here to choose a concubine again Don't pretend to be an official secretary. They all want to be the hostess of Huarui Who would still work if they cross the class line? Do I need to deliver these documents in person? Or is it your way of torturing me? If you are asked to send me, I will send it Small outsourcing What nonsense are you talking about? I have never had any liking for Guan Zong. Even though he is tall Handsome face and nice person But I absolutely can't like it Still said he didn't like it Look how many times you praised Mr. Guan. You must be kidding me. How could Mr. Guan come here? General Guan When did it become your turn to give orders to my secretary? My wife is familiar with all departments of the company. Work for you at your convenience well said I will learn more from him in the future. Let him take the file yes And starting from today, you will become a regular employee Thank you for your attention Let's go beauty The president's wife said she would come to the company to see you later. Good, you said I'm tall Are you okay with your handsome face? Of course the president You are naturally handsome Unparalleled Handsome Appearance is dignified That's enough. It's also a compliment. Why is yours so tight? The president is just flattering you. You mean Yunzhe Fascinated by his secretary Yes, that female secretary. He deliberately prevented me from getting along with Brother Yunzhe Harming the baby in someone's belly There is no way to develop a relationship with my father. Don't be afraid that I'll tear him apart. President's Financial Statements last night The secretary is him. You mean the secretary? Such a simple little girl Ma Lila came with you. Why not welcome? No secretary Go get some drink. yes sit down Yunzhe, your mother is a good child. She is pregnant now. I'll go to your place to take care of you. Don't be ungrateful. You said she would take care of me I just want more children Get along with you The fertilized egg in the belly does not need company yet I will arrange the best entertainment team Please stop wearing sexy pajamas Come to my house ah Li La, why are you so stupid? The baby in my belly is still small. You can't sleep in the same room I'm just too scared last night He and Secretary You returned home together Still very close I'm jealous for a moment How could he fall in love with an ugly secretary? Right, Yunzhe I'm not in a hurry yet How about talking to a pregnant secretary? Premier League brother, if you say that I can rest assured that last night you Don't worry, I will stick to my job. I will never let Mr. Guan's family misunderstand me. I have a clear memory of last night. No one can pry my mouth open no The general financial statements are already there. I'm going out first Will you do the abortion surgery for Jiu Mingmei next week? I'll arrange it. You're panicking too. sorry I can't let you come to a world where no one welcomes you Next surgery You Mingmei is very determined about abortion That's good. I was planning to help him move it. Remember to shave his child cleanly Come out for some fresh air Feeling much better Ever since I got pregnant I always feel like vomiting Hahaha That's the dragon baby's vitality Ha ha Oh, right How is your family? Since Huarui's investment The crisis has passed But it's still not as good as Youshi Jewelry Take your time You are not with that Youshi girl Do you have a good relationship? Can we communicate more? Thanks to anyone who wants to talk to that grumpy maniac You Mingmei's surname is also You Bianjian aunt Can I go to the Huarui Charity Dinner on Friday? Then go ahead Now I'm pregnant. Even if Lin Zhe disagrees He also has to acknowledge your identity. Thank you, auntie. Where are they? Tonight the Secretary's Office will have a dinner party They go first After I finished my work, I followed him there. Originally, they wanted to invite you But I said you should leave today I said let's go Not a place to have dinner together Ah, so hungry Eat eat eat eat eat Walk, Walk, Walk and Eat Hey Ningmei You are the secretary who has stayed with Mr. Guan the longest. What's the secret? The secret Is to resist all temptations oh oh Secretary You can't resist the charm of Mr. Guan. At the beginning, there was a little bit So I asked Company security Laughed I put Mr. Guan's poster at home and look at it every day Now let's see that Mr. Guan has no confidence at all, hehe Sit down quickly I think should not be It's nothing I heard you replaced my photo on the wall Yep Mr. Guan You are like a god in my heart I'm afraid I'll see that you're not interested in working So I'll exercise my little heart See But can't do anything else how could be You Mingmei What's wrong Dad, I think I saw the place where you disappeared for five years Don't talk nonsense. You are the only one in my Youzongyuan. I raised him Respect others and cherish He doesn't know what's good for him runaway You don't deserve to appear in front of me. I saw it wrong. He doesn't deserve to enter a high-end hotel. Let's go dad Didn't we have a pleasant chat before I came here? yes Ah ha ha Mingmei, are you new to our department? Do you have any hobbies? What hobbies I have nothing But I like climbing Mountain climbing you can climb mountains Do you have a photo Let me see if there is Choose two to see Looks good, right? You and I are you who Have you ever rescued someone in the mountains? The little animals have saved you. oh i met you Pomegranate helps Yunnan sister call her back Good guy ah Did the living apologize to you? No, I'll go home when the ambulance arrives. Take a look without return you Really I found him We respect the kindness of Mingmei He can't drink one glass. Lin Mei, are you allergic to alcohol? Uh, I'm not I'm going to drive in a minute, President. This president I do not drink I'll drive you home later. I drink Yeah, cover your face. Overtime hard work I'll leave this little thing to you. What? Poetry is like spring water Live until dark gentlemen gentlemen ah Sir wake up Mr. wake up stop The daughter-in-law is the most guilty Guan Long, are you okay? Thank you for saving me It's okay, this is what I should do Then do you want to let me go? If it is tighter, the baby will come out. Already prepared Why do I miss my loved ones every time I get drunk? What else can you say? Want to fuck with a pregnant woman like me Do the math OK Hey, this, this Hey hey hey no Not thirsty Pregnant woman, are you okay? Ahhh There was a fight Secretary Yang Secretary Yang Secretary Yang ah President Um You also had a good rest last night He should have seen it Tomorrow Hey hey hey Master I command No drinking in the future It's about buying people. Why Secretary He The president calls you Is the president in a good mood? Seek blessings from yourself How could I treat the distinguished Mr. Guan He hit the ground with just one kick. Could it be that he wanted to burn me to silence me? Sorry Mr. Guan When I opened my eyes in the morning, I saw your beautiful face. I was shocked, so I wore it It's really not intentional What did you see? besides Well I mean Did you see anything you shouldn't have seen? No I swear I didn't wear my glasses when I went into the bathroom last night didn't see anything That's not necessary You can go to the human resources department later. Salary doubled Um You do not understand 3 years ago we Hey Mom I have something tonight Can't go to the dinner party Take care of Lila. Be your girlfriend tonight I'm afraid not My girlfriend is already married. It also It's so beautiful This is so beautiful. Madam, please choose the dress you want to try on Uh uh no, I'm not me. I'm here to work Secretary Li Your job today is to be my female companion Accompany me to a charity meeting I am you Okay, I'll leave it to you then. Remember to use cosmetics that can be used by pregnant women yes please Madam, you give me a fighting spirit next door The most beautiful dress in the store Madam, please come to me. good Beard, I have to go to the banquet beforehand After a while you give gifts and take a break. you are oh Wow Oh, it's beautiful you are so beautiful lady Our dresses are like foils Really? Then let me see Why Come, let's show it to Mr. Guan first. Secretary Yang, we are already dressed up. Who are you? I'm not the assistant. woman Chinese people are all good at lying Is this still the Secretary You I know? Ah yes The president is going to the banquet hall first. I'll take you to the scene Well let's go I let you wear it, let you wear it, let you wear it Does it look good? Let you wear it, let you wear it, let you wear it hahaha Cheap Wear a skirt You're just like your mother, seducing men, right? The third child You can only wear servant's clothes in front of me Hahahaha wear it again I was moved to tears Um Very touched nice! You love it Let's go. Don't keep the president waiting. Brother Lin Zhe, I have been looking for you for a long time Leela is your date tonight. You two finally became him. no Who else could it be if not me? and you bet Where did I come from, beauty? I will never meet again I will never fall again ah you Are you okay? Who are you and what are you pretending to be? This is my female companion It's okay, let me go You Mingmei introduce This is my friend Brother Qin Hello Mr. Qin I understand, I understand everything This is the woman Li Na can never hurt Don't talk nonsense about my secretary Let's have a drink together Can't drink to get pregnant Fuck Mr. Qin The child is not our president's oh I now believe that there is no relationship between you two Yunzhe Next to you is the woman who stole your gold Didn't you say he was poor? I didn't know he could look so good dressed up. Mom, what should I do? Based on my appearance, my chances of winning are not high. Plus, I will definitely lose. not optimistic When did you meet Guan Yunzhe? Being so nice to a woman He might be tempted Please cheer me up tonight Find a time to announce that you are pregnant with Guan's child Let that woman understand Pearls will never be accepted by the public My dad is over there. Go say hello Go have some dessert Early screening from Heaton Hotel You are so handsome and beautiful Can't fly like a flower I thought I saw it wrong Why are you in the same city as me, bitch? You Zhiqi Haven't seen each other in 5 years Your dad is here never mind stop Who asked you to wear a skirt? I told you to wear it once I'll just cut it once Fingerboard You know him You two private messages? Mind your own business If your Li family didn't have Huarui's Japanese capital You think you are qualified to talk to people? snort Oh, I took a closer look today. You two really look alike. Is this Shut up It's all your fault. Let me become the laughing stock of the whole city You still like eating cakes as much as before, right? Then you are really enough Come out with me Guan Yunzhe What's your relationship with him? Do you know he is He is my secretary. Ms. Liu Either leave Or just shut up. Yunzhe Your Secretary's First Sword Dirty, but you still have to protect him It's not your turn to teach me how to do things He's really attracted to him Why do you bitch? Are you OK I saw you were shaking just now fine I'm sorry for embarrassing you, Guanzi. I didn't expect him to come. It's the madness that's embarrassing, not you. It's not me either Otherwise, I'd better go home first. I can't leave wearing such a beautiful skirt. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Charity dinner is about to begin I'm here Secretary Liu, your position is over there Brother Jin, please change your position Are you sure you want to give me the main seat? No organizer Let my leader always be good Next few lots This is a 10 carat diamond necklace provided by Youshi Group Starting price 3 million Each price increase shall not be less than 50,000 What's wrong It's a necklace I can't help He sold my mother's necklace Do you want to Where can I buy it? No. 4 3.5 million No. 1 4 million Yun Zhege How do you know I like this? Don't expect, don't go. No. 1 4 million 4 million once 4 million twice 4 million three times make a deal Ah, Brother Yun Ze My stomach hurts Let me call you Li Na You, you have a bad stomach Brother Yunze is our child You are pregnant before marriage my child Oh no, no need to call the doctor Are you okay? Ah, it hurts so much Li Ka-shing All have children Guan family's joy We can look forward to it Yes yes yes yes Your hot dish I'm sorry I was just too worried about the child just now I didn't expect to give it to Mr. Guan right away. I'm going back Wait and let Bones take you back. Why Is this the necklace I took just now? thank you cousin Thank you Wu Zhu come and give you hand this is for you This is a little surprise from the president Isn't this for Miss Li? The president originally took a photo of this and gave it to you. I wanted to give it to you personally Who knew that Ms. Li was caught? all of a sudden squeaking this is too expensive I can't have it Secretary Liu, just accept it. These things are a drop in the bucket for Mr. Guan. Oh, and there's a cake. Remember to eat Given by Guan Wish Guan Yunzhe good health Happy everyday Please please I hope my mother is in good health please please You like eating cakes very much Um Then you are a woman enough Everything will pass Yeah, so delicious tasty I am becoming more and more of a working person This smile is very mysterious cheers ah My longevity lock Not a necklace at all Quickly give the necklace to the lock I have a headache after hearing you scream all night Mom, why are you not in a hurry? tonight The whole Jiangcheng knows There is a child related to Yunzhe in your belly The young lady of the Guan family must be you Of course I'm not in a hurry About messing with his heart so what I thought he was originally a slum Now even the poor are worse off An illegitimate daughter Nothing to fear Waiting for a child next week All is well When will our company have such a beauty? Never seen it If you are really sexy, you are secretly sexy if you don't dress up Dressed up to be a show Who is not sexy in your eyes? Which department are you from? Dare to talk back to me President's Office ha You are that rubbish You also said you didn't come to Xuefei Secretary Liu dressed up like this today The single men in the group are all looking for information about you. real Secretary Liu, you are so beautiful today I almost didn't recognize you Where is You Yunmei? Get out of here The doctor cuckolded my son He was seriously injured and sent to the hospital. I have to fuck your ass today Where is You Mingmei? aunt This is Huarui Group You are responsible for making trouble who are you I'm looking for You Mingmei Auntie, she is you You Mingwei, this little bitch, actually blocked me You look for You Ming beautiful yes I'll help you You are You Mingmei Hum, she is really a vixen. Even if a man is tied up, he will dress up The previous timidity was just an act. what's wrong Let me tell you, your son has already cheated on you after you said that. He usually splashes dirty water on me You have no father, no mother, no talent and no status What's wrong with my son finding a spare tire? You're carrying someone else's bastard in your belly You are a real slut I already said that The child in my belly does not belong to another man It was a secret mistake made by the hospital Hey hey hey joke Take a look Your excuse Are you lying to a fool? Could it be that the child's father doesn't let you in? I don't want to defend you anymore It is his own fault that Shuhuan is in the hospital. It will be out in a month It turns out it was you who caused the security guard to go out. What are you doing? Let me go. Daddy's at my place How many lives will those who touch me lose? You are his boss, right? He cheated and retaliated My son, do you care? Your son is the Sapoda country Undead Team you You couple of bitches I want the child in your belly to die child Do not be afraid Don't be afraid, I'll deliver everything Heavy rain helps Yes Yes Zeng Ji Huarui guaranteed it, right? Guarantee Today Guarantee announcement of dismissal You Mingmei The patient was scheduled to undergo a termination of pregnancy tomorrow. I can schedule an operating room today. That works. Let him decide for himself Why not stay in hospital directly? How about it? Do you feel uncomfortable anywhere? The child is in pain How are the children? The child is fine The doctor just said You can have this surgery today. Don't cry Crying hurts your body. I don't know what happened today Suddenly I'm afraid my child will leave me You don't have to decide right away. How was it sacrificed? He said he won't do the surgery tomorrow. It would be best to take the child away today. I'm not on duty today. What if he doesn't miscarry? Are you a doctor or I am a doctor If you don't have a miscarriage, don't blame me I'm at my wits' end I'm looking for my fourth uncle President, please open it. President Don't you have an important meeting with the Ministry of Commerce today? Yes, it opened early in the morning. Mr. Guan, you are very busy. You don't have to come see me in person. I came here to get my mother's high blood pressure medicine. Thank you Mr. Guan You don't plan to have surgery? Um I grew up without a father or a mother. This child is a gift from God to me. You have to give birth to it and raise it yourself You can consider falling in love Normal marriage and childbearing Of course I've considered it. Otherwise, you wouldn't have done the pre-marital check-up? But you know the result. It's okay. I'm fine. Just a scumbag You don't have to overturn a boat. I don't care anymore Handsome Lin Why are you here? What are you doing here? I'm here for a prenatal checkup. Secretary You is injured. There's a little complaint Mr. Guan just came to visit me Mr. Guan, I'm fine now Can you accompany Ms. Li for a prenatal check-up? You're so hungry The first prenatal check-up for the child I'm scared alone Can I go out? Then take a rest I'll go out first It's not yours Don't want me to leave Where are you checking? Don't worry, let me take a look Yeah, it seems to be the same as number 4. I'm sorry Suddenly decided to change Ah, it's okay It's normal for you to change from time to time Come and take medicine Don't brag that a child hasn't been found yet. Well, that one should be on the 4th Yeah three What are you doing without registering? Didn't I register? You can't sleep if you think about my child being angry with you Why Ahem your child what happened to my child That kid of yours is normal Just don't take the medicine yet. All are tonics tonic What good tonics are available in the hospital? It is all acceptable I'll drive right away I'll make a call How long have I given you trash? No child can handle me. I didn't expect him to keep vomiting ah I stuffed my student's mouth into mine like this You have to spend money to play tricks Then I'll drag you to hell. Enter who is he Remember, he is the child in Liu Mingmei's belly. biological father I will make Yang Zhengmei regret it and pull it out early Who are you Hello, little sister My name is Qin Muchi The gold is mine So I am your child's winner or loser. Didn't it mean that we couldn't find volunteers? This man contacted Jin Zi himself a week ago Kong Zhao Why You had to abort the child before I respect your choice So there is no future Groom, you plan to give birth to this child So I have to be responsible for this child Mr. Qin's child is only mine You are not responsible ah Generally, this situation requires the two of you to communicate on your own. I still need to check the ward I'll leave first doctor can you stay with me rest assured This is a hospital Can't bother with work anymore Is the child okay? fine Mr. Qin, can you give me the child? I can sign an agreement with you The child is separated I will never hold you accountable in the future you misunderstood I'm not afraid of you blackmailing me In fact, I also like children very much My ex-wife and I have always had bad luck. He cheated on me The reason for me So I did it in a fit of rage. But I didn't expect The first time so what do you mean i want to marry you impossible Why You also dislike me for this I already have my Lord Why don't you marry me? Mr. Qin, please calm down first. How about we find a formal occasion? We can talk about any situation now Donor, you want to try Can I still do it? Ahhhhhhh you fucking bitch You have my revenge Why don't you give it to me? You even have the sperm of a man you don't know. Why are you pretending to be pure for me? you bitch this bitch Who are you What the hell do you have to do with me and my husband? no What happened This is where your hospital sits Just let some people in This is the biological father of both of you. No right to obstruct biological father The biological father can just let it in, right? Let me tell you my secretary Don't, don't, don't sue me I just know I have a child. You are still jealous My mother took a detour. Did you hear that? That's it. For the sake of the plate Come on, let him go. I seem to have done something wrong Maybe the case shouldn't be kept Girls let me act Didn't say I would get hurt Not to mention that I wanted to drink her to death Just a little bit He successfully miscarried. I'm three times more knotty than you I want ten times You really dare to ask Okay, I'll go over there tonight and lure Guan Yunzhe away. If you can't grasp this last chance I'll make you spit out all your money. Hey, I have something else to do tonight What do you want to see me for? things in your mouth Just go to the hospital to take care of your secretary? Li La told you Yunzhe You figure it out now The person who cares about the family is Li La Not a secretary mom Do you remember three years ago The man who was rescued from a strange mountain climbing situation I'm looking for him that's because you two Come with me and take the stuff from my trunk Miss Li, Mr. Guan asked us to guard the door. No leaving You know me How dare you not listen to me? Fire you now Don't worry, it only takes a few minutes It's that simple girl Well, she used to be quite simple. like him That child is yours I would rather Children are trash in the hospital master Guan Yunzhe Who said it at first? I won't be so eager to pull the secretary Even if he saved you before Wouldn't it be better to just give him money? Only Lila is qualified to be the official's daughter-in-law Mom, I have the final say over my wife. Lila gave birth to the child quietly Li Jia, I won't care I'm going to make him a demon again. bear daughter in law I am coming I want you interesting Don't be so nervous Didn't you say you wanted to chat? No need to stand still Miss help me Someone is chasing me, he's fine let me go let me go I'm helping you What are you struggling with? thank you This is my wife. Fear of examination So I let it go Don't stop, don't stop ah Ahhhh You stinky bitch Ahhhhh you What are you running for? Not satisfied? Or do you want the president to help you? Can you let me go about the child's matter? Is it because of the children? Can I knock it off? Last row Not this time Knock it off now 4 Brother Yunzhi, do you think I will come? Ah, call the doctor. Call the doctor quickly My head hurts so much Can't die Stop pretending I don't have anything at all Li Na You are quite brave I'm afraid of losing you First, he instigated my mother to lead me away Take me away again Two bodyguards were assigned to the ward What's your relationship with that guy? I don't know him at all I am also a victim Have you thought before you speak? My brain is also broken. Starting today, Huarui will divest all investments in the Li family Before Qin Wushi found Just wish yourself well. Do you think you can marry that woman without me? Stop wishful thinking She, an illegitimate woman, will never be able to get married in this life. Close the door Be careful with yourself ah How did you do things for me? Let him know I'm not pregnant. Because of Lin Muchi's matter I was admitted to a great country No right to check now But the child's father didn't say anything Don't even think about it Because of Lin Muchi's incident I was entered Big countries now have no right to conduct inspections But the child's father didn't say anything Don't even think about getting the woman I can't get. Kaneki, you mean the child's biological father? Not Jinmuchi He is divorced. But his ex-wife said he didn't have any children. Still here Very good Very good Boss, you are so kind to me. Who told you to be my secretary? Of course Then I'll let the child recognize you as his godfather Dry father mom Aren't you a vegetarian? Still drinking beer? No grandchildren left. No matter what vegetarian food I eat, it doesn't work Tell me about you So tall and handsome Why is your sperm so useless? Oh my god Can I live on my own? Finished I have consulted the master. The master said I have a grandson born in the Year of the Dragon It's okay if they're not my biological children. Dragon Treasure My baby dragon What's up? So happy My child is gone Your dad had a miscarriage. Alas, I'm not pregnant at all I go He faked the pregnancy to trick you. Charity auction He looks so similar when he holds his belly and screams looks like Fake to death My mother is drinking sad wine I'm embarrassed to talk happily on the screen So What about Li Jia? How to deal with it Exoneration I was planning to kill him again. My mother said she missed the old times So I left a rope This Mr. Li is really Why bother Come drink at my bar. Anyway, no children You put it first. Hey, what are you talking about? I'm not like that. Whether I have children or not, I will stick to the bottom line, okay? Speak Which one do you like? Yan Hui, your father have you seen It's him If I remember correctly She's not a pregnant woman. So every time I want to go further Blocked by reality Not knowing what women are Once you fall, you want the old house to be on fire snort So I want to ask you how to chase pregnant women Ahhh ah Well, I suggest you chase people with straight punches. This group of secretaries is chasing you You must like to chase people with a sense of security Oita in the way President Er, there will be a meeting Uh, do you have any important meetings around here? No, I came here specially to pick you up from the hospital. Why Get in the car Mr. Gu An, please take me home I'm really grateful It's alright. I'm here to pick you up. Is there any important work? I can go back to work tomorrow I will do my best for you. no job I'm here to inform you starting today I'm officially chasing you What Um It is recommended that you use straight pursuit You must like it Feel safe chasing General Guan I don't know who the biological father of my child is. There is a high probability that I will become a single parent in the future. Your pursuit is inappropriate What's not suitable I don't have any children now You are single too You give birth to the child and I will be the father. If you don't want to have a baby, that's up to you. I feel like vomiting My pursuit makes you want to vomit Please consider my pursuit. Sorry little brother My clothes are wet Can I go to your house and change clothes? Mr. Guan, this is the short-sleeved shirt I ordered from the takeaway just now. cheaper Don't dislike it fine That toilet is over there Oh, it's okay. Just change it here Like only call you Put me on directly Mr. Guan, are you available now? Not tomorrow. Then I will hang myself downstairs of the company tomorrow should be able to solve Come on Yo, Mr. Guan, you look younger in this outfit. Just say thank you Who wants to see it? Can't come, can't come, can't come Alas, it's always like this What about the overseas Kemei Group? Sent a subscription activity I need your feedback now I have sent the contract to your email Secretary Liu, please lend me your computer. oil secretary Ah, sorry Called the wrong person Just tell me, you scared me Most of the night How could you be at Secretary Oil's house? You can't do such disgusting things with such high moral integrity. What did I do? What is disgusting My thoughts are disgusting Fuck Feng Sanhaha Feng San, don't worry Everything I saw tonight I'll take it to my grave Don't worry about it Just reply like this first, okay? Nagude helps you Let me find you a cleaner No, I need something on my hands Only then can we forget those 10 seconds just now Is this person your mother? to my mother Used to be a nurse You two look so alike. Tell me about what's going on downstairs. When my mother was a nurse Like a patient My biological father There are jewellery lovers After a few months of dating My mother found out she was cheated. Mobilizing families My mom doesn't want to destroy his family. He left with me still in his belly. Until he became seriously ill Maybe it's because of my mom. I have a good impression of medical care. So even if you become pregnant due to an accident You don't want to hold the doctor accountable either. It's not easy for them to work Are you having a good time at You's house? It's okay they let me go to school Also covers my daily expenses Until my mother died I left the You family. I saved money for several years to give it back to them. Although they may not care about my money You don't owe Mail anything Including You Zhiqiang If he is PUAing you Just call back. I won't fight back Didn't you kill me in an elevator before? Come, I'll teach you If someone pulls you You turn around and grab his arm. Come at him first you try So why not just do this? President, are you okay? fine Nothing at all I can do it myself Because it was a sneak attack I'm usually not weak. thank me Give me a hand Miss Li, what do you want from me? Amway, come to Hua Ruizhi I used to work in big factories. Have rich work experience Do you feel aggrieved to be in the Propaganda Department now? China Resources is developing rapidly Now it is a leading enterprise in the foreign trade industry I don't feel wronged Then let me put it another way Being pushed down by the incompetent vagrant media Are you convinced? Of course I'm not convinced He is an outsourced person bachelor degree Why should you replace me? This is why Yao Mingwei came to power He seduces my man I need your help to destroy him. Why didn't Ms. Li take action herself? Isn't he just a little secretary? I'm pregnant with Lin Zhe's child Need to stay in hospital not very convenient You are going to be the mistress of Huarui certainly So you helped me get this done. The future announcement is you make a deal He still has the nerve to come to work Pregnancy out of wedlock I was unhappy and cheated on my ex-boyfriend Huarui does not cook vegetables Dissatisfied Sure enough, he has a skill His former supervisor Ma Jie He was fired as soon as he came back from a trip. There is also a little news. The child is the president's The child is not Guan's. If you have any questions, you can ask me in person. Or report the evidence related to the rumor. I don't work, right? What nonsense Sister Bai Li, do you have anything to ask of me? Please don't get in my way. Bring it to the publicity department for a meeting. There's nothing wrong with that. I checked it three times. Are your hands cold? Needless to say Let's try the cup of coffee you sent first good Hey, your old tree is blooming Dress so young Secretary You bought a piece for 29 Don't you never wear clothes priced below RMB 20,000? Why You know shit Sometimes This 29 piece is more comfortable than the 20,000 yuan piece It's not pure cotton and it's drier I've bought you clothes It proves that your progress in chasing people must be very gratifying. The timing was not very good. If your pursuit has a secretary, then you don't take it seriously at all. how do you know Because your face is full of failure Waste regret I must confess today Hey Secretary Liu meet again Hello Mr. Qin Lin Zhe, please continue. How is the meeting preparation going? All ready Just waiting for you to come over Brother Jin, you go first. I won't send you off. Secretary That 29 short sleeve is ready you go first I'll be there in a minute Yes It's time to start Secretary You You give me the plan It became your forced palace photo This is not what I did Then you say Is that you in the picture? it's me But Mr. Guan There is always an unwritten rule around you A secretary who has ulterior motives for you You will put it in the publicity department, right? yes that seduce you The oily secretary wagging her tail at you He also has to be kicked out of the president's office otherwise The company will say you are biased I will leave the secretarial department immediately besides Mr. Guan never responded to my behavior Waiting for you to fall into my hands I make you want to die every day in the company But I was the one who seduced Secretary You. What It was me who took the initiative to arrange a meeting with Secretary You on the weekend Right here on the picture I am the one who actively offers my attention and wags my tail If I had a tail Oh, I liked him first. So I will definitely be biased. What should I do? But he has children so what If he agrees to be with me The child is mine too. I see you are not in the mood to continue discussing the plan. Today's farce I will arrange for the security department to investigate. Those who cheat will pay the price Let's go, Secretary Luo so what have you thought of What I just said be my girlfriend Don't be impulsive I have a father I don't know whose child it is Family background is not good either Not pretty either Think about it again in my eyes you are enthusiastic Very good to colleagues You look good. You look good with or without makeup. are you brave Do you still remember the people you rescued while climbing three years ago? it's me You mean you were the person I saved three years ago? I met Li Shiliu at that time Phone is broken body temperature is good I thought I was dead. You saved me. But anyone passing by will save him. I do not care It's only you who saved me I'm not as good as you say. You have many more people to choose from If you want to choose I had already posted it when those secretaries posted it Just follow it only like you I Hey, your hand sanitizer is pretty good. can you give it to me Singh I have to ask about this crappy hand sanitizer. Really? Let me ask. He is the one I saved. Mr. Wake Up Mr. gentlemen Sir, wake up Sir I want to agree But I am Guan Yunzhe's mother Let's meet Yes, ma'am. Will be splashed with water? Or fill out a check online Secretary Liu We meet again You are much more beautiful than before Thank you for the compliment Waiter pouring water I just want to see The woman who obsessed my son Who is this person? Secretary Yang You drink some water I see you seem very nervous. I thought the earring fell off Then I won't turn the corner Ask you directly your academic qualifications Undergraduate Ordinary What about your family? I have no father or mother There is a 12-year-old piglet in her belly without a father. I won't pity you. But there seems no need to ask again Secretary Liu is a smart man I'm sure you can understand what this means I can't accept this money But I also understand your attitude. This is for babies from now on Just accept it It's not easy being a single mother Me too treat yourself better Eat something good with your baby Thank you It's alright You can come to see me at home Like baby dragon Waiter takes order Is this a sign of me? Auntie, let me take a call Don't agree to anything my mother says The president's wife gave me a sum of money Don't charge me twice or three times Look at the thickness, it's 30,000 My mother is really stingy, what else? My wife asked me to go home to spend more time with him. He said the money was for the children. Then you guys have a good chat I'll give you leave this afternoon Why These two mother and son really look alike I said, why don't I see anything going well today? It's you again, little bitch I let you go I said you are always worthy of being a hero in front of me Get down on your knees and shine your shoes now If you need someone to kneel down Then you go and die At that time, some people will kneel down you are crazy Didn't you have a lot of fun working as a servant? I was told I don't owe you a family If you have any dissatisfaction, go to your dad It's him who is so heartless Put your hat on If someone pulls you You turn around and grab his arm. A belly is boiling first Ahahaha Need help What's going on here Auntie, this lady fell down I care about her Yeah You dare to hit me Dare to touch my people You are so bold! You are What's the relationship with him? It's been many years No one asked me to introduce myself. I am Chairman of Huarui Group Chairman of China Resources Group ah you She is the female stock god whose investment success rate is as high as 100% Ah, the female stock god Too ugly Auntie, I am You Zhiqin, the daughter of Youshi Jewelry. I saw you when I was a kid oh snort When I'm disabled, I don't look as good as when I was a kid. This is You Minmei behind you She is my half-illegitimate daughter Used to it since childhood It's going to be a lie Don't interrupt me because it's not your turn to do anything. Even if your father travels to the east You have no qualifications in front of me Sorry girl Not again next time Aunt me I said I have no father or mother Just don't want to Let Dongyuan be the father I know you're not a bad boy Otherwise, you wouldn't have saved me son Come over and have a meal I go first mom How can I drink liquor today? Tell me about you There are so many women to choose from Why did you choose an illegitimate daughter? He couldn't choose his life experience And the wrong thing is to pretend to be single to deceive women forever I understand the reason I'm just afraid that he can't suppress the rumors in Jiangcheng. Then I'll press it myself Crown You are not here to give me instructions, are you? A bit Well, then you can send me an email There will be a party tomorrow i hope you will belong Is the company officially announcing any new products? It's about my life events Liu Minmin, thank you for being my fiancee Aunt agrees with us I go I want to be your fiancee You should be happy to see me fired, right? No I still remember being here two months ago I asked you not to pretend You must be seducing Mr. Guan Ah, what did you say? You said you would never participate in the selection of concubines You can't possibly like him. Do you need me to congratulate you now? Now I can still tell you firmly I never seduced him. I wouldn't be happy if you got fired. Because we are just colleagues I wish you can find a better job goodbye Little manager ah It was he who instructed you I won't say much else. he won't say anything Why are you looking for me? Today's official dinner I need you to take me in. I heard that Huarui withdrew the consul's investment It seems that you were indeed kicked out by Guan Yunzhe There's a baby in this belly No. I just had a little conflict with him I just want to talk to him tonight about the benefits. Your Li family has been crushed by our You family before. I look down on you Now the backer is gone How can you call me Bai Zuo Shi? Tonight's official dinner Guan Yunzhe wants to officially announce his fiancee And this person is your sister You Mingmei What He's not just a bitch have to say He You Mingmei has some tricks to hook up with Guan Yunzhe obsessed with him Want to take my place You probably don't want to see him marry into a top family. Stand on your head. What should you do? Mr. Liu, long time no see. This is your family's treasure. As outstanding as his mother It was fresh before It would be better if I could be half as steady as my wife. ah Just grow up Today the government invites all our families to attend the dinner Do you know why? I heard that there is an official announcement of a fiancee. I don't know which girl she is from. fiancee's words Is it Li La, the daughter of the Li family? Oh my life is so good I got pregnant with Mr. Guan's child first Now I have to enter Guan's house again The Li family is soaring into the sky That's right Life is indeed good If you had Li La's vision, Dad will be satisfied dad Don't be sorry This fiancee really may not be able to enter the Guan family. what do you know You'll know once you see his face. clear Good evening, everyone. Welcome everyone to my engagement party good This is my fiancee Liu Mingmei I disagree My family's marriage Naturally, my family will decide whether to marry or not. Qiu Zhiqiang It's not your turn to interrupt at the official dinner, so hurry up and go You Mingmei is my half-sister Why should I leave? how far Your daughter was at my engagement party Don't take me seriously You are really destiny it's me How did you marry Guan Yunzhe? you are not me Shouldn't be poor. Alone and helpless? Excuse me I let you down I'm doing very well What nonsense are you talking to him about? Don't you know? This woman is the mistress's child His mother seduced my father Give birth secretly Want to come back again Want my family's property ridiculous would rather die early Why the hell do you dare to hit me? You have rewarded me for ten years This rotten man Lie to my mother Let you rely on him to bear the responsibility Insult me and torture me everywhere I won't tolerate you anymore You told me earlier If I had told you, I would have fought ten years ago Stop being embarrassed Yao Dongyu The people you raise should also be well managed. After all, she is also your sister. I became fatherless and motherless 5 years ago Where did the sister come from? bitch Just like your mother Seductive bitch Youjing is still a bitch I will let Youshi have fun in Jiangcheng today. General Guan My eldest daughter is going to marry you. Stop bragging, okay? My wife said he wanted to be without a father or a mother That's it Mr. Liu, please don't bother with the travel expenses. etc. You Mingmei is pregnant with another man's child To my fiancee that is Children's full moon wine Please practice There is only one child between me and him If I can always lose alright Stop messing around Dad, just let an illegitimate daughter marry Guan Yunchang Why should he It's because your mother and I have spoiled you too much We can't afford to offend the national security family They are all good officials. Where are we? We have always Who do you think you can rely on? Isn't it the China Resources Group and other trade giants? You two can have another child in Guan's family. Why should we worry about not having development channels? you mean Let me try to please that cheap minister Zhao Jinwen in the future. Just beg him He won't protect it either I won't even care about you The gap will become wider and wider Think about it carefully Why don't you give me the car keys? Take it well Give me the key Oops, I drank a bottle How to get drunk So happy Intoxicated Sister-in-law, I'm leaving first There's another one It's okay, you can go I will take good care of her Take it easy What are you doing Ms. Guan You Mrs. Guan is here Your mother Where is my aunt? Mrs. Guan is waiting for you plz follow me It's me, Yunran roll I know it's because of the kids. If I had your child You won't abandon me Now that you have a child I won't marry you Don't struggle We drugged the wine tonight. Where is You Mingmei? I've also found someone to handle it. Don't worry, no one will disturb me from giving birth. Wang Laowang Brother, please open the door Could it be that he was trying to lure the tiger away from the mountain? Is there anyone? Open the door. Is there anyone there? I'm not good at beheading rats. Give me another chance Open the door, is there anyone? This hand sanitizer came back so late I went so intensely Qin Ze Save Me Why Why Why He, You Mingmei, can have your child, but I can't You might as well enjoy it instead of struggling man I advise you not to be ungrateful. hair You dare to touch my people? I Going to sister-in-law will give you good physical strength Do you still dare? Don't dare anymore Sister-in-law, come here first and take care of your man. Walk I know there's a room to go to ah Oh My God I'll leave that one first. Uh, I'll take you to get a tattoo, eh? So I beg What's wrong? I'm relieved to see it's you. I have a nightmare Li La haunts me like a sex demon I keep looking through it to no avail Is it possible that this is true What Last night, you were drugged and almost lost your virginity. And I save like a hero It's scary. Wake up. Oops, it's ready Get up quickly Today is a working day. Sleep after sleep If I go back, I will leave home. Lila didn't know why I feel so resentful for not having a child. Maybe I will have the same lifespan as him. Only he can't get pregnant. Please Artificial insemination The chances of pregnancy are low I checked less than 10%. I seemed to hear him say something yesterday How come You Weiwei Are you saying that the surprise I gave me three months ago was yours? Just your little kid You're crazy. Please drive slower. I immediately went crazy Brake failure What am I asking you? Hold on a little longer We'll get married when we get out. Don't worry too much about the patient's current condition. Improved stability We strive for protection of all Should I follow up with the doctor? Miaomiao, I'm waiting for you This is the last chance If you can't do it, you'll die with me. You asked me to find Qin Muchi Already found He explained that except for Lila There was also a female doctor working with him. etc. turn around Is there anyone else? I'm going to replace me I'll ask the director you seem scared No Mr. Guan If it's okay, I'll go back first to check the ward and wait. I don't know why I saw this face of yours I decided to re-investigate 3 months ago The Stubbornness of Artificial Life I was wrong, please forgive me this time. You said You Mingmei was pregnant with your child what does it mean I was so sleepy. I should have checked the name first. No, it's You Mingmei He said it wrong while he was asleep The name is him I gave him your mirror you did something wrong artificial insemination The child Yu Ming remembers is me right I thought I would fail But no one will know Didn't expect he would succeed Then later Is the frame-up of You Mingwei unsupportable? He threatens my future and I can't help it A girl because of your negligence Pregnant with a child I shouldn't have She didn't even blame you How can you bear to continue hurting her? good I see you together I wanted to confess But Li La wouldn't let him call the police Is it done? Is the child gone? Li La You wait for me well at Li's house I have the ability to deal with you honestly pick up Fan Yunzhe wouldn't care about face, right? He can't possibly eradicate our Li family, right? Mom, you don't know him at all He will leave quickly and leave quickly Where do you want to go in such a hurry? I take my mother on a trip Excuse me Miss Li, your itinerary needs to be changed. from now on You and your mother are not allowed to step out of the Li family How can a little assistant like you stop me? With your Li family I want to be a performer Miss Li, you still don't understand our president. You will feel much better if you see me. Guard all exits of the Li family How did that happen This child's life is miserable carrying your baby But was replaced by Li La And was humiliated in every possible way I should have been nicer to him last time After dinner with him mom you are already good The doctor said he just suffered a blow to the head The situation is not serious You just need to rest and you'll wake up The baby is also very healthy He's also strong and will be fine It's just the Li family's business I may not be able to send it according to your idea. Leela and his mother both had it to blame What about Have you thought it through? You say it yourself or we say it Brother Ying, I don't want this. Blame it on fate Why I thought You will blame the doctor Blame your mother I didn't expect it was God. That was the accident If life is pregnant Then this won't happen. I tell you Even if you have children I still only love Yao Mingmei You don't love me that much I just don't want to be degraded to the point where you look down on me I love you If I don't love you I won't do stupid things Please give me another chance. The money is not worth it because you hired it. I just asked him to be a homeless person and buy shoes. Father He played too much. He is a pervert Ellie's slander is also supported by you. he's so stupid I thought with those photos He will quietly force me away Unexpectedly, I was separated by you instead. last question Who is the brake? It's not me. I love you so much. How could I be willing to kill you? Fingerboard He said he won't let you regret it I can handle the finger piano Doesn't Qin Muchi cooperate with you perfectly? I'll let him talk to you. no no He's a pervert. Why This is unbearable This is just the humiliation you inflict on You Mingwei. rest assured besides Ahhh ah Good Go and call the Yujie woman over I want to see them Mr. Guan, what do you want us to do? This porridge is not as delicious as Mingmei's. Yes Yes Mingmei mentioned that we wanted to see me? Seeing you just makes me sick Liu Zhiqiang Are you surprised to see me? No We want to see you too late How could it be a surprise? Liu Dongyuan Your good daughter After the dinner that day, my car was tampered with Probably because he doesn't want to see me and my temper anymore. impossible Is there some misunderstanding here? The car was clearly captured on surveillance camera. You still want to quibble real Dad, I was confused for a moment. snort You are a nobody. How could I have a daughter like you? I didn't ask you to come here to watch a family drama. Otherwise, I will directly massacre the treasures that have market value. Cut yourself off again Let you disappear directly in Jiangcheng I can never go back again Come on, please show mercy. The Rong family has been my 30 years of hard work. I'd trade him for it You can ask him to do whatever you want. Dad, I am your biological daughter. shut up Liu Shuai is my hard work Liu Zhiqiang, did you see it? In his eyes You are useless. There is no difference between garbage that can be thrown away at will Blood and bones must be sacrificed it is as expected No, I'm the only one in the You family's eye. Don't you like cutting skirts very much? Show me today Don't you like cutting skirts very much? Come Show me today Put it on, put it on, put it on, haha Bitch Wearing a skirt to look pure You're seducing men like your mother, right? The third child You can only wear mediocre clothes in front of me I don't want it I don't want it I want to run away from here I'll get you out of your house right away. Liu Meimei is right You're a rotten man. The clothes you need to wear are ready for you. Put it on quickly Does it look good? Go away your mother Hahahahahaha Mr. Wan, look Things have been done as you said Will I give you the evidence of his harm to our You family? Make him pay the price As for Youshi I won't interfere but Huarui will stop doing any missions under Yushi forever All the spirit that exists Can I recognize the ghost text? Let him enter the You family's genealogy In the future, there will always be people saying that he had an illegitimate daughter As long as we can continue to cooperate The You family's home is nothing. He will become Hua Rui's mistress. Who dares? Liu Tongyuan and Huarui will not be so dangerous If something happens to your jewelry, it will be investigated again. you what do you know what do you know What a coincidence I took this photo by Wei Mingwei You gave him a diamond necklace. I'll just keep an eye on you. The color of the diamond necklace has a problem This necklace was given to you by You Dongyuan right This necklace was given to my mother by You Dongyuan Token of Love He said it was a diamond mined from the You family's mine Much more valuable than the market If I'm not mistaken This is a defective diamond. There may also be radiation Well, I can take the fingertips back. Um Your jewelry is radioactive. I hope you can get in. good less stuff you Um what are you doing My head still hurts a little bit How is the child? Of course the child will follow me, true or false You are very good at putting gold on your face tell you good news The girl's biological father Did you have a checkup after your car accident? Is there any sequelae after this, doctor? Li La stole my parent-child organization three months ago But the doctor did the wrong thing Quit me So the biological father of my child is you Do you believe it? It's all because of you that I sleep I became a single mother at the age of 27 I have to work and raise a baby So tortured Why is it so different from what I imagined? Wait, you go out again during work. No need to work overtime alright Girls represent you Doctor you I feel too much doctor doctor He is really on the run Not an ordinary person But Introducing the feeling What's wrong Yunzhe, what's wrong with you? Auntie, he feels it It was very touching to start Hahaha oops You're a grown man and you won't cry like this, right? You would have moved back then This is the prenatal checkup report Take a look okay Ouch ouch From the inspection results, it seems that there is no big problem You can go home and recuperate this week. think so Could it be that he cried harder? It doesn't matter, many people will cry Um Baby, your lost father seems to be an idiot. sorry It was my mistake that caused you to suffer these injuries I'm really sorry Is that what you want to tell me? just one time I want to confess But my mother is a doctor From small to large I even think you look good in white coats particularly sacred You told me that the child was an accident He even told me that the biological father of the child had been found. I believe that I will take the medicine you give me. I was wrong. I have had nightmares every day for the past 4 months. I dreamed you were The hospital asked me who the father of my child was. I'm sorry I've been through the rural life. It's my home. I misread the name Artificial monitoring of you Manual monitoring So whose child is this? It's all over. You're on your own. I wish you happiness No What I was discharged from the hospital in the afternoon. Let's celebrate childish Hey, wait a minute, do you want to make a wish? don't want Go pick it up No need to be pretty Babies can be healthy and happy Hey, wait a minute Wish Youweiwei everything goes well Make others cheaper organic Mom, let's go home I want myself back You don't want me anymore Hello What are you doing, my dear brother? I've been in a daze for half an hour. What has been brewing for so long? I have a child again I go You're pregnant again What are you saying? I didn't say that. Scare me I know you are a responsible person. Secretary You's child is your child. I mean You Mi is the baby in the belly and the mother Ha ha ha ha You're crazy about your child. The baby in his belly is yours. I'll call you fulfill your wish No, so the one who talks about artificial insemination is Secretary Oil. This Li La was also deceived by the doctor call daddy Oh, mom, I wish I were lucky It's not love with your son or daughter Um Louder! Dad! How cool to listen to It's not the person you like who is pregnant with your child Why are you looking so sad? Yes, a woman who has had children. Go home to your own home instead of mine You said she is really good So stupid She asked you out, so go. Isn't it over if you keep pestering me? It's time to ask someone to help. Don't push me. Hello I'm here to take care of pregnant women Since you don't want to live in my house Then it shouldn't matter if I move here, right? My house only has one floor It does not matter, I do not mind can live together I'll get you a quilt Hey, I'm your boss I don't have one at home The ugly duckling is getting ready to leave Suddenly there was a big hunting dog Why can't you sleep in the living room again? I'm here to make my own home for my son. The big hunting dog sticks out its long red tongue The long red tongue of the big hunting dog is so handsome The ugly duckling thought This guy is going to be eaten by a big-faced dog unexpectedly The big-faced dog ate it ah I don't want dad to go OK, I'll give you daddy's money You still have plenty of reasons? no way I know Come back to your hometown with me tomorrow After this house is sold There will no longer be a place for our Li family in Jiangcheng. Blame me If I didn't understand it, what kind of bullshit Bible would you do? You won't flatter yourself Even if I win or lose, I won't admit defeat. It's my daughter's fault hello everyone I'm Linda I just joined the President's Office today Please take care of me in the future. Uh hi Hello, Leader I am Secretary You I'm here to hand over the financial report to you. Oh, Hello You are pregnant still working Well, isn't that the case for everyone? It's not time to give birth yet Your husband is really inconsiderate. I usually earn less Keep collecting work. Hello, President I am Linda Wow, so handsome What flavor of coffee do we usually drink? Latte with more ice and less sugar Usually before a few hours It's always 10 p.m. Recently it's 6 o'clock What kind of woman does he like? Well sorry Oh, I heard about this That woman is pregnant Our family members Someone attended my wedding reception She is said to be a pretty illegitimate daughter. You just think that these women are pregnant with other men's children Sooner or later the audience will dislike him Oh, it seems like my sister is very confident. Oh, that's natural My family background, education, and everything are better than that woman's Besides, I'm still clean. Ditch that pregnant woman Hey, hey, don't, don't, don't I didn't tell you fine I wish you success and bye Are you there on the 40th floor? You wait for me Why is he ignoring I just want him to rely on me Move in with me Why does he have to live in that rental house? Hey, madam, it's not your character Oh, I really miss him when he was so silly before. It turns out that Guan Tong likes idiots such as Bai Tian I'm sorry I'm a little silly It's okay, just pick it up Then I'll sort it out again This showed him I didn't expect to recruit one It's okay to be like this if you're so stupid You shouldn't think anything of me My wife won't be upset either. Kill two birds with one stone Why don't you pay attention to me? This will definitely leave a deep impression on him How do you use the software? Sorry Sister Mei I just accidentally messed it up I'm sorting it out now What's going on? Are you okay? My knee hurts. No wonder my friends say I'm stupid. Like a silly white sweet This Linda is silly Be careful Don't get hit by him. He is very agile in front of me ah ah white shoes Just wait for me Who doesn't know our relationship? Hold hands Hey, hold it, hold it, hold it Mr. Wen President, what's wrong with you? Just drink if you have nothing to do Then let me fan you fan Sorry, I'm a little impatient Let's go then treasure Secretary You, are you going to leave with Mr. Guan? I'll take Secretary You home. My car was sent in for maintenance. Can I get in the car with you too? not very convenient But why can Secretary You Ok The fiancee is You Mingmei Britain I'm sorry, Mei. I really do not know It's ok, just focus on your work There is no such thing as a fool in the workplace Oh, there's a mouse. where is the mouse Rat my snack was eaten It must have been a rat. Okay, I'll go down and call security now. Just clean it up Serve the bubbles first Strange Why does it smell like mouse? It seems like I haven't seen a mouse in years. Sister Mingmei, you also need to go to the toilet. Everyone in the upper class was discussing the engagement party Said there is still Cinderella in the 21st century But I think it's fake With a pair of glass slippers, I want to be the prince's bride I thought it was the British royal family? Ah, Sister Meimei Do you think the glass slipper is in your belly? You can give it back to me if you want. I don't think the price is too high. Tomorrow, sister, you must protect your fragile heart. If it breaks Your fairy tale dream is over Hello Auntie, there is a limit to your laziness. This hygiene is completely unqualified What are you doing standing still? It's almost time to go pack it up quickly. This is Huarui It's not your turn to point fingers. Meimei is just a cleaner. You shouldn't Besides, maybe he was the one who released the mouse. I am strict and responsible to everyone. Auntie, are you okay? Why don't you go in and wipe it? Huarui's cleaning staff also put on heavy makeup So fashionable Little bitch, I'm going to make you go to the toilet today. What is going on? President's Office Linda was found fainted in the bathroom I heard that he was lying in the bathroom because he was so hungry. All water on my body His mental state doesn't seem normal. But it's too late to wake him up You're fine Madam, it's okay. He came out before the leadership The guarantee has been fully issued To prevent people from mixing with society Judged early General Corps I went to the finance department. What happened? Let someone take Lina to the hospital No one to date I'm in the company, ok wait for me a while Go, Xiaomei You go to the parking lot What's wrong with going to buy a car? Don't move, I'll let you pick it Give birth now Liu Wei is in the house The place to go is How did you get in on weekdays? What did he tear? Why are you painting? The museum is closed to see you. It was you who made me dizzy and dizzy. I originally wanted to pretend to be close early I didn't expect to be hired by that concubine. But I have drank a lot of water for him I will never sneer again Ah you are crazy I'm mad all for you You can't escape him Yuzhe is okay, okay Just frightened The baby and I are fine Probably not Alarm handling I have asked the group lawyer Involved in Li Jia's case We will handle it in the strictest way. Linda has submitted a resignation report For the sake of his reputation, he decided not to pursue Li Jia's fault anymore. But I heard that Linda's family conditions are unusual. He seems to be killing Li Jia's last property. It saves me having to do it I have something to do Ah, you mean How to let everyone in the company know Secretary You's baby is I told you at the engagement party and at the company I will treat this child as mine The result is something you didn't expect This child is really yours. It's hard to think so much in advance. Oh, I thought of the power of gossip Have you heard? Secretary Liu The baby in my belly is actually the CEO. Ah, it doesn't mean that the child is someone else's. The president threw him down because he loved him too much. You're the previous version. The latest version In fact, it was Mr. Guan's mother who disagreed. Then I dare not say it is a prison for unmarried people Oh my god, this is wonderful Guan is responsible. First time hearing this version I just saw in the group that Secretary Wu has an abscess in his stomach You just know it It's not right for him to fancy the president. I'm at the company When did you get such positive reviews? President, rest assured Everything went according to plan The whole company already knows Secretary You is your child's biological mother. Oops, doesn't every company have several small groups? I found a few people. Spread it in the group Your love story with Secretary You Of course Xue Wei's exaggeration was a bit exaggerated. Hum for less than half a day The whole company knows, right? Xiao Qiao paid a 20% deposit to sign that day Thanks Mr. Wei I will go to the company to spread the news about your care for employees. Stories about respecting elders That's not necessary. I still want to keep it a little mysterious. How do you plan to deal with the relationship between Jiang Cheng and the major families? President, this one You won't know I have the most complete list of gossip kings in Jiang Cheng Luxury Hall and Chess Room Come and listen It's simple As long as you let those gossipy ladies Let me tell you about your love and hatred with Secretary You. Then they dispersed You will know the whole city in 2 hours. You want to know this gossip? A 40% pay raise can make people happier than hearing it in person Whoever gets a raise Of course it's my good Help you without suffering Today I found a capable person around me Can capture Jiangcheng According to the selection of the Finance Department I personally like Ha ha It's really weird. I suddenly discovered My company has actually started to gain a good reputation. And everyone seems to know The child in our belly is our biological child. Of course it's a good sign for me Wu handles He said that his ex-husband was in many groups Today I was given a performance of civet cat changing tire The prince's daughter so In everyone's mind, the child is registered in your household. I'm already planning to let the innocent take off the wedding curse him value But the wedding has to be postponed no You should ask What happened to Lira I'm still a little worried I think the baby is relatively warm after birth The wedding can be postponed You have to move into my house no Why After I came out of the oil price I've been living in that house. It's been 5 years A bit reluctant Are you afraid of change? A little bit That's okay, I'll stay with you all the time But I'm asking for it OK, no problem I go out to work I want a raise too What a pity Could it be that the rental house was rented out? Think of it as your own home Hey Goode, I want to buy a house. Let me show you the address. dad Aging water pipes Water leaks all the time I put tape on Should be able to stop for a while The house is not new to begin with And my lease is for 5 years There's no way to decorate it either It's indeed an old house Then decorate it The landlord is an old couple They said they would wait until the children return to China before moving in It's okay, eat it. Then buy it. Don't look at this house. It's not big. It's really not cheap The card I gave you has 50 million every month. You can't buy it That's for the kids. I won't move My salary is just enough for me alone So what is this Your nest can be decorated later You bought it Mr. Guan, this is my name I'm not interested in small houses Since you don't want to move away Then buy it to give you an impression Why can't you cure me? I should be nice to my wife Besides, the money has to be spent. I didn't marry you because of the child Simply because hey We hugged each other on the mountain road three years ago Are you a gift from my mother? Yes, it was my aunt who came to see me. So you have to use it well. Don't be reluctant My mother is the most beautiful Maybe it's because you're handsome. Of course I am the first choice in Jiangcheng District All the fighters like me How about finding someone to listen to the lecture? Tomorrow, accompany me to see my mother and then Hey mom, I have good news for you. I have a name now My daughter, you are here. Why do you still have bodyguards with you? I'm not familiar with Mr. You You should find someone to protect yourself. But your biological father Don't be kidding Have you forgotten what Sister Mei said? How can you Why are you so sloppy here? She doesn't look like a proper girl. Dad is not Don't call me dad Remember I provide you with food and drink I'm just worried that you might threaten the dominant people. Call me first-born from now on Okay Mr. Yao no father I have already paid back all the money that the You family raised me over the years. You have nothing to do with me If you believe it, you must bear your responsibility The reason is because my mother loved you back then She had already seen it clearly before she died leave this letter Just to remind you not to fall in love Women should not trust men Why marry Guan Yunchang Can't you just use him to take revenge on me? you are so funny You think too little of yourself, too. You are completely different from him You are not a man at all The one who surpasses you are not like your mother She is very gentle It was you who killed me That disgusting feeling If you want to die, come find me again. Wouldn't it just be a more miserable death? You should be happier without me. son Master, you must behave well. With your conditions, you can definitely win the Xinda Food Group Hit that Yumingmei's face haha Don't worry, Mom no woman can Qiu Mingmei It's impossible that this beauty is pregnant But the figure and grooming are very good How could that bumpkin Qiu Mingmei be her? I didn't eat enough cake last time. Have you had plastic surgery? No need for plastic surgery But you have straight hairline What nonsense are you talking about? My natural hairline almost reaches my eyebrows Who is Auntie's target this time? This is really ugly to say. With my son's excellent conditions Finding a daughter of equal status is very tiring You are the mistress with a big belly Oh, it's not easy. With bodyguards It's really confusing. Ms. Huang, I am Shuhuan's mother. In what era do you still bring your mother to a blind date? My mother passed by I'll be leaving soon. Hello, Madam Guan What a coincidence, you are here too Who is concerned Madam Guan is too rustic Now Jiang Chen Who doesn't know who Mr. Huarui Guan's wife is? She married into Guan Guan's family Yes, we got the certificate. Mr. Guan from Huarui Knowing that you are pregnant with someone else's child Isn't he crazy to marry you? He is you crazy The child in Mr. Guan's belly belongs to Mr. Guan How is this possible? Damn it I'm going to ask MAS to introduce me to my blind date aunt now. Mother and daughter, please take it It's hereditary, right? Don't delay my beauty treatment Mrs. Guan Shao Go shopping together when you have time Ms. Huang from Xinda Food I'll wait for you next time What charm do you have to marry into an official family? Maybe it's because of confidence Just like your son No man can resist my charm Another relative Let's go Lord Wu I heard that you have the most complete gossip network of famous families in Jiangcheng. Help me kill a mother and son in the circle they can Why can't my son? I'll find an agent to choose a better daughter for you right away. When you talk to them Just say you are the wife of Mr. Guan from Huarui Group. White Moonlight Mom is smart That I can be very successful in the upper class circles. ah Hello, Mrs. Li, how dare you call me? You caused me to be ridiculed by the upper class What's wrong, Ms. Feng? It is said that your mother and son's stuttering is hereditary. Don't listen to their nonsense We are very normal Hey, normal I'll let my son show you a jingle Hey, listen to this Hey, the bench is long and the shoulder pole is wide Why Bench Now some ladies say that you and your son are a pair of slippery snakes. Sharpening the knife to drill into us Your Shu family has been banned no son We're done now Mother I heard that you met Shuhuan in the afternoon I met you when I was traveling to Dongyuan Just block them within the circle Shuhuan's mother wants to hurt my son I will ruin the rest of his son's life son's future Nothing wrong with my wife sounds tell you Husband, I learned this from you Let's go have dinner with my mother tomorrow. I heard you're about to give birth When I want to have grandchildren in my belly Take a picture as a souvenir Husband, you're afraid you won't have time to eat. I slept with my waist broken No, no, I'll just call the hospital. Wife, I apologize. You have to be strong Don't cry, don't cry Oh, what's up? Go in again Don't worry, don't be afraid. During the prenatal checkup, the doctor said that the baby's fetal position was very normal. It's okay. It's okay. How is the doctor? Mother and child are safe You can go to the hospital room first to do it Oh thank you doctor Hey, son, son Doctor, how is he? Go to the stressful work quickly In the bed next to yours. Slower My wife has worked hard. Oops, stop looking. In the incubator. A solid boy. Honey, I put away the pills. Hey, stop playing with your phone You should really let those beauties fight for you and be jealous Heroes take a look What has become of the man they love most? It doesn't matter what they think of me Right, sister-in-law is not at home Come have dinner with us Start being a strong woman My sister-in-law is enterprising Very good. I can help you do it together. Lubricant By the way, what's the baby's name? On the subway Should I call her Guan Aimei or Guan Mu? Not a boy? It's not just boys It is the crystallization of love for Yuan Mingmei And you, my child's elder brother has a banquet for his first birthday tomorrow Why am I the kid's brother? Because you call me dad Shut up and say goodbye Are you going tomorrow? It depends on my mood Why don't you come to my gathering? Your ex-girlfriend is in a meeting Qin Ge left very early Hurry up and go back to the divination Prepare for my son Oh hey Is the baby good? The baby is very good I'm also very good Um Reward unexpected children Bring the shadow of my life