Translator: Leonardo Silva So, have you ever had this experience? You're having a chat with someone and they're telling you something or they know a lot about, and you're following along. Then, at some stage you realize you kind And then, you're standing there and you realize you have absolutely (Laughter) I had this recently with a friend And it's something I don't know but it's very important, But he started talking about blah - (Laughter) And unfortunately, I went away So, I think it's a situation and fortunately there's things you can do which is what I'm going So, I'm a scientist. And so, I've been on both sides I've both been the guy explaining but I've also been on the receiving end of lots of very kind of intense scientific And, when this kind of breakdown I've noticed something interesting, which is that, as a person you feel kind of guilty about it. But, if you think about it, it's the wrong way around there's literally nothing you can do But there is something that the other by finding a better way of explaining And so - during my experience in science, I found that the only way to survive to politely stop the person say, &quot;I'm sorry, I don't understand and then try and go back and start off And it does take because you're kind of admitting that you But I think that's OK, and in fact, Generally people respect you knowing the right information or care about, like, So, I think we should never ever feel bad and we should never feel bad So, I do a lot of science communication, and science really has because generally And you might know about how their research like &quot;Drinking wine cures cancer.&quot; (Laughter) It totally doesn't, by the way. But on the other hand, how journalists will maybe because, to explain cutting-edge research, you kind of need a PhD and that's not something we can expect, in all the different So, I think the world would be very who are really good people who understand the science that the general public can understand. And this is important for many reasons, but one reason is you might know that just about all the science research is publicly funded. So, it'd be nice if the general public the work that their money But for me, the even more important reason is because it's also interesting. The research going on is so fascinating Take my field for example, I find quantum physics to be but it's one that gets this reputation And that's fair, it gets complicated but it doesn't mean So, let me get a show of hands. So, put your hand up if you don't know And if you don't, don't feel bad about it. Raise your hand, you know. It's totally fine. Okay, okay, right. So, quantum physics is the description So, if you zoom right down down to the scale of molecules, atoms, you know, subatomic particles, it just describes how they all work And the interesting thing it's like the fundamental rules and yet, the things that happen there So, I'll tell you a few of the phenomena One you might have heard of So, you can imagine these protons, neutrons, electrons, kind of bouncing around, But sometimes you have to treat them And they kind of do both at the same time, So, I'll paint a picture. Imagine dropping one of these bouncy balls The ball would disappear, and then you'd get these ripples Now, imagine one All of the ripples and by that stick suddenly That's kind of strange But this is the kind in the subatomic realm all the time. Another phenomena you might have heard So, imagine I've thrown one of these So, it would be like bounce - oh, sorry - throw, bounce, catch - throw, bounce, catch - throw - It's gone completely through the window. It's not smashed it. It's just suddenly and you can see it flying away. (Laughter) If we saw that, But this goes on at the In fact, it's the only reason we exist. So, you might know that, in the Sun, the way it generates energy And nuclear fusion is when and the protons in their nucleus Now, if it wasn't for quantum tunneling, they'd bounce off each other But what actually happens is and that's what lets them fuse and without that sunlight, So, we can thank quantum tunneling Another phenomenon And it's a very fancy word, but all it means it something that can do So, for example, I can spin around one way, I can spin around the other way, but what would it look like for me to spin around in both directions (Laughter) We can't do that, we can't imagine that, but this is what these subatomic And in fact, we can kind of do it, So, if you've ever been in an MRI machine, what an MRI machine does is it finds and makes them spin around in this superposition. This is what allows us to see So, it's interesting that all of this and remote from our everyday experience. And yet, it's happening inside our bodies, So, it's happening everywhere around us. And it's no just MRI machines There's been a whole host because of our understanding So, one of those allowed us to invent the silicon chip, which is in every single So, the entire computing because of our understanding And it's in other things, like lasers - and nuclear power plants. And there's this other sound bite you it's that no one really Well, that's actually wrong. We do understand and you'd kind of hope that we did if it forms the technology MRI machines What they mean when they say that is that when we try and picture that can be both a particle or something that can spin around we find it very hard But we can describe it all very well So, it's fascinating that something can be but yet, can be so practically So, I really enjoy explaining I make YouTube videos for the age range around seven and I really like pushing myself, I like explaining the most So, quantum physics, nanotechnology, those kinds of things. And I've come to the conclusion that you can pretty much explain as long as you go about it the right way, and I've come up with a set So, I'm going to share these with you. So these are my four principles And I say science, but it can be Okay. So, number one: start off in the right place. So, everyone's got a different background, everyone's got a different And it's our job in terms that they already understand. It's no good leaving a gap because they're not going to follow along. It's better to, yeah, form the information And how do you do this? It's as simple as asking them or even starting an explanation &quot;Do you already get this?,&quot; And if you're talking to an audience, you have, you know, and a show of hands can be useful too. It's always better to err People generally don't mind hearing Okay. Principle two: don't go too far down the rabbit hole. People can only take on a certain and we have to just be So, it's better to explain, that someone will rather than barrage them that kind of undoes all So, I could have carried on but hopefully I gave you enough examples and you can go away with. Okay. Number three: clarity beats accuracy. So, when we're explaining the temptation is to give the most but they tend to be long It's better to come up that maybe isn't completely but it gets the point across. Imagine they're here, All you want to do So, for example, when I was talking the truth is actually of spinning in these subatomic particles, but what I tell you is a good picture, and, you know, if people you can always iron out the details later. Okay. Number four: explain why you think it's cool. (Laughter) If you're explaining something to someone, you know, there's a reason Either you think it's super important And the more that you can the more likely they are to remember it And you can do this in many ways. One way is just to show Another way is to show, using examples, So, for example, quantum physics: you're invoking the fundamental (Laughter) as you tweet photos of your cat. (Laughter) So, those are my four principles. So, I'd just like to leave on an anecdote. When I meet people for the first time, and I introduce myself I get one reaction which is like, &quot;Ooh, physics. (Laughter) And it happens so often it's such a shame. You know, science shouldn't be It should only be about And so, if you find science intimidating I just encourage you: there's so much Just pick the subject find some material, and then just, from there, Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)