When we detected the very first gravitational of the universe. We knew we'd see things previously thought And we just did - an object on the boundary promises to reveal the secrets of both. By now we're becoming used to announcements detected. As though it's no big deal that we regularly of spacetime due to a cataclysmic collision As the LIGO and VIRGO gravitational wave observatories shifting from the holy-crap-we-did-it phase learning. And the latest event is one of the most informative It seemed innocuous enough at first glance From the shape of the gravitational waveform, general theory of relativity, the masses of One was a hefty 23 times the mass of our Sun similar to other LIGO mergers. Its companion was puny by comparison - a mere And there lies the surprise. At that mass, it's pushing the limit for and it's lighter than what was thought possible for So what exactly is this thing? Today on Space Time Journal Club we're going by studying the paper that reported this detection, just a few weeks ago. We've done gravitational wave astronomy had to cover it. But here's a quick refresher nonetheless: The LIGO observatories in Washington State and Louisiana and the VIRGO observatory in Italy, consist of kilometers-long vacuum tubes set at right angles. A laser beam is split, sent down these tubes, The passage of a gravitational wave causes which in turn causes the peaks and valleys up differently, and so those changes can be On August 14 2019, a gravitational wave hit the other in close succession, consistent at the speed of light. From the shape of the detected waveform, the figured out as 23.2 and 2.59 solar are weird. From the arrival times at the three observatories, down to some small arcs on the sky. Unfortunately, there are countless galaxies have no idea in which galaxy the merger happened. Nonetheless, MANY telescopes quickly swiveled flash of light - any indication that the merger by an explosive event. Now that's only been seen once before - with we obviously covered back then. In that case it corresponded to an explosion - energy released as the neutron stars tore they collapsed into a black hole. That light carried with it an enormous amount stars collide - and we're going to be using But there was no such luck with the more recent No electromagnetic counterpart was found. That's not entirely surprising - that event was star merger, so would probably have been too And besides, there may have been no accompanying That would be the case if both objects were was a neutron star it could well have been without so much as an electomagnetic peep. So, we get to the mystery. What was that smaller body? And why are we all so excited to spot something To understand that, we have to understand A neutron star is what's left after some Once it was the burning heart of the star resist the inward crush of gravity. But when it ran out of fuel, gravity took The innermost part of the core turned into of the infalling core rebounded causing the So you end up with at least one and a half would fit inside a small city. That insane density gives the neutron star stronger than the surface of the Earth. Scientists believe that it would be very difficult of a neutron star. And much more difficult to escape the neutron is up to half the speed of light. In fact neutron stars are on the verge of an escape velocity at the event horizon equal If only you could cram a little more matter would increase and it would become a black Now in the case of normal matter, you can't as you do so the radius of the object increases. That means the surface gets further away from full impact of that extra mass. But neutron stars are NOT made of normal matter. That ball of neutrons is a fundamentally quantum One of its weird properties is that as you and at the highest masses the size actually If you want to know why, check out the episode So more mass in a neutron star means higher For any given mass, there's a certain size that size it would be a black hole. It's like a phantom event horizon. In the case of the earth the phantom event In the case of a neutron star it's several As you increase a neutron star's mass, its surface shrinks. When they overlap you have a black hole. This basic picture is pretty well accepted, a neutron star can be before becoming a black It's not because our theories are wrong to understand the bizarre states of matter still some stuff that we don't know. That's especially true towards the center probably break down into different types of Up and down quarks that comprised the - something we've talked about before. The details of the state of matter in the size changes with mass - and that's what Those models have predicted maximum masses Now, we can do better at making this theoretical innards of a neutron star. And we can - when they merge. In the 2017 neutron star merger we learned by the way they warped as they spiraled together, We also see the results of these mergers in light from the distant universe. We've estimated a maximum neutron star mass More direct measurements of neutron star masses result from a neutron star's precessing Most pulsars are closer to the minimum neutron But, the most massive so far is around 2.1 Suns. All of these numbers are quite a bit lower And that's what makes it so cool. If it IS a neutron star then it puts us at about the crazy states of matter inside. That's if it's a neutron star at all. So why can't it just be another black hole? Well that would perhaps be even more surprising. So far we've never observed a black hole that of the Sun. We see those in X-ray binaries - when a black star. It may seem weird that there seems to be a and the smallest black holes, but actually New black holes are formed when the most massive a neutron star. But you don't get this smooth transition Like I said earlier, a neutron star forms the material rebounds as a supernova explosion. But if that neutron star then becomes a black gets sucked into the black hole. That increases the black hole's mass quite Based on our calculations and simulations mass of 5 Suns seems about right. A black hole with 2.6 solar masses is difficult If we figure out that this object CAN'T to rework our models of how stars die - or black holes. But if it IS a neutron star then we've learned in the universe. This is just the beginning. With new gravitational wave events coming of these sorts of mergers. Each will be rich in information on the nature states of matter. Billion-year-old secrets carried to us on As always guys, I want to give our deep thanks Subscribing and tuning in each week goes a long way to keeping the show going. And special thanks to our Patreon contributors - we know you'd get this stuff for free anyway, so it's huge that you'd throw in a bucks each month. For those who don't know we have a very active discord channel available to all patreon tiers. And finally I want to give an extra extra special thanks to Ahmad Jodeh, who's supporting us at the Ahmad, we got you a small gift to show our It's a brand new 2.6 solar mass black hole. I know, it's small as far as black holes thanks. We're shipping it to you from a little star humanely sourced o-giant star of course. It should arrive at your doorstep in the next few million the process. OK, In our last two episodes we talked about by adding rotation or charge to the black study the nature of antimatter. Let's do comments for both. Regarding trying to disolve an event horizon into it - Ultimantis points out that it would black hole gain charge. That's right - and that means we shouldn't However it never actually becomes impossible put enough energy behind your electron beam. So, you know, still worth trying. Fabrizio Cimo has a good one: What if I cross and the instant later the black hole shrinks Would I find myself outside again From your point of view - no, not really. Hawking evaporation is excrutiatingly slow from your pespective. For someone watching from far away, you appear - and then yes, they would see your energy it would itslef be as hopelessly scrambled So, in a sense both happen, but you don't A couple of you asked why we think there had antimatter versus matter particles in the early universe. Couldn't the two just have become separated parts of the universe? So, maybe then, there are antimatter galaxies Cool thought - but that doesn't work because pair is close together. Matter and antimatter would have been smoothly them. Now there's no way to directly test if distant - they should emit exactly the same light But if there WAS an antimatter section of the universe where hydrogen and anti-hydrogen