Let's say you want a car part that's strong. Something that can survive massive forces. How massive? Well, let's say around 100,000 Newtons. How much is 100,000 Newtons? Well to put it into perspective, an average a force of around 1000 Newtons. That's if I'm lucky. A sledgehammer blow, So 100,000 Newtons, that's twenty times stronger And this is the force generated by the combustion A force to which engine internals are subjected engine is running and under load And 100,000 Newtons, that's the stuff that Modern forced induction engines and diesels, combustion pressure. Now, engine internals as we know, consist the piston. Now, the crankshaft only rotates. The piston only reciprocates. But the connecting rod has a more complicated travel path. It both rotates and reciprocates at the same time, which means that it's exposed to the most Also means that it's under the greatest amount of stress. And to ensure that the connecting rods handle yielding, we usually make them out of steel. But sometimes we also make them out of aluminum. Now, steel is strong. Here's just how strong it is. A small bar of steel which has a cross-sectional alloy like 4340 steel, for example This little thing can survive Now, aluminum is not as strong Even if we make our little bar from a high-grade only manage around 55,000 Newtons before failing. Compared to this, carbon fibre is in a league of its own. The same little bar made from carbon fibre So this little thing alone can survive inside But here's the funny thing. We put rods made from the weakest material and most extreme engines. The engines that generate the highest combustion of mangling their internals. Why do we do this? Well, we do it... ..because aluminum is light. Now, a small cube with sides of 1cm, so 1 cubic cm When made from aluminum is going to weigh The same widow cube when made from steel, So as you can see aluminum is much lighter than steel, and this is good news Because it gives us ample room, to compensate the amount of material, while sacrificing just a bit of weight. In other words, we're going to make the connecting And the end result is a connecting rod, which to weigh half as much less they weigh, the better work and energy is wasted on getting them And they also carry less momentum when they The end result is an engine which has reduced and is more responsive. But aluminum has to pay price for its low weight. And unfortunately, the price is longevity. To put it in more technical terms, aluminum It may sound like something cool and powerful It's bad. And to understand it we have to observe this Now, this line right that's steel and the limit of steel. This line actually stretches into infinity. Now, our horizontal axis, is the number of And as you can see, as long as the force magnitude fatigue limit, the steel part is going to last forever. In other words, you can keep repeating the the force is low enough, the part is never going to fail. And as we know steel is pretty strong, so a steel part. But unfortunately aluminum is different. This line It keeps going down And eventually, after a certain number of to fail, even under the smallest of loads. In practice, this means that steel connecting But aluminum connecting rods usually last Making them really only suitable for racing life and frequent rebuilds are a given. So it seems that with metals, we have to We can either have low weight, or long life. We can't have both. But what about carbon fibre? Well with carbon fibre we don't have the compromise. Just like it blows steel out of the water out of the water when it comes to weight. That same cubic cm, If we make it from carbon So, this makes carbon fibre the ultimate material It's incredibly strong, and it has incredibly low weight. There must be some catch, right? It probably has horrible fatigue life. Well, just like aluminum, carbon fibre does Meaning that after a certain number of load But thanks to its absolutely ridiculous tensile carbon fibre part can survive, A nice practical example is this: Helicopter blades, if they're made from aluminum, or 7,000 hours, If the helicopter blades are made from carbon And although they do have a finite fatigue so long that it's longer than the life of So, carbon fibre is the absolute champ. Super strong, super light, no real fatigue issues. It's the best possible material for engine internals. So, if it's the best possible material, why carbon fibre internals And why are there zero aftermarket carbon Well, the answer to that question is, that is misleading And it's misleading in the same way as tabloid-style You know the kind of stuff that you can read a million times stronger than steel And only a fraction of the weight. That kind of stuff is an oversimplification, So now allow me to explain why it's misleading, Here's issue number 1 Carbon fibre does not exhibit isotropic properties. When a material is isotropic, it exhibits in all of its parts. Steel is isotropic. Let's take this imaginary block of steel. If we apply a load in this or in this direction, the same amount of force to deform or break Regardless of the direction in which we apply But carbon fibre isn't this. It's not isotropic. It's orthotropic. In other words, it's a bit like wood And this is because parts made from carbon Instead, they must be made by layering up one at a time. These sheets of carbon fibre are composed And the tow itself is composed of thousands Now, if we imagine that we stacked up our Then just like wood, this carbon fibre block grains, it's going to be stronger than steel But if we apply the load in a different direction, The carbon fibre block isn't going to be nearly in fact if we change the direction of the part is going to be highly dependent on the and their orientation and distribution And if you recall, at the beginning of the problematic and complex forces. In other words, they face multiple forces Meaning that the isotropic properties of metals Another problem is the manufacturing process. When making stuff out of carbon fibre, you And then manually brush or roll the resin Or you can use pre-preg, which is carbon fibre which then eliminates the possibility of human Once the resin is applied, advanced manufacturing Parts are put into the autoclave, which then in order to ensure the best possible part And as you can see, this process of manually long curing times and the high cost of the Explains why stuff made from carbon fibre But there's another issue, And it's that this manufacturing process of or even impossible to adapt to complex parts, Now, connecting rods are relatively complex, which must be made with the highest consistency, mass production. On the other hand, the typical carbon fibre or hollow parts, that have relatively simple shapes, and are or even just as a one-off part. But this didn't stop manufacturers from trying fibre for their mass-produced parts. And thus in 2010, at the Paris Motorshow, Lamborghini in cooperation with the Callaway the Sesto Elemento A very striking, very limited production run Now, Sesto Elemento means the sixth element, And indeed the car did feature a lot of carbon shaft And even suspension components But it wasn't the first car to feature so Instead, it was the first car that features And this is a completely new way of manufacturing course also trademarked, by Lamborghini. But the big news is that 'forging' composites stuff like carbon fibre connecting rods. Instead of manually stacking up the layers the forging process involves using chopped in a resin and then exposed to heat and pressure And that's it. You're done. The process is both shorter and more consistent And the randomly distributed fibres also give The added bonus is that you can also make But of course because now we have randomly incredible tensile strength of carbon fibre However Lamborghini claims, that the same achieved using this process While of course also maintaining the incredibly And indeed the Lamborghini did make all sorts But the big news came in 2016, when they announced in their Aventador to feature carbon fibre connecting rods, made using their trademarked forged composite process The engine was expected to launch in 2020 And as you probably know, we never got a production There were some cool prototypes displayed, It never really happened And the question is why? I mean if anybody has the R&amp;D capacity, it's I'm sure they can make it happen And I mean if they made complex and structural right after unveiling the technology in 2010, why don't we have rods 12 years later? To get a bit more insight into why it didn't statement from the beginning of the video Remember this one, carbon fibre is 5X stronger We already explained that it's a lot stronger same direction But there's another problem with this sentence And it's this, carbon fibre That word Because what we're doing all the time when fibre alone to metals And none of the parts that you see have seen in person, or that are used on cars. None of this is carbon fibre alone. All of it is carbon fibre plus epoxy resin. Epoxy resin is the substance which together. The resin is the matrix within which the carbon And here's the problem. Epoxy resins hate heat. And there's a lot of heat inside the engine. Epoxy resins also hate acids, and acids can Also epoxy resins really hate coolant, and of It means that a failed head gasket could lead All in all, the insides of an engine are an and if the resin fails, the entire part fails, can protect against this and as far as I know, resin can guarantee reliability and longevity So if the epoxy resin is the problem then, Sure no problem. We have actually something like that. It's called carbon-carbon, and it's carbon It's an incredible material. We use it on the nose and the leading wing It has incredible heat resistance Low weight, good tensile strength You name it Bunch of amazing properties. In fact, in 1994, NASA made and tested carbon-carbon they outperformed aluminum pistons in every way. A better torque, lower weight, better resistance But in 2003, we got to see in practice a big When a small piece of foam fell off and hit shattered it, leading to the death of all And this happened because carbon-carbon has This means that inside the engine, a small carbon build up from combustion, lugging which simulates something similar All of this could potentially lead to the engine internals On top of this, as NASA demonstrated in their multiple different parts which are then fused together and in general carbon-carbon manufacturing So all of this means that we're actually better But there's another problem. As you know, to attach the cap to the body And where there's bolts, there's also going But making threads directly in carbon fibre The material is very much unsuitable for this. The threads end up being weak. The material starts to fray, or delaminate, It just doesn't work. So carbon fibre connecting rods have to use solution. So with all this in mind, I decided to send address I could find. I asked whether they have overcome the challenges and whether they have still plans to make Boss I just received this Email from this YouTube He asking about our connecting rods-a. I need to reply to him, right? Yeah, as you might expect Months passed, and I never ever got a reply I honestly didn't even expect it But don't worry, Lamborghini isn't the only There are three more companies, in fact. The first one I came across is called Naimo And they tried a crowdfunding thing to get They got around $125, so they were out of The next company is called Extreme Tuners and they're posting a lot of cool stuff on It looks like a generative design, together They've been posting this for a while, so Yeah, again no response ever But there's another company AWA Composites And on their website they claim some really carbon fibre connecting rods, wrist pins, lifters And even something called Kiptanium rod bolts They're also the only company that has ever And the only company ever to put an actual rods That is $18,000 You counted the zeroes correctly. So I sent them an email as well, and this Now, as you might expect we didn't really used, or the manufacturing process, you know, because at this stage of the technology the field It's all about who's going to be first to stuff. However AWA composites really demonstrated that they have overcome all the issues with resins. They claim that their pistons offer less thermal They also claim that their parts reduce engine weight and the lower momentum of the parts. They also claim that their rods can handle And these are just some of the benefits listed. We did get actual concrete info on weights, seem to weigh around 40% less than aluminum Also, the prices seem to have dropped, and get the rods to market at around $1,000 to $2,000 per rod Meaning that the minimum possible price for it's still a lot of money But it's definitely better than $18,000 However, we really don't have any information be on the market. So, it's undeniable that this is all very impressive stuff And I will choose to remain optimistic about However, there is a point I disagree with And it's the application. Currently, AWA Composites is developing their Basically, top fuel racing And they claim that this is as a proof of rods can handle pretty much anything But they also claim importantly that there OEM daily driven applications, due to the superior fatigue life of their Now, first of all and we covered this, life over steel. Aluminum sure, but steel definitely not. We explained this earlier in the video already. Second, and this is just my subjective opinion. Top fuel racing is not a good proof of concept. Basically have a few high-powered runs that gets torn apart and rebuilt. The engine never has to sustain very high operating temperatures, nor does it has to have to survive you know time in varying conditions. Again just my opinion, But these are all just secondary issues. The primary issue here is that I think that in this decade, the chances of us seeing carbon fibre connecting First of all, carbon fibre engine internals nor will their production process ever be as rapid. Now, a set of aftermarket forged 4340 rods That's a fraction of the minimum possible carbon fibre rods And these are all of the rods, some of the the American muscle market And this is again the aftermarket we're talking about. The OEMs they make their rods themselves. They want them as quickly as humanly possible, and they expect to spend maybe a 100 bucks The lead times and cost of carbon fibre engine high-level motor sports Why? Well, the answer is simple. It's because steel is a very good material Those Oliver rods we just mentioned Well for $1,500 bucks they can easily take And let's be honest, how much more do you When talking about carbon fibre, many choose And then they portray steel as this obsolete to the amazing properties of carbon fibre Well, this is wrong and misleading Because it means that we're either taking amazing engines which turn out thousand and thousands of horsepower, And they do so consistently and reliably. The gains and responsiveness and performance Why? Because reducing rod and piston weight by by 50%. Let's not forget the engine is already lugging few hundred grams from the internals isn't There are gains and improvements, but they and completely irrelevant for a daily driven Your average Joe driving a Camry would never under his hood. The ability to sustain 12,000 horsepower doesn't The ability to rev 1000 or 2000 RPM more doesn't But your car suddenly costing $8,000 more. Well, that's definitely something you're going So, let's summarize it. Are carbon fibre engine internals amazing? You bet. Do you need them? No Unless you're doing something pretty extreme.