- Bye bye, little buddy. (rock music) (gears clicking) (motor whirring) (dramatic music) How much nitrous oxide can a bone stock short block take? That's what we're going to find out on this episode of Engine Masters, presented by AMSOI and supported by Mr. Here's the thing. Nitrous does not blow up engines. People blow up engines. And we're going to show We're going to take as we make more and to show you how you can tune to actually prevent an explosion. But let's be honest, there's no entertaining in not exploding and there's no chance This is a stock Chevy small block. It's a 305, so it's no loss. No crying, dry your tears. 'Cause that sucker is going to go. With it's cast cranks, stock rods, stock bolts, cast pistons. It's junk. But we have hopped it up a little bit. It's got a Comp XE268 That is an Engine Quest Vortec head. It has aluminum roller Big hankin' single plane intake manifold. Big hankin' 850 double pumper and of course, the precious. The two stage NOS Cheater, capable of 500 horsepower. But is that motor capable of a 500 shot? No. But we're going to find First, we're going to run into the Dyno and baseline this thing. And find out how much power this pooch makes naturally aspirated. AMSOIL knew that we were of this thing all over And they said, &quot;You know &quot;it's not going to be the oil's fault.&quot; Because, bam. DOMINATOR racing oil. They've recommended this with a super charge or Because it has a really so the oil doesn't squirt out from between the bearing and the rod But what's interesting is with the SAE 60 weight oil This is the equivalent of going to the chair for an engine. Yeah. (dramatic music) (engine revving I feel really guilty now. - [Voiceover] Yeah. - I feel like we're That thing runs pretty good. What did this thing make? 358 horsepower and 323 And look at the torque curve. - No, it's good. It really is good. If this thing were in a guy's Camaro with a 150 shot on it, This would be good. - Ready? - [Voiceover] Yup, ready. - Okay, nitrous time. With N O S nitrous. You can't say nos. You can't say noz. It's clown shoes, just don't do it. Here's how nitrous oxide works. Stored here in this bottle, it's liquid. You inject it into the And you've got all these little molecules that have one atom of And because you've got oxygen in there and you're injecting it into the engine, you're bringing more air into the engine. Which means that you can burn more fuel. When you burn more fuel and more air all smashed into the combustion chamber, you make a bigger Here's how you do that. You inject the nitrous and into your engine with some This happens to be a plate that goes underneath a Holley carburetor. It is an NOS Cheater two stage set up capable of 500 horsepower of additional nitrous into your engine. As I said, nitrous doesn't blow up motors. People do. So people can take steps to make sure that doesn't happen. And here's what we're going to do. You must control detonation when you're on nitrous oxide. The first thing that we're is run Rocket brand 118 octane gas. That will just control that detonation, help the thing survive Next thing you have to do with nitrous. Because that explosion happens so much faster than it you have to retard the ignition timing. Otherwise, the cylinder pressure is fighting the piston coming up. And that is just disastrous. What we're going to do to prevent that is use an MSD power grid ignition system, which is pretty advanced. MSD also makes a bunch that are designed to right when you hit your So you always want to do that. Spark plugs. When you're running nitrous, you need to run a colder spark plug range. Now remember, that doesn't mean anything about the power Instead, it is the temperature of the center electrode there, because of the length of the path to the cooling passage. So that is a very cold Also in your tune up, you really need to pay attention to your air fuel ration. You could hurt your engine meaning not enough gas, A lot of people say fat and happy. That is not necessarily true. You go too rich, you can I highly recommend you get and a reader to power it, and either a data logger or a gauge or something so that you know that you're in a range of, say, 12 and a half to one, that wide open throttle on your nitrous. Remember. The air fuel ratio that makes the most power naturally is the same air fuel ratio that will make the most Now, that's all a bunch of tuning steps that you can largely take care of with this chingadera right here. This is a nitrous controller. It happens to be an NOS launcher. This is a really advanced controller that can do a lot of things. It can shut off your nitrous if you're too rich or too lean. It can read our nitrous bottle pressure. It can activate your nitrous in a whole bunch of different ways. Throttle switch, whatever But most importantly, it can control the behavior of how you're applying Because you'll hurt an engine if you just hit it with What you'd rather do, instead of hitting it like this, is give it a nice push. Put the nitrous into the And that's what this can do. We can ramp the nitrous from say, 50%, to 100% power delivery over a period of time that we select. You'll see that as we move on today. Now, the last thing that in this test is the fact that you want your engine to have good internal parts. Forged pistons, rods, crank. Our 305 has none of that. Here's what the problem with that is. Not only can the pistons be fragile and just fail under the power, but a big deal is piston ring end gap. Of course, the piston ring goes in here. Seals the piston to the cylinder. Now the end gap right there, of course, gets much smaller when you put The problem is, if you are gapped for just a regular street engine, when the ring heats up under nitrous, that gap can close up. When it does, it breaks the piston. That's probably what we're And it could lead to catastrophic failure. The smart thing to do is to take any engine apart that power adder and just file Did we do that? No. But I bet you this thing will of nitrous that we're going We're going to spray it? - [Voiceover] Yep. - Yeah. - Got all the wiring (chuckles) - [Voiceover] Sweet. - Okay, we have this just on one stage, it's 150 horsepower. We already have it jetted. We've already verified when it's running naturally aspirated that the MSD is pulling the timing out like we want to. It's got 35 degrees and as soon as we hit the nitrous, it drops to 29 for the This is the handheld controller You can go through the menu I'm not going to ramp the nitorus in on the 150 horsepower set up. We're just going to hit the button, boom. 150 horsepower, later on you'll see it's tuning more with this. So the last thing we have to do is hook up the hose to the nitrous bottle. We are monitoring pressure You want, like, 950 and we need that to be Just because that's a way and to make sure that you're delivering enough nitrous to the engine. If the pressure is down, it'll go lean. What we've got here is a hot water bath for the nitrous bottle. We'll throw it in right here. And the perfect temperature Look at that. As if by magic, it is at 93, 92. So that bottle is set. Going to hook up a line directly And bam. Got it fired up, bottle's open. 150 horsepower ready to go. Are you going to purge it? (speaking indistinctly) Is this going to blip it? (motor whirring) (engine revving) Our 350 horsepower 305 is making 537 horsepower, no. - 557. - 557 horsepower. (laughter) 200. That happens a lot, actually. We notice that... The factory jetting Ho are we looking on air fuel ration? - Well, I have to tell you. Part of that is because and you've looked at everything as far as air fuel ratio and timing. And it's all doing... What it's supposed to do. It's not unusual to make a little more power than they're actually rated. - So what's our call right now? - I'm already impressed. I say we just put it to bed. - I know it's pretty happy. - Put a blanket over it and say we-- - [Voiceover] That was good. - So, this is a good setup. Right? - It is. - Yeah. Let's step it up. - What would be better? More power. - Yeah. - [Voiceover] Using your wrench. - Just leading the pressure out of the line so it Always a good precaution. What we're doing here is changing the jets - [Voiceover] There's your jet. - And these are very much like jets in a carburetor. They're just a metered orifice. This thing has a whole in it. It is a fixed size. This one, I believe, we just ran was 63 on the nitrous, 59 on the fuel. - You never want to put more nitrous in it without getting the right Or you might just burn - Now that we're stepping I don't want to smack the motor as hard. So instead of going I am going to ramp it hits the button, it gives And then goes up to 100% over one second. Now we've got it jetted to 250. I think we're finally going to - [Voiceover] That's the idea. - Unless you pulled out too much tining. - [Voiceover] Wow. - [Voiceover] That would be awesome. - [Voiceover] Just trying - Yeah. (dramatic music) (engine starting) (engine revving) (yelling) Two horsepower per cubic inch. - Whoa. That is awesome. - That is awesome. We've just made 620 Exactly two horsepower per cube. - [Voiceover] Wow. - That's hilarious. I've gone through the - Really? - Because at first I was We're going to scatter in Steve's Dyno cell. And then I was like, I love that warm and cuddly 305 And now, I want it to make 700 and live. I don't want to blow it up anymore. - Well, you figure if that high of a dividend, - You can't put it down. It's no longer like Old Yeller. - [Voiceover] No. - Yeah, it's not. So next step, two systems, 150 each. And I'm going to go into the control room and we're going to ramp both - [Voiceover] Right. - [Voiceover] That's the thing, (suspenseful music) (engine starting) (engine revving) (groaning) (engine sputtering) - [Voiceover] Wow. - There we go. I'm going to call that - No, it slipped out the... That was blow by. - I let off the butt. - I didn't like that, Lot of smoke out the valve covers. Okay, I think we owe it to the 305 to tear the heads off I want to see how hurt it is. - It's not catastrophic, though. It's still in one piece for the most part. - Yeah, rods aren't hanging - That's positive. (laughter) - Okay, and... This one's hurt bad. - [Voiceover] What do you see? - Piston on it. This is out of the number two cylinder. And look how it's got silver all over it. In fact, it's filled up the crevice there between the porcelain and the metal here. That is aluminum off the piston. And there's some oil in there too. This is the number four cylinder, and you can see that it's And it was a little wet So our guess is that it between the number two and four cylinders. But what we really want to do is putt it apart and find - When you melt your piston and completely fill up your spark plug, that's usually not good. - [Voiceover] Right. (light music) - What are those little (laughter) - [Voiceover] That's piston. - [Voiceover] Yeah. - [Voiceover] Piston sand. (drill whirring) - We gather here, not to mourn the death of the 305. But to celebrate the nitrous - That's right. This is not a funeral, this - That's right. (groaning) - Yep, it pinched a ring. What you can see here really clearly is just classic nitrous failure with an engine that is not nitrous ready. Right here, the whole top Just fractured, and it's beat up here from the pieces flying into the What happens is that the piston ring, which I can see the It butts together and Because it's a circle, It's got to expand somewhere. It cracks the piston, and then the piston just destroys itself. We are lucky that the And then the connecting rod swings around, just saws the block in half and you end up throwing away everything This thing's actually saveable. The cylinder wall's not even that bad. Poor baby. (soft music) We made two horsepower per cubic inch out of a 305 Chevy. - And then we blew it up. - You know, this was the completely textbook, predictable result But I think the real lesson is if you want to do this, take the engine apart. File that ring end gap wide open. Just let it be junk. And then you can spray because the failure was - You're changing your tune, now. It was a blown head - [Voiceover] It did blow the head gasket. - [Voiceover] Yeah. - [Voiceover] After that happened. (laughter) - I guess you're right. So we were both right on that. But it did pretty well, - You know, can you really when this happens? You can't, and that's on Engine Masters, presented by AMSOIL and supported by Mr. (gentle music) You got to make sure not to touch the nitrous when it's coming out. It will literally burn you. - [Voiceover] Wow. That was dangerous for our burner. - I know. You know what this 305 is like right now? - [Voiceover] What's that? - It's like a puppy on your farm. - Oh no. - Yeah, it's a nice, You like with it and it's a good doggie. But you know it's not going to last long. (laughter) - What are you saying? Now I'm a puppy killer? - It's true. Well, we kind of know what went wrong. But now we've got to tear it apart and actually see what 'Cause death on an engine is not really a black and white situation. - Unlike a puppy, which (laughter) - [Voiceover] Here we go with the puppy. - More definitive... When you're talking puppies. 305s, there's more gray area.