Before its economic reforms were called a miracle, wider world, before practically every single to the right, China faced a crippling housing China, and especially urban China, was average footprint of a one-bedroom apartment in footprint of the average American kitchen. space per capita for urban China. Not until and not until the mid 1990s would it cross 15. average living spaces for other urban areas the New Delhi, and Cairo in the neighborhood of the available space only goes so far in quantifying a at the onset of the world's largest domestic dangerous, and decidedly anti-modern. In 1985, didn't have sole access to toilets, and nearly 40% Rapid demographic change was partly and so too were corruption and general poverty. incentive to build. Through the '80s, housing in specifically, housing came in one of two ways: it housing administration, or it was provided by it was cheap too. Considered a right, rent cost were not tethered to the cost of construction this approach made additional housing because unlike investing in infrastructure no substantial revenue. With the state at development outright illegal, China's housing Xiaoping, and with him a real estate revolution. with this: A simple, single- sentence addition to People's Republic of China in 1988--that the right law. Vague and--in an era of economic reform and justified in part by a series of smaller-scale Unlike in freehold countries such as the or in rural settings, collectives. This and this is still the case today. But with reform still owned the land, but it granted smaller local to develop it how they saw fit. Local governments, for infrastructure projects or simply maintaining on to property developers, who would then build that increasingly had the means to finance the housing a need begrudgingly invested in governments now had steady income streams had massive and growing demand to act on, and housing options and investment opportunities. a private real estate and development shot upward. So too did home ownership. From enough stock to house the entire population of a housing miracle--two things that couldn't be alongside economic growth, but helped fuel it. Institution's rankings, of the world's top ten six are headquartered in either mainland China or mainland China. Of these, four of the largest founded in the 1990s or later, making their construction-based industry nothing less than explained by simply stepping in and filling an with strategy. Take the largest, for example. project, when a 110,000 square meter footprint sale in the Haizhu industrial district. Turning for a growing aspirational middle class, the the company reinvested the earnings and the push toward the top was unmistakably on. seemingly copied and pasted rose high into the sky the outside world, it was a boom, but considering the inside it may have felt more like a race. and seemingly endless opportunity, Evergrande any property developer, they'd fund construction and borrowed money from banks, but the difference didn't keep big cash reserves in case sales slowed they didn't wait to see if one project proved next one. They truly just took on as much debt as to an incredible amount of risk, but this risk sold out. Growth was in hyper drive as Evergrande projects, then in the 2010s, nearing a thousand. housing prices only continued to rise while buyers 35% or more--dwarfed those of much of the rest good times were only getting started. The impact too. It offered a rare opportunity for the Chinese track-record of consistent growth. It offered allowing for infrastructure development and social the world's most active construction industries. of one of the world's mightiest economies. doing a good job of actually housing. All those unimaginable prices. Beijing's property prices Shenzhen's were about the same as Paris, and this was all in an economy where the average sixth as much as those in the US, France, or UK. fundamental mismatch between what people earn for example, it takes thirteen years of average meanwhile, it takes sixteen, while in in Shenzhen, though, it took forty-one years near-impossible proposition. And in Shanghai But perhaps most concerningly, from the this did not appear to be the simple result of all, supply was at an all-time high. Almost a there were millions upon millions of completely but never inhabited. It just simply did not have some of the highest housing development growth rates in the world, and some of the Unless, of course, one considers the rather clear from its actual utility. It had become so traded based on its role as a financial asset, familiar and growing phenomenon across the wealthy residential real estate as ever--but the extent of a full 87% of homebuyers already had another they were buying almost solely as an investment. this presented two issues. The first was the difficult for everyone but the country's rich has downstream effects in contracting labor supply issue was more the more pressing one: the rapid the sales prices of property were stretching weren't supported by the actual utility of the by constrained supply: rather, they were almost only continue to rise further. That's to say: to avoid letting it burst on its own, the The answer was August, 2020. Then, the central rules the property development sector would have Each was about reining in financial risk: first, 70% of the value of the assets the company itself than the totality of what the company itself is owe more in short-term debt than what it has in not violate any of the red lines, they'd be while if they violated one, the cap would be 10%; they couldn't grow their debt obligations at all. theoretical threat: Evergrande, after all, cash to short term debt ratio of 67%--they meaning they violated two red lines. And just a hair's breadth from the third red line. had millions upon millions of apartments already and suppliers and others to complete these new restrictions due to their violation of the two cash reserves dwindled, their existing obligations to reverse course by launching new projects. China was both the first and last major economy of the rest of the world regained a sense its population with generally less effective, to the more effective, novel mRNA-based jabs used still arose after widespread vaccination, policies than the rest of the world. Overall the entire economy, and each individuals' Simultaneously, the country's migrant worker previously moved from their rural hometowns to returned home--during the pandemic, for the of migrant workers in cities declined. While in cities during the pandemic, many also pointed salaries in cities were no longer worth it. were catching up with the nation. The rates meant those in China's notably young core beginning to represent a smaller and smaller the overall population stayed steady, likely to buy a home had begun to shrink. taking on debt, it also was starting to struggle projects. The two key money-generating stages used to. But they still had debt to pay off and the company started rummaging for cash. an electric vehicle manufacturing division that major senior care division, but in 2021 it courted Talks eventually stalled and no sale was made. It the championship-winning Guangzhou FC soccer hundreds of millions of dollars a year through able to sell off its 18% stake in an entertainment this was ultimately a drop in the bucket compared So ultimately, the death spiral began on and not even with a whimper, but rather with of a grace-period for already late payments on a or even an explanation of when payment might and Wednesday, and by Thursday--with investors three credit rating agencies, declared Evergrande although largely ceremonial signal to the to Evergrande because they might not get it back. entirely centered around debt--default is pretty could get loans, they'd be at such a high interest effective cost of property development would be Evergrande did have an easier time than the finding lenders since many believed the company of the Chinese Economy that the CCP would But that bail out never came. After a year shedding off assets, cost cutting--in January, was just simply impossible. Evergrande could and the only option was to strip it for parts But the crux of China's challenge is that this the largest, most dramatic example highlighted the giant are putting pressure on almost every another giant, appears just months behind is teetering towards liquidation. Dozens of hundred billion dollars of debt payments from the There are quite a number of forces putting shift, their deindustrialization, their increasing weaved itself so integrally through the nation those issues. At base, the fact that the sector domestic product means it simultaneously can product. But it also has a propensity for most central to China's economy. Stock market but impact those who have a higher portion which tends to be wealthier individuals and however, is a key source of savings and investment the one most likely to have an outsized portion apartment that might now never exist. Money has hole in the middle of the Chinese economy. to collapse. Its highly-leveraged debt-fueled itself in anything but the most gangbusters from the get-go, so some sort of crisis always economy is essentially a controlled demolition. position for the central government. The Chinese that individuals sacrifice personal liberty in dissent of course appears since nobody truly a huge portion of the population wholeheartedly it's hard to argue with the means when the end now history. If Xi Jinping can't deliver his property wanes, then the question in everyone's Think about how much time you spend in a day for the laundry to finish. You, like anyone, or TikTok or Instagram, but I don't know many a social media site. I think it's worth something that does leave you feeling better for you that probably means some sort of learning. small pockets of the day, but that's why I They're a STEM-learning platform that has taken applied probability or neural networks and broken but they have a unique teaching style that focuses pulling them together into the bigger concepts. As subjects, I find that Brilliant.org really makes which I find amazing considering how daunting you can start a course on your computer recommend their new course on how large language ChatGPT now, so I found it fascinating to and if anything, I was surprised how simple if you want to fit more learning into have to offer for free for a full 30 days. the link in the description, and you'll also