The surge in AI tools has meant simpler, and more accessible than ever. Thing is, a 'surge' is never just There are now tons of AI tools out there, The choices are overwhelming and it's for tools to help with work ends up I'd like to save you the trouble used that really do help speed up Some of them can be used by anyone. me to automate the bits of coding that Just to manage expectations, help developers the same way It makes excellent first drafts, but you don't ship first drafts. It's only when you do your edits that the high school essay nobody cares about to a piece It's the same with app development: AI allowing founders and developers to iterate faster My team and I have personally saved our clients a ton of money since getting But once that's done, it still needs a human touch to get our clients' products over Now that's out of the way, let's Tool 1: Locofy This is the AI tool for me. My team and I already use Figma and React/React so we jumped at the opportunity to use Locofy converts Figma and Adobe frontend code. The linking is still up the process by auto-suggesting tags screen. It promises to turn mockups into I heard 5 - 10 times faster and I was hooked. Maybe me and my team are but I can't say we're at 10 I can say that it's slashed our which means we can now deliver work twice as fast. Locofy lets us add tags and layers to our various audio tracks, and of course the millions of Locofy writes the code that turns them from That alone is amazing, but Locofy goes further. We can set the containers to be It even scans our designs and suggests items it's pretty accurate - like The best kind of intern - unpaid. At any time, we can stop and preview our pages and test the functions to make sure From there, we go into Locofy turn reusable elements into and of course, export it to edit and It's a win-win. Instead of just mockups, clients which are more immersive and closer to an MVP. On our end, no more manually rewriting code from Tool 2: GitHub Copilot Once Locofy helps developers write the boilerplate It's like Grammarly for coding. As we code, CoPilot makes an educated and suggests it for us. A line that now done in a few seconds. Because Let's say you want to structure API calls, or expressions, just type in a few characters I guess it's worth mentioning that they a reason - the suggestions definitely save Still, between these two AI tools, Upstackers are Of course, app development is about more than The code is meant to serve Tool 3: VisualEyes VisualEyes is an AI-powered heatmap tool. It lets us upload designs and analyzes which You want key sections of your app to be and vice versa - you want some You need to balance it all out so users can easily If you've ever used an app where finding the snow leopard, you'll know how frustrating By the way, it's here. But it happens - that's why after launching, With VisualEyes, it still happens, their AI model is trained on data sets from it's like getting hundreds of people to By the time it is launched, it's so your real users immediately get Next, we'll look at AI tools that can specifically help non-technical founders with the Hey guys, if you've found the video useful would subscribe and like the video. Helps me and help more people. Thank you Tool 4: Uizard When I tried out Uizard, I immediately thought It's basically an alternative to Figma, but I think that Uizard is tentatively It's super intuitive, has a bunch of useful editable designs, and I can totally see non-tech A developer would probably still prefer in addition to the wireframing, it offers. Uizard is newer and If Uizard becomes more widely adopted in the Meanwhile, if you're not involved in brainstorm and create wireframes to have how your app is going to look and function, I'd even recommend this overdrawing by hand anyone can go in and start Tool 5: AppifyText This is another one for non-tech founders, It's very situational, and calling it a solution Imagine if the moment you get an idea That's what Appifytext does. Obviously, creating an actual app in First, the app's not going to look good. Second, AppifyText is limited to Internal Tools Business Applications In other words, it can't But if you have an idea for a workflow or you want to build a simple Customer Resource just enter a text prompt into the app description Hit create app, wait a while, and it gives you editing, but as long as you've described the key The catch is you need to sign up for cause that's where it's being hosted But you get a 30 day free trial, more than enough So if you want to show your or any target user, you actually have "I have an idea." Cause nobody wants to hear that. Tool 6: Appicons.ai I almost didn't want to put this on the list cause it's such a no-brainer - but it serves an Enter Appicons. Just type in what your app is all about or what you'd like to see in an icon It's five bucks and we can Sometimes we just need a basic icon that good as hiring a designer, but at this price It's one of those things you So, covered developer AI tools, covered mention two more tools that aren't available Tool 7 &amp; 8: Galileo and MarsX Both of them have celestial According to Galileo's homepage, it high-fidelity designs that can be edited in Figma. It's like rubbing Aladdin's lamp and the This is some next-level shit. Galileo plus Locofy plus Copilot? App development is The second one is called MarsX. It's a low-code And the way it's being marketed, it's going Just have to wait for 5000 people How much development time do I slash? From the tools on the list that we use, I'd say it cuts down early development by just thousands of lines of production-ready I cannot imagine ever going tools. It feels too much like...actually working. In the past, it was like, just finish the boring parts, that's Not anymore! Now it's like "AI, you do the boring part and Alright, time to party. And by party I mean code. I'm a nerd, and proud of it. With these AI tools. We get to MVP and beyond And it's probably the same with other developers. Probably. I think this is a good segue to my series on how There's a well-established saying on weight The idea is that if you don't watch what you eat, it doesn't matter how much you Same thing in app development - you can't If you're looking to build, launch, but like any tool, it works best in the hands videos will help you identify developers Meanwhile, I'm looking forward to bringing development, so subscribe to stay in and let's get into how you