There is a Buddhist phrase that goes: Ku Hai Wu Bian ,Hui Tou Shi An It means, "The sea of bitterness is Almost forty years ago in 1985, the folks at Intel Millions of dollars in losses. An entire product category under siege. And then somehow, they turned back and we look back at how Intel once saved itself. ## The Core-Killer Intel's founding goal was low cost MOS memory chip Such systems then used core memories to store the These core memories were made from which can be magnetized to Core memory - which you might recognize from my to drum memory. But it was also still bulky, Then in 1968, Robert Dennard A small, simple MOS capacitor carrying of data plus a single access transistor One transistor, one capacitor. That power-sipping alternative to core memories, ## The First Breakthrough In 1969, after a year of Intel introduced the Intel 1101 - a 256-bit Drawn up entirely by hand and made gate technology, the 1101 was the first It worked fine. But with six transistors, it with core memories, they needed fewer transistors. For their next chip - the 1102 - Intel to be a 1 kilobit DRAM with a three-transistor technical issues. They eventually got it working, Another Intel team had been working on 1102 - the 1103. The 1103's memory But design lead Joel Karp - working Barbara Maness - simplified its structure A buried contact is a point but &quot;buried&quot; inside the silicon. This let gate to the access transistor without Released in 1970, the 1-kbit Intel computer industry with its cheap price By 1972, the &quot;Core-Killer&quot; as single best-selling semiconductor chip, fuel for ## EPROM and Logic Unfortunately, Intel stumbled in bringing This delay allowed other American which pioneered the 16-pin standard, and seize the initiative in the DRAM market. Fearing the intense competition - Grove ate babies with nails over there&quot; - Intel though they stayed in the category. They turned The first was a quirky little semiconductor from Fairchild, Frohman intended to work on to troubleshoot an issue with the Intel 1101 A few weeks later, he discovered that high gate oxide let electrons leak from the source But then, for reasons even Frohman realized that this issue can read-only memory - suitably named Erasable What is special about the EPROM is chip through a little window to erase it. a highly priced prototype device, but Later on, Dov Frohman became the driving force The second major product category was these first came out of a collaboration chip. I shall spare you the Intel proudly announced this new with a splashy newspaper ad declaring a A few years later, some hobbyists decided the Intel 8080, into a kit computer called Anyway. Introducing the microprocessor also together let engineers program and reprogram Sales of the high-margin EPROM &quot;DRAMs gave us fame, but EPROMs gave us riches&quot;. In 1979, Intel made $661 million in revenues and the US and Singapore, and 14,300 employees around with Gordon Moore remaining CEO. ## Not a Joke &quot;Made in Japan&quot; used to be a joke. then working for Fairchild Semiconductor, He enjoyed the &quot;delicious raw and presumably the female entertainment. him as like a &quot;god&quot;. As they should, Noyce also judged their semiconductor industry products were mid-tier. Their silicon, Fairchild licensing a few designs to Things then started to change. The the Americans pooh-poohed it, saying because they stole American trade secrets But suddenly, there was no denying that market. In 1974, every 4K-generation DRAM generation later, Japan had 35% of the 16K market. ## A Realization In 1978, Noyce traveled to Japan again to visit He told Gordon Moore that Japanese defects than Intel's, and that Intel Normally a gentleman so kind and Noyce hardened against Japan. He And infamously, Noyce contributed to an article titled &quot;The Japanese Spies in Silicon Valley&quot;. claimed that Japanese satellite offices in Noyce was quoted in there as saying our throats&quot;. They nearly threw ## Partners and Customers the company needing to get Gordon Moore recalled customer IBM repeatedly needed to get better. And finally, IBM opened the Electronics giant Hewlett-Packard was Intel employees - including one of Grove's printer division in Vancouver and &gt; You know, I see this guy here all the [Intel] stuff into our products. But I go out want service the way you do it and I don't Hewlett-Packard later went public with this semiconductor industry presentation in March 1980 HP's presentation had a slide showing that even as many quality issues as the worst Japanese. moment. A wave of murmur and disbelief At first, Americans claimed that they were just &quot;buying into&quot; or dumping were so good because they were They were wrong. Japan's memory prices were so ## The IBM PC In 1980, Intel - its market position in famed 68000 microprocessor - Operation Crush was solely aimed at thousands of design wins for Intel share down to 15%. It was a success, One of those design wins was at IBM. So Intel had this rather strange It was a variant of the 8086, but it communicated with the rest of the This weird &quot;truck engine in a car's just 18 months - helped keep enthusiasts get 16-bit performance Earl Whetstone was a successful Intel One day he gets a call to go down to an IBM new product. Whetstone, not knowing what that The weird thing is that IBM refused presumed it was a new printer or word teams in Florida covered. But why &gt; When we went to provide technical support side of a black curtain and theirs on the &gt; We'd ask questions; they'd tell us what the problem literally in the dark. If we through the curtain and grope around a bit That was 1980. It was not until that Intel provide second-sourcing Intel realized that this new product As I covered in a prior video, IBM insisted with - be the second sourcer. Grove After all, Jerry Sanders, the former family. A few months later the two companies By then, the IBM PC had entered the market 13% of Intel's total sales came just from IBM. ## DRAM Dynamic RAM was Intel's baby. Their first big But as early as 1982, the company knew that it was Perhaps hopelessly so. Intel's variant of 16K DRAM still had some reason to exist in the market. Even so, in Worse yet. At the end of 1979, Fujitsu next-generation 64K DRAM, made at down upon as mere copycats and spies Intel did some math and realized that to make a viable 64K DRAM of their own. Japan's advantages with innovation - The latter refers to a nifty setup the chip can be activated with a blown are detected. But the fuses causing Intel's 64K chips to hit the market even Meanwhile, Japan ramped up their 64K memory July 1981 to 66 million in August 1982. At the same time, the Japanese finally challenging Intel's 16K EPROM business - Intel smoothly ramped up their next generation 64K ## Thinking About Leaving 1981 had been a rough year. So difficult an extra 2 hours a day for six months in IBM was so alarmed that in 1982, they bought a 12% share of Intel to shore up But fortunes reversed after mid-1982. Video game computer. Sales of these devices boomed, fueling that year that Intel crossed over - selling It was about here, 1982, that a few inside Intel Gibson - started advocating for the company the margins of DRAM were going away, and at the Niche like the EPROM, of which Intel still struggled to make a good EPROM chip at scale. and the process was as much art as science. But just as many within Intel argued against Intel a one-stop shop. Some customers liked And DRAMS were seen as a &quot;process driver&quot; - theoretically be applied to making microprocessors And of course, DRAM was Intel's baby took them from a 2-man startup to a Fortune ## The Crash 1982 and 1983 had been a brief respite that And thanks to increased investment in testing manufacturing automation, and human fell from 8.5 per million in 1980 to just 1 in But amidst this improvement, gathering storm first half of the year, lured the industry in Then everyone got hit in the the economy, the industry, and the silicon the American DRAM makers exited the market, But another thing that happened was that burdened with capacity, cut hitting sales of Intel's The company lost money for 16 consecutive revenues fell 16%, and profits vanished. Intel and the rest of the American industry Hitachi - maker of the Hitachi Magic Wand It told them to slash prices and &gt; &quot;Quote 10% below their price; if they requote, And much like the Hitachi Magic Wand, this memo was eventually used for purposes In October 1985, AMD, Intel, and filed a trade petition against the Japanese It was one of the major contributors to Trade Agreement, which put a floor on ## Leaving DRAM Behind By late 1984, Intel's share in 256K and they were totally out of the 64K market. Now Intel's people ramped up again for the research that the DRAM group had prepped for But again inside the company, there dream for two, three, maybe even The meeting in which Intel decided to get the time in business school. In mid-1985, &gt; "I was in my office with . . . Gordon Moore, was downbeat. I looked out the window at the park revolving in the distance, then I &gt; 'If we got kicked out and the board brought &gt; Gordon answered without hesitation, &gt; I stared at him, numb, then said, 'Why shouldn't you and I walk out It is a dramatic story, but I think it me quote Intel's Craig Barrett, who &gt; The other side of the story was, we were effectively out of DRAMs when they &gt; So, whether that was a symbolic moment in history is up for debate to some degree Even after the meeting, it took another year general manager and told his replacement to make holding on the 1 megabit memory R&amp;D program. So ## The 386 Decision Just like as they did with AMD for the their microprocessors to NEC for the In 1979, NEC started producing Intel's they began making a new line of NEC chips that To make the V20 and V30, NEC same way Compaq reverse-engineered the IBM PC BIOS specifications and another room makes the hardware And this was allowed, because the circuits were Intel had introduced what is called &quot;microcode&quot; to directly into the processor hardware. It is Feeling it necessary for full compatibility, NEC copied the microcode, and Intel saw and the court agreed with Intel's assertion For more information, I recommend Intel realized that this - along with the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 - can be an effective legal cudgel against Like those by fabless startups like Cyrix. At the same time, Intel was preparing Their first 32-bit chip and as many transistors as the older They offered it to IBM, their biggest for use in their next PC. And famously, IBM said no. In part because they would cannibalize their minicomputer business, but PC ecosystem with what would eventually The PS/2 represented a closing down of IBM was working with Microsoft for its they wanted to use the older 286 chip, since rights for. As one Intel employee said, they Andy Grove saw these two events - the own - and recognized an opportunity to have pushed for Intel to sole-source this 386 He wanted this for older products before, but This was a major risk. It antagonized leading to a flurry of lawsuits between It later antagonized IBM - Compaq to produce the DeskPro And it put a lot of pressure on Intel to ramp up its manufacturing enough to supply ## Craig Barrett Thusly, the cornerstone of this whole Intel can't get the x86 monopoly it chips to meet demand. That is one exist - having that additional quality For this, Intel had Craig Barrett, Big and burly - he had been a track materials science PhD from Stanford Then in 1974, he took an unexpected a Technology Development Manager at Their job was to make the products Barrett joined as a technologist but soon he was made head of all the fabs. all manufacturing costs in half by Barrett thus led a painful downsizing, closing older and unproductive factories - Oregon, Puerto Rico, and the Caribbean - Then Barrett got to work on fixing Intel's techniques. They adopted Japanese standards for purer materials and chemicals. ## Copy Exactly Most Silicon Valley companies in the New processes and techniques were and then moved to production lines. The trying to figure out what the lab actually So at Intel, they made the R&amp;D teams experiment This way, the R&amp;D engineers work right alongside This created new problems. Managers on their own lines. That made because there was no consistency between each of An example. One time, Texas Instruments product from Miho, Japan to Dallas, Texas. the same as the Japan one. But then the and &quot;tweaked&quot; the process - crashing months. They had to call the original So Barrett retooled the whole he called Copy Exactly. Intel's old DRAM where staff experiment to produce a Once that is achieved, manufacturing teams step across all of the fab sites. When moving to a the same supplies, options and physical dimensions Barrett got the idea from McDonald's. He started same no matter where they were. He decided to Despite resistance from engineers - who wants else says? - Copy Exactly worked right off ramped up microprocessor fabs around the world ## Conclusion What we tend to most remember about Intel's return to the shore was its turn The reality, as it always tends to the turn away from DRAM mattered, but less 4K generation. The company's market share was I argue that it was more a combination of three against the dumping of EPROMs, which halted the Second, the microcode victory against NEC and the which effectively locked in an And third, the cleaning up of Intel's long problematic manufacturing processes These three things saved Intel. It made it has also brought them to where they are today.