In the Northwest of the United strange creatures emerge giant Pacific octopuses. With nine brains and eight arms spanning up to They are unusually intelligent, but little is known about them, Marine biologist Florian Graner ... and finds out: octopuses have unique personalities and, like us, they are Where the stormy waters meet the continental nutrient rich water flows from along jagged mountain ranges of the Salish Sea. Deep sea inhabitants near the metropolis of Seattle: Five meter long blunt-nose ... and primeval chimaeras live in unusually shallow depths where humans are and sometimes encounter Some individuals reach up to They are the largest octopus Whidbey Island lies at the entrance called Puget Sound. Here, the German marine biologist Florian Graner is on teaming up with scientists from how intelligent these giant To do this, they are planning First they meet a A much smaller close relative The sea floor here is littered an old abandoned dump site. Overgrown with barnacles, they provide ideal hiding places Octopuses are soft bodied and have Instead they rely on camouflage, agility and intelligence Out here the ocean is and smaller octopuses out in the For lingcod, they are a delicacy. This young octopus is struggling putting up a fight Finally the divers hidden in an old bottle, they discover a young female Florian's plan is to take the to test her intelligence After a year, she will be released much bigger and less likely Like a genie out of a bottle, her body slides into the Because octopuses are molluscs they fit through the After a short ride, the young giant Pacific octopus the Port Townsend located right at the entrance Florian Graner and aquarist already have a name for the or Ellie for short. I'm really excited to see into her new environment She's getting the biggest tank here Okay. Oh wow, she is getting She likes her critter carrier. It's so nice down there Eleonora's body is fist-sized, her tentacles already span she is around 2 years old. She is just marvellous, she is It's a different thing that I am gonna be the one and gets to spend time with her It's like meeting somebody. Ellie is still very shy, with everything so different here Her eyes are just ever so barely When I put her in there I kind of which would pick up the rocks instead she is just so small, she is just gonna cling on The little octopus must first On their Eastern side the Olympic into a long and deep side-fjord It is a hot spot for giant The sign warns of the octopuses. It does help to have a lot of when filming giant They are immensely strong and can move objects more than ten Every time Florian dives into a but he knows what he needs Finding a giant Pacific octopus You just look for fresh crab and The octopus examines the diver The big animals are shy They are not alone down here. The next retreat is taken up With their powerful jaws, they crack open crabs, mussels They can get up to 6 feet long and compete with octopuses Wolf eels regularly share a den Like any old couple they certainly But when it is important, one protects their castle, while Hundreds of millions of years ago, ancestors of octopuses like snails and mussels. Octopuses and squid sacrificed for greater freedom of movement This can be costly ... ... especially when a group of The bulls can reach 10 feet in Even the much smaller females can With Steller sea lions prodding the octopus quickly retreats and starts to build a wall blocking the entrance But at first, the sea lions are Even when they are just curious, these predators can get quite or even tearing holes While Florian enjoys it's a very different ball game utilizing the suction cups the octopus hauls in rocks This deliberate action clearly from their snail and Intelligence is its This nosy gang of Steller sea lions The octopus flees using By rapidly forcing water out of disappearing into the depth by ... and by obscuring the vision of Florian finds the octopus again much deeper in the fjord - The sea lions must have bitten and rendering the octopus But octopuses have another they can regrow their arms. Octopuses don't have it easy To survive, they must be smart Port Townsend, at the entrance used to be an important early Founded in 1851, the town is old featuring vintage The Port Townsend Marine Science and focuses on Salish Sea marine After a week, Eleonora has already You think you can sneak up on me? You can't sneak up on me! Today the little octopus And Florian is also excited Then Ellie's pupil turns into a ... and makes a grab for No glass in the way up here - Somebody is a sticky octopus. My boys love me for chocolate cake and you love me for frozen And then Ellie's suction cups The highly flexible sensory organs In addition to lending octopus arms through suction power they are also loaded with literally tasting the objects Suddenly Ellie turns herself ... rubbing her suction cups to remove spent and hardened that no longer grow with her. This is a fascinating ritual that the marine biologist has Today's meal is a popsicle: ice with herring, mussels Ellie's cohabitant, a giant pink But Ellie doesn't like sharing. Her mouth is located at the centre where the eight arms meet. Beyond the small opening hides which cuts much like and is the only hard part As Ellie sifts through the popsicle some edible pieces also reach but Pinkie, the sea star, Five legs meet eight arms, tube feet meet suction cups. Both Pinkie and Ellie represent that diverged several hundred They could not be more different. The starfish, with its has no chance against I know, you are trying to get I see what's happening. Do you want to move? You can come with me this way. Don't! No don't steal the clam! No, I will give you another one. I will give you another one. Alexandra tries to settle She like very definitively You are turning into Oh she still has her fish! I forgot - I thought she has eaten She can do multitasking. And you have bonded a little bit Ellie has been busy with the clam She opens the shell with Florian is getting everything Diving at night is always Different animals emerge from the Because it's pitch black around on what appears in the beam in You also see different behaviours. Giant Pacific octopuses like to and I much more likely to see them The marine biologist has visited the den of this female She has learned to accept the Today they are not alone: her den has attracted the curiosity Florian hopes for an But the male is not The mating ritual of octopuses after intimate courtship the male into the mantle cavity But this young fellow Octopuses only reproduce so females are extremely picky This male was quite likely She will patiently wait for a much It is the only time in the life when these usually seek the company of their His time may still come ... The night dive was a success Encounters like these are Ellie has been in the aquarium She has grown a lot since then Alexandra regularly conducts with mental challenges for Ellie. Is that going to go further down? Depends what she is going Faced with tasks unlikely Ellie immediately tackles with curiosity and determination. Thanks to her suction cups ... her excellent eyesight and she quickly finds a solution and With a combination of physical The ability to recognize problems, and the use of tools is reminiscent of highly developed mammals A feat the rockfish Come - good girl! Oh, that is beginning After this Ellie is up for close contact She even seems to have Hi - what are you gonna do? Hey! What are you doing? No Don't make me discipline you! Now Ellie is really "Arrgh - she is still she is just like: I will I know. But I don't want my hand I know we are working on I should trust you and Aquarist Alexandra has a lot of her eight legs are not only she also has that sharp beak For humans, a bite For her favourite prey, Her hunting strategy first sneak up slowly ... ... then a quick grab. The crab defends itself, but its claws can't get a grip A single bite and she injects the debilitating And she can't get enough: she has when she already goes for Why else would you have eight arms? To avoid any confusion, coordinates the eight small brains, located directly which control each Ellie demonstrates why octopuses are the ultimate Back in the wild Florian waits patiently in front of Startled by a school of rockfish a red rock crab walks directly All the soft-bodied monster is stretch out a single arm, and bite. The venomous cocktail The crab cemetery in front of of the proficiency of When prey is spotted, the central to the eight nerve centres in the The small brains in the tentacles this is where the majority of A very efficient way to coordinate alien to us but tested and refined As another crab approaches, a 'thinking octopus arm' extends to for the other arms to deliver it An octopus can catch and process hunt and feed simultaneously. This is the ultimate form Sunflower sea stars are attracted in front of the octopus den, a source of food for scavengers The octopus ejects the leftovers out of its mantle cavity attracting prawns quarrelling Some crabs also don't object on the remains of other crabs. Even striped sea perches and California sea cucumbers fetch their share of the octopus Because even this eventually fills up Ellie has now been enjoying in the Port Townsend's Marine nothing remains of her If her mind does not constantly she gets bored quickly. Then she impatiently waits for more attached to the glass wall. Finally, Florian arrives. Ellie can clearly distinguish that when the marine something interesting happens. Excited, she greets him wrapping her tentacles tenderly each suction cup touch She is actually absorbing and memorizing the taste Let's put you inside the After this intimate interlude, it's time for another test These are getting more complex Ok Should we do some Mega Bloks? Sounds good to me. We have got some pieces of fish and we stuck it together and one of the best aspects about we can actually make a unique every time she receives this. This is the largest one so I am excited to see Immediately Ellie each of her arms is covered well over 2,000 in total! With these, she is able to feel and taste an incredible amount Every suction cup can be controlled independently and deliberately. Ellie is capable of directing the information of 2,240 of these After just 2 minutes, she has already cracked Next test please! A stellar summer sunset for Florian to embark on another During this time of the year the full of plankton including the Florian has found an old friend The octopus seems irritated of hundreds of tiny crustaceans attracted by the light But the wild octopus is still happy to accept In the meantime reef fish of the buffet gathering in front of The mass of excited plankton who chooses to retreat into the The giant Pacific octopus can squeeze through the narrowest As long as the only hard part, Copper rockfish now take of the bounty in front of Florian is on the road to Seattle, the regions lively and On the other side of the Bay and the huge harbour as well as he is headed for a unique The old harbour basin offers plenty This site has a reputation and Florian is revisiting a site where he last saw The beady strands hanging between This female has started the last She has mated some month ago until the time was right Then she attached well over to the ceiling of her den. Now she constantly sweeps her arms keeping them clean and well With her jet, the exhaling siphon she constantly ejects fresh, Not even a crab walking straight into what normally will distract her now. This female octopus will now remain until the larvae hatch Then this nursery will become For those who have only witnessed it is difficult to comprehend lies beneath this massive stretching 100 miles ... and dropping to 930ft of depth. It was here, where Eleonora was In the meantime she has grown in the Port Townsend For a change, the menu today And Ellie displays a further and a hunting technique which even the marine biologist She just does it all the time now Between her arms, Ellie has fine, usually retracted If needed she can extend this into an impressive web ... ... leaving the shrimp little This technique is also effective A careful approach ... ... and Ellie unfolds her With this feature Ellie can also into her hunting strategy. The skin web is unleashed by tiny muscles in the skin folds Just like the skin lobes, which octopuses use to obscure and to mimic their surroundings effectively camouflaging The hornlike lobes above the eyes It becomes clear to Florian that for the quickly growing The marine biologist has been able to other octopuses living in the I spent a lot of time underwater out in the sound. And I got to know They really have their and I find it easy to connect Despite them being so very that is exactly what I find so This fascination appears to be The octopus reaches out to Florian as if it was a greeting ceremony. Today the equipment seems to Then the octopus even emerges However, the marine biologist during encounters like this. While giant Pacific octopuses they could pull the mask off his Then the octopus retreats and starts with that strange the biologist had only ever in the aquarium. In a ball of rotating arms the octopus rubs the suction cups thereby removing the old which are replaced with new This grooming method is part of and needs to be performed the discs do not grow Florian has only seen Ellie Like in a grand finale the octopus with a powerful jet Displaying this grooming behaviour is certainly a sign of trust from Back in the Marine Science Center, Ellie's return to the ocean 11 months ago she was discovered now a big bucket serves as Our goal is to keep her as and also keep her submerged in the Ellie is relaxed and has no The transfer into the transport net Alexandra is anxious to direct "Huhhh - everything is going so I am kind of waiting for The time has come. Florian will Eleonora is in the Ocean! Alexandra passes the release net A final look ... ... and they both disappear Florian has already located a hollow tree trunk used by Ellie readily leaves the net. Then, as if she had never lived she moves into her new home. With her tentacles spanning 10 but she is now big enough to be She has become quite a predator There is an abundance of prey here. Once more, Ellie shows Florian hopes she will settle into Seattle is well-known for symbolically portraying humans quite like solitary Yet there is pulsating life below the surface of the sound. For 7 months the female octopus has been relentlessly guarding and Soon, tens of thousands of larvae With a jet of sea water, the mother blows the first of the and out of the den. They are hardly bigger ... but already equipped drifting away with the Entire batches of octopus larvae joining the pool of plankton. Few of them will survive. After hatching, they are not profiting from the intelligence With the last larvae disappearing their mother dies of exhaustion. It does get under your skin how a female octopus devotes the They only get to be four To see such an intelligent animal with all its memories and without being able to communicate is really a strange concept to me. It's been a few days since Ellie's Florian is on a mission to find A family of river otters It's been a week now and Ellie I am delighted to see her again. She looks great and satisfied and Florian is relieved and happy. Sadly this was the final meeting When Florian returned the next time Typical for giant Pacific deeper into the fjord searching Each time I see giant Pacific I have to think of Ellie. How we To me octopuses are aliens It is as if evolution conducted with intelligent life. One leading to birds, mammals to this multi-talented, soft-bodied Which leads me to a strange idea: What if octopuses lived to would they then dominate life