Every month. you just you're waiting This is Karolina, she runs one of the most difficult and dangerous We just always said: they put up a hoop, we learn how to jump it. They set it on fire, they raise it, and we constantly jump through that hoop. Karolina operates clinic right on the border of Virginia, and Tennessee, where it was banned in 2022. Tennessee's trigger laws will criminalize If a doctor gives one, they would be looking at 3 to 15 years in prison. Since Roe versus Wade was overturned But here's the thing-- clinics were closing before the decision as well. If this clinic closes, Kentucky would be the first The last abortion clinic in Mississippi. A Christian fundamentalist group And that has a ripple effect The reality is when health centers close, because of the Dobbs Enshrining the rights of Roe is critical, but just as critical is the need to build Providers in states without bans are struggling and there are ways we can support them right now. This is the Class Room for More Perfect Union, and we're spending a day with the workers at Bristol run an abortion clinic. So right now, we're driving from Tennessee Tennessee has one of the strictest bans on abortion There's 21 states right now and Virginia is the only state in the South And right across This is Terrie, who runs the front desk. 12 patients came in that day Last year, one in five people seeking abortion Planned Parenthood might have the name recognition, but 55% of abortions in America are done in small An abortion It's not the care that's different, abortions are a safe and routine procedure, but the barriers that states and cities The first thing is just the cost of care. Most patients pay out of pocket, because many private and federal Medicaid, insurance, doesn't cover abortion at all. This is because of the Hyde Amendment named after pro-life Republican Henry Hyde. You might remember Joe Biden long support of the Hyde Amendment, If I believe health care is a right, as I do, I can no longer support an amendment that makes that The Hyde and came just a few years after Roe in 1977 American rights are often what are called you have a right for the government but you don't actually affirmatively Only 17 states allow Medicaid coverage for abortion and 11 states so clinics like the one in Bristol and often have to subsidize We wouldn't be here without funding organization the price of a medical abortion We need to zoom out and talk about why Roe versus Wade made abortion didn't become a part of regular health care. 50% of abortions were taking place in hospitals, One of the main initiatives of the post-Roe abortion Many hospitals and the physicians working there It was politically risky: hospitals could jeopardize their funding and it was politically divisive: hospitals didn't want to deal with protesters. Clinics were seen as an alternative way to give By 1989, the number of hospitals and 86% of abortions were happening in clinics. But the boom of stand alone they were easier to target. Operation Rescue, the radical anti-abortion group. infamous anti-abortion organizations of the 1980s From 1988 to 1992, There were always protests and pickets even when hospitals were doing it But the degree of risk seemed to grow a lot in the 1980s. By the 1990s, things became even more dire because that was when you had a rash of abortion Dr. George For years, Tiller was a lightning rod for abortion new fears some of whom are now being offered George Tiller was a mass murderer and horrifically, he reaped what he sowed. Patients arrive and find protesters outside, but the clinic has three defenders Barb, Dani, and Jesse. These people are deprived of a normal health care visit because of how it's gone hideously wrong in the last 20 years. Somebody should be here to say it's okay. Whatever you choose, I'm here to make it A little bit... I won't even say easier It just says you're not a horrible person, As the anti-abortion movement grew and as pickets and blockades continued, This stigma produces unexpected costs. Unless you own your real estate, it's They may say, even, we support what you do, It can be challenging just to get basic They have absolutely no problems going into a dentist's office, but they may not want to come to an abortion clinic. The state of Virginia has additional restrictions. physicians are allowed to perform abortions, Nurses Laws like this are sometimes known as TRAP laws-- targeted regulation of abortion providers. anti-abortion activists design laws New laws limiting abortion have been enacted That 2013 law required all abortion clinics to be built to the standards These new regulations were pitched as common sense but instead just made abortions Clinics would have to go through as surgical centers, Providers would be required and they would have to get admitting privileges That means a provider has to have access It's extremely rare for an abortion but seven states required this new regulation. And because a lot of hospitals are Catholic-run, with abortion providers. 83 clinics closed between 2011 and 2017 in states that passed TRAP laws. This created health care deserts across the Midwest and South, So now we're going to Knoxville, Tennessee. Karolina used to have a clinic there. It had been there since 1973 when Roe became law and for a long time, there were only two clinics One was Karolina's, But in 2021, that place was burned down. On December 31st, the Knoxville Planned Parenthood Now, at five, Planned Parenthood clinic was intentionally set. Violence against clinics has risen sharply Clinic workers have reported stalking, burglaries, from entering facilities and death threats. The Knoxville Planned Parenthood is now operating out of a mobile clinic, When I met them, they were parked If a health center closes, in a lot of ways we are really, for some folks, the only care that So the reality is, is that sort of safety net This just gives us We've been really blessed. The church has been wonderful and with all the construction guys, And we've not really had any pushback that we've felt. The Planned Parenthood but won't reopen until the summer of 2024. The mobile clinic no longer provides abortions, control, STI testing and gender Medical care for too many people is a scary thing. And being a LGBT person and not having doctors who understand it's hard to find places In states that are hostile to abortion providers, it's much harder OB-GYNs are leaving banned states and hospitals are having trouble 5.6 million women now live in Karolina has worked and she knows this work can be an uphill battle. Three months after she opened the clinic in Bristol, an ordinance We weren't welcomed with open arms, obviously, There are pros and cons of having these indie Like Crys mentioned, and trust But relying on specialized clinics More people live near a hospital than live near There are many ways states and keep clinics open, even in a post-Roe world. More medical professionals can be trained TRAP laws that still exist, like waiting periods Federal Title X funding provides STI and but can be expanded even more as demand Karolina also says that more people should talk We have had more interest in abortion care and I hope in my lifetime that we're not special. I hope in our lifetime we just become a normal part of health care. Thanks for watching the Class Room This video was part of our series about jobs in America If there's another industry just comment below and as always,