After so many episodes, What are we waiting for? It's been so long (Host Chen Hanwei) Hanwei! -Why are you here today? I'm here to hand you the prompt... and learn from you how to visit families So you're going to replace me, aren't you? I don't mind if I have the chance to Vegetarian? He's vegetarian Yes -Okay, and then? &quot;Leave it to me&quot;. Here -To you To you, don't be so polite -To you To you -All right, then. Yes I am Grace. I am a mother of two My kitchen is very messy right now, but it's very easy for me to retrieve things I hope my new kitchen... can allow me to cook happily, host my relatives and friends... and invite them to my kitchen for good food -Here Is the homeowner in? Hello! -Hello Hello, Grace -Welcome Hello Okay. It feels quite comfortable as I enter Yes, lighting is good and it feels quite cool It also doesn't feel very dirty You're very lucky I'm telling you, when I walked in, this entire place felt very calm to me What do you usually do at home? I cook three meals for my children We are all vegetarian It's healthier to cook our own meals What about your work? You work as... My work involves repairing Buddha statues Dealing with damaged statues, is my expertise That's pretty impressive -Yes But our focus today isn't the living room No -Our focus is on her kitchen I have too many things in my kitchen Really? More so than over here? (I can't tell...) (Seriously...) (Are they going to be (or shocked?) This is my kitchen It's not that bad. I'm not frightened, really It's quite all right -Yes, indeed As it turns out, Hanwei, your job is so easy My first time visiting was a walk in the park No wonder you don't want me to come along! This is the neatest kitchen I've ever seen Thank you -Perhaps I shouldn't say neat But it has fewer things But the greatest problem Here's what I think. Please let me pass I noticed one thing This door is very narrow to begin with, yet you placed a cabinet here... to block your way I also incidentally some shelves in front of the fridge... that would block the way There is another cabinet here We just bought this cabinet this year The cabinet wasn't here originally That wooden shelf was originally here, but everything on it was very messy, so I bought this cabinet... to keep things neat and tidy Keep things neat, open it and see -Okay Let us see what's inside Considered quite neat, okay -Not bad This shelf is a little messy I couldn't find a way to organize it -What do you mean? -Look, things are placed one after another I need to learn from you You can't say that, okay? (Explode on the spot) What is neat and tidy? It means that or you know how to categorize everything -Categorize -We specifically found someone to teach you This kitchen isn't very spacious... and you have an L-shaped counter This counter jutting out is redundant You should have made it longer... or shifted it over there... so that you'd have -You wouldn't have this extra... So you have a narrower space to walk Yes, perhaps because you're small in stature, However, visually speaking, I don't think this works There are many... (Things are getting bad!) At one glance, you look like a great chef Cooking makes things convenient. I have all the food and ingredients I need I just cook whenever I want to eat Do you usually cook for your children too? -Of course I cook whenever they want to eat I come to the kitchen -I'll begin... -You can cook the moment you wake up The space here isn't big to begin with -She wouldn't have space to cook So when you wake up in the morning, before going to the kitchen Yes I love cooking because we couldn't keep dining out, so I diligently learned how to cook... and honed my cooking skills... so that my children That's how I picked it up There's no space at all for you to sit down You need to prepare breakfast, right? -Yes Do you do everything there? -Yes -You make breakfast on this table? Let me move this away You can prepare breakfast for three You're truly impressive So you prepare breakfast, everything in this tight space? I use that stool I place the pot on the stool -Not easy The dough for buns You make buns from scratch? -Yes So &quot;leave it to me&quot; is a pun on &quot;buns&quot;, which Grace makes -You don't just cook, but you make buns too? That's impressive. Yes, not me, but her -All right. Stop shirking responsibility You basically use this to knead dough? -Yes It's very hard to do so! -I have to adapt You're supposed to have space, I think that for this homeowner, although her flat and kitchen she shares the same problem which is her tendency to keep things I saw something even more interesting What is this? -This is for exercising Do you put it on? -This is very good -It can correct our spine Just put it on -Your spine isn't that good Don't wear it! Wait, I want to give it a go. Like this? Yes You need to stable yourself and try it out Like this -Try it out It's about your sense of balance -Yes When you wear this, you have to stand still -Stand straight, yes Yes Today was Herman's and he wasn't redundant At least he taught me He does have some common sense... youngsters have that I don't Not bad I realized that you're not just healthy but also in terms of healthcare and wellness Health comes first You probably take Is that so? Impressive. On the topic of health, I saw that you have some plants They are all edible They have nutritional benefits. What are you doing over there? What is this? -This is edible. For him It's edible -He really ate it! -This tastes a little bitter What is this? I don't know, -Spit it out -It makes them healthy No pain, no gain, right? -Well said Can all the plants here be eaten? -Yes How did you find the seeds to plant? Did you hear about it from someone or you... I heard about it from the elders Some seniors plant medicinal herbs... so I asked them for some seedlings They started growing the moment This space is really quite small It is a little messy with the plants I have one more question You have a radio here -Yes Do you listen to it I listen to 958 every day Our loyal listener -Yes Okay, here comes the most important point What requests do you have What functions do you hope to have? A space where I can very comfortably... cook and prepare food Okay. Secondly? I also hope to have a space... to wash my clothes -What else? A space for that? -A space to place her radio Okay. What else? A space conveniently designed for me That's another one. What else? -Storage I don't have a storeroom here I hope to have some very good And a fridge that is this big -A fridge is very important. What else? -Do you want the family to eat together? A space for the family to have meals together Seven functions. Anything else? Also, you said that You can't keep using this pot, can you? Yes -Basically, eight functions Well? Can I leave it in your hands? No, we'll leave it in And the expert organizer -We'll leave it in your hands. All the best! Herman, you've seen her kitchen What do you think is the greatest problem? I think Grace's kitchen is very well-used There are many kitchen appliances in that small space So we must find a way to help her House Everything? ... will give her -In that case, I'll leave it in your hands What? -Okay, let's do it together Let's go I am Samuel Combining elements of different styles... and creating ideal is my design philosophy Let Samuel take a look Grace, we got Samuel, your saviour, to help you out What is your first impression of the kitchen? I feel like the furniture layout... makes the space narrower She has many unnecessary cabinets... blocking this door in this tight space Thankfully, you're not fat If you were, Not just that. Look at her table It is L-shaped, quite special It blocks the way when you walk Organizing and storing the food... might cause some problems Her cooking area is right in front, but here is where she keeps her ingredients When she needs to take condiments and so on, she needs to walk here It doesn't seem very convenient The cabinets themselves are problematic The ones at the bottom are older in style They are for display The ones at the top are for storage The next time she wants to store things, she has to climb up very high to do so Yes -It's a little dangerous The key is the lighting. -It is a problem. Let's go over and see This is the so-called lighting, a tiny window This makes the entire kitchen very dim I see that these plants... aren't displayed in the right place I feel like... if they were placed somewhere better, the lighting would be better You really must take They are her precious darlings You must give her space She has other needs, such as this radio She wakes up every morning Not just that, and over there, she makes dough every morning Also, a space to cook Do you think that's okay? I will find a way There isn't much space so that table is very important too It's a challenge for you. Most importantly, -Grace, we'll leave it in his hands, okay? Okay, all the best -It's all yours I am Au-Yong Haw San Organization is an art Turning chaos into order is my mission Welcome, San! I think Grace's things... look tidy and not tidy at the same time Yes! -How should I describe it? I think most people are like that They know where their things are kept, but outsiders like us But when you ask them where something is, they will immediately Let's test her. For example, Over here -See? She really knows! Okay We begin from desired functions every time Grace, what do you want to do here? What activities do you do? I cook -And then? I wash clothes and dry clothes -That's... I sometimes rest here. I'll listen to... You rest here? -Yes, because I go to the kitchen... She has a radio over there Yes, her radio -That's not the point The point is, when she listens to music, which is to tend to her plants That too, yes I see that her things here... all seem to fulfil the functions she wants Right? -Absolutely If all the things at home are being used, we can decide how many based on the number of people at home If there are more things we should keep items and more necessary Firstly, I think we must move I think they really obstruct the way Okay, let's open it up and see Grace, can you tell us I use them every week San, I realized that... many housewives have one huge problem They always throw away the packaging... and keep things in another bag They end up not knowing the expiry date Yes. We can use ziplock bags to store things Write the expiry date on the ziplock bag Also, did you notice something? Food packaging sometimes... has desiccants in them But after we open the seal, Desiccants can be reused The key is, I find it very messy This is mine and San's favourite segment, which is to decide -We need to sift through everything This is already past its expiry date I haven't been cooking curry recently It's a waste. It's expired. Yes, throw it away -Bye This expired last year I didn't expect to see... Expired goods in your flat Here, let us see I found one more thing that is expired Year 2023 I'm throwing it away, no further questions This expired in 2021 It has expired for three years There is nothing in this world... that does not expire, apart from time Yes, but seaweed is... -And Hanwei Yes, always so young -So... Look -Seaweed won't spoil But... Okay, San This is a misconception of many housewives Even if this has been expired for 10 years, they think that seaweed won't expire Is that right? -No Food will expire In here, we are sweating quite badly So it is very humid here Germs grow rapidly in humid places It might even cause cancer Don't save money like this I strongly oppose That is not the right way of thinking You must learn that -Okay When storing food, we must ensure and regularly check its expiry date That way, we won't waste food For food that do not have expiry dates... I think the best way is to that does not have an expiry date indicated It's the safest buying You must heed this advice. Okay -So should we keep this bag? Since we don't know its expiry date, for all we know, -How should we deal with it? Because... -Why? You didn't learn what I just taught you! Okay, let's go home Of course, as a housewife, although the food doesn't have she insists that it's not expired She wants to save money. But it is a matter of principle I won't allow it, I'll never allow it To protect them, Those that don't have expiry dates, I'll just throw them out, okay? You can't throw this bag It can't be found just anywhere This is seaweed Why can't you find this? It's seaweed This is rectangular in shape How are these two different? This is from China There is another one here. (Seaweed expert) This is round-shaped seaweed Look, it says 2017 too I don't know if it expired in 2017 or what It's expired -2017? This wasn't bought in 2017. Even if it's not expired, let's say it was manufactured in 2017, how many years has it been? Do you still dare to eat it? I wouldn't dare -She would say... This is organic seaweed I don't care Whatever it is, no way No way! I'm not talking to you about it any more! -Very good! I think the hardest thing today... was not tidying up the entire kitchen, but changing Grace's mindset She has a mind of her own... and her ways of thinking are deep-rooted We have to allow some time to change that Okay, so for this entire box, Grace, you know what to do, right? We'll leave it to you It is very messy here Look, some beverages, some meds... Some... -Snacks Kettles, utensils, it's so messy here I wonder how you take anything at all Why is there a bag of rice here? Why is there a bag of rice here? I'll put it back later -Put it where? Where do you keep your rice? Yes, there are quite a lot of bags here I'm not cooking today so I'll put it back -Take them out Why are there There are many more! -There are more 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 bags here Come, explain yourself Why are some bags of rice open? This bag of rice was supposed to be poured The rice container isn't full yet It contains a mix of I mix different rice together Did you see? The rice... -There are rice weevils inside When we wash rice, the rice weevils will be washed away However, they contaminate We can wash the rice weevils away, but not their faeces -There are bugs at the bottom Yes, there are! -Look! Don't touch Do you see it? So many Do you see it? A lot here too -These are what we call rice weevils, right? (Grains with a lot of rice weevils We've come to this area. We'll start with the kettle 1, 2, here -3 Why do you need four kettles? Let me explain. This has never been used Because... -Why did you buy it? My friend gave it to me -Okay, it's a gift This was also given by a friend I accidentally dropped this It's broken -The cover... Only the cover is broken -It's working perfectly well inside -What about this? -Very good Is it reasonable for a family... to have one to boil water and another Two is enough Basically, we should If it's a little dangerous with the risk It doesn't -We can recycle it Because it is plastic -Do you understand? As for these two we want to keep, Okay, another thing is, why do you have so many blenders? 1, 2, 3 At one glance, they are all dirty These are... Again, they are clean inside Were you going to say that? Look at this rice container. Is it clean? It's clean inside, but dirty outside... because it put it on the floor If it's dirty outside, the dirt may go inside We'll wash the rice Don't put the rice container on the floor It's very oily. Grease gets on the floor Yes From what I can see, she doesn't have... hundreds of tea bags or beverages We've learned from just now that... you must discard expired food We'll store those that can still be eaten Let's call our helpers in a box for things to be kept We need this space to take a good look... at the scary fridge behind you Come on, helpers! Yes! The table is now cleared, I'll show you -Yes, I understand Let's see It's all grease stains, look -Right Since we're clearing the fridge now, I must wipe this place clean first, Or else, it would be too unhygienic Most of the things -What's this? There are some masks There are some masks -There's more Tea leaves -There are tea leaves And sweets -Chocolate, sweets What is this? -Oil We can store food that is not such as sweets, chocolate, sauces... and beverages Let's categorize them into sauces, We'll categorize them like this Which ones should be kept in the fridge It is indicated on the label &quot;Refrigerate after opening&quot; It is indicated that I have the habit of storing Is that right? If you use them every day, For things that are not used every day... and only once in a long while, Yes -Okay, that's great You've learned about sauces and condiments We'll now talk about dry goods Our parents were right to keep because they didn't have For example, bottles and jars There are many airtight What's more, we have food-grade desiccants, so we don't need to Avoid keeping them -What about skincare products? Why? Sometimes, when the weather gets hot, they might want to apply it cold It's cooling and feels more refreshing It's not a must to keep masks in the fridge No, that's right. Yes -It's all sealed up You put it in the fridge The coldness doesn't make your skin firmer Yes -No such thing, all right? There are also many Many of them -Many Wow, so many Let the audience take a look A pile of them here -Another pile there Come, explain yourself You said earlier that you use this Why? -I use this to keep food warm It has two layers Food can be kept warm -What about these? Occasionally? Otherwise, I use this and another one For the dough. And this? -For the dough I don't eat so much so I use this to cook I will change this out to a new one... because this is used for steaming buns What about this? -This is a rice cooker Rice cooker. What about this? I also use this every day Stir-fry food at a low temperature. The one below is used to cook soup Didn't you say that this one This is for cooking soup, Come here -For stewing overnight -When I eat alone, I don't eat so much... Yes, I sometimes cook two dishes This is to cook for a third person, right? Okay, the third one. And then? I used this to make What about this? I use this to make ang ku kueh, for kuehs Let me test you. Do you still remember? Me? I do -What is this for? She uses this to cook soup What else? It serves one more function To proof the dough -To proof the dough You already forgot the first one, while Grace can remember so much You clearly know how to cook very well The key is, do you need so many pots? How can we deal with these pots? How do we decide on them? Separate between those that are Frequently used For example, we should keep pots Take this pot as an example It can be used for steaming, cooking... and proofing dough -This can be kept It can steam food and proof dough Can you choose just one between If I have to, I'll throw that one away You actually can throw the largest pot away? Why? -Because this... Quick, don't let her see it! This is made with expensive steel We'll keep one large one These two Over here, basically, this is a rice cooker Just one, that's acceptable This is for stewing soup -Yes Acceptable. Yes, acceptable. She doesn't seem Yes, I'm going to switch out to a new one -This is broken Since you want to get a new one, we can just throw this away You're going to buy a new one anyway. We threw away three more pots. So happy Over here, let me bring it There are only three pots here. Here, take one -Throw that one away You decided so quickly? They are all of the same size, I think -You want to throw that away and keep two? I think she chose this because... It is dirtier and blacker -Yes This one is cleaner I feel quite happy Although she couldn't bear because she didn't want to waste money, she picked up on things fast To be honest, for the pots... and expired food, she decided to throw them out very quickly I think she learned that very fast. (The next day) (Working hard to organize things herself) I designed Grace's new kitchen... in modern wabi-sabi style Wabi-sabi style... gives a calm and down-to-earth vibe In this style, we used colours that are closer to nature I chose beige for this design What details and elements I used wooden flooring... and some flowers and plants Apart from these details, I realized that... you used low saturation marble This wall is also She will surely like this detail (First day of renovation) (Renovation in progress) Grace's small kitchen... needs to accommodate many different functions Washing and drying clothes is one of them We'll be solving this problem today In consideration of Grace's small stature... and the fact that she's getting old, drying clothes becomes more troublesome So today, we're here to check out All right There are many models here Yes, these models all have the same function, which is that they can automatically go up This way, it'll be easier for Grace to use She doesn't need to climb up to dry clothes One more thing is, when it hits an obstacle, it will automatically stop That way, she can use it with peace of mind Great. Which model are we looking at today? Over there, a sunlight-mimicking model Come on, let's go check it out Will the clothes not become dry Don't worry about that This automated clothes drying rack... also has heat-drying Even if it's raining outside, you can still dry your clothes Yes, this automated clothes It can reach every corner and ensure that the clothes are evenly heated That way, the clothes can dry very easily Grace, come and feel the wind strength Be careful not to get blown away! I can feel it But my kitchen is so small Won't my clothes smell bad As long as you use the air-drying the system will automatically When these ions are released, they can help protect against Grace, I know you've always... placed much importance With these functions, you don't need to worry Will clothes discolour or go out of shape... if I dry them like this? The temperature of the warm wind It can be used to dry clothes... without discolouring or shrinking them For more delicate clothes, you can use cold air to dry it This automated clothes drying rack... solves your problem with drying clothes It'll be more convenient for you You need to try it out right now You'll be the one using this Yes, let me try it out -Quick, teach her Press this (Day of completion) Welcome Come, Grace. Hello So you're her eldest son? -Yes How may I address you? -Zhenyan Zhenyan, right? -Zhenyan, yes Hello. Do you know that in this family, Yes -You know that, don't you? Do you know what the other sweetheart is? My mother, of course That's her kitchen Her kitchen is Yes. Grace, you haven't seen How do you feel? Nervous? I feel very nervous and excited Okay, come on in and check it out Here, please come in Come on Do you see it? Before you even walk in, we built a door for you It was previously an accordion door, but now, see how convenient this door is Just slide it open and push Please head in! Hello! You just looked at the kitchen You didn't even notice the two of us, right? She really wanted to see this -She can't wait to use this kitchen, right? (A fresh new look Well, what do you think? I'm very pleasantly surprised, I feel very grateful -Not bad How did you achieve this effect? Seriously, when I opened the door, this kitchen looked completely new to me The colour tones of modern wabi-sabi but I used warmer colours here I chose beige as a neutral tone... and I chose to use wooden flooring too They are actually wood effect tiles Okay -So they are more durable I realized that the entire layout had changed How did you come up with this idea? The cooking and dishwashing area Her seasoning area was here I've put them all together... to make it convenient -She can take seasonings from here... Where are the condiments? -Here Oh, over here Take condiments from here and cook there Wash dishes at that spot She can prepare ingredients -Place bowls and plates, right? Is that so? Okay, do you know Behind you -Behind me? Turn around and take a look -Take a look There is a radio here. Yes -There's a radio This is great This is a mini surprise from... our production crew to you Grace always listens to... our radio programme in the kitchen, right? You hung it there previously, remember? You just found any random hook and you plugged it in anyhow you like It looks so beautiful displayed here, right? Also, when you walk in, you can switch it on right away to listen to the radio Apart from this surprise here, there are many more in store for you Let's go over there to take a look, okay? Here, come with me Grace, do you realize that It's much brighter Potted plants were blocking sunlight from coming in... and making this area dimmer Now, I've hung the potted plants on the wall. Shifting the potted plants to this corner... makes it look neater and tasteful I also realized that Is there a reason for it? The wooden strips giving it different grains and design vibes Do you remember the thing above my head? -The automated clothes drying rack Samuel moved the entire laundry area here Washing machine and dryer They're kept inside when they're not in use, You can put your clothes in here Put dirty clothes inside, yes I think Samuel has been You said that you made things convenient... for Grace at the cooking area That's the same for the laundry area too All the dirty clothes will be on the left She can just reach out and throw them then hang and dry clothes up there Doesn't this make laundry very convenient? Convenient, very convenient -Exactly I also realized that is in the same colour Are you preparing yourself to take a photo? You can go over there to snap a photo Yes, Grace previously told me that so I built a feature wall here... with pink as the main colour This chair is also pink in colour, specially for Grace Don't you find this table a little small? If Grace frequently sits here to knead dough isn't it too small? You can extend the table out like this It can seat three people A family of three -It can even seat four What other surprises do you have, Samuel? There is a dish drying rack there The convenient thing you don't need to tip-toe to reach it Just pull it down -That's much more convenient, isn't it? Do you know what your mum has done She cooks for my younger brother and me Yes, all three meals, right? Yes. She folds our clothes too She folds clothes here? Is that so? What else? Bake bread, listen to the radio and rest Anything else? -What else? He knows quite a lot Yes, the key is, over the years, have you come into the kitchen Yes, but one day, my mum told my brother and me... to focus on our studies... and let her handle everything at home From that day on, she would... tell us to go study whenever we had time She single-handedly bore the burden We are really thankful for a mother like her Yes, your mother really dotes on you two, so you have to be filial to her Understand? -Yes Come in more frequently hang clothes up and cook Don't just bring her out to eat, okay? All right, now that that's clear, next up, we'll have San here to help us... teach you how to store your things, okay? Let's welcome San San, you know that from morning till night, right? We're counting on you today This place wasn't a kitchen previously Today, we'll teach her No problem -Grace You cook every day, don't you? -Yes You can't do without these seasonings How did you arrange them previously? -On the counter? That's a really bad habit That's not good. It's dirty and messy You can't find it when you need it, right? Samuel specially designed... this cabinet for you to store seasonings If I leave it to you, Grace, I don't think I understand how -Try it out Consider your habits You might think that you use this frequently, or so on and so forth I might do it like this too This is deeper, so I'll place a larger bottle in it - Just do a few, don't do everything Watch out! -That's not right Okay, I think you really have no clue Thankfully this is made of plastic If it were glass, it would have been broken. Due to the design of the shelves, this entire cabinet should We can store granular seasonings elsewhere We must first categorize them Yes Grace has categorized them The middle layer is deeper As for smaller bottles, you can see that, for example, this is made of glass... and this is plastic This is heavier, right? Place the heavy ones at the bottom Place the lighter or smaller ones on top For example, for this bottle of oil, you use oil frequently There is a hole... that goes all the way down to the bottom Powder or granular seasonings... that are in solid forms Between liquids and solids, solids will absorb We should try not to keep them together Everything kept in here Yes. Where should we put these, then? On the counter top? Of course not -Of course not Don't worry. I've got this -Yes You have a secret weapon! -A secret weapon These are smaller bottles, right? Why use these smaller bottles? Where did these bottles come from? These bottles used to contain something else When it's empty, we can wash it clean Recycle and reuse it -Reuse it Yes, don't let it go to waste -You can only do this with glass bottles Don't do this with plastic bottles, right? Plastic will... It will affect the food inside Let's repackage some of these seasonings Look at this lid. It might have been and slowly became looser with time When we pour it... over a pot of hot water, When you pour it, the holes slowly become blocked... due to the moisture It will affect the pepper powder inside Is that why you want to and store it in another container? -Yes Pour it straight in After popping the lid on... I have a new secret weapon today Label it with a pen? Grace, if you were to label it, I'd write &quot;pepper powder&quot; -What else? What else? The most important point Yes, that is very important, The expiry date? Yes, Grace knows What is a better spot to paste it over? If you paste it at the side, when we take it... Let me explain why When we store it like this, you would need If you label it on top, and grab it right away The next thing to deal with and chopsticks, right? We must separate utensils and those used for eating After categorizing kitchenware, When arranging storage boxes, leave some space between them Kitchenware can also be placed in there That will reduce the number After categorizing the cutlery, keep it in storage boxes This way, you can better utilize San, every home kitchen must have pots Stew pots, slow cookers, claypots and so on How should we deal with them? Claypots and electric cookers... are larger in size and heavier I understand If older people need to carry them, they should not be kept So you recommend keeping Yes, the heavier ones... can be taken straight out like this San, we've come to the segment involving... storing dry goods and rice Singapore's weather is very humid, so we cannot just keep If we were in Countries with winter Yes, it wouldn't be so humid However, Singapore is very, very humid If we keep it like this, -Okay We'll keep the unopened ones... on the other side, okay? For the opened packets, we need to repackage them They should be transparent too That way, you can easily and it's also more convenient Basically, just like before, after repackaging the pepper powder, label the contents Yes, the expiry date Okay, we need to remember this later Otherwise, you wouldn't know what it is Okay, done These dry goods are all dealt with We now need to keep the rice, right? Yes. You have three packets of rice Rice should be kept in airtight boxes Humidity and temperature are high Yes -Rice weevils hatch very easily Grace has many different types of rice Is this amount okay? Or do you think one shouldn't buy so much? You just need to buy To prevent the growth of rice weevils, I have a secret weapon Chillies? Place chillies, cloves or desiccants inside Weevils hate the smell of spices These are all stored in containers now Neat and aesthetic -Yeah I feel so happy Right -Grace, what is the next step? Set up the cabinet Wrong! You missed out one step You learned it just now Why did we keep Label the food Yes. Do you know what type of rice this is? Brown rice -Brown rice, very good Let's see when its expiry date is May 2026 This is for the rice Should we keep these on top... or at the bottom? -We will keep them here It's better to keep them here If we keep them there, where should we paste the label? On top or at the side? -Write it on top Okay, impressive I feel happy just looking at it -You'll feel so happy cooking, right? Look, neat and tidy -You feel happy just looking at it, right? These containers are for opened packages You said that the other batch is packages that are still sealed How would you deal with them? Place unopened packages Is her answer correct? Yes, it is -Really? Why? It's easier to see when you pull it out What's more, she seldom needs it So she should keep them An accessible spot San, you think it's right This packaging is flatter... while this is thicker, right? This is rice too This rice expired back in 2023 This rice is sealed. I won't buy and accumulate The mission of our programme not to keep anything that's expired I really hope you'll learn this, okay? I know you can't bear to throw this away, but I don't think you should for the sake of these two bags of rice -I won't hoard things in future -Okay, say goodbye to it. Bye It's been tough on you all this while, raising your two children single-handedly, making breakfast, first thing in the morning Most importantly, our production crew... has taught you how to store your things... and given you such a beautiful kitchen The key is, you must know how to maintain it That way, your family and live on happily Grace, your little bad habits... shouldn't cause your efforts to go to waste Maintain this kitchen well... because we'll come back If you fail, we'll confiscate everything in your kitchen I have confidence in you You take care of your children so well, I'm sure you can maintain the kitchen well All the best -All the best! (Let go of stubbornness House Everything? and declutter in the right way Subtitles: Iyuno