Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of and this is one of this place is called You got it -- Thanks for joining us. As we return for we're enjoying an intimate look One of the great things amidst all its grandeur, the little joys of life We'll feel the pulse of Paris, to a magnificent We'll visit tour the world's and celebrate the mother with a big, patriotic Paris was born on this island and many of its from popular There's the Notre-Dame... And the Louvre Museum... And of course the Eiffel Tower, the 100th anniversary Paris glitters with history. Even the bridges, bestowed on the city tell a story. Beyond its glorious Paris is a city Delightful parks let commoners Here in Luxembourg Gardens, there's a tranquility enjoyed by young and old. The gardens are And for generations, children have launched dreams To establish I like to choose a neighborhood Strolling market streets Paris has For those learning the fine art market streets With the help of my local friend each shop provides an insight Delphine's planning a dinner Shopping on a street like this It's really nice. We are very lucky to able and have all these very which are very good 'Cause in America, We go to one big place. We have one-street One-street shopping, It's a market street, I think for the first course, to put some shrimps Okay. And so you see you have You have, like, different sizes as well, go for the &quot;moyenne,&quot; which are It looks very fresh. So we'll have some meat tonight and we'll use You know, my mum used to Rick: So you can You can trust the quality, they give you So I'm going to have and I'm going to ask the man [ speaks French ] [ man speaks French ] [ speaks French ] [ speaks French ] &quot;Merci, monsieur.&quot; Rick: So what So he said and for six people, 1,200 grams. For six? [ laughs ] So, Rick, a dinner without a cheese course so we have to go Before dessert, and we'll have an assortment of So you create a variety. I create a small plate So we'll have some -- some goat cheese, and some blue, some camembert, Rick: Good socially, It is very good because More wine, more cheese, So once we know we are going to Oh. Beautiful shop. Yes, it's very nice. &quot;Bonjour.&quot; We are going to and we are what I'm going to and he's going to pick Rick: In France, to choose from, He recommends a white a full-bodied red for the beef, and another white, for the cheese plate. Nice to have the advice for the little details In France, any good meal and that requires a visit Delphine: So you'll have No meal without Today's bread? No bread, no party. So we'll have and we'll have some for the cheese. Oh, so it's with the cheese course. Rick: And the final touch, Delphine: It's very bright and they're going to be It's great. Rick: We're hopping the Metro Paris has the most extensive and it's clearly the fastest and most economic way Trains come frequently The Marais is another distinct I'm always impressed and savor Parisian Once a mucky slum -- it was gentrified in by King Henry IV. With Henry's vision, Place des Vosges of the finest Stroll along its elegant, The park-like square is is not just a collection For millions of people, it's home -- a place to meet a lover, enjoy a relaxed retirement, or raise a family. In the 18th century, as Parisian high society immigrating Jews gradually In the historic heart of you'll find Paris' with kosher eateries that draw Strolling its pause and observe. It's a celebration The Marais is also the city's gay district, its lively cafes and clubs. And, straight or gay, make for fun Paris' original neighborhood, the Ile de la Cite, While a church has stood on this the iconic Gothic cathedral dedicated to &quot;notre dame,&quot; is only 700 years old. You can brave the line for and climb to the top But the church I like especially on Sunday mornings, is St. Sulpice, its magnificent pipe organ, For organ lovers, After Mass, enthusiasts like 16th notes into a world Before electricity, working out on these to fill the bellows The current organist, carries on the tradition of welcoming guests the organ in action. As his apprentices that engage a commotion of music lovers crowd around and watch the master at work. St. Sulpice has a rich history, with a line of going back over 300 years. Like kings or presidents, the lineage is and overseeing all this, This sacred music the spiritual sails as it has for centuries. The good life in Paris -- music, culture, its rich heritage is easy to take for granted, but today's freedoms that seems passionate didn't come to France and the pinnacle of an epic event that of its people to this day, The symbolic launch pad was a notorious prison which stood on this square. In 1789, released its prisoners, It's one of Europe's there's nothing left to see. While Parisian back lanes feel during times of revolution, Before French political leaders of subsidizing hungry peasant mobs in narrow lanes like these. Generals like Napoleon were fond of quieting chains and nails into cannon what they called Later, the government to modernize the city. He ripped up most of and created the city's Great city planning, it was great Heavy artillery with long, broad streets Paris was made easier to rule, Today, like a citywide game wide Parisian boulevards like the Pantheon... The old opera... The Arc de Triomphe... And the Hotel des Invalides. Built by Louis XIV in the 1600s this massive building Europe's greatest and, at its center, glitters with 26 pounds lies the tomb of Napoleon. It's hard to imagine a building dedicated to a mortal Gazing at Napoleon's tomb, I love to ponder the story who took France from to near total dominance and then, to near ruins. Just a humble kid from Corsica, went to military school He rose quickly during the tumultuous years By 1799, After that, France had conquered and Napoleon declared himself As the head of France's he blitzed Europe. His personal charisma was said to be worth Imagine Napoleon the emperor, The laurel wreath, the robes, proclaim him As emperor, to implement the ideals a well-designed Probably no single individual and yet built so much. To this day, for his legacy -- education system, But, ultimately, his megalomania Napoleon invaded Russia with and returned to Paris of what he started with. Two years later, and Napoleon was deposed. After a brief exile in 1850, Napoleon skipped parole where he bared his breast &quot;Strike me down For a hundred days, the people of France until finally in Belgium, once and for all by Exiled again, Napoleon spent on a remote island until he died in 1821. The Arc de Triomphe for the funeral procession home from exile in 1840. The arch is many military campaigns, on national holidays, It crowns the city's main drag. Europe's grandest boulevard Built for the queen it originated leading away from The population of France is and this is particularly true here in its The largest immigrant group former colonies in Africa, especially Muslims from Paris' mosque even though its cultural connections The challenge for both France is to assimilate comfortably into an ever more Welcoming visitors, the mosque's tranquil courtyard provides a calm in the midst of The adjacent Cafe de la Mosquee provides a tasty alternative Parisians and North Africans tagine, and a characteristic with the ambiance Nearby stands the home a partnership between France With a museum, its mission is to the Arab world and France. And from its the rest of the city beckons. The Palais du Louvre was once the palace and the biggest building Today, the vast, horseshoe-shaped palace, built in stages over with its striking houses the world's grandest These people are waiting but to buy a ticket With a city museum pass, more importantly, Anyone with this pass Once inside, the modern pyramid entry, It leads to three wings. We'll limit our visit The Louvre's huge collection covers art history to about 1850. It can be overwhelming. A key to enjoying your visit -- don't even try to Enjoy an excuse to return. Remember to look up long before it was a museum, this was Europe's and home of its In fact, royal French regalia, and the crown Napoleon wore This museum is one of opened to the public during I guess it just makes sense. You behead the king, and a vast royal open the doors, and &quot;voila&quot; -- The statue of Winged Victory the Louvre's ancient collection Two centuries before Christ, this wind-whipped masterpiece stood on a bluff celebrating And just past her stands an entourage of twisting each modeling Venus de Milo like a reigning beauty queen There must be more than in any other museum. The crowded grand gallery, displays only a small part We'll feature representative of Renaissance, Neoclassical, Francois I, the early 1500s, His private paintings became the core of It was trendy a Renaissance genius One of Europe's greatest kings, got Europe's top genius, Leonardo's work epitomized of the Renaissance, of his paintings demonstrates His &quot;Virgin of the Rocks&quot; illustrates his trademark the subtle modeling and, in landscapes, by making it hazier And this portrait, believed to be of the wife is Leonardo's With her enigmatic smile, she seems to enjoy Her body is solid a perfectly balanced pyramid, angled back so we can Her arm, adds stability And again, in Mona's dreamy backyard. For me, this painting balance, confidence, the age when Mona Lisa -- Like the museum, Napoleon was a product One of the Louvre's Europe's grandest coronation -- The pope traveled from Rome to but Europe's most famous crown confidently in hand, pretty much ran The pope looks The French Revolution was so Napoleon The politically correct was Neoclassical. Napoleon would approve of Greek, Roman, heroic, or patriotic themes, it's pure Neoclassical. This Parisian woman, and a Pompeii hairdo, perfectly in vogue. Neoclassicism was After all, everything was subjected to Nothing was sacred. If it wasn't logical, The reaction to Neoclassicism &quot;Romanticism.&quot; Romanticism meant putting passion over Logic and reason were that encouraged artists to be emotional what the eyes saw What better setting for of an actual shipwreck? In Gericault's we see a human pyramid at its base as one of the survivors which ultimately If art controls this is a masterpiece. The Romantic Movement of the 19th century. Delacroix's &quot;Liberty shows the citizens in 1830, and raising the French flag in those troublesome This painting with the French people France's national holiday is That's today, as all of France indulges in In Paris, and lots of parties. Everyone's welcome Like towns and villages each neighborhood here until late into the night. The local fire department's so I guess it doesn't matter if &quot;Let's live it up&quot; &quot;I got my money&quot; &quot;Let's spend it up&quot; &quot;Go out and smash it&quot; &quot;Like oh, my god&quot; &quot;Jump off that sofa&quot; &quot;Let's get, get off&quot; Traditionally, and line the river for over the Eiffel Tower. [ crowd cheering ] Paris is a cultural capital and it certainly knows how to Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &lt;i&gt;Vive la France!&lt;/i&gt; I hope there's We'll have more fun with wine. Oh, that's for sure. Angry Parisians stormed it, grabbed its arsenal, It's one of Europe's there's nothing left to see! And never get enough of what to [ loud bang ] I'm Rick Steves. ugh!