I'm here in New Zealand and I've Some of you noticed that I wasn't around how I am and whether the flight went videos about anxiety and I mentioned So I thought I'd come on and I wanted to show you some of New that I'm in, but the weather has couple of days and I'm also in a house She's just three weeks old today. So it's pretty noisy. So I've put this mic on and hopefully that can hear going on in the room next door. So I've come into this little bedroom tell you a a couple of things about on this visit and a rather funny First of all, the flight over here, that I was most anxious about. And obviously, you can see, I survived it. And of course, I always knew I would. Excuse me, it was a really long journey. So I went down to Gatwick in London no way I was going to navigate the is the ring road around London. It's very often more like a car park and and navigate that on the day of a flight. So my husband and I stayed in a into the airport in the morning. There followed six and a half almost 17 hours to Auckland. So I sat in a metal tube in the 23, and then another 40 minutes up to the Northland, which is north of Auckland. I can't say it was pleasant. I can't say that I'm looking forward actually is an extra hour on each But top tip, always get an aisle seat and the one that stops people getting out to fall asleep with earplugs in, rather than I find it really difficult, I don't know any kind of aeroplane because my knees And then shuffling along, especially of virtually climbing over them. So I made sure I had If I could afford it, I would I could put my legs up as well. Because it was pretty tough. But I got there here okay. My three year old granddaughter small airport here at Whangarei. As was my daughter. I heard them calling me. And my daughter was waving frantically and I could see she looked really a year since I saw her in person. But since then she's only seen me in this came to, to meet me as I came through the So I didn't get a hug for a little one from my daughter and the new baby. So, you know, swings and roundabouts. Anyway, that said Kiwis are very, very here from Doha, there was a rugby team and doing some kind of tournament I never had to lift my case into even though I could have done. But another top tip, always say yes conserve your energy for, you know, because the food on my flight was awful. So. I made sure I had plenty Anyway, I'm here. I've been having a lovely time. It's a real privilege to be able to She's in that sort of dopey, Although she's, you know, the daycare which gives my daughter Because the baby actually is quite And sleeps quite a lot. But you forget, don't you, just around and a baby around can be. And I'm not an early riser, naturally. I tend to get up about 8am and I'm up can make tea and make sure my daughter has And I've just spent my time keeping her that everything's running smoothly in the to work and he's off his paternity leave. But I just want to tell you about So my granddaughter's other grandparents they've got an uncle and auntie And so we came down from where to see the kiwi at Kiwi North. Those of you who are in New And my three year old granddaughter going to go and see the kiwi. She's really, really keen on the So we went off to see this and She actually took me all She's only been once, but she'd So off I went with her because it sat and fed the baby and I went darkened room and I couldn't see it. I thought kiwis were teeny tiny so I could look in the undergrowth. Massive great things in comparison saw the kiwi scurrying about which grandmother and and her dad arrived But I stayed back for a little not very often a Brit sees a kiwi. And this family was standing next to at each other, with two children. And all of a sudden, my mother in law, mother in law, came through the door. And one of the little girls with this that way, that's the out door, you To which she replied, &quot;Oh making sure that Jo's okay.&quot; I just said, &quot;Oh yes, she's my carer.&quot; As in, ha ha. I don't know if this is a But. I don't think that that Because they then proceeded to explain all kinds of facts to me. And I thought, I'm nodding along thinking, nice of them to tell me about it all. We went through to the next bit and pointing out the geckos and And the penny suddenly dropped that they I needed a little bit of extra help. So I, by that time, I thought, embarrassed if I say, Oh, well, So I played along. And this is no disrespect to anybody But I felt like I was in a bit of a bind. So that was my, my little So if that family is You were so kind. And if I was in need of extra to bump into nicer people than you. So I'm going to be here now I don't go back until December. I'm actually going to be able to here with this little family here grandchildren to start all the Christmas But I'm definitely in this I'm not going to see much of I'm going to see the inside of And I'm going to eat lots of kai, really absorb what I can of day And hopefully the sun's going to come out film a little bit for you for next Sunday. In the meantime, I'll, when I edit this, and and I'll see you on Wednesday where And I hope you'll enjoy that. It's just a short one. It's one I made at home before I So I, Oh! I meant to say, I meant to say, with my little bullet points in, so But yeah, it's been really interesting. Thank you for all your comments. It's lovely to read them. And you're giving me lots of ideas And really forming a nice community the comments And that that's really nice, it very respectful and friendly and you However, I have had one or two I had to think about, okay, what's Do I leave things there? Or do I just delete them Or what do I do? And I took the decision that I in the spirit of the video that So it's not, if I have somebody with me, as long as it's But if it comes to insults or just don't think any of us need to see that. And it's totally against So that is why maybe you might I am actually monitoring the comments. And I don't want you lovely people That's going to be my I don't think any of us should have I suppose I could look at it in doing well to attract trolls. Or attract yeah, attract or tell jokes that are ever And you think, Hmm, I I don't know whether I want that on to what I've been talking about. So yeah, so there we go. That said the channel has been. I mean, it slowed down a little bit So the views, I think that if you don't stay to your schedule So my self imposed schedule of two videos last week cause I was still jet lagged. And Yeah, there's definitely been a then, and then views as a result. So I will try and keep up with the do see the videos that I do put out. And to that end, do make sure that and click that little bell if you I post so you don't miss anything. Otherwise, if you're just a casual Lovely to see your comments