The miracle of modern I'm in Boston, where I did talk with is in Chicago, where he is making some Austin, thanks for joining us today. Exactly. markets are down today. because there's a feeling that with strong economy and mixed news on the Santa pause, take a take a pause in Do you want to make everybody happy and happen? allowed to speak for myself, not for committee as a whole. We're going to still get a lot of meeting when we when we have to decide amongst ourselves. other folks on the committee. react immediately and in the in the most And that's not the Fed timetable. I think, is focus on the through line. substantial decrease in the inflation cooling to something like full where it was, that would be that would outcome. of position, I think we're going to be next year said. go down with rates, how fast that You saw Chair Powell saying that there's immediate. there's some dispute about what is the settle down. we don't just charge right to it, that But again, this is playing out over a Well, everybody came out of the last Everybody on Wall Street came out of the meeting was a sure thing for another Have you seen anything in the data we upset people on Wall Street? should be a pause? it's a necessary and possible move? think you've seen the table is a huge Everything's always on the table. and there shouldn't be. I'm not going to try to put my head. How dangerous is it to try to put your I've really just got to focus on what We've seen what is Austin in the job Conflicting crosswinds, let's call it. We had two stronger than expected Then we had a hurricane and strike noise what was expected. to figure out where we are in the job A lot of the other measures, if you take of the ratios like vacancies to the pointing to stabilization at something That would be great. improving. 2%. then we're going to be back into the this a bump in the road like it was in line continuing and that what you're last couple of weeks on that? inflation as a bump in the road, the CPI for coming up? I love those nerds. A bunch of those nerds work at Chicago It's a little higher on a monthly basis If that was extended, that's too high. We're going to get inflation at 2% if It has to come down. too much out of any one month's. It's there's a lot of volatility of that And we've had many months in a row that view, is it's come way down. I have some confidence that if you break finally see progress. a bump slash blip where goods inflation pre-COVID it was mild deflation. progress on that. this morning. next year, we'll see interest rates far What is far below? significantly lower than we are now, now? I mean, I don't think it's a secret. looks like a pretty wide consensus among where they're asked individually, we everyone views, that the long run somewhere well below where it is today. staying on this path that we've that rates need to come down a fair amount But given the growth rate, Atlanta Fed And what we've seen the rest of this anticipated. anticipated, unemployment a little lower Is it worth keeping your foot on the you get to that target you want? on those conditions. and that we're getting off the through overheated posture, the Fed has to we back to 2%. remember on all of this is we've had a year plus. than trend as it has been and that little careful over indexing on the whether the economy's overheating, can have faster growth without I know there's some topics that Fed including the state of the Chicago Bears But that's cold. You're out over there in Boston staying I'm going to get you like We have a new administration coming in some new fiscal I realize you don't have details. You're not sure. whatever kind of sleep we get in projections, whatever kind of dot plot, because it could easily change when the Maybe. I thought Chair Powell at the press it comes to policy, we don't speculate. make predictions about who's going to do. maximize employment, stabilize prices if going to affect our mandate. just like every other conditions. or the anticipate anticipation of a Well, you did serve in an administration Advisors, and now you work for the Fed. what should be the relationship between central bank? Fed that Fed independence is important view among economists because the simple look at times in the United States when Fed or tell the Fed what to do, or the rates, the outcomes are worse, inflation And that's why everybody thinks that the And it's an interesting observation. Economic Advisors. worked at the Council of Economic who work in the Fed because they have But the question of Fed independence and Act, they try to set it up to be as It's not on the presidential election There's a composition of the FOMC, some of which are from reserve banks around a political process. If you want to do the best monetary I guess I'm going to ask a question that different way. Brainard put forth the proposition that policy taking breaks in between meetings rates because you have to assess where what's going to happen with fiscal little bit of extra strength in Do you think that that is probably a regular rate cuts, that you do take some Well, first, I thought you were about to something you asked me two years ago and that. Brainard. based on the results of elections. mandate and the assessment of the If the outlook is changing, then we can means for the Fed. object to, it's not speculating about That's not the Fed's role with why we're You tell us the weather and we tell you But that goes into the economic And what we do is watch economic I'm perfectly comfortable personally dot plot, there is disagreement about of our star, if you want to call it Or what would it mean to stop being And if we're getting closer to the you would want to slow down a little bit we still restrictive because monetary And I in my view, that's that's the way how slow or how fast to do it. and that is, you mentioned you're in the You could tell us what kind of coat Probably the same as us today. and consumers telling you out there? data when you make your decision. the economy. your district? you know, the Reserve Bank's we spend a business leaders and community leaders date measures than just what come out in A lot of the discussion and we have a here in the seventh District because we districts. community are reporting back a steady as kind of a report and that the job market not the kind of labor shortage labor out of peak pandemic. discussion, really complaints on the cannot raise prices as much as they did They can't pass on cost increases. increases coming, complications in the consumers would not stand for passing So for all of those, don't tell a story the data have been showing, which is front, stabilization on employment, and Let's let's try to bring the the neutral and be a little less You've been in Chicago for a long time, encompasses the city of Detroit. enough for you? We got a branch in Detroit. lights as the bomb dog at the Detroit So we we're all lions. Almost as good as the Bears. Chicago Fed and the owner of a bomb dog Thanks for joining us today here on