Just check out this simple and easy recipe that family! Hi everybody, welcome back to my channel. fried chicken. Here, check this out--I've got yesterday my channel reached 50,000 of you for your support and for watching my Okay, so here are my chicken thighs--about 2 kg. thighs. I defrosted and washed them two to three I'm going to show you how to cut the You can see this chicken thigh has a bone I'm going to make a good cut around the especially when deep frying, you want to avoid any here. You can use your fingers to feel where like this one, you can adjust your cut I want to stick my knife in here and slice it keep in mind that the skin is the most delicious there's a bone, so I just stuck my knife in and fry this chicken, the bone will cook nicely. I it tastier. If you're making chicken burgers or it, but for this, just make a quick slit. This You can see it's flatter now because it was the whole piece will cook nicely. Let me show where the bones are. Just by the middle section there, and then slice down without cutting there's the "L." Make a slit down here, but slit it open, and once it's opened like this, Okay, guys, I'm going to do this I'll get back to you with the So, have you ever noticed when that you sometimes see black stuff near the content trying to escape. While it's escaping, trapping the blood inside. That's why we need to the blood will pop out more quickly, stuff when you're eating your fried Now let's put the chicken thighs let's marinate our chicken thighs! Here are more or less of the ingredients based on your you can still marinate it the same way; all of the marinade will stick to the I'm going to add about 2 teaspoons of salt I'll add 1 tablespoon of sugar. In my I saw some comments asking why I add sugar. and it's part of the Cantonese marinade. sugar, which can make the chicken a bit dry, Next, I'll add chicken bouillon powder--2 just add 1 teaspoon. Now, I'm adding This is store-bought crushed garlic. if you do, some of it might pop out of the flour bitter garlic. So, 2 heaping tablespoons of Oh, and before we continue with the recipe, please subscribe to my channel. Thanks, everyone! Next, I'm giving enough for 2 kg of chicken thighs. if you put more or less. I'll give it a good but for 2 kg, I'll drizzle it twice. The same Now, let's drizzle some and add a good amount of olive oil. Now, let's so I'm just using a tablespoon for now, but it better. I want to really squeeze that Once you've given this a good rub, crack in cornstarch based on how much chicken and one heaping tablespoon, then mix. I'm going to Crack the egg and mix it all together. This chicken pieces. You don't want your chicken stick when you coat it. Once you've mixed In my previous drumstick video, some of you juicy and helps the flour stick, creating chicken in that video, the bubbling was due to so it won't bubble up. However, if you reuse oil, perfect; I don't need to add more cornstarch. We're going to marinate this for 1 to 2 hours. I don't recommend marinating overnight because Now, I have the cake flour ready. I'm going to chicken thighs. Next, we'll add about half a I'll get a whisk and mix it all together. the crispier the chicken pieces will be. However, the flour coating will provide a good crunch. So, I've added a generous amount of flour to to be well coated. First, we'll coat each baking tray. I'll be using this tray here. I'll place them all on the tray. I'm going to coat As you can see, they have marinated for over 1.5 chicken for our family meal. Now, just mix this chicken. Let's give it a quick mix to ensure I wish I had brought more plastic gloves, these chicken pieces. I've washed my hands garlic-flavored fingers! Grab a piece of chicken. Then, using my hands, I'll take some flour and it's all coated nicely. Give it a good rub and see any wetness. You don't want this; you any wet spots under the chicken skin, Keep squeezing the chicken; this will help nicely coated. If you see any wet spots on and you may end up with a burnt garlic flavor. all these little bits and pieces; when you fry Once I have everything coated, I'll one more example for you guys before we batter. Remember to put the meat side face you don't cover it properly and your hands Flip it around and add more flour, then give check for any wet spots. If you find any, coat no moisture left. Once you're the chicken anymore, give it a quick dusting. Look at that gooey stuff sticking out; it's it on the tray. Now I've finished coating my to coat this 2 kg batch. Make sure there's no is well coated. If the chicken skin is flapping, but you can also use previously used oil. For To test if your oil is ready, grab a little that means your oil is ready. I've turned the heat to 2 minutes until they form a crust. The crust hard. After that, once all the chicken pieces them for another 6 to 8 minutes until they're Slowly add the pieces--you don't want the putting in four pieces at a time. You and it's not bubbling up like last Let it fry for about 30 seconds before flipping to the other side. We want to form a I can see that the skin is starting to darken. The It's been about 1 minute and 30 seconds; let's You can see that I'm only doing 1 to 2 minutes After frying all the chicken pieces, I raised the back in. After placing them in, we'll lower which will take about 5 to 7 minutes I'm adding six pieces at a time now. Make sure to the chicken will burn quickly. After about 30 base. This batch contains a lot of skin, [Music] It's been about 6 minutes now, and the take them out. I'll be frying the looks amazing. [Music] Finally, it's time to taste some I just finished frying the chicken. recipe is simple and easy to make at home, and wait to taste it! The chicken is well cooked, and If you enjoyed this video, please Thank you to everyone who has subscribed to this year, and I hope to hit