I've heard about something, which was even famous these days that our phone listens to our voice and knows if we need to buy shoes or if we're going for a trip and then similar type of ads start to appear on Instagram &amp; other platforms. So, is is true? Yes, of course because these days all are smart devices so, of course, it listens and for every company data is the new Gold. Right! So, the biggest question that freshers have is that - will we get a job as a data engineer because sometimes they ask for experienced people. We'll give jobs only after 2-3 years of experience. Yes! Companies come, if you've done some projects and you know SQL properly then you can get into it. Can we also list the companies, that frequently hire for data roles. All the companies are hiring for data roles. What are the salaries given in data engineering roles? Salary for freshers, I would say in a range of 10-14 is average. So, Himani - there's lot of fear in the market regarding AI, right? AI is taking up all the jobs. So, what is the condition in data - do you think data jobs will be replaced? No, I don't think at all. That means there's no strict requirement in data in data engineering role. Its not required as much as for SDE role, I would say. Hi everyone! Welcome to a new episode. In today's episode we'll talk about data engineering roles. There're many other profiles of data - Data Analyst, Data Scientist, Data Engineer so, we're going to tell how data engineering is different from these profiles, with the help of some very good examples &amp; we'll give you a crisp roadmap, if you want to become a data engineer from scratch! So, there're many important stuffs for freshers as well in the podcast &amp; we've stuffs for those who are already working in the industry and they want to make a switch to data roles. So, watch the podcast till the end. We're going to discuss about the salaries. We're going to discuss about the market scenario, after the impact of AI. What is the impact on the profiles of data! So, its a very informative podcast. Do, like the video, if you're new to the channel. Subscribe! And if you want me to ask your questions from the guests, definitely join my telegram channel. I've given the link for telegram channel in the description. Do join and you can ask your questions directly to my guests. Now, let us start the podcast. Hi, Himani. How are you? Hi, Fraz. I'm good. How are you? I'm also doing great. So, Himani. We'll keep both freshers as well as experienced folks in mind while asking the questions Right! But before starting the podcast, give a small introduction to our audience. Right! So, I started my career with Dhunnhumby &amp; as a data engineer. Like, I've around 8 years of experience all my experiences in data engineering. And after dunnhumby, I joined OYO rooms after that, I worked with Walmart &amp; currently I'm working with Uber as a data engineer. So, Himani - data has many profiles. Can you give us a clear picture with an example since lot of freshers are watching this podcast? Right! So, data has many profiles and designations. So, its gets very confusing at times. So, with an example if we talk, then as these days everyone does targeted marketing. Right! So, what consumers are doing online, what are they searching, what are they looking at - they show similar products or similar services, right! So, firstly consumer's data - tracking their activities we get all the data in different data sources. Right! Now, which can be APIS or databases or file systems, right! So, data engineers have to collect all these data, making a data pipeline over it. And the finally, doing ETL - which is extract, transform and load - basically. They load it in a proper structured way - they convert raw data in a structured way. Which is easy to query by data analyst &amp; data scientist. Got it! Now, the data given by data engineers, on top of it all the insights to be generated, business all the business values to be generated from that data - then data analyst use that data to create different reports and visualizations. Understood! Right! And data scientist use those trends and patterns create different kins of models &amp; AI/ML models &amp; predictive modelling - they apply all these and forecast future trends. And in this way, like they apply more of statistics and modelling things. So, this is how data scientists work. Alright! Understood! So, all the three roles are very clear. So, as you told that a data engineer role is to basically, collect data from different sources. So, I've heard one thing in fact, it became very famous these days that our phones listens to our voice &amp; knows if we've to buy shoes or if we're going for a trip and similar type of ads appear on our Instagram &amp; other platforms. So, is it true? I don't have the answer to it, honestly. But yes, of course, because these days we've smart devices &amp; we ourselves enable voice in it. Then, of course, it listens and for every company, data is the new gold. Right! So, they collect all the data. This is not very structured data. So, data engineers don't directly deal with this data, if required then of course, in real time and thing but - I mean I haven't worked on that data. Honestly, but yes, of course! It is possible! And this data is used - should be used, I think. Okay! I hope you're enjoying the podcast. Now, before moving forward I want to introduce Odinschool's data science bootcamp which is going to start from 25th of May. Its a 6 months live bootcamp where the classes will be conducted by instructors from companies like, Microsoft, Walmart and IBM along with the course, you'll also get opportunities to sit with their 500+ hiring partners. Odinschool has helped a lot of students to get into domain. Lot of success stories might be up on screen. If you want to read more success stories, then you can visit the website. I've provided the link in the description. Now, I've provided the link to this bootcamp in the description, if you go through that link, you'll get extra Rs 10,000 discount on the price which is mentioned on the website. If you want to make your career in data domain, definitely check out Odinschool. Read about it carefully. Read success stories and if you're interested get into it. So, check out link in decsription. Now, let's move forward in the podcast. Right! So, let's zoom in about data engineering role. Can you tell us about the work, how do you collect the data? Right! So, data is generated in different data sources. Sometimes data in normal databases sometimes, we get data through different file systems. Sometimes, we get data through APIs. Right! So, these are different data sources, So, data engineers have to collect them. Then on top of it, basically creating data pipelines, applying business logic There's a common term - ETL - extracting data from data sources. Transforming it - transformation is applying business logic, cleansing the data, removing Nulls, duplicates adding joins and finally load the data in data warehousing systems or somewhere which can be further used by the end users. Right! So-- End users are data analytics, right, data analyst. They're data analysts, data scientists, sometimes there're other teams which wants to add a query on that data. So, sometimes even data engineers themselves create, even I also do this we create dashboards ourselves on that data. So, it can be anyone. Alright! You started your career as a data engineer, right! So, the biggest question that freshers have is that - will we get a job as a data engineer because often people ask for experience. We'll give jobs with only after 2-3 years of experiences. Right! So, these days I've seen that companies go into campuses for data related roles for freshers. In fact, when I was hired - I was hired as a data engineer through campus hiring in dunnhumby. So, yes, companies do come. If you've done some projects related to data or distributed computing, processing, programming and you know SQL then you can get into it. So, this is one thing but yes, if you're not getting that much opportunities even in college right, then of course, you can reach out to people on LinkedIn or ask for referrals. Or you can visit the carerr sites of companies and apply. You can apply there. So, I think you can find on Naukri.com and others. If these don't work then maybe, you've kept high targets that - I've to go for this company only then it might not be possible without any experience. Then maybe start something what you're just getting. Get an experience there for couple of years, then you can switch in your favorite company when you would've learnt. We can do step by step. Yes! Right! And what are the different famous platforms to apply for data engineering roles? So, I would say for platforms, there's LinkedIn - there're lot of job openings there. Apart from it, you can go on career sites as I told and apply, if you've target companies that I want to go here. Yes, on career portal. Right! You can ask for referrals, directly reach out to recruiters on LinkedIn. Or you can go for Naukri.com, Instahyre - create your profiles there. Keep them updated. Add relevant keywords there so that your profile comes on top. So, I think you can search these. Can we also list the companies which frequently hire for data roles? These days all the companies are hiring for data roles. So, sometimes people're just searching for data engineering, not just for data engineers. Sometimes, the name of role can be - big data developer, data developer, ETL developer - so those are similar ones. You should check in the job description if the skillset matches, then you can apply. Now, coming to your question that which companies hire - Toer 1 companies FAANGs, everyone is applying like, asking for data engineers, right! Apart from it, TCS, Accenture, Walmart, Target - the big 4s - KPMG, Deloitte, EY, PWC, Airbnb means, almost everyone has these data related roles. Great! So my next question is that, what are the salaries given in data engineering roles? Right! So, that is very subjective I would say! It depends on the experience you've. Which company you're coming from, what your current package is, which college did you get a degree from and in which course? Right! All of that matters. Your interview matters as well. So, salaries for freshers I would say - generally in the raneg of 10-14 is average. Average is what I'm talking about, right! And once you've an experience of around 3-4 years &amp; you're in a good company then you can expect around, I would say, 30-40 lakhs CTC which can include a lot of components but CTC wise, 30-40 lakhs. Alright! And what is the highest salary that you've seen in the companies that you've worked at or whichever friend circle you had? So, highest salaries I would say - there're some companies of course, but what I've seen is up to 80-90 lakhs. Right! And I've seen people who've a package of 30 lakhs &amp; then they switched to tier 1 company and they got a hike of more than 100%. Like, their package became more than 60 lakhs. So, its about the right skillset, that you should apply at the right place, then definitely you'll land.... I think the salaries are at par as a software engineering profiles, right! Yes! Atleast in the top tier companies, there's no differentiation these days. There they're paying everyone equally. Okay! Great! So, Himani, there is a lot of fear regarding AI in the market, right! That AI is taking up all the jobs. So, what is the condition in data? Do you think data jobs will be replaced? No! I don't think so. Of course, like Chat GPT - all the people working in data related profiles they can take help from these platform tools - to optimise their query or those who don't know SQL kind of, then if they tell it in Leyman language then they'll get the query. But the AI models are data driven, right! So, where will the data come from? People will gather it from data roles. Right! So, until there's not enough data those models won't work properly. So, I think data engineering or data related profiles are going no-where. Like, there're going to stay. Yes, the future is safe. Okay! Awesome, what is the most interesting project that you've worked on? So, in one of my projects - stakeholders came to us that they wanted a particular kind of visualization Okay! But then I was working as a data engineer, so, when I searched for data there wasn't anything related to it there was no existing data. So, then it was quite challenging also that I had to find the data and explore. But then I did it, I explored all the data. I partially found the data - I couldn't get all the data but good enough to atleats provide some visualization to the stakeholders. Then, I even worked with UI developer because the challenge for them was how to work with partial data. When I came up with an approach and then, we created those dashboards &amp; the stakeholders really liked it. So, I think that was like kind of project in which I had lot of fun. I got to explore lot of things. It was challenging but I had fun. Cool! So, Himani now let's discuss a detailed roadmap so that whoever wants to enter in data engineering role, what all do they need to prepare? Right! So, there're some set of skills that should be prepared if you want to get into data engineering. So, first I would say is SQL. You should prepare SQL properly. You should be clear on joins or different kind of, maybe window functions so you should prepare all that properly. So, Leetcode is a good platform where you can prepare. Easy, medium, hard! Like try to go till hard level in SQL, right! After that, I would say your problem solving skills basically, data structure and algorithms. So, you should've the idea of basic data structures, how to manipulate them like array, linked List, strings, dictionaries, you should know these. And again if we talk regarding the Leetcode level, then you should know easy - medium. After that, you should've some problem solving skills if a problem is given to you, then atleast you can give- brute force solution. If not optimised. Okay! DSA is not strictly required in data engineering role? Not very strict that you should know weighted graph or those algorithms and all or compelx dynamic problems. Those aren't much necessary. There should be an intuition that how things work - why is graph used or similar things but no one will ask you in an interview that implement graph. Got i! Means it very rare, very very very rare - I would say&gt; Right! Apart from these, big data technologies like Spark, Hive, Hadoop - these are very important. And in interviews, there're special rounds for big data concepts. So, you should know Spark's internals, architectures - how things work, resources, scalability, optimisation - you should study all, I would say. Right! These are there, but there're some tools which are good to know - Airflow or Git. So, I would say you should know these at high level and then again, one more thing data concepts like data modelling, data warehousing - as I told earlier as well. Fact table, Dimension table, OLTP, OLAP you should know about these as well. One more thing in which, there're multiple questions regarding data pipeline designing. So, you should know a bit of data architecture and you can prepare for as there're some courses available on grokking. Alright! So, I think you got a crisp roadmap. Now my question is - how to make a lateral entry into this role because lot of people go for software engineering. They go for front-end, back-end and then they don't like it. They want to switch to data role. So, what should be a path for them? Right! In this situation, if you're interested in data profiles then maybe you can talk to other teams in your organization you can understand how they work. And you can develop that skill set. Parallelly and once you're ready, you can apply for openings because its easy to move in the same organization at times. Right! You can do some courses, you can take some certifications like GCP's certification. Azure certifications are there - so that'll help you. You can go for that. Once you're comfortable, then maybe you can switch the organization if you want, or yes, you can follow these steps. Alright! Good! So, now I've a set of my questions from my telegram community. Alright! Rest, if you haven't join the telegram community then link is in the description, you can join. So that you can ask you questions. So, the 1st question is - someone has asked that what projects to put in resume for it to get shortlisted? Right! So, i would say if you're targeting data related profiles, then put, of course, data related projects only. In which you've worked on big data technologies, you've worked on Spark, hive, SQL, Python - some kind of data pipeline, data modelling, data architecture so highlight those projects &amp; put those type of skillsets, then it should help you. Alright! Good! Next question is that - what if there's a 3 years of gap after graduation &amp; I want to start my career in data roles. Is it possible? It is possible. Of course, you need to develop some skills. Because if you want entry level. After developing skills, you can go normally for interviews and hopefully you'll crack something. In my real life, I've seen people who've come back even after 5-6 years of gap &amp; sometimes they come back as SDE &amp; then switch. To data or sometimes they directly get data related jobs as well, so its very subjective that where you're targeting or where you're applying. So, just have a plan &amp; follow it. Alright! Next question is - how much DSA is required to become data engineer? DSA isn't required like SDE roles, I would say. Normally, my personal experience when DSA related interview happens. So, they ask medium level kind of questions in it. Right! You should know medium level Leetcode questions. Your problem solving skills should be good, you should know data structures that where what can be inserted, how to manipulate it, how to optimise it. So, you should know the space time complexity then I think that should be enough. No need for hard level questions. No need for hard level, complex stuffs. Alright! Are there any remote job options? Remote jobs - now, most of the companies have started RTO - Return to office so, I would say there aren't many options in general, these days. I would say in around 10-15 companies there's one company which gives remote options. Got it! Fine! And last question is - what kind of Python questions I can expect in interviews? So, nobody will ask you until and unless - its a python profile, let's say Python developer then only python specific core questions will be asked from you. Maybe memory management, garbage collection, decorators and all that. But in general, if you've a DSA related round, problem solving round, coding round then you can choose a language of your choice in it. you've to do specifically python. Normally, data engineers prefer python, scala and java. These three are preferred, so you can use any language to give your solution, so its not important to do python specifically. Alright! Great! So, thanks a lot Himani for all these answers and I hope everyone would've got a clear picture that / *thank you* what a data engineering role is. How much salaries are paid, how to prepare. So, and if you like the podcast, definitely hit the like button. Subscribe to the channel and himani's LinkedIn will be given in the description, you can connect with her. Thank you!