So, Robb, you and I are Professional Scrum wasn't a dream. Anyway, so yeah, we teach these certification exam very often, like the PSM1 or but one of my most popular questions in class taking these assessments?&quot; They're challenging; you know, I kind of have some strategies, and with our friends out in YouTube land. Yeah, I've and not a lot of people are going to listen to pass the Scrum assessment, here's my number one that's my number one as well! Yep, like seriously, for problems. There are so many answers in Scrum Guide, and if you just read through it, &quot;Wow, that's a really interesting statement they you cannot even present something at a Sprint I bet you that shows up on the assessment. Yeah, it just a little bit--read it again after the class read that,&quot; or maybe you read it the first day of get through the whole class and read it again you're going to notice implications that you gone through the exercise of going through class. areas where it's like, &quot;Oh, that's not what we do take what you do at work and throw it on how you use Scrum at work. You're being framework is designed and how it's intended a correlation to how your work is currently with students after class and after the exam who &quot;But you know, I answered this way because right, but is that how Scrum's actually designed Any other tips besides reading the Scrum Guide who isn't here with us today--you know, he had a interesting point. He thinks you should take the 100%. Yeah, okay, and he has a couple of reasons see how these questions play out. But also, and so when you take the real assessment, there's &quot;I know the answer to this right away,&quot; and you're what, 80 questions in 60 minutes? Yeah, in those to take you a few more minutes because you're So Greg's advice around that is basically to have way it's worked is there's a sort of common pool practice assessment you won't have on your real real assessment will never show up in the practice flavor. That aligns with one of my tips as well, three times at 100%. Because they save the hardest And so you don't want to say, &quot;Oh, I got above go.&quot; No, the real exam is harder, so aim for wrong. They give you that detailed feedback on the feedback on the real assessment, so use that I got one wrong, I'll try again.&quot; Go through, read maybe brush up on that area of the Scrum Guide, portion of the class material. That's my third and then brush up on the class material. You every single part of the mural or whatever, but I was surprising, was confusing at first, or is because that means there's already a well-worn if the class or the Scrum Guide was teaching you generating that neural pathway as well. So spend for the exam. Yeah, I also have alternative advice is one way to do it, but it has its downside. The assessment, it is no longer valuable to you. It's like, &quot;Oh wait, how would I answer this if I were answer, and I'm just going to tick the box. I did assessment and was getting 100% every time on the and I was like, &quot;Well, that's interesting. started asking the most basic questions about is the whole Scrum theory section in the Scrum and so then I realized, &quot;Ah, he memorized the talking about. So the general spirit of the actually understand what you're talking about understanding, and memorization only gets you I mean, you can look up certain answers for very can have the Scrum Guide or any materials open help you with very many questions. Like, if you Review four hours, and Retro three hours, or is Guide and just double-check that. That's going to Most of the questions are going to require that the situation. And here's just a couple of broad are a lot of common misconceptions about Scrum. I facilitates the daily Scrum, that it's the Scrum teams have to use certain practices like burn-down common misconceptions out there, and part of the are you buying into these common misconceptions, actually designed? That the daily Scrum is that they're the only ones that have to be there. and whatever technique works best for the team make sure you understand those anti-patterns, are. It's not just, &quot;Oh, we use story points, stuff like that. Sure, sure. Yeah, keep those maybe as a PDF so you can search on it, and also highlighted things on. Open book, open notes. that you have. I wouldn't go to the guide for your time box. But for those quick and easy ones here,&quot; yeah, no harm in that. I think the last test-taking for multiple-choice: try to eliminate project manager in Scrum. There isn't a steering technique for any of these events. Just eliminate put different big ideas in Scrum that I sometimes I guess that's our next topic. But you know, big idea in Scrum. Done increment, the big idea in Scrum. Once you've eliminated a big idea filters, and you'll probably get to and I would love to hear if anybody else has drop them into the comments down below, that