The Human body is a marvel of natural evolution like did you know that humans are the only will pass enough wind in a day to inflate However, despite being around for nearly 200,000 on the planet, there are plenty of misconceptions Here, we'll look how unique your fingerprints is and how your body isn't very human at Plus a few more mind blowing misconceptions! I'm Stu, this is Debunked, where we sort the misconceptions. Number 6. The Tongue Taste Map! Many of us will be familiar with this tongue taught it in school. It dates all the way back to Germany in 1901, areas of the tongue to be more sensitive to Since then, this research has been misinterpreted, map you see right here, with different sections and Bitter tastes. Aside from the fact that the original map the truth of the matter is that your tongue it's actually your brain that ascertains Your tongue has up 10,000 taste buds spread receptor cells and these respond to different Up until very recently it was believed that five basic flavours and then send a signal A study in 2015, lead by Charles Zuker at head. "TASTE, THE WAY YOU AND I THINK OF IT, IS "DEDICATED TASTE RECEPTORS IN THE TONGUE THE BRAIN THAT AFFORDS MEANING TO THESE CHEMICALS." In the last decade Dr Zuker has proved that taste, and that each class of receptor sends In fact studies have now shown that the brain distinct taste you get from carbonated water. BUT Zuker's more recent experiment proved unique set of brain cells that are located generates a map of taste qualities in the So we've gone full circle with the taste In the study Zuker's team manipulated specific sweet when they were actually tasting something They could even activate the neurons to taste drinking water. "DEDICATED TASTE RECEPTORS IN THE TONGUE THE BRAIN THAT AFFORDS MEANING TO THESE CHEMICALS." In other words, taste is all in the brain. Number 5. We lose most of our body heat through our You'll get told it a hundred times as a and it was even stated as fact in a US military So surely it must hold some weight, right? Well, I'm afraid not. The idea that we lose more heat from our head The human head is no more efficient at losing A 2006 study by the conducted tests by dunking heads submerged and with their head above The study found that we only lose around 7 To us it may feel like your head is colder your head than any other part of your body But the fact is, if you expose your arms to them, as they have a larger surface area from According to Dr Daniel Sessler, the myth originated from a military experiment were dressed in Arctic survival suits and heat loss was then measured. But rather unfairly their heads were uncovered of their heat. Subsequently, the military field manual at our body heat through the head. Despite this, seven to ten percent is still want to lose it in cold weather, so it's Number 4. No Two People Have Identical Fingerprints. We leave fingerprints behind on pretty much Why? Because the patterns on the end of your fingers, to sweat glands which secrete sweat to the Then when you touch something a pattern of Simple. The patterns themselves however, are far more You see, fingerprints shape into 3 main patterns: to have all 3 types across all 10 of your Feel free to take a look at your own, I imagine The ridge paths, breaks and forks that you combinations, hence the concept that 'no two people have In fact, they've been used to identify individuals as you well know, they now unlock your phone, but are they completely unique or could you commit? Simon Cole, a professor of criminology, law, who were wrongly convicted in the US because This wasn't however because there are 22 rather that the print analysis was mistaken. You see for a fingerprint to 'match', need to have a certain number of points of reference points varies dramatically between 12. In fact one judge in California threw fingerprint there wasn't a standard number of points A "I DON'T THINK I'M EVER GOING TO USE Cole points out that his findings are only from qualified fingerprint examiners are brought rate of mismatch is 0.8%. So in the sense of fingerprint impressions, to match with someone else's. But what about having a physically identical How about identical twins, surely the clue Well, despite inheriting similar size and identifying characteristics are still different. In fact everyone's fingerprints are completed And incredibly as your entire body grows, and thumbs remain the same, they essentially With old age, the ridges can become less prominent, the actual patterns remain the same. There are of course things like scars or burns then it can be quite hard to make it a permanent Notorious gangster John Dillinger attempted acid, only to have them grow back mostly the But for some people this wouldn't be the known as ADERMATOGLYPHIA, you wouldn't have This rare genetic disorder means that your smooth. But for most, as 'individual' as these been proven that they are entirely unique to prove either way without having catalogued ever lived. As Forensic Science Regulator Mike Silverman "ESSENTIALLY YOU CAN'T PROVE THAT NO TWO IT'S IMPROBABLE, BUT SO IS WINNING THE LOTTERY, And it was originally estimated that odds Those may sound like some pretty low odds, people that have ever lived on Earth, most a trillion combinations across human history, to match. But to counter those odds again, mathematicians that aren't even visible to the human eye, would be pretty much countless. Number 3. Your Appendix Is Useless Long believed to be an utterly useless ticking it has now been discovered that the Appendix It has been long established that the appendix not been known what these tissues are for. Now, a series of observations and experiments research bodies has suggested that they are there to protect a "safe house" for these beneficial bugs. Assistant Professor William Parker explains a nasty bout of illness. "ONCE THE BOWEL CONTENTS HAVE LEFT THE BODY, CAN EMERGE AND REPOPULATE THE LINING OF THE TAKE UP RESIDENCE,&quot; Number 2. The color of your pee indicates whether you're It's likely that you've been told that you are, and the lighter and clearer it is Athletes are even specifically advised "OBSERVE URINE OUTPUT OVER THE COURSE OF COLOUR. OUTPUT VOLUME AND FREQUENCY SHOULD BE CONSISTENT THE END OF THE DAY, AIMING FOR THE LAST OUTPUTS So what's the science behind this theory? Well, when you're dehydrated a hormone is your kidneys absorb, this then lowers the the substances left behind, making your pee After this process, less water then needs volume and appears to be more pale and clearer. However, researchers at Oxford discovered quite so clear. They looked at 8 studies and found that the advocating the use of urine colour as an accurate There were 3 studies that suggested it could status' but these also found the problem dietary supplements can alter the colour of These results have raised concerns that attempts lead to overhydration and hyponatremia, essentially extreme cases can be life threatening. Number 1. Your body is 100% Human I would expect most reactions to this to be nonsense are you talking, if I'm not human Now this might make you feel a bit weird, your body is inhabited by little creatures. As Professor Rob Knight puts it: &quot;YOU'RE MORE MICROBE THAN YOU ARE HUMAN.&quot; PROF. ROB KNIGHT, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN &amp; CO-FOUNDER OF THE AMERICAN GUT PROJECT Because incredibly it's estimated that only rest is our microbiome made up of organisms Microbiologist, Professor Sarkis Mazmanian, takes this figure even further and suggests 1000 to 1 &quot;WE DON'T HAVE JUST ONE GENOME, THE GENES GENOME WHICH AUGMENT THE ACTIVITY OF OUR OWN. Your first thought may be to grab a scrubbing hold up, because you really don't want to Besides a shower wouldn't do a great deal your guts. &quot;WHAT MAKES US HUMAN IS, IN MY OPINION, THE OUR GUT MICROBES.&quot; Although it was originally thought that the our gut from invaders, synthesising some vitamins can't digest. It's now understood that your Microbiome influence your mood and it can even affect As Dr Michael Mosley puts it: "THE MICROBES CAN DECIDE HOW MUCH ENERGY MUCH MORE. CAN YOUR MICROBIOME MAKE YOU FAT?... IT CERTAINLY CAN!" Understanding the incredible world of our but it is hoped that Microbial Medicine known where you can essentially have a microbiome lean healthy person and inserting them in bacteria, and making