We've arrived in the Kingdom of Sweden The country that invented Bluetooth They founded the most famous furniture company in the world. They also invented the safety belts of cars It brought to the world the first central bank And A Peace Nobel Prize. This country didn't go to war in 200 years Peaceful an neutral like Switzerland. Spotify, IKEA, Ericsson Volvo cars H&amp;M, Minecraft, And many more So, what's the reason behind Sweden's development? We sat down with CEOs to know why. And this is the old village which is called Gamla Stan. And it's an island, Where Stockholm was only this area Which is called Gamla Stan. This is Stockholm, the capital of Sweden One of the Scandinavian countries Whose happiness index is among the highest in the world Based on quality of life standards there. Sweden excelled over all European countries in technology It's number 2 in the world After Silicon Valley in San Francisco. In the first 2 days, we tried to discover Stockholm. From the national dish experience Meatballs The official dish of Sweden which you'll find in every IKEA in the world. We decided to try unusual food in Sweden It's popular and comes from the north From snow This is the worst Tuna, it has the worst smell in the world. It has an old story, where they used to... store fish for long periods of time They ferment it In the days of winter. To the extent of forbidding people from carrying these cans on planes. The worst food smell in the world! It's the official traditional food in northern Sweden. Thank God for his blessings. They used to eat these to survive. Then we'll know how Sweden is number 2 in the world After Germany in recycling. Do you see these? they're from the government They put them all over In almost every neighborhood. Around 9 recycling bins Each one is different than the other where you can recycle. It got to the extent of Sweden buying trash from other countries! Specialized. From Norway for example. They use it to bring energy of recycling factories. For example, here in stores There's a code you find on bottles Where they reimburse you for a fee added in the receipt When you recycle the empty bottle. We'll go buy another one. At the end of every month People come here carrying big bags To recycle empty bottles. This is a recycling center, guys, in Sweden. Look, this is the biggest recycling center in Sweden. Check out this shredding machine. Look. It's where Swedish people come to recycle large objects from their homes. Cars are parked in a line here, in the weekend! To buy a new one. And they don't get anything when they come to recycle. They don't get paid one dime. They care about the environment as they say Just imagine that you come and see people opening boxes and throwing stuff out I call them piles. Learn, she can park in the line or get out of the car and go by herself. She brought plants Look how many, one, two, three four from here, stretching through the horizon Everybody came in the weekend instead of going on a family trip or something no, they came on a trip for recycling. Look how everybody is busy They're coming to recycle. Because 99% of Sweden's waste is recycled and only 1% of waste is destroyed. Okay, these are the second-hand shops, guys they're popular and Sweden and they're all over. You just write "second-hand" on Google Maps You'll find more than 20 places like this one. You'll find furniture and house accessories In this huge compound And this is because of their recycling mentality. People come and distribute them And the owners of this place put them in order and sell them again. Of course with very low prices. Peace Nobel prize Stockholm. On the financial field, Sweden is number 1 in the world when it comes to money transaction apps. It's an application called Swish Only by taking a person's number, save it, and then... And it's on the way to completely stop using cash by Mars of 2023 The oldest central bank in the world. It became the number one country without cash. And the government encourages getting a credit card and allows children to have credit cards at age 7! to make them get used to not using cash. And after that, we went to see some international successful companies that started in Sweden. Like Ericson. It used to make Ericson phones back in the day and Nokia was their competitor but they were faced with the iPhone and touch screen. Imagine, the idea of the phone was blowing But now they're the best in the wired and wireless telecommunications Going out with your friends carrying your mobile phone Check out it's size! Like this robot, it's working on 5G On this device, do you see it on the top? These sensors are put in the streets, they can run a car by itself. And know where it goes using 5G sensors. And they sold Estonia small cars that can autonomously deliver orders. If put all over the city, maybe the whole city runs by itself. And this is the future. We've arrived at a company inspired by Spotify. In Epidemic Sound company The company whose music and sound effects I use in my videos for years. We're at their company here. Then we went to a small village on the way to Malmo In the middle. To get to know IKEA. Its success story The train is here We got out of Stockholm and to another city It's called Almhult It's a very small village From which came... We've arrived at the city of IKEA A whole city, IKEA people, IKEA museum And the hotel is IKEA. Everything is about... All furniture you find is from IKEA Just like the one I have at home IKEA furniture Tables, I have one of these. Where did the story start from? From a 17-year-old boy Do you see where the name IKEA come from? The 2 initials of his name, Then initials from the farm he lived in and the city's name. He used to sell matches back in the day He started selling in the neighborhood when he was 6 selling to his grandmother. Watches, jewelry And it's a mentality, when you know how to succeed and from a young age at 17 years old he opened the first IKEA store in the world here. Then he sold shavers. This is the first catalogue, 1951 These are the meatballs, of course you can choose vegetarian ones This is in every IKEA you go to in the world We're at the original one, the first one in the world. Then we went to get to know Malmo or as they call it "Malma" Deep in the south The city of falafel! This bridge is between it and Denmark. You're in Malmo. There are a lot of Arabs there. These are the wonderous cities. Check out the electric tram. Once you see that tower, which is called Turning Torso Like a spine that's twisted like this. This is the first twisted tower in the world! Look at the flag, Malmo city flag This is the sea, and that's Copenhagen over there. You can see it from here. And the bridge which we'll cross in a bit The architecture marvel bridge! It's called Oresund bridge, a modern architectural marvel. A highway and a railroad at the same time. 8 km on the top, then suddenly goes underwater. It connects Sweden and Denmark Of course, without borders. They go underwater to let ships pass. I'll have an ice Late in Copenhagen then go back to Malmo We crossed the bridge After 20 minutes we're in Copenhagen! That's the sign that you've arrived in Copenhagen. We went back to Malmo, Sweden These are falafel. This is the best falafel restaurant in Malmo. And this is the best olive oil, but it's Greek. Thank you Epidemic Sound for the invitation If you want any sound effects or music You'll find the link in the description below.