Any American who has driven through parts of Europe or other sensibilities, can seem baffling. The roundabout, the traffic feature that can literally have almost entirely missing from the US. And Americans may dread driving through one, fearing they hapless Clark Griswold. It's amazing. I cannot get left. Needless to say, compared to Europe, the US is roundabout Europe dominates a list of the 25 cities with the most. That is except for Miami, Florida, Berkeley, California. And believe it or not, Carmel, Indiana. We're excited about our roundabouts. I'm told this is number 121. The mayor of Carmel, Jim Brainard, became enamored of man. He has filled the streets with them about 150 and 100,000 people. And I get requests every month. Seems can you get rid of this traffic light near my house I couldn't take a roundabout out today if I wanted to. The people here are very proud of what we've done because Research supports this. Roundabouts are considerably safer for drivers and lights. They're even better for the environment. So are they all they're cracked up to be? And if so, why hasn't the US adopted them? This is Jim Brainard. He's been the mayor of Carmel, Indiana, since 1996 when he Carmel had a quarter of its current population, and the Long stretches of road in between stoplights. What I heard from the people I talked to when I ran for was they wanted a traditional downtown. He knew they wouldn't be able to accomplish that with the We looked at other suburbs around the United States and in congestion and we thought we just have to do better if So he thought of roundabouts. The single lane roundabout or also the mini roundabout. They are the safest type of intersection which you can They are much safer than signalized intersections. Roundabouts are basically circular intersections where around the circle. Modern roundabouts tend to be relatively tight circles and more. The tighter the circle, the more drivers have to slow exiting the roundabout. This is how it works. The first thing to know is in a modern roundabout, traffic of way when entering a roundabout. Cars should slow down, look to the left and yield to any There might be signs posted indicating the rules and the If the roundabout has two or more lanes, drivers will want exit. For example, taking an exit further away might lane. A very near exit might require a driver to keep Often signs will be posted, but you will need to plan As a car approaches its exit, the driver should use the out of the roundabout. Cars should yield to pedestrians crossing and bicycles More importantly, there isn't really an opportunity for the light because there are no red lights to run. The most severe intersection crashes head on right angle unlikely in 2021. 24% of all US crash deaths 10,445 people occurred at that same year. An estimated 127,000 people were injured in red light The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, or IHS, cites a the safety benefits of roundabouts. Among other things. The findings show that converting traffic signs or traffic 62% and injury crashes by up to 87%. Most of these studies focus on single lane roundabouts, the the safest. Roundabouts also appear to be safer for You walk on a sidewalk around the perimeter of the road and traffic coming in one direction at a time. Also, again, cars are driving about 10 to 15mph. Areas that adopt them have seen drops in traffic Cars don't spend time sitting still at red lights. Traffic doesn't get backed up behind a vehicle attempting a There are no left turns that vehicles inside the circle prevent backups. Carmel Mayor Brainard has seen all of these effects with The average vehicle fatality rate in the US is 12.9 deaths the rate is slightly higher in neighboring Indianapolis. Carmel, on the other hand, which shares some roads with the fatality rate of just over two per 100,000 people. Accident related injuries are down 80%. The town has been able to narrow roads, remove lanes. Brainard says they move traffic 50% faster. The city is also saving a lot of money. A single traffic light costs about $400,000, Brainard says. They draw a lot of electricity, just like a lot of So you're looking at 8 to $10,000 a year per light. So if you've got 100, 200 lights in your city, do the math. There's a lot of money. And then after 20 years, you've got inflation. That's just the light. Then you have to employ people to service the lights, Natural disasters such as severe storms can knock traffic Then consider the cost of adding more lanes to roads as But if these are so wonderful, why didn't they take off in Why isn't every US town like Carmel? A bit of history might help explain. Modern roundabouts are descendants of the traffic circle, States. Columbus Circle in Manhattan is one such traffic In fact, those circular roads had been seen in cities long Columbus Circle is considered the first roundabout of the It was the brainchild of William Phelps Eno, a rather control, also known today for the think tank that bears his We drive on the right side of the road here in the United Thanks to him and his his ideas. He invented the stop sign. He basically invented the sidewalk. We didn't have sidewalk rules or regulations. So he, you know, laid out those kinds of rules for for New for for streets in New York City. One way streets, taxi stands, all these things we take for The New York Police Department had asked Eno to help solve Columbus Circle at the time Around the turn of the 20th Just after 1900, Columbus Circle was notorious for lots of He didn't have any regulations. People were going both directions around the circle. Eno proposed that traffic around the circle move in a single It was that simple proposal and the design that resulted extent. It improved traffic congestion in around that part of Paris around the Arc de Triomphe. Piccadilly Circus in in London and a couple of other Initially, the people in England didn't like that, and they And also the word roundabout is just a joke. It's people were talking about it. It's a terrible thing. They go just round about this island, this and that is the Despite the mockery, the concept stuck and was refined into around 1960. It was the British and other European designers who smaller, reducing the lanes and ensuring vehicles already entering. You're bringing the car to to, you know, slowing it down so intersections. It's a very subtle change, but actually made Transportation researcher Lee Roediger says estimates of about 30 to 50,000. In France, about 30,000 in Spain and 25,000 in the United This isn't perfect, but let me put that all in perspective. The US has about 290 million cars and France about 39 Let's say there are about 40,000 roundabouts in France. If the US had as many roundabouts per vehicle as France 300,000. We currently have 10,000. Bear in mind the comparison has limitations. The US has large swaths of sparsely populated land and areas. A lot of other countries adopted it very, very, very But we we didn't really do that here for a number of years. So why not the US? There were a few main reasons. One, Eno's initial traffic circle concept was adopted by complicated. A lot of these were often called rotaries much You would change lanes in them. They had other kind of traffic islands in them sometimes, than than the way that the roads were configured before. And so they actually wound up falling out of favor in the They didn't really have much of a utility because we kind Of course, there were large traffic circles in places across abandoned. And there was a kind of modern homegrown Meanwhile, the traffic signal became the traffic control thanks in part to aggressive salespeople. They would go into these communities and provide lots of traffic congestion in these intersections. And hey, by the way, we have these signals that we can sell All this kind of went hand in hand and it became I mean, rational, modern approach to to improving these this old model from the turn of the century. Finally, as traffic control became a standardized discipline manual on uniform traffic control devices, which is the Traffic engineers use to design roads. It lays out, I guess you would say, simpler, more Again that are signalized as opposed to roundabouts, which especially in an urban environment. It may it may eat up more of the of the landscape than than They may take a little bit longer to pull together. The first modern roundabouts in the United States were That is three decades after the modern Roundabout was Americans are often resistant to the idea of introducing a A lot of it was inertia. Traffic engineering and inertia go And it's only now that we're starting to see where some of challenges with some of the ideas that Mr. Eno pulled together. When Jim Brainard took the helm of Carmel, Indiana, in late or in the minds of people he consulted. Everyone suggested adding more lanes. You know, I didn't have a background in civil engineering, questions. And many times the answers I got were, I don't That's just the way we were taught. And they had they just didn't think about it. And so we had some really good engineers and said, okay, Since then, Carmel has replaced all but a handful of its conversions within years. Roundabouts have been catching on in the rest of the US. The country has been adding around 500 to 700 of them per States such as New York and Virginia have adopted roundabouts when building repairing intersections. Researcher Wang, who lives in Northern Virginia. Yeah, I can I can tell from my my experience in this area I just started to see more and more roundabouts being The states with the most roundabouts, Florida, California We did several, several surveys in some US communities, roundabouts were built. And we found that, yes, at the Like the percentage of the drivers who would favor the idea low. But once they get, the drivers get the chance of like roundabouts and then get more experience driving around the acceptable. That said, these are not considered perfect. There are a few potential drawbacks depending on the needs The Guardian in 2015 reported that some cities in the UK of traffic lights. They said the roundabouts were actually worse for It seems to depend on how the roundabout is designed and A review of 49 studies found that roundabouts can actually unless there is a protected bike lane. Researchers in Belgium found that single lane roundabouts 93%, while Danish researchers said roundabouts that did 84% reduction in crashes. Brainard has said an increase in crashes involving It is also observed that single lane roundabouts have a 25,000 cars per day. We have one solution which has partly to two lanes on the circle. We call it double roundabouts. They have been invented in the Netherlands and some of them and they come up to a capacity of 31,000, 35,000. But this is still not much. If you have more traffic than in Germany, you need a Verner Braun designed one such multi-lane roundabout in the some in the Netherlands. But this type is only useful under specific conditions. If you have one predominating movement and it is useful if traffic is distributed over all the entrances and exits equally, then it doesn't work. The risk is that the more lanes or other elements there are, at first. Over the long term, over a few years after the round walls increasing safety benefits at least double in roundabouts. We think probably because the drivers, as the drivers gain roundabouts, they know how it works, They know how to drive And then then we should expect larger safety benefits at Carmel even has a roundabout on the Keystone Parkway, a high intention of going back to stoplights. We had to build a city that was beautiful and worked really If we were going to compete and we have been able to We have 150 corporate headquarters in Carmel. We have been rated over and over by various organizations. One of the best places to live in the United States, one of raise families, one of the best places for single people. And so it's because we set out to build a city that worked transportation network is one of those basic things that a to work.