Hello everybody, I'm Brian Levine, We're here again for the Glenn Gould with some of the most remarkable people But first, while you're stopping piano sign, please take a moment And while you're at it, be sure to check Wynton Marsalis, Laurie Anderson, Neil Clark, Viggo Mortensen, Hilary Hahn, Nahre But as they say in the infomercials, We'd love you to visit us ca. And when you're there, if you donate button and support the work We'd be proud and honored Our guest today is none other literally lives and breathes music. He's a songwriter, a multi producer, audio engineer, and he's he's still an educator, even though He owns Black Dog Sound Studios in days he's best known as one of the in the music realm, beginning with These days he has 4. 5 million subscribers to his channel, and on YouTube he has had over 1. 5 billion views. Billion with a B, Views. His videos feature interviews with many of opinion, and the occasional cranky rant. What comes through, however, in every joyful love of music and insatiable encyclopedic knowledge with his viewers. Rick, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you, Brian. Great to be here. now, regular viewers of your channel and pop music, but jazz has a special Can you tell us a bit about how So I actually started as a when I was in third grade. and, and my dad was a huge jazz listener. So my mom loved classical music And my dad listened to jazz. So both, And then, of course, I have to all different types of music. I was really exposed to a lot of different But, I was, I played the bass. I have an undergraduate a master's in jazz guitar. And I, pursued both the bass and starting seriously in probably I, I took up the guitar and I got, I I got obsessed with rock music and music is, if you ask me what I listen as far as even, today, I, I would say I probably lean more towards listening and I'm gonna guess that, when you a big part of, what inspired you? Yes, I played in the orchestra. During my undergraduate I played bass in the orchestra. My undergrad was at Ithaca College. My master's degree was at when I was at New England, most in jazz groups, jazz combos. And, I love ensemble playing. That's something that I miss these days. I don't, unless I'm reading a score, I don't it doesn't, it's not part of many of got so big, there's so few people I end up doing most of my demonstrations enjoy them in that way. that's something that I want to get preparation of artists these days. But let's save that for a little later. you tell a story about, being introduced 3 as being one of those, aha moments. what was that like? did you know the music before? Or was it something before, things that, that, that my mom would listen PBS, or whatever the thing was. We had WXXI in Rochester. and you would play, when I was playing the of Bach pieces, but It wasn't until the this ensemble, as I told the story in a the Brandenburg in G Major was the piece, And when I listened to the music, 3. album from the Fairport Public Library. And I started listening to them I was, I couldn't believe that It just blew me away. Yeah. It's, and it's, of course, great because line so you actually have something block chords or anything like that. Yeah, you've got a real moving line there. So I'm really interested about, being College, which is not far away, but, they didn't have a guitar I, I did take lessons, Gene Bertoncini was one of the And then, Steve Brown taught, one at Ithaca College, which is one of Cause, cause I took, I took a short, One year was Gene, and then one year Ithaca, the first day I got there, I went said, I played first chair in the high I'd like to keep playing bass, and he bass, and he had me play, had me sight a bass major instead of a guitar major? And I thought, can I play in orchestra? And he said, absolutely. And so I said, okay. And I switched my major from guitar at Ithaca. So this is a question for Only classical, but, it isn't a big solo spend on the Botticini Concerto? I've spent some time, definitely. we, the, It's funny, because a lot of my why I didn't play jazz bass, and yet saw these as separate things, and playing in the orchestra, or even in orchestras, I had bass, bass players. bass parts in them. and honestly, Brian, that's at this point in my life. I'm 62 and I would, I have a bass and I again while I'm, still, capable of doing Okay, listeners, if you're, was, I think, a casting call. Maybe, an opportunity to do some, and transcriptions. We love transcriptions. Now, one of the things that, that comes a kind of a fearless determination. You didn't get into Ithaca easily, actually were, teaching at Ithaca, A, is this just a peculiarity of those things so badly that nothing probably both. I, When you teach, I taught and, when I look at the other 60 years old and teaching here still. And I thought that can't be all I want to do other things. I want to play different types of music. and. I had gotten signed to a publishing deal me to take a leap of faith and leave and go try to make it as a songwriter, didn't fail at, but then ended up in where I was the most successful. which ended up leading to YouTube. Yeah. But that, that fail that That was a couple of, pretty hard Yes. Yeah. I was, I really struggled for the I tried to make it. I got really in debt. I had to move home with my parents scratch and ended up down here in I've been here, so I've It'll be 30 years next And becoming a producer. first of all, it's an enormously creative You're basically, in many ways, cases an actual creator of the album. not to denigrate the role of the but, but the producer has an enormous product, as does the mixer and, so on. How did you decide this was, What was the first opportunity to move the songs to, to standing behind, to the artists out in the studio? I always enjoyed the recording process. It was, I loved being in the studio. I loved working on songs, even though I was, I would play on records, my They'd ask me to come to play, I never ran the mixing console and. I had, I was in a band that had and we had a few months And my lawyer, Reid, who's still I said to him, we had So we had no salaries to live on. And I had to get a job And he said, why don't you produce And I was like, I don't know about that. I don't really know much He's what are you talking about? You've been in the studio so many times. So I went to a friend's studio. He had, he, my lawyer Reed connected and I learned the recording process. In the meantime, I taught, questions of other people that. worked at the studios I worked at. And that was, and I found that to be one I had ever done is actually the recording. How to mic things, how microphones understanding acoustics, how to mic mic a piano for, jazz, for classical that stuff is absolutely fascinating. And honestly, Brian, to this day, it's love the engineering, the mixing part of it. There's a, there's all these skills that playing all different styles of music. And I think that they come together And, but I enjoy a lot of actually getting great sounds. That's, to me, so interesting. And, of course, if you're the artist, you go back if it doesn't sound good. that's really disappointing. It's like putting a pin in a balloon. So Yeah, nothing worse than, Which you had done to you. I had done to me. I don't like to harp on it too much. I was in a band, and we, the, that the results weren't stellar. It was a disaster and That's really hesitant to get into it at first But this to ever happen to someone else So there were two sides of you have to have thought, I that's true, you know That's I thought Someone's got to be successful. Why couldn't it be me? right, What's really striking about on day one of your life or even your that I'm going to be, at this age, going to be here, and at the end of letting the royalties roll in, enjoying None of that stuff. You, basically were wandering and I like trying new things. I like going in different I like going to different Some of my biggest videos The John Dowland video that I did, or it's, you never know what, and I just, I make videos on YouTube interested in an awful lot of things, a instruments, the, from music theory to, criticism or critiques of, of, I made a video. I went to Leipzig in 2019 or 2018. I made a video on Bach and, It's a beautiful video. thank you. And, I was supposed to go this year. I did a, show in, or last I can't even remember the year. I did a show in, in Germany, in Berlin. I think it was last October. Now I can't even remember what year it is. And I was scheduled to I was going to do a Mozart I was going to go to Bonn. I was going to go to Vienna. I was going to go to Salzburg, and do had some, laser surgery in my eye and I So I had to shorten my trip just But I plan on returning to It'll be fantastic. now you, relate on your channel how you So that's definitely paying your dues. and after years of all this hard working with so many other people, skills, you decide to stop producing. Huh? like why? in, at the end of 2015, I made this video the studio that was a singer that My son And I was showing my friend Shane, I was that, and Dylan was naming the notes, or were. And so Shane said, Hey, can you make a And I said, yeah, I'll make one for you. I was getting ready to I was on my kid's school, the And I said, Hey, Dylan, come downstairs. I want to record something. And he says, no, I don't want to. And I was like, come on, just out. It'll just take one minute. And so I said to my wife, Nina, I said, How long is this going to take? I said, one minute. It's okay, come on, Dylan, downstairs. Dylan comes down. He's got a mouthful of candy. And I just put up my iPhone. I was like, I'm just going to play some some chords, and so it was about a minute I go to the school board meeting, I call the video for Angie, so she can watch school board meeting, he calls me up, and I said, what do you mean, I only He goes, it's got 5, 000 views. I said, is that a viral video? I thought viral videos He said, you wait. And then the next day, it had 22, And then by the next And it got millions and millions of views. And I got crazy. All these professors from universities. Dylan was naming these really complex augmented over D flat augmented. All these, crazy things that, that Like how can this 8 year old kid, It's does he know what all these chords are? Like how can he recognize them? that kind of got my, I, if you asked my son Dylan, wouldn't have a YouTube channel. So where's my cut? But they wouldn't know He's got a beard, mustache, and I was, I keep trying to get him back his pitch is still as good? Yes. Oh, it's phenomenal. That's great. That's great. So that sounds like it was the Yeah. So that was, that was on Facebook started doing some teaching videos. Cause a lot of people, I get, people from conservatories wrote me. How could, how did you teach him? How did he recognize these chords? How did he learn music So I would go on and do these live things, little ear training things, And I, would do some But, if I played any music, the videos And, one of my friends who's, who is an And I said, there's nobody's going to And he said, no, I'm telling So I started all my early videos are music theory, modes, ear training. And, and I went over a lot of the because I would, not just modes of and the harmonic minor, but some odd harmonic major scale, and these modes And I would do breakdowns I do recreations of, of little film And I do, do, Like a score reduction to a piano reduction of These things about the theory of what the what were developed and that's really how at all for almost for about 18 months It was all in on You Improvisation. It was classical music and jazz. which is funny because then later it was from doing the things that I production and the song breakdowns. having been in the classical the CD revolution, it was 1. 75 percent of record sales. So it tells you where it is. but, I Assume, I didn't know your numbers, but I'm gonna guess you 20, 000 followers in that phase. Okay. So no, I actually had 200, 000 followers. there you go. So I, I found a way to, And it was Nobody did, it seems like an lectures on music theory and that But I have videos that have whiteboard lectures essentially. And I do whiteboard lectures on how equalization works, how do you to place my, and I would, Draw on the examples for people to hear and yeah. As the channel evolved, you terrific regular features. One of my favorite is, where, what I like about it is, that far as getting the whiteboard out for, you do, Serious analysis. You look at the harmonic structure, look at the instrumentation, the mix, saying, I love it because it makes or, it really gets my blood pumping, that's fine. There's a million channels But to actually understand that when I was in the business, I always counteract is this image that the in those days has, is that this thing They have no idea what went into go through it, how much training Even the simplest music. is highly complex. Just to get to today's tuning and, a lot of great minds, we today, but he was a big dude back anyway, so the idea of bringing that be, Part of everyone's playlist, part Were you convinced from the outset that I experimented on a live stream. I have a second channel, Rick Beato 2, I had a few thousand followers and at night and never list the videos. I never put descriptions And I had a, a hundred And one night I played some, multi And everybody was, saying And then my intern Rhett that, had told And he said, Oh, you should do do these song breakdowns. And I came up with the idea And I did it and it was And, I'm sure you've got, a list in your of the songs you still want to take on. But, so what does make a song great? the, the late science fiction writer is 90 percent of everything is crap. And I'm thinking, actually, maybe It's probably higher than 90%. Yeah, 96 percent I like to Yeah, but the thing is, I actually virtually nobody, sets out to make crap. they study, they work, they, don't want to do lousy work. Clearly, there are some elements that ones that kind of live forever and take your memory, your emotional life, or just What, have you been able to common from, your exploration hmm. I think that, the element of surprise, music uses a lot of, upper extensions, non chord tones, but scale tones. And a lot of, What you might consider uses, we'll use the flat 6 on a minor and uses the 13th on minor chords and like that, that jazz musicians would I was just listening 54. there's the, my favorite version is from I believe August with Russell which is one of my absolute favorite And the, With, the weird hybrid piano, the way he With a weird hybrid harpsichord piano. I don't know what Tax in the, felts. Yes, and it's a wonderful version of it piece performed and the tempo is too fast when Glenn Conducted it played along. I always think to myself that on it as he's conducting but the it really brings out the richness of he talks about the opening chord, that you would, not find anything of that, that level of dissonance and, And those elements, those haunting tones, you want to call them, sting like the those things in the choruses of songs, them all the time, Sting does them, Joni That's just something that, for songs that to, they have those elements in the right lyric and it makes people over. And if someone is writing and use some of those changes not just because it packs an emotional punch. It basically says, This is the in the lyrics that, where my heart where I discovered my true bliss, And this is actually something amazing how many people, when they only thing in music is the melody. Melody is important, of course, it's language of music in the West, Western how the harmony moves and changes and, how from, what seemed like a stable, fixed that Beethoven was really a master at. and, and it's also interesting can change musical perception. You did one on, James Bond, and I Tristan chord, which basically you for about the next hundred years. It's, this oddly dissonant chord at the opera Tristan and Isolde, which is about never is consummated until five hours So that, that chord resolves. In the section at the end of the opera because it's a love so powerful that experiencing the height of their passion. some people have called it the greatest but regardless, it's a chord. One chord can have that much power. Yeah, The Rite of Spring, that one there's a lot of examples in music. The Bach one to me, it was when piano and he starts playing, and, the, but the beautiful mood and the intensity of it. And. When I've interviewed composers, one of my favorite film composers. interview. And, thank you. And, his sense of harmony is so unique. And, and you really, it's interesting cause, cause, It's one of the few places that you hear in John Williams and Thomas Newman and, Shore, just all these, great composers were music on paper composers. And, And I always gravitated towards that. I love, late romantic, impressionistic I was a fan of Stravinsky and Schoenberg and as well as all the, romantic Beethoven. and, it's just, there's so few places that you have to go to soundtracks, and soundtracks nowadays are just based on detailed writing like in a John Williams, fanfare that, like in the end of E. T. or something like that, you rarely motifs and that develop ideas that characters and things like that. and it's, I don't know, but I got on a tangent there, but to bring emotion to music. It's not just the melody, the melody and the harmony. Yeah, absolutely. And honestly, if you strip out the essentially all of its emotional appeal. It becomes a nursery rhyme Of course, the harmony is also sometimes don't, exist without each other. you, touched on film music, and had about eight questions forward, so actually did think that conversation and also your tribute to John Williams. I've had the pleasure of doing podcasts Harry Gregson Williams, who's a protege the English choral tradition, which is his, Ridley Scott film on the Crusades, there's an enormous amount of But, what I've always thought is important, development in 20th century And I, would second that. But I think the second most important it's a genre unto itself that, because don't listen to it by itself, with the Star Wars, and so on. But one of the things that I really composers is four different attributes. One is their ability to build on That would be a good example would be John yep. Second, bringing the more challenging like 12 tone music, to a wide audience. Jerry Goldsmith. did that a lot, to create a you could recognize immediately. Bernard Herrmann would And then finally, and I think this is music in almost any style, reflecting And that takes serious chops. It does. That's, John Williams is one of the few write in any genre and convincingly, it's He hears, I mean it's really remarkable how gifted he is. It's but that's the thing The great ones, they can do that. Yep. The only thing I really wish is the Basically, by the time they're done with And because I think that this music have a life in the concert hall. They really ought to. Force themselves to sit down and into extended works that can be played to other people to create medleys. I hate medleys. and, figure out how to connect the feels like a single piece of music. I actually, not to get sidetracked, but Rings, I immediately wanted, for my record And that's when I first And I went to, see, the CEO of then, Columbia Artists, which agency, that no longer exists. And, and I said, I want to do this. So he said, okay, talk to Howard. see what I care. he didn't take it seriously. And I said, and I did meet with Howard him, and I said, Look, one of the Prokofiev's Music to Alexander Nevsky, We want to turn, Lord of And he said, Great, I don't own it. New Line Cinema owns it, Talk to them. So that's where, it ended. But I think that's a really significant example, music like, pick an example of, more contemporary music. Jerry Goldsmith wrote an unbelievably called Seconds with Rock Hudson. an amazing film, John Frankenheimer film. And he also wrote the music to the which also is a very avant garde score. These things is. would be, great in a concert hall. I agree. I agree. I'm not sure. That's an interesting point that to the music because these are all Although I'm not, I don't know Williams, in his contracts, if I suspect he has enough bargaining yeah. but, the use of avant garde music and film, average listener will accept the type if it's the Bernard Herrmann's, the that's the, x cell as you would call out in different, in different octaves, a lot of people, your average listener that because it would be too dissonant visual it makes perfect sense and I just find that fascinating and I I will write little, examples when example, and I will do a demonstration. I'll write these little pieces mode, and I always put visuals. I'll do some type of B roll or something want to look at a black screen, and something that looks appropriate, to them. to go with the music, which is It's like, how do you capture the mood? Thomas Newman, we, talked about does a sharp four sound like? The Lydian sound. And he uses terms like And, and historically, I don't know Why does that mode sound right. yeah, I'm, I'm, a big fan of film music I'm able to do the things and I would, Newman, I couldn't even figure out how with a film composer because it's the But it's not really the music business. The film business is so they They use different Not it's so self contained. It's really hard to meet these And nowadays, the successful ones build the days of the big Hollywood motion an orchestra mostly of, 90, escapees from players, but you'd get a guy like Korngold would basically write the score out on and ear having seen a cut of the film get and how they could get it all to sync up. But basically, there was really except what they did live with a big over the heads of the players. which is pretty it is amazing. amazing. And if you hear those scores, They just knock your socks off. by the way, this is going to connect is how technology helps and hurts. nowadays, of course, there may be an expected to produce, either a midi or idea to show the director, hopefully Famously, Alfred Hitchcock did not. And that's how his relationship threw away the score to Torn Curtain. and, and then, you use samples, and you almost complete score, and then, I almost They go to Abbey Road Studios an orchestra together and do it. Often live. and that's what ends up in the soundtrack. After the people who do the sound through mucking with it and the guy So that's why you never really realize how it by itself and by a soundtrack album. one of the things that I've noticed in I, interviewed Thomas Newman, we talked cue was behind the dialogue, in a film of just music with video overlay and maybe Bond, he'd have these beautiful written, Yet when you listen to it on the, pull CD, you realize how beautiful it is. But exactly. And also, for, some films, how much music anyway, just to shift a little Now, you regularly look at top ten you often find that the artists who are you've never heard of, Probably you're and the songs aren't particularly and this is something you've among other things, the sort algorithm driven streaming process. The progressively lower levels Xerox copy plug ins of, backing tracks And, and that I think has gone lamentations about the decline in And also there's the, amount of of it that's being produced. Produced. is it that making things just and actually cheap, cheapens them? I think that, that music is, when like turning on a water faucet. I made a video about that where on the faucet and this is Spotify. Everything you can imagine is on here. You can interrupt the stream of entire catalog of, albums. And, and it was interesting. I had a, I asked my 11 year old school, Layla, I said, Layla, do you And she said, no. And I said, what do you talk about? Video games? She said, no. I said, what are you talking about? She said, we talk about things students, with the teachers. And what would we talk about? I said, I don't know. I used to talk about music with my And, and people don't, She says, no, we never talk about music. And, and there's a comment that was ago, a discussion with a good friend a teacher that said that his students, never discuss music anymore. And, that's a, really depressing thought and it's because maybe because people, it's have the meaning it had when you had to go out and get a job and do that. And I have said that in one of my videos. I said music is too easy to make and those are both bad things. I, I know that more than one generation, has the experience of, traveling to a in their life to buy a record album. in my case, it was I actually, I remember this so clearly. I, We used to watch the CBS Evening News the day that they, there's the human will computers ever make There's this amazing new album called has basically replaced the, 18th century and triodes and, transistors, and little interview with Walter Cronkite. Then Walter Carlos, now Wendy so cool, I can't believe it. And then of course Glenn Gould in High Fidelity magazine calling finally voice leading that is really pan plot it to its own spot and create And so I thought, I want that. But I ended up deciding instead music originally sounded like. So I went to Eaton's department little ways away from where I lived. In those days, department They were stocked by what were called rack jobbers. Rack jobbers, there's an extinct A compilation that, that, CBS Bach, which is actually the first because he, they substituted his for the ones on, on, on the album. And that was basically the And then the other sort of up enough money, usually in high You, probably remembered, like whether you a grocery store, I was about to say. And you went and it's like you can I afford the Pioneer SX 365? Or, I gotta have that dual turntable. There were no CDs, right? And, And, the endless hours, learning how required, effort on our part, on how you cartridge if you accidentally, caused All that stuff that we basically grew up It wasn't hard, per se, but it was an of the final experience when you got it, read the program notes, if there cover art, a foot square, imagine a foot frame and put on your wall, right? Now I see that smile, right? So reliving that joy. I, Brian, I still have never gotten rid of them. So yes. I, sadly, after many years, I got threatening to fall through the floor. but, but, the point is that music wasn't And it also was made in a different way. it's hard to believe. think about Sun Studios, right? And Elvis first records There was nothing in that room, right? What, a microphone? Probably, what, a single track No, it would have been a single Because they didn't bring And we still can't get over how And now we can't get over exactly. But still, creates, and at the same music because kids are prepared to cross the Atlantic to hear Taylor Swift. That's Yes. Yeah, people want to go out and see music. That's very true. And that's, that's one of the done extremely well over the last And, and, That's exciting to me. that's, that's, because, that's the People talk about AI and things like that. Yep. And you can't fake a, a live human but, And particularly the stadium concert well as a purely musical experience. Yeah. I also worry about, how we're too busy, first of all, most of us. So most people listen to music in the they're commuting to work, when they're I had a thing that my dad and I albums and dad, my dad would buy jet. One of his things after he retired, and look for bootlegs or records He'd bring them home and we'd sit one side and we wouldn't say a word. We'd sit on opposite sides of And then I'd get up and. flip it over and play And we would listen to All the time we did this. This is a, one of my favorite things. That's when I think of my dad, things that come to mind. My dad passed away in 2004 and, I It was amazing. Joe Pass. Joe Pass. Yeah. If you can play, like that you've kids, listen, that's anyone who's pick a favorite song, Headphones because they isolate, right? And just turn off the lights, avoid visual I know it's a monumental effort of the room, power it down, and just listen excluding everything else so that it's and you're going to be amazed. Really, you will be amazed. I try to, every time I get new and I get them to tell me how they sound. And it's fascinating to see them focus them because this is that deep listening. But I'm doing it, I'm, let's listen to something else. What do you think? How does this sound compared to this? And then they're putting on the headphone, I'm addicted to headphones. I love having many different pairs a pretty daring decision with your need to illustrate the music you talk willingly accepted horror of horrors and more recently copyright strikes. Now for listeners who don't know you explain what this means? And, how this is like the stake through get, demonetized or get three strikes. and, how this has actually affected that really takes some cojones to do. Yeah, I realized early on that It's okay, the way you make money It's not your subscribers by views, but if claimed and they, it'll, you get an email. It says copyright claim So the people that write the music, right? Unless you claim fair use, if they determine that it's fair use, which, or it's Bach or Dowland. that's right. they, then the person that wrote the your video, they'll, in a 20 minute video, record label. It's usually not the artist. they never see a cent of it and, they, so I realized that early on, it's because the only way you can demonstrate So I'm going to just, not make money from the videos if they And, the only things that would when the videos got taken down. And that was really, I get, angry about that. and they've, and, they've, really changed since I started. back in 2016, and now you just they almost never block your I've only ever gotten one actual strike, trying to think what it was I don't remember what it was for. I got one copyright strike, And they last for 90 days. And if you get three copyright they take your channel down. and it's happened and ever. forever and ever. They delete your channel. and I've seen people's I've seen people that I don't know on Twitter or something like that, And, YouTube is very good about working As a matter of fact, in the last few years, I don't know taken, that's gotten taken down. maybe I'm, you, the people at they will help you figure it out. this is actually very interesting. you're talking about fair use in Canada. We call it fair dealing. It's a similar concept. You're using it for educational comment, et cetera, et cetera. All of which I think you could argue. is the case for many of these the other thing that, that, if I can percent Beato and 5 percent clips, right? as far as I'm concerned, It's a composite work, But also the fact is that when generate a minimum of 100, 000 fresh If it's a classic, people think about in years, they go back and listen to it. If they're, younger people and they've curious and they go and listen to it. So you're, you should be getting a royalty I, the last point, you talked a bit Don Henley from the Eagles, who's worth And he's like staying up at night and these, mice that are infesting his 60 people working on his copyright in his congressional testimony hearing I was part of where I got interviewed as well. the amazing thing is that I made that John many views that video's got of millions of views that, Millions. And, and I did it. I used to listen to that Julian drove my wife nuts with it. That was on, it's been on YouTube it was a Japanese, from a Japanese. Re broadcast from a Japanese TV show Sting actually performed that on, on his Oh, I like that. That's way better. Okay. But, but, the, The idea to do that, and I used to play it for my son wife was like, what is that music? I'm like, what are you talking about? It's John Dowland. Who's John Dowland? I said, John Dowland is one of the era. And she's what? Yeah. that's really interesting because it you've touched on in your videos, is that, this is music that is Originally, in the Bream Concert, broken concert, but, originally Lute was a huge, and by The West stole the lute from Oud, which is still played. That was the, one of the, one of the, bits Yes, luting! Exactly! We were. God, it's, it fills me with might have to take some lutes. Anyway, the, sorry. but, dynamics, volume. Loud doesn't always mean quiet. Equate to emotional, because the Bach's favorite keyboard clavichord. That's an even softer Clavichord is one of I've, I interviewed Keith Jarrett and, at time I went to visit him, to meet me and it was amazing how quiet it is. And, I was, I made a video on, that was, I, I didn't put the video out actually, the volume of the clavichord and, out how to do a representation of it that, you essentially one person, You can, you barely can hear it unless you're right next to it. And, but I couldn't figure alone, get ahold of one. So Yeah. What's cool about the clavichord It, the connection between the that you can actually play vibrato yes, there's a album that Keith It came out in 1987. That's him playing clavichord, He's playing two at once. I think maybe three at and it's very loud. It's, you get an unreal, is until you actually hear it. And he's wait, it's that quiet. And it sounds, but it's just, and he just didn't breathe. He told me he was playing and Cause it would, they were so loud. The mic pre's were. Andrea Schiff does a, there's an probably, I don't know, 2017 or so. And he's talking about the well tempered version of him where he sits down and clavier front to back At the Royal Albert it's an hour and 50 minutes, but he talks he talks about the well tempered clavier it can it wasn't necessarily meant to talked about Bach's favorite instrument only, one or two people can hear it, Exactly. play it in concert. the other thing about Bach that's really when he was the, the, Thomas produce basically an hour of music. Now, write it, orchestrate it, copy and the, instrument, and the musicians for Sunday, I, I can't even imagine. even, I can't fathom that and For 20 years, For 20 years and then and also having 20 but it's Insanity how much music Yeah, struck me about, one of those wasn't a music biz in those days. There was either a church that hired and Bach got in trouble with his royal in the slammer for about a month. there were bad boys back then. but anyway, just, what Right? Film music and music composers some, musicians who are very popular there's vaults full of stuff But, the process of generating an album, 20, 25 albums in their entire career? if they're lucky. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Versus, let's say, I don't know, produced 500 songs, 9 symphonies, sonatas, a few choral works, and, and It's you can have quality and quantity. What a thought. Yeah, the, the lives that these, these to 30, Mozart made it to, what, 35, 36, I believe he died before he turned 57, And they were just, all end. exactly. And the other thing, of course, is physical distress when, during their most, like almost all of them were. Beethoven, in addition to his most of the final years of his life. If you listen to, I think it's, Number 15, which has this piece where remission from whatever was ailing Quizzically, unbelievably moving Dankesang, the Holy Song of Thanks, Bach wrote his greatest piece really on he'd suffered an eye ailment, had, if you Yes, and had to dictate the final, the final into the last one, which is unfinished. Okay, The role of technology basically anything is possible now. You can make anything sound like anything. You can create samples of anything. You can make a record without really, knowing much about You've been pretty vocal about that it seems to me this is like the greatest That, you can have all of these take away your skills or make your the time comes that you really yeah, that's the, that's the era it's, we've spanned many different to where computers write songs for us. I brought this just because I know you'd an Edison cylinder, this is four minutes playing down a, big room length horn that needle into a wax master, and they had a mistake, or you threw it away, right? And no editing, no mixing, no And by the way, the no nothing of magnetic tape, which really came War, even though it existed earlier. so you could actually, do punch tracking and all the rest of it. So it's amazing that anyone wants do, Duke Ellington during the Cotton And even though it's, it is has come a long way too. So that's a good thing. But, but, you've created, actually, this is a It's one of the ways that you made up back to being an educator again. Everything you really do is educational, because one of the things that really popular Beato books is ear training. Again, for the non musicians, today it's needed more than ever. ear training is, important for playing out music with, if you don't have the, it to you, or a YouTube tutorial. it's the ability to, recognize the, to the next, whether it's a harmonic simultaneously or a melodic interval If you hear a chord, I, talk about things like developing If I hear a dominant seven sharp, I know what that sounds like. If I hear a double augmented chord, I know what that sounds like. and, and you're, and you do this through It doesn't, we don't, when I was in You'd, they play a melody. You'd have to write out what the note now that's not so important, but intervals are and sound out a melody. is incredibly important if you're if you're a guitarist and trying to play a your head, can you play the melody without This is why it's so And and hearing a song, when I hear a recognize what the chord structure is. I don't have perfect pitch, but basically what ear training okay, that starts on the four chord. That's a four, one, six, five. Oh, and the, the six chord is secondary dominant, things like that. so I've spent a lifetime doing ear training and still do all the time. And, doesn't everybody who becomes a That's a leading question. Because I assume that they don't, it's funny is that we You could not get a music degree and, and ear training. And you had two years to do that. And if you didn't do that, you couldn't And when I was a professor at Ithaca, these remedial ear training classes. and they were for people that to graduate, that there were So I, a lot of my ideas for teaching that really were not good at it, that, that had failed at any of people taught ear training with? because we didn't, where I taught. They didn't use solfege that, so they would teach by intervals. And, and so that's where I for, for my ear training And for people who, I'm sorry to veer back your Leipzig visit, you had a very brief Bach pieces, the Motet Jesu, Meine Freude. Now, if you want to hear what ear training in that piece when Or, if you want to get even more the Renaissance music, where it's especially, the ones who really focused on Palestrina, Jez Waldo, Jez Waldo, you, he also made some really make some ugly sounding things, think of that these Renaissance that, that you wouldn't hear for, that Some, of it because of the use which I think is fascinating. That's why I always just the unpredictability of it. Absolutely. And, I did want to actually mention and that's The 20 Greatest Musical you need to do a part two, because unless think you mentioned the microphone. Yeah. Microphone. that was definitely an omission Yeah. Yeah. an important thing since I exactly. And it's the microphone is really first of all, again, a lot of people different kinds of microphones. You've got omnidirectional, many, and how you use them is It really, probably. Until you start, digitizing and being thing that probably affects the sound more the photographer choosing his lens. And, yeah, I love microphones. My partner, who is my record he, worshipped certain kinds were so beautifully made. They were precision instruments, On my last, trip to Berlin, I went and got a tour of, of Neumann. And I love microphones and, you're right, they are, nothing the instrument like a microphone. A microphone is an equalizer. It's a, it's a tone shaping tool that just placing it in a different spot can make such a radical difference. I remember when, when my partner pair of Neumann, I think they were guy who would basically do a custom original diaphragm, which made them it's Oh, it used to be Technicolor, you, do amazing interviews. And you've interviewed some truly May from Queen, Bella Fleck, Brad Dan, George Benson, Keith Jarrett, Pat And one of the things, I love the fact who's, who's been in, in the arena, right? As, peer to peer. That means, I think, a lot in But I also really love how you did That was the one that you did, with the Oscar Peterson, who, by the way, is going and since he's one of our, native. Yes. Glenn Gould Prize winner, we're very good friends what is it that really, for First thing that I can just suggest from you're like, a kid in a candy shop, and the people you admire a lot. But there's a lot more that So how do you prep for an interview? First of all, I only interview people with, and sometimes they're both. There are people that I'm and, When I, I think the most important I give people the space and I don't cut them to bits complete their thoughts and sometimes remember, I had Andy Summers, the And I don't know if Andy's It was an hour and a half or so. And, I'll usually ask a question and interrupt, I don't, and I sit there and And when I don't interrupt, then So I can keep going. And then they, do and. And I think that, in addition to knowing who the, what the songs in each album them, who mixed them, what the, I, can album, not Pat Metheny or Brad Mill. I've done a lot of Pat Metheny. I couldn't play any Keith Jarrett, all the people that are rock musicians, I can play all the parts of their songs that's a very handy thing when you're really speak the language in that way. do, you're doing live shows now, right? I've done a number of them. Yeah. Yeah. shows? I. It's set up like a, like I come out and I talk to the audience. I show things on the big screen then I get audience participation, Did you ever get people I've heard some young listeners really don't love music the way we used to. You've gotten a couple of a sort of a spirited to and fro? Nah, not really. And, I love it when people have I think it's, I think it's great. I, When people make videos, if go for it. I I love it. Another thing that I really love people don't necessarily expect, for So cool. What a, what an artist. yeah. you're doing a great And I have to say that, if people who are now listening respect, attention and appreciation. It is such a wonderful universe to explore, and guys like Rick we're gaining so much because we but we're losing at the same time. And, man, you're doing so much more those parts that have been lost, and Thank you, Brian. I appreciate it. Appreciate you having me on. Very and thank you for being so welcome. The Glenn Gould Foundation is a on the support of arts lovers like you. To keep bringing inspiring stories visiting our website, Glenn Gould media at The Glenn Gould Foundation. Thank you so much for joining us for