Germany has a problem with floods. &quot;A state of emergency has been declared in parts of the South.&quot; &quot;...the deadliest floods in living memory.&quot; &quot;Germany saw its heaviest rainfall in a century.&quot; One big reason is that we've messed with the natural flow of rivers. And this isn't just a German problem. The same thing is happening all over the world. And now we're paying the price. As climate change brings more extreme weather, these changed landscapes are more prone to destructive flooding. &quot;But in this forest, things are different. It's become a role model for how we can flood-proof our rivers -- even in cities.&quot; &quot;So, how did they do that?&quot; Rivers aren't supposed to look like this. Today, many of them are straight, narrow, deep, depleted and surrounded by concrete. That's because humans have a long history of changing rivers and their landscapes so they can use them for farming, industry, transportation and to build houses close to their edge. &quot;This river here is a great example of how we have messed with our landscapes. As you can see, it's been straightened, regulated, and diked. Also, parts of the floodplains on its sides, which would usually provide space for overflowing water, have been drained and filled.&quot; The rivers and floodplains in this area serve an important function, though. They cross the cities of Leipzig, Markkleeberg, and Schkeuditz and are supposed to store and supply water to one of the largest urban floodplain forests in Central Europe that is home to many animals and plant species. But from the middle of the 19th century, dams and bridges for railroads were built here -- right through the forest. And during that process, former river courses in this area were cut off and are now lying dry. And all this means they can no longer supply water to the floodplain forest. &quot;And that's not just happening here...&quot; Around two thirds of the floodplains along Germany's 79 major rivers can no longer serve their original purpose of storing excess water because of the dikes built to stop water from reaching them. One third of the remaining floodplain areas are covered by fields and houses. And it's happening across Europe, where 70-90% of floodplains have been environmentally degraded. Asia and the Americas are also struggling with depleted floodplains. &quot;So why is that a problem?&quot; Floodplains are not only important ecosystems. They also absorb and store carbon from the atmosphere, helping tackle climate change. And, maybe most importantly for the people who live along the rivers: they keep flash floods in check. &quot;Functioning floodplain forests are very, very important for us because they retain water in the landscape for a longer period. It means that we have this crucial sponge function.&quot; That's Mathias Scholz, a floodplain ecologist. He's been studying the role of rivers and coastal wetlands for decades. &quot;If we no longer have floodplains and floodplain forests, water flows out of the landscape very, very quickly, leading to increasingly large flood waves that cause significant damage. This damage is enormously high for society.&quot; That's why Scholz -- together with the cities of Leipzig and Schkeuditz, the University of Leipzig and the environmental association NABU -- decided to give the floodplain landscape here a more natural face again. &quot;Forty years ago, we already noticed that this floodplain forest was undergoing a process of expansion. Many trees developed here that are no longer flood-resistant, displacing the tree species typically found in the floodplain forest.&quot; &quot;Oak trees like this one and elm trees like this one started to die off, while other species that are a lot less resilient to flooding, like maple, started to spread.&quot; &quot;When the floodplain dries out, the sycamore maple, which grows right next to it, takes over. You can see it very clearly here; it also produces a white milky sap. And then the other species find it really difficult to compete.&quot; &quot;And the other species are the ones that actually protect us against flooding?&quot; &quot;Exactly, because those species are highly resistant to flooding.&quot; That's because those species can handle being flooded better than others. They can also handle droughts better. And they suck moisture out of the soil, which decreases the amount of water contributing to flash flooding events. So, the researchers had an idea. They started purposely flooding a small area of the forest every spring for decades. And watched what happened. &quot;We realized that we can maintain moist conditions in the forest for up to 3 months longer, even during drought periods, allowing the floodplain forest to adapt to these wetter, more dynamic conditions. At the same time, other species that do not belong here receded, providing space and light for tree species typical of the floodplain forest.&quot; They literally trained the forest to be able to soak up more water again. &quot;Even if trees are flood-resistant, if they do not experience flooding for a long time, they may 'forget' how to cope with it or adapt to it.&quot; Scholz says the data they collected over 30 years tells the story of an ecosystem going back to its natural state. This is a 3D model of a 7-hectare forest area that they flooded and surveyed for three decades. Just look at how many red trees there were before they started flooding the area -- those are untypical, sometimes invasive species that are not so resilient to floods and drought. And now look how many green trees came back once they started flooding the area. Those are typical, native floodplain trees, which are resistant to floods and droughts. &quot;Here you can clearly see how the maple is dying. This area has been underwater for several weeks. And right next to it is the flood-tolerant European ash, which looks very healthy.&quot; They were surprised by how fast the forest went back to its natural state once they started adjusting the water levels. &quot;For us, these are nature-based solutions to mitigate the extreme events we expect from climate change.&quot; &quot;So, how exactly did they flood the area?&quot; &quot;As early as the late 1990s, the city of Leipzig began reconnecting old channel systems in the floodplain, like this one here, the Burgauenbach, to the main water bodies so that the forest could receive water again.&quot; That's Reiner Werner, who is the head of hydraulic engineering and water management. &quot;We reconnected the still existing old historical channel systems, meaning we had to restore this ditch here by hand in part. And then we built an inlet structure to channel water through the dike back into these channel systems.&quot; They then cut out several parts of the dike on the river side so that the water can naturally overflow into the floodplain. &quot;We are seeing clear results with the increase in groundwater levels, which have been documented. Significant results are visible and quantifiable in the forest in a very short time, even with such a small water body.&quot; &quot;Back then, it was easy to get a permit for an undertaking like that.&quot; &quot;Today, it is much more complicated. There are new guidelines, EU regulations, that must be followed. Much more evidence and estimates are required. It is not as simple as it used to be.&quot; But that didn't stop the city from doing more. It brought together scientists, NGOs and local officials in 2018 to come up with a concept to rejuvenate the entire floodplain over the next 30 years. &quot;And they just finished their first project. They restored this historic riverbed here and designed it in a way that it can overflow more naturally, regularly and predictably -- like it did in the past before we altered rivers.&quot; &quot;As you can see very well here, we have moved the field relatively far away from the forest edge, creating a huge corridor where the waters can meander freely.&quot; That's Christiane Frohberg, who was responsible for revitalizing this old riverbed. &quot;We have several exit points where, when the flood comes, the water can rise and then flow over this very shallow bank directly into the forest. This means that with the newly gained 5.5 kilometers, which we only finished constructing this year, we can flood approximately 45 hectares of floodplain forest several times a year.&quot; That's roughly the size of 84 football fields. &quot;And that's also good news for the animals who live here.&quot; Fish and rare species of insects have already settled in. &quot;But it wasn't easy to get to this point.&quot; It's a tricky process to find a balance between flooding the forest enough so it relearns how to suck up more water -- and not overflooding it, otherwise the water could permanently stay there like in a bathtub, which would change the entire ecosystem. And you have to consider different interests. &quot;We are in a major city, which means there are many interests and uses for the forest, with recreational use being very important. This means that if we flood certain areas and some paths become inaccessible in the spring during high water, we need to provide information, raise awareness, or offer alternatives. However, we have found that there is also a very high level of acceptance among the population, who deal with the situation very creatively.&quot; &quot;I am so very happy right now. Yes, because it was simply years of talking to people every day, ensuring that they are not afraid when a bit of water comes in here. And it's just wonderful to see that we now have water in this small river, which nevertheless has a significant impact.&quot; It's not just people using the forest for recreational purposes who needed to be convinced about the flooding plans. Local farmers had to be onboard as well. &quot;You can't simply expropriate people without offering alternatives. Bringing more water into the landscape doesn't necessarily mean giving up agricultural use; it just means that agricultural practices need to be adapted. So, this means that a transition from arable land to a wild meadow ultimately has to happen, but this change must also be appropriately compensated.&quot; That means instead of planting corn and rapeseed on all of their land, farmers would plant grass in some areas and sell the hay instead. They would also receive a compensation payment, Scholz says. The goal for the next 10-15 years is to revitalize more than 16 km of former arms along the river. They want to reconnect dried-up river arms and inundate at least 30% of the floodplain area via the new river, so that instead of this... the area will look like this. &quot;And here, they already started turning former farmland into a floodplain forest.&quot; They planted species resilient to flooding so that future flood waters can be sucked up by the plants like a sponge. That way, Scholz says they can also get more water to stay in the ground. Of course, projects like this come with a hefty price tag. The city of Leipzig already spent 6.5 million euros - largely funded by the German state - to buy back land and build new bridges and gateways for crossing the newly restored river. &quot;It will require a truly great effort to get this project approved here in the region and by the permitting authorities, so that further steps can be taken for the preservation of the floodplain forest, and to secure funding in the tens of millions.&quot; It sounds like a lot - but flooding is actually the most expensive natural hazard in Europe... with one study estimating that river-based flood risk could increase seven-fold to EUR6.8 billion by the end of this century. Most large European cities are situated on floodplains... these are the ones that are predicted to suffer a lot of flood damages in the future. And the changes we've made to most of our waterways are adding to the flood risk... not detracting from it. That's why EU Environmental Ministers recently approved a contested Nature Restoration Law that seeks to regrow forests, re-wet peatland and return rivers to their natural, free-flowing states. A move that Scholz welcomes. &quot;When we consider the monetary damage that extreme events ultimately inflict on our society and the long-term efforts required to address them, it becomes clear that investing in ecosystem restoration is a future-proof investment.&quot; That's why more and more European cities situated in floodplains are experimenting with nature-based approaches like this. And the project here in Leipzig has become a blueprint for others. Scholz has been cooperating with colleagues from Estonia, Spain and Portugal to share knowledge and best practices, such as how to retain water in an area as long as possible. &quot;And there's a lot that other countries can learn from their success.&quot; &quot;Above all, it's important to get the landowners and tenants, the farmers, and the foresters on board, and to make decisions together with them on-site, and not just the planners at the drawing board.&quot; &quot;When nature functions properly, it works for us, and we can benefit from nature's services. And that's an insurance policy for the future.&quot; &quot;So, do you think this nature-based approach could work where you live? Let us know in the comments and subscribe, we post videos like this every Friday.&quot;