submarines are quiet, deadly and two main types diesel powered submarines that run on nuclear ambitions since the 1950s have powered submarine can stay out unlimited range. Combined with Navy's so called Boomer sub. the history of humankind Navy specifically has a very ballistic missile submarines the US nuclear warheads. But have a set lifespan Los Angeles class attack ballistic missile and cruise and they need to be replaced. suffered a terrible tragedy in submarine you know, we don't older a ship or submarine is, an accident at sea. The Navy has of the fleet. But some problems stand in the way now the state is not great. On the way out the said over 400 ships in the so unmanned vessels so a total So how can the US Navy field the building ships is hard in harder. Boats like those in the attack submarine can cost $3.4 build. These views are my own. Department of Defense or the US are really right at the center that's an area where the US kind of an uncontested the Navy has relied on companies electric boat and Huntington these nuclear powered underwater term project, and it requires leadership to ensure that the capabilities that it has, and ships as they get older. Which known as a 30 year plan. To needs shipyards operating at Right now the Navy is go costs $21 billion to upgrade its underfunded for the past couple priorities. Right now we're very significant maintenance has 68 submarines in service and the Navy wants to start Virginia class subs per year in year until around 2035. The missile submarine capable of of miles. It's a crucial part of Navy estimates the total cost experts at the US Government concerned about the ability of current shipyards and suppliers and how many submarines that can defense budget passed in very real conversation that has budget is prioritized. This Force the army in the in the strategic reality from fiscal year 2015 to 2019. of maintenance periods for too late, you know over time, days of maintenance delay. So they've made some progress in still a lot of work to be done. plan the consequences could be China's shipbuilding the last two decades, Chinese commercial ships and military has left the US Navy with a precious tax dollars to keep up. subs and conventional subs, but close to its own shores. That submarines is less of an issue. Our nuclear strategy is sustain it we need a triad. The nuclear triad refers to the deploy nuclear weapons by land by air and by sea. The Navy important part of this job its carry a substantial portion of is the most survivable leg of nuclear submarine is out to sea, the Atlantic or the Pacific for an adversary to detect that. This is why replacing existing ballistic missiles is such a big So the Columbia class submarine submarine. The goal is a 2028 2030s. You'll start seeing them Ohio class, the Ohio class delivered in 1984. And those starting to hit the end of of Columbia game the Columbia class Navy's number one priority. In Accountability Office expressed class could take longer than more than initially expected. very tough spot. A conventional submarine is one fuel. The majority of submarines category. Conventional subs are of a nuclear accident. And they're quieter than nuclear conventional submarines known as Navy before a Swedish submarine infamous for its ability to submarine forces in 2005. During Swedish Navy boat was able to achieve a simulated killing a US carrier. So modern SS Ks are incredible advantage that's game changers in in recent very, very stealthy SS Ks for a operate closer to home. That's very similar bang for the buck, home. That's the biggest submarines. They can't stray as counterparts and they can't stay uncrewed submarines, also known or uuvs, could be able to help unmanned underwater vehicles drones that can either travel on long durations. Russia has already been working submarine that is also weapons. This submarine drone was one of systems that President Putin motivation for these is kind of puzzling. The US Navy hasn't technology yet, but other types be part of the future fleet. For submarines, ballistic missile submarines will continue to be uses to project underwater power As we talk about the growth of large that is largely fueled by Congress is concerned about the revitalize its public shipyards. you know, recently proposed bill billion. 21 of which would fund go to the private shipyards. So help the Navy speed that up how the defense budget shakes difference between building one year or three and some fewer ballistic missile look at the size of the US for comment in reference to a appraisal, the Navy said that productive capacity by delivery and operational maintenance costs, the 2018 Nuclear Posture Review against an uncertain future. our capabilities all the time, the capabilities all the time, So we need to build a nuclear force to last for decades, know, soldiers feeling like I'm from my service, you know, but it's a bigger issue. It's not a It's a recognition that we we execute the national strategy spelled out