- This thing was everywhere, endorsed by Celebrity Chef Gordon Ramsey, in every other one of my Instagram ads, especially now that I've said it out loud. (cheerful music) - The ATK reviews team has testing hundreds of products - Lisa and I thought it of our favorite and that we've reviewed recently. - [Lisa] Hannah and I are on all the gears so you or don't want in your kitchen. - First up, Lisa. (upbeat music) - The first piece of gear the eighth sheet pan, and it's called an eighth sheet pan, because it's an eighth the size of a full sheet pan you and restaurants, so this This is the sheet pan because that huge one doesn't This is the size that we use all the time in the Test Kitchen as but it's called a half sheet sheet pan, because it's literally half This is the quarter sheet pan. Again, half the size a quarter of the size of the full pan. And here's our newest the eighth sheet pan, and this is one eighth the We're gonna talk about the and the eighth sheet pans. These are incredibly useful pans. They're made by the same company as the half sheet pan we prefer, which is the Nordic Ware Naturals. It's an aluminum sheet. It is uncoated because and you don't wanna worry about a non-stick coating You wanna be able to use under high heat conditions. The quarter sheet pan is a great size for just doing a couple or some squash or some kind of side dish that you wanna make. It fits right in the toaster The eighth sheet pan, even more compact, so if or just doing a couple of cookies, you can refreeze balls of cookie dough, and bake just one or two to have as a nice little by a whole plate. These pans are great for You can lay out your ingredients. You can use it as a little tray. We often do that. Any sheet of metal can warp but these are pretty of the other kinds that One of the reasons we love these one and a quarter inch sides that are nice and straight that they're great and easy to grab, so if you have a pot holder on or a towel, you can really grab these and out of the oven. They hold all the ingredients and they're just really easy to maneuver. Some of the other ones we've not been as easy to grab and to maneuver, and just don't do the same job. So if you have the quarter sheet size, I just wanna show you some They still don't have these but there's a lid. So if you're gonna take this this little lid pops right on It's great. And if you're going to do something where you want it raised up, like say you're frying something to drain or you wanna broil with this, there's a little grid style that fits right in here and it's great. It's nice and tight and has little feet that's very supportive. This also works as a when it comes out of the oven, so you want a cooling there you go. So again, we really love these. It's the Nordic Ware Naturals in the quarter sheet They're great if you have limited space, or you just want some more Next up woks. Now, just a couple years ago I tested woks for the Test Kitchen for the first time. We had always recommended using for stir frying because we Well, we realized we We talked to Grace the wok expert, the wok and she said what we should look for, and even came in and we did a wok off between a skillet and a wok and did some of the same recipes and saw For one thing, they have high sides. They have plenty of space They're very responsive to the heat, and you can really do a lot more in a wok than you can in a plain skillet. All of the woks I looked and that's from rim to rim. That's the size that Grace for home cooks. Anything smaller, you see a it's gonna crowd the food. It's gonna pile up. It's gonna steam instead of and she said the materials for are carbon steel or The carbon steel woks They're very lightweight. They're very easy to handle and lift even when they're full of food. A lot of times with woks, and out of the wok, and that is going to be hard to lift and to work with. We liked the ones that have wooden handles because you can grab them Our winner at that time nonstick wok, and that means in the factory. It's heated up. the carbon steel acquires This gives you a little bit of a leg up on seasoning the wok. These are carbon steel, they're like carbon steel skillets. You have to season them. They're gonna turn black over which makes them non-stick, but naturally. We still love everything about this wok. The problem is it's sometimes to get. There's been a huge demand, so just recently I went for similar woks that have that we love in this wok, and now we have some that are much easier to find. So let's talk about this one. This is by Imusa. It is also, like the Taylor It's made of carbon steel, has the wooden handles, It does not come with a lid. We really do recommend getting a lid. You could buy the lid separately. It costs a little bit but once you buy a lid separately, it comes out to about the same price. The handle is a little thicker. It flares out a little For people with smaller hands, it's a little bit more of a a stretch, so that was just slightly but otherwise, in every other It acquired seasoning very of the same recipes very successfully. Then there's this one. This is by Joyce Chen. All the same characteristics that we loved in the Taylor &amp; NG, the 14 inches rim to rim, about three pounds, has a nice slender handle of all hand sizes to grab, and basically does all the same things. Again, it does not come with a lid, so you will have to buy it separately. So it starts out a little less expensive. Once you add in the lid, as the Taylor &amp; NG. Any one of these would be a I also loved robot vacuums. Now you might not think of of item, but honestly my kitchen floor is a mess. This is the iRobot Roomba J7+, and this is their latest model. It's really fantastic. This uses way points on the of other navigational features So the first time you run it, it maps the rooms and it sucks There's a regular vacuum bag in here. You never have to open and empty it out, shake it. I've tested a lot of smart that just kind of promise a This actually does what There's almost nothing about this iRobot, but We also have a great best than half the price of the Roomba. This is by Shark. It's a Shark Ion, and it's very simple. It just has a really simple little dock. You do have to empty it and to recharge, but it and when you're emptying this one, there's just a little and you dump out all the pop it back on the back, and then this dock, you just leave this plugged to the dock and plug so it's not smart like this one, it just bumps into stuff but it's like a little tank and it covers the whole area as we saw it in our time lapse photo, so this is a fantastic option You want something that that has really strong suction, so we did a measured that was identical for each model, and we put it in a penned area, the same kitchen mess, The best one, this one, pick up 100%. The worst? 59%. That is a big difference. These both had powerful suction. They had batteries that could do the job. They stayed on the job til it was done. They were really easy Some of the other ones had apps Both of them can be operated or with the app on your phone. This one just has a big button I have to say I have owned for almost the whole time maybe almost 20 years. These things are great. Don't get the ones that because honestly they're terrible. It will drive you crazy. It will not clean your house as well. We really put these through the paces, and these are the best choices. We loved a lot of the but there's a couple we and this is one that I'm Don't buy this. It's called the Ninja Creami. It's supposedly a seven in one product that can make ice cream, do mix-ins, do smoothie bowls. It only really could do and costs much more than our Even if you add in our personal blender to make the smoothies, the two of them were less and both of them did a much better job. So let's look at how it works. So you take this little jar and you freeze that. It has to be frozen hard, and there's tons of rules and not do. You can't put loose frozen fruit in here, even if you're gonna make a smoothie bowl, you have to like pack it down. It has to be solid, it has to have liquid, You can't use unsweetened, It can only do certain things, and it's making sure You take the little carafe down, and this has the lid that locks on. This inside is a blade and it basically shaves the so now you drop the frozen canister in. You latch this on. It's kind of like a food processor, so you line it up, and and then it clicks in place, so I'm gonna hit the ice cream button. (machines whirs) Don't plan on having Okay, let's take a look. This was the problem that we saw. This is kind of soupy. It's not a really good consistency. For the price, well over $200, we want this thing to nail it every time. It literally has one job, which is to make frozen, and we could not find a recipe that we could get consistent results whether we used our own or its recipes, and therefore we couldn't customize and make all the fun different flavors that you really wanna make So now you've seen some of my from this year. Let's go to Hannah and see her picks. (upbeat music) - The first of my You might not think this but if you've gotten into making bread, one of these can take your So lames score or cut This is first and foremost functional. You are allowing the bread to If you don't cut the top of your bread, you can get weird expansions This will help the bread for a consistent shape. Secondly, it's also makes them beautiful. You can cut and score all onto the top of your bread It also gives you those at the top, which is my favorite part. We just updated our bread lame testing and have a couple exciting new winners. The first is the Baker of Seville. It's our overall winner, and we also like the No, I missed the word didn't I? I will get it without looking. My bread journey, huh? Wild Monkey UFO Bread Journey, so look at this beautiful I feel like I'm gonna open a using this. You turn it, release the blade, turn it back to tighten. Do not cut a finger off, Hannah please. No shedding blood. This is all tightened up. This is firmly in place and this was best for intricate scoring because more closely and get that and we really noticed a difference. This wasn't our overall winner, 'cause as you can see it's a little dicey. You are handling the than on other models. There's just a screw in the center, and you're just pushing this in and out. Now I'm gonna seal it back up like that. So we found a few things were really key for a good bread lame. First and foremost, we really preferred models and detach the blades. These are sharp. We don't wanna cut ourselves. You do need to change blades so this had to be really Second of all, we really liked blades that right here. Not all lames had that. Sometimes it was just one. If it's one, you're gonna be rotating that blade more frequently. This gave you two different options. You can use both sides then you can mess around We also liked that this is, is slightly curved. There are curved lames. There are straight lames. There are benefits to each. This allows you to use curved or straight. It actually can change which we love. Some folks really like a You can get that angle, get Straight lames can be because they're straighter. You're not working Another thing we really to grip the lame a When you're scoring, you're often going in You're doing different maneuvers. Being able to hold the lame a bunch of different ways made it more comfortable and we could actually get in Let's take a look at a finished loaf. I have this gorgeous one right here. Look how beautiful this is. Now I did this, not our It's decorative, it's and that's all thanks to a good lame. All right, so next up is soft coolers. Now this was a personal quest for me, because a couple years ago and while it looks gorgeous that thing is so heavy, like you will not see to a beach anytime soon. So recently on the heels like Yeti have come more so I had to know, is there a way to get or good enough ice retention, So we tested soft coolers with our results because our winner here, the Engel H20 22 quart soft This actually kept ice for three days. So the Engle is not cheap, unfortunately, you do pay for that performance. We had a best buy option from Coleman, (buzzer buzzes) and they just discontinued it at the scourge of the equipment tester, but we are on it testing a new model, so stay tuned for our So the most important does it keep stuff cold? When you're talking about for example, the thickness, is really important. With the soft sided coolers as much. We found the most important called closed-cell foam insulation. That's when gas is forced into foam, creating these isolated air of heat, keeping the This is actually very so successful compared to its competitors. When we compared a square of it was actually less dense. It had more air in it, which might seem counterintuitive, but air, it actually creates so the more air locked in that foam, the colder the contents One really important This was not the case Oh, look at that, just like butter. Sometimes they were really stiff or hard. We were wrenching them open. You don't want that. You don't wanna be You want your cooler to be your friend, so smooth zippers were key. Another thing you'll We really preferred a box shape cooler as opposed to the more classic tote shape. On a tote cooler, you're losing the top to the You just get much more space that way. Some of them are really If you pack these up, they so having lots of especially these side ones and tight to your body really This is one of my favorite Like I said, my Yeti is now my footrest, and this is what I'm taking to the beach. If you're not getting enough a countertop ice maker and this was another one of my favorite things we tested recently. They work much the same A compressor filled with which freezes water into depending on the machine. You fill a tank, some of these had water some of them were internal. You fill them up with water They have sensors so when they will start to make more ice. These are not intended The ice will actually start to melt, and they will take the melt but if you want to keep the ice coming, you actually wanna take the ice out, and store it in your freezer. So we tested all different models, and this model by Igloo A couple different factors went into making a good ice machine, and they were not all good. First of all, this one and it has this nice carrying handle. You're adding a big so you wanna make it This was incredibly producing just about a which is really good compared It also turned out its first so it was fast as well. Not all of the machines Some of them took forever, so if you're trying to if you forget to do machine's got you covered. Eight minutes, you'll start We also really appreciated that this machine could make. It's also one of the only models with a self-cleaning function, which really helps with descaling. You really don't want You want it to be easy to use. You're adding a machine It also had really easy We knew exactly what it was doing. To get this started today, all I did was pour two poured it right in here. Close this up. I selected small ice. You can see right in here. This is the small ice shape. These are the hollow bullet and it was so easy to use. That was it, literally filled and it started. Within eight minutes, I could hear the ice starting to fall. We also tested and loved which is very expensive. It makes that tiny little nugget ice. The thing is fantastic, but it is pricey. Not everybody's gonna want that model. It definitely lived up to its name, but the Igloo did a fantastic So we found brand really mattered here. Some of these were really They didn't keep the ice well. None of these will keep ice indefinitely, but some of these, the which just was not very useful. Some of them didn't have the output, they weren't producing enough ice. A lot of them were huge, so bulky. They were just not practical If your freezer doesn't make enough ice, and you don't have a freezer, a countertop ice maker might This is one of my favorite All right, so like Lisa, I had a couple pieces of about this year, and one of So many people were to test the Hexclad non-stick skillet, and I understand why. This thing was everywhere. Endorsed by celebrity Chef Gordon Ramsey in every other one of my Instagram ads, especially now that I've said it out loud, so we totally get why y'all We put it to the test in of our non-stick skillets. We always start with a 50 eggs right in a row in a dry skillet. We do a bunch of other like stir fries, frittatas. We cut in these. We're really hard on them, and at the end we do that is if the pan makes it that far. This one my friends did and that's because this See these hexagons in here? What Hexclad does is they through in this hexagon pattern, so it's got non-stick and then through the non-stick, and this is what makes it not non-stick. This is what made it cling This baby did not make it It was sticking right away. The performance was shockingly bad. I was like, &quot;This cannot be true.&quot; Got a second copy of the pan. Performed the same exact way, You are buying a non-stick If you want a regular pan. You want a naturally non-stick If you're gonna go for non-stick, we recommend you stick Still the best on the market. It's a lot lighter. This Hexclad pan was also really heavy, which makes it hard to do the tossy toss, which I love to do. The Oxo, wonderful shape, on this surface. So let me show you what I mean. This is our industry standard test. No fat in the pan. Crack the egg right in. (egg cracks) When we're testing, we use a surface probe thermometer to make sure every single at the exact same temperature. All right, try to flip this bad boy. I'm gonna try to, I'm giving it. I'm trying to help this guy out. We never want a pan to fail. We want products to succeed. My friend here is beyond, beyond hope. Ugh, the carnage. It's a blood bath. It's a blood bath, folks. Look at that. Again, the Oxo literally No problem. This thing just is not I imagine they added these for durability, right? It's supporting the non-stick. Non-stick is notably fallible. This is why we actually don't on a non-stick pan. Non-stick is a coating of It can actually off gas. You can scrape it off. There are all different things of a non-stick pan, so I understand what they were doing here. They're trying to reinforce By doing so, they ruined the non-stick, thus making the entire pan pointless. Stick with the Oxo. Hexclad, didn't like it. With Lisa's picks and my picks, you've got a head start might wanna get or not get - For more information about today, check out the links below, or go to americastestkitchen.com. - What are you most excited What did we miss? Let us know in the comments. Make sure to like this video, and hit that subscribe button so you never miss an episode. (upbeat music)