If a child is abused, Sarah Kolzer is one of the first to look at it, she works in the Frankfurt forensic medicine team. This was a four-year-old boy who was introduced to the clinic by his mother. The boy was alone with her partner. She had been shopping. When she came back, the boy had these injuries. SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk In forensic medicine, we speak of a formed injury, that is, what allows conclusions to be drawn about a hand. Here we have another hematoma in the front of the forehead, which was also to be seen in connection with this. And there's another hematoma on the left ear. There was the question of child abuse. In the end, at least historically, the case was relatively clear. The partner also said that he slapped the boy, quote. That's why the mother contacted the clinic immediately afterwards. And then there was a report from us via the youth welfare office. Domestic violence in families has increased during the pandemic . Sarah Kolzer, herself a mother, examines suspicious injuries in children several times a week. It's true that you have to bring this professionalism with you and also need this emotional distance in order to be neutral as an expert. Of course there are cases that sometimes go a little closer than you actually want. But professionalism must never suffer as a result. In this respect, it is also the case that we have a good exchange in the team. The Wiesbaden Youth Welfare Office has just received a report of child endangerment. It's about a five-year-old girl. The father seems mentally unstable. The day- care center had just called me, the adjustment went well so far. And that's what they wanted to tell me. But this morning there was probably an incident that Mr. N. appeared in kindergarten quite upset and told confused stories. There were probably two people in front of the door who belong to an organization. His wife is involved and has the option to change identities, get passports and make the child disappear at any time. He doesn't know what to do now. He was slurring very loudly, which suggests that he is again under the influence of drugs. He says of himself that he uses cannabis. He also needs help, regardless of what's going on with mother and child. Day care centers and schools were closed for weeks during the pandemic. Now they report back if they notice something. Vivia Osterhoff is a social worker. If daycare centers and schools report it, they and their colleagues, children and young people, can better protect themselves. In the case of the five-year-old girl, they decide to make a home visit immediately. Basically, it's always like a surprise egg when you come to them. You just don't know what they're up to right now. I've seen everything from home visits. From friendly and approachable to angry. Although that can fluctuate quickly. When it comes to the child, people get uncomfortable. That is also clear. It's not about just any piece of furniture, it's about the most important thing you have. I'm also curious to see what condition he is in now, because the kindergarten also said that they had the feeling that he had taken some drugs this morning. Was it more often that he used drugs or alcohol? They both have a past with the thing. Vivian Osterhoff and Stefanie Bergmann always make home visits in pairs. Also for security reasons. Of course there are no film recordings. In the first year of the pandemic, 2020, German youth welfare offices received a total of 60,551 reports of child welfare hazards. After a good hour they got a picture of the situation. I found there was a crackle. The mother later joined the conversation and started screaming. And the two really fell for each other. They got up. There was real action, let me say. Most of the time this energy only goes against each other and not against us at all. Here, too, it is important for the two of you to maintain eye contact and to say up to what point do we let them deal with the argument now, or at what point do we have to intervene. This is much easier with two people than doing it alone. The child stays with the family for the time being. You want to keep in touch. You discuss it in the team, our ideas and how we proceed. Then I'll come in again after my appointment and then we'll take a look. Something definitely has to happen. Yes, in any case. It won't be two days before they have to intervene again. Sarah Kolzer is on call today in the University Clinic's forensic medicine department in Frankfurt. As soon as there is a suspicion of child abuse, she is called. At nine o'clock we now have an examination in the child protection ambulance of a nine-year-old boy who was taken into care by the youth welfare office. He is said to have a lot of hematomas on his body. In the child protection ambulance there will be a meeting with the employee from the youth welfare office and with the facility where the boy is currently living. After the interview, the physical examination takes place, where photos are taken. In this case, it is now also the case that a hair sample should be taken from the boy. Since there is a suspected substance abuse by the parents in the room. In this case, she must clarify whether the boy has ingested substances that are not appropriate to his age. The examination is to take place in the nearby child protection outpatient clinic of the university clinic. It varies, but it is the case that several cases per week are examined in the child protection clinic on average. It can be two. But it can also be ten. She always has to be prepared for anything. The situation is extremely stressful for everyone anyway, including the children. In this respect, it is quite possible that the children are scared and need to be well looked after. To protect the child's identity , the camera stays out here as well. A total of 4,918 children and young people were abused in Germany in the first year of the pandemic, 2020. 10 percent more than in the previous year. The examination of the 9-year-old boy was completed after 3 hours. There were some minor, non-specific injuries, most of which had healed. Just an injury that seems a bit suspicious. It's often the case that we talk to colleagues about such injuries if you can't quite classify them at first. Which also has to correlate with what the boy says about how the injury came about. The boy stated that he suffered the injuries from falling on a rock. From the appearance of the injuries, this is incomprehensible. There will be further investigations. Then a report for the youth welfare office. The boy remains in care for the time being. Around 45,400 children and young people were taken into care in Germany in 2020. Main cause: The parents were overwhelmed. During the pandemic, it was particularly difficult for the social worker Vivian Osterhoff to keep in touch with the families. Today she can finally meet a 19-year-old girl who has experienced bad things in her family. This is a normal help plan conversation. The young person is housed as a full in-patient in a residential group and is doing a social-pedagogically accompanied training. We have previously agreed on goals that are to be worked out. So it's quite normal that every six months at the latest, when the schedule allows, we have a conversation together and see how things are going. Vivian Osterhoff has been looking after the girl for three and a half years. She supported it in getting out of the family. How was your day at school? - Pretty good actually. First we had three hours free. Unfortunately, I'm too early because I didn't realize it until later. And yes. Exactly, you also asked for the appointment, simply to find a good conclusion for yourself. And a reboot. - Yes. Have you ever thought about how you want to start? Would you like to see what used to be, how is it today? We can actually start from earlier to now. Yes, okay. - That's how we always did it. We were hit kids. We were beaten by our father. Most of the time I was hit with objects. My brother with fists because he could defend himself, I couldn't. At some point, when you've been hit, you accept it at some point. Then at some point you ignore it, including the pain. Sure, you cry under the covers or something. But on the outside you don't show any weaknesses or anything, just strength. And that's why I think it's good that I took my decision into my own hands to say: &quot;It's over, I'm going now.&quot; Even if it was difficult for me. When she was 12 years old, her father died as a result of alcohol and drug use. The mother found a new partner. The stepfather moved in soon after. Then when I turned 16 ... Growing up as a woman at some point, when my mother wasn't there he said that he wanted pictures of me. And so I just asked, which pictures? Yes, a bit of lingerie, a bit more chic, maybe without anything at all. So without clothes? Yes, and he would just take a picture of it. And he would choose the pose too. He also showed me some pictures. It was kind of like being a prostitute. So I said I'm not a slut, I feel dirty. You're my mother's friend, I find that disgusting. You've been able to resist it all along, haven't you? No pictures were taken. - Nope. Then at some point I was like, &quot;No&quot; all the time. said. I kept running to my mother and told her directly what he wanted from me. But she didn't believe it. There are simply limits that have to be adhered to, and you said them clearly, they weren't noticed. Yes, and then he said, &quot;No, that's not true!&quot; &quot;I love her like my own daughter&quot; and all. You have to do that first, to differentiate yourself from the fact that you have said no so often, also shows that you manage to differentiate yourself from others. It's also really brave that you made it at all and then it was also brave to say you don't want to go home. Then it was good that we were there. That we said we'd look for something for you where you could stay first and then we'd take a look. And then it developed that it has remained permanent. At the age of 16 she broke off all contact with her family. She moved into a residential group with social pedagogic support. After therapy she is now in training. Yes, and it's going really well, isn't it? - Yes. We had the help plan discussion and everyone only praised it in the highest tones. School is going, practical work is going on. You can be really proud of yourself there. How nice! You've really made a great development there. Yes, I'm very happy about that too. * Music * Sarah Kolzer is on duty in the section room today. In 2020, in the first year of the pandemic, a total of 152 children and young people died violently. 36 percent more than in the previous year. male infant. Both thighs and lower legs without any visible injuries. Another plastic bracelet with the personal details of the deceased child around the right ankle . The fact is that the children, or especially very small children or infants, should be autopsied as soon as possible because the internal organs and especially the brain soften very quickly after death and there is a risk of losing findings. In this respect, a timely autopsy is always desirable for such small children. I always say that children are not small adults, but there are certain places where we don't look at the adults. For example, the frenulum of the tongue. For example, if a child is fed with a spoon and the spoon is pushed into the mouth, the frenulum under the tongue can sometimes tear. This is something we don't examine in adults, for example, but we do in children. Today they dissect a fetus. The unborn child died in a traffic accident in the womb. * Music * If there are fatalities as a result of an accident, in that case it is the unborn child or later the newborn of the woman. That it is fundamentally about the exclusion of third-party negligence. To clarify the question of what then led to the death of the child. Small tweezers please, small at the front. Stefanie Plentzig has already dissected a number of children who died as a result of abuse. I was still an assistant doctor back then, and we did an autopsy on a badly abused child. The child was shaken and hit his head against solid ground. Against what, we can't say exactly. And that had numerous bite injuries. I had seen that before while still alive as part of the clinical, forensic medical examination. However, she later died from serious injuries. Shaking trauma is the most common non-natural cause of death in infants. In early 2021, Sarah Kolzer autopsied a child for the first time who died violently. She may only speak about this case once she has presented her report in the ongoing criminal proceedings. A young father is charged with manslaughter. At the youth welfare office in Wiesbaden , Vivian Osterhoff has another help plan discussion. Today with a mother whom she has not been able to meet in person for a long time. The single mother has problems with her daughter. We were on the phone when you reported that things are a bit difficult at home again. There are currently arguments at school, difficulties overall, so that she is now reluctant to go to school. How is this currently noticeable at home, the situation at school? She then tends to act out her anger by becoming aggressive or no longer having her feelings under control. The daughter became so aggressive that she hit her mother. Now the woman is afraid that this will happen again. At that time the situation was such that the situation at home also escalated. It was like dynamite, no matter what you said, it didn't matter anymore. A lot just broke. So she just threw things away. With china, plates, bowls. What she got hold of. She couldn't control herself anymore. From a certain point onwards, your daughter was placed outside of you for a short time , wasn't it? But that has nothing to do with the fact that I'm too stupid to raise a child. The point was that it just didn't work anymore. Was that a relief at first or what was it like? I first moment it was just terrible. She wasn't there anymore, but it was my decision. I wasn't forced to do it by the youth welfare office or anything. No, it just didn't work anymore. I knew that. But the first week I just cried. But I never let her down. No matter what crap, and she really screwed up. After some time, the daughter was able to return home. Now the situation threatens to escalate again. Aggressiveness of children towards their parents. Such cases increased during the pandemic. We are sometimes a bit of a mediator and we always have contacts, including with school social workers. The school is also responsible. I wasn't there in those situations. That's difficult for me to judge. If we still have an open conversation: Our support is to convey that we too can get an idea of the school situation. Perhaps the teachers have already developed ideas. She will make an appointment with the school social worker. Sarah Kolzer is still dealing with the case of the dead baby. Today she has an appointment with her institute director, Prof. Marcel Verhoff. Hello boss! Soon she will have to present her report in court. I wanted to go over the style of the supplementary report for ... Yes, yes. Did you announce. - Exactly, that's what I announced. I have already done some literature research. But now we have the next question: Can these injuries, which we have found, come from another event? So it may be that the child has just suffered injuries , for example through an accident, but perhaps also through a strong grip, before the actual event that caused the death. We are in criminal law and that always means that the accused is in doubt. Or, conversely, of course we want to have a very high probability, we have to have it. Because you don't want to condemn parents for any killing who didn't do it and even worse, who then lose their child in an accident and are therefore still convicted. Vivian Osterhoff is on duty today for the Wiesbaden child protection hotline. Osterhoff from the district social work in Wiesbaden. Exactly, then tell me briefly what it's about. The first report this morning came from the police: It was about the family they visited just two days ago. The father's mental state has deteriorated. Two colleagues are already on their way. Okay, now I have to sort myself out. Hi, we're back. - Hi, and? Oh my goodness, yes. So basically confirmed. That was now so acute on site that we really decided to take him into care. Both parents now know about it and have taken it up accordingly. The situation in the family with the mentally unstable father deteriorated overnight. You decide: Both parents cannot take good enough care of the child at the moment. The girl is in danger. Also because of the conspiracy theories and the persecution mania. So it's better if it goes to the family court and we then clarify how to proceed and also what the ability to bring up is concerned. We're moving within a safe framework. Look how it was again, on Wednesday, we're going out. I'll say that gut feeling says there's more to come. And it was the same with the risk assessment, you stand there and have a stomach ache because you think ... But it's not enough at the moment. I didn't think it would happen so quickly, but in the end... Well, look how quickly that can tip over again. I am glad that the child is now protected. Sarah Kolzer will present her forensic medical report in court today. For months she has been dealing with the case of the nine-week-old baby who died in early 2021. * Music * This is a court hearing of a young man accused of killing his child. The fact is that extensive examinations were carried out in advance by forensic medicine. Due to the pandemic, the case is being heard in a provisional branch of the Wiesbaden district court. The public prosecutor accuses the young father of severely abusing and suffocating the baby. Sarah Kolzer will soon present her report. It remains exciting to clarify whether this all works with the technology. I've got some jitters about that. Mrs B., that's the midwife. - That's the midwife, right. Mother, grandparents and friends have already testified. The baby cried a lot, the young parents seemed overwhelmed. Nobody, however, claims to have noticed any serious injuries. Sarah Kolzer's findings should help to find out the truth. Good morning, have a seat. The forensic doctor's lecture lasted two and a half hours. Now everyone knows the extent of the injuries. The baby had numerous old and new broken ribs, skin injuries on the neck, bruises on the forehead, nose and cheek. She shows how the baby could have been mistreated with a doll. The child is like this, or must have been held like this, in order to be able to produce this kind of rib fracture at all. And that in this specific case there were repeated rib fractures. Rib fractures that occurred at different times, both recent and healing. This can be illustrated much better with such a dummy doll. If one speaks of the fact that the mouth and nose were held shut by force, for example, that as an adult with this kind of influence one is able to press one's mouth and nose closed by grasping one's hands or fingers . That could also explain, for example, that we have injuries here in the rear ear region or in the neck, which could have been caused by fingernails, for example. That suggests it wasn't a one-off squeeze. But that it speaks more to the fact that there were different actions. The father testified that he only briefly held his hand over the child's nose and mouth. If convicted of manslaughter , you could face several years in prison. Sarah Kolzer will not be present at the verdict. I have been dealing with the case for many months as part of the preparation of the expert opinion. That's why today is for me, that I can say: There's a certain relief and then I can do it , you learn that over time and you'll bring it with you in the subject. It's like you can manage the distance. When I come home, there are two little children waiting for me who need me. What was at work is then a thing of the past. Sure, I had to let it sink in too. Now it's the court's turn. Without the pandemic, would the baby have stood a chance? Too many around looked the other way. The youth welfare offices are now on the spot more quickly: a few days ago, the Wiesbaden social workers took care of a four-month-old baby. Now they have found a solution for the child and the overwhelmed mother . In the &quot;Nest&quot;, a facility for mother and child. We then wanted to briefly discuss how the admission is going, when the little one can be admitted? Exactly, we have had quite a lot of contact with the parents in the last week and have organized a lot. We now have a pediatrician appointment for a check-up at eleven. In the best-case scenario, we would record the two here afterwards. We have prepared the room, that's all arranged so far. Now I'm actually here for the first time today, maybe you can tell us how you work? It's a lot about handling the baby, about recognizing needs, so that we see where mom is at. Then we'll see to what extent we involve dad. But our focus is on the mother as the main provider. After four months we would make a recommendation as to the direction in which the whole thing is going. Can we manage to enable the mother to go home with the child in a mother-child facility or with a family helper? Then we'll have to see what else comes up. The room for the little one is already prepared. The mother can be here during the day and can learn to take care of her child. Great. - OK. Of course she is also happy to see her son more again and to be able to be here with him. I agree. - That's nice. * Baby is crying. **Music* Copyright subtitles: hr 2021