- I spent over $3,000 on All of the items I were purchased directly from, or at least advertised directly on xbox.com, right? So this is all of their very, very extensive list of accessories. And I'm gonna start out with something that's a little bit dumb, which is this. The Xbox rechargeable Now you may look at this and say, &quot;Hey Austin, it's 2024. My PS3 had a rechargeable And to that, I would say, &quot;Yeah, it did, didn't it?&quot; But instead, I had the to spend 24.99 plus tax to get a rechargeable So to make this work, it is very simple. You take these ah, (tongue blargs) Gross, who wants to use those? Instead, I'm use my neat little Xbox battery thingy right here. And because this didn't come in the box, sorry, I didn't mean to hit you (staff laughing) since that didn't come in the box, I also have a handy 9-foot, count it, 9-foot USB-C cable. As you can see, I am roughly 1 1/2 of these cables tall. It's not enough to just the way that Phil Spencer intended. There's a more budget-friendly way to get more out of your controller. These are performance thumb sticks to upgrade your precision, There you go, there's some bonus content for your weapon charm. Free for the first person who redeems it. So if you too would like to improve your thumb stick capabilities, well for the low, low price of $20, Captain Price will personally help you be better at Call of Duty. Can I direct your attention to a very concerning statistic? This copy of Forza Motorsport comes in at a hefty 150.6 gigabytes. Do you know what that is? It's a lot of (quack) space. This only has a mere one And so therefore, by installing Forza and, oh, I don't know, Modern Warfare 3, your SSD's almost full, but it's not a lot of space, which is why the kind folks at Xbox have a wide accoutrement of different peripherals, accessories, and specifically storage That's what they call them. Don't look it up. Including this. (control crashes) The Xbox approved, designed for WD Black C50 expansion card. How much did I pay for this one terabyte? Because I know they've come down in price, but this was still - [Alex] Yeah, that one was $150. - I think it was 150 bucks on sale, whereas you could easily get a probably two terabyte SSD for the PS5 at that same kind of price. Ah, the good thing is this Boy, that was a really bad noise. All you do is just line it up with the expansion module and you press it in. And that should be literally be it. So you see here that I and then 600 gigs after Forza, but I have 920 gigabytes And it really is that simple. But I hear you asking &quot;Two terabytes? (scoffs) What are we Amish?&quot; So instead, let's expand I know it's a joke. 'cause I don't think most Amish people care about two terabytes. I think that's probably fine, honestly, May I introduce the WD Black D10, a 12... Yep. Count 'em. Not one, not two, not three, not four, not five, not six, not seven, not eight, not nine, not 10, not 11, Wow. Boy, that's... - [Alex] It's funny. It looks just like the small one. - Oh, I shouldn't have done that. Whatever. (staff laughing) Well, there are a lot of jokes that I can make at this point, and I would like to just let you know that I'm gonna be the adult in the room and I'm not gonna make any of the sus things that have come to mind as I look at these two. - [Alex] Wow. So size doesn't matter. - You know what? I'm glad So it doesn't count. And technically this is 12 times bigger. - [Alex] Mm. - Now hold on a second. It's 10.9 terabytes. (playful music) The box said 12 and I got 10.9. Hmm, that's sus. Also, I have a code. Does anyone want a month There you go. Now it's gone. With 14 terabytes of storage, our newly upgraded controller The next step is to which is why we have purchased the official Xbox Wireless headset. Now this is actually all joking aside, a very solid headset. This thing only costs you a 100 bucks. Sometimes it's on sale. I briefly used this in the past, and you're getting a So of course it is wireless. You can also use it via Bluetooth. So you could pair it with your phone or whatever the case is. It has a decent mic. Look, honestly, there's a lot going for this thing for $100. That's the first time I've seen that. It's... (crystal crashing) So we've got ourselves, which comes with its These things are relatively comfortable. And they also have the, If I remember right, one side controls the volume of the game and the other controls your actual, like, party chat volume. So I have actually a decent So I can change my EQ, auto mute, I can change the actual mic light itself. So when it comes to the headset, I actually think this is You can certainly spend and get stuff that has or certainly has like But, like, I would argue for the vast majority of people. Now, what does make a difference is the actual controller. Now, I will say that I've of the Xbox One controller Like, these are solid, good controllers. They're not as good as the The level of like feedback that you get from a DualDense is next level. But when it comes to a racing game, this is perfectly serviceable. And having the additional height on the stick gives me a But as we recently learned, I am much faster not on a controller. Oh no, I'm faster with a wheel and I'm way slower on (car engines roaring) That was good. That was good. I like that. I like that. The tail does not want to stay tight. That's fine. Hard brake. Down shift to four. But, while sadly, Microsoft don't sell a multiple thousand dollar from Micro Center, what they do sell is... It's over here. One minute, I gotta... No, no, don't show it. No, don't show it. I'm gonna... Just stay over there for a second and pretend that I'm Okay, ready? All right. We're gonna just... You can cut all that stuff out, okay. So, all right. Okay. Yeah. All right. Which is why we have this! The Thrustmaster T248. Now this is a, I would say So why don't we try to hook and I'll try Forza the way With a wheel and some So with our Thrustmaster T248 connected, I've got my force feedback wheel, my pedals down here. Let's give this a try. So for context, this costs $400. Now that is in the, I would say mid range of sort of racing wheels. You can certainly get cheaper stuff, but we've got force feedback. We have, I would say a pretty And wow, that's a lot of It just sort of vibrates in my hand. Also, in case it looks weird, I've got a second monitor This is for you. So one of the nice things about this wheel is that I actually do that gives me some information. Now, it's not massively useful because I'm gonna wanna actually, like, take my eyes off the road, but I can see my revs and I can also see which gear I'm in. So as I shift, I can see that live. So especially if you're not you do need to get a little bit used to it because it's almost like sort of artificially over boosted compared to what you're probably With this, like, if I get the wheel's gonna try to which is nice because that's But you have to be a little bit careful. Why are they passing me? Wait, what's going on!? Why's everyone passing me!? Hey, I think we've got all we need to see from our racing setup. Let's take a closer look of Xbox accessories that exist out there. 'Cause believe me when I say some of the other stuff anyone want toast? - [Alex] What? - Now we have this little called Mystery Tech, where I the Xbox Series S toaster now for what, 40 bucks or whatever? If you actually could find they sold out very quickly. This thing is actually really neat. Do anyone like some toast? Because I can do two pieces at once with this bad boy, but you've never seen So the nice thing about this toaster, if I could be a Toast is that not only does it just like a real Xbox Series S, but on top of that, it has a It says, I have 146 seconds to wait. So the next time you don't wanna get jump scared by your toaster, it'll tell you exactly how many seconds before it is the big pow. While we wait for our toast, let me tell you a little If you're not familiar, the Xbox lineup was immediately split in two On the high end, there's very competent console with the PlayStation 5. But for the all digital cheaper model, we've got the Series S, which retails for $300, routinely goes And in my opinion, is a terrific console for more casual gamers. And I don't say that with shade. Like, lots of us would that could still play all the same games. I mean, admittedly, so you will need to rely on downloading stuff usually through Game Pass, but you get a small cheap console, which just simply doesn't exist anymore. Now I will say that there of the Xbox Series S to consider, which is the one terabyte. Now, this one is a little because this is instead of being 300 bucks or like 250 on sale, this Now it does come in Robot Black, which I think is a very nice colorway, and it does have significantly So we're talking a one compared to five 12 on It is very small. (toast bops) Oh. I had a timer and I still got scared! I peed a little bit. Anyone want some toast? - [Alex] Whoa, that looks cool. - It's pretty cool, right? Again, I already did this If you're a longtime thank you very much. And if you're not, what are you doing? You are missing out on Toast Review. Little dry, probably could have One of my favorite Series S So we took a look at this back when it was still during crowdfunding. It's actually now been a And the way this works is it attaches to the back of the Series S, so you have still the pass through for your SSD as well as You don't have to plug in HDMI, you don't have to plug in an additional bit of power or whatever. And the cool thing about is that a nice 1080p display, but when you close it, it actually puts the Xbox to sleep. Now it's not a battery powered unit, so you still need to actually have this to plug into power, but it's actually a really nice way to play the Series S on the go if you don't want a gaming laptop. So while I wait for a let me show you some more, accoutrement, some some beautiful, wonderful add-ons to make your Series S cost a So starting out with, we have So this, I'm gonna let This is my wife's controller, I stole it for the video. So (shushing). So this, my friends, is Design Lab controllers. Now there is a huge amount of customization that you can do here. So this is a little bit So it is essentially just blue and black, but you can customize, I mean, you can go through the There's like pages and And what I like about it is it's actually not that expensive. I mean, yes, the Elite Series 2, they started like 120, and you can add on all the bits and bobs. But to actually do the it's only like an extra like 10 to 20 bucks based on which Xbox controller we wanna do it on. Another option for your is the Xbox Adaptive controller. Now this is a controller that's been out for a little while now. I believe it retails for about $100. And the idea here is that it is a immensely customizable experience. So it looks like a DJ pad or something. But you have an absolutely huge variety of different ways that you can map this. Do we not have the accessories so you can plug them in to the adaptive controller? Do we have our adaptive controller without the thing that makes it work? Ha! I would love to show and I forgot that it didn't come with any of them at all. There is one additional way to control your Xbox, not with a regular controller or a pro controller or a wheel or a flight stick or a series that you forgot to get the rest of. Oh no, there is a dedicated specifically designed for Xbox. This is the Razer turret. How much did I pay for the Razer Turret? - [Alex] $250. - [Ken] What!? - [Austin] So if you wanna double the price of your Xbox Series S, okay, it's expensive and it's old. - [Ken] It's the same price as the Series S on a good day. - I... - [Alex] Look, it's a small - The noobs need to be pwned. If they don't get pwned, they'll So inside the box, we've got ourselves a keyboard and a mouse So it does use 2.4, which means that we're gonna have to on our Series S because we're So we're just gonna plug So the way this works yeah, I remember that. It is clicky as hell, which is fine, but it's, it doesn't I'll say that this felt But to take off this huge plastic thing you can pull out... Wow, wow. Whoa, holy! (sniffing) I might have a Prop 65 (staff laughing) Oh, Jesus. So what you do is when you're ready, you deploy and then you take your mouse and you go. (mouse crashes) Sorry, you take your mouse, and... (mouse crashes) - [Ken] I don't think it works the way you think it does. - One moment, please. You just... It's lightly magnetized. See, look, it's lightly magnetized. - [Ken] Yeah. - See? I was going to show you what this beautiful setup looks like, but I now have 15 more gigabytes left on my Fortnite download for quite a while. So I'll see you tomorrow to of this setup in all of its glory. And I'm gonna hope that my aim assist 'cause I need And so with many, many gigabytes of Fortnite downloads complete, let us try first of all So just as a heads up, the screen looks like It actually looks totally It's just the way that the So I would say most Xbox but Fortnite is one of the games that does support, not only And I also have still like my So we are now in Fortnite and boy, oh boy, this feels like a PC. And to be clear, you can with any Xbox and you It works on Xbox One, Now, the only downsides I is that the keyboard especially considering that you can get much better keyboards these days, and also the and it's certainly much for actually controlling a it's more precise because it is magnetized to this platform here, like, it doesn't fly. It doesn't glide super smoothly. It's probably not a coincidence that Razer made one version of this for the Xbox One, several years ago, and I've never really updated since. Oh, wait, I actually didn't realize So look, I'm moving around then I switch over to controller. Oh! So you can seamlessly Well, what a great segue for me to use the Elite Series 2 controller. Wow, that is so much slower It's almost like the I have to inform you that there was one additional piece that I saw, and I could not say no to. The Razer Edge. This is a bizarre little handheld console. It is really, really weird. Let me walk you through it. So bottom line, it runs Android, but the thing is, it's because you can actually take it off. You got the tablet and it comes with the Razer Kishi V2 Pro controller. Now, the thing that's is that you can just take this and attach this to your smartphone. And I would kind of argue this is almost more useful But lemme put them together and show you because it's neat, it's not for everyone as most things in this video are. But it is actually a So the actual tablet itself It's running a Snapdragon as well as eight gigabytes of ram, which you can think of as like But importantly because it has a fairly decent cooling solution. Let's start by jumping I would just tell you right now, there's significant latency here. I know that a little bit for a lot of people. And like I'm not sitting here saying like, &quot;This is impossible to play&quot; But it's a bad enough experience that I wouldn't want to play. So here, I'm gonna hit the brake button. Watch me, watch me hit the button. Ready, set. How long was that? That was like a half a second of latency, like it is bordering on unplayable. So this setup, which is the Razer Edge, the tablet, the whole Android dude as well as the controller will run Now, that's a lot of money, and if you want 5G, it goes up to $600. Although here in the US, if you get through Verizon, they do have some incentives. But even just taking this a 400 console, I like the fact that it's so small, but the problem is that as a damn Steam Deck. And while the Steam Deck is way bigger, it is massively more powerful and it has a lot more flexibility in what you can do with it. A lot of my complaints with this are the same as Xbox Cloud gaming. It's not for me, it's decent. But when I look at what Nvidia have been able to do with GeForce Now, that is actually an Xbox Cloud gaming in all, but the absolute best case Even when it's streaming video perfectly, it still has enough latency It's a tough sell because you got a phone that's probably the exact same thing. So when you look at this entire setup, what you'll see is that it is an eclectic mix of hardware and I think it does a good job of showing the difference and the Xbox sides of the fence. PlayStation is a little bit There's certainly some third party stuff, but they try to sell you as much first party stuff as possible. Microsoft, I think will put pretty much anything that is vaguely green on xbox.com as I have learned today. But thank you very much Subscribe to the channel and And stay tuned. I'm about to build my which is going to be a Switch OLED and my hopes and dreams.