Hello! My name is Vantus Hrenzerden and I'm a hero! I'm a pilot of the Swedish Air Force, in 1997 I carried out a special operation details of which, and remained under the stamp &quot;Secret.&quot; In the course of fierce battles with the enemy squadron, my plane was shot down and I had to catapult. I was resting in the forests in the territory of a potential enemy and for a week struggled to survive in the wild. I survived, thanks to the knife I had with me. This is a story about the hero! About me! And about the survival knife of the Swedish pilots Falknain F1 Model Fallkniven &quot;F1&quot; since 1995 officially acquired the status of a knife for the survival of the Air Force of Sweden. &quot;This knife sets new world standards. When creating F1, the most important factors were taken into account: ergonomics, structural strength, usability, attractive appearance and cost. &quot; The Fallkniven F1 knife is included in the portable emergency stock kit of every Swedish Air Force fighter pilot. For civilians, the F1 knife is positioned by Fallkniven AB as a knife for hunting and tourism. In the training, I was the best! And when all the other pilots were given the survival knife of Falknaiven F1, my commander said, &quot;We did not expect Vantus that you would ever fly, so we did not buy a knife for you.&quot; And instead of a modern helmet for flights to the stratosphere, he gave me an old decommissioned headset, which was lost in the warehouse since the Second World War. But I knew this was another test. After all, the best, do not need cool and good equipment. We are the best, simply because, we are the best! But I could not afford to put the job in jeopardy, therefore, I went to the site of the largest knife shop in Europe - Lamnia And having broken his piggy bank, I ordered a Falknaiven F1 knife from the steel of 3G! At that time I did not have a couple of crowns, and as the best pilot of the Swedish Air Force, the guys from Lamnia made me ... free shipping. And the missing pair of crowns, I pulled off the trash tray in our dining room. And for such a generous gesture from Lamnia, I'll leave a link to them in the description for this video. I had one combat sortie to become a hero. It fell on 1997, at that time our squad was supplied with the best Swedish JAS 39 Gripen aircraft, but since the level of my professionalism was higher than that of my fellow soldiers, I got an old, decommissioned helical aircraft, the Russians called it &quot;corn cob&quot; I called him &quot;carrying death,&quot; and went to his first combat mission! In a fierce battle with three modern enemy fighters, my plane was damaged, and I had to catapult. It was very scary to catapult, so I just fainted, just in case. I woke up hanging upside down... Vantuz, mother fu*k! What a fu*k you hijacked the plane! We kicked you out of school three weeks ago! You never learned to check the amount of fuel before departure! The moron! Commander! I'm requesting evacuation, I'm in the enemy's territory, it's dangerous here! Debil, you are 200 meters from the airport! Better run until we find you! My parachute caught on branches of trees and already in the first seconds of arrival on a hostile territory, my survival knife came in handy! I easily got it out of its sheath and cut the parachute lines. I collapsed to the ground from a very serious half-meter height and fell asleep ... that is, I lost consciousness. I woke up from the fact that someone licks me. &quot;Oh yes Helga! Below, below ... Teeth, teeth ... &quot;, but it was a bear. It turns out to be a bearish taste, I'm really good, so a couple of days I had to live with a bear in his den. But since it was winter, I managed to apply my knowledge of survival quickly to lull his vigilance and after a couple of days, having smoked my last cigarette, the bear went to sleep. Getting out of sexual slavery, I began to survive! The Vantuz nits! What kind of fu*k do you do at the dacha! Commander? Commander! Commander? Friends! We had a lot of fun while filming this historical sketch. I hope that she cheered you and you and you support the channel with your likes, and if you have not already signed up, click the button down there and subscribe, we will be pleased :) Well, while we were shooting this funny story, in fact, we tested the knife quite seriously, it's just basically left behind the scenes. This is a great knife! So, if you want, we'll take the tests separately in the usual more serious version. Well, now let's talk a little more seriously about this truly legendary knife Falknaiven F1. And before we start, once again, many thanks to the store Lamnia, which provided us with a small financial support, and thanks to it we were able to implement all our ideas in today's Knife Story. They have on the site you can order almost any Falkniven, and if we talk about the F1, there are many different options, from different steels and in different designs. For example, I really like this kind of limit, but of course, a little less than this plane)) In general, in the description of the link, support. They probably have the most delicious prices and free shipping when ordering from 100 euros. When I started to prepare this video and dig in the history of creating this knife, I was surprised to find that at all, at all web sites, both Russian and English-speaking, the whole story of this Falka is limited to the fact that it was created for the Swedish Air Force in 1995 year as a survival knife. And that's all! This is a legend that no one else knows anything about! I thought it was wildly unfair, and I wrote a letter to Falknaiven, and asked me to tell me a real story about how this knife was created. And how did he become a legend? I did not know what they were going to say to me, what was my surprise when an answer came to me, and not from the red employee of this company, And from the founder and owner of the company Fallkniven Peter Hjortberger! We had a very good talk, and that's what he told me: This knife had a really long and interesting story. Peter started his business in 1984, but then he did not produce knives, but worked exclusively as a store. In the same year he introduced the first full-color knife catalog in Sweden, where many good knives from the USA, Europe and Japan were presented. The catalog very well spread out and Peter became a kind of knife-barreled gun baron in Sweden. His sales went uphill and everything was very good! In 1987, with Perer contacted from the Logistics Department of the Swedish Armed Forces, they were interested in the best survival knife for the Air Force pilots. The matter is that the Air Force was preparing to launch the modern expensive fighter JAS 39 Gripen, mentioned by our friend Vantuz, from the sketch in the first part of this video. And it was a really cool plane, the concept of which did not fit into the simple knives of Mora, which the pilots previously placed on their feet. In general, the Air Force needed a new, reliable and modern survival knife! Peter started looking for a decent knife. He ordered several different samples from the US, Europe and Japan, and proceeded to the tests. During which it was found out that none of the samples corresponded to the tasks set by the Air Force. They were too small, too large, poorly treated, which caused risks during use, too cold in the winter, too slippery when wet, and so on. Then Peter sat down and began to think what quality a knife needed a pilot who had to leave the plane. In general, at that time, the knives available for Swedish military were either very simple, like Mora whose price was $ 1 per knife, or they were various bayonet knives left from the time of the Second World War. Peter notes that at that time there was no Internet or e-mail, and all information about the knives was available only from special magazines, usually dedicated to hunting. And yet, the American knife culture gradually spread to Sweden, and a need arose for new forms and, of course, in new, more modern steels. Peter knew that the knife would most likely never be used as a weapon, and the main task of the knife would be to ensure the survival of the pilot. The knife should be made of stainless steel, but at the same time, it should hold the cutting edge as well as possible. The handle must be safe and ergonomic, and should allow the pilot to hold the knife securely with both a wet and frozen hand. And then on, the most interesting thing about which I personally, would never have thought. The weight of the knife. It should have been moderately easy, since with a bailout, the pilot experiences an overload in 9G. That is, the weight of the pilot and any equipment located on it, increases in 9 times the size! And with excessive weight, the knife, with such a load, will simply tear up the pilot's equipment! But, with moderate weight, the knife must be very powerful, in order to withstand the most severe tests in the pilot's survival mode. And so, Peter sat down and made a simple sketch. In fact, it turned out a modern hunting knife. Pretty thick, wide with a cone-shaped blade, a protruding shank passing through the whole handle, from a special high-end steel ATS34 from Hitachi Metals produced in Japan and a reliable cellular grip of synthetic rubber - Elastomer. The focus of attention was on creating a really good knife, not focusing attention on its value. But soon Peter learned that the officers were not ready for the level of prices that he voiced. And although the Air Force really wanted his knife, but the Swedish Armed Forces Logistics Office contacted other manufacturers, asking them to provide their survival knife options, based on Peter's work. It was not pleasant, because having spent a lot of time and energy on the projecting of the knife, his ideas could easily leak to competitors like the contract for the supply of knives for the army. Nevertheless, none of the manufacturers could match the concept of Peter and in 1995 he made a supply of several thousand knives F1 for the Swedish Air Force. A year later, Fallkniven began selling F1 knives in the civilian market, and sales were record high! At that time, fashion for folders grew very much, and almost all manufacturers, well, at least in the US no longer stressed the development of modern fixed knives from high-grade steels. Therefore, when Peter introduced the world's first knife with a fixed blade of premium steel, he became a pioneer in this field. Of course, his competitors soon realized what had happened, but it was lost and they could no longer compete with the Fallkniven knives. And for this reason, Peter is still the leader of the knife market when it comes to hunting and survival knives. Sales of F1 went very well and soon Peter stopped selling knives of other companies and focused on soy production, so the company Fallkniven was born! Today, the ATS34 steel has been replaced with a laminated VG10, a Cobalt-Special laminate, and a laminated super-powder steel (3G), but the shape of the knife has remained the same as 30 years ago! And SAAB GROUP, which produces JAS 39 Griffin fighters, asked Fallkniven to continue releasing F1 knives for another 22 years! It was the story of Fallkniven, it was the story of F1. This, there was a story not from the Internet, but from the mouth of Peter Hjortbergerga himself, the founder of this legendary company. Well, that's all. Good bay! And see you online!