I've been married to Qin Yuan for three years Yet I haven't even seen him once On our wedding night He flew abroad Now It's time to end this all Qian Qian Can't you reconsider And wait for that boy to come back I'll make him treat you well Grandma I initially agreed To marry into the Qin family So that Grandpa could rest easy Since we have no feelings Let's part ways amicably It's our Qin family Who has wronged you This money Is just a compensation From Grandma No need, Grandma Thank you for taking care of me These past three years Blame that darn boy Bro Congratulations I'm getting a divorce What's there to congratulate Are you mocking me Saying goodbye to A loveless marriage Isn't that Something worth celebrating You have a point These people Sure have quick news You, the chief translator of Haicheng Just made a comeback And they've already found you You know me I can't sit still I have an exchange meeting this afternoon Could you give me a ride Get in Hello, Mr. Qin Hey You brat Who said you could divorce Qian Qian Grandma I married her out of respect for you She's been a rich wife for three years Isn't that enough Isn't she satisfied I don't care You better get her back I won't like this kind of woman Who only wants to marry into wealth And is materialistic I have something to do I'll hang up now Mr. Qin Good news The one you've been looking for Haicheng's chief translator, Anny Has been found She has already accepted our company's Overseas research for the Middle East project Very good Foreign projects Are crucial to the company I came back this time For this matter But Mr. Qin The tricky thing now is Our partners have arrived At the company early They're now waiting Our scheduled translator Is abroad now And can't make it What did you say? But Mr. Qin We've located Anny's position Should we ask her to help? Go find her now Yes Now, please welcome The youngest Chief translator in Haicheng Miss Anny To the stage Hello everyone I'm translator Anny In today's society The diverse communication needs Require translators to adapt to Multicultural environments I've always known Miss Anny is highly skilled Didn't expect She's also so beautiful Thank you Yes, indeed Not only beautiful But also so young Her future must be bright You're too kind I hope in the future I'll have the chance To interact more with Miss Anny Sure, there will be opportunities What highly skilled? I don't believe There are any geniuses in this world In my opinion She's just relying on Her face and figure To get where she is today What's she so proud of? Yeah Those men's eyes Are practically glued to her body Mr. Qin Miss Anny is here Attending the conference Qianqian I heard you got divorced Congratulations Why are you like my brother Congratulating me? But it's good this way It's time To be my Anny again You X You're the top translator in the industry Miss Anny, right? And you are? I'm the boss of your new project I called you earlier But you didn't answer If I remember correctly The project should be It won't start until half a month later Yes But I urgently need an interpreter It involves knowledge related to the medical construction industry I believe in China besides Miss Anny no one can handle this task In medical construction I indeed have worked on related cases 500,000 per hour I believe Miss Anny won't refuse, right? 500,000 an hour That's quite generous Might as well make money when you can Alright I'll take this project Please Specifically regarding the medical construction industry which aspects? Medical construction and drug export Among the attendees are they all foreign nationals? Two foreign nationals one American national Any other questions? No The specific content cultural language and attendees' habitual expressions I've already understood Oh, right I haven't introduced myself to Miss Anny yet My name is Qin Yuan CEO of Qin Group Nice to meet you Qin Yuan He's actually my damn ex-husband Can't see him when I want to But when I don't want to he shows up at my doorstep If I had known it was you I wouldn't have taken this job What do you mean? Miss Anny Do you think we're not paying enough? Our Qin Group is at the top of the industry The money we offer should far exceed the market rate Other companies can't compare It's not that Personal reasons Can you tell me? No, I can't Yuan Shanshan This interpreter who slept her way up How come she's here with Yuan? Have the foreign partners arrived? They're already in the conference room Wait 217 Are you thinking of having her translate? Is there a problem? A Yuan, she can't do it I heard from others She got her fame by relying on her looks Her abilities are yet to be proven If you just let her go in like this what if something happens later? I've investigated her background No issues But A Yuan, I went to the press conference today I saw with my own eyes her being surrounded by a group of men If it's not through connections, how could she, being so young, have such great achievements? A Yuan, don't be fooled by her Sorry, I accidentally overheard your conversation Since President Qin doesn't trust me, I can leave A Yuan Ms. Anny was invited by me I believe in her abilities But A Yuan, she Enough Rumors die with the wise You've been by my side for so long, can't you tell what's real? I apologize to Ms. Anny I'm sorry Ling Shixia, you wait for me Hello, Qin Group CEO Qin Yuan Please Qin Group was established The group has been deeply rooted in electronic technology development Currently, in 150 countries we have established branch offices and branches Ling Shixia, sitting next to A Yuan's brother should have been me It's all because of you Pleasure working with you Please Bro Yuan, congratulations on securing the project Thanks Shanshan, my ex-husband no wonder he went abroad right after marriage turns out he already had someone else Ms. Anny, would you like to consider joining our Qin Group? You can name your terms No, thanks Oh, right Middle East project Mr. Qin, you'd better find someone else I won't take it Why No comment Yuan Bro The Middle East project is related to finance She's a medical major How could she possibly handle it? I have a double major I'm definitely more accurate in translation But Ms. Anny has study abroad experience in the Middle East and understands local customs better She's worked with the diplomatic bureau representing the country and participated in overseas projects in both finance and medical fields She should be fine Yuan Bro You promised my brother to let me gain more experience and grow Right? Shanshan's brother, Su Yu, died because of me I promised to take care of his sister Shanshan Let me think about it Okay then I'll wait for your response Assistant Qian Look into Anny's recent schedule I'll personally invite her Ms. Anny's translation skills are truly impressive Hope we can collaborate again Pleasure working together Ms. Anny I'd like to treat you to a meal How about Mr. Qin I prefer being direct Okay About the Middle East project I hope you'll reconsider The previously agreed price remains the same I hope you'll assist Shanshan in completing this project Assist Yes After all her experience isn't as extensive as yours So Mr. Qin came to me to find an assistant for Ms. Su Sorry I'm not interested I know having Ms. Anny assist is indeed beneath her But Shanshan insists on taking this project and I can't refuse her But this Middle East project is very important for our company So please, as a favor to me be my Plan B Qin Yuan you're really something To keep your little girlfriend from messing up you're even willing to humble yourself and personally ask me even making up such a clumsy excuse So Mr. Qin not only in business do you like to find Plan Bs but in love you also like Plan Bs Love? What love? Nothing I refuse Miss Anny why do I feel like from the first time we met you've had something against me Or is it that you're trying to get my attention Get your attention? Mr. Qin you're overthinking it Then what's the real reason? You can tell me I can fix anything In this world not everything can be fixed or compensated for I hope this is our last meeting Strange What does she mean? This Miss Anny is either allergic to handsome men or as you said trying to get your attention Playing hard to get Interesting Alright See you tomorrow afternoon without fail Why is it you? Mr. Qin you're crossing the line These high heels are so annoying Then why do you wear such high heels? Don't move It's okay Just a minor sprain No bone damage Put me down Don't move If you fall, I won't be responsible Mr. Qin if you do this and Miss Su sees it I won't be able to explain myself And didn't you just get divorced for her? Isn't that right? So Miss Anny pays so much attention to me She even knows about my Do you like me? No, I don't I just happened to hear about it Just happened Is it really just a coincidence? I'm just standing up for your ex-wife Mr. Qin You just got divorced and already found your next target No wonder Miss Anny said I'm looking for a Plan B in love You misunderstand me I'm with Shanshan just as siblings As for the divorce it's because we're not compatible Mr. Qin you don't need to explain to me I'm not interested in your personal affairs And don't come looking for me again I won't agree Using the strategy of playing hard to get will backfire And I've already been very patient with you If you reject me again it won't be interesting Mr. Qin Do you really think you're a hundred-dollar bill that everyone likes? I'm a translator not a doctor I can't read minds You are interesting It's you again I've already made it clear Stop bothering me Miss Anny I'm not here this time to discuss the project It seems like besides the project we have nothing to talk about Miss Anny You dislike me so much Is it because of my ex-wife telling you something? I knew it Someone like her, with low quality and questionable character couldn't say anything good Low quality Questionable character Mr. Qin Is this how you describe your ex-wife? Don't you think you were a good husband? Yes I was indeed not a good husband But if she's willing I'm willing to compensate her Since you don't agree with the project I won't force you These high heels called &quot;Future&quot; On behalf of Qin Group I present this to Miss Anny I hope Miss Anny on her future path will go further and further Dad, I've told you many times I don't want to go to that translation competition But sweetie I've already registered you These are the shoes Dad bought for you Keep your promise Your path will take you further Wait After all, this project was agreed upon earlier I'm someone with professional integrity Once I make a promise I won't back out easily I promise you Are you ready? The Middle Eastern partners have arrived Many reporters are here too They're all looking forward to Qin Group's project cooperation Today you'll be the interpreter Shanshan will assist Brother Yuan Didn't you say I would be in charge of this project? This project is crucial We can't afford any mistakes Mr. Qin The partners are waiting Let's go Just stay put later and don't interfere with me Good evening everyone This chip uses new technology that's not available in the market No sound in the earpiece Why isn't anyone translating? Since you want to compete with me Don't blame me for being ruthless The earpiece is broken Let's see how you translate now Finally I'd like to share two phrases As Heaven moves with vigor A gentleman should constantly strive for self-improvement As Earth is receptive A gentleman should be tolerant and virtuous Is there a problem? I removed this part from the script Without the earpiece Just reading lips She can't possibly translate it Anny Let's see what you'll do now The design of this chip uses completely new technology achieving from ultimate low power consumption to ultimate computing power covering all scenarios Finally, I'll share two ancient sayings The movement of Heaven is vigorous A gentleman should correspondingly strive for self-improvement like heaven Be resolute and strong Strive hard Never stop A gentleman should enhance virtue And embrace all things Such fluent Arabic! Media of Light and Shadow This is incredible! Media of Light and Shadow What a talented woman! Without headphones How could she translate? Ruo Ruo Why are you here? Qian Qian Isn't this what I heard? Did you get divorced? So I specially came to celebrate with you I always thought Qin Yuan Was not a good person Married for three years Never returned home even once He must have someone outside You guessed right What? He really has a mistress? Indeed All men are pigs Did he compensate you? I didn't ask Why not? That's what you deserve Don't let me meet you Otherwise I'll Otherwise what? Qin Yuan He's so unthinking How did he just appear? I just now Heard her talking about some woman We were just talking About another friend Who got divorced The reason for divorce Was Finding a mistress Then she said I worked so hard this time I should ask you for some compensation But I clearly heard Her cursing me She was just casually saying that Please don't take it to heart You Are Miss Ling You Know me? She's surnamed Ling Looks like she's my Annoying ex-wife How can she walk so silently? But you two really have no fate Married for three years Never met even once Now divorced But can see each other every day How does that feel? Not great If he knew You are his ex-wife I'm so eager to know his reaction Let's go Let's find a place Where you can talk to me properly About what Has been happening these days Ruo Ruo Something's wrong Qin Group suddenly stopped All cooperation with the Lin family No way It's true You know very well Our family has always been Closest to the Qin family He suddenly stopped all Cooperation with the Lin family We don't even have a chance To catch our breath We're about to go bankrupt I'm right now Downstairs at Qin Group I want to apologize to Qin Yuan But they won't let me in Don't panic yet I'm coming right away Okay Ruo Ruo Qian Qian Go Unauthorized personnel Not allowed Sir I'm a translator for your company I have my credentials Sir I forgot them Can you make an exception? Leave now No, I really have an urgent matter, sir Ms. Anny Why are you here? Mr. Qian Where's Mr. Qin? I need to see him urgently Mr. Qin is busy He's not in the office Qian Qian What should I do? I don't want to go bankrupt How can he be So petty and narrow-minded? I just said a few words And he wants to Destroy our entire family Ruo Ruo Don't panic Here's what we'll do I'll go back and talk to Mrs. Qin We'll definitely find a way Really? Wait for my news Qian Qian Grandma How have you been lately? I wanted to come see you Okay When I have time I'll have the housekeeper Prepare Your favorite shrimp Great See you tonight Okay Such a great opportunity I must not let it go Gotta get A Yuan back Pleasant cooperation You brat No matter how busy you are Tonight You must come back to the old house And have dinner with me You hear me? Grandma But I have work to do I need to go on a business trip Work is important But Grandma is more important If you don't come back I'll go on a hunger strike Grandma Come back to the old house Yes Qian Qian You've lost weight again Haven't you been eating? Grandma I've been very busy with work lately Busy with work But you must take care of your health If you don't have time to cook Come to my place I'll have them prepare something for you Grandma Actually I came this time to Madam Young Master's car is outside Young Master Could it be my ex-husband? Okay Let him come in Why is he back? Right after you got your marriage certificate Qin Yuan Went abroad These three years You two Haven't even met once Grandma has always felt Very guilty Now it's good He's finally back Grandma Wants you to meet You Won't blame Grandma, right? Oh no, oh no What a small world How could this be? Don't worry I will definitely Talk to that brat And won't let him bully you Do I really have to let Qin Yuan know That I'm his ex-wife? This is too sudden I had no preparation at all Wu Butler Why are you here? Where's that brat? Young Master was already At the door But then Suddenly received a call from Miss Su on the phone She left in a hurry And asked me to tell you She'll come visit next time when possible The Su family Why is it the Su family again? What's so urgent that she needs to go right now? Grandma Don't worry It's not good for your health to get upset Qianqian It's Grandma's fault Making you come here for nothing again Not at all, Grandma I came here specifically to see you Such a good child It's that foolish boy who doesn't know how to cherish you Next time Grandma will arrange for you two to meet again Shanshan What's wrong with you? I I had some stomach pain earlier but I'm better now Ayuan Today is our 10th anniversary of knowing each other Look I peeled your favorite shrimp I even ordered a cake Then I'll leave you young people to celebrate Ayuan Let's celebrate properly today Are you really okay? After all before your brother left he told me to take good care of you I was feeling a bit unwell earlier but as soon as I saw you I felt all better Good that you're fine Then I'll go now After all Grandma is waiting for me at home Ayuan If it weren't for my brother would you even look at me twice? Don't think too much It's late today Get some rest I'm leaving now Mr. Qin About the contract project The project contract I'll have someone send it tomorrow Auntie Please take good care of Shanshan If anything happens call me anytime Young master You're finally back The old lady today got really angry You should go talk to her and try to calm her down Grandma is so upset Did we have some guests at home? Miss Ling came by Miss Lin Lin Ruo She must have come about the project This woman bypassed me and went to Grandma What a clever move Grandma Where's that woman? What woman? That's your wife But I'm already divorced You rascal Why did you have to get divorced? You're really going to be the death of me Get out I don't want to see you My ex-wife is truly impressive First she made Anny misunderstand me Now even Grandma is on her side I was thinking of pausing cooperation with the Lin family to teach her a lesson But now it seems From now on, don't let these questionable people in Especially the Lins Young Master Do you dislike Miss Ling that much? It's loathing Assistant Qian Yes Cancel all cooperation between Qin Group and the Lin family I don't want to see her ever again Understood Mr. Qin Miss Anny You're looking for me? It was Ruo Ruo's fault before I apologize on her behalf I hope you won't let her personal issues affect the Lin-Qin cooperation Mr. Qin Please be magnanimous Don't take it to heart My ex-wife is truly impressive Yesterday she had Grandma plead for her Today she's approached you Miss Anny You don't need to humble yourself for a woman like Lin Ruo It's beneath you Ex-wife Lin Ruo Ex-wife Miss Ling Miss Lin Oh no, oh no He really mistook Ruo Ruo for me So He thought it was Ruo Ruo who went to see Grandma yesterday Mr. Actually, she's not your daughter Enough You don't need to speak for her anymore She'll stop at nothing To take advantage of the Qin family The more you help her like this The more I despise her Is there really No room for negotiation? The decision I've made No one can change Ruoruo Qianqian You're finally here I really have no other choice My family went bankrupt My dad can't even afford To give me living expenses I had to sell these bags It's all my fault for being useless I can't help my family at all Ruoruo Don't think like that There must be other solutions These designer bags Are really something else Sir You can take a look at our Spring collection Pack up everything On this wall for me Certainly No wonder Qin Yuan wouldn't budge He's given it to his little mistress Mom Ayuan hates nothing more Than women who are vain If you do this How will he see me in the future? Back then, with just one word You made Ayuan Give you all the contracts Meant for the Lin family He won't care about This small amount of money Go ahead and spend I was wondering why Qin Group suddenly Cut off cooperation with the Lin family Turns out it was your doing Isn't this Miss Anny? What a coincidence Indeed, quite a coincidence Miss Su This project Is crucial for the Lin family Could you please For my sake Give this project Back to the Lin family? A project we've already secured Why should we give it up? Besides We didn't force Qin Yuan To give it to us He willingly gave it To my precious daughter Who do you think you are? Why should we care about you? We were just trying to discuss this with you Why are you being so aggressive? And I've been feeling so guilty these past few I thought I was the one who ruined the Lin family Didn't expect Qin Yuan, that man Had long planned to betray me And use the project to please her Who are you calling a woman? I'm talking about her Seducing a married man If it weren't for you How could Qin Yuan possibly get divorced? That Qin Yuan Is no good either Cheating while married You two are perfect for each other Miss Lin I understand how you feel right now But A-Yuan's divorce It's not A-Yuan's fault It's all because of his ex-wife She's so uncouth She was never good enough for him Their divorce was bound to happen sooner or later Who are you calling uncouth? I'm just stating the facts That's all But you know I'd like to give Miss Anny some advice Although A-Yuan is single now What he hates most Are people who cling to him Besides Miss Anny It seems you're not even An employee of our company anymore It's best if you stay away From A-Yuan Cling? Who wants to cling to him? That man Qin Yuan I wouldn't take him even if he was given to me Miss Su You may treasure the Qin family But that doesn't mean everyone Wants to climb the social ladder Cling to him I wouldn't stoop so low Ruoruo Let's go What a joke No The more I think about it, the angrier I get She actually called you uncouth I'm going back To beat that Ruoruo Calm down Please That kind of person Isn't worth your effort Now that we know The truth of the matter There's no need To waste time on such people I have an idea Ruoruo You go back first Wait for my news Excuse me, miss Here's the Romanee-Conti you ordered Please Thank you No problem Come Brother Aren't you fond of red wine Try it Tell me What do you need Well it's like this Okay I'll arrange it right away The sooner the better The latest project I've already given it to the Lin family I'll have them send the contract right over Really? Brother, I knew you're always the best to me We're family No need to thank me Oh right The Qin Group has already been trying to undermine the Lin family It's not really related to you And to think Ruoruo and I went out of our way to apologize to him Yuan brother, we Miss Anny What a coincidence Isn't this Miss Anny I never thought we'd meet you here Are you having dinner with your boyfriend? What a coincidence Well since we've met by chance Why don't we join together? If we join won't we disturb Mr. Qin and Miss Su's private time? Better not I don't think it's disturbing Let's join together Miss Anny Don't be so petty I don't mind But Are you not fond of crowds? I don't mind Brother What did you agree to do? Your friends are my friends Miss Anny This must be your boyfriend Why don't you introduce us? Ling Yiyan The CEO of Ling Group In three months he acquired many companies and the West Suburb project that many platforms wanted His power is considerable Mr. Qin You're too kind. This Miss Anny, not only is she impressive, but her boyfriend is also remarkable. However, how come I never heard you mention him before? My relationship with Miss Su isn't that close, I suppose. I just thought that since we've worked together before, we could be considered friends. Don't you think so? I'm sorry, but for me, making friends depends on chemistry. Mr. Qin and Miss Su are not within my range of choices. Miss Anny, Shanshan doesn't mean any harm. Why are you being so harsh? Mr. Qin, you're joking. Our Anny is so gentle, how could she be harsh? By the way, Mr. Qin, I heard that you've just gotten divorced. So who is this? We're... This is my sister. I've mentioned her before. Sister? Mr. Qin, you're so close to your sister. If I didn't know, I'd think you two were a couple. I'm suddenly feeling tired. Let's leave. As you wish. Was that Miss Su just now the one responsible for Qin Yuan replacing the Lin family? Yes. Did he divorce you because of her too? Yes. But anyway, we're already divorced, so it doesn't matter to me. I just hope we never meet again. It's bad luck. Oh, by the way, tomorrow Master Qi Yuhong is holding an auction in Haicheng. I remember you studied painting with him during your college years, right? Unfortunately, I wasn't very talented. I only learned a little bit. That's perfect. Come with me tomorrow. I have a surprise for you. What surprise? It's a secret. You'll know tomorrow. That man... What exactly is the relationship with Anny? Come in. Mr. Qin, The check you asked me to send to compensate the Lin family was returned by them. They don't want compensation? Is the money not enough? Five million should be enough to support their company. What more does she want? Mr. Qin, I think we made a mistake. Lin Ruo is not your ex-wife. What did you say? In other words, the one who went to see grandmother wasn't Lin Ruo, but someone else. Investigate. Keep investigating. I've already looked into it, but I can't find your ex-wife's whereabouts. Are you even human? You can't even handle such a small task. Can people just disappear into thin air? If you can't find her, keep looking. Yes, sir. Also, tomorrow, the renowned artist Qi Yuhong is holding an exhibition in Haicheng. Will you attend? Yuan-ge. Shanshan, why are you here? I heard you were coming to the auction, and it just so happens I also like Master Qi Yuhong's works, so I came too. Yuan-ge, you're not mad at me, are you? Of course not. Let's go in. Wait for me here. Okay. Look! At this exhibition, even Qin Yuan showed up. Who's that girl next to him? I remember Mr. Qin is divorced. Could she be his new girlfriend? Mr. Qin, welcome! We apologize for not greeting you earlier. For tonight's auction, we've reserved the best seat for you. And this is...? Mrs. Qin? She's my sister. Oh, it's Mr. Qin's sister. Our auction is about to begin. Why don't we take our seats first? Oh my goodness! That's Ling Yiyan, right? That's the one Who in just three months Secured the West District project And is dominating the business world CEO of Ling Technology His female companion is so beautiful Such a perfect match Truly Master Qi's art exhibition He actually brought together Two major figures Who are rarely seen This scene Is truly a once-in-a-century event Isn't this Miss Anny? Didn't expect to meet you here What a coincidence How do you always show up everywhere? Yes What a coincidence President Ling Also likes Master Qi's paintings Has some knowledge Mainly because She likes What are you doing? Don't ask Just that I can't stand your ex-husband Actually What painting is given isn't important What's important is The person giving the painting Right? Right As long as it's from me She'll like it This painting Hasn't been given yet Everything Is yet to be determined I feel like There's a whiff of gunpowder in the air These two are talking in code The relationships between these four Are far from As simple as they seem It's getting late Everyone is waiting for us Let's take our seats Oh, right Our auction is about to start Everyone Please take your seats Yuan Ge Let's sit over there Bro The surprise you mentioned Isn't going to be Buying Master Qi's artwork To give to me, right? That would be so unoriginal You're about to Have a birthday I was thinking In your name Establish a charity foundation And then The first charitable fund Would be this painting You mean To put my works together with Master Qi's works for auction Well will anyone want them? Listen, my sister is also Master Qi's last disciple I promise you once your paintings are up there everyone will be fighting to get them That's good This surprise I like it Welcome everyone to this auction We're about to begin Our first item is a painting by Master Qi Ink Shrimp As expected of Master Qi's work The shrimp looks so lifelike It's absolutely wonderful Indeed, it's excellent This painting I have a similar one at home Yuan This painting is so beautiful Could you buy it for me? Then I'll hang it in my living room 6 million 8 million, going once Sold Congratulations Mr. Qin for 8 million you've won Master Qi's masterpiece Ink Shrimp Our next item is Master Qi's masterpiece Frogs in the Lotus Pond Starting price 10 million Please place your bids This painting is excellent The brushwork is fluid as if divinely inspired It's been a while since Master created such a fine work 15 million Brother What are you doing? If you like it, buy it My dear sister I'll spoil you Mr. Ling is so generous Offering 15 million right away He's spending big to make his lady smile No one will probably compete now Marine City Art Auction 15 million, going once 30 million Mr. Qin There's an old Chinese saying A gentleman doesn't take what others desire You've already won one painting Why compete with me for this one? The auction rules state Can a person only buy one painting? There's no such rule All of Master Qi's paintings today Go to the highest bidder Did you hear that, Director Ling? Highest bidder wins 40 million Hey bro Are you crazy? I can totally have my master Paint me an identical one Without spending so much at the auction Buy it if you like it I Actually don't like it that much Besides I can paint it myself 70 million, 70 million Modern auction, 70 million for the first time 70 million for the third time, sold Congratulations, Mr. Qin For purchasing &quot;Frog Fun in the Lotus Pond&quot; for 70 million Mr. Qin This way, please Truly worthy of the Qin family Ranking top on the rich list With just one move Spending 70 million Now that's real power Okay, Mr. Qin, please wait Okay, understood Looks like A Yuan Still cares about me Gifting such an expensive painting I'm sorry, miss This painting Is not for you Can something worth 70 million Just be given away? That's not right Shouldn't Mr. Qin have bought the painting To give to the lady next to him? Why give it to someone else? Besides Isn't that lady The one Director Ling brought? Mr. Qin What do you mean? Miss Anny I noticed You've been looking at this painting all day You must really like it You've done favors for the Qin family So this painting Is our way of saying thank you No thanks I've already taken The compensation I deserve This painting Should be given to the lady Next to you, Ms. Su Miss Anny Why do you always Keep me at arm's length? Good We're also friends A 70-million-dollar painting Is nothing to me Mr. Qin I've already told you before I'm the kind of person who values chemistry in friendships You are not within my range of choices Although we've cooperated a few times to put it simply we can only be considered acquaintances So since we're not close I'd like to ask you, Mr. Qin not to do things that cause misunderstandings Not close? Hmm Very well This woman is so bold She dares to reject Qin Yuan to his face She's practically my idol What's her relationship with Mr. Qin exactly that he would buy such an expensive painting for her But by doing this isn't she making Mr. Qin lose face Didn't you see Qin Yuan's expression just now It was frozen like ice Maybe Mr. Qin likes that kind of attitude Just because she saved the company you give her such an expensive painting Is it really just because of that reason Or is it that A-Yuan you've already fallen for her I heard that Young Master Qin was publicly rejected when giving a famous painting It's a pity I came late and missed this good show Why did you come here, kid It was too boring at the company So I came to take a look In this Haicheng there are many girls who try their best just hoping you'd glance at them once Who exactly is so ungrateful that they dare to reject you She was my former translator I don't know why every time she sees me she's full of thorns Did you do something before that wronged her I suggest you look into it carefully Who knows maybe you've met before Let's go Next this auction item is called &quot;Fishing by the River&quot; The starting price is This painting is quite good This isn't right This painting, whether in style or brushwork None of these look like Master Qi's work. Are you guys mistaken? Casually selling a fake painting, You think we don't know anything? Is that it? Everyone, everyone, Please calm down. This painting Indeed is not by Master Qi himself, But by Master Qi's Closed-door disciple. Who knows if it's real or fake? Master Qi did have a closed-door disciple, But no one knows Their name. What if someone's impersonating? Don't worry, I can guarantee This painting Is indeed by Master Qi's You say it is, so it is? What proof do you have That he's Master Qi's disciple? Yeah, yeah! I can prove it. This painting is genuine. It's her, The woman who just refused Qin Yuan. Miss Anny, You say this painting is real. How can you prove it? Yes, Do you have any evidence? Everyone knows That Master Qi would Put his unique seal Next to each of his paintings. You can look carefully Next to this painting, There's also his seal. There really is Master Qi's personal seal. Could it really be by Master Qi's closed-door disciple? It's just a seal, It doesn't prove much. With today's advanced Forgery techniques, Having a seal Isn't that surprising, right? But Miss Anny, You seem to know this painting so well. You even knew about the seal. Could it be That you painted this? Yes, I did paint it. I am Master Qi's Closed-door disciple. Is that true? She actually painted it? Miss Anny, Master Qi is The world's number one master painter. Impersonating his Closed-door disciple Is a great disrespect to him. Everyone They're all fans of Master Qi I suggest You'd better Apologize to everyone right now Yes, yes, yes I'm telling the truth Why should I apologize? Everyone, everyone Please calm down Well I've already invited Master Qi's Senior disciple, Mr. Wang Xuan To help us authenticate Whether it's real or fake We'll know soon enough Did you hear that? Master Qi's disciple Wang Xuan Will be here any minute If you're exposed then It won't be pretty Is that so? Let's wait and see Mr. Wang As Master Qi's senior Disciple Please help us Authenticate Whether this painting is from Your fellow disciple Miss Anny The result Will be out very soon I advise you To tell the truth now Otherwise It'll be too late later How about this painting? This painting Is definitely Authentic Oh my goodness This painting is actually real That means she wasn't lying She really is Master Qi's disciple This is impossible How could this be? What's impossible about it? The result Is right In front of you Sir Are you sure you're not mistaken? She's just A translator How could she possibly paint? Are you questioning me? I... I didn't mean that I just... She... She can translate and paint I don't believe it Let me introduce you She Is my junior fellow disciple My master's last disciple Many excellent Paintings in the market Are from her hand I never thought She actually has such a talent. Big Brother, long time no see. Junior Sister. Master and I have called you out to gather several times. You never came out. I thought you had forgotten about us. Ever since I married Qin Yuan, I've lost contact with the outside world. I've just been too busy. I just looked at your painting. It shouldn't be a finished piece, right? Really, what can't impress Big Brother? Indeed. This painting is a work in progress. I was planning to give the person buying the painting a little surprise. It seems now I must show some skill to prove myself. Wonderful. It's truly wonderful. Now you can believe that this painting is real, right? How much more does this woman have that I don't know about? I've heard for a long time that Master Qi took in a closed-door disciple. Rumor has it that she is exceptionally talented, creating paintings in one go. Seeing it today, the rumors are indeed true. I just didn't expect Master Qi to take in a female disciple. This is impossible. Just now, you were making a fuss, asking my junior sister to apologize to you, right? My junior sister tried multiple times to explain, but you wouldn't listen. I see you are the one causing trouble. Miss Su, don't you think you owe me an apology? If you don't apologize, then this matter won't be resolved. Miss Anny, actually, I'm also a fan of Master Qi. Just now, I was just a bit too excited, so I questioned you. If this painting happened to be fake, then the loss would be Master Qi's reputation, right? So, Miss Anny, I ask for your forgiveness. I apologize to you. Since the matter is resolved, let's just forget it. After all, harmony brings wealth. Junior Sister, what do you think? Miss Su I advise you in the future to think carefully before you act After all, there are more capable people in this world than you can imagine Anny You nasty woman How dare you mock me Just you wait I won't let you off A top translator and Master Qi's last disciple This woman is something special Yeah She seems to have many secrets Indeed The more secrets a woman has the more intriguing she is Oh right What's her name? Anny I mean her real name Come to think of it, after all this time I don't even know her surname No way That expression Don't tell me you don't know her name at all Let me ask around I quite like this woman Just don't know if she's approachable Look at you As soon as I mention pursuing her you get anxious Don't worry I would never steal my brother's love interest Since you don't know her background I'll help you investigate Okay Hey Let me give you a heads up Such an outstanding girl must have plenty of admirers If you want to pursue her you better act fast Don't regret it later But She seems to have issues with you If you don't put in some effort You won't win her over If you don't speak no one will think you're mute Hey Okay I got it What's wrong? Some projects at the company I need to go handle them now It's urgent Then you better go I'll take a taxi back by myself Okay Call me if you need anything Little junior sister, little junior sister, little junior sister We are all Qi Master's fans Can you help me Get an autograph from Qi Master I want one too, I want one too Give me one I want one too Mr. Qin Come with me Hey, over here Where did they go Hey, where are they Hey Shh Where are they Hey Did they hide in the storage room? No Let's go check ahead They left These fans are too crazy Mr. Qin Are you done hugging? Ah Well What's your relationship with Ling Yiyan? What relationship do I have with Ling Yiyan It's none of your business, Mr. Qin If you have time to manage others you'd better manage the Ms. Su next to you Are you jealous? Jealous? Why would I be jealous? Mr. Qin Aren't you being too self-centered? Why are you always so cold to me? Could it be you're playing hard to get? Of course it's because I hate you But I like you What did you say? Did I hear that right? Qin Yuan actually said he likes me I said I like you I said from the first time I saw you I liked you I was completely captivated by you Don't you think these words sound ridiculous? I don't want to be a mistress Shan Shan and I are like siblings Not what you think Yes I am married But right after I got married I went abroad I've never even met that woman If you're concerned I can explain to you Married for three years and you've never met your wife Mr. Qin, you really are quite a husband This marriage was arranged by my grandmother not my choice If it wasn't your choice why didn't you refuse back then? Do you know how important these three years are to a woman? You just got divorced and fell for someone else Don't you think you're being unfair to your ex-wife? It's different There was never any love between us No right or wrong about it I know I didn't handle this well So I'll send people to find her to make it up to her But when it comes to love it can't be controlled Just like my feelings for you They can't be controlled You understand? What are you doing? Mr. Qin I found your ex-wife's number It's sent to your phone Great I've got her number now I'll call her right now in front of you I'm sorry That's my alarm Good thing I have two phones If it won't connect I'll keep trying I won't give up Mr. Qin Whatever you say to your ex-wife has nothing to do with me I've told you many times Stop wasting your time on me Why won't this door open? Is anyone there? Hey! Is anyone there? Well, it looks like we'll both have to stay here How can you still laugh? Think of something quick! Right My phone Sorry Your phone service has expired No way It had to expire now? Oh God Please don't make me spend the night with him Miss Anny I think you should stop wasting your effort Few people know about this place We might have to wait for someone to find us No Isn't there another exit? Is there really no other way out? And now the power's out Careful That was close Had enough touching? Ah What are you doing? Let go of me! No Let me go! Miss Anny How heartless can you be? I just saved you And this is how you repay me? What's wrong? I was just kidding It hurts so much Where does it hurt? Wait, let me figure something out Help! Someone help! Open the door! Is anyone there? Stop yelling Didn't you say no one's here? What should we do? Can you hold on? I think my period just started Period? Can periods hurt this much? I'll be fine after taking some medicine Hey Anny Mr. Qin Doctor, how is she? Nothing serious Just avoid cold and spicy foods Thank you I said I'm fine Why make such a big deal? Hey, don't move Have some brown sugar water It's good for you Mr. Qin even knows about this? You must take good care of Miss Su often Why do you keep bringing up Miss Su? Are you jealous or do you just not like me? Not only do I not like you I really hate you Let me tell you Don't think doing this will change my opinion of you Impossible Why? Does hating someone need a reason? Yes Hating someone doesn't need a reason But it needs a trigger You seem to have been hostile towards me since you learned my name Miss Anny Have we met before Or perhaps you already knew me before This jerk is too perceptive No If not then why won't you look at me I Get away Mr. Qin, don't you know there's a saying &quot;men and women should keep their distance&quot; So please stay away from me in the future As for why I dislike you it's because you've offended me in so many ways For example, Ruoruo's matter You had already planned to stop cooperating with the Lin family Yet you still pretended that Ruoruo had offended you You know so much Was it Ling Yiyan who told you It's none of your business how I know What Cat got your tongue I'm not at a loss for words The cooperation involves many factors It can't be explained in just a few words, Mr. Qin I advise you to stay away from me in the future You Mr. Qin, I need to rest now Please leave What an ungrateful little brat Miss Anny, I apologize for the intrusion What are you doing This is what our CEO specifically instructed to prepare for you It can help relieve pain This porridge is most effective when eaten hot Well, Miss Anny we'll be going now How interesting Married for three years without even a phone call to check on me But after divorce he's constantly showing care every other day Hmph I never expected Miss Anny to be not only beautiful but also so talented Your translation is fluent and I admire you, Shen You're too kind, Young Mr. Shen Just call me Shen Xing Miss Anny Are you free later? I'd like to take you to dinner I have a translation task This afternoon How about tonight then? Young Mr. Shen Just tell me what's on your mind I like you I want to be your boyfriend I don't have any plans For dating right now So Young Mr. Shen It's better not to Waste your time on me It's just temporary I can wait I believe you'll fall for me Are you Miss Anny? My son has a Rare disease Only doctors in France Have clinical experience In the industry Only Miss Anny Has dealt with Medical cases Could you Please help me translate? My son is so young I can't watch him die Okay Send me the address I'll come right now I'm sorry I have to go now Where's the medical record that needs translation? So you're the translator My husband found Anny? Yes, that's me I thought Translators would look More experienced and mature Didn't expect someone so young Are you really capable enough? So now capability Isn't judged by certificates and cases But by age? Young girls nowadays Are so cunning Without connections How could someone so young Achieve such success? Mrs. Wang I'm here to translate Not to argue with you What kind of attitude is this? My son is my Precious baby We can't risk any mistakes If you make translation errors What if something happens to my son? Madam This Miss Anny Is a top translator in the industry Absolutely nothing will go wrong Why are you interrupting me when I'm talking? If something goes wrong Can you take responsibility for it? If you really don't trust me You can consider replacing me Sister, I feel so bad When can we start the treatment? Baby Don't be afraid Sister Will help you get treatment right away I can see that your son's Condition is quite serious I suggest you Give me the medical records soon To confirm the treatment plan quickly So we can ease his suffering sooner Stop trying to fool people here Didn't you say You're some top-notch translator? Alright then Translate a couple sentences for me to hear Also Those certificates of yours Show them to me right now If you don't have any I strongly suspect You're my husband's mistress Otherwise Why wouldn't he find someone else And specifically choose you Mrs. Wang What nonsense are you talking about? I've never even met your husband How could we have a relationship? If you keep slandering me Then you'd better find someone else Oh really? Feeling guilty, aren't you? I hit the nail on the head Stop it I told you to let go Can't you hear me? Well, well You even found a pretty boy To help you out What are you talking about? The evidence is right in front of me How can you say I'm talking nonsense? You woman Making connections with men everywhere To stand up for you I'll teach you a lesson today I Watch your mouth Otherwise I won't be so polite Wang Zhiming Tell me Is this woman Your little sweetheart? What nonsense are you talking about? Miss Anny is a translator I Paid a hefty sum to hire In all of Haicheng She's the only one who can Save our son Then this Shut your Ms. Anny Where is Dr. Smith? I've already called him The medical records are ready Can we start now? Please go ahead A Yuan The doctor said my condition is not serious Just take the medication on time Let's go Didn't you say you would go shopping with me today? Let's go A Yuan will go to the mall and buy you some clothes Isn't this Mr. Qin? Out on a date with your girlfriend? Isn't this Mr. Shen? A Yuan and I are nothing Don't say that I heard Mr. Qin just got divorced Is it because of Ms. Su here? Let me tell you your taste is getting worse You I'm sorry I'm quite direct Shanshan is my sister and my family I advise you to watch your mouth Otherwise I won't be nice You're holding flowers Are you going to give them to someone? Yes I've recently fallen for a woman You probably know her I know her too Ms. Anny I haven't been this attracted to someone in a long time I'm definitely going to win her over Who would have thought the playboy Mr. Shen would like Anny And that Mr. Ling last time was also quite interested What kind of woman is she with such charm that so many outstanding men like her I advise you to stay away from her What's the relationship between Mr. Qin and Ms. Anny? What gives you the right to tell me to stay away from her? Look how anxious Mr. Qin is Could it be you also like Ms. Anny, ON ANTI CFL Is that not okay? A Yuan What are you talking about? Mr. Qin saying this, CFL OR might hurt the feelings of this beauty Mr. Qin Relationships require loyalty. Too many irons in the fire and you'll burn. You should mind your own business first. Hmph. Ayuan, Didn't you say you'd go shopping with me? Let's go now. If we wait longer, the restaurants will be full. Let's go. Miss Su, This is our latest style. Ayuan, What do you think of this outfit? Ayuan? Huh? What did you just say? I said, This outfit... Oh, If you like it, get it. We'll take this outfit. Um, I have a meeting at the company. I need to go. Ayuan, Why are you so distracted when you're with me? Could it be that you've really fallen for that woman Anny? Anny? You just wait, I won't let you off the hook. Miss Anny, You've worked hard. Let me treat you to a seafood feast later to help you recharge. I just went to a nearby mall for a look around. I thought this would suit you well. It's too expensive. I can't accept it. I was too forward. I'll keep the necklace for now. When we're together, I'll give it to you then. Mr. Shen, You're really funny. Miss Anny, Your smile is beautiful. Can you, considering that I've waited for you all day, do me the honor of having dinner with me? I... Don't refuse me. Let's go. Can't you see she doesn't want to go with you? Mr. Qin, Weren't you out shopping with your girlfriend? Why are you back? You're eating from one bowl while eyeing another. Two-timing isn't very gentlemanly, you know. My business is none of your concern. He's a notorious player Don't let him fool you You're saying this right to his face How low can you get? Come with me Miss Anny hasn't decided who to go with You should let her make her own choice Enough I'm not choosing anyone You two are so immature Right now I just want to go home Miss Anny Something's wrong Mrs. Wang's child is in trouble There might be an issue with the translation You should come right away Okay I understand What happened? No time to explain Let's reschedule Reschedule what? Can't you see She's not interested in you? Any woman I set my eyes on is bound to be mine What's going on? Our young master is bleeding heavily during surgery We don't know what happened That can't be right I followed everything you gave me Including the medical case It shouldn't have gone wrong Miss Anny Our young master is not stable We still need you to continue communicating with the French doctor Okay Don't worry Little girl If it weren't for your careless translation How could my son be in critical condition If anything happens to my son I'll make sure you pay with your life Mrs. Wang I can responsibly tell you my translation was flawless No problem How did my son end up like this? Because I criticized you so you're holding a grudge and seeking revenge I don't care You must take responsibility for my son If my translation really went wrong I'll take responsibility But right now, the priority is for me to communicate with the doctor Can I take a look at the previous medical records again? Here No problem Are you sure the previous cases Are all here? This Our young master Has an allergy history Does this count? Such an important thing Why couldn't you mention it earlier? Allergies will definitely affect Surgical treatment What should we do now? Get me the allergy history records Again Quickly Look at this Okay, 2.8, 2.7, 26 I'll go communicate with the doctor now No She wants to go in What if she harms my son? You can't go in In this situation Only I can save your son Let go I said no means no Ma'am, what are you doing? The doctor is waiting inside Shut up If you hadn't hired such an Irresponsible translator How could my son end up like this? I'm going to sue you I'll have you thrown in jail Mrs. Wang It was clearly you who Concealed the medical history Affecting the surgical treatment What does that have to do with me? Now it's a matter of life and death I won't argue with you If you continue to be unreasonable Don't blame me for being harsh Okay, you little girl How dare you get physical See if I don't beat you Stop! Okay, little girl You're quite good at seducing men, huh? Just this pretty boy Has been propping up your waist What pretty boy? Do you know who he is? This person Is the chairman of Qin Group Qin Yuan I don't care who he is Protecting this little girl Means he's not a good person Shut your mouth He's that Global Top three Qin Group chairman Offending him We'll all be in trouble Go translate first Hey, you can't go in She's going in She'll kill my son Hiding the condition Now she's Stopping her from going in To save your son I think the one who wants to harm your son Is you yourself He's my own flesh and blood How could I harm him Say something, will you I never thought In the business world Such a cautious Mr. Wang Would actually have Such a brainless wife Mr. Wang I think our future projects Are off the table No, no, no If you keep talking nonsense I'll get a divorce Do you understand Shut your mouth And stay put Ni Zi You actually let A Yuan Protect you like this Just you wait Dr. Smith How's my son doing Don't worry He's out of danger now Go wait in the ward Okay Thanks Let's go To the ward Be careful I'm fine I was just Translating earlier Feeling a bit dizzy Not feeling too well now Have you been waiting for me Yes That Mrs. Wang Was so focused on You harming her son I was afraid she'd rush in And cause trouble So I waited outside It's getting late now Let me take you home Weren't you Shopping with Miss Su Why are you back Playing dumb I know nothing Looks like What I said Wasn't clear enough You Just left her behind To come find me Aren't you afraid Su Shanshan will get jealous Between her and me It's not what you think She's just like a sister to me Just a sister But from my perspective She doesn't treat you like a brother You've been with her for so long I don't believe You don't understand Her feelings at all So what if I know It's impossible between us I saved you twice today How come you haven't said A single thank you Thank you Just saying it verbally? What do you want then? I want Now that's a nice way to show gratitude Actually We could do it more often You're really something Alright I'm not joking with you Our Qin Group is about to have a New product launch There will be many Foreign suppliers coming I hope Miss Anny Can be our Host for the launch Okay I accept Miss Anny The clients have arrived Mr. Qin asks you to come over Alright Ayuan actually gave This opportunity to you again No way I absolutely can't let you Shine in front of Ayuan Without the script Let's see how you manage Welcome everyone to Qin Group's new product launch I'm the host for today Anny This is actually Chief Translator Anny Qin Group Actually found such a figure Unexpected This Miss Anny Is so young and beautiful In a moment You won't be able to praise her anymore Next I will introduce to everyone Qin Group's new product this time What's going on? Could it be She can't speak? Looks like this translator's skills Aren't that solid All show and no substance Qin Group This time might become The laughingstock of the industry Qin Group has always been committed to Being the best in every Not just delivering beauty and happiness But also building a stage For thousands to realize their self-worth This artificial intelligence product Wow This fluent English Is simply amazing Yeah I heard that Qin Group's New product content is long and professional Unexpectedly This Miss Anny actually Memorized it all How is this possible How could she possibly In such a short time Memorize so much content Qin Group focuses on personalization One's own AI intelligence To contribute to society I've truly witnessed today What it means to combine talent and beauty In one person Qin Group Really made the right decision This time Any other translator Couldn't possibly be like Miss Anny Miss Anny is so dazzling I can hardly resist Falling in love with her That concludes all the content Of the new product Thank you Miss Anny Since you're so impressive Knowing Qin Group's new product By heart Surely You must have done thorough research So everyone If you have any questions about the new product Feel free to ask They didn't mention before That there would be a Q&amp;A session The foreign guests here today Are known for their Tricky questions I don't believe You can answer them Looking at your expression Don't tell me you don't understand Thai Didn't Qin Group prepare for this? This is Disrespectful to us I remember Miss Anny Only knows UK LA And Semitic languages Now it's all over Sir You've misunderstood Qin Group Miss Anny actually Speaks Thai as well She's incredible, truly incredible For Qin Group, you Qin Corporation Values partnership above all And respect is the most important part of partnership Valuing respect is right But it can't just be empty words Qin Corporation respects All its partners Do you understand Japanese? Today's attendees Are from multiple countries With all these languages Miss Anny Can you handle it? I doubt it Of course Japan has been Qin Corporation's Most frequent partner country How could we not arrange A Japanese interpreter? Then what about Canadian and Russian? Can you understand those? I think Today's focus is Qin Corporation Everyone's comments Should be focused on The new products I'm sorry I can't answer unrelated questions Miss Anny How many more surprises Don't we know about? As expected from the chief interpreter I'm truly impressed I hope all guests here today Can establish successful partnerships With Qin Corporation Thank you everyone Careful These two together Are such a perfect match They're truly Made for each other This couple I'm totally shipping them Mr. Qin I can walk by myself If you don't want a lame foot Just do as I say Ouch Where's your first aid kit? It's In that cabinet over there Mr. Qin Let me do it myself Don't move What's wrong with you Why do you always hurt your feet Do you have a grudge against high heels? Why didn't you wear The ones I gave you? I just grabbed a random pair Didn't think much about it The heels I bought for you Have soles That are flat and soft Next time Try them on Mr. Qin I'm home now You can go back now Every time I save you You never even say thank you Are you in such a hurry to get rid of me? Let me make you some noodles I can do it myself Well Your body tells me You can't Where's the kitchen? Do you even know how to cook noodles? Don't blow up my kitchen Eat up Are these Your Noodles? Besides me Is there anyone else here? These noodles They're not poisoned, are they? How can you be like this? I kindly make you noodles And you suspect me? Well, you've been married for three years And never came home I don't even know If you can cook I just never thought A young master like Mr. Qin Would actually know how to cook Actually This is my first time cooking Mr. Qin You've been married for 3 years And never cooked for Your wife But now you come here And cook for someone You've only known for a few months That's quite something Why bring up that woman again? Could it be You're jealous? You're overthinking Well I cook from my heart Not everyone Deserves my cooking Especially that woman Then marrying you Must be quite unfortunate Well, that depends On who marries me Water, water! Are my noodles That bad? Why are these noodles sweet? Sweet? I might have Used sugar instead of salt What are you laughing at? Don't laugh at me What? You can mess up but we can't laugh? Fine then I'll make you another bowl That's not necessary Cockroach! I never thought Miss Annie Would be afraid of cockroaches Is it gone? Is the cockroach gone? Yes, it's gone. I'll get the door. Hey. Let me get it. What's this? I was worried my noodles wouldn't taste good, so I ordered some porridge for you. Hey. Then what's this? Mr. Shen's name is on it. Don't tell me young Mr. Shen ordered takeout for me? What are you doing? How many times have I told you to stay away from someone like him? He's not a good person. Who I interact with is none of your business. And you're &quot;hey&quot;-ing me? Eating food from someone like him will give you diarrhea. Confiscated. Hey, that's mine! What right do you have to take it? Give it back! Hello, Grandma. Qianqian. I'm not feeling well these days. Could you come back to check on Grandma? Oh, okay. Wait for me, Grandma. I'll pack up and come over. If you're still not feeling well, let's go to the hospital later. Oh, it's just an old problem. I'll be fine after taking the medicine. If I didn't pretend to be sick, how else could I trick you and Qianqian to come back? Just wait, I'll watch over you two and make sure you have a good talk. Hey, go open the door. Okay. Young master, you're back. Mm. Why is it you? Where's my daughter-in-law? Madam, there's no one outside. Grandma, you called that woman back again? I just wanted you two to meet and develop some feelings. You brat, why can't you listen to Grandma and meet her first? Impossible. Grandma, I will absolutely never like a woman like her. Don't waste your effort. If there's nothing else, I'll leave first. A Yuan Little brat I don't know who you inherited this from So stubborn Grandma Qian Qian, you're here I heard you were sick How are you feeling? Just the old problem Grandma just misses you Come sit, come sit Grandma's medicine Forget it I'll go deliver it anyway Grandma If you're okay, I can relax It's getting late I'll come see you another day Okay Come by when you can Sure I will Mr. Qin What are you doing here? I came here to meet someone I just wanted you to meet each other To build some feelings Meet who? So it's Grandma Qin who called me back She wants me to meet Qin Yuan Mr. Qin What are you to me? Do I need to report to you? I remember That little Mr. Shen Lives nearby, right? Are you going to see him? How many times have I told you? I told you not to contact him Mr. Qin What is our relationship? What right do you have to control me? Do you have something else? I'll take you home No need, I can take a cab myself What do you want to do? Do you think you can get a cab around here? Mr. Qin, I'm home You can go back now Miss Anny Aren't you going to invite me in? It's getting late now After all, a lone man and a woman in one room isn't good after all You should hurry home Miss Anny You really don't trust me? Yes, I don't trust you Do you have something else? Nothing Then let's say goodbye, okay? Hey You haven't been home for three years And now you can't think about entering my door Come in My dear CEO Qin Long time no see What brings you here, kid? What? Can't I Come see you for no reason? How's the pursuit going? Any progress? Judging by your expression Doesn't seem like much progress If you don't know how to talk You can keep your mouth shut Come on I just said a couple things And you're already upset The person you asked me to check I found some info This Anny is quite interesting Ling Shiqian This name Sounds so familiar But I can't remember Where I've heard it before Ling Shiqian Is her real name She's been a top student since childhood Not only skipping three grades But also winning various translation awards Left and right After getting her doctorate She entered The Ministry of Foreign Affairs But after a few years She returned to China After coming back She hasn't been working Guess what she's been doing? I don't want to guess Stop being mysterious and just tell me She got married Wait You hear she's married And you have no reaction at all? What reaction should I have? Cry my eyes out? I'm finding you Really boring Alright, let me tell you Although she got married I recently discovered She got divorced You mean She just got married and then divorced? Otherwise How could you possibly hire her As your translator? Who could she have married? Who could it be? Ling Her surname is Ling Assistant Qian Mr. Qin Where's my divorce certificate? Didn't you say last time That you didn't want to see Anything related to your ex-wife? So I threw away the divorce certificate Hahaha, threw it away? What? President Qin You really despise your ex-wife, don't you? Hahaha That woman would do anything to achieve her goals Even using grandmother How could she be Anny? Then why did she get divorced? How would I know? I'm not a mind reader You don't know this, you don't know that Then who did she marry? You must know that Now that question hits the key point I can't find any information about this person She must be quite mysterious Since they're already divorced it's all in the past It won't affect your pursuit of her Don't worry Makes sense I have to go I'll leave first Hope you win her heart soon Why are you here? I brought you some medicine It's imported Very effective for sprains President Qin As the CEO of Qin Group instead of managing the company you're here all day long. Why? You are divorced, right? That's right Now I understand why Miss Anny hates me so much Actually not everyone is like your ex-husband so irresponsible who didn't cherish you All men are the same You're no different from him How would you know if you don't give me a chance? How would you know whether I'm exactly like him or not? President Qin, in three years of marriage did you ever go home? Did you ever see your ex-wife once? You didn't even fulfill your duties as a husband How can you criticize others? In our three years of marriage he was just like you never came home He even He had another woman Don't you think he's a jerk? Yes Who is he? Does it matter who he is? Anyway, now I've divorced him I just hope in this life I'll never have anything to do with him again Well done Men like him deserve to be struck by lightning This curse is so effective What did you just say? Nothing I just want to tell Mr. Qin Don't fall in love with me Because I've had my fortune told My zodiac doesn't match with anyone named Qin It's simply impossible Mr. Qin, I need to go to work Oh I'll go first then Miss Anny You're really amazing My clients all speak highly of you They say your pronunciation is perfect and you're very professional That's just my job Let's wrap up for today In the future I'll work with you again Thank you, Mr. Li Miss Anny You're really popular Miss Anny You're truly popular Whether in life or at work Miss Su isn't here today just to say this, right? Miss Anny is indeed clever There's five million in this card Enough for Miss Anny to live comfortably for life What do you mean, Miss Su? I want you to leave here Stay as far away from Ayuan as possible Miss Anny You should know The Qin family is prestigious in Haicheng They would never accept a translator with no background as their daughter-in-law Someone as smart as Miss Anny should know what to choose Miss Su Your Ayuan and I have no relationship Instead of wasting time here you'd better spend your energy on him But I can see Ayuan treats you differently Miss Anny Please, I'm begging you I'm not leaving My brother saved A Yuan's life A Yuan promised me He would take care of me for life Even if you two are together You'll never get rid of me A Yuan has been divorced You should know that For me He hasn't returned home for three years Holding the title of Qin's wife So what? Isn't it still a divorce? This is the first time I've seen Someone who shows off A woman like this Who are you calling a woman? Whoever feels addressed can take it Miss Su, if you're so confident Why bother using me as a threat? I'll say it again I despise this Since you're so ungrateful Then don't blame me Hey, Ruo Ruo Why are you calling So early in the morning? News Someone has Released the video of you Arguing at the hospital That day They're distorting the facts Saying you mistranslated And almost killed someone Now everyone online is cursing you You should take a look I've sent it to you Okay Heartless translator disregarding human life Not only mistranslating But also hitting the patient's family Simply outrageous This female translator Has no professional ethics This news is quite hot Qian Qian These days You'd better stay home Don't go out People are already looking for you Some are even offering rewards To hire someone to kill you Is it that serious? There are all kinds of people now You'd better hide at home And don't open the door casually Okay Why is it you? I've seen the news Worried you might get into trouble So I came to check on you Next time, could you Let me know in advance You scared me I really didn't expect Someone who fears nothing Chief Translator Ling Would actually be afraid I'm only human, not a god. Everybody, look! This is the one who almost killed my son. This malicious translator! So young, yet capable of doing something like this. If it wasn't caught in time, my child would have died on the operating table. Mrs. Wang, you know the truth. You know it in your heart. Hmph, the truth? The truth is you seduced my husband and tried to kill my son! If you hadn't deliberately mistranslated, how could my son have been put in danger? He still hasn't fully recovered! You have to give me an explanation today! Miss Anny, you're a top translator, yet you did this. Don't you feel like you lack professional ethics? You even harmed an eight-year-old child! Don't you feel any guilt? Everyone, it's not what you think. Mr. Qin, you can't cover for her just because you like her. Don't cover for her! Everyone, you have to stand up for me! Don't worry, we'll get justice for you. Malicious translator! Get out of Haicheng! Are you okay? Everyone, you weren't there. You don't know the truth. But I will investigate. I will find out the truth for you. Okay? Investigate? Who knows if this is just your excuse to stall for time? You two are in cahoots! Everyone, don't let him fool you! Right! We won't fall for it! Mr. Qin, this is my private matter. You should leave. I don't want to owe you any favors. Even now, you're still rejecting me? What a show! What are you doing here? Here to save the damsel in distress, of course. You? A pretty boy like you saving the damsel in distress? Ouch! Get lost! Or you'll get beaten up too. You keep saying Ms. Anny made translation mistakes That caused your son's surgery to be suspended So let me ask you Where exactly did she make mistakes? Yecheng Finance She... Mrs. Wang I suggest you think carefully Before you speak The original document Was given to her by you, right? I've checked it There's nothing wrong Moreover Her translation work With the doctor Was all recorded on camera As for you You concealed your son's allergy history Which caused problems during surgery About these things You didn't say a word Also You brought so many people here today All of this is being recorded You think with just a few words You can twist the truth? What's really going on here? Didn't you say She harmed your child? Mrs. Wang, say something! Yeah What's going on? Everyone Why don't we post The video online Right and wrong Will be clear at once You... Just you wait! Hmph! Let's go, let's go Thank you You're welcome It's my honor To protect Ms. Anny If you really want to thank me Have dinner with me What do you mean? I solved this problem You thank him but not me Who are you to me? I can thank whoever I want What right do you have to control me? You... Mr. Shen just helped me It wouldn't be nice to refuse I can use this chance To get rid of Qin Yuan Mr. Qin With this energy You'd better take care of Your wife Don't cause Ms. Anny Any more trouble What do you mean? Let's go Mr. Qin What would you like to eat? I'll order Are you very hungry? Go down. Wipe your hands. You actually followed me here. Actually, I think this restaurant... Hey. Don't move. Miss Anny. Actually, I really like you. How about we... give it a try together? Aren't you crossing the line? Mr. Qin. What I do has nothing to do with you. Who am I to you? I... I'm tired, Mr. Shen. Take me home. Okay. Move aside. Sorry, Mr. Qin. I have to take Miss Anny home now. Hello. I heard... Mr. Shen is pursuing your little translator. He was bragging, saying he could get her to bed in a week. Is that true? I heard it with my own ears, how could it be false? You need to keep an eye on him. Don't let him be alone with Anny. Why are you here? Hey. What are you doing? Is that Mr. Shen at your place? What are you doing here at my house so late? Get out. I'm not leaving. How many times do I have to say it? He's not a good person. Do you really want to wait until something happens before you believe me? What does my business have to do with you? What right do you have to order me around? Get out. Hey. Hey, let go. Are you always rejecting me now because of that Mr. Shen? Have you been drinking? Don't worry about whether I've been drinking. You're too scared to answer, right? Because everything I said is true. Is it? Do you really hate me that much? Who I like or dislike has nothing to do with you. Since you're going crazy at my house today, I might as well just make everything clear at once. I just hate you. I hate your arrogance. I hate your irresponsibility. I even feel for Your ex-wife feels sad Qin Yuan You disgust me Did you hear me clearly? Say that again I said I hate you, I You're crazy Yes I am crazy The craziest reason is because I like you Do you know You're like a rose Piercing my heart over and over But I found out You're only like this to me What about others? You open up to others Why is that? Don't you think what you're saying Is ridiculous? You used to be indifferent to me You wouldn't even Spare me a second glance Now you think I'm pretty good You keep trying to be nice to me Why? Why should I respond When you're nice to me? What do you take me for? I don't understand what you're saying If you don't understand, forget it Please leave my house I admit I like you But I think I think you must Have feelings for me too Right? As long as you agree I can marry you right away Just consider me But I don't want to marry you I don't want to repeat the same mistake I'm not like your Irresponsible ex-husband But you were once That irresponsible ex-husband Qin Yuan won't trust you again Did you hear me? I said I don't like you Don't like you Don't trust you I'm not even your employee Anymore We're not even friends Don't come looking for me again Is this all your true feelings? Yes Come in Mr. Qin, something's happened at Su Corporation They've been reported for disclosing Problematic financial reports There's solid evidence of tax fraud Miss Su's father Has already been taken away Because he's Shanshan's father I've never interfered with him But I didn't He dares to pull tricks right under my nose But after all, he is Miss Su's father Does Mr. Qin want to help the Su family? No need, he deserves this You may go now Yes Ayuan, Ayuan You must save my dad It must be someone deliberately trying to ruin my family Please help me, Ayuan The evidence is conclusive now No one can save him Ayuan I have a meeting to attend I'm leaving first Hmph, I've always said there are no good people in the Su family Relying on saving a life once to ask for this and that And that Shanshan Su always clinging to Ayuan Which caused Ayuan to divorce my granddaughter-in-law Fortunately, this time the young master saw clearly the true face of the Su family and didn't offer help When that rascal comes back I'll definitely teach him a good lesson Madam, the young master is back Grandma, I'm home About the Su family's affair I've heard all about it I've told you long ago that the Su family are not to be trusted See, now they're in trouble Grandma, we can't say that After all, Su Yu died saving me back then I owe their family for that Even so Over these years, you've given them projects helped them out and taken care of his sister That should be enough Don't tell me you like that Shanshan Su How is that possible Shanshan and I are just like siblings It'd be nice if she were really your sister Don't use the sister excuse to be ambiguous Grandma You know what kind of person I am Don't you? I would never live with someone I don't like This picky personality of yours I don't know who you got it from My granddaughter-in-law Such a good girl And you don't want her You're getting too big for your Grandma Don't mention that woman to me Why can't I mention her? If you hadn't insisted on divorce My daughter-in-law wouldn't have moved out Leaving me In this old house With no one to talk to Alright When I have time I'll come visit you more often, okay? But I have work now So I need to go Says he'll keep me company Then turns around to go to work No I need to think of something Butler Wu What brings you here? Miss Ling The old madam's been arguing with young master lately She refuses to eat anything We can't convince her at all Grandma can't skip meals At her age Yes, I thought about it Only you can persuade her, Miss Ling The old madam Miss Ling Could you please Come back with me tonight? But I just Cut ties with the Qin family days ago If I run into Qin Yuan now Won't that be asking for trouble? But these three years Grandma has been good to me Um Butler Wu Will Qin Yuan be home today? Oh, young master is busy with work He probably won't be home tonight That's good Alright Butler Wu I'll come over tonight Oh, when the old madam finds out She'll be so happy Grandma, you're getting on in years How can you still throw tantrums? People need food like iron needs steel How can you not eat? It's all because of that stupid boy Still, you need to eat no matter how angry you are Alright, I'll listen to you Since Miss Ling came The old madam's smiles Have increased When you're not here There's no one to talk to the old madam She's always alone and depressed Grandma, I'm here now Even though you divorced Yuan But I've long considered you my own granddaughter This is your home Come visit often Okay I will Let's have a good chat and talk things through Oh, Grandma, you love tea so much, right? I specially brought some tea leaves I'll brew some for you Okay, sure Alright, I understand Mr. Qin, the old lady wants you to go back Your ex-wife is at the old mansion now Grandma, she wants me to meet that woman, right? The old lady says she's your wife and you should meet her Wife? We're already divorced She actually dares to claim the status of a wife How shameless It seems her methods of deceiving Grandma are quite professional Mr. Qin, are we going or not? Yes, we're definitely going Today, right in front of Grandma, I'll make things clear You brat, have you eaten gunpowder? Oh no, Qin Yuan is back My daughter-in-law is here Don't scare her She's my ex-wife Why does her back look so familiar? Since you're all here, let's sit down and talk You two haven't seen each other for three years This is your first formal meeting Daughter-in-law, come here quickly Grandma, I just remembered I have something to do I'll leave first Since you're already here, let's sit down and chat Right? Ex- wife I have nothing to talk to you about I'm really leaving You're already here, sit down and chat It won't take up your time Besides, we haven't been properly introduced Hello, I'm Qin Yuan Forget it, just die already Good evening, Mr. Qin It's you You're my ex-wife I feel sorry for your ex-wife Mr. Qin, you just got divorced and already found the next one If this wasn't your intention, why didn't you refuse back then? Do you know how important these three years are for a girl? But you were that irresponsible ex-husband. Qin Yuan. I won't believe you anymore. Did you hear me? I said I don't like you. I don't like you. I don't trust you. Oh, I'm really so stupid. You clearly said it so clearly, but I didn't notice. You two have met? Well, sort of. You little brat. You all met, and you didn't tell me? That's good, so it won't be awkward for the first meeting. Hey, Qian Qian, come over and sit. Um, Grandma, I have things to do. I have to go now. I'll come back to keep you company next time. You little brat, look at you. Your eyes are almost glued to her. Are you regretting it? You insisted on getting a divorce back then. I really don't know what you were thinking. Hey, Grandma, don't worry. I will definitely help you bring your granddaughter-in-law back. What did you say? Qin Yuan knows you're his ex-wife now. You have no idea how awkward I was yesterday. So what was his reaction? What reaction could he have? He was just very surprised. But seeing his regretful expression yesterday, I was quite happy. Really? I'm going to wander around. I'll be back in a bit. Is it really like this? So what if it is? Mr. Qin, do you have any business? If there's nothing, I'm leaving. Qian Qian, if I hadn't run into you today, were you planning to hide it from me for a lifetime? Since we've already divorced, then the best way to deal with an ex is to never interact again. Now I finally understand why ever since you knew my name, you've been so prickly towards me. Since you know now, Mr. Qin, why don't you stay away from me? I didn't know the person I married was you. If I had known the person I married was you, I definitely wouldn't have Could three years really pass by just because you didn't know? Your three years are time Aren't other people's three years time too? I'm sorry It's my fault I apologize to you I don't need your apology From now on, we owe each other nothing Qianqian, I... Who are you? Where's the person who lived here before? They've already moved out Yeah, they moved out last night Looks like she really intends to completely stay away from me Sorry to bother you You really don't plan to forgive him? What else? I don't want to go through that again But I see he likes you now He probably won't treat you like before I see you're interested in him Are you sure you don't want to reconsider? Ah! Cockroach! Cockroach! Cockroach! So what? What's missed is missed I'm the type of person who never goes back I don't want to have anything to do with him again Miss, your drink Thank you Then don't think about it anymore Let's have a drink Where is she? The number you have dialed is currently unavailable What's wrong? I was drinking with Qianqian here I went to the bathroom for a moment and she disappeared Could she have left first? That's impossible Her bag is still here Then let's split up and look for her Little Miss Shen Don't rush Tonight I'll make you feel real good Trying to run? Let go of me! Quite feisty, huh? I like you, that's giving you face Don't be ungrateful You shameless... No woman that I, Shen Xing, set my eyes on has ever gotten away Let go of me! Stop! Are you okay? Are you hurt? You again Ruining my fun Didn't I tell you before to stay away from her? If I catch you again next time Don't blame me for being unkind To you and the Shen family Mr. Qin Do you really want to make things ugly between our two families over a woman? Just a Shen family Doesn't deserve to hurt the relationship between me and her Let's go Qin Yuan Qin Yuan, Qin Yuan Wake up, Qin Yuan Doctor How is my grandson doing? The patient suffered a blow to the head resulting in a mild concussion But there is no danger to life That's great, that's great But you should go in and see him A Yuan, how are you feeling? Grandma, I'm fine This is You don't recognize me anymore? Hmm, you look quite familiar But I can't remember He really doesn't remember anything But maybe that's not so bad Forgetting everything Maybe this way is our best ending Qian Qian, can you not leave? Ruo Ruo, don't worry I will come back to see you often This city doesn't have anyone who wants me to stay What if I say I'm not the only one? Miss Ling Let's get to know each other again My name is Qin Yuan