Translator: Tanya Cushman Well, I'm really excited to be here today to introduce you to a skill it can change the way you see the world and it can absolutely change the way you go about reaching And emotional intelligence because we have more than 400 Whether you're aware they can really drive the bus and emotional intelligence is and to respond to them effectively Now, to help you understand how emotional intelligence I need to introduce you It's going to be a bit Phineas was a guy who was building in the 1840s. And he was not just any railroad foreman, he was considered to be Phineas was very intelligent. He knew how to cut to lay the tracks on time, but he also had that extra something He was polite, he was calm and he was great with people. Well, on this one day in particular, Phineas, being the hands-on was working with an item about the length of this cane made out of really dense metal And what Phineas would do - The way they'd use the tamping iron they'd pour blasting powder in there, and then they would pour sand on top. They would take the tamping iron, What this did is it gave them So on this day in particular, Phineas was waiting for his assistant and his men overloaded just overloaded it with boulders - you can imagine the noise that it made - and it distracted Phineas. It also distracted his assistant, So when Phineas went it ignited the gunpowder and launched the rod It actually landed And it entered right below his left eye. This is his skull, which is on display at the medical library Let's say goodbye to the cane. Now I can handle this microphone. So, the area of the brain that it removed and this wouldn't be much except Phineas survived this accident his left orbital frontal cortex was probably in the bushes And he was sitting up under his own power within five minutes He logged his exit and he told the town doctor It took about six months Once they healed, Phineas He was still every bit as intelligent he still had interest his personality was the same. But there was something and it was how he responded What happened is, every emotion that Phineas had So he was angry, he was impulsive, Suddenly, he was showing up late. So here was this guy yet something else Let me show you Everything you experience must enter at the base of your brain. So if you're listening to me speak, the signal travels from ear If someone bumps into you, it goes to the base of your brain. Then it travels across your brain. And once it does so, it travels This is where emotions are generated. In Phineas' case, this part His brain was producing but he lost his rational brain. He lost the area of the brain where he was able to read Emotional intelligence combines the two. It's your ability to understand We're hardwired So these emotions happen before we're able What we do in response that's really what Now, if you're like me, &quot;Well, why do we - If this is hardwired in our brain and we've had ideas about this why is this a TED idea? Why am I learning about this now?&quot; Well, we live in a world that doesn't necessarily This Cola ad from the '50s It says, &quot;For a better start in life, How soon is too soon? Not soon enough!&quot; &quot;Laboratory tests over the last few years who start drinking soda have a much higher chance during those awkward &quot;So do yourself a favor. Start them on a strict regimen of sodas and other right now, for a lifetime of guaranteed happiness.&quot; (Laughter) Now, this is actually a satire, this ad, but let me show you a couple that aren't. These are real ads, and they send Here's one that's saying and curb food cravings. Here we have doctors who are telling us and then my favorite, &quot;DDT is good for me.&quot; These are real ads of random publications. It's a sign of the world we grow up in. We're taught the three Rs in school, We're not taught all that we can utilize And emotional intelligence Now, here's what most people Emotional intelligence You can be high in emotional intelligence You can be low in one They don't occur together despite the stereotype Right? That's a stereotype because those folks Another thing that people confuse with Personality is a stable set through which you approach the world. It's fixed at an early age, So if you're a hopeless you can't expect that to change at age 40. And personality, it occurs that's what neurologists It's fixed; it's not responsive to change, just like IQ. Emotional intelligence, on the other hand, is an area of the brain - This pathway between your emotional What that means is it's flexible and when you work your neurons will actually and increase the flow of information This is the essence There are four but the thing you need to know it really comes down to what you see as Personal competence is about you, awareness of your own emotions Social competence It's how you're reading and responding The reason, statistically, it's just kind of two, is because once you once you take the blinders off, it's really hard not to do And there's a lot of things I'd like to show you one example. This is from a study that was conducted In this study, they took people So, these folks, the optic nerves worked perfectly, they sent the signals back and the problem's there - The brain didn't know what it saw so they're blind. What they did is they put these people and they flashed images When you do that with people with sight, there's &quot;mirror neurons&quot; in your brain that mirror the emotional state and you can't help but have So if I put an image you'll crack a smile. If it's someone really angry, You can't control it. The thing that really freaked is that these blind people were having The exact same reaction. And it really left them scratching The brain cannot process They went back and they and what they found is that They found that as the signals they were actually branching out So these people didn't even know They said to them, &quot;I don't know. It was a hunch.&quot; &quot;Why did you furrow your brow?&quot; &quot;I don't know.&quot; &quot;Did you see something?&quot; &quot;No, dude, I'm blind. How many of you have walked and you can just feel a mood in the room even though you These are the kind of People who are highly are very tuned into them. And once you're tuned into them, they tend to produce Now, I'm going to show you and why it's so important to success, and I want you to understand It's because emotional intelligence Emotions are the primary driver Think about that picture It's at the base of the brain; It's emotions first, emotions first. So when you master your emotions, when you become aware of them it trickles into everything you do. It trickles into how you manage stress, how you work in a team, it's a foundational skill. Here's another bit of research. We found that emotional intelligence, explains about 60% of how you do. If you look at the percentage what percentage of them are high in EQ, it's 90%. And the skeptics in the room, I'd say, &quot;What percentage Well, you can have a high EQ there's other factors at play - but emotional intelligence to producing the behavior that you want Here's research we published and this is looking at emotional You have individual contributor first. These are people Then you have your supervisor, And then middle management. This is where emotional Because above middle management, it is a ski slope who have the lowest emotional intelligence Now, I just told you that 90% So shouldn't CEOs be the top performers? Well, the trick is, emotional intelligence those with the highest EQs But what organizations do - if you think back to the wonderful ads our society that sends us organizations perpetuate this, and they promote people above - Okay, why do you get promoted Because you're good with people. But how do you move above management? How do you become It's increasingly focused on tenure, on short-term financial gains, on industry knowledge. These things matter, but it's the really well-rounded people - people who are able to achieve that and also have high that really, really flourish. And that's the challenge: and it's for individuals that's going to achieve whatever job you're in. Okay, now, people always want to know how you can go about increasing And I absolutely recommend and you find what your low areas are. For one person, For another, it may be self-awareness. That's a really great starting point. But I do have three silver bullets And these apply to a lot of people - I guarantee you the majority The first thing is to get We all know that stress It compromises your immune system, it's linked to heart disease, The trick is, intermittent, mild stress - that is stress you keep under control - actually entices the brain to produce cells that are responsible So good things happen and you actually climb up But what they found at UC Berkeley is that when the stress you move down the backside of the curve. And it actually causes degeneration in the areas of the brain So when you keep good things are happening in your brain. And when this stress you actually are diminishing including control your ability So it's kind of this vicious cycle. The key here, like I said, and having intervention strategies to give yourself a break from stress. There's a great study where they taught people And that was to cultivate So every time these people felt stress, the experimental group and think about something It sounds a little hokey, but in these individuals that did this, it actually lowered So cultivating an attitude of gratitude physically, physiologically lowered So getting stress under control, doing all the stuff taking a walk, all these things that give you breaks The next thing, silver bullet number two is to clean up your sleep hygiene. More sleep would be great, but for a lot of people And cleaning up your sleep hygiene Now, the reason is toxic proteins build up This is a byproduct it's just a part of being awake. And when you sleep, your neurons actually clean themselves up and they remove these toxic proteins. When that doesn't happen, you actually - they hinder They make you groggy, and that's why you feel like crud when you get three hours of sleep So for most of us, the trick here is you need because your body moves through a very And if you're not getting sleep you won't remove these toxic proteins from your brain. What do a lot of us do Well, the worst thing, is taking things that &quot;help you sleep.&quot; Anything that helps you sleep - a Benadryl, three glasses of wine, if it helps you sleep, it is impairing your body's ability to go through the necessary sleep stages And that's why you feel groggy So the number one way is to not take something And, actually, there's kind because the other thing a lot of us do is we expose ourselves And here's how this works: In the morning, sunlight Blue wavelength light and it tells your body: After noon, sunlight is increasingly That allows your body which prepares you for sleep. All well and good, We sit in front of our massive Mac monitor or read on our iPad. You know, when you you're confusing and you're halting melatonin production, and it will often keep you but even if you can go to sleep your body doesn't get the quality of sleep that it needs to remove So, silver bullet number two is to clean up your sleep hygiene. No blue light, don't take anything wake up at the same time in the morning - these are all things that can help you Now, the third one is the one Get your caffeine intake under control. And caffeine really links back because caffeine It's six hours. So when you're feeling tired because you took seven Benadryl and you have a triple espresso, by nine or ten PM, half of that is still It's still there, doing it's thing. So it makes it hard to go to sleep, and even if you can go to sleep, again, you're not getting to remove these toxic proteins So, my recommendation here is just to not drink and know how it affects your body. Some people can tolerate more caffeine, but if you pay attention to it, you can see how it's affecting your sleep. So, those three silver bullets on the road to improving and I hope that some of the things prove useful as you pursue Thanks so much. (Applause)