When you look at a diagram of the solar system, A few centuries ago, that gap bugged astronomers; On the first day of the 19th century--January astronomer Giuseppi Piazzi found a point of the desired planet, but it was just a dot, big object. He suspected it might be a comet, fuzzy. The object was given the name Ceres... Well... Hopes were high that Ceres was the wished-for something rather amazing happened: A little found. Then, in 1804, astronomers spotted It was becoming clear that a new class of that they were all just dots in the telescopes were given the name "asteroids", which By the end of the 19th century more than 450 has accelerated over the years, and now, today, probably billions--yes, billions--of them system, and over a million larger than 1 km So what are we dealing with here? What are There's not really a hard-and-fast definition But generally speaking, it's a class of that orbit the Sun out to Jupiter. Objects we'll get to in the next episode. Over the centuries we've learned a lot about Asteroids come in a few basic flavors. Most, means they have lots of carbon in them. About materials, y'know, rock. The rest are lumped by metallic objects, literally loaded with So many of them orbit the Sun between Mars the Main Belt. The Main Belt has structure; about 425 million kilometers from the Sun. orbital period of about 4 years; a simple asteroid there would feel a repeated tug from of that orbit. The resulting gap is called asteroid deserts, all with simple multiples belt is like Saturn's rings, whose gaps are Another way to group asteroids is by orbit; from a bigger, parent asteroid that got disrupted and there are a few dozen known. For example, are silicaceous, rocky asteroids and probably all formed When you watch movies, they always show spaceships trying to evade the bad guys. But in reality average, decent-sized asteroids are millions on an asteroid, odds are good you wouldn't even And despite their huge numbers, they don't in the main belt and lumped 'em together Ceres is the biggest, at about 900 km across. own gravity crushing it into a ball. A funny thing about Ceres: As we write and for the first time, by a spacecraft named this asteroid is probably about to be obsolete. has a rocky core surrounded by a water ice probably more than all the fresh water on like the oceans of Enceladus and Europa. Early images by Dawn as it approached the and some craters are very bright; they may fresher, brighter material. There are tantalizing surface, which may be from sublimation; ice heat, or it might indicate cryovolcanoes. Dawn also visited Vesta, which is the third Vesta is round...ish, what's called an oblate sitting on. The southern hemisphere got hammered Several other main-belt asteroids have been Lutetia, Gaspra, Steins, Mathilde. Ida is moon orbiting it. In fact, a lot of asteroids similarly-sized bodies in orbit around each has two moons! You might think asteroids are just giant versions solid, singular bodies. But it turns out that's that asteroids have spent billions of years high-speed collisions, sometimes more slowly. but not necessarily be strong enough to Over time, enough hits like that can leave rocks held together by their own gravity, been cracked and still holds its overall shape. This became more clear when the Japanese Hayabusa saw what can only be described as a jumbled was littered with rubble and debris. It was for a loosely bound rock pile. It's weird to think of some asteroids as of gravel, but the Universe is under no obligation of surprises, and we need to keep our minds So here's a question: why is there even The solar system formed from a disk of material, into bigger and bigger pieces. As planets stuff, and grew large. Jupiter consumed a and left a lot of debris inside its orbit. Some of this clumped together to form middling-sized we have now, but big enough to undergo differentiation: and lighter stuff formed a mantle and crust. though, and that's why we see asteroids the denser core, others from the lighter crust. There was probably a lot more material between it either got eaten by Jupiter, or the planet's flinging them away. This may be why Mars is its food as it formed. While most asteroids live in the main belt, cross that of Mars, taking them closer to the Sun. asteroids. Some have orbits that take them orbit. We call those... Apollo asteroids. Apollo, the first of its kind to be found. Some have orbits that are almost entirely Aten and Apollo asteroids can get pretty close Now, while they get close to us, that doesn't their orbits may be tilted, so their orbits ever physically cross. But... some do have paths that literally intersect us every pass, either; after all, you can a car. The problem comes when you try to occupy Astronomers, unsurprisingly, are very concerned why we have surveys, observatories scanning important topic, and I'll go into in more There's another category of asteroid that orbits a star, there are points along the the gravitational forces are in balance. If there, like an egg in a cup. These are called same orbit as the planet, but 60deg ahead; The first such asteroid found was orbiting after the Greek hero in the Trojan war. As asteroids ahead of Jupiter were named after behind Jupiter were named for Trojans, and Trojan asteroids have been spotted for Jupiter, was found in 2010 using observations by an the skies in infrared light, where asteroids called, is about 300 meters across and 800 million There are also asteroids that have orbits slightly elliptical and tilted with respect near the Earth in space, but don't really and sometimes recede. It's pretty weird, Some people say these asteroids are moons co-orbital with us. Only a few are known, get as close as 12 or so million kilometers Oh, one more thing. Originally, asteroids Vesta, Juno, and so on. But as hundreds more of names. Eventually astronomers who discovered a lengthy proposal and acceptance process Union. They also get a number assigned to A lot of astronomers have asteroids named asteroids, like my friend Amy Mainzer, who Amymainzer--and Eleanor Helin, who discovered 3267 Glo; for her nickname. And this one? It's a one-kilometer wide 165347 Philplait. Must be coincidence. Today you learned that asteroids are chunks of smallish planets but were destroyed after and Jupiter, but some get near the Earth. Moon but still big enough to be round and Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association channel for even more awesome videos. This hosted it too. You probably saw that. The our consultant is Dr. Michelle Thaller. It supervisor and editor is Nicole Sweeney. The graphics team is Thought Cafe.