- Let's be honest here, there are a lot of well-meaning people on the internet giving about online security and privacy. It's a line that even I myself should you abandon all apple products, pay for everything using crypto? Only connect to the internet via Tor? should you install a Linux This is advice that assumes or important figure whose data Whereas the reality is that most of this is just a distraction for us. It keeps us for taking the time to do the necessary important steps for our general protection. So today I'm gonna walk you through one such task that for all of us to do. It's free. It will only take you 10 minutes and surprisingly few people talk about it. (chimes) Welcome to All Things Secured. My name's Josh. And today we're doing a practical tutorial on how to put a freeze on your credit. Now I want to quickly explain for you to do and warn you about the biggest potential But if you wanna go ahead and just jump straight to the tutorial, you can use the time So let's start with the basics. You know, that you have There are credit bureaus worthiness based on what kind of debt you have, whether it's good or bad debt and so on. This isn't just for as citizens either, this applies to people all over the world. Whenever you want to open a or to take out a mortgage for a new house anything that requires borrowing money. These bureaus communicate with these companies to share whether or not you are a safe The system itself is good and necessary but most people don't use The problem is is that as hard as we try to protect our financial data or just any of our personal data online, statistics indicate that your on the black market right now, or if it isn't it will Here's an example, a few years ago, a hacker gained This is obviously before I had secured it with two factor authentication and they were able to Snoop from 10 years ago that had my Within 10 minutes, a credit card was open in Florida using my identity number that could have easily ruined my credit and online reputation. Thankfully, I was able to move and secure my Gmail account, but it taught me something very important about credit bureaus. The credit bureau did but they have the power to stop this kind of attack before it begins. And that is where the By law, these credit bureaus are required to give you the option to freeze any and all request for new So if there had been a credit freeze on my account a few years ago, the bank in Florida would've for a new credit card, they would've checked and then they would've been told that all new credit had been frozen. The application would've been denied and nothing would've happened. Now, credit bureaus make money So they don't promote because it ties their hands. They might try to sell or what's known as a fraud alert, but these are not saying With a lock or a fraud alert, the credit bureaus are to sell your data to third parties, which is a a huge revenue driver for them. You know how you get those notices in the mail that you are or that you're eligible for Yeah, that's likely the result of a credit bureau selling your data. A credit freeze prohibits them from replying to credit And that, in my opinion It's such a no brainer, in fact, that I don't about this more often. There are two big hassles with here that I wanna warn you about. The first is the fact it needs to be set up with It takes a little bit of time but as you'll see in the They purposely don't wanna make it easy. And they don't talk to each other about this one thing just The second is that in the future when you legitimately need to borrow money have to jump through a few extra hoops. I mean, you'll have to remember or thaw it, which would need to be done at least an hour in advance Otherwise, if you don't do at the car dealership having to had your credit application denied and then waiting for an hour while you thought your Does that make sense? If you have any questions about why this is important please leave them in the comments below but for now let's jump onto my computer and I'll show you exactly how on each of the three major All right, so you can use the links here. I'll have this link to a but you I'm also gonna put it in the description where you can go and visit the Equifax website specifically their freeze page. So I'm gonna click on, And one of the things that through this tutorial is that over a lot of information but don't worry about it because trust me, they already have this information. All they're doing is So I'm giving them my name. I'm giving them my address. I'm giving them even my or my ID number. And this will allow them to that I am so I can put a So I'm gonna go ahead and and then click on continue. And we're gonna continue For Equifax and each of these I'm gonna have to create an account. So I'll create an account with them using my email address And of course, I'm going If you guys have been for a while, you know that I use one password instead of putting it in my test vault I am actually gonna put and I'm gonna save my The reason you wanna do that for sure is because I wanna be able or unfreeze any credit freeze So in order to my identity they're going to send me a So if you see here, I'm I'm going to copy that code. And then I'm gonna go in and paste it into this place where I can verify my code and they're gonna process All right, now the That's just step one with it's not too much longer here. We're gonna jump in and we're going to place a So they're gonna give you a little bit of information it's free at what it does and then how you would take and make sure that you need to go and TransUnion to make sure So we're gonna place that freeze. And then the freeze is done. The only other thing that do is to download that confirmation PDF. This just ensures that you've gotta place, a record of the freeze to go back and unfreeze it you have that record that So this is what it looks like. If you wanted to look, I'm gonna go ahead and So you can see all it is is that says we're writing to confirm that a security freeze was placed on your Equifax credit report. And then if you go down, they're and do that same thing on So there we go. It took us. Gosh, I think it's only where we have placed I'm not speeding this up in any way. This is done in real time I'm gonna go back and open up Experian. And now we're gonna do the I'm going to add a security freeze and then freeze my own credit file. And we're gonna do the same thing. I'm gonna add my name. I'm going to add my last name, my address. I have to give a over my I'm gonna have to give and my email address. This is all gonna be familiar to you. And it shouldn't be that hard But one of the things that with Experian is that they're and that pin is what's or unfreeze your credit just give you one. Or if you notice here I'm gonna click yes to creating my own pin. And that's where I'm gonna go in. And I have to create a pin between five and 10 digits that I'll use to be able to unfreeze or thaw out my account. All right, I've clicked continue. This is something that both to verify your identity. And that's where you've You have to go in and answer did you open this credit card? What year did you do this? Have you ever lived in the following county or And a lot of the answers or five, you know, potential answers. And then one, the very last And you know, you can, you because I mean, you shouldn't be have, you should know the answers obviously but sometimes it's the All right. Anyway, we've to that, my and then my personal I can print that off to I'm gonna go ahead and do that. Print that page, keep it on And then we're really done here. So I can go ahead and close out Experian. And now we just have one more So I'm gonna go over here. I'm gonna click on TransUnion to add a freeze for TransUnion is just like to create an account in order to put that freeze on our account. So I'm gonna speed this up just in my address, my email address, they even ask for my phone number, but all of this I've done it before. My date of birth, the last four digits of my social security number. And no, I don't want you to (chuckles) So I'm gonna create an account with a username and a password. And of course, saving that password in one password in my private vault. And then they also ask me where you know, if I forget my password or something that can use this question to verify my identity. So I'm gonna accept and And this is where again, I'm asked all these questions to verify that I actually am who I say I am, that I lived, that I had this phone number that I lived in this county or that I lived in this city in 2001. So I'm gonna answer those Great, now we're done with TransUnion and we need to add that credit freeze once we've created our account. So I'm gonna click on and then I'm going to go You can use the same pin. You can use a new pin. It's completely up to you. You just need to make sure that you store that pin number so that you can go in and unfreeze your account And there we go. My pin number is set. The freeze is now on with TransUnion and all of my credit accounts are frozen. And just like that a freeze has been placed with It didn't take that long as you saw an it was absolutely free just like I told you. There are just those two First, make sure you keep or pin numbers so that you can thaw the And second, think about including even your kids, as to have their credit frozen as well. It's a very set it and And there's no good reason in this way. Was this helpful? Give the video alike and to allthingssecure.com using in the description below to of the most important online security and privacy changes than an hour to implement, take care.