- Give it up for - [Group] I Know Black People! - Welcome to the show, We take contestants who and put their knowledge of to the test. The contestant who answers wins our grand prize. Let's bring them out Our first contestant of African-American at Fordham University. The New York City Is a writer for such &quot;The Chris Rock Show&quot; and &quot;Chappelle's Show.&quot; Okay, our next contestant works Is a DJ and claims to A social worker in Most of his boys he goes The barber in Brooklyn of his clients are Black. Let's play the game. What is a Badonkadonk? - A Badonkadonk? A Badonkadonk is like an - That is correct! - A Badonkadonk. Big penis? - He's talking about I don't know. (contestant laughs) You do have a Badonkadonk. or twice before, yeah, so I might- Washington Heights. They'll tell cops, &quot;Girl - Ooh, that's junk in the trunk. That's what you put your mug That's a big ass. - He is correct. Junk in the trunk, what you put your mug or an ass are all - Black people! love menthols so much? - I don't, I don't know. - All right. Nobody knows for sure. - 'Cause that's - That is correct. - Is it a fact that they I'm not even sure. I don't know, the great taste? I don't know. No one knows. - Black people! &quot;Good Times,&quot; what did Mr. - Ooh, he was the handyman. - That is correct. - That is correct. - Let's see, I don't know who So I'm gonna have Was he a janitor? - That is correct. Amazing. Did not see this show yet, knows that Bookman - He was the janitor and his - [Dave] That is correct - Thank you. - Could you name any - Booger. - Buffalo Butt. - Chichi. I'm checking the I'm sorry. That's incorrect. - His name was Bookman? - Yes, and he was fat. - [Dave] What did they call him? - Fat janitor guy? (audience laughs) - Black people! distrust Ronald Reagan? - Because he was white. - Because he was white. - That is correct. - Why did Black people 'Cause he took all his money? - That is correct. - Because he was a Republican? - That is correct. Why did Black people - He wasn't supposed to be - He is correct. (audience laughs) - Tito, is pimping easy? - No. - No. - Big Daddy Kane would - [Dave] &quot;Pimpin' Ain't (audience cheers) Correct. I have a hard time - Yes, pimping, as a Is pimping easy? - Hell yeah. - Black people! in the first act, let's see Are you ready? What is a loosey? - Now, I should know this. A smoke. That's absolutely correct. - A loose cigarette. - A cigarette. - That is correct. What is a loosey? - Is that a way of - No, but we should What is a loosey? - One cigarette bought at - That is correct. A cigarettes bought at the from an Arab. - What is chickenhead? - That's a woman who puts her mouth on or sometimes called - That is acceptable. That is one of the many A fallacious woman. Things are looking up. - Let's see. Somebody on TV used You're such a chickenhead. Somebody- this is but I'd like to see it. - Somebody who's stupid. - No, a chickenhead is a hoochie or a fallacious - It can be used for It's mostly used to describe - A woman that likes - To suck (beep). A woman that likes - To. - To give a loosey. (audience laughs) - What is a chickenhead? - You can find that anywhere. From the hood or in the block. It's a bird. One of those that you just - That is correct. A bird that you bring That is correct. That's That's how they're used. - Finish this &quot;Good Time&quot; lyric. Temporary layoffs, good times. Easy credit ripoffs, good times. Scratching and Blank, good times. - I know that one character on &quot;Good - That's very good. - And I know that- a lot in your shopping malls. - Another actress is Lenny Kravitz's mother. (buzzer blares) That was &quot;The Easy credit ripoffs Good times Scratching and surviving Good times (vocalizing) Good times - [Rob] Damn. Ain't we lucky we got it Good times - [Rob] Yeah, I. (audience laughs) - I remember when Willis - Scratching and Blank, good times. - Can you sing it? this myself and it sounds like. Hanging in a jury But it's, and is it- - Say it one more time? Say what you just Hanging in a jury And I always thought as a kid, does that mean that But I didn't. You know, I have to I know the actual song, but those ones, I never It was. pointed out a fact This is the most disputed lyric in all of the &quot;Good - Yes. the point, I look at my - All right. - And what is the lyric? - The correct lyric, I had to look it up on I thought it was hanging - Black people! the final question, - [Contestant] I'm ready. - How can Black people - How can they rise Well, can they? - Reparations. - This is a rap lyric? - No, this, I'm sorry. - Oh, this is a - This is an actual question. - All right. There's a - That is correct. - Staying alive. - That is correct. That is correct. - Well, stop cutting - That also is correct. How can Black people - Get out and vote? - That is incorrect, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. - Well folks, our judges and we have a winner. Rob the DJ. Rob, come on out. Excellent job, Rob. Here's the grand prize. Of course it contains of Murray's Hair Cream. That's right. And one can is Two bootleg DVDs. And of course, what without a pack of - [Group] Black people! Chappelle's show Chappelle's show Chappelle's show Chappelle's show Chappelle's show Ow Woo hoo hoo