- We're back, everybody, and we've got Kit Hoover with us. Give it up for her y'all. (audience applauding) So we got her some water. She's not coughing anymore. (Kit laughs) As a mama, I can tell you Just a year ago my next guest unexpectedly heard music Upon some investigation it turns out it was his messing around on his old keyboard. Jude had never played Dad was so blown away he So one year later, little Jude is now the lead keyboardist at his church, plays parties, has 100s and he is just getting started y'all. We have Jude and his daddy, Isaiah- (audience applauding) - Hello - Hello, meet Kit, everybody- - I met you, good sir. - I love all that. (Jude laughs) That's like y'all's secret handshake from- - We have it. (Jude laughs) - So, Isaiah, what was when all of a sudden you and you saw him playing piano? - Yeah, I was astonished playing music and hoped But when I got here I couldn't to support family here and back in Ghana. So that's what happened. But I kept some instruments And Jude has played the drums before, but never anything keyboard. So one day he started playing something as he saw in the video and I went down there to record him. And I catch him watching the professional keyboards and how it functions. - So I bought one for him He does everything by ear and he practices three hours a day. - And he just learns - Yes, with YouTube videos. - Yep. - You are incredible. I could watch a YouTube video and still not know how to do it. I'm just saying. (Jude laughs) I wanna show everybody a all right? - Okay, here we go. I love you Jude. Okay, here's Jude. (slow piano music) - Oh my gosh! - Yep. (all laughing) - I love you Jude. So what do you love about playing music? - Well, I feel the joy So I love it so much. - I love that you feel joy. That's what I feel whenever I sing. I love that. So, okay, so Isaiah, Jude he had a rough start in - Yes, he was born premature and he had heart surgery And he had G-tube. It was first in his nose. He kept pulling it out so they had to put it in his stomach. So he was feeding through his stomach until he was eight years old. - Yes. - Yes, and he was later - Yeah. - So this has been ... That's why we are so thankful to God for blessing him with this special talent. - Yeah. because it's been a tough road. - Yeah, and what a To just express yourself sitting there with the music. It's a special thing. So Isaiah, and now Jude Where he once was treated, right? - Yes, we know how tough and difficult it is to be in 'cause we were literally - Yes. - So we decided to go and play to them as a form of giving back. So we've been to the Children's And that's his dream, to be able to play to support families - I know, that's gotta 'Cause you were once there. - Yep. and did you look how cute in that picture? (Jude laughs) - Yeah. - That little velvet number. - Of course. (all laughing) - So wait, Jude, you play the Is there any other instrument? Kelly's got a bunch of guitars up there. I bet she'd give you one of those. - Yeah. - Would you play a guitar too? - I could play the bass. - Ay! Look at Kyle, my all right, come on over. - [Kit] Bring it on. - Well Jude, do you know what Is it something involving with music? - Well, I wanna do music professionally and I hope I can write songs. I'm getting closer. - I love that. I started around 13, so you're - Yep. And writing is so good. You get your feelings out - Yeah. - Writing my songs. - I love that. - So well, Christmas just passed. Did you have a good holiday? - Oh yes. I had some fancy clothes and shoes. I like to look spiffy. (audience applauding) - You know what, it's working. You look really good. Well- - I'm sure you got a but we got you some more. So just check this out. - Oh. - So these are some of our favorite gifts from our holiday gift card. So there's a Nintendo Switch. There's a Nintendo Switch with which I love Switch. There's a Phillips wireless party speaker, which is, just blast A Visio 65 inch 4K HDR smart TV. - Oh my God. - A $600 gift card from Woom, Yes (laughs). - Right on the speaker. I love listening to music. - Yeah, me too. That's one of my favorites too. Also, you're gonna get a including Airfare to Lego Land Resort in California, Florida, or I know. Have you ever been to Lego Land? - Ahh ... - It's incredible. Yeah. - I'm 40 years old and I like it just as much as my kids. - We are interested. - Yeah, you are interested. (all laughing) - Of course we're interested, come on. - I love it. Okay, so we have one - All right. Well, my music director, he is an incredible pianist and we've been working He literally can play any song, I swear to you, I ask him all the time. And he plays on the show, we've written songs together, many songs that were number on the radio. So he's a great songwriter as well. So Jason is offered to mentor you to help develop your sound. So he's going to work and help with your writing. - Of course. - Of course. - We would love to have him. - Alright, so there's more. So in a few months we'd and play for us. - So we can hear what - Yep. Oh yeah Hey - Playing with the band. (indistinct) He's incredible. (audience applauding)