Do you want to be a pizza chef? Well! but learn the world of bread making, not pizza, this one is a cream, it's not a dough, this is water! the machine is clean and we are talking about 85% water this is the secret see? The Water... Can you hear it crackling? I also hear many people who say &quot;sourdough&quot; working with sourdough is a psychological exhaustion! But in your opinion...(question) Have you ever eaten pizza and drunk a lot? Why? Hey, write it in the comments, I'm curious! This is a pre-ferment that we made 24 hours ago... I studied, I worked out why I have fun with these pre-ferments, let's say &quot;Billisch&quot; is a cross between &quot;biga&quot; and &quot;Polish&quot;, let's say it's called Billisch a more hydrated biga or a less hydrated Polish, so to speak... An 80% hydrated pre-ferment DON'T worry, Gennaro will give a summary of all the phases at the end of the video! This pre-ferment serves to make the dough more digestible... in the kneading phase it helps us to make the flour absorb more water. This is NOT the dough that you simply put in the mixer, water, flour, salt and yeast and you wait for the dough to swell and then eat it like classic pizza... NO! working with pre-ferments is much more demanding, you have to keep up with it... you have to watch the temperatures, the temperatures of the flour, the water... If it's summer, winter... because those who work with pre-ferments must always give an identical product... It's not like you come today, eat a pizza, and say: &quot;Ah, this pizza is good and beautiful&quot; then you come tomorrow and because of the climate and it's more humid or it's hotter or it's drier, or colder etc... and you eat a totally different pizza, and you think: &quot;But have they changed the pizza chef?&quot; No, this is the difficulty of working with pre-ferments, let's start with refreshing the yeast. Now let's also add the &quot;refreshing flour&quot;. With this dough here, we arrive at around 82 83% water. Now we're using reverse, see? because this way the water is absorbed more quickly, given that these doughs and pre-ferments need to knead a little, not a lot because they absorb the water very quickly. The water should be added little by little, never all together... because the flour doesn't have time to absorb it and the dough becomes soft... instead we need a tough dough, this one is a cream, it's not a dough ! I'll show you later! Look how raw it is now! Let's load the water! I like to delve deeper into things, it's not like the neighborhood pizza chef teaches me the recipe... and then maybe a customer comes along and asks me: &quot;Why did you do this?&quot; and I reply: &quot;Eh, the neighborhood pizza chef taught me this&quot;... NO It's my character... I said to myself: &quot;Ok Gennaro, do you want to be a pizza chef? Well, learn the world of bread-making, not pizza&quot; If you like the video I ask you to leave a &quot;Like&quot;, THANKS! Afterwards you will hear how the dough &quot;pops&quot;... However, the most important phases of the dough... are the initial phases where we create the gluten... the structure of the gluten mesh. And the final phases, where we will close the dough. These are the most important phases of the dough. If a dough doesn't come out as it should, it's because one of these two phases wasn't performed well. The gluten mesh has already been created... little by little the &quot;pumpkin&quot; is created. For the first phase, as you can see, we run the machine slowly at speed 1, let's say, for a maximum of 7/8 minutes... then, when we switch to speed 2, which serves to make the dough absorb more water. .. in that phase, we break the gluten mesh, we go to &quot;stress&quot; it and by stressing it it becomes more elastic and absorbs more water. The second phase lasts a maximum of 3 - 4 minutes... Between the first and second phases, the total duration is 10-12 minutes. then it also varies a lot based on the water you put in the dough and the flour you use because the flours are different from each other... some have a different absorption level you also need to understand how flour responds in the water absorption phase. Everyone says &quot;biga&quot; But BEWARE! There is the &quot;biga-type&quot; pre-ferment which ranges from 45% to 50 - 55% and then there is the classic biga, that of our master Giorilli who invented the biga, which ranges from 44 to 45%. The temperature of the pre-dough ranges from 18deg to 19deg and must ferment for a minimum of 24 hours. therefore it is very challenging to make as a pre-ferment. This is the secret.. see? The water! Which helps us make the pizza more digestible. The more water you can put in a dough, the more meltable and digestible the pizza will be, because... Because a dough is made up of more water than flour! If I make you an 85% hydrated dough, it means that in a loaf of pizza there is more water than flour... so when you eat it, what are you actually eating? the water! and how does the water stay on your stomach? it's impossible! When I worked in a pizzeria as a boy, I knew a lot about pizza but I wanted to know more about the world of baking... So I went to work for the bakers, the older ones who explained to me: Use this pre-ferment for this, you need this flour for this type of dough... use this other flour as a refreshment... Then I started studying and specializing in the world of bread making and the results can be seen! Now let's start with the second phase: With this dough we are already at 79 - 80% hydration. The &quot;pumpkin&quot; is already formed. Now we break the &quot;pumpkin&quot; again (with water) so that we make the dough absorb even more water. We also add salt... Let's start with speed 2, now the &quot;pumpkin&quot;, as you can see, breaks again, breaks. I always add water gradually... because in this phase of breaking the &quot;pumpkin&quot; or &quot;gluten mesh&quot; the dough absorbs a lot. I always add calmly, because if you overdo it then the dough will no longer be able to close . &quot;pumpkin&quot; is no longer forming... I add water as soon as I see that the &quot;pumpkin&quot; is forming again. Now we have reached 82 - 83% hydration, but we still have water... We will reach around 85-86% Hear how it &quot;pops&quot;... The dough is now closed, let's wait for the 'pumpkin' to become nice and smooth I add a drizzle of oil just to facilitate the process of gripping the finished dough from the machine. The dough &quot;cracks&quot; a lot... it means that the gluten mesh has reached its absorption limit. This phase is very important... in the closing phase, the dough must not turn too much, because otherwise we stress the gluten mesh, overheat it and this would cause problems in the &quot;opening&quot; phase, i.e. when we transform the dough into pizza. Stop! When the gluten mesh is not worked well, the pizza turns out rubbery because it has a gluten mesh that is too rigid and when you eat, the water gives you the rubber effect . Do you understand what it is for? to relax the dough, it makes it creamy now it has to rest for a quarter of an hour we made him stir the dough a lot, we gave him a headache ! Let him rest now! Has it ever happened to you that after eating pizza in the evening, you go to bed and feel the need to drink a lot of water? it means that you ate a pizza that hadn't risen well, because flour is a living organism and if it doesn't respect its entire life cycle... flour by nature absorbs liquids and therefore you drink and you swell. This is why! We stopped the car 5-6 minutes ago... Look at the difference compared to before, Look at all these bubbles. The &quot;pumpkin&quot; was solid before, look now... Look how it has changed in 5 - 6 minutes Look, this is water... you see it's all water... it's a cream! do you see the hand? it means that the flour has absorbed well, the gluten mesh is perfect! we understand it from this, that the flour does not stick to either the hand or the machine. you see? the machine is clean and we are talking about 85% water! Look... 85% hydration... check if the machine is clean... or if it has flour from the dough attached... Let's see later if it becomes even more elastic, let's try it! but now this needs to rest now eh rest at least 40 minutes, an hour.. Look how solid it is now, I'll see in a bit if anything changes! many say they work with &quot;mother yeast&quot; but working with mother yeast is exhausting! once it grows, once it doesn't, once it's acidic, once it's not very acidic... Pizza never turns out the same! Instead, the pre-ferment is cold processed... so once you understand the temperatures of the flour... the product almost always remains the same... but even so it can play tricks on you if you're not careful eh Look now, Let's see if anything changes... About forty minutes have passed... The dough has still changed shape... it's becoming elastic... Let's start making the loaves, the weight of each one is 260 grams , approximately 270... Now let's finish playing our game, then we'll put everything to bed... and tomorrow we'll eat the water resistant now I'll ask you a question and I'm curious to know the answers... from what Can we understand if a dough has risen well? and did it go through the entire life cycle? Hey, write it in the comments, I'm curious! Write in many eh, without shame and without fear, Have fun! Let's make a sea of pizzas! An average of eighty pizzas come out of this dough... This dough is so light that it could float in water! We are having fun, we do this job here for fun and for passion! it is very important to slap the ball... I have another question: why doesn't the dough stick to my hands even though it is made up of a lot of water? I'm filling you with questions and maybe you think... but what does this want from us?? I'm always waiting for you in the comments eh This way you learn a lot in my opinion... I tell you one thing, you tell me another... A community, where everyone can have their say, their thoughts, without malice. .. a large group of pizza chef friends or enthusiasts! Have you understood what the secret of the dough is? The secret is to commit, lose your mind about things... try, make mistakes and learn from your mistakes! You will think &quot;how is it possible this dough is water&quot;! CLEAN HANDS WITHOUT RESIDUE! EXPLAINS THE PROCESS FROM THE BEGINNING: We started with a pre-ferment which covers 70% of the total dough, so we started with 7 kg of pre-ferment flour, we then added the remainder of the refreshment flour, i.e. 3 kg of pre-ferment as I had said it is a &quot;bilisch&quot; therefore hydrated at 70% 75% and the final closure the water mixture is around 85 86% In the first phase we started at speed 1 precisely because we had to create this gluten mesh that could absorb a lot of water because in any case we are talking about highly hydrated doughs then stop... in the second phase we simply added salt and water and we finished... Then I rest, remove the dough, I rest again and we just have to wait for the final product! Clearer than this guys! there is no trick there is no deception, I told you everything! Now I'll ask you a question... and I'm curious to know the answers... Have you ever eaten pizza and drunk a lot? Why? Hey, write it in the comments, I'm curious. These are for our friends, BUY APPETITION GUYS!