Hello World, something ever since I moved to Japan Now the kanji for Danchi However, what it's really describing, is government housing Now the inspiration So their government housing, which probably accounts for Now what I like about Danchi, is that they were often rather than stand alone complexes. That's why it's common to see day cares, community centers, And the reason I think I came across so many of them during is because they are often that I like to bike and walk along. Now while Danchi is the term used for these apartment complexes, it doesn't mean they're or that they all serve the same purpose. Many are managed by local governments and are intended for low income people. So social housing. While some are owned by companies as a way to provide housing for employees. What I'll show you today for the middle class, or market housing, which are owned and operated by the semi-public entity called UR, or UR in Japanese. UR's original name was Nihon Jutaku Kodan. The name changed several times and now And it was them that were responsible for the initial designs of Danchi, both for themselves and That's why I went to UR's museum to show you how they looked And if you've been into modern a lot of these design features There's the sliding doors, called fusuma, which can be opened up or closed off to make The kitchen units, despite still look relatively similar, with the sink, stove, and And according to UR, it a new housing style, the to separate the dining room and bedroom. So when you see those with DK in them, like 2DK and a dining room and a kitchen, you know where that usage came from. The separation of the bathing room from the toilet was also done. Although at this time, having a private bath was still a luxury as most people went to bathe at public bathing houses called sentos. While some units had the traditional Japanese style squat toilets, or washiki, others had Western style toilets installed. Seeing the history museum was great, but I wanted to see what more so UR got me into one of Keep in mind that the and the units you are about to see today are ones designed for Unlike some previous places I saw, where the grocery stores of the building, this place that's right at the edge. The one disadvantage I is that the nearest major train station is about a 30 minute walk away. It is on a bus route though, but generally if you're working you'd probably be looking by train and bus. But let's go into a unit and see what a two bedroom place looks like. At the entrance there's where you take off your shoes Once again, you have your and laundry areas all separate, which allows multiple people And oh yeah, it's BYOWM, bring There's the kitchen and then another blank wall can be used for furnishings you bring yourself. And of course there's you bring on your own, which is also standard Some rooms are separated by And this room here has more privacy, but also doesn't get much light since it's facing the outdoor hallway, and not much of a view since the window is frosted for privacy. One thing you'll notice is which were once a standard, but now are becoming rarer in new builds. And here's the balcony, where Even in the most experience units you'll still see this kind of setup. Dryers just aren't a big thing in Japan. On the balcony you'll that you can use in case of an emergency. I find there's very little wasted space in terms of corridors and everything can be easily compartmentalized. It's quite different from you see in modern Western places. Outside of the units, there's that let service people There's also service panels A fascinating unit I saw was one designed with separate entrances. I didn't film it well, but to is a sliding door I think it's originally meant of an elderly parent, but nowadays it seems equally still housing an adult child of theirs. Standard in any Tokyo apartment building What comes at an extra This is the recycling and where everything is sorted One thing that was mandated for the area was that they build in a green manner, so you'll notice the green roofs that also have solar panels on top. In this community of buildings, you'll also find a community room, like over here, as well Unlike some previous which had space for grocery stores and other retail units on the bottom, this design has retail Surrounding it you can Something I haven't talked about yet is why UR is quite One of the main features of UR units is that they are first come, first serve, with no extra costs. What kind of costs, do you ask? Well, on top of a deposit that many non-UR rental apartments key money, which is a to the property owner renewal money, which can be a month's rent every couple of years, which can be half a month's rent. And let's not forget the which would be another month's rent. Even if you can come up with all that, it still depends on if the owner or management company likes you, as I showcased in my have difficulty renting in Japan. With UR, you only pay there's no other fees. This is due in large part to UR being a semi-governmental agency that has set up a fair system in place. This means that their main is if you can afford to pay the rent, which requires you to prove your income and meet the minimum income thresholds. Unlike social housing, where or else you don't qualify, For the lowest rents, you that's four times the cost. As rent gets more expensive, the income test is less stringent, until you reach a cap of Once you make more than you can rent anything UR has to offer. UR housing is definitely but I think it can be a in the middle class. For my family, when we we did consider UR housing, but there were alternative in the area we were looking But for other foreigners living in Japan who don't have a fluently like I did, UR can be one for a middle income family. The problem is that in the big cities, there's not a lot of UR housing and the spaces can be competitive, with popular places gone the This is because nationwide, 700 thousand UR units, which account for about of the 52 million households in Japan. Hey, welcome to me editing. I realized after watching that I wasn't clear social housing from this point onwards. So here's me telling you, all stats and images you will see, is about low income or social housing, not middle income or market housing, okay. What about that low income social housing I was talking about? They do have many more units, 2.16 million in fact, but it's so competitive that The latest numbers from 2014 gave a one in six chance but in Greater Tokyo, it was 1 in 16. The chances of not getting so that seems like positive news. When I first started making this video, I had mistakenly thought that there were a lot of new Danchi being built. However, what I was mostly witnessing was the rebuilding of old units. So while 17 thousand most of them were rebuilds, The truth is that since the building peak in the early 1970's, Danchi construction has And nowadays, the Japanese On that happy note, thanks for watching, see you next time, bye. What is market housing, social housing, or just public housing in (music) Hey again, so there was this chunk right in the middle of the because I cut it. It was all about the experimental design that UR was testing. And the reason I cut it is because I didn't want you to think that this was the average housing. It was just experimental stuff. However, it's the end of the video and what's the harm in showing you the kind of neat stuff Although this was about so it's not necessarily cutting edge. But, still neat I thought. So check it out. What really struck me around the museum was that the agency wasn't simply trying to but they were trying to create One such environment they was the sound environment. Unfortunately, I really as I had a wireless mic on So when she was on the floor (object dropping) I could clearly hear everything. What she was showing was how they test different materials and designs to minimize sound transmission. The door has rubber around the edge, There are alternating horizontal slats called louver, so the sound doesn't go through, So compared to a regular door What I was shown next was which are about 20 years This was a unit designed for those in a wheelchair. We named this kitchen system a cockpit kitchen So like a cockpit in an airplane. It's designed so that you can reach The edge of the counter is easy to grab and you Your legs can fit perfectly under the The water is turned off right now, but normally The counter is high, so on this side and on the other side there are So you can easily bring the cutting and prepare your food. This kitchen is actually installed in In that housing complex they And as far as I know, it was the only ever that one building that these special units were built in. In this three tatami mat room, in the daytime, you can use this and chat (with company). At night you can open this and take a bath. And this has a wooden cover as well, that reveals a toilet when you open it. So this apartment is designed These units over here are part of a different project called KSI. S stands for skeleton, meaning that they're which is the infill, or the interior. Basically, it's a design to be constructed in a uniform way, while still giving architects the freedom to customize the interior placing interior walls, in any manner they choose. One example of the tech they is this flat wiring for lighting above, that can be hidden under wallpaper. Another aspect is the piping and wiring, which can easily be routed Unlike regular pipes which need slopes to move their contents, these ones can do the job while flat, which allows for more All the utilities can be managed from the exterior of each unit, something that is true of units I see in modern Japanese This unit is still KSI, but since they were experimenting you could do with the design, it looks drastically different The whole idea of KSI can be designed for multi-use, and cater to people like single seniors, to people with disabilities, to families. So many people can sit here, All right, so this is