Had a Now I see a guy I'm like, that guy's fearless. Oh, yeah. Wow. No. When I was eight, Super weird. I was very serious. My name is Alex. I'm from Boston. I'm from Boston. I was, I go home every year Really looking forward to it this year. Last year was weird because I'm not gay. I just thought it would be hilarious. I have an uncle who doesn't and because of that, I've actually come Every Thanksgiving. For the last four years. And they say that coming out is like the And it is. But it gets easier every single year. Here's how I do it. I stand up with a glass of water Like I'm giving a toast at a wedding. And I go. Excuse me, everyone. I have an announcement to make. And then my uncle goes, for Christ's And I release the jobs. I do my musical number. I throw the glitter. It's part of the meal now. Do you know what I mean? It's part of Thanksgiving. It's part of the ritual of Thanksgiving. It's part of the people expect it. Like the turkey comes out. The potatoes I come out. And I thought about not doing it this year because my grandfather for the first time in a decade, and no one has told him about my little joke because he's 88 Do you know how some older folks just do not do so? Like my grandfather hates surprises. It's not even like an old person thing. And it goes back to like the first time He was 16 and he was asleep on this boat And since then. He doesn't like surprises or sushi. And we leave him alone. And I thought about not doing it. But as soon as it was announced all of my cousins texted, like, And I'm like, you And my brother was like backup dancers. I was like, not this year. Just me. If you want to know how it went down. Here's how it went down. We're all sat around the table. It's me, my family, my grandfather and my best friend from college, Michael. He had nowhere to go this year And as I stand up with a glass of water what's losing him. And the look on But I'm on a mission, so I'm like, excuse me, everyone. Excuse me. Everyone. My uncle's head drops. Excuse me. Everyone, I have an announcement. Michael and I And everyone looks at my grandfather. Everyone except for Michael, who's excused Everyone looks at my grandfather, and he looks around the table I've known since he was nine years old. I, went camping and I opened a bag of peanuts. You ever notice when you open Chipmunks come out of nowhere. Chipmunks love peanuts. They decided. About peanuts. I opened this bag of peanuts. Three chipmunks came out of nowhere. Formed a semi-circle around me. They lock their tiny little arms. They started swaying and singing. Nothing yet. You sit up and, You're nervous. Oh. Yeah. The other day I had, similar to the dancing. Hey, hey. And, I'm paraphrasing, right, because I didn't. I do not speak chipmunk. Ha ha ha ha. The one who picked up his tiny little And he said, you, sir, are gonna give us some of those fucking peanuts. What a foul mouthed little rodent that guy is. He was the leader, though. You could tell right away he was wearing a little bandana. Pulled out a switchblade. I thought he was coming for me, but no, he just cut the chipmunk beside. Just to show his dominance. He stuck his paw on the wound After losing eye contact with me, who had a tattoo on his arm that just said nurse. Here's his thing. They shouldn't even know what a peanut is. Pens are not indigenous to North America. Just blew half your fucking minds, right? Yeah, the other half. Like watching indigenous. Here's what happened. One time, one place on a rope. Chipmunk wandered way out into the forest, and a camper left an errant peanut just lying on the ground. They had a good weekend. Him and his family. It was such a good weekend. And I'm glad they had that time together. Carol died two weeks after. She was intensely allergic to to Tina. I. There's this rope to my. And he found this peanut, and he pressed it up against his velvety lips. You don't know. You weren't there. So I ran down his throat. He loved what he tasted. He wanted all his friends to know. So he ran home as fast as he could. And he changed his Facebook status So confused at what to say. So much emotion pouring through me Kept yelling into the world. I know you're confused. How will this tiny little Paul. Did he reach the shift button? But why didn't he pick up the spot? No, he took grade nine typing. He knew. Keep your positive and k. You can put a peanut on your knee Risk its life for a food As soon as it hits your foot, Teach it a fucking lesson. Get your friends to hold the other Right. Make them watch the leader die. You're the leader now, Stephen. I'll put a peanut on my knee. It would crawl up my leg. Take the peanut. Run off in the woods. Come back and one more. and I started to worry about him. Because he's got to go home where They're just piling up she's gone to ask. They always do. And he's gonna be like, hon, You're not going to believe it. There's a guy in the woods. I well, I don't know his fucking name. Can I just for once finish. What? If there's a guy in the woods. Here's what's going down. I'm crawling up his leg. He's laughing. Then he just gives me Can you believe our good fortune? Now find a woman. She's going to hear that That doesn't add up, Trevor. And Trevor is going to be like, don't fucking start with me, Lisa. She's going to be like, is this the walnut incident all over? He's like, do not bring up How can I not bring it up? Trevor it almost ruined our life. That was fucking 92, Lisa. What a fucking girl. I can't let it go. She should have been. You in jail Like a nice fucking mother in America. Striker. That's what. It's. Lisa tried to hide the bruises on. She quickly found out. It's so hard to apply makeup to her. She finally found this little eye patch she could wear. She tried to carry went out to tea with Mrs. Owl the next day. The. Mrs. owl knew right away something was up. They've been friends since high school. Lisa has never worn an eye patch before. Mrs. owl just looked right at her who hit you? The. I know a lot of you are like. I hope that chipper joke is over. It's not what. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! This is a blend of travelers. I will. Hit command to commence. Ha ha ha! She cried so much. But you only know that when it rains. And the master traveler. He blew his tiny brains out. Ha ha ha ha ha ha! And a wolf came along. An eight is dead carcass. Well, Because he did not know the story. And he died of lead poisoning. They're really up to speed. Lisa had a secret. She was three weeks pregnant. No, no, no. Guys, And if you're upset. Go home and Google the gestation period of a have. A three week. She is very far along. Ha ha ha ha ha! I. Have to raise it. Oh, no. No! Oh my God! But instead, she just crawled into bed. Need rotten peanuts till she die. Ha ha ha! So don't feed the wildlife. Oh. I want to start off by saying that, you can be anything that you want to be. Especially on Facebook. You could be any corporation that you want to be. This is, on Black Friday a few years ago, Some companies were starting to make They started moving Black Friday up they decided they were going so their employees Like, TJ, Max was one of those stores And I was on their Facebook page, someone wrote them, Like, this person tray is like, boohoo, It's just another day. So I made a Facebook page and said will be open for Thanksgiving, but only if your house is to. You. He's like, I'm reporting We would read the report, we are still closed. And that made Trey angry. I wonder. If I know this is the Macy's Day Parade. This is the same year, on the Macy's Day It featured a kiss between two women, Now, this is the same Trey writing to Macy's now saying being dot dot is unnatural and not okay. It's okay to be gay Love yourself. It'll all be okay. Trey. We're still close. He's like Macy's and TJ Maxx. So related. We're gay lovers. You know, this is a brand of pimento cheese And so the owner of the pimento cheese said hateful things So then Costco stopped This is someone writing to Costco saying because they did this. So I responded at Costco and said, well, We're sorry to hear you're boycotting us. We hope you have a better experience Philadelphia, Cabot's, They wrote back and said they've been And then Cabot's Cheese commented Please make your own cheese. Oh my, looks like you're down to this. Kraft in Philadelphia. Kraft like, well, pass. Philadelphia's like. Yeah, I think we're all set. Oh. All right, we'll get there. We'll get there. This is, news station and Fox two Detroit. They shared an article that boycotted a game Here's a comment on that post And all caps. So I responded, and said, we care. And now you have a warrant out. Good luck. He's like, I have a warrant for what? Just because I said, who cares? I'll email Chief Craig Chief, Craig's like you're going to jail, You may remember, I guess Ihop ran change their name, to Ihop, and they told but it was just a promotional stunt But they ran a contest and asked people to And people all assumed. It's International Horse or breakfast. Then Ihop came out and said, And people lost their minds over this. They're writing to I have this person. Dwayne's like, fire your CEO immediately. This name change is the dumbest thing And waffle House is, like, If you need a cigaret, You know, want some fucking waffles People are really shitting on This is the actual Wendy's saying. Can't wait to try a burger from the place So I felt like someone needed a So I made my own Ihop Facebook with us changing our name, and you can suck ours. As you can see, Perhaps one of the greatest. And I have social media history. People write on. I have a page, this person said. I heard Denny's management and staff and now they're at a meth I'm like, what are you, 16 years old? That's the least professional answer possible Our family will never dine at Ihop again. That's And I had. No. You could be any pastor This is megachurch pastor Joel Stein, one of the richest pastors in the world. Also doesn't ever help anybody out at all. Keeps all his money. He has a huge house. He preaches in front of a giant globe. He has tons of people watch him on TV. He has a huge following on Facebook. And people write to him like this person for their marriage. So I made my own Joel And I responded and said, unfortunately, your Joel Osteen prayer In order to activate your account, that gets you access to three prayer I wanted to explain the Platinum Prayer That's ten per month, 4999, and you can see him perform Someone screenshotted this, and started that the actual Joel Osteen and then his church Snopes even picked it up. False. So I had to make my own Snopes page. True. You could be any city that you want to be. I used to live in Atlanta, Georgia. When I was there, I racked up Before I moved, I went to court, and, So that same day, I went home and I made And I used the, the city seal, And I started making announcements limit signs because no one If you aren't sure And we're shutting down a bunch of roads We can't tell you which ones, but you'll Fuck it. Just pee wherever you want. And this made the news, in Atlanta and the actual city of Atlanta. They gave a statement to the news saying I wasn't authorized And they're working with Facebook So then the news, they asked me and I said yes. And they aired this on the news. I said I removed the logo from the page posting as City of Atlanta in exchange for the following. All of my parking and traffic $60 cash. Two free rides on the trolley. Man, I hate flying. You know I think I'd rather pick the person I don't really give a shit It's like a five hour relationship. Make it more like a dating app. Obese Nazi with a service dog. Swipe left and a tiny Asian lady That's my girl. Yes. She is not a talker. Okay, but just like a dating app, I'm like, I got catfished. I had a chatty Uber driver last week. That's the worst. This guy wouldn't shut up. I forgot to add the so I did creative He's like, how about this traffic, I'm like, probably the Jews. He's like. One of my friends is like a beer expert, He's like, we gotta go to a brewery. I'm like, why can't we go to a bar? You can see how it's made. I don't care how it's made. Look, I like porn. I don't need to go to a broken home. Not saying. All because I'm broken home. Just the ones I like. Seems like a lot of It's kind of going away. All my friends are getting sober. But some people are better There's a lot of bad sobers out there. We always talk about the negative part. What about the good? Like, sure. You drove through a playground, Come on. Yeah. It's gotta be hard to be a kid now. I feel bad for kids. I phone, internet, social media. Remember how happy go lucky was? Kids Maybe run the car shotgun. That was like the biggest problem my life. Shotgun? Yeah. I never see kids doing that anymore. The only time a kid yells it out Oh, school shootings. What a bummer, The great American pastime. Yeah. School shootings are like the menstruation Happens about once a month. It's bloody, Well, I guess it's my turn now, If you're down on your knees They didn't choose that. They got dealt a bad hand. We should be grateful. We all were. When I was in third grade. I was attracted to third grade girls. Now I like adult women. When I was in third grade, Now I like red wine, Holy hell, that was close. Thank God Whew! I just watched a documentary on pedophile My friend goes, They're so annoying. I was like, that's it, That's the thing that's holding you back. You need a better reason that It's like, hey, what happened to Greg? He met a really cool kid that checks out. One of my, best friends is gay. He's obsessed with straight guys. It's like his thing, you know? He's like, I love flipping a hetero. He's like, you know how hard that is now? Hearts go out every night. See a bunch of people who don't want to have sex with you. I was like, that's exactly what it's like What the hell are you talking about? I would argue it's Is fetal flip a hetero? You got to take him out for hours, Yeah, yeah. Same here. He's like, no, no, no. Even if you do pull it off, They feel horrible after. We went back and forth for hours. Argue about this all night back and forth. Eventually I woke up at his place. To. Also, you always see a group of girls You never see a group of guys I love him a lesbian. In my crew. I be fun because gay guys very helpful Their outfit. A lot of a lesbian They're like, She's like, I got it. Yeah, you flooded it, you pussy. Are so obsessed with words now. Kind of shows how good we have. You know, like in the 70s, Like, if you want to show you're brave Yeah. Now I see a guy making off color I'm like, that guy's fucking fearless. Oh, shit. Wow. I told an abortion joke recently She was like, I've had an abortion. I was like, whoa, hey, sorry. I think what you did was much worse. But, you know, either way, I'll see you at home And again, all jokes, I love abortions. I paid for two last week. Yeah. You remember? Come on. It's all jokes. Friend of mine. She works at Planned Parenthood. And I was like, People don't like it. She's like, I was like, I, I'm get rid of this. Like, I was like, oh my goodness I got it, I was like, She's like, every joke is a miracle. Everybody's worked up on some, these. There's Muslims on airplanes. Well, I'd rather a muslim God never had a muslim kick the back of my seat I'm just saying, if the airport had a baby Yeah, but transgender, Well, They're not leaving If that was like their thing, then yeah, That's crazy. No. And you get the hillbilly guy order. One of these perverts puts on a dress Oh, what a score. Some guy. Yeah. What a lucky guy. Come on, go to work, you lunatic. I don't think all white people I do think a lot of white people That's really the big fear with whitey. Like if I'm walking down the street of I see a sketchy I'm like, crap, If I'm walking down the street I see a sketchy I'm like, crap, Hey, I'd rather get stabbed. Looks like an asshole. Yeah. White people. We are so worried about looking ignorant I guess because of our history. Like, We're sitting on the ski lift. I was like, Why is that? My friend has no idea, but he's gonna, you know, half assed his way through it So he's like, you know, they don't grow up with it Wow. Skis. Very expensive. Right. Right, right. Yeah, yeah. You know, I've never seen a black guy Just say no. No, it's all right. You sound way worse. That's why black people are smart. We do crazy stuff. We swim with sharks, Ask a black guy why do they do that? I go, that's a good answer because I think generally speaking, when it comes to sex, You know, men like boobs, Across the board. Boob Boob on the bus. Also great. Okay. Dick in the bedroom. Great Dick on the bus. Call the police. Nobody's calling the police on a boob. You see a boob out in the wild? It's like seeing a deer. You're like. It's majestic. Look, there's two now. Then your other friend walks up. Hey, look at that, a boob. We're like, you spooked it. Come on, we're creepy as hell with dogs. And we sound like creeps. They like it. They're begging me for it. Yeah. Thank God dogs can't talk. We'd all go to jail, right? Just some Chihuahua in a courtroom. Like, first he flip me over. That he caressed all eight of my nipples. That he slapped me on the ass You're a good girl. Good girl. God, your ass dogs all day long. And they're private harassing. I will never report you. That's why they're man's best friend. Also, dogs forget stuff. After, like two seconds, a dog's ass and be like, well, Frisbee. Because really, when you break down Dogs are shameless, I mean, they're like gold diggers. Look at the deal we've cut with the dog. Like, all right, pooch, I get to touch you Are you kidding? That's fucking amazing. I'll do you one better when you come I'll lick my balls in front of you I'll watch. That's fair. And cats? Cats are the exact opposite. Cats are like sexual assault. Victims are all nervous, You touch me, I'll fucking get you. Hey, you're not grabbing this pussy, Yeah. Now leave me alone. I gotta look out a window for an hour. One time, me There was a whole thing She's like, can you believe this creep? Grabbing women's asses, whispering I was like, yeah, it's crazy. She's like, can you do that I was like, I thought you hated that sick, He does it. If you do it, it's hard. So you hate her ass. But unless you like the guy, I don't think other groups, but a night they're not like, Yeah, yeah. Tase me, bitch. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. My girl, she likes being insulted But nobody tells you I learned that the hard way. Yeah, we'd be having sex. I'm like, yeah, you whore. She's like, yeah, like, yeah, you slut. She's like, yeah. I'm like, She's like, what? Like that's the one that bothered you? Weird. She's like you. Like, sorry, a dirty skank. She's like, thank you. Hahaha. Yeah, yeah. Sometimes I'll try to hook up oh, I can't have sex I can't have sex, I don't feel sexy. Wow, that was the case for me. I'd still be a virgin. I've never felt sexy my entire life. The whole concept of sex You know, your girl comes in. I wear my sexy leopard print underwear. Well, when did we decide I don't know, nothing says sexy underwear In that case, I'd wear my sexy underwear. It's a rare jungle I like babies. Babies are fun. Because they're not evil. Yet there's a million douchebags But you never assume that Isn't that nice? That's woman rubs her belly and goes, No, it's all up. It's all potential. It's all positive. Oh it's kicking. Might be a pro soccer player. It's never like, oh, it's kicking. Might hit his wife. Oh, statistically, way more likely than a pro Plus, it's already hitting a woman. Not even out yet. Haha. Yeah I don't know. I gotta figure something out. Being a relationship is always tough. You know, I've always Like Mark, you're a comedian. Why do you say that? Well, women love All right. Well you're taking the one singular, If you do with any guy, Serial killer. Take up the killing. This guy's organized and cleans up A terrorist. Take out the terrorized Child molester. Take out the molesting. This guy's got a van and can't I remember I had a one night stand once, went But during the sex, She act like a four year old in a car. You ever come across this? We've be having sex. Like, you know, if you want to, I was like, And we keep going, you know, I was like, you got it. Keep going. You know, if you want to, I was like, I do know we finished. We had a great night. We're laying there. And I was like, She didn't care for that one. I thought the, timing was perfect. You know, a lot of girls but it's nothing personal against you. I'm a nerd. I'm an introvert. A lot of girls get mad. Like, what? Do you just bang me and leave? Oh, yeah. This was a long night. I've been trying to win you over, like, I'm exhausted. There were five guys at the bar I'd out charm them, be more interesting, be conversational, She was like, I'm like, what are you fucking stupid? You, myself. When I'm an idiot, if I was myself, be like, That's not gonna work. But look, I get it. So it's just a bit distracted during that better. You've been laughed all night. Is there a problem? You know, if you're not enjoying the show? You know, you can go. You know, You can just leave, you know? It's okay. Whatever. I'm just going to do my. I'll just ignore that. We're all having a great time. Well, you know, we're in I'm just going to continue. I'm just gonna do my building mind sketch. Maybe I should just go. Who does anything good on the dome? I can't just get up and leave and let's, Excuse me. This one sitting next to me. Are you able to stand up, pick me up and take me outside, please? It'll only take a minute. Okay. I know you can hear me. So, what are you doing? You. Know that's not sorry. That's it, that's it. We. Do you want to follow in Yeah. Thanks. Hey. I'm just going to go back to my building mind sketch. Oh my God. Why did you put me back down? I've gotta get out of here. We were so close. You're doing so well. You can do it. Come on, let's go. Come on. That's what I need you to step up. So, what's going on? Wow. What? Okay, lady. I need you to put the doll back. Sorry. Yeah, Yeah, it's a bit distracting. Yeah, yeah, Okay. So. Yeah. We're filming the show, so can, you know what? I'm just gonna go back to my building. Mime sketch. Are you serious? Don't listen to him. Listen to me. I can't stand to be here. You're doing so well. Come on. That's the bit the big is. You taking me the doll? I'm leaving. Don't listen to him. So what's going on? She has to go. Does she doesn't look that way. You. Love me. Right. Hey! Come back! I it's up to you. Yeah. Okay. Whoa! Round of applause takes off my, Oh, man. Thank you. Wow. Thank God that bit worked. Last time I did it, Some guy at the front The disaster. Okay. I'm a small man. Yes, I'm a small man. Yeah, I'm a small man. I'm a small man. Thank you, thank you. I'm a hello. I'm. I'm. An. If you don't know me, how. You will never, never, never know me. You can do. This. If you don't know me. You. You. I'm 37 and I never, never, never know me around. I used to be a lawyer, but people would come to me for legal advice. Okay, the cat is gone. The small man costumes come off. So let's welcome back to the stage. Josh Grant. Going. To. The party. Like when he was young. drinking in the back I was scared when I name No matter what Never go, never showed up. That's me. Josh Glenn rocking out in the middle of my show. Why? Because I love rocking out. But little everything was about to change and yelled out, you suck! That's right. An audience member it! Suck! Oh, now why'd I scream that at? Why did I tell Josh he sucks? Why do we always hurt the ones we love? I guess I wanted to look cool, Quick, I better say something to compliment him. Right. Shorts. I. Had those really nice. Why did I insult me before? Does this audience member like me or not? It's so hard to tell sometimes. On the other hand, it can also be really What the hell's he point to? Me? I'm enjoying it. Oh well. Thank you. I'm not come. I just can't believe Not so. I'm I don't know. Oh, I think it's all right. I wonder if he's single. Like the birds. I definitely like that song. It's not like I wish he'd take his top. Take his top. I thought he'd take it. He's going to take his top off. I'm not. That's why I called it off. Yeah. I wish everyone would stop the chop. Take it off. Take it off out loud. Wouldn't it be great Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Want to take it off you? Don't you want me to take it off Yeah, they have me. They have me. They're happy. Do you? Do? This. So the real common question, people are like, were you a weird child? You like a funny, weird child. I'm like, yeah, I know when I was eight, Super weird. I was very serious. So here's the true story again And 11 years old, 11 so my older sister Rachel, she was 16 at the time Oh my God, ladies. Ryan 16 you're like, what? Here's what I figured out. Side story the loudest sound in the world is when a drunk chick is at a bar and runs into her friend Ladies, you know what I'm talking about. It is jarring. You'll be hammered at the bar like, yeah, I don't think I don't want to know I'm not like super. Oh my God, is that Stacy? I. I think that Stacy. Says it. Stacy. Severe. Oh oh everyone's like oh my God, are we in Jurassic World? You just saw her a week ago. So I'm like, back to my stupid sister. She has a sweet 16 party. So again, I'm 11 years old. I'm like, what do I do in this scenario? There's going to be a bunch of drunk Here was my game plan. I took my squirt gun, pissed in. Were you weird, child? So I went around and sprayed Yep. And they had no idea. They thought it was water. They were like Nicholas. So here's the mistake I made. Everything was going great. And I made the mistake of telling somebody My sister's friend, Kristen, she goes, You're spraying people with water. And I was so cocky. I'm like, it's no water. She goes, what is that? And I go, it's pee. All right. At that moment, Greg, the quarterback I'm like a John Wick at this point. I'm just like. Both eyes, nose, mouth mouth mouth mouth, She just annihilated him. And he goes, Nicholas. And Kristen goes, oh my God, Greg, That's pierce I was like, no. Again, I'm 11 years old. He tackles me, pins me down, unloads My own pissing in my mouth. Yeah, it was horrible. But it's funny how you remember stuff And it makes sense as you get older. Like, I remember that. And I was like, oh. That's why that's the only way I can orgasm now. The first part of that story is true. The second part is not. So I'm sure you guys have, that had to be the last time and your first. Nope. Here comes story And this is one of my favorites one of my best friends, We know who David is. Why? It's sweet. David. So he calls me up on time and he goes, hey, buddy, I go, nothing, what are you doing? And he goes, nothing. I'm going to a concert tonight. You want to go? I'm like, yeah, who is it? He goes, Def Leppard and Bryan Adams. I'm like, that's the most David But I go, yeah, how are we getting there? And he goes, I'm like, okay, that's weird. So you go to the airport, Beautiful supermodel, beautiful. Very tall for David. No, it was awkward. She was like, for three. He's going to hate me for saying that. So we get in the helicopter, we're ten minutes into the flight I'm like, And David goes, what's your problem? And I, I got pee, and he goes, when he AP at the airport. And I'm like, this is how dumb I am. This is real. I go, I thought there be a bathroom And I think I said it exactly I thought there'd be a bathroom So he goes there. No bathrooms on helicopters. I'm like, I don't know. I'm not putting up a channel five I've never been on a helicopter. Sorry. Magnum, P.I.. So he goes, well, Piss out the window. So he was not serious. This guy, I don't know, thought it was serious. It was like a sliding window to get air. I fucking saddle up. And I go to. Here's how dumb I am again. And I'm not lying to you. I thought. I thought he would just go like that, like a drinking fountain stream. And it would just go pee. Travels up everybody. It doesn't do that. Yeah, here's what it did. Oh, poo poo. Ooh ooh. All over my face and mouth. All over David and David's dead. Oh. And David goes, what the fuck? And I go, he said, piss out the window. He's like, I was joking. You can't piss out of a helicopter. I'm like, well, And that's the only way David can orgasm. Now. Silly. Just silliness. But yeah, I hate flying. I have to fly a lot, I hate flying. My friend the other day is like, He goes, you should go. It's beautiful. I'm like, okay, what's that flight? He's like, it's like 21 hours. Know the answer will always be no. If I've ever been to Bali, 21 hours on a fucking plane. If I go to Bali, then I'm moving to Bali. Not getting back at another flight. The son of alcohol on that flight to get to that nonsense. So whenever you fly, you know. That's right. You want to fly direct. Like get me there I love these online places. Have other options where I'm like, oh, Seattle to Denver. And that's easy. And the websites like, okay. You want to save 50 bucks? Yeah, maybe one stop. No, I want to get there. Okay. Soon. Just saying a couple more bucks you do stops. I'm like, no. And there was one site where I was like, And they were like, I'm gonna go. But what if. Three stops. Three stops was an option. I'm like, who is that for? Who's in no hurry to get anywhere at all? It's like a simple flight Denver. Okay, what about Seattle? The boss of Miami to Bali than Denver. The flight takes three weeks to grow. Beard. Now, stupid. And here's a travel tip. And this is serious. I have so much life advice. Don't fart on an airplane. Don't do it. Just don't do it. Unless it's spirit airlines. Then shit your pants There's no spirit on that. Fly it. It's just dead souls, miserable. Stuff. You have to fart on a flight. Okay, I've solved it. Here's what you do. You let it build. You know, when you feel it, let it build. Clench and push it forward. Yeah, clench. Push it forward until you're with child. Yeah. You have a beautiful fart, baby. Ready for the world. You feel it kick. You're like, oh. It's a boy. Then you go into the bathroom, press flush. You know how violent those airplane So violent, you just sit there and flush. It's like. It sucks every fart out of your asshole. Yeah. For the next five years, you have to fight for five years. That's how powerful that suction us. Yeah, and then you come. Yeah. And then you come. So I thought those flights were stupid. Then there's a flight to Mars. And if you've heard about this, it's The planet Mars. They want to get over and colonize Mars because they found water that's frozen. Okay. Yeah, we better get over there What the fuck's going on there? They found frozen water wild wings or something, You know? The game's on. The flight to Mars takes four months. Four months. I'm pretty sure it's one way for the way. That's dicey right there. You're done figure skating. You're like, okay, I want to go home. No. If I had to do a flight to Mars I would need a bar of Xanax It would be the whole seat next to me And here's what I'm doing. I'd open the window, piss out of it. Everyone's fucking dead. You know what I mean? Yeah. No. Thank you. Mars, Nope. Not happening. Cut to my next special, live from Mars. And I'm just figure skating. You guys still so poor? Essential workers. Of course, I'm talking about the brave men and women who served And that was me. So you can bring your pots and pans Now it's not. What are you saying? Don't get excited, Purves. Don't get it. Say, you little purse. Don't get excited. A sick person. No, it all started. You know, the way most things start. You know, on Twitter. I don't know if you can tell. I like to have a little fun. Kind of a fun guy. So, one night, I was feeling a little bit I said, hey, on OnlyFans, can you this or do you have to show a whole. Innocent. Just trying to connect with my community. See what's happening There's like, gosh, I don't know, why do we do that? Who can ever say what inspires an artist? But. I swear to God, all my life I had no idea the foot thing was real. No idea. I tweet that I'll leave, come back, Crawl one retweet 2000 50,000 retweets and counting. And I said. I said, hey. I'll say, hey, what's going on here? What is going on here? What in tarnation? Is going on here? And I looked in those replies. And what I saw was disgusting. Man, as it turns out. Or not? Well. I look in those replies and I was like, I call her feet bitch. I just got, So I knew I had to I Nicole, within 45 minutes, my friends are like, I said, yes, how the hell are these But I'll, As many of you know, I'm an honest girl, from the jump on this, longevity in business. By being an honest Abraham. So what I did, I made the title of my OnlyFans. Blaire Psaki ankles down, no hole. Play Psaki ankles down, no hole. Everybody see it from the jump. My purse. My patrons, my unwell man. This page is clean as a whistle. You want something, Horace? You're going. Gonna have to go to my Instagram. But all these men started. Subscribe. Money was raining down on me. It was crazy. I was ready to leave this shit behind I was like, I didn't even know All these men were subscribing. I don't know who they were. Maybe it was you. Were you? You were definitely in But remember, So I was going in raw. Bitch. These were un pedicure feet. I still had hair on my big toe, and I just cannot ever imagine purchasing something without viewing the product first. Man. As it turns out, no smart consumers. But I was having the time of my life. All this sipping on electronics. Oh, like I'm not gonna stomp a calculator for my guys. You gotta be out of your goddamn mind if you think I'm not stomping a Okay? I saw the bushel. Bananas. I made that shit goes black. Turns out I'm a foot innovator. I saw two piles of purse love when you saw Popeye. Oh, the purse go nuts when you saw Popeye the purse But then I got a horrible call. A call that will stay with me till my last dying breath. And he was my agent. They said, hello, Blair. I said, hello. Agent. And they said, Blair, do you have an OnlyFans called? Blair Psaki ain't goes down. No hold. And I said yes, he goes I was verified as hell. And they said, because you all auditioned for Disney. A lot. And casting directors And I said, oh no, no no, no, no. Oh no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no. They will not think I'm doing porn because it says Blair Shockey ankles down. No, no no. Hold that. Nobody's confused. Not Disney or my gosh. So then I was forced at gunpoint to take it out, to take it down after 24 hours. I was robbed the day. I said, oh, I'm sorry. I've been doing my part to prevent school What have you guys been doing? Yeah, I would have done Bella Thorne would have been crying now. The only thing I left is to show my feed on my Instagram, I miss you, I miss you, I she'll never We were all rocked. Oh, guys. I'm excited. My wife and I recently celebrated Thank you. Still early enough Appreciate it. She and I have an 18 year age My wife is 68 years old. So funny. I don't get it. No love knows no bounds. No. Of course she's 32. I'm progressive, Because of the age difference, situations Like, I remember when I first met My wife is the youngest of five. When I met her oldest brother, he sat me down to have, like, He's like, listen up. Take good care of her, okay? But he himself is ten years She she's like, yeah, I will, you'll all be taken care of. Because of the age difference, it's appropriate They'll say things like, dude, That means if you have a kid now, you're going to be 60. Yeah, I do know what 50 plus ten is. Thank you for that. I know that I wouldn't feel equipped Like, until you spoke up. My plan was to have the kid wait how old I was. My wife is very big on communication. She's always reading books, watching videos, Just a weird way of communicating. But her latest technique, I'll share with you If you have a negative thought, Sounds easy enough in theory, and halfway through my sentence, I don't think you're supposed to say It just hurts my feelings. You take on different roles in a marriage. In a relationship. My wife is taking it upon herself my ear hair situation, which I was completely But she's on it. We're sitting on the couch at night. I feel her inching closer and closer, and then she yanks a hair out of my ear She's like, bad, bad. I'm like, I'm twice your age. It's just biology. It is a very exciting time, though. My wife and I are expecting a baby Thank you, thank you. Oh, yes. That is our expectation. Whatever is growing in her We, We're very excited about that. I am a comedian. She is an artist. So we're hoping maybe the kid can offer us even for the short term. Really exciting. We haven't picked a name yet We're a nationality. I understand Canada has free health care. So we. We might make a special Christmas come back with an immigrant baby free of charge. I love America, but I also love free health care. So we've been discussing baby names. Right now. Our list is Logan, Kendall, If it's a girl, we're binge watching succession on HBO. So it could change in the next month. We'll see what we're watching. Late December very. At least it wasn't last month The list was Polly, Tommy and Amber. I'm a gold. But, you know, it's it's very exciting. I feel, somewhat anxious, My wife is, somewhat hormonal, you know, so I'm. I'm navigating that, figuring out versus when she wants to hear her opinion in my voice. I know it's not easy, friends. It's not easy for me. It's weird being the third It only has two people. So they're making a do folks life as we know it We have a very good thing going. My wife and I, we watch British crime No, no judgment if you like American. But we do. We prefer the British. Fine. It's much more British. We don't know what they're saying. We have to watch it with subtitles. But, we just feel more important Like, I don't know what's going on. I think they're in law enforcement. Who watch Broadchurch lose their line of duty. Great British Bake Off, which, strictly But I thought season and Brandon definitely deserved it. My wife and I play this ongoing game where, she adamantly insists that she does not want chips or chocolate in the house And then I go grocery shopping, and invariably I buy chips and chocolate because I like those things. And I know that she does as well. And she gets very angry. Says, I specifically told you I do not How do you do that? You seem very sorry. I won't happen again. And then later that night we're watching television and I feel her inching closer. I know 1 or 2 things were about to happen. Either she's going to yank a hair out of my ear or. Or she will mumble almost and audibly and well, And then I go into the kitchen and lay them out before her, little squirrel. And she's a this can never happen again. I'm like, you won't. But it will. It will happen again. And that's the way the game is played. But my wife, she is. You know, it's weird. It fluctuates. She's she's she's very, like, And then she takes a turn for the worse. You know, it's like, if I had a Yelp page, she would leave the most glowing reviews, Like the same username. People would be like, who is this woman? I'm like, yeah, I know, it's confusing. I live with her. She, she she is eight months pregnant, She's she's almost like the sheriff. Kicks the door open. You pick up the, cleaning supplies. We talked about your. Yeah, Sheriff, I don't want there to be any trouble, You, If. Yeah. No. I love being married. I love, living with my wife. She, She scares me a lot of times. I I've described marriage as, like, You know, that feeling but you're not sure exactly why? It's like that. Sometimes, Kind of seem like inconceivable sometimes. Like just arriving home. I startle her. She's in the midst of something. The other day, she was meditating, and I came home to where I live with her. And she yelled at me. She said, what are you doing? I was like, arriving home. She's like, I'm meditating. I'm like, I think you're doing it wrong. I love her very much. She and I do not sext one another. No judgment if you do, we just don't. Sex. What we do is we send one That's like our dirty talk You are a bad one. Let's go. Sharon. Or if we really want to get naughty, we'll send properties We're like 800,000. You are nasty. Who likes a big backyard? Who likes a back? You to I just I noticed you. When you buy a house, they're like So I've been reading articles about that. They tell you to ask certain questions. How long were the previous owners What repairs did they make? And then there was an article there's sex offenders in the neighborhood, which I didn't feel comfortable looking away, I do like I'd be like, babe, I don't want to be like, so, I want to get a handle on Like. Right now, we've been visiting people who already have kids. That's our plan for now, we went to visit another of her brothers. He and his wife have twin And, that almost pushed our timetable back to never. Wow, what an eye opener that was. Literally every morning, the twins and jump in the bed, We were like, oh, I guess this is It's adorable. The second day, they came through again at six. We just, pretended But undeterred, they slid under the bed the. The third day, we just packed up We had seen enough. So, am I equipped? I don't know if you know me. Ten minutes. Five minutes so far. What do you think? I am excited, you know? I mean, like, if I'm 50, if I'm not ready when's it going to happen? But it is exciting, you know, it's, Mostly because we were, trying and because I'd been experience Not the good kind. If there is such a thing, is there such a thing as good Doc, you got to help me. It's just direct all the time. It's getting to be an issue. No, mine were, Obviously, in your erections. You want them on demand, like your Wi-Fi? As many bars as possible. But last line had become intermittent. So I've been taking Viagra, But it does take some of the spontaneity It requires some planning. So I'll say, babe, I'm What is your next hour? Hour and a half look like? And does the thought of me erection factor I'm going to need a hard yes. Or a semi-soft. No. So sometimes, even with the planning, One time I said, babe, it's go time. She said, actually, Is it okay if we watch a movie instead? So then cut to me sitting on the couch with an erection singing. Perhaps there's something there There's something sweet. I was kind, he was mean. And he considering. It now he is sweet, handsome. Which is even better with an erection. I'm not doing it justice. The next level. Everybody experienced it differently depending on Like I remember when things first started we were watching the news and it was like Everybody in Spain Everybody in Florida was on spring break just whiling. I don't even know because they were at the club Yeah, fleshy, fleshy, fleshy and. And I was at home watching the news like Florida. What are you doing? You're embarrassing us. I remember when things started getting real serious, and they were like, Only essential employees. And first of all, let's give it up for any essential employees We thank you. We appreciate you. We are grateful for you. Whether you were in the E.R. or at Trader Joe's. It was a scary time. We didn't know what was happening. And you put that Hawaiian shirt on We appreciate that. It was an emergency. Anita mahoney. Sesame cashews. They said only essential employees can go to work. So in my mind, buildings, empty It did not compute in my brain Because I went to TJ Max and the doors were locked and I was like, what's this? This is a world pandemic. I was like, yeah, but at TJ Maxx, the. Isn't this essential? It is for me. Any other Max investors in the building tonight? Yes, Max. And he says we go to TJ Max It's just a part of our mental health day. We just want to go look at stuff and smell candles. I feel good at TJ Max knowing that anything I would ever need in life, Whatever you need. Do you want a new outfit We got you over here. You want some random spices over there by the lentil chips. You want some make up for 50% off? Yes, I do, it's probably seven years old, but it's Urban Decay for 399. By that point, it has urban decay all the way. It's as if TJ Max is saying, here, you throw this away. I love TJ Max, but they always get me at the end. And that zig zag register line right where they have all the last minute buys, all the things you didn't know I can be walking around in TJ Max I have two things in my cart. Then I start making my way By the time I get to the register, All right, here in the homestretch, oh, wow. Candles, coffee mugs, dog treats, slippers. Wow. And then the line starts moving too fast. You're like, wait, I didn't get to To I just want to smell that candle. Excuse me. Sorry about that. Oh, God. No, don't smell that. It's bad. Don't do it. Love, TJ. Max. The doors were locked. I couldn't get in. I tried. It's 2:00. The skin serious? A lot has changed since Covid. Globally, on a world scale, But even individually, in our own lives, in some way. Like, quit the gym. Quit their marriage. A lot of divorces in 2020, I didn't sign up for all this. Actually, you did. Till death do us part. Yeah, but every day, though. We had some changes happen for us as well. Like right in the beginning when everybody was losing work, my best And then what happened You know, we had said we didn't want kids, It's a blessing. They move in with us, and now we look like we have our own Because from the outside looking in, Two wives, like. I imagine when they first moved in, Her sister's moving in for a little while, they're probably like, and my friend that moved in. She's beautiful. Just a stunning human being. So people would message me and be like, having a beautiful woman And I was like, no, not even a little bit. Like, if anything, she She did, because like when she moved What do they call it? Try. I started trying. I started wearing clothes with zippers and buttons again. Hey, look at me go. I had to step my game up. Not because I was concerned I just didn't want the neighbors Her son, Elijah, in, and he's used to being parented who's doing the best she can Then they move in with us, and now He loves that part Penelope's his mom. She tells him what to do But if he doesn't listen, well, steps in till man Yes. And my role is I'm the snitch. Say, I want. I'm the one that's like. Oh, are you supposed to be That's interesting. I love Elijah, I'm very close with Elijah. I'm his godmother. I'm Nina, I've been in his life since day one. Literally the day he was born, I saw his head He wasn't ready. It was a long day. I love Elijah, we're very close. He's my godson. But something happened when they moved in. Our dynamics shifted And I realize we were both fighting for attention. He's used to having his mom's attention Then they move in with us and I'm like, We're going to hang out every day. So now I'm the thing in his way. But he's also the thing in my way. He doesn't have siblings, I don't have kids. I don't know how to share. So now we just bump heads. Sometimes with each other, but other times I snitch on Elijah, because we have security cameras and he didn't know this at the time, I got a notification on my phone. There is motion in the backyard, What's this? And it's him talking to his mom I'll tell you guys Give you a little bit of backstory. He had just popped off at So I was like, okay, me too. So she took him in the backyard to ward You can't be giving an attitude I missed the beginning By the time I click on it, all I hear Well, why does Nina got to be sarcastic? And little does for this house. So you're welcome. But now I have to chime in on my camera speaker. Oh, yeah. I'm sarcastic. That hurt your feelings. Nina stops being sarcastic. You start being homeless. I have an incredibly settled home life. Right? And it's nice, And the other day She's much cooler than me, And she said, oh, so Andy and Jack I'm in a throuple and for I said, Connor and I I went home that night, He's reading the latest history. It's on Moneysavingexpert.com. And I was like, Conor, could do you think, can we maybe get a new boyfriend You are? Which one of your bohemian friends What do you want? To be in a brothel for a while? Well, maybe then you'd have someone because I hate her. He went far. I've told you, stop asking me TV You have this idea of yourself that love shagging, when really, having dinner and cuddling. Oh, and. Okay. Can we get a cat? Can we get a cat and not fuck it? Just a pet cat. When people talk about compromise relationship, that's You start off with high aspirations. Throttle three ways at the top I like dogs, they were going, okay. Anyway, I thought, I can criticize Arlene Foster I've had a few women and Marty myself, and last time I did it during a stand up I felt like really nervous but everyone started clapping me They were very progressive for being brave. Fuck off man, it's only That's thinking everyone I went to school was and see she's just doing this because it's hep star. It's And I'm a vegetarian, And that's how your mum and dad found out They saw me talking about it on telly. Imagine that's well oh that is, that's me Fengran. An unbelievably to all lady. My mum phoned me up to ask me about it and she asked me about it the way only a Scottish Catholic about ten minutes of the phone call. It was just a series of disconnected Hello friend, I made a carrot cake today. Then I went to simple. Then I picked sweet peas in the garden. And then there was a terrible pause She went there. I got my six year old. Imagine if that was how Holly Willoughby asked Phillip Schofield. The Scottish way, I was like, yeah, And you told me it was disgusting No I didn't, how dare you? Anyway, because I seen the musical Kinky Boots. And that changed everything. Isn't that amazing? The art can move people and profound ways. One of Broadway's shortest musicals can keep us turned. My mum from being a homophobe not to be a homophobe. And I go, I was women, They're always quite intense. They're always fucking men on. And, I really judge men who say that I think it's quite misogynistic. So can I just say, at this point and I'm in a hospital, so she was, you're diagnosed? We both were. It was a great match. Her name was real. She was a tiny little skinhead. But we were both 16 year You know how it goes in your teens. You need Sylvia Plath. You go in a mental hospital. V, I used to write me these love letters that would open with things like, And all of Liverpool's take care of them. That's the Brady. Who makes the best potato prance about our feelings on first days were nurse Linda. Oh that's right, that's good. And then there was a terrible drawing of some palm And it said, across group therapy I can see the sun sitting on a bench. And it's all because of. Oh that's right, what a cracking lover I am. Sorry. Oh, it's given me this wonderful necklace. Along with a letter. The necklace was a very classy necklace Oh, good. Some scum get this. Posh people of Glasgow. Elizabeth Argos was a range of jewelry people could express earnest emotions. Fantastic price. V, I gave me this necklace. It said something on it. Like love lasts forever. Henry as voice And my mum found the letter when I was 16 and she went nuts at me. She was like, this is disgusting. This is vile. I was mortified, like, well, I guess this It was in a manual unit on the street. I like how non-judgmental you guys are about, And women's psychiatric units, you learn a single tongue, and you learn to play pool Then mum stopped shouting at me what upsets me the most is you would pretend to like other girls Excuse me. I know you guys know what's going on. At that point, I thought he's the type of person and then they tell themselves any story My mum's one of those. My mum would rather tell herself a story in which I am a jewelry thief running some sort of a heist. Not for good diamonds, Elizabeth Jessica Argyle. Stand by fingering girls against my will. That. All is part of the grand jury thief heist and a mental hospital. But you see how happens. Because the other thing. When I was a kid. Code section 28, where Margaret primary school kids that LGBT how against boys or how elect fannies, I'm not saying this to try and be right, when they ban teach I look back and think, that my teachers taught me where there was a crucifix There too, the art teacher told us Jesus died on. Which Jesus wants it all. Why is this final resting place? Scotland's? I used to like to do this in class I just move my head to the side And my teacher said, you know, if and that's all well and good, the skull, and it gradually comes loose, it is that your brain will collapse The teachers are maniacs. I had the best year of my primary school When I was eight years Curran. Mr. Curran was drunk after a child that doesn't register. You just think, why is this adult more fun Didn't So I was on the carpet and told us stories And the worst. And one day he sat us all down Well, I was walking I found something very special and he had a shoe box in his lap. No. He just went, oh, God, I don't know what kind of school but that's often the point. And the story really is like, as no second picture is. Get your mind out that our. Because something beautiful is that I found a little badger. I swear to God, he opened the shoe box. I know about your comment. So beautiful. Greatest thing that had happened Every day for a year. Didn't do any arithmetic, didn't do Stilton, a bow with a badger and a box. One day he said, listen, kids, I'm You can take care of yourself. Well, I'm down the pub. Do not get Mr. Badger as books. He's a wild animal. I'll get him when I come back. I was a very good cat. I never broke the rules. However, I sat next They're definitely unpleasant now. And I said to them, I love having Master Badger in class. I think he's the best thing Leigh and Kevin turned to me and said, this is hard to say. They said, that's that's not a badger. That's a fucking puppet in a box. You're funny. Do you know in The Matrix, when you find real, isn't there? Oh, I felt my vision go black again. Start spinning it. Oh, man. I'm shaking my head uncontrollably. No, no, no, man. Reliving the past year of my life. Looking at Mr. Badger is very real. Eyes hanging out with him every day. I said, guys, I'm a I'm not stupid. That's a real badger. I said, don't No, I wouldn't normally do this, but I'll go to the front of the class And I'm sure you always will be. When you're a fucking spoon. If left, don't go away. There's no way of translating that. Well, into the front of the class, took all my strength to open it Look, there's 100% a glove It's deadly. The whole school knew. Except for me. If you think my comedy's dark and cynical, all hope died. I. And this still would teach The LGBT people are real. I spent a year talking about ya. This doesn't exist. A week after this, I overheard our art teacher, telling one of the other teachers, Oh yes, they let go of Jim It turns out he was drinking and those two boys from earlier And when I fell. And guess what? We saw him walking his dog and tone. It's got four legs. It's less than they felt like doing it. People in power just like it. I think people are getting more progressive on sexuality, come into my shoulders of seeing sexuality as a spectrum, And I said to my boyfriend, now, people view it this way. Could you be anywhere else And he answered really earnestly, I thought about it, I want to suck a dick. I was like, oh no, no one likes to suck a dick. It's just the polite thing to do. Look, America was never great, There were periods where it was There was more, we were trying to be kinder, more equal rights for everybody. And, and I think if America then we need to build a time machine and go back and kill the person responsible for the mess I will do it, and I understand Once you use the time machine, then you've altered the space time and the time machine can't exist anymore, But I'll do it. I will, I will go back I'll do it. I'll do it for you. I'll do it for all the kids out there. And I'm not going to go to, like, when he was 30, as I understand. You know, dude was cut and, had like a 12 man so I wouldn't go there and and I certainly wouldn't go to you know, the, the Immaculate Conception And, I think that's a little unseemly we really don't know anything Literally from the day after he was born, up until he was like 30.5, right? We don't know anything about, We know, you know, sullen, mopey, you know, covered in acne, hormones Just emo. Jesus. Just, you know, the school's a prison. You know? Right. Constantly jerking off. Right? Constantly. 14 year old boys jerk off And Jesus is no different. And, you know, There was no lotion. So 14 year old Jesus dick That had been left And and then discovered But it. Yeah. So, and we all know the the story about the, you know, immaculate conception, right. That's heartwarming story. But God implanted his seed into the Virgin Mary, right? So he could give us his son. Right? God took his seed. His come seed is come. That's what his seed is. Come. That's what he. So God took his come and he put it in the Virgin Mary. And here's the thing. Here's the thing. He's everyone's God. He's everyone's got some way to figure out which come because he's got literally thousands So he had to go, oh, which come am Should it be, Indonesian or Nordic or Mayan or Aboriginal or Namibian or Incan or Arapaho or. You know what I'll go with you Yeah. That's good. Come. That's good. Come. And then God took his come. And he's God's way in the heavens. He's he's all the way in outer space. And he had to take his all the different, And it had to he sent it all the way, an eternal temperature of 98.6degF, right? Otherwise the cum would degraded. And so he had to, like, You know, it had to go through different, galaxies and solar systems And then it got found our solar system, and asteroids and space dust and always, again, maintaining They get it to Earth and it goes through because God loves atmosphere. So he gave his whole bunch exosphere and the thermosphere and the mesosphere and the stratosphere and then wait for the opportune time up it went. And because Mary is a human woman, she went through and where she grew Jesus in and, and then God sent the angel Gabriel to Joseph and Mary to explain what was happening and to say, you have to go to Bethlehem. Okay. Either to be counted for the census It's a little vague, and historians but we need to get you for for the sake of the story, Okay? It's called a writer's device. So we need either to for the census It doesn't matter. You need to go to Bethlehem, and then, Gabriel went back up Joseph put Mary on on their donkey. Dinklage. That was the name of the donkey. Joseph, Mary and tinkles and donkey. They went to Bethlehem and we all know this part of the story. They got to, they got to the end in Bethlehem. The in singular. There's only one. They got to the end, So they had to sleep in the manger. Now, here's a question. 2023 years ago, what was the difference between a room at the inn and the manger? There's no difference. There's no difference. You're still sleeping on You know, the act like it's an Airbnb No. It's a I'm sure that when the innkeeper told Joseph you'll have to Some fucking fresh air for once, you know. And so they got to the major and they they laid down on the hay. And then Mary started going into labor. They started timing her contractions And then. And she's about to give birth It is. There's a little She's going to give birth, Joseph. It's time. And Jesus is coming in and there's. But he's not coming out. He's not what's happening? And he's trying to get out, And here's But when God implanted Mary with his come, he forgot to do something that's He forgot to fuck Mary, so her hymen remained intact. So Jesus is ready to come out. But it's there's this wall of flesh and kicking and screaming and crying And then it's traumatic. I mean, ask any Scientologist It'll scar you for billions of lives. And, I mean, it messed him up good. He gave him a messiah complex and and then and so Mary sussed out I'm going to get back on vehicles, see if I can knock. She tore him it came back. And then she laid down and she started. She laid down and she started to And then it's here comes You I mean, you got a Jewish woman Come on. It's a massive, hairy bush. And here comes Jesus. And and he's and he's covered in placenta. There's a little bit of blood because that's also part When you give birth you lose control of your bowels It happens. There's shit. So here comes the Lord and Savior And and they they clean them off with some And then. So I would All right. And, I would dress appropriately I would bring something You know, I'd be like, hey, It's a it's a Furby. I would take Jesus. Hey, kiddo. Coming out, I want to I want to take you down to the river Hi. So, listen, kiddo, listen, so this is, very important for me to say. And very, very important for you to hear. I want you to know this, okay? You are a beautiful person You live your life in a clean, honest way You're about kindness love, unconditional love. You're about diversity, equity and inclusion. All right. And this is not about you, okay? This is about your fans every word you say twist it for their own And everything they do to everything you ever preached They look and and they millions of people in your name But more why in your name? You know what? All right. Chicago. Thank you, thank you, thank you guys.