[Music] With the Ukrainian War as a turning point, there is a growing sense of wariness not only against Russia but also against China in the world, and in Japan as well, concerns about an invasion of Taiwan and the issue of the Senkaku Islands are being discussed, and the importance of national defense is finally beginning to be recognized. Japan, surrounded by the sea, is strategically the most important submarine of the Maritime Self-Defense Force Oyashio-class Soryu-class. [Music] First of all , the Oyashio-class submarine has the longest history among the three guards. By the way, the term &quot;normally powered submarine&quot; came to be used after the appearance of nuclear submarines, and the Oyashio-type engine is equipped with a diesel engine and a storage battery.The construction period was from 1994 to 2008, with a total of 11 submarines. was built.The shape of the space between was revamped from the global Shuncho type, and a cigar type is adopted instead of the conventional type adopted.In terms of hydrodynamic rationality, it is the conventional type. Although it is slightly inferior, it is said that there is not much difference at the low speed that normal power submarines operate, and after Oyashio is difficult, it is a cigar type. In addition, the Oyashio class incorporated many new innovations such as improved stealth and the installation of a new sonar, and was described as one of the achievements of submarines at the time. The development of the Oyashio class was originally triggered by the deployment of p3C patrol planes in the Maritime Self-Defense Force. This was later called the P3C Shock, but the p3C patrol with excellent submarine detection capabilities. The aircraft dramatically improved its air combat capabilities, and in the Maritime Self-Defense Force exercise of the same year, it was an unexpected situation for the submarine unit, such as being detected and destroyed even when the submarine dived to a deep position and stopped the propulsion aircraft. This incident made the submarine force aware that reducing underwater radiation noise was a top priority and spurred the development of the Oyashio Current. The Maritime Self-Defense Force aimed to improve its detection capabilities by calling for more stealth prior to the p3C shock. Research and development is underway, and it will be the global version of the Oyashio-class, Harushio- class . Construction of a next-generation submarine that has been studied in parallel and quieter For the purpose of responding to the change, it was decided to shift to the Oyashio class, which is a new type of speed and speed.The next successor to the Oyashio class was the Soryu class . A total of 12 submarines were built from 2005 to 2021. The major difference from the global Oyashio type is the installation of the standby dependence system aip. There are various types of standby dependent systems, but their purpose is to extend the lead time . However, in addition to the diesel engine, the Soryu type is equipped with a device called a standby dependent system, which allows it to generate power without oxygen supply from the atmosphere. Because it is possible to continue diving, it is theoretically unnecessary to float and snorkel high school, which are considered the most dangerous for submarines, while sailing with the non-standby dependent system. In actual operation, it is not necessary to levitate at all to take in air.In addition, it is necessary to replenish fuel, so it is not possible to leave it mog all the time like a carefully selected system. There are several types of methods, but the mechanism used by the Maritime Self-Defense Force submarines is to install liquid oxygen in advance in the building and vaporize it to obtain oxygen and the combustion heat of kerosene, which is the fuel, into the cylinder. The so-called Stirling engine drives the piston by repeatedly expanding the helium gas inside and compressing it by cooling the seawater. However, since it is only used as an auxiliary power source, the engine output is low and can only be used at low speeds to save energy. Therefore, when it is necessary to demonstrate high speed , diesel engines are used as usual. By using a hybrid of diesel engine power generation and Stirling engine power generation, it has become a submarine that has both speed and long lead time . is getting worse, and the non-wait dependent system has been abolished in the 1112th section of the Soryu type. As for the big difference above, from 10 o'clock, the complete fire has changed to X type. Conventionally, when changing the course of intuition, we adopted a cross-shaped fire by horizontal strikes that control the left and right direction and vertical and up and down. On the other hand, the Soryu type adopts an X stroke with these rudders tilted 45 degrees each, and all four rudders are in charge of up, down, left, and right roles . Even if the is damaged, it can be stored with the other three, so it has excellent redundancy, and it also has the advantage that the screen is less likely to be damaged even when you are sitting on the bottom and focusing your eyes . is the latest conventional submarine that started operation in 2022. Construction will start in 2017, and a total of 6 submarines are scheduled to be built by 2027. The appearance of the intuition is almost the same as that person, but the internal structure of the hull is The air-dependent system, which was the centerpiece of all 9 Soryu models , has been abolished in the retreat model. The main reason why the non-standby dependent system was necessary until now is that the capacity of the lead-acid battery for moving the screw is small, so it was necessary to generate electricity with the non-standby dependent system and charge the storage battery even during navigation. With the completion of the battery, it became possible to secure more battery capacity, and the standby dependent system ended its role.As a result, the living space that had deteriorated in the Soryu type was improved, and the work of female SDF personnel was secured, such as securing a female bedroom. In addition, new technology has been adopted to improve quietness and impact resistance compared to those in the hall by mounting the equipment in the hall on a stand called mysterious.In addition to that, the new model The adoption of sonar has also improved detection capabilities [Music] In recent decades, China has been promoting large-scale expansion and modernization of its navy, and currently has three aircraft carriers, a large destroyer that is classified as a cruiser. 8 ships, 30 main destroyers, also known as Chinese Aegis, more than 100 frigates and corvettes combined, 3 amphibious assault ships, 70 submarines, etc. The only country that can compete with China in terms of numbers is the United States . Under such circumstances, Japan's continued possession of high-performance submarines will be an effective deterrent against China . Currently, there are frequent cases of activities beyond the single island chain. At present, detection networks in Japan and the United States have been able to grasp almost all of these Chinese activities, and in particular , it seems that it is relatively easy to detect Chinese submarines because they are said to be noisy during their activities. In China, new submarines are constantly being built, so it is said that quietness is gradually improving.In addition, the activity of survey ships in the waters near Japan is becoming active, so the submarine high school needs to improve the seafloor topography. Since it is believed that they are gathering information, preparations are steadily being made to expand their range of activities both at sea and under water. hard to find It is said that when China causes a problem, it is necessary to consider the existence of Japanese submarines, which can be a great deterrent.As I explained in another video, in the future, Japan will equip submarines with the vls vertical launch system. We have decided to build a cruise missile launch type demonstrator.At the present stage, it is just a demonstrator, but if a submarine equipped with vls is deployed in combat in the future, it will have the ability to counterattack with cruise missiles. In terms of deterrence, it will have a greater meaning Well, actually having a nuclear weapon is the best, but if you don't mind, please subscribe to the channel and click the bell mark to set notifications [music]