(Vincenzo speaking Italian) - Hi and welcome to, - Vincenzo's Plate - Oh yeah, today we are in Rome. - [Paola] Roma. - The capital of Italy, the eternal city. One of the most beautiful - Yes - Paola is a truly Roman who The pasta that comes from Rome. What pasta is it? - [Paola] Carbonara - Pasta carbonara. It comes from Rome and today to make the real carbonara. We are at Hotel Marcella From this terrace we can St. Peter's, not far from the Colosseum, not far from the Spanish steps. Beautiful terrace, beautiful room and beautiful Roman people working here. - (laughs) Thank you - And today I have the I'm cooking carbonara for Paola and the members of the Marcella Royal. Paola (speaking Italian) - Yes you should. (laughs) - (laughs) I am scared but I'm showing you how to make the authentic that you can make again for your friends. Okay carbonara, an important rule. Never, never, never put cream. DO you know why? You go to the restaurant because carbonara is a dish and eat straight away. If you wait too long before So the cream avoids that. It's easier for the chef It's a no no, carbonara with cream. Please don't make carbonara with cream. Okay the first thing to do to cook the pasta. Get a large pot like this one, and then you need a nice Look at that, nice amount of rock salt. Ooh, wow. Now the question is what pasta Well, spaghetti. Spaghetti is the classic pasta It's a dry spaghetti, but a big size of spaghetti. I think it absorbs the eggs better. Another pasta you can use is rigatoni. Oh I've seen some chefs Avoid other pastas, no don't use egg pasta. And don't use tagliatelle, pappardelle. Just doesn't go well with the carbonara. The carbonara likes spaghetti, okay. So I'm cooking the spaghetti, for, this needs to be cook Always read the packet with the spaghetti, and see you soon babies. See you very soon, okay. Okay, so once the pasta You get the guanciale. This is guanciale, pig cheek. It's a beautiful piece of meat. It's cured. How you say this, eh? - [Woman] Cured. - Cured and you basically, to cure this the flavors you put inside are garlic, sage and rosemary. Cured for a few months and you get a beautiful strong flavor. You get enough fat in there that you need in the pan If you can't find guanciale, which is the pork belly If you use bacon, it doesn't so you get a different flavor and it doesn't give you Usually you should be able but we are in Rome and that's So we cut the skin, okay. There we go, and then we want to cut the guanciale 'cause once the guanciale's So I'm cooking 300 grams of and I'm using 150 grams of guanciale, about 50 grams per person. Look how beautiful this is See, I'm cutting the guanciale this size. Okay so the pasta is cooking, now we need to cook the guanciale. So, we turn the cook top on a medium heat, you put the pan on top and then you want to start adding the guanciale inside so when the pan is still cold okay. You don't the pan to be too hot. And what we do is we bring and then we cook the guanciale slowly. We cook it slowly because we don't want to burn the guanciale. If you burn the guanciale, the carbonara is not gonna taste nice. Yes, you want the guanciale crispy but you also want the Now this, this fat that you see is gonna So this fat will turn into oil and that oil is what gives See it's slowly cooking. Look at the oil over there, I'm slowly cooking the guanciale and the oil comes out slowly, slowly. Can you see the oil over there? Can you see it? Sometimes you might of extra virgin olive oil. Not all the time. Sometimes I like to add it, but look we have a top Look how much oil we have Now over here we're The cream for the carbonara. I'm using four eggs. So I normally use, personally me, one egg for 100 grams of pasta, okay, which is pretty much for one person. So one egg one person, I'm making three hundred grams of pasta so three eggs plus an extra egg. I always add an extra egg on top. That's how I do it. In Rome the question is, or you only use the yolk? Who knows which one is right? Some Romans say only the yolk. Some Romans say we use the entire egg because in the old days You use the whole egg. Why would you through away the rest? In the modern days, most to use only yolks, but I'm So we break the egg and we make the cream for One egg, two eggs, three eggs, and the fourth egg is here. Yum. And then we mix it with a fork. Nice red color, beautiful organic eggs and now we are going to add pecorino. Now the question is, is pecorino a cheese I can find anywhere? Yes, you can. Grate your pecorino, pecorino is very strong, you because the salt is there. In the modern days yes, you you can mix it with Parmesan. I like Parmesan, I like It's up to you, but again and I'm using 200 grams of pecorino. Okay, so now put the pecorino in the mix. Yum. And a lot of pepper, If you don't put pepper in the carbonara my Roman Got plenty of pepper and now we mix. So now I want to get a cream out of this. Look how creamy it is already, look. That's why you wanna use the entire egg. Look at this, look how This is a carbonara cream and a lot of pecorino. So the guanciale is We switch off, it's very But we want to keep the pan nice and hot. The pasta is ready on this side. See the pasta is been and now we want to take the Oh yes, baby. And look what's happening with the pasta. You want some water in there because the pasta water Now the pasta needs to sit We want to get here some more water, about one full spoon of pasta water and we put it in there with the eggs. And this is what is happening now. I'm mixing the cream. Now the water, the pasta water helps to combine the ingredients together. The parmigiano will Look at this. Now what do we do now? Turn on the cooktop again, very very low. Very low, you can't make mistakes now. Very low. Add more pasta water in there, okay. So we have the pasta water at the bottom. Very, very low and now is the moment where I'm adding the cream. Look what's happening now guys, Look at this, Suzanne, look at this. See this cream? This wonderful cream now needs to mix. But you wanna be fast. You don't want to create no scrambled eggs. Mix it fast. The water will help not to but look how creamy this is. Suzanne, look how creamy this is. Look how creamy the carbonara is. Keep mixing it and the reason why we have the cook top on low is because when we see that we know we're ready to serve okay. This way guys. to making it not scrambled? - [Vincenzo] Well you put I put water just before So can you see I'm still mixing it here. Can you see? Can you see the pasta Can you see I have no scrambles in there? Can you see? - [Vincenzo] I have plenty of cream? I didn't use any cream, Suzanne. This is all natural. Eggs, water, pecorino cheese, and pepper. So look, you think it's ready to serve? We're ready to serve? - [Suzanne] Almost. - [Vincenzo] Huh? Look at that. Look how fantastic this is. Can you see now the bottom here, can you see we have little - [Suzanne] Yum. - [Vincenzo] Yeah, I know. You know what this means? One more minute and we can serve (speaking Italian) Switch off now, switch it off. Look how creamy this is. Look at that, but now this pasta you need to serve it straight away guys. Look how creamy this is, Paola. Look how this carbonara is Paola. Look how creamy this carbonara is. - [Paola] Looks perfect. - [Vincenzo] Oh look at Yum yum. Finish it off with pepper. Perfect. (speaking Italian) - A real carbonara - We're in Rome, oh wow. - Very good - And now is the moment to the director. The director of the Hotel Marcella Royal. (speaking Italian) - Thank you Vincenzo.(speaking Italian) - [Vincenzo] Pepper, lots of pepper. You like more pecorino? - Yes. - [Vincenzo] More picorino? - Yes. - Whoa. Lets see if I can sleep here tonight. - (laughs) Otherwise under the bridge. - Mmmm. - Mmmm. Delicious. - Approved? - Yes! Creamy, tasty. - Mmm. (speaking Italian) - Oh thank you, thank you Paola. - You can sleep here (laughter). - Yay! Okay so need to try this Ah, put a little bit more pepper yeah. Creamy. Mmm. Mmm. Creamy, soft, add more pepper, It's a nice rich pasta Now this is how you make approved by Romana. Approved? - Approved - Yeah yeah thumbs up? Fantastic. - So thank you so much from Marcella Royal Hotel here in Roma. Best place to be in Rome. - Thank you. - We'll see you in the next video recipe. E ora si mangia! - Vincenzo's Plate. - Carbonara approved by Romans. (trumpet music)