Today we're going to look at Egyptian fractions worked base 10, like we do. So they had symbols; So their symbol for the number 1 is this So if they wanted to say 2, they combine two of which I believe is called a cattle hobble, which I to slow them down. I looked into it, don't really a far more interesting use of it. For 100 - and now way around - but I think it's this way and it's a someone will correct me if it's not. For 1,000 this got to use my art GCSE; it is the water lily. For and that's a bent finger. Okay, bent finger. 100,000? of is tadpoles; so this is a tadpole. And now putting my art skills to use. A million is Heh. Now Heh a million also kind of just means an eternal or in cultures that we have things like this. Umm actually is meant to mean infinity and a bit more. meaning that number or infinity, is actually not hieroglyphs for powers of 10; and if you wanted to, you would do is you would write two 10s and a 3. to fractions; um I'm going to be talking about - I'm So there is actually evidence that fractions were Papyrus called the Rhind Mathemathical Papyrus. um when fractions were all done by having a mouth you might say this, and what this would be is with this we can only get numbers- fractions with exceptions um to this; so we can have 2/3, which half for some reason is different. But aside from a question, how is this useful? What happens if we have say 5/6? Well 5/6 is going to be just a this. Now with Egyptian fractions, which is what different. Should we try another one? 15/36 is going equal to a 1/12. So so far looks like we can do it. I want to introduce you to the greedy algorithm. to say p is not 1 - because we know if p is 1 greedy algorithm looks at the largest 1/n such taking away this 1/n. What do we know about this? is less than this. So we'll end up with pn - q write an expression for n as well, we could write it's the smallest integer above this fraction. Ah! the greatest for which this is true. Cos what this 1/(n-1). So we've said that this is going to be they're the same thing, that's less than this, hence multiply this out and then we get that for example in we get that pn - q is strictly less than we've started with p/q, we've taken away 1/n, we'll call it p1/q1 such that p1 is less we could just say that p/q is 1/n plus p1/q1. repeat this process. So we can then say that, okay n, that we get p1/q1 it's greater than 1 just repeat. And then we'll end up with p1/q1 that 0 is less than p2 is less than p1. We can Plus then this will be p2/q2. And again if So this is why it's called an algorithm, it's up having is 0 is less than pr for some r is these are all integers, these are all positive one of these is eventually- we're going to have to they're all going to be different as well. Hence But yeah eventually we're going to get a pr that 1/n + 1/n1 plus plus 1 over...then qr. And we're going so this greedy algorithm means that there is cool thing that I want to share with you. Because where we took the biggest 1/n so n was n was slightly cheat, and instead use the n is q/p equals- well here q/p, it's 1 over 1. So half. And then what we're going to do with our half, 2, 2 over 1 + 1 is 3. So it's a 1/2 plus a 1/3. this algorithm we get a 1/2 plus 1/3 plus- it'd be a as well, because here if at any point we truncate 1 for that many that many terms. So 1/2 is 1. 1/2 plus 1/3 is the Egyptian fraction plus 1/7 is the Egyptian fraction with three I love that there are so many courses Look here, I've spotted this recent edition on typical fashion it's quirky, well designed, I'm doing. All the courses, the quizzes, the content to learn. It doesn't feel like education it just- time. If you haven't already, you might want to good stuff. Or perhaps give the gift of Brilliant subscription. What a great and unexpected journey, Brilliant has something for everyone - math, has a free 30-day trial so you can go and give a 20% discount on their subscription by going on the screen and I'll also put a link in the supporting Numberphile. You might be looking at that and thinking get there, but first we need to rewind a bit super factorials. Now I know regular Numberphile