Calling me a criminal and a pirate? I'm not like that. I'm a General Fighter in the Niger Delta. What we see and the reality is that the Niger Delta You know they can stop it. You know it, but they're all hungry. They're part of the business. The export lines are the targets. The refineries are the targets. The filling stations are the target. Nigeria. One hundred and fifty million inhabitants, more than 7,000 kilometers of pipelines, and an annual income A vast underground wealth It all began in 1956, The Nigerians Today, they're living The oil exploited is a symbol of repression, On February 4th, 2011, just two days we read in the press that one has given the authorities an ultimatum. His name is John Togo, and he's threatening to blow up I managed to reach him by telephone. Why do you intend to resume attacks? First, it's to draw the attention We're going to attack the oil facilities. If the corporations we'll start kidnapping. Togo's men have set up camp I suggest that we meet. The military surveillance The area I don't want you to be attacked I can't vouch for your life. Since November 2010, the fighting has intensified On December 1st, military helicopters bombarded close to the guerrilla's camp. As we try to organize we decide to visit this village. Our guide's name is Enaibo, There's a gunboat there. When you get there, If you want to go anywhere, raise your hands, That is what they do because of the crisis When it's 7:30, You're not allowed That place is out of bounds and people We don't want We're very scared. After just half an hour, Discretion is called for Where are you going? -To Ayakoromo. -Where have you come from? Take your hat off. Good afternoon. Every quarter of an hour, At the third, we have to turn around. Enaibo's village We could never land there. As a testimony to the army's attack here, The bombings killed 11 people The Niger Delta Even though there are no oil pipelines the checkpoints are still there There are all sorts of extortions going on Imagine a local villager going from one town to another on a daily basis That's completely unacceptable. What are the reasons that have led As we wait to meet the rebels, I decide to begin The trees I can see from my window, hide the biggest oil slick A pipeline leak occurred on the site After a 45-minute drive we reached the scene of the disaster On Friday, You can see that these are planting farms. The farms are very close. These are farming environments. What we're seeing here Sometimes, we do experience genuine spills and sometimes it's a result of sabotage. You can see that If you go further, you'll see more of it. For some ten years, committed by the foreign companies With these people, If you see my community now, and no way to survive now. Do you see this road? We have the right to have a road No lights or anything. Go to the other side Do you also suspect that contractors They are because there's no negotiation We suspected that this is a business We need roads and we need hospitals. We need roads It's okay. The history of black gold here when the first well was dug, barely ten kilometers away On each site, Morris takes water samples. Analysis has revealed contains 165 times the quantity which in the long run and Alzheimer's disease. Before Shell arrived, but the oil industry Witness this river of crude oil The environment speaks for itself. When they say the Niger Delta environment is the most polluted this is a very typical example. Fire is still on every water resource It has been polluted. The environment Like all oil companies, Agip is obliged the Nigerian National Oil Company. Equally responsible they both also share the profits. The federal government That's what we know. However, we identify Agip, All that is written. The community will identify and tell you What we know is in business with the oil companies, That's why the government because their business holdings Every year for 25 years, has been the equivalent Agip, Shell, and Chevron set up Without the authorization of the JTF, it's impossible to approach Our request was denied, but we bypassed the military blockades Our contact is to meet us with a speedboat We're trying to beat The route from here to my community that have been placed We're passing through the Ondo Road, but I'm thinking that maybe whom we're indirectly fighting. Whatever they're doing now That's the way I look at it. Tsekelewu, Midwest's hometown is located just a few miles On arriving, we comply Midwest introduces us to the elders The negotiation is over. We follow the riverbank. Before Chevron arrived, an important economic resource Today, everything has disappeared. Saltwater came in as a result of the white minerals When they opened, Saltwater came in and destroyed There's no solid soil anywhere. This has left all the elderly As you can see, Except Patience. To eke out a living, she sells water she fetches every morning four kilometers away. We have to fetch the water It's all we can get today. Before the companies arrived, We could drink it. They've polluted it. We're forced into drinking water For a 20-liter canister, and yet they say the water is impure The hospital is too far. My son is sick. -Is it because of the water? -Is there a doctor? -A real doctor. No doctors. It's too far and certainly too expensive. We take advantage of the dawn light to get closer Chevron knows When you get to the NPCC, there are areas It's just like They don't want this story After just 24 hours here, the military The game of cat and mouse starts over. Midwest tells us that a Navy patrol is on the lookout We slip through two surveillance rounds where a local villager is to escort us. We hike the last few kilometers on foot Caution is vital. We mustn't alert Afari. What's happening here? They're fetching water. They're fetching water. This is the only water we can drink. This water is not good. This is the water This is the place Not far away, a flare stack Do you see the gas flaring? They told us there'll be no gas flaring Today, you can see there's gas flaring From 1992 until now. When this gas is flaring up, That black smoke is over our heads, you can see some black particles You cannot drink it You can see there's no land. In fact, everywhere we're dying. We're dying. No fish or anything whatsoever. We're dying. Pollution, devastation. The hopes created are ancient history. In the Niger Delta today, and yet the country exports at $100 a barrel. Where does the money go? The revenue from oil generated from oil exploration according to the statistics, is benefiting maybe For the people of the Niger Delta, The Nigerian government built a brand-new, swanky state federal capital and it's there for everyone to see. It was built with oil money, but you'll also see Billionaires, Government officials One of these politicians is the Governor responsible for 1.7 million inhabitants and oil revenues of hundreds of millions An important man, for whom the army deploys around 30 men His name is Timipre Sylva. When production is at its peak, we earn something like a billion but maybe about $800 million in a year. Right now, About the pollution, Yes, in fact, because I believe that you have to look We'll probably be to guarantee uninterrupted power supply. We also decided to work and we've been able to supply water, We also decided to tackle because we felt We decided to build you can ever find in Nigeria. It's almost an insult to the people. I think that, for a governor like Timipre Sylva, who's been in power That's enough time to show the people, through the revenues he has collected what he can do for them. Does Timipre Sylva represent That will be a bit too simplistic. I would say that he's not alone. It's a system. It's a patronage system. In Nigeria, oil has, therefore, Five hundred million while his population Caroline runs a movement indigenous to the southern Delta regions. What we're going to see now That's what we'll see. They refine in a local way. Crude oil is very dangerous. It explodes. Sometimes people die. The way to do it That's not a refinery, In this village, bunkering has become A lucrative activity that's vital How many liters of crude oil -Seven cans. Yes, containing 20 liters of crude oil. When you've obtained the fuel, what do you do with the residue? The residue is tar. You throw the tar away Yes, but tell them they'll see all that Okay, all right. The community's refinery less than a kilometer away It was built on the land After being stolen, It's then pumped to these tanks The petrol will then be sold Six petrol boilers work in shifts They're producing 10,000 liters a day. -Of fuel? -Is it very dangerous? Sometimes it even catches fire. This whole place is bushy. The bush sometimes catches fire. Sometimes, You cannot tell or how they'll manage their lives. What's happening here is going to make in this situation, you'll see that the effect I feel really bad. Even inside my mind. I'm very ill. Every day, the sun and the fire is eating. It's very disturbing to my heart. There are no jobs. I just manage for the moment. Are you crying? Why are you crying? Fire is burning us. We go to the hospital and some people die. We spend a lot of money. See my back. Life expectancy in Nigeria For these people, for a reward of just EUR100 a month. Throughout the Delta, the riverbanks are darkened The federal government and the army but they're still here. The JTF is everywhere. They're everywhere. Whenever they meet them, That's what I'm telling you. If the JTF wants to raid everywhere you know they can stop it. You know it, but they're all hungry. They're part of the business. They come, They're part of it. They say that the oil Don't forget that we have other resources We have cocoa and granite. They have minerals but right now, as I'm talking to you, Everybody now depends on oil alone. Like I said, I keep asking the question, when the oil is finished, A military convoy for a Total executive. After four months of negotiations, the French oil company has opened We head for the Akpo platform, Total's biggest. Terry Bourgeois is in charge Our visit takes place a communications officer, One hundred and fifty people work on Akpo, Apart from management, Comments are strictly controlled. What interests Terry Bourgeois Total produces equivalent to about 10% Looking towards 2015 and 2016, Numbers and more numbers. Almost enough to make us forget that seven French expats were kidnapped in October 2010 A few months ago, against the oil installations Things have come down since then neither us nor colleagues or other operators When this kind of incident happens, If the oil companies it's because for the past 20 years, the oil money has not been distributed and their anger has grown Blessed be the Ogoni people! Ken Saro-Wiwa He led the struggle of the Ogoni people against the environmental devastation In 1993, for the first time thousands of Ogonis, voiced their opposition The struggle he led We only carried leaves As a result of our protest, To move out of the Ogoni land. The company closed 96 wells. One year later, Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight of his companions Strangely, the accusations They were merely accused A parody of a trial began. At the end of the day, they convicted Ken and the others and executed them. That was the saddest moment even though it was an Ogoni-led fight, all of us, felt that this was an angle When he died, we were disillusioned, and it made us begin to look after the departure of that leader. We felt that we should transplant what Over 31 million people in the Niger Delta could be deeply conscientized That's why we did that. We were then visited with arms When we went out to protest they came cracking down on us with arms. Military repression Groups of freedom fighters were formed, coming together A chronic cycle of violence Attacks on pipelines were followed In 2007, oil production fell by 20%. Two years later, the federal government When the economy, or oil production, is affected that much that means that there's much less revenue so the federal government to try to pacify the militants and bring this crisis to an end. It would take until late 2009 for surrendered weapons in exchange for money and promises I'm under clear and targeted instruction by the Movement for the Emancipation to hand over these arms and ammunition and to demonstrate its commitment and means of resolving Firstly, the amnesty program is illegal in accordance With the laws of the Nigerian state. There's nothing like amnesty. It's just a palliative measure and make them feel In Nigeria, including peace. Twenty thousand rebels, like the former freedom fighter leader have so far accepted the amnesty. For how much longer? We're talking about fundamental issues We're talking about fundamental issues We're talking about fundamental issues We're talking about the fundamental issues These are the issues It's not about bribing people with 65,000 That's not the issue. It's 8 p.m. somewhere in the Delta. John Togo has finally agreed to meet us, He's the last of the rebels Why? Who is he in reality? A bandit, a highwayman, I know it's said It's midnight. After four hours on the road, we finally reach where a few militants are waiting After an hour in the speedboat, we finally reach a village where we have to remain in hiding waiting for the rebels to come These are my soldiers. Well-educated. -You're very close with them? This is my beloved. They're my beloved. Well-trained snipers. We were expecting to meet him in his camp, but John Togo is waiting in a clearing For the camera, he presents a review equipped for the occasion. If the legend is to be believed, he lost part of his face A nine-millimeter bullet Calling me a criminal and a pirate? I'm not like that. I'm a General Fighter The amnesty was a dead point. They said that they'll come and bomb everywhere. I know you have to. You want your brothers, I'm supposed to go on October 4th Let me live in peace with my people. Nothing was endorsed in the white paper. Isolated in the jungle he decided to continue the fight and the Nigerian authorities. We want to blow up the pipelines. That's our struggle, in fact. The export lines are the targets. The refineries are the targets. The filling stations are the targets. That is our war strategy. I have given an ultimatum and the international companies. Seven-day ultimatum. That's security and war strategy. It is I and my team that know if there's no good attention. I'm the only one who installed that. Nobody knows what I have installed. Any time, I will blow up. That is that. Since our meeting, Nothing has exploded, but the army has lost 18 men Ignoring the freedom fighter's threats, the oil companies On the land of the Ije people, Obagi is Total's first onshore In 2011, the company is preparing after 20 years of extraction. Still accompanied by Terry Bourgeois, we head for the gas treatment plant Two hundred armed men protect the site although Total doesn't admit this. We began our activity here in 66. With 50 years of shared history, but we're beginning Why so much security? Today, we have policies of prevention Tensions have developed Not in the immediate environment, In the past few years, we've worked on a policy of protecting We don't think or the people who live close Through the exchanges we have with them, we don't get the impression Forgotten then are the inhabitants demanding a share of the oil money. Last November, a confrontation resulted in two deaths in the community. In 2004, Total discovered in a working oil field. Today, 3,000 work here. We're moving from a field to a field that will produce 80% gas. For how much longer? The production forecast indicates 25 years at the moment, with the hope will enable us and the ultimate recovery of the reserves. Growth, turnover, profit, percentages. The official discourse is obsessional Outside, In a few years, the future gas terminal, a site of great expectations This town in Bayelsa State The governor comes here regularly. Private or professional visits for which the Italian company Agip After a 90-minute flight, we finally reached The Italians are working awaiting the construction The protocol demands the company director Will you stay here tonight? No, I'll just spend one hour You have to go at five o'clock. The president is coming tomorrow, I'm just coming to see, I'll be back in a jiffy. You can see this the end of the world. You will see the LNG project although it's taking a long time. We hear that now they will be able If they take the FID, then we should see a lot of work going on. We're hoping that with the Brass LNG, This is going to be that will open directly to the ocean. -People there are quite happy, I guess? I'd like you to meet one so that you can talk to them if they're happy or not. It's on this site, forbidden to the press, that the new LNG gas project At a cost of some EUR11 billion, with Total, Conoco, A landing stage in Ogbia. I decide to return to Brass because questions have to be asked. Is the local population How are they experiencing What will the future terminal bring them? On the landing stage, a young activist who visits Brass He'll be our guide. There are crises, especially when you have oil in the place, because one strategy is to introduce divide While the people are quarreling, they're doing their business, To avoid raising and the locals' apprehension, Celestin has not told the villagers Across the river, there's a pipeline. Very high-pressure pipeline. Once on land, we decide to visit Iwoama. The Brass project is causing divisions There are those who'll get a slice Here in Iwoama, and solid houses Brass LNG. What do you know about Brass LNG? It's a federal project on Brass Island. It wants to locate, establish, Are they informing the community Are they informing the community? Actually, most of the time, the community doesn't know They don't know what's going on. Like we, the Iwoama people, Fine promises have been made, Celestin remains dubious and attempts to find out more This is the president of this community. I'm seeing -Are they built by LNG? No, they're built by Timipre Sylva, This is the first time I've seen that the government is building People are saying that Timipre Sylva but this is something. What they won't admit is that by selling their agricultural land, A house costing a few hundred euros One morning, we reached the village of Okpoama. Facing the Atlantic Ocean, No oil, no gas, and no land which could be useful Okpoama is a different place See where we're living now. -The oil-producing communities. -It's not fair. It's not fair. Like in Iwoama, opinions are hesitant and the fear of the oil companies What'll happen if oil and gas companies We love them. We'd love to embrace them. -Are you afraid? We're afraid. Since they don't come to us, we don't know If they come then we'll become friends with them. They've worked and they've not paid. When they come to work, we'll know that. When someone is interested you have to show them interest, but they have not done that, They promised It's only a promise. Okay, they talk about it. -They don't do anything. What do you hope the LNG will do? We need roads, but they're not doing anything. I don't know Considering the fact and we know what the presence of LNG and how they have destroyed things, are people in this area Yes, we're afraid now. We're really afraid of what's happened. Nobody enlightened us on what's going on. Nobody enlightened us. Suddenly, We head for the beach. As we arrive, we see a 4x4 Our blue sedan Our presence in the village Excuse me. Somebody just told me and the government are coming That we should stop what we're doing. I don't find that funny. They have come with threats and vehicles wanting to force us into the vehicle, They've left I don't know. The companies react quickly It's pointless asking any more questions. We're not welcome here. If they come, tell them that we left. Feeling under threat, The Hilux Jeep is given to them Do you mean Yes, the oil companies have paid them. The oil company Agip The two vehicles They will kidnap us and destroy this. They will destroy your material. It'll happen and they'll deny and they'll tell us Why didn't we go with a security escort? In Nigeria, it's business as usual. When you fill your tank back in France, 10% of your petrol