Today we are going to talk about Practical Vastu How to balance your home This video has never been released on the internet You will be able to balance your home completely end-to-end This video is going to be very practical So take a pen and paper and keep your phone with you Because you will have to do a lot of work together So today we have Abhishek Bhai with us And today we are going to do Vastu of our office And we will practically execute everything end-to-end So welcome back Thank you so much So tell us how to start and how to do it Without further ado, let's come to the practical knowledge And today's topic that you have decided is How to do Vastu Like people ask what is W2, what is N3 So today in detail Because there is a lot of confusion My team members also told me Sir you say entry of N2, I don't understand You say do it in South-West, East or South-West He said sir I don't understand what is it So I realized that this video is shot with you So the first thing I will tell you There are 2-3 things in Vastu If we talk about Vastu, the first thing is Entrance There are 32 entrances in total Vastu There are 4 major directions North, East, South and West 8 entrances are in North 8 entrances are in East 8 in South and 8 in West The 8 entrances in North We call them N1, N2, N3, N4, N5, N6, N7, N8 8 entrances in North are N1 to N8 Similarly E1, E2, E3, E4, E8 S1 to S8 and W1 to W8 So this 360 degree Vastu cycle When we divide it by 32 We get 11.25 So we have an entrance of 11.25 degrees There are 32 entrances in total Vastu As per Vishwagarmaprakash The second thing is 16 directions There are 16 directions in total Vastu N1, N2, N3, N4 are the directions You have taken the circle First we divided the 360 degree Vastu circle into 32 parts So we got an entrance of 11.25 degrees In North, the 11.25 degree to the left is N4 The 11.25 degree to the right is N5 Similarly in North, North East is N6, N7 In North East is N8, E1 In East, North East is E2, E3 So this 32 entrances are divided into 16 directions The third thing is Panch Tatva Which is the balancing of any space For example, if any direction is extended How to balance it? If there is a cut, how to balance it? Because in a building, till 5 elements Panch Tatva, Panch Mahabhuta, Panch Tatva If they are not balanced No remedy will work Once you have balanced 5 elements in your building Then you don't have to do anything You will start getting gains in your building Problems will end, prosperity will boost The fourth thing is Programming In which we have paintings, artifacts Like Ganesh ji has kept here So this is a remedy for me Like he has kept a finger on his mouth So it has an effect in Vastu So we call them artifacts Like you can see this as a normal artifact I can see this crown chakra activation I can see a person concentrating on his gun You have a studio, you have an office This direction where we are sitting is North East You have kept this statue here I will tell you the effect of this in your life Don't say yes or no You keep meditating for 24 hours What should I do? This is the effect of this So these are the 4th level artifacts The 5th level is Astro Vastu Which is a very big topic We may not be able to cover it today So today we will start with the basics What do we need first and what do we have to do? And basically all the videos we have made Or all the videos you have seen on the internet It is said that Keep this in North East and color it Those things work only when you have a balance Only when you have a balance of the 5 elements Then it will work, otherwise it won't And basically another topic of this video is Many people are scared in their homes Do you know why I am shooting for the studio with you? You have an entrance to South-South-West And the person who has an entrance to South-South-West That person is very worried And less worried than the reason for the entrance He is more worried about my death And my destruction Until he didn't know, his life was going well Since he has come to know, he is more worried So how did we balance it? Today he will also reveal The entrance of my house and office is also South-South-West And at the entrance of South-South-West Vastu people refuse to take the case How many of you said that leave the office and change You told me So how have we balanced it? Why you don't remember its effect Today he will reveal Let's start First of all To do Vastu If you are able to see the screen Otherwise, Sahil ji will show you on the screen We need a map This is a to the scale plan Which you can make with the help of any architect's draftman Draftman will charge 2 to 2.5 rupees per square feet You search on Google Search the number of the draftman in your area Search the number of the architect And you have to make a furniture layout from them What does a furniture layout mean? It means a layout In which with proper measurement Your four walls and the inner walls are marked Along with that The position of your bed The position of your toilet seat The position of the gas stove in the kitchen Plants are kept somewhere Painting Everything Which is there should be marked on the map We call it a proper furniture layout Many people complain Draftman is very expensive Architect is asking a lot of money to make a map Etc. etc. For that, I tell you a small thing today If you have an iPhone in your house If anyone has an iPhone user There is an app in it Its name is Cubicasa C-U-B-I-C-A-S-A It runs on Apple It doesn't run on Android yet You download that app There is such a good app in that app And the first map is free in it You can make the first map free What do you have to do by downloading the app? It will tell you a few steps In that, you have to scan your house with a camera And the map of your house will come on your phone in 2 to 4 hours For free No matter how big your house is Okay So your map is sorted Otherwise, even if it asks for paid I think it will charge 10 or 12 dollars for a plan 10-12 dollars means 800-900-1000 Maximum 1000 rupees for your house layout plan And accuracy Accurate 100 It is more accurate than Draftman 100% accurate I have been using it for years And all the students have the same app I tell you to make a map from that app Because there are case studies in the class So we need a map I said, whoever made it is fine If you didn't make it, make it from the app And bring the map Okay Now we have a map After getting the map The second requirement we have That is North's degree Okay We have to get North's degree What do you have to do to get North's degree? In iPhone or any phone You have to download the mobile compass app Which looks like this Mobile compass app What do you do simply? Consider any wall as parallel Hold your mobile phone like this And see the degree inside it What degree is coming Like if we talk here We can see 110 degrees east from the front Okay Means my east If I consider this wall as a reference Then 20 degrees tilt to the left Okay If we talk about North So if we consider this wall as a reference Then 22 degrees, 20 degrees north My tilt is showing to the left We got North's degree After getting North's degree Our next step is Mark 16 directions on the map To mark 16 directions on the map You have to do two things Either you go to a jewelry store There you get a 360 degree protector Marking from 0 to 360 degrees You bring that I will teach you how to mark from that Or you make a very good app Swarn Siddhi Swarn Siddhi app Download Sahil's app A compass comes inside it Click the photo of the map Align it to the north Then it will show you the degrees Or you can go to the center of the house Then you will know Which direction is which Which direction is which Keep the map down there Click the photo of it Then it will show you Now with the help of 360 protector How can you mark 16 directions I will tell you that Now to create a map What you have to do simply This is a map Okay In the map we got to know That our north is 20 degrees Tilt to the left Taking this wall as a reference Okay Now what we have to do First of all I will put a cross like this And find out the center of this building I got the center I will draw a straight line from the center here And here The 360 protector that I took from the stationery shop I will plant zero here I will keep it on top of this And I will plant zero on top In 20 degrees left In 20 degrees left Now, this area from here to here and from here to here, means 11.25 degrees to the right and 11.25 degrees to the left of this north point, this area is my north zone. This entire area, in this entire triangle, in this entire area, whatever I color it red, whatever I color it red, whatever I color it red, whatever I color it red, this area is my north zone. Now, what I have to do is, I have to put a dot at 22.5 degrees to the right of this right point and I have to connect it to the center. After that, I have to put a dot at another right and I have to connect it to the center. To make this work easier, what you can do is, you can draw the lines from the center. So that you can mark 8 directions and automatically mark 16 directions. Because they are equal. Let me tell you the directions. North, North North East, North East, East North East, East, East South East, South East, South South East, South, South Southwest, Southwest, West Southwest, West, West Northwest, Northwest, and North Northwest. These are our 16 directions. When you follow this entire procedure, now at 22.5 degrees, this is North North East, then this is North East, then East North East, then East, then East South East. When you follow this entire procedure, then after following this entire procedure, you will get a map which looks like this. We call this map Grid Plan. Now, in this, North is not visible at 20 degrees. Why is it not visible? Because we are sitting here now. And this compass of the iPad is not calibrated. North is a little more than 20. It is around 35 degrees. So this is an accurate grid plan. I remembered from calibration that when you use your phone or iPad compass to take a degree, there is an option of calibration in it, in which you tilt the mobile and calibrate it. Do calibrate it, otherwise the degrees will be wrong. Okay, that's it. So now we have this grid plan. We call this plan Grid Plan. Now, can you see in this plan? We have prepared this grid plan. Can you see in this plan? Your office is coming in East North East. Your main entry, which you enter from here, is coming in South South West, in the direction of S6. These are your two toilets coming in the direction of South. This is the area where we sit and shoot podcasts in West, West South West. Here in the area of West and West South West, in the area of South West, you have made two separate studios. Where you have different channels. Your entire audience sits here. All your staff works. Sitting in East North East, all your staff works. And here in North East, you have made your temple. Here we are sitting right now. So in this grid plan, you will have all the clarity that in which direction, which activity is going on in your premises. Now, the qualities of the directions, you will get them in our old videos, in the chakras. Now, we have to match those effects in the grid. We have to match those effects in that grid. To match in the grid, what we will do is, like the direction of East North East, this is the direction of fun. This is the direction of creativity. This is the direction of creativity. The direction of South represents fame. Our entrance is in S6. S6 means total waste of efforts. After that, South West means skills. This is the zone of skills. This is the zone of education. This is the direction of gains. Okay? We are sitting in West and doing podcast. So, whoever comes to do podcast with you, they will get gains. Ask why? You are sitting here in West South West. When you are doing podcast, what is your mindset? I should get some knowledge. Right? You are not doing anything for money. You are doing for knowledge. Money is secondary. You are charging money. But knowledge is your main port. You are sitting here. Your person is sitting here who is coming to do podcast in West. He will always get gains. Okay? Your entire audience is sitting here. It is okay. North North East is the direction of solutions. It is the direction of health. What happens is, when we talk about home, we see North North East as health and immunity. But when we talk about office, health and immunity doesn't matter in office. It is from home. When your premises change, your attributes change. For example, North North East in the context of home represents health and immunity. In office, North North East represents solutions. What solutions are you giving to clients? Okay? Some are same. For example, opportunities in home, money. Opportunities in office, money. For example, Southwest direction. Southwest direction represents your ancestors plus your relationships. Relationships which are in close home. Parents, wife and children. Today neighbors, uncle, grandma. Not with them. Only your close family blood relation. We will see from Southwest. If I talk about office, Southwest direction is direction of performance. There is no relationship. If we see Southwest from relationship in office, those relations are those working in your office. Who are your personal suppliers? Who are your buyers? Those relations. Not the outsourced work. Internal relations. Okay? There are different directions like this. There are 16 directions and their attributes. Now, you have made office in East North East. Okay? Direction of creativity, direction of fun. What is going on here all day? Something new every day. What to do new now? You are very creative. Very creative. Your guests sit in Northeast. Whenever a person sits in Northeast, he gets satisfaction. He enjoys. He gets solutions. He gets insights. That I have come to the right place. So, it is best to make guests sit in Northeast. Okay? Till now, I have told you only two things in your office. One, I told you about your entrance. That I have to do some remedies in my entrance. And second, I had added some money plants here. Okay? I have done these two remedies in your office till now. Today, I will show you your entire studio. We have also treated some toilets. Okay? We have also told you about the tapes in the toilet. Today, I will tell you about your entire office. First, I will tell you what I have done. What have I done? Because South-South-West is bad. There is no problem in South-West. You are not getting the effect of South-South-West's entrance. Right? And everyone is asking you. Even people who are coming here to do Vastu podcast, they are also asking how you are working in South-South-West's entrance. Today, I will tell you what I have done in your office on Day 1. Because of which you are not getting the effect of South-South-West. I have not shared it with you till now. Today, I will tell you why you are not getting the effect. And why no one is able to crack this thing. Okay? So, let's take a tour of the office. Okay. And let's tell everyone live. Okay. So, for the first time, we are going to see our entire office. We have not put it on the internet yet. Okay. Right. So, now at this time, like this is your office, this is your entrance. So, now we are standing in the South. This area is S4's area. Okay? Now let's go inside first. Okay. This is your South-South-West entrance. Okay? First of all, we have put a yellow tape here. Okay. We have put a yellow tape at the entrance of South-South-West. Okay? What does yellow tape do in South-South-West? Basically, we have put this to block that whatever negative effects of this entry, we permanently block them. We have blocked it. But, since you have come here, when I came here for the first time, when I had put the tape, how many subscribers were there on your channel? There were less, 2, 4, 5 thousand. 5 thousand. Yes. 6 lakhs. 6 lakhs. This video will be 6 plus. 6 lakhs, 6 plus. Okay? Rapid growth of fame is available to you. Okay? Rapid growth of fame is available in this field. What is fame? S4 Entry gives you Continuous Hanker Fame and makes you a king in the market You get a lot of fame I have activated your S4 Entry How? You come here Now this entry I recommended you something on Day 1 I want a mirror on this whole wall Did you do it? I didn't tell you why and I am telling you something for the first time This entry of South-South-West I made this entry reflect on their S4 wall Now whenever this gate opens You get two gates One is S6 which we blocked with yellow tape One opens of S4 which is your positive hanker Ok So that's why you don't get any negative effects Now this area I told you that it should not be blue You haven't done yellow yet Now you have to do this You have to do this Blue sofa should not be here Why? Because this direction is South-South-West It represents South-South-West and South-West What is inside this? The direction of South-South-West This is Earth element Earth element and water element are enemies Blue color is water element This is the direction of Earth element So here plants are also anti and this blue color is also anti This should not happen You have to remove these plants You have to change this blue color Either you put a cover of yellow color Or you change it And you have to put the whole cover or even less than the cushion If you have put yellow cushion above the blue cushion then you are killing each other Yellow and blue are enemies You are making them fight This will block the things Okay So here you don't have to keep blue and yellow together You have to close this This is our shoot room This was our actual studio when we started YouTube We thought we will shift to this office This was not the actual studio This was to be used for the team We shifted it later But this was the actual studio It is not utilized yet So we have to increase its utilization Now this direction is coming in the direction of South-West, West-South-West and West Okay So this black color should not be in South-West Okay What you can do is You can put some white color sheets So that black color is not visible When you have to shoot, remove those sheets When it is not in use, cover this black area with white sheets Okay Or you can put panels here You can put a screen This is a very good room Okay This direction is West According to your horoscope West is the most beneficial direction So you have to do two things One, if you can make your sitting here Regular sitting I sit here normally Don't sit here, sit in the West According to the grid, that corner is coming in the West And according to your horoscope, it is very beneficial So you sit there Like you gave this plant here to shoot, you have to cover it Cover it with white sheets Remove it when you have to shoot If not, cover it Rest of the things are okay Like artificial plants, don't keep them Because it doesn't affect temporary things Remove it when you have to shoot Sofa is blue? Sofa is blue, okay Like it shouldn't be in the South-West This sofa is good here Okay So I can take this sofa here Perfect Let's go outside This is your pantry and kitchen area Let's see inside If we talk here This is ideal This direction is South-East Here you have your microwave, gas stove So these are okay This toilet is coming in the South This one and this one These are coming in the South We put green tapes on Day 1 So the effect is gone Okay So we put the tape on Day 1 Our effects are gone And this mirror? No problem with the mirror Because this South-South-East This direction is small What happens is These big directions These are called extended These small ones These are called cut Because it is cut, the mirror will extend Some people Consider the mirror as a water element But the mirror is not a water element What is the mirror doing? It is extending the space Expanding Expansion is space element So the mirror is a space element So there is no problem with the mirror And this window This window is coming in the South-East If you open this window in the South-East Then this will give an entrance effect Which is very dangerous You have to keep this window closed Never open it Okay This is our area This is our shoot area We came to the Western area In the West, basically You have all the play buttons of YouTube In the West The direction of the West is such Where whatever you keep It keeps increasing So here If you keep the play buttons of YouTube Then the subscribers will keep increasing More play buttons will increase But what you have to do here The plants you have kept You need all these plants in the North Whenever there is a shoot, keep it You don't have to keep plants here regularly You have kept all the artifacts Right? One more question The Lapaas channel I have seen a lot of difference after this What difference have you seen after Lapaas? Let me tell you Your focus was shifted from this Lapaas channel Right? You were in Occult, Podcast Your natural Lapaas was in the West West means Gains So you basically revived this channel So you became very active That's it Because whatever you do here It will grow You have put a major growth of Lapaas Put a show of Sahil Khanna there After that watch me That's it Now this is your team area Your whole team is sitting here That is the area of North-North-East That is the area of North Now the area you see here This is your North and North-North-East This area is extended To balance the extended We introduce the next element Because water is extended So we introduce air Air element is plants So I have here In this corner I have added money plants You have kept air purifier here You have added money plants We have put this green scenery here To shoot So this is our extended balance After that your team is here East-South-East East-North-East and East Here Your whole team is working here This is a good zone The temple is so beautiful This is in the North-East So this is also okay Just keep one thing in mind When temple comes in the North-East In the North-East temple We don't use Akhand Jyot We use small lamps We use stainless steel lamps We don't use brass or silver lamps So we don't have to use Akhand Jyot In stainless steel lamps We have to use Jyot for 10-15 minutes Now this is your office Where we were sitting These are our plants We had planted a tree These plants are there This is the North-East zone It represents connectivity and speed And you are creative Your work is creativity So you are sitting here Now we have a question We have cluttered this zone Is this right or wrong? This is wrong This zone is coming in the North-East It is basically kept here This is a bad CPU Is this CPU bad? It works but it is not utilized So this is not clutter This is your work stuff But still it should not be red And the more we keep the North-East The better Don't keep it here Keep it on the South-West side Or in the studio Because it is black Because the logic is This is my TV stand On which there is a touch screen TV We keep it here And it is hidden That's why we have kept it here You can keep the stand here But not the red TV Keep it somewhere else Don't keep it in the North-East And our storeroom Where is the storeroom? What happens here? Here only the garbage is collected The long term stuff in the office That is not utilized Your storeroom is coming in the East-South-East Okay? In the East-South-East If you keep anything in your house It becomes useless It is not utilized This is the churning zone If you keep the cameras here The latest camera that you bought, you keep that camera here. You know what will happen? You will get excited that there is a better camera than this in the market. You will buy a new one. It happened like this. The new camera that I bought, I used to keep it here. You used to keep it here. You will get excited that what is better than this. You will keep churning whatever is kept here. Wi-Fi router is installed here? Wi-Fi router is here, on the back wall. It is on the back wall? Show me where is it? It is installed here. Where is it? It is inside. Here? There is no problem here. Your Wi-Fi router is coming from the east. Nothing should happen in the south east. Don't keep electronic items in the south east. Keep some stuff that can be used sometimes. So we have made the story for this. Like hard disk etc. Don't keep hard disk. If you don't keep hard disk, the data will get corrupted. Okay. So you can keep it in your office. Keep it in your office. Or keep it in the west corner. Keep it in the corner of your studio. Keep it there. Whatever is kept there will be multiplied. So first of all, thank you. Most welcome. This is such a video. I don't think anyone has ever seen such a video on the internet. So we have practically covered everything end to end. And tried to explain practically how you can do Vastu. Rest, our app is Swan Siddhi. And you can stand directly in the center. I have taught you how to stand in the center. It will tell you which direction is which. So you don't have to map. You will get the basic idea there. And you will understand which direction is which in your house. It is a layman's house. You don't have to work hard. But we recommend that if you work hard, accuracy will be 100%. Right. Thank you once again. Most welcome. So with this, today's video ends here. I hope you enjoyed it. Like, share and comment on how you liked the video. Bye, good night, good morning whenever you are watching this video. Jai Hind, Vande Mataram.