Yeah, that's that third one. Good evening and welcome to today's of California, We are online at Commonwealth Club Facebook, Twitter My name is Barry Eisler. I'm a novelist, blogger And now you're moderator. It is my pleasure to introduce Annie Jacobsen, former contributing and author of Phenomena Government's Investigations and Psycho Kinesis. I had to look at that word a little longer This is the book. Know everyone on the radio can't see it, It is such a great book. I got it a little bit more about Annie. Annie and bestselling national security and government secrecy. Her Area, and the Pentagon's brain was a Pulitzer Now she has written what she says is decades long investigation Miss Jacobson says government has researched extrasensory to locate hostages, fugitives, secret other nations secrets and even to predict The agencies involved Navy, Air Force, Army, Ms.. Jacobson's new book, Phenomena, tells the story using never before seen declassified with more than 50 former CIA and Defense Department scientists as well as the government Please welcome Annie Jacobson. So I was just chatting with Andy which is always the privilege at one of these things about this We're going to have a lot to cover in But I'd like to start for anyone who doesn't know that the US government has been for decades with significant resources to speed on on a high level of what extrasensory perception investigations, Well, first of all, thanks and welcome everybody here controversial subject to your question, I because I report on DOD programs, in all four of my books, And so that's where this began, which is a kind of curious But the the intelligence a trove of documents And it was Heinrich Himmler's science organization. And this particular cache of documents knowing things beyond the five non senses. Psycho Kinesis with your mind, that you could move matter And so the government got interested anything the Nazis had done for technical And also because guess The Soviets. So it kicked off the psychic arms race, if you will, and year They got right on this. What I thought was most these programs when I initially started I thought they were kind of buttoned up famous programs and the downfall But in fact, I was astonished to learn Programs are still going on, rubric of high technology. So instead of being called things they're called anomalous mental cognition. And, you know, here's here's another one It's called Sense Making. And that is different if you get the government to do but it's ambiguity and vagaries but it's just extrasensory perception I always find it fascinating how the government thinks it can rename things I mean, it's not torture, for example. It's enhanced interrogation. They're detainees, they're not wars. They're interventions. We can always certify things You mentioned the remote viewing program, This is probably the the best known to the Probably I would love to hear a little bit So remote The CIA came up with and the program went on right here in your neighborhood Looking at declassified documents, these extraordinary success stories Yes, there were huge, colossal failures, some remarkable experiences They would put psychics in laboratories in a Faraday cage, And they would begin with very simple I mean, they would literally put a box He couldn't see in it and say, And if they passed the test, And before you knew it, facilities, you know, seeing places But what was so remarkable And again, this is the declassified in which these psychics knew things And what was really remarkable to me on some of the cases that I found would come in and investigate CIA You know, who is in your organization? They thought there was a mole inside CIA to access highly classified information. I mean, secret NSA facilities and there was no way So, yes, big, big failures, but extraordinary, weird, spooky successes better than chance could And it depends who you ask. You know, this is really a story. I mean, the narrative that I write, of what can be known. What what is possible for man to know. And on another level, the book is really because there are many scientists, if you will, who say this is utter And let's be clear I mean, scientists have agreed since the scientific revolution And most importantly, for it Well, a phenomena, the phenomena, extrasensory perception, These are physical by their very nature. Meaning, yes, the CIA, in laboratories So on the one hand, you have that say, Oh, Then you have the scientists who are the skeptics Get rid of it. Crazy. One of the things that I found so interesting about the book of the tension, and believers, between what are sometimes Why do you think? Some some goat fetishists. Why do you think there's such hostility to the notion of what are sometimes called Well, I think before I began investigating And I was interested to learn that a lot of scientific skeptics are also atheists and, you know, or faith come into any of my reporting But it's pertinent. So I reported the facts. So on the one hand, you have scientific you have the people in the work In my experience, and the psychics themselves. They some of them believe that if you will, advanced intuition And so perhaps the best analogy is what some of the scientists said to me Annie cannot sing in the shower. Think of Mozart's music. So I would be called normal, right? And they would Mozart would be a super normal, So that's biological, physiological. That's And then you have another group no, no, no, it's something else. It's something without it's And now you're getting into the realm of. The supernatural. I mean. Faith. Right. Consciousness. And that is the point of contention Yeah. The hostility I find interesting, because my take on these sorts of phenomena is if there's a science to it, That's I think Arthur The supernatural is merely science, I, I, I don't, I don't agree that with open arms or with hostility, There's. Have you do you know the name Ed Mitchell Does that ring a bell? Some people I have to admit the name wasn't There's a there's a really great, and then a coda about Ed Mitchell. He was an astronaut, 2166. To to walk on the moon and. Well, why don't you tell the audience his own personal psychic experiment on the way to the moon So all of my books come from an idea While researching the previous book I was looking at space a lot and I was I came across what I thought I've ever seen. It's in the book. There's a man on the moon, an astronaut, While on the moon he is holding And I thought, My God, what is he reading? So I tracked him down. That was Ed Mitchell. Apollo 14. I went to his home and interviewed him in Florida and I said, And he said, he was reading a map. So it was a man on the moon On the moon. And I said, And he said, very seriously, Now, this really was amazing to me it is a quest narrative, And it's when you think of science being lost, How do you get back? I mean, the book has But what happened to Mitchell me, they had flown 240,000 miles to get to Mitchell was the pilot He hit his target within 87 feet. That was the record And then they got lost locally. I mean, think what are the chances? And, you know, it led to his to psychic functioning. He was secretly conducting experiments But the disappointment because they weren't able to They were supposed to grab some rocks you know, perhaps reveal the origins And he was so disappointed on the way he looked out and had what he called an epiphany. And he said that in that moment, that man was more Consciousness. That we're all connected by consciousness. All connected by consciousness That was one of my favorite chapters It was incredibly moving, about the psychic experimentation. It was actually about this this moon, this trip to the moon But so Mitchell, because he was interested conducted a psychic experiment He just had three people back on earth. And he said, Okay, at such and such a time, I'm going to concentrate The classic square circle star, wavy lines, that kind of thing. And I mean, it just seems like from Harmless at worst. I mean, what's the big deal? But somebody leaked it. And for the rest of his life, he was well, anyway. He was dogged by this stuff, like Right. He was ridiculed. I mean, he told me a story they got back from the moon with Alan And it had leaked out in the press. And Shepard was like, look at this, look. The press will say anything. My God, they are shameless. They said you conducted ESP experiments and Mitchell said he, And he said, I did. And he said, the look he got from Shepard was just a slay. And I find I find that so interesting First, because it's just interesting that with certain exceptions, I'm not a religious person myself, at people who say believe I don't know. It's It just doesn't seem like something that's And so why would like if Ed Mitchell I'm a religious man, I'm a believer, In fact, you practically have to say that Whether you are But if you say like, well, So I conducted an experiment. People start rolling their eyes. That's a really interesting And the other thing is that this about how the U.S. government over decades has spent tens investigating these phenomena. And Ed Mitchell did it for free. Right. It's like a benefit to the taxpayer. And people sneered at him. But when the CIA does it, it's like, Oh, that's, That's it's it's the oddest thing. It's like that George Carlin thing about religious believers He's like, you know, they get relegated with the phrase hobbyists. Like it's So Ed Mitchell is a hobbyist, But when the CIA and the DIA spent tens of millions of dollars, I don't know. I just found that discrepancy It's one of my favorite stories and I'm glad you pointed it out. And I agree with you because, by the way, from MIT. He was no slouch, I mean, no story was ever written from the moon pointing out that he had conducted When you read about what how they prepared, how much training it 240,000 miles to the moon you can imagine things going wrong, and focused and rational and problem To think that people I'm like, What have you done? Well, I'm so glad you pointed it out. You know, you can read a thousand pages worth of Apollo transcripts But I'll give you one little note of they were okay. First of all, Well, that comes after Apollo 13. And you know about that. There was so much pressure on the astronauts to not have anything Point There was a major problem You can't land on the moon yet one more time. Think about it like and by the way, we're I mean, Even if it wasn't Somebody just telling you have to go I'd be like, do I have to that? Yes. And so what they went through And again, I mean, is it within is it without? I mean, you know accomplish was remarkable. And again, this led Mitchell But he suffered for it. Yeah. For needlessly. It's the people who jeered at him. It says so much more about them There's just one little thing that I love So the abort sign comes on and suddenly the screen starts Like you can't land on the moon. You have to come back now And so they're all trying to figure out, We've only got seconds. We're running out of fuel and stuff and and NASA's running through all the different scenarios And then some technician says, Could you Mitchell's like, what just happens to just like it's the best. Oh, my God. So, so have all these different programs with the end of World by the Allies that a Himmler had been had been looking areas himself, and learned producing the greatest Smith versus versus the Joneses national security race, What were some of the greatest endeavors So the book is but then also about the deployment. What were some of the really its its research into psychic phenomenon Well, you bring up an interesting point, that were involved always embarked upon a research program Let's spend three years researching this go operational, and then there would be For example, one of the big programs locating them. So they're researching it and suddenly, and there's an emergency crisis oh, my God, we're missing seven guys. That cannot be accounted for. They're not in a hostage situation. Where are they? And, you know, technical intelligence So they looked to the remote viewers and these guys were able in a manner that no other hard So that's And the Joint Chiefs of Staff We need more of this. So you had a lot of hostage locating there was Hezbollah that was kidnaping And so these guys were used And there was always an tense rush. And it was interesting looking at very early drone technology, some of my other books in the eighties when the Israelis were And you have drones the psychics are saying in this, with an incredible ticking clock, B, But another situation which I found remarkable, before, was after Reagan the the military was brought in. And this was an astonishing development, the Navy's looking for drugs, you know, big loads of cocaine coming in from the drug cartels, and they couldn't Satellite technology So they brought the psychics onboard you know, quasi science, pseudo science, I mean, Himmler used to do it. His people, the Nazis would do it over a map to locate, Well, we're doing this in diode And the psychics in many situations Oh, I see. You know, going like this with a map, till they're doing this with a boat and then locating where on the vessel And then the Navy interdict So again, I mean, coincidence luck, pseudo science fact, These are So the the military, according to its own studies, believes they have been investigating and trying to It's not pseudoscience. There's something to it. That's the conclusion. That's the key conclusion. By some There are theories, you know, the placebo effect believe you can find it. The self-fulfilling prophecy idea, you know, that it's hard to really put a finger But again, going to the modern era, now you're looking if you will, because we're no longer the parapsychologists of the seventies. They're using neurobiologists, computer technologists, They're taking soldiers in the field and then mapping their brains And as it was said to me, then, That's the plan. And of course, when you're talking about As a thriller writer, But I love I mean, I don't even have to I'm just like, So yeah. And apparently this research, It's not. But you have not written you've written a book about the secret But it's not just history. Is that right? That's right. I mean, it's contemporary. And what I find even more interesting is because I write about, Many of what I cover. Much of what I cover is through And we're talking about And what I report in all of my books the time, kind of the tip of the iceberg, So when you look at what I'm able now I show you what I would And there is a lot more there and one And that's my job as a novelist. I'm always imagining that stuff. And what I imagine is government to look into anything that the Chinese are doing it. Or better yet, these days If the Russians are doing it done, People sometimes ask me, Do you think U.S. government has really done experiments Like, are you kidding? Of course, they had somebody told them So we had to do it to. Just a quick reminder for the radio This is the Commonwealth Club and we are talking with journalist experiments and investigation I'm Barry Eisler, your moderator. You can listen to Commonwealth Club Watch our YouTube channel. Check out our website and Twitter. Okay. Surprised to see that we only have But I need not be surprised. I actually got dozens. But I want to ask you this. How accurate are the X-Files paranormal, not alien conspiracies? Look, you know, science fiction and science fact merge. In fact, what my last book on DARPA, was actually quoted as saying, well, here at DARPA, this is where science So again, it goes back to that idea I mean, the age that we live in is very, than Himmler's, you know, pseudo science. So I think more will be revealed. But I always think and we'll leave it But there is there is a real you know, people love this battleground, because you mentioned the sheep I mean, it was Gertrude Schindler, experimental psychologist, And she said, on the one hand, These are scientific skeptics who say And on the other hand, you have sheep. Sheep are open to the idea of ESP. Don't have to be convinced, And what is fascinating is a new Gallup are the minority, even though they're are And the I mean, the go to the minority who are open to this, open to the X-Files in real life are 76%. It's actually encouraging for me to hear because I think the notion of saying, It's almost the assumption that we know everything about the world, There can be nothing mysterious. It's all been discovered. unlikely I think, in fact, on possible scientific a possible scientific basis or number of different bases for these phenomena. One of them is relatively recent. I guess it's quantum entanglement theory. Would you like to talk a little bit I find that stuff really interesting. Well, I, I an interview in the DOD program and then wanted to know And they're all in still in the work, And one of the the scientists, Dale Graff, program, works in what is a very kind of, you know, controversial area, always about which is this idea what happens in the future And I think that I do a better job quoting others, as in the book, But, you know, it lives in the world called spooky action at a distance, no matter where they are far away, And I love that phrase spooky action It's the title of a new book And I know very little about this stuff, entanglement, it's super interesting spot And anyway, some people think for what we experience There's actually some sort of physics And my feeling is, I don't know. I mean, I have Internet knowledge of this stuff, who have no more knowledge than I do It's all bullshit, bunk. So I'll use the radio. One of the things I will say I did whenever I'm working on a book, do like some deep background research Visited the Oracle at Delphi in Greece, went to the British Museum And this is to your point about how we it's so hubristic And I looked at the earliest forms and there was other then you move forward The British Museum has of King Ashburn, a pal of Assyria, and he had collected what he said in his writings, cuneiform writings, in this one place and there were little maps of the world And this this idea that we know everything is always very interesting Yes, it's interesting. Okay. Some more questions from the audience. Wouldn't someone with ESP of being a test subject? I mean, I wouldn't know. I knew you were going to ask that. I mean, the psychics among them, he was a super interesting one And, you know, I spent a lot of time talking with them about what and whether or not And, you know, I think they're But basically what it comes down to is the different individuals that are psychic really I mean, they have no they have no they have no attachment I mean, often when the media comes in it becomes a big story. But for the most part, the way the same way that probably Mozart Right. Were the They're not at the strategic level, but Whether any are there any known instances? I don't know of any instances, because it all rested of this idea of the Huberman, and then therefore, to prove of the And so he was really playing with that you know, man. And that's what most of his supernatural that's And so I think that's and the supernatural really comes from, because it's associated That's why the government That's why it's now since making. I've actually got to be right, actually. Right. I've got a just a general question It looks like as a journalist, you focus mostly on big government the Defense Advanced So this is like the big government think tank looking into some way out and Area 51 and now, of course, Operation about how Allen Dulles war criminals into America, so that we could take advantage like just big governmental Where does that come from, do you think? How did that become your beat? I mean, I've always been looking I went I was I'm a failed novelist. I went away to boarding school at age 15 with the typewriter And I spent decades, you know, with no one reading anything And a mentor said to me when I was actually 35 years old, I mean, And she said, Start making stuff up. Just go after the truth. It's the truth that matters. And so I began my career as a journalist. And she also said to me, that I had a little trouble And she said, You can't just run with Right. We'll leave that to you. You know, you need to follow that. You know, you've got to develop craft And that's what I did. And I just worked as a journalist doing I was a financial reporter That's a different story. And I and I got onto the path of writing And so this is now your thing. I mean, it's what you're known for, and I mean, it's And it's funny because what they would call in television you know, Some big thing or happen through the commercials It's the same kind of technique. You don't want the person to go to sleep. So you want to have some. I mean, like, Well, it's like that's what I forget the guy's name. He would follow this research And I'm like, Oh, come on, man. Well, fate and circumstance did intervene I was doing a talk at the library, which I'm a big And there happened to be a Hollywood sitting in the audience, And right when I finished the book I hit send to my editor and was like, Hmm, And then I get this email I'm the producer of the new Tom Clancy Jack Ryan, And I thought, you know what, I'm So I went and did, you know, wrote the new series Course, it came around So I have now written But I really enjoy reporting. It's where my heart and soul is. And I'm so happy to be at a place you know, the job of the reporter I mean, I write right down the middle. There's so much polemics You can read Pro Psychic Functioning, But I try to tell the story, as I do Interview people They can't both be right So what is the story? Well, you get to think about it, because really, They're about point of view, you know, I mean, that's when you read about that. They're lost on the moon and he and Alan No, we have passed this rock. You know, it's so simple. Right. Amazing thing. Yeah, it's interesting. I think there's probably and I don't mean way against journalism because there are But of course, The line between fiction as as bright as a lot of people think. I think I think it might be. It's all storytelling. You're taking facts, but there's no You have to do something to arrange You're using the phrase I wouldn't use that phrase myself just because there's one side the middle is the accurate side. Like people who laughed at Ed Mitchell, The correct story there, I think for me, is that this guy did something did something worthwhile, are making fools of themselves, And that's definitely not a middle So on counterbalance. I'll tell you something when I was writing the Operation I mean, if there was ever a time meaning an opinion, it was that the national security, you know, documents I found one war criminal, literally. Adam Ambrose, Hitler's chemical weapons you know, was released, and brought and part of an Atomic Energy This was reprehensible. And I'm there working with my editor. And he said to me at one point, Well, let's just have a little why don't you do some more interviews you've touched upon that that there was these German scientists to work on our weapons And it was like, Like I had to go back for more of that. Like, didn't I say enough of that? I mentioned it And I did. And you know, when I was doing I would go on a very, and they would say to me, Annie, You know, you uncovered all this that even though these were horrible it was necessary I would go on a very liberal television and they would say, Annie, my God, I mean, you showed us that we should never in a million years Well, they both read the same book, right? The conservative show Americans can't learn foreign languages, Russian or anything else. It's like that joke. You know, if you speak three languages, bilingual, one language American. Does Ed Mitchell did Ed Mitchell ever mention Great question. I didn't talk about that with Mitchell, but I did talk about it And I write about Young in the book to think about with the idea Interestingly, Young spent decades talking to Wolfgang Pauli, theoretical physicist, about ESP. And we know now only recently, that Pauli was actually Jung's patient, and they would have these discussions So Paola would walk into places or something would fall over. He was at Princeton once, and Pauli became fascinated that the human body And the two of them, Young Is ESP, fact or fiction? Is it fantasy? Is it science? Is it supernatural? And it was young who spoke of and gave me that you must define what is possible with the criteria of the age And so what was possible 50 years ago, even, you know, and what is possible now where as I wrote in my last book now have a supercomputer quadrillion calculations per second. And as I reported in the DA the computer was a human. There was no computer, it was a human. And army computer was a human being with a pen and a pencil This was this was the term, This was the government term, you know, von Neumann was working on ENIAC and Maniac that first came. You know, we're talking That's what the computer was only at World And look where we are now, 93 quadrillion I mean, DARPA's modeling, at Los Alamos, I mean, what is possible now? Artificial intelligence This is what we must define. That is the criteria for this age, these subjects and what is possible. So. Having done so much research in this area, what do you think is likely that the government I mean, I can't imagine them But why I what I find scary I got to stay inside the lines It's all going to go really badly know. I mean, look, I write about this I mean, there's no doubt that the the Most so way out. I, I see as scary when you're talking I mean, you know, This is not science fiction. This is science fact. I write about it brain chips you know, hybrid steerable animals This is real. This is not fiction. So where DARPA has gone with this now, It's interesting initially gets deployed by the military It's like Thanatos I don't know whether she should be encouraged Have you had any access to the psychics That's a resounding yes. But. But. Yes, I interviewed a number of them. And, you know, what was my is a woman named Angela della Fiore. I tell her story in the book and why she was particularly interesting and the defense, whereas the CIA was going psychic functioning, you know, It's biological. Physiological It's certainly what they're looking at The Defense Department They decided that soldiers And that's where grave problems arose, because that seems So you have Angela della Flora, over at DIA, and she's writing reports, And, you know, she got wind of this secret classified program Because she's psychic. And she went to the general. She went around the military chain to around all these soldiers went to the general and said, I'm always you know, I'm always like, And the general is like, She gave him a psychic reading. You know, he's crying Another great scene in the book, right? And then, you know, because you now have a woman who went around the chain of the military And what the heck is she doing on the program And what but what also happened was that and shoulders above the trained psychics, And she has some really remarkable and ended up I have photographs of her getting these because no one could talk about it, that they're psychic. Viewers are supposed to be trained And the whole thing was just a mess. And that actually irritated the fact that she described herself You know we're not psychic. Yes. Yes, They're like we have worked hard Right. You know, they called her a witch. I mean, you know, oh, my God. I can't believe that's a nice segue, we did not answer this But what was the the outcome of at Mitchell's Yeah. I mean, they were abysmal. They were part of the colossal failures, And what was interesting for Mitchell from the moon, he quit Nassau, divorced dedicated his life to ESP research, And that was marvelous. These documents I was able to get from the FOIA request And one of the things Mitchell did was to bring Uri Geller to the United States. He was kind of the front man for Geller, because Geller was a spoon bender working with this guy because what if he could disrupt And Mitchell and Geller became friends. And so what was interesting I think I did the last interviews And Geller, who's still alive, And Geller had what Mitchell wanted Right. And so there it's this amazing kind of He was 22 and had all this press and had And he's on Johnny Carson and he camp and spoons And Ed Mitchell, he said, would send him in the astronaut suit, saying go early But Mitchell wanted to be psychic. He wanted so badly. And since those moon experiments did not he felt sort of let down by the fact It's it's strange to me in the military that you could take anyone in another framework that way you could probably take anyone but you can't take just anyone The military knows this. And so, like, not a sniper. Only certain Anybody can become a better marksman, So why would. They lose or it's interesting how they would lose that common sense framework that has guided them well and suddenly think that anybody And that actually is a nice segue which is what is the potential to become a psychic or precognitive? If you had to ask a question. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, Every psychic person I've interviewed for you know, that they were born that way, and I write this in the book, And then it went away. It sort of was beaten out of them, if And then circumstance and fate intervened later in life. But what I also found super interesting, was that nearby at the Stanford lab there is a new program I don't want to give it away But the CIA doctors the seventies have been working on what the question asked, this idea and looking at DNA of deeply All of many of the people who participated and looking at the features with incredible, extraordinary detail to determine if there is what they call the genomics of super normality, which is kind of a fancy way of saying, Whoa. So. And if you could do it for the paranormal, also for, say, musical ability, intelligence, generally, physics ability. This is right. Like, again, this is where journalism This is like the boys from Brazil, if you all remember that story Well, what I think is interesting is that the the lab, it's called I mean, Professor Gary all kinds of awards for work But the reason why they're looking super normality is because that's the area and what they are also looking for. You mean the government that that worked on the on and also what they're looking for are there drugs to enhance it The government's always experimenting and prohibiting them to the citizenry. Just seems like I mean, and then they use Try not to get irritated by these things. And I just I can't help myself. Was there, Aesop, in the animal kingdom government programs? That's a great question. I mean, I was surprised to find One of the earliest programs Ryun, Do these psychic experiments with dogs The dog program. They were specifically trying But it seems very weird because dogs have this amazing, And so they were But yes, there have been programs them in the narrative. So many questions about Ed Mitchell, for no particular reason other than And he seemed like such an amazing person kids press who just love to find someone Did Ed Mitchell ever find out who spilled I guess he just knew it was one of them. Yeah, I don't. I don't think he ever knew. Yeah, well, there were only three people He had three people back on earth. Yeah, that'll be a great thing Like, Like my friend back on Earth, he had three people back on Earth So it must have been one of three. And unfortunately, Ed Mitchell, as we So he wasn't even able to, you know, like Where I'm laughing where some protesters in Iran And he said, I just always want to know where do they get those flags There are a store in Tehran you know, for angry mobs to burn. Anyway, where did the daddy They actually sort of heard about them, It was kind of like, And what was interesting and you can see the psychics were not allowed to know It was like the client back east. But the psychic was always like, I mean, they were psychic. Right. It's awesome. Hmm. Okay. So. Some novelists just give me some easy laps Were psychics ever drafted military? Was it always voluntary? Oh, that's a that is a good question. Not that I know of. I mean, can you imagine? I think the psychic would know But coming. Stephen King dealt If there are any Stephen King fans who remember his book It's it's not that I take any pleasure In fact, psychologically, difficult for us to acknowledge all the bad acts of our own government for us to imagine or might have done bad things We've psychological defenses But if you just look at the history government, it's horrific and not very well known. And if you're curious, it's Just Google US human experimentation. And if you took the country names and someone said to you, okay, who do you think You would say, Mengele, maybe Japanese Unit 731. You would be quite resistant that your own government I could go on about this. It's pretty it's really gruesome stuff. So the notion that in the name of national security, the US government someone who had thought had something I mean, I don't even think I would the particulars but I wouldn't be worried Eisler That's way too far out there. It seems almost obvious to me. See. Has there been an instance of ESP being used in the Situation Room Most definitely. I mean, particularly Angela della Fiora. She was relayed many experiences to me that had to do with looking for hostages, and that is incredibly intense they would grab her on a Sunday and say, And she would be sitting there in a room that a William Buckley or a Colonel Higgins was kidnaped, was, intelligence from Mossad, was saying and the word from Hezbollah was that he was about to be killed Incredible pressure on that at least the way she relayed it to me this person's life is in your hands And so, yes, I think I think it would carry an enormous burden I might be misremembering his name, general and high official in Naito, Who was kidnaped. Was it in Italy, I don't remember. The US government employed psychics to try to find him. That's right. Well, and I and I interviewed General Dozier story, is the highest ranking general and he was released. But even before that, At the time, and you have Anwar Sadat assassinated So it was just like All these leaders were targets. Secret Service was on the job. The psychics were working for the, And one of the psychics out here that has nothing to do with it. It has to do with And he suddenly says, general is going to be kidnaped And he even describes like a blue panel and a, you know, a window of time And so Interpol sends out an alert. And General Dozier is kidnaped I mean, it's the details are in there. They come straight out of declassified It's remarkable. But Dozier downplays all that, right? He does. Dozier downplayed it all, but then they put the psychics on the beat They send one of the main characters who started this whole program. They send him to Italy. So he's like in the field I mean, But yes. DOZIER And according to Dozier, he was I mean, it's just an amazingly human sending out these kind of good vibes to Right. Makes sense. And the psychics are trying to locate him. And they later interpreted that that was like some kind of psychic Well, I interviewed him I was I was rescued by the Italian commandos, because, again, he's and he's allowed to be and the psychics And he does, too. But there was no doubt that that warning, was factual, intense and inarguable. But the question that the scientists And ultimately, and it didn't save him. Yeah. How do you skeptics explain that? Pretty extraordinary. I don't even want to call it a coincidence Was it a coincidence or not? The fact that someone predicted general was going in, ET cetera. How is that explained? There's large numbers theory, The 700 monkeys typing for 700 years. I mean, the best the best answer have an answer for everything, by the way, will have an answer for everything. I mean, they could say, you and I are both Right. But again, I mean, my favorite story, it's But in the acknowledgments one of these experiences just made my jaw drop with like, How could anyone? I mean, I had to pull my car over go where I was going And I'm like, And then the punch line was the, you know, Statistical Society comes on the radio what just what the story that was just It was simply statistics. And he gives this whole big pitch. And my head was spinning. I was like, Wow. I mean, you could interpret anything Apparently so, yeah. Okay. We've reached the point in our program last question So anyway, my question is this. As a journalist and as a citizen, how do you feel about the research the U.S. government Are there Would you like more transparency? I mean, if you could just design to be happening or not happening, I don't know that it's really my position to sort of decide what, But what I would say is my position as And what I am grateful for and continue the military and intelligence scientists who generally are older and who believed in their work when they were doing it and believe However, not just about the success stories if you will, but they go on the record And that tends to be And I think that's super important, honestly and openly, then you can begin to I mean, not me, can look and say, wow, it's It's important to recognize getting lost and to deal with that so that those same That's why you want to have a map even on the moon. Our thanks to Annie Jacobsen, former Times magazine and author of Phenomena Government's Investigations Kinesis. We want to remind everyone here She'll be signing copies I'm Barry Eisler. And now this meeting The place