Black with white stripes or white with black pattern is decided when some specialized cell appear black and the ones left out appear white, so I guess you're black with black and white the case when you're first born. You are now a or zeeebra if you're wrong. Within 20 minutes you moves, which is why mom has to isolate you from bonding with her alone so you can learn her unique ready to show yourself off so go and see the unique characters. Oh everyone kind of just looks that uh that's okay, I guess. This is your harem, and their offspring, all led by one stallion, You all stick together and form part of one stand out among the other harems, nevermind. At [Horn twice] herd scatter and you're left frozen in panic. A are both pointless so all you can do is stare [Kick sound] [Falling sound] [Shield sound] a threat to a fully grown zebra, and you've got really that long because there isn't much avoid, you are now an adult zebra. As a female held in your honor. All the other stallions are Usually this would involve lots of nasty biting the winner has emerged you head off to join group on the fringes of the herd having failed at young you'll get there one day. For now you'll group. Now that you're an adult you start to why do we all have these really noticeable black help you blend in with the background. Well it's stripes are usually good for, just openness, that wants to hide being very noisy and legging in doesn't seem to be your goal. Hmm. It's the dry gather in the thousands which of course attracts now and these guys are a little worse, but at 350 [Stampede sound] them. Joining your migration are hundreds of characters. You're a pioneer grazer, mowing down usually with your spade shaped front teeth. But less efficient digestive system. You compensate passes through you much quicker, meaning there's anyway, so it doesn't matter that the grass is to spend as much as 80% of your day eating, wildebeest come in. They benefit from access to below and you benefit by getting to hide behind for the LOLz. Using your hard hooves to you travel hundreds of miles in search for nice to stand watch due to your almost owl level night you're all the same. Go get your seven hours. watering hole. Wonder where that came from? As you to make some complex facial expressions. Maybe there's another tournament, why not have another to yourself about how it's not fair, and that and that you deserve a harem, you notice a approached by a water spirit who speaks of another better fit for you. You look back at the herd and there's far too many of them for you to ever the mountains, that sounds perfect. You head west oh wow I didn't know you could climb like that, in before you can show everyone you're different, your neck skin. You are now a mountain zebra. As something following you. It appears that you've them. There's a good reason foals shouldn't come across a lone mare. Must be the mum. Time to then she'll have to become your first recruit your harem up and running. Oh great must be her [Slap sound] now that that's out of the way you can get on with bulge of fat on the back of your neck that makes that too. Well I bet she can't sleep standing... with now. After you've bonded with her for a bit around. You've got a solution. Using your shovel stream bed, reaching the subsurface water and As you stare into the water you see your stripes What if they're to confuse or dazzle predators? from the group. Well you all scatter in different afar it makes the group look smaller, so an easier maybe it's to... Oh what's that. Another harem, opportunity. Every reign must come to an end, infiltrate the harem build up some support and nature forces him to. Nice now you've got a whole First thing you do is show them how awesome you too, didn't even look difficult. Well you're always make you unique. Ah not again, everyone run. Oh wait no, you [Kick sound] [Falling sound] all the time. And now you're all sweaty. I doubt the other option of rolling around in the dirt and this looks good... uh you like this new, style and thought having a harem would be great but all you after this lot. Not to mention the recruitment and to being important, but this all takes a lot of the water spirit speaking of one more rare species extra mass, paint on some even thinner stripes and what's this. that's not good. Over short distances lions will get you, so you of steam. Nice now that you're in the clear zebra you no longer form any harems and instead in and out as they please. What does he want? one of the few reasons that you might have [Long pause for VAR check] Same as Mountain zebra you dig out a watering as much water as you can to last you for the next eh he's all right, for now. As you wait you go back to Life's big question. Horse flies. sucking creatures. Studies have found that you are colored surfaces. Something to do with distorting warm blood. Yeah that one does seem the most Okay so now the other male has to go. You or first female, and her foal. It's not yours but mum to stay around. The females have free choice courting rituals. Success again, but now she's whilst you get... nothing. Hmm this seems a bit with their kids for you to look after. You know kids to defend whilst their mothers gulp down it's like having a harem but nobody cares about grooming. Maybe you should just go back to where wash off the stripes and head back south. You are back to the bachelor group, or get auctioned away your adventure to your fellow bachelor you've gone through. He tells you the one your stripe pattern. You all have your very to prove anything, you've always been unique. [Music]