When you look at a petrol and a diesel engine, And that makes sense. Because after all, both are internal combustion engines. They do their combustion internally. Which results in them having very similar anatomy. Both petrol and diesel engines have a some camshafts, some valves, some The anatomy is very similar. What's different is the way they do their combustion. And a more accurate term Spark ignition. And compression ignition, engines. Now, all commercially available petrol Meaning that they have a spark And what the spark plug does Now, to create a spark this spark is supplied by the vehicle's ignition system. On older vehicles, the ignition system But on newer vehicles, the And instead we have coil packs, But regardless of the kind of the ignition As we said, they provide voltage to the spark plug A lot of voltage Usually in excess of 20,000 volts. And what this voltage does, is or the air-fuel mixture in the spark channel. And what this does, is that it converts the gases from electrical insulators to electrical conductors. Allowing a current of electrons to arc to the side or ground electrode of the spark plug. This current of electrons And causes the gases there to rapidly expand outward. This starts a chain reaction known as deflagration. Now, deflagration is a bit of a weird is that it's a combustion process that Meaning that the first layer of hot gas and so on, until all of the gases are burned away. From an engineering perspective, Because it's pretty even and controllable. And it's ideal to get an object moving. For example, a piston in a cylinder bore. Now, let's see how a diesel initiates combustion. Well, in a diesel engine, there's no spark plugs. No spark, no ignition coils, none of that. A diesel initiates combustion The air in a diesel engine gets compressed And as we know, as the air gets And as the piston in a due to the compression, that it's as it's introduced to the combustion chamber. And this is why a diesel engine is also What creates ignition, is And what's different isn't just it's also the timing A petrol engine introduces fuel earlier than a diesel. During the intake stroke of the engine. And the fuel and air inside a petrol before the spark plug fires. Compared to this, a diesel During the compression stroke of the engine. Fuel can only be introduced when the And of course, the air is hottest And this is why the diesel, just before the piston hits top dead center. Unlike petrol engines, which can feature Or both. A modern Meaning that fuel is directly injected into the Or more commonly, an injector. And when a diesel injector fires, it sends a combustion chamber, that is now filled This is the beginning of the injection process. As the fuel droplets meet with the hot air, The piston continues to travel towards top Which now reaches a temperature high At this point, rapid ignition of the small The time between the start of the is called the 'ignition delay' in a diesel engine. The rapid ignition that occurs creates a sharp cylinder pressure spike. This rapid ignition of the initial premixed fuel and the sudden increase in the combustion pressure, is what generates the characteristic This initial part of the combustion process because combustion may start at any As injection continues, the new fuel is Which dramatically increases the rate of vaporization, and this fuel starts burning almost Because the uncontrolled combustion stage has raised the temperature enough that combustion in the following stage can This part of the combustion process After the injection process is fail to create a combustible mixture These less volatile molecules piston travels further down the bore. And most will be burned away by the time Now, that we have seen the differences in the let's see how these differences engines having very different natures Now, one of the key differences between petrol and diesel engines, All you have to do is sit inside Petrol and diesel engines Most diesels rev to anywhere Compare to this, petrol engines rev much higher Anywhere between 6000-9000 RPM. Now there's three main reasons The first reason, and the one is that diesel engines require They need strong internals, much higher combustion pressures What's especially that occur during the uncontrolled If the engine internals were fragile, they would simply fall apart during This is why diesels need strong, But heavy internals have a price. They are harder to spin, The second reason why diesels don't rev as high, is that most diesel engines Meaning that they have a much longer And although this is good, because it allows diesels to make a It also too limits max RPM potential. But the third, and perhaps most important reasons, why diesels don't rev as high, is that they A petrol engine that has a spark plug, can fire the spark plug at any point in This is called ignition advance. And petrol engines rely on it to keep As the RPM increases, And the spark plug is going to fire to account for the increased speed of the piston. To make sure that the frame And that maximum combustion pressure when the piston starts Now, a diesel engine can't do this. It cannot have a range of ignition start the combustion event sooner or later And the air is always fully compressed At top dead center. And although diesel engines Due to the compression ignition nature of the much more narrow, compared to the range And this is why diesels usually where petrol engines start incorporating Now, there's another factor on top of all of this. And that's the diesel fuel And this is another reason why high RPMs At high piston speeds, the piston And the slowly propagating flame front By the time maximum combustion the piston would be too far down the bore And the diesel would actually But thinking that not revving high is a The diesel doesn't rev high, It does everything it needs And although this does result compared to the petrol, it does Diesels are long lived. The heavy internals, strong internals, and the We all know that engine wear exponentially increases with RPM. And this is why When the piston inside your engine is at of its stroke, at bottom dead center, that's When your piston is at the top, at the top dead center, that's the smallest volume of your cylinder. The ratio, the difference between these two volumes, determines the compression ratio of your engine. And it's a very important number for every engine, because it determines a lot of things for the engine. Now, when it comes to diesels, diesels have a And this results in one of the few very noticeable anatomy differences Here we have a combustion And here we have a combustion chamber, or lack Here we have a typical modern petrol engine piston. And here we have a typical modern diesel engine piston As you can see, the smallest volume However, this volume would be too large for the diesel. So it uses instead a void in the piston to And of course the void in the piston leading to a smaller smallest volume of a diesel. Which results in a higher compression ratio. Now, a higher compression ratio is better. Because the more you compress the air and fuel, the higher the force applied onto the piston. To help you visualize why a higher compression ratio is better you can imagine a stick of dynamite One small room, and one large room. So what do you think? The walls of which room are going to Of course the walls in the small room. Because they're closer to the source of And the same thing happens in an engine. The closer the piston to the the more force is going to be And that means, that with a higher It also means that your engine is more because you're harnessing So, why don't petrol engines run the high Well, they can't. Because they're knock limited. Now, the combustion process inside the petrol And all the air and fuel should be burned When combustion spontaneously occurs That's called knock. Knock sharply raises the combustion pressures inside the engine, and if it continues to occur over time, it will destroy a petrol engine. This is why of course it's undesirable. Now, knock can occur inside a petrol engine, because the petrol engine is compressing both air and fuel. And if there's enough compression, Then the And this is why petrol engines must To account for knock, and to Compared to this, a diesel engine compressing only air. There's no fuel, so there's nothing Inside a diesel engine, fuel is introduced This is why knock isn't an Because they don't have to worry about knock, Anywhere between 15:1 to 23:1. Compared to this, a modern usually has a compression Although are some outliers, that run a 14:1 compression ratios They're an exception. And the average is between 11 &amp; 12 to 1. As you can see, much much lower than a diesel engine. But forced induction petrol engines have to run an even a lower compression Because they have to account for or supercharger, is sending in already compressed air. And if you compress it even further, then the chance for knock increases. And this is why forced induction petrol And compensate with a slightly This is also why tuning forced is more challenging than tuning and turbo-charge diesel. And this is why you can run more boost Now, let's see how all of this results in And petrol engines being better at making horsepower. Now, torque is essentially force applied at a distance. This is what the measurement units for torque express after all. When you're tightening down bolts with a wrench, The force is what you're doing with your hand. And the distance is the length of your wrench. This is why you use a longer wrench Because you're increasing the distance Resulting in more torque. Now, the same thing is actually Your hand, or the force, is inside the engine, which applies The distance, the length of the wrench, is actually the length of the Now, because diesel engines have more stroke, They actually have more distance And because they compress the air and fuel Which means more force in the distance and force equation. And all this results in diesels making more torque. What is horsepower? Well, horsepower is torque x RPM. Now, petrol engines make less torque, but they rev higher Much higher. And this results results in petrol engines making more horsepower. Petrol engines typically have a With some modern petrol engines managing A 37% thermal efficiency means, that 37% of the energy generated by combustion is turned into useful work. The rest is simply wasted as heat. Compared to this, diesels are more efficient, and can manage a thermal efficiency of around 40% to 45%. So why are diesels more efficient? Well the reason number one, is Because diesels are able to they can squeeze more energy out The other reason why diesels are more Now, the stoichiometric air-fuel ratio for diesel fuel is 14.5 to 1. The stoichiometric air-fuel ratio A stoichiometric air-fuel ratio, is an ideal air-fuel ratio, at which all of the fuel is burned away. With none of the air left behind. So, for a ratio of 14.7:1, we need 14.7 units of air. For every single unit of fuel. When you increase the amount of air in When you reduce the amount of air in this Now, petrol engines depending on the load, Typically, at idle and at cruise But at wide open throttle at full load, petrol engines must run rich. Compared to this diesels are very different. Diesels never run rich. They always run lean. Modern turbocharged diesel engines can manage As you can see compared to And there's a lot more air And only at wide-open throttle at full load do diesels sort of start to approach a stoichiometric air-fuel ratio. But again, even at full load And this means that inside a diesel engine And this leads to a difference in how petrol When you press down on the throttle you're actually operating The throttle body is a butterfly-valve, which The more you press on the throttle pedal, the more the butterfly valve is open, and Then the engine's ECU uses various sensors, to determine based on the amount of air, how When you press down the throttle you're not operating any sort of butterfly valve. Instead, you dictate the amount of fuel that goes into the engine. Now, don't be confused. Many modern diesels actually do have something But when you're pressing on a throttle pedal, The butterfly valve on the diesels, is of the engine's exhaust gas recirculation system. So, why don't petrol engines air-fuel ratios as diesel engines do? Well, petrol engines can't do this. Because the air-fuel mixture in In diesel engines the air-fuel A homogeneous air-fuel mixture, A heterogeneous, or a stratified air-fuel mixture, means that only one part of the air is And this allows them to run extremely lean. An extremely lean condition in a petrol engine is running a lot hotter, and is also more prone to knock. And this is why petrol engines must avoid it. But another reason why diesel than petrol engines, is the fuel itself. Diesel fuel is composed of longer chains And because of this, it is more energy dense. For the same amount of volume, diesel fuel But fuel efficiency is only one Now, diesel-engined cars, and the light trucks, and other vehicles, are typically more expensive to purchase when new. They're also usually more expensive in the used car market. Diesel engines are more complex. Which means they're more expensive to manufacture. Which leads to a higher end-price for consumers. Another thing that has been changing for the As well as stuff like the diesel gate scandal, has been driving change in diesel related taxation and legislation. Which means that it has been changing the resale values of diesels in various markets around the world. In some markets where diesels used this has started changing, and it's now hard As a typical rule of thumb, you have to drive You have to cover enough miles to harness Otherwise, if you're not covering enough miles, a petrol is likely going to make more financial sense. Traditionally the emissions of petrol and diesel between environment harming CO2, and Diesels emit less CO2, simply because they use less fuel. But the high temperature, high pressure, actually favors the production of Now, things aren't actually that simple. And they aren't really black and white. Fact is, that many air quality monitoring agencies have done many independent road tests of petrol and diesel engines. And almost all of them have found that the CO2 Usually around 3-5 grams of CO2 per km And when it comes to nitrogen oxide and soot particle emissions, modern diesel engines, of a Euro 6 or equivalent Because they have some very complex emissions equipment. Stuff like diesel particulate filters, and to either trap or chemically convert of the nitrogen oxides and soot particles. So when they're new, both petrol and diesel engines are pretty clean, as long as they're maintained properly. Problems actually start to arise, when diesel And this is where the diesel is at a disadvantage. Because the emissions equipment of It's also very expensive. And the replacement of a diesel particular can amount to as much as 15 to 30% And this makes it very hard to justify this replacement for an owner of a used diesel vehicles. And this is why, some owners look to less efficient emissions, just so they could pass an emissions And an emission test, at the end of the day, actually monitors the vehicle only once every one or two years. The remaining 364 days, the vehicle isn't really monitored. And it's free to do quite a bit of pollution. Something else that puts the diesel at is the diesel engines are heavier and more complex. Meaning that they use more materials and more parts to be made. And this is why their manufacture creates more pollution. On the other hand, diesel engines typically Now, fun is an entirely subjective thing. And the reality is that a lot of fun can be That being said On a tight, twisty road, it's very It has a wider power band and a better soundtrack. And although it will give you less mpg on a road like this, it's going to give you more Smiles per gallon Another thing that works against the diesel, when it comes to fun, is weight. Diesel engines are typically pretty heavy, usually noticeably heavier than an equivalent petrol engine. And this of course negatively impacts And this is why for example, front-wheel drive going to be more prone to understeer, compared to But saying that diesels aren't Diesels can provide the sensation of massive On top of this, diesels have greater autonomy. Which means And this can be very important. And this is diesels are your best ally, when it comes to long-distance And there you have it. That's pretty much it for today's video. I hope this comparison between helps you better understand how they're different. And why they're different. And how this impacts their As always, thanks a lot for watching. I'll be seeing you soon. With more fun and useful stuff. On the D4A channel.