[MUSIC PLAYING] Well, we're finally here. A synopsis of general builds on these If you haven't seen go watch them in back here after the music to [THEME MUSIC] Newton's and Einstein's comes down to competing an inertial frame of reference. Newton says that a frame on and relative to that frame, accelerates down by a gravitational force. But Einstein says, nuh-uh, that behaves like a So the apple's frame is inertial accelerating upward. You just get a false impression downward for the same reason forward gives you that there's a backward force. So who's right? Well, between our and your comments, we've seems internally inconsistent. Remember that inertial Well, the apple So if inertial frames define the how can both of those Today we're finally going to Einstein's model of the as Newton's. Step one is to express both viewpoints in geometric since that's the only in a reliably objective way. Remember, humans experience about the world moving through space over time. But even in a world we already know that can all mislead us. So to be sure we're talking to just artifacts we have to translate into tense-less statements about spacetime. Let's start with Newton. He says that spacetime is flat. Jut think about it, on the flat observers, the world lines are straight, indicating This captures Newton's idea shouldn't accelerate relative Newtonian gravity would we introduced, like would cause some world lines to accelerated. This is a bit oversimplified, Now for Einstein's position. This is actually more be easier to explain if I our old friend the two of the sphere. A tiny patch at the And within that patch, two great But suppose the ant lives on an actual to draw an xy grid on a with its x-axis and the y-axis along Relative to this grid, looks bent, so the ant concludes But you see the His grid is distorted. You can't put a big, without bunching it up. Try it withs some graph It doesn't work. Stated another way, a local Euclidean grids in tiny So the ant can use his axis within a patch, but Flat space definitions apply over small OK, Einstein's position the same mistake as the ant. Inertial frames, that are the spacetime equivalent If spacetime is curved, are only valid over So when an observer says that the falling he's pushing his frames past just like the ant did. In other words, don't exist in spacetime. However, global They're observers that Their world lines and their axis and clocks can provided that we reset in each successive And by the way, are not intended to make On the contrary, they're your excessive reliance on your more free to accept Remember, no one can really There is no spoon. Now the world line turns out to be a geodesic. It has no forces no need to invent gravity. OK, but what about two box, like at the end of our Remember, they get Now according to Newton, that fall radially instead of down. But according to because the apples are on that, since spacetime is just like on the sphere. In contrast, the world line is not a geodesic. It has a net force on it, So does that mean has to be expanding radially? Well, be careful. In order to compare you'd need a single across spacetime patches. But that frame So any conclusions have to be interpreted OK, so Einstein's time sounds like But then again, so does that has gravity So once again, which The answer is, whoever agrees And there's over a century Now, we haven't fully fleshed yet, but there's one that I can use to show you just based on what we've seen in It's a cool argument, 50 years ago by physicist Alfred Fire a laser pulse of a building up to a Now wait five seconds On a flat spacetime diagram the should be parallel Without making any assumptions light, that would be true that gravity slowed photons since both photons would Now if spacetime is flat, and on the roof should They're both stationary. Thus, the vertical lines at the should also be But if you actually you find the photons slightly more than The excess time is but any discrepancy are running at different rates. In which case, the opposite aren't congruent. And that's if spacetime is flat. Thus, the very existence of regardless of its that spacetime be curved. And that means game In fact, to the extent that we separately at all, most of that Newton would are due to curvature in time. The 3D space around Earth Those pictures that you see of a bowling ball deforms or even the pictures we they all suggests so they're somewhat misleading. Remember, a frame consists And around Earth, manifests itself in clocks So even though it's it's curved time that makes the looks spatially circular in too big a space time patch. So why is spacetime Unfortunately, the and good analogies But here's the flow Consider a region of spacetime. And remember, that means a locations. Its curvature in by how much energy is present of rules called, no surprise, So for example, say you of the sun into the Einstein What comes out is a map of spacetime neighborhood. Now when you translate into 3D spatial and temporal is planetary orbits radially inward you would see spatial or pretty much anything else attribute to a It's pretty amazing. I want to conclude with a of our viewers, Evan Hughes. If there's no gravity and then why do we keep Well, physicists As far as I know, most of to visualize or directly So we often think in because it's easier, and errors are usually small. We just remind ourselves that have to use with caution. But even when to relativity or string it's just a lot easier than say curvature of four [MUSIC PLAYING]