Welcome back, history lovers, to our video on a thrilling series of conflicts, spanning Europe. You will learn about great powers rulers scheming against each other and first opportunity. We will depict epic battles where the Swiss mercenaries lost their the battle of Pavia that marked the height You will see the evolution of warfare with weapon on the battlefield and the decline of force in the battle. So buckle up and enjoy this that had its beginning in the court of Milan... we are lucky to have the support of our of our appreciation, every week, we provide them anywhere else. Join their ranks via the link in schedule, get early access to all videos, voting be able to watch more than 100 exclusive The Italian peninsula of the Middle Ages split into numerous fiefs and city-states under the Kingdoms of Sicily and Naples in the south, parts of central Italy. The fourteenth century powers of Italy, especially for Milan, Venice, dominions over the smaller cities. The friction the next century and culminated with the Following the signing of the Peace of Lodi regional powers: the Duchy of Milan, the Republic and the Republic of Florence. A mutual defence and the four decades that followed were balance, overseen by Lorenzo de' Medici. while the Renaissance was flourishing in all however broken in the last decade of the century, The spark for the First Italian War was the Gian Galeazzo Sforza succeeded his father, of seven. His uncle Ludovico Sforza took over the duke to a life of pleasures and games, tampering and uninterested in the governance of the Duchy. granddaughter of the King of Naples Ferrante. the energetic Isabel sought the support With the looming threat of a Neapolese stance, Ludovico worried that he would lose he and his father-in-law, Ercole d'Este solicited the King of France Charles VIII, to come to a strategy already used in the past to The Kingdom of Naples, nominally vassal of Norman conquests in southern Italy and had later Anjou-Valois, and by the Crown of Aragon since to King Alfonso the Fifth of Aragon, and conflicts intermittently. After the extinction of the the kings of France inherited claims with the duchy of Provence and other fiefs. fought the English during the Hundred Years' the French mainland was mostly completed. The the Crown continued in the following decade and inheriting some of the lands of the Duke of with the Holy Roman Emperor. By the last decade of integrate the Duchy of Brittany and reformed its the resources to partake in an expedition that King Charles VIII was captivated by the which up to that point had been limited to the Republic. So after a few years of preparation and he departed France in August 1494 at the head swiss mercenaries and a modern artillery park. The a foothold from where to stage a crusade against as the final objective of the expedition. the infant Duke of Savoy, whose mother cordially, and then reached the Orleanese while his cousin Louis of Orleans led another army by Milanese governors. In the meantime, many to secure strong points and Ludovico Sforza had The king of Naples Alfonso the Second, who had not sat idly while the French prepared. He better known as Rodrigo de Borja, and made hiring condottieri from Lombardy and Lazio. He and the condottiero Gian Giacomo Trivulzio to At the same time, his brother Federico, 4000 Paolo Fregoso and Obietto Fieschi went to Liguria the Milanese and French garrisons in Genoa, which take Portovenere in July was followed by the but three days later Louis of Orleans with militias defeated the force and destroyed had to ignite revolts in the region. skirmished in September and October with the joint culminating with the Sack of Mordano. The castle Imola and Forli, was devastated by the French Naples and instead sided with Charles, limiting destruction of the surrendered town and the was a calculated strategy by the French king. which were characterized by defence, containment, the King wanted to plough through the peninsula and frightening his foes, a brutal tactic On the 21st of October, the sick Duke circumstances and his uncle Ludovico left Charles of Milan, which was confirmed by the Holy Roman month-long illness, decided to move along the to pressure the Florentines into submission. allied himself with Alfonso, but the Florentine grip on power was shaky. Charles traversed the formidable fortress of Sarzanello and his artillery and Swiss mercenaries by sea. French army and their artillery for months. the cannons were taken to the Florentine exclave the town was conquered and destroyed with killing the defenders and devastating other the sole objective of terrorizing the Florentines French king and surrendered the fortress together and Livorno, saving the king much time he would not popular with the Florentine population, who government influenced by the priest Savonarola. then entered Pisa hailed as a liberator from Pisa freedoms, though it is probable that was different from what Charles had intended. with his army into Florence where he stipulated the Tuscan cities until the end of the campaign After obtaining free passage through Siena, the throwing Rome into chaos. The two biggest rivals and Giuliano Della Rovere sided with the French to depose the corrupt Pope. The defensive line left vanguard advanced into Umbria, and from there control. A number of nobles and condottieri rioted, while the Colonna family, allies of Della the defence of the city untenable. Ferdinando entered Rome on the 31st of December. After a had barricaded himself in Castel Sant'Angelo, and provisions for his army, but he did not obtain the After a month in Rome, Charles left for Naples, had experienced until then. However, Naples was abdicated in favour of his son and left for pro-Angevine Neapolitan barons flocked to the the French as saviors. The few cases of local such as the castle at Monte San Giovanni. up camp first at San Germano and then at Capua rebelled and the condottiero Gian entering their service, and causing the scattering and lost support from everyone, escaped with his entered Naples on the 22nd of February 1495, with In just five months, the French king had traversed resistance against him had been pulverized. which shocked the contemporaries, scared the on the Italian peninsula. Ludovico il Moro, who into the expedition, found himself in a worrisome his title. In the spring of 1495, the League of France in Italy, which was formed by Spain, Milan, Italian states, although Maximilian von Habsburg Worried about being blocked in Southern Italy, Kingdom on the 20th of May, leaving behind half He reached Rome, which the Pope had left, keeping the Tuscan fortresses to the dismay of the accompanied by the same Genoese exiles the hopes of starting a rebellion there. At the same to screen him and conquered Novara with a force but was besieged at Novara by a Milanese force after sacking Pontremoli he crossed the Apennines, the assembled army of the League of Venice. condottieri hired by Venice, with only a main force was preoccupied at Novara. They were the Second Gonzaga. Sources conflict around the was composed of around 8600 heavy knights, 1500 800 stradioti, light cavalrymen originating from and melee weapons and a few artillery pieces, from Romagna, such as the leaders of Bologna, Charles army at Fornovo was composed of of heavily armoured knights, light cavalry, and 4000 infantry, including 3000 Swiss mercenaries and 42 cannons armed by 1000 men, for The vanguards of the two armies arrived in the a squadron of Italian light cavalry attacked the fortified their camp on the high ground. The the French camp while the complete armies arrived envoy to ask for free passage back to France. as the Venitian representatives did not between the many members of the League Charles waded the river and marched along three battlegroups, and assigning most of the to the vanguard led by Gian Giacomo Trivulzio they would have to cut through the enemies. decided to attack. He formed his army up into 3 the second half in reserve, with a considerable Gonzaga's strategy was to attack the three groups and mounted crossbowmen would circle around and with an artillery duel which was swiftly won the night it had rained heavily, making the a considerable obstacle, and the storm continued force in the center, as it was forced to cross attack against the center. In the meantime, the by the Count of Caiazzo attacked the vanguard, but they retreated back to camp. At the same time, soon started to loot the baggage train instead. though some drowned or refused to cross. but the terrain was unsuited for a cavalry charge of the army back to support the rearguard. was devastating for the Italian, who opted for a the clash, joining instead the looting of the outnumbered. Even then, the King was extremely for the sacrifice of the Count of Vendome. Many the second in command Rodolfo Gonzaga, who should that did not happen. On the Italian right, the reserve attempted to attack the artillery but was retreat and crossed the river, where many more having opened up a route back to France decided to army lost around 1000 men and the baggage train, it, while the Italians lost around 3000 to 4000 on the Italian side was attributed to the French Both sides claimed victory, as the Italians had to block Charles, while the French lost their historians give the victory to the French. Charles and then deviated to Novara, as both sides did in Piedmont waiting for reinforcements and was At Rapallo, part of the French fleet had been September with the rest of his frazzled army. By between France and Milan, with Ludovico turning right to use Genoa as a supply base to defend As Charles the Eight was leaving the kingdom of events in the south were not turning out in his the start, had been characterized by the arrogant of Naples and turning them against him. By the army of 6000 men disembarked in Calabria, but The previous king of Naples, Ferdinando, then the same day as the battle of Fornovo, he uprising. He began to besiege the two viceroy and many French and Neapolitan much of Campania had revolted, while the Venetians relief force coming by sea was scared away by After three months of siege, the viceroy promised within thirty days. An army composed of pro-French defeated a contingent loyal to Ferdinando the siege as they were repelled by the artillery caused by the approaching French, the viceroy and leaving a garrison in the two forts, Although Italian condottieri helped secure the Spanish army led by Gonzalo de Cordoba landings in Puglia. For the help he received, Calabria to Aragon and in Puglia to the Venetians. desertions caused by late payments, attempted point, the French were chased around central at Atella in July 1496 and were forced Ferdinando did not enjoy this victory, as he passed to his uncle Federico. The last French the next 2 years allowing Federico to pacify Pope after helping him recapture Ostia. the Tuscan city of Pisa became another important As soon as Piero de Medici had given the the Pisans rebelled and established a republic the city as a base to reach Naples and had to his friendship with the Florentines, who desired were received by deaf ears when Charles returned the battle of Fornovo, the king decided to give up too hard to defend. But while Livorno was handed in Pisa decided instead to sell the citadel to and Milan tried to sway Pisa to their side by Other cities sent money and supplies to Pisa, on their territory from Florence. They were but were fraught with internal divisions. Ludovico had invited the emperor-elect Maximilian started to emerge in the thirteenth century, they had influenced vast territories in Southern Emperor Frederick the Third had reunited the family, so when he passed away in 1493, he left modern-day Austria, Slovenia and parts of southern over the eastern inheritance of Burgundy, For Maximilian, the expedition to Italy was a and an opportunity to obtain the Imperial crown, Rome. He descended into Italy with 4000 men in besiege Livorno, but the staunch Florentine him to lift the siege. Defeated and humiliated, with the outcome, Ludovico started to recall become the de facto protectors of the city. between Florence and Venice, with military Appenine mountains. Ludovico looked for other himself with the Florentines, considered to the Ottomans to attack Venice. By early 1499, cost of fielding 20.000 men against Florence, and Venice made peace with Florence, obtaining a their protection over the old maritime republic. managed to fend off another siege in September of army. French and Swiss mercenaries made another in 1500, but after breaching the walls with earthen ramparts the Pisans had built within Charles had assembled a strong army but he unexpectedly died in April 1498. His cousin king made no secret that he intended to return to He decided to divorce Jeanne of France, and marry the widowed queen Anne of Brittany to needed papal authorization, which he obtained the title of Duke of Valentinois, a marriage Romagna, while the Borgia family promised Louis' interests in Lombardy came from a claim to France hindered this inheritance. Now with the could claim what he considered was rightfully alienated Venice and Louis reached an agreement army and attack Milan in exchange for Cremona, Ludovico's situation wasn't good: His main ally Swabian War, while the Neapolitans were late to see how the situation evolved. He tried while both the repair of fortifications and the raids took place in July, but the hostilities of August 1499: an army of 30.000 men led from Asti and bombarded Rocca d'Arazzo and while the population and defenders were massacred This terror and promises to lower taxes forced allowing the French to encircle a Milanese army leaving the army leaderless, while the defenders been unpopular, so he determined that it would be September with his loyal supporters and the 10 days after the French troops had entered men occupied the territories promised to them. for a month before returning to France. He set province, creating a Senate composed of local administering it. It did however not take long troops and the high taxes, so riots started in Ludovico Sforza descended from the Alps with January 1500 and occupied the northern valleys. Como fell on the 1st of February and two The 9000 strong French retreated west towards of the major cities. Sforza advanced towards them superior numbers. He headed to Novara in early the 20th. The two armies clashed outside of the but during the evening the Burgundians and the managing to obtain free passage back to their Swiss to escape, but the French captured him. He The French reoccupied Lombardy and the duchy was military presence: around 15000 men were left as held by French officers. Episodes of looting were required to pay an enormous fine, while the could choose between paying large sums of money Meanwhile, Cesare Borgia had already started his His father, Pope Alexander VI, appointed Cesare troops, bolstering Borgia's force to a total of Imola and Forli, headed by the regent Caterina the garrison of the fort surrendered in December, while Caterina retreated to Ravaldino. until the French cannons breached the fort. with Cesare taking Pesaro and Rimini. Only the in April 1501. Following this victory, Cesare were Bologna and Firenze, but Louis, concerned against those, though Castel Bolognese was solidifying his control over Lombardy, Louis now an obstacle in the King of Aragon Ferdinand II. finished the Reconquista conquering Granada, and long history of interests in Italy, and He had for a long time considered taking the Trastamara dynasty. In order to prevent another in autumn 1500 Louis and Ferdinand signed the former was given the title of King and while the latter received the title of Duke, were divided between the two. The hastily prepared in the hopes of creating space for his son, King Federico was unaware of the agreements prepared against the French invasion, Many of his barons, aware of the of the support and income the king relied upon. invaded the kingdom from the north, preceded by de Cordoba, the Gran Capitan, landed in Calabria left alone, without resources, and stunned by the Capua with 9000 men. Cannon fire was exchanged were breached, the defenders scattered and the of the Italian Wars. The French army reached in August. The city was forced to pay a fortune could reach an agreement with Louis and reobtain settle for a pension in France and the county The Spanish army was slower to take control army and had to besiege the city of Taranto Following the conquest of Naples, Cesare Borgia Urbino, Senigallia, and Camerino. But he had who were worried that they would lose their fiefs that he would pardon them, and instead massacred assassinated, the rival families banded together French. Borgia went to Lazio to confront them, It did not take long for France and Aragon to and Capitanata were ignored in the treaty of regions. Skirmishes between the contesting forces War. De Cordoba was ordered to not engage the so he retreated to Barletta, leaving garrisons in where the Iberians had superiority. In the Duke of Nemours, Louis d'Armagnac, The duke attempted to draw de Cordoba out for a but the Gran Capitan did not take the his towns and forts in the region. At the the military engineer Pedro Navarro repelled they negotiated a retreat back to Barletta. launched raids against each other, trying to provinces. Several duels were held between knights "Disfida di Barletta," where thirteen Italian a Spanish relief army coming from Sicily was and baronial army commanded by d'Aubigny. a victory against a French one off the coast of base. In the same month, an attack near Taranto leaving a small blockading force around De by sallying out and capturing the main French base By April, 2000 Landsknecht joined de Cordoba, on the 21st the Spaniards defeated Iberian infantry overwhelmed the Swiss pikes. with his army and was pursued by Nemours. The of the town of Cerignola after an exhausting march had arrived a few hours before and had set up was widened and an embankment was built in front while the French garrison in the town harassed German mercenaries and the 2000 light Spanish on the left flank under Colonna. These forces were while 800 light horses defended the right flank, men at arms. The French army, composed 3000 swiss pikemen, and 4000 French and Italian sunset. Nemours was compelled by his officers army had marched all day and lacked water. the Spanish gunpowder supplies, rendering their was a sign of god and that they would win. 250 himself frontally charged the Spanish center, but trapped between the pikes and the ditch that had created chaos in the attacking line, with many they were followed by the infantry who suffered they were flanked by the Spanish cavalry; de and many Spanish infantrymen jumped the ditch and their knives. In less than an hour, the army suffered 3000 casualties and more captured, only the rearguard under d'Alegre managed to It was one of the first times in history that With the total destruction of French armies the kingdom declared itself for the Spanish, The surviving French forces and allied barons were besieged by de Cordoba. Louis was not going men under Marquis of Saluzzo as the new viceroy lift the siege. At the same time, two armies and a third army was being assembled in Lombardy On August 18th, 1503, Pope Alexander passed Pope. The French army set up camp outside Rome francophile pope into office, but instead, the Pope as Pius III, leaving the French command the Pyrenees had been blocked either because so no more actions were taken on that front The confusion in Rome gave time to de Cordoba adversaries while slowly retreating. By the end of where they placed their camp on the while de Cordoba had retreated to the other The French army was composed of at least 8000 and Corsica, 1500 heavy and 3400 light horses. of which 2000 German, 300 men at arms, number of artillery pieces, the French The Spanish had already started preparing traversable points, where French attempts to cross November, the French army built a pontoon bridge which suppressed the Spanish cannons, arquebuses, disturb the construction effort with explosive crossed the bridge, where they destroyed the encampment. The Spanish and Italian cavalry where transalpine cannons floating on rafts were bridgehead on the left side of the river. The these successes, as their men were too exhausted the camps and to wait for the spring where better raids harassed both sides. The marshy lands armies miserable; the Italians in the French army created frictions between them and the transalpine who left his command on the pretext of sickness. along the river, many soldiers on both sides army back to the hills in healthier positions, as more Spanish reinforcements arrived, increasing cavalry. The condottiero d'Alviano suggested lines and on the morning of the 28th of of the french bridge under the cover of a heavy at arms crossed the bridge before the french the German mercenaries led by de Cordoba and 200 the French spearhead keeping them busy. The castle followed by those at Castelforte. The marquis a response, but the forces scattered and as many the Iberians. In the evening the main force began while others were lost in the river as boats sank. encampments empty and pursued the retreating assault by the Spanish was repulsed but the demoralized the French who escaped to Gaeta. 1300 lances, 3250 light horses, and 7400 The remnant of the French army retreated to Gaeta, army was allowed to return home and prisoners were that had not supported the Spanish would not be for the kingdom of Naples, which would remain in As the armies of France and Spain confronted another battle for the control of the City. Alexander VI had died in August 1503 and was a compromise between the rival factions in Rome. and a new Pope was elected, the powerful Giuliano Alexander's death meant that his son Cesare be arrested by Pope Julius and sent to Spain. politics following Louis' conquest of Milan, solicited to raid Italy by the prior Duke of the Sublime Porte, the Venetians took advantage of the Borgias, expanding their territory. The and after ascending to the throne, he proposed Lombardy. However, the Republic decided to profit of the Papal military. Julius vehemently protested assembling an army. In 1506 he occupied Perugia also negotiated with the major powers of Europe. in 1504 between Louis of France and Philip von mainland would be divided between the two. also struggled with problems in northern Italy: who following the Battle of Novara had occupied the French army. He was forced to relinquish raiding Lombardy, while other Swiss attempts Between 1502 and 1508, Florence struggled to bring Italian condottieri continued to no avail. The region and playing the interests of the major their independence, repelling a siege that had Pisan countryside was scorched, and their ports all support through the League of Cabray. On the finally surrendered on quite generous terms, as In Spain, the political situation changed in 1504 Ferdinand as the governor of Castille. In spring Habsburg entered Castille to take control of Ferdinand in the meantime had travelled to Naples the local army, removing Gonzalo de Cordoba from barons who had been loyal to France. June 1507 where they laid the groundworks for a the lands that once had belonged to the duchy help against the Swiss, while Ferdinand wished to was planned that Maximilian of Habsburg would also the states hostile to Venice created the League the Ottoman Turks out of Europe. But to reach Venice had to be destroyed for sowing division League were England, Hungary, France, Spain, while the Pope was initially not present. Venice, the Papal State from joining by offering some excommunication. After considering an alliance strategy of attrition characteristic of the the many conflicting interests in the League would The hostilities between Venice and the League commanded by the Governor of Milan Charles a small force there but retreated a few days at the head of an army of around 40000 men, while Niccolo Orsini and Bartolomeo d'Alviano, the first the latter appealing for more aggressive conduct the river Adda with his army and occupied Cassano but they did not attack each other. On the headed towards Crema. Orsini decided to move his from Crema and Cremona converged, and after The rearguard, composed mainly of infantry and a the French vanguard of swiss infantry, artillery, light rainfall. The Venetians retreated behind the assaults of the enemy cavalry first and of vineyards and muddy terrain up the slopes made to assault their positions. D'Alviano, who asked Niccolo Orsini for reinforcement, but he When d'Alviano arrived at the battlefield not wanting to suffer the enemy bombardment, the cannons. The French cavalry attacked their they themselves were charged by d'Alviano's men units of the French and Venetian army arrived, the center where the king himself was placed blocked D'Alviano's advance, turning the tide of force to the Venetian infantry, mainly composed or fled. The French cavalry, now reorganized, their surrender after 3 hours of battle. around a quarter of their infantry units, and for the Venetians, the morale hit taken by the his men to desertion as he retreated all the way casualties swiftly took control of the cities once their doors at the sight of the French army: were occupied as agreed with the other members border for his allies, sacking Peschiera. Ferrara Alfonso d'Este quickly took control of the Gonzaga conquered Asola and Lonato. Venice decided Romagna and Apulia to leave, so when the Papal territories they surrendered. This took away the conflict, alleviating the pressure from the south, the beginning of June, the Imperial army entered withdrew their garrisons from the other cities and Belluno surrendered to the Emperor, assuming imperial cities. Only Treviso remained loyal and hand came to help Venice: the rural population occupying forces and worried to lose influence favour of the Republic. Bands of peasants roamed enemy forces and offered intel on army movements. to enter Padua on the 17th of July with the garrison. This was followed soon after by the continued to have problems in Friuli. The of the Laguna and their men bolstering as Maximilian himself came to Padua with his and started the siege on the 10th of August. The each assault was repelled by the defenders during Maximilian lifted the siege with most of his army with the French contingent made it impossible and retook control of Vicenza, but French On the 22nd of December, a Venetian fleet that Po was bombarded by the precise artillery of a number of vessels forced the Venitian to paving the way for an agreement with the Pope. by imposing papal control on Umbria, Emilia, and now was worried about the powerful French had planned to substitute the stubborn Pope with of February 1510, the Pope signed a separate After the success that followed the siege of much-needed breathing room as the invading armies the winter. In May of 1510 the operations army commanded by Chamount, governor of Milan, the Polesine and retook Monselice, while another with numerous French troops retook Vicenza and the now commanded by Gianpaolo Baglioni, retreated where they stalled the enemies. However once contrasting interests, fear of the other becoming population stopped the operations. The French Cardinal d'Amboise to respond to military actions contingent was pressured back to Verona and in retook most of their lost territory, returning Having full control of Romagna, the Pope was out of Italy: too powerful had the French king to attack Alfonso d'Este, a longtime ally of the salt production in the area. Furthermore, the officially a Papal Fief and territory the Pope attacked Ferrara on the pretense of trade conflict while Julius indirectly attempted to subtract prince-bishop of Sion, Matthias Schinner, petition Alfonso d'Este, which would pass through Lombardy the French army followed them making it impossible mountains. In September the seventy-year-old reinforced by Venetian and Spanish troops, while conquer Bologna. The Pope counterattacked in the by the Francophile Pico family, but when he tried The following spring commenced by holding Julius gave Modena to an imperial envoy to shield but the French army retook Concordia, and Papal-Venetian army to escape to Ravenna. On the pursuing enemy cavalry, increasing the frictions assassination of one of the papal commanders. in Bologna and the French returned to Milan. matters was not unusual for the Italian princes, the Pope to be on a higher spiritual level. For the possibility of holding a meeting to reform of both spiritual influence and military weapons after having the French church declare itself Louis had a group of French friendly cardinals with the not so subtle goal to have the Pope support from the Italian and Spanish cardinals and stripping the one in Pisa of any legitimacy. organized the formation of a Holy League with an agreement with the Swiss Confederacy, mediated mercenaries for the coming conflict, The Swiss army advanced to Milan in December, once there their ranks broke during negotiations governor of Milan was the young Gaston de Foix, brought with him a great number of reinforcements incursion by staying close to them and hindering Chaumont had the previous year. Meanwhile, the viceroy Ramon de Cardona coming from Naples, any military action and laid siege to Bologna. De and quickly moved back to Emilia with his army and He then rushed to eastern Lombardy, where a sparking rebellions in the region. Gaston with a and then reached the city. With a night attack, gravest sacks of the Italian War. Many soldiers and the cities that had rebelled were fined. Spanish army. Cardona had been ordered to bide so he retreated deeper into Romagna, assault on Ravenna on the 9th of April he was The French army was composed of around 13000 or mounted archers, 18000 infantry from alongside 50 cannons. The army was reinforced which composed two-thirds of the French artillery. 8000 cavalry, 13000 infantry, and 24 cannons. April, the Duke of Nemours ordered the french army to head towards the Papal-Hispanic camp. The trench perpendicular to the river Ronco which then that had been placed to protect the infantry. The cavalry on the left with artillery in front and was placed behind covering the right flank. The infantry in the center, and light cavalry The French army stopped in front of the Spanish dislodge their adversaries from their positions. artillery pieces to the far left of the French opposite side of the river, from where he rained hours. Caught in the crossfire, the infantry on the ground, hoping to weather the storm and cavalry was decimated as they had nowhere to hide. after his requests to attack were ignored, as the fire drove him out from his position. Navarro who had wanted to sacrifice the cavalry French and German infantry contingents. They came jumped the ruined defences, and entered in a rallied out to silence the Ferrarese cannons. and organized than their French counterparts the bombardment, so they were no match for captured them. Meanwhile, on the other side routed their Spanish opposition. During the fight soldiers on both sides; when the Duke Alfonso he ordered enthusiastically to not stop firing, my bombardiers, as you can't make mistake, infantry held out against German Landsknecht same against the Gascons, but they were soon majority of the League's second line was forced to help with Colonna. The Spanish rearguard contingent of Spanish infantry was retreating in them but was caught alone amid the Spanish The Spanish-Papal casualties were upwards their best commanders were captured, including Prospero Colonna and the Marquis of Pescara, twenty percent of their men, but many of their Yves d'Allegre and the infantry commanders. historians to the unscrupulous use After the battle of Ravenna, the city was sacked the French army, now commanded by Jacques de la while a smaller contingent remained in Romagna to commander, the French army lost its initiative under the Pope's call of "fuori i barbari" - 24000 men entered Lombardy nearly unopposed with secured Emilia and Romagna. La Palice moved to of infantry and funds forced him to retreat to end of August, most of Lombardy and Liguria, save As the French were pushed out of the duchy, the on the throne by the Swiss in exchange for money Cardona and the Papal force of Cardinal de Medici pro-French government in Florence, also guilty of of Pisa. The Spanish infantry assaulted Prato Terrified of suffering the same fate, Florence Medici, reinstating the Medici family in the city. summer a conference in Mantua had been called conflicting interests stalled talks. Julius take Ferrara, Venetians and Imperials argued about in the peninsula. In November 1512, the Papal the Venetians. Already bitter that Brescia had this alliance drove the Venetians back to the March 1513 after 5 years of hostilities. Northern returned to Venice after having been captive away and cardinal de Medici was elected as Leo X. it became soon apparent that his objective was With a new Pope less keen on defending the Venice advanced against the Duchy of Milan army held an ambiguous position: having signed a to engage. France occupied the western part of and other areas rebelled against Sforza. As the Sforza fled to Novara with 4000 Swiss mercenaries. but on the night of the 5 of June, a contingent so the French commanders ordered a retreat in the the Swiss infantry went out of Novara's gate in Novara where the French had encamped dispersedly, The French army hastily drew up to the battle, The main column of 7000 men advanced against contingent of Landschneckt with the cannons the Swiss pike formations advanced stoically mercenaries. Meanwhile the remaining Swiss made repelled the French light cavalry. The heavy battle because of the muddy and rough terrain. who were locked in a bloody fray, was won by against their owners and routed the enemies. As train and cannons were captured, but the French who had lost around 1500 men, obtained a stunning days of marching, their fame reaching its zenith. back to France once again. They were pursued Meanwhile, on the eastern front, the Venetian storm Verona. As the garrison repelled the attack were again forced to adopt the same defensive combined Spanish and Imperial army attempted to from where a few artillery shots were fired the enemy capital and their army, in October the follow and attacked to block them, but he was Spanish and German infantry, which cut through the Vicenza, ending that year's campaign in Italy. Imperial forces invaded Burgundy and laid siege to the victory at Novara. Worried that he would lose talks with the Swiss, giving up his claims in After the defeat handed to him by the additional reinforcements to Italy to help had joined the Holy League formed against him. the Kingdom of England was embroiled in the War of which ended with the crowning of Henry the Seventh economy and securing his throne and its borders. and the young and ambitious king was eager to as the best way to make his mark on history. partaking much in it, but old dreams of conquest the possibility to join the war against France. place, Henry sent his fleet to harass the French Brest . A further 6,000 men were sent to Spain of Navarra and in the attack against Guyenne. the young king the glory he craved, so in the himself. After getting his council to support the June with the last of his 35.000 men, including forward and rearward of the army had already then pivot east. They began to invest the French main town defending the northern border of France. were met by refusals and the cry "Vive le roi." month. The walls of the city held out against between Calais and the siege were vulnerable to with one attack on a supply convoy causing attempted to mine the walls but were successfully German mercenaries would continuously disrupt Henry and the main contingent of his army finally train and German mercenaries, skirmishing with a mile north of Therouanne on the 1st of August. Henry with a bodyguard of around 1500 men. army at Blangy to break the siege. Henry crossed from the south and meet his enemies, setting his starting to run out of supplies, so the French and gunpowder to the city. On the 16th, a supply was to harass the English from the north, while supplies covered by a third contingent through reinforce the town. Henry had been informed by his guns on the top of a small hill and his archers Therouanne, between Bomy and Guinegate, it was met as they had only expected light resistance, crashing into their compatriots. As the they were threatened to be encircled by the battlefield. The diversionary contingent engaging the English light cavalry in some against the infantry but was contained. Whether the orders not to engage the enemy army, it by the Burgundian cavalry . Many stragglers or like the knight Bayard, were taken prisoners, However, the number of casualties was small. the garrison decided to surrender the town on were very unlikely. They were allowed to leave and Maximilian decided to burn down Therouanne difficult to defend. They then moved to Tournai, September, the last act of the campaign. As the King of England was campaigning on opportunity to strike. The Kingdom of Scotland warfare with the Kingdom of England, but by the James Tudor the Fourth and Henry the Seventh had the Treaty of Perpetual Peace in 1502, sealed with the Seventh. James, however, still cultivated so when war between the two parties broke a precarious situation. Century-old frictions pushed the Scots to side with the French, When Henry the Eighth had departed for France, the Queen of France to mount a diversionary encouraged raids into the English border regions, traversed the Tweed River and besieged a number 2nd Duke of Norfolk), appointed Lieutenant-General army of around 25000 men was already mustered. had informed the English of his invasion a month drew closer, the Earl of Surrey challenged Surrey had hoped to give battle at Millfield, but on a hill at Flodden. So the Earl crossed the of the King, just to then recross the river cutting them off from their supplies. James to forty thousand men and cannons, a mile rendezvoused at the village of Branxton, in a In the afternoon, the battle commenced with an lighter guns finding more success, although the doing too much damage. During the exchange, the English right. In the fight, they quickly the outnumbered English vanguard. The Earl which he had concealed from the Scots, to help the Highlanders were armed with pikes sent by in military technology from the continent, which they had not accustomed themselves with handling tight formation at the charge and decided to descended the hill but lost their cohesion struck by English longbow fire. When they came to were slaughtered by the English, armed with less was committed to winning the battle by capturing and descended the hill. He entered a fierce melee overall command of his army. The Scottish right was in a precarious situation, but the opposing and their volleys made short work of the lightly King's division, James the Fourth was struck by nobles with him. The battle was lost for the being around 10000 men for the Scottish while fell into chaos following the death of the King, infant heir, James the Fifth, removing Scotland By 1514 Louis was desperate to break his hostile towards him. A first crack in the system where he concluded an alliance with King Mary, following the death of his first wife Queen reconcile with was Pope Leo X. The first step he but the Pope still held an ambiguous policy had historically a number of economic interests considering Ferrara, Urbino, and Naples Giuliano and nephew Lorenzo. These political marriage of Giuliano de Medici and Filiberta of The war did not stop in Veneto. The campaign of invasion of Friuli, but d'Alviano counterattacked permission by the Venetian senate to leave his to his south in small skirmishes, while over Bergamo after defeating a Milanese army. the Venetians retreated to Padua keeping On the first of January 1515 king Louis Francis. The new Valois monarch was young, also been educated in the arts of commanding in preparing to enforce the French ambitions in Venice and concluded a truce with the ruler of the the neutrality of the Pope following the political an impressive army of 23000 Landsknechts, The Swiss in Milan, aware of the concentration French king by sending soldiers to block the most them by entering Italy through steep valleys area. The army arrived after a monumental effort of men at arms rode to Villafranca managing commanded by Prospero Colonna. The Swiss, now backtracked and concentrated around Milan. The dispatched his army to secure Parma and Piacenza Francis continued his march reaching the Pavia. The Swiss and Massimiliano at this give up the Duchy for a large fee to the Swiss was reached in the Treaty of Gallarate, though which made the majority of the soldiers of the home. Both Cardona and d'Alviano had moved Francis positioned himself at the town to cut the Swiss off from the League's army his Venetian allies now stationed at Lodi, at one leaders in Milan were divided on whether or not 12th and 13th of September, a skirmish broke out during which some Swiss were killed. The bells at the Castle of Milan, where Cardinal Schiner commanders to face the French army and filled the Romana filled with confidence that they would win. 30000 infantry and around 10 cannons. They were and Spain, and an unknown number of Sforza them were 3000 cavalrymen, 26000 Landknenkts, of the best German mercenaries of the time, 9500 and 60 cannons of various calibers. The Venetian 1400 light cavalry, and 9000 infantrymen. battalions once they were out of the city of information they had on the enemy positions. three distinct encampments in a line along roared their cannons to instill courage in the they were arriving as their spies had reported. the Swiss leaders met to reformulate a plan as the They decided to attack even though it was late locating the position of the French artillery, French had; a task made difficult by the smoke the Swiss fired their cannons and when they were on a rampart behind a deep ditch. the treaty called the freiknechte stayed head-on. This first wave was butchered by the but when a greater bulk of the Swiss attacked the German and Gascon defenders. The Swiss found their tight formations and capturing 7 artillery as did the Milanese accompanying the Swiss. assembled 1000 heavy cavalry and charged the Wwiss rallying them to continue fighting. The also managed to regain control of some of his he pushed back another battalion of Swiss. and French records complain that their soldiers The fighting ended only at 11 in the evening rested under the stars at San Giuliano and The French attempted to dislodge them, but some and were short on supplies. Trivulzio with some canal, filling their defensive ditch, and the destroying most of their gunpowder. The "with his buttock on the saddle, lance in hand calling for D'Alviano to move with his army. units, with himself in the center with the by Bourbon and the Duke of Alencon. The three with the biggest of them towards the King's bolts, arquebus shots and cannon fire, forcing pikemen traversed the flooded ditch, took the French right, the pikes did not engage for either into the flank of the Swiss central battalion. routing the cavalry under Alencon. Some of them while others chased the fleeing soldiers. The then came the Venetian vanguard with D'Alviano's D'Alviano charged the Swiss left flank, but failed the Swiss saw the approaching Venetian army started to flee. The central formation, having under the fire of the enemy infantry. Most escaped 6000 concentrated in a forest where they resisted sought rescue in some nearby buildings were burnt call the fight a "Battle of Giants"; Francis was knight Bayard, giving him the aura of "chivalrous the battle ended with more than 10000 of while the French lost around 5000. Milan and from there to Switzerland. Francis drive an indefinite wedge between him and the Milan soon capitulated and Massimiliano Sforza, Swiss puppet, was sent to Paris where he would entered Milan on the 11th of October as a victor, The Swiss sent envoys to make peace and an of Gallarate, though it was not accepted by to their conquests in Lombardy. Cardona returned while Pope Leo opened up for negotiations. The Medici family, Florence, and the Papal State Duke of Nemours, while the Pope would protect the In December 1515 at Bologna, another meeting the French church was resolved in favour of the integrity of the Duchy of Ferrara was confirmed. the French sent their army to uphold besieging Brescia in October. However the siege Marignano d'Alviano died of his wounds; sorties force arrived in December. In February 1516 English king Henry VIII who had a personal rivalry so he financed a Swiss invasion composed of the treaty and Maximilian joined with his own after unsuccessfully besieging Asola pressed want to engage them, predicting correctly that and 8000 Swiss from the other cantons came to Maximilian, now old and tired, announced operation and turned back, while the Swiss only would make peace with the Swiss confederacy freeing Milan from Swiss interference and Meanwhile, Pope Leo was working towards creating a the government of Florence to Giuliano de Medici Naples too, but the King of France would not give Lorenzo took over Florence and tried to annex the summer of 1516, he decided instead to attack Rovere, had given refuge to the Medici after being duchy which was quickly overwhelmed. However the of soldiers stationed at Verona and in February he a compromise that allowed Della Rovere to retire with only a female newborn Caterina de Medici as Back in the Po valley, following a few more Venetian Republic in May 1516. The Venetian but the Imperial and Spanish defenders held between the Habsburgs and Francis gave the city to the war in Veneto had ended. The many armies which territory. The city of Vicenza had changed hands causing much suffering. Despite the fact that the the republic was in a dire economic powers were building up forces to The Habsburg rise to the Spanish throne was not Burgundy, married Joanna of Castile in 1496, but by 1500 a series of deaths in her family made However, Joanna was soon declared mentally infirm castle. Following the deaths of her mother, Isabel Ferdinand of Aragon was made governor and regent age. He had been raised by his aunt Margareth in his grandson Charles became king of Castile take control of the kingdoms and in August 1516 dividing Italy into two spheres of influence, while Verona was surrendered to the Venetians. The imperial crown was not inherited like other the seven imperial electors. The tired archduke grandson elected, but the French king Francis He believed that only with the imperial so he profused large sums of money to the with the Fugger banker family, gave out promises Imperial Crown. The Electors, who were already wanted a Germanic emperor, gladly took the French profits, thus electing him in June 1519. wagered his bets. In Germany, the ideas to reform Luther were gaining traction, and Charles was the Leo was also worried that the young Emperor would of Saxony in the imperial election and the Emperor was still officially allied with the French King, and the unwillingness to lift his protection over Leo decided to ally himself with Charles, who to give Parma and Piacenza to the pope, and to would finance the costs of war to expel the French and allow Charles to keep simultaneously Crown. War was brewing once again in Italy. in February Francis had funded expeditions Taking advantage of unrest in Spain, the king Henry d'Albret, retake the region of his Kingdom Pamplona and took control of the kingdom, but in June a strong Castilian counter-attack beat second French attack took Fuenterrabia and the Francis also financed Robert de la Mark's attack army under Henry of Nassau, and the Duke of a conflict that had taken place for over two and tried to take the castle of Mezieres, but Tournai. Both Charles and Francis had assembled rains of autumn discouraged further conflicts. attempt to take Genoa and crushed revolts de Foix, Viscount of Lautrec was commanding Prospero Colonna was placed in overall command of Guicciardini commanded the papal soldiers, while Spanish. The Swiss confederacy had agreements send mercenaries, and so they did. Once the attack in August by besieging Parma, defended but the approach of the French army forced him to the Po river behind the French and was later went to defend Papal territories to not infringe The French army, which was hemorrhaging Swiss after being unable to stop the enemy crossing at the French and Venetian forces fled the who then welcomed with open arms Colonna's army duchy came under their control. Francesco Sforza, duke while Papal forces reconquered Emilia. was lost following the death of Pope Leo X a new conclave plagued by hyper-partisan elected Charles the Fifth's former tutor as elected pontiff only reached Rome at the end This gave the possibility to many nobles to Della Rovere who recovered his duchy and fomented With the death of the de' Medici Pope, many disappeared, so Colonna had to dismiss many of defenders in Lombardy, the French and Venetians successfully defended by Guicciardini. of 16000 Swiss entered Lombardy and the able light the French. Colonna meticulously prepared the in the Castle of Milan, and was joined by 4000 and the Swiss, Lautrec crossed the river Adda Colonna and population repelled the French army. Trent with 6000 german mercenaries and had reached their way to Milan and sent Lescun to Novara Sforza slipped through. Lautrec seeing an Colonna after a first unsuccessful relief attempt to leave camp and move to Monza. As often was the army were drying up and the Milanese had cut their and threatened to leave, so Lautrec ordered to position, going against his better judgment. and were now encamped 5 km north of surrounded by ditches and marshes in a strong the strong French cavalry to complete a pincer cannons behind a ditch and embankment, supported von Frundsberg. His men at arms were in the back another situation like at Ravenna, while his Following a short skirmish between the light audacity and ferocity on their own insistence, as so many other times had happened. They were while on their left Lescun commanded a contingent The Swiss pikes dashed recklessly against for the first time the arquebuses were used in a retreated and ducked, allowing their companions to under the heavy fire and once the few that reached heavy pikes, who cut to pieces their enemies and on their rivals. In the back, the French cavalry success in the enemy encampment, and the knights by the Spanish cavalry, so Lescun had to withdraw encircled him. The Swiss mercenaries were soundly the French lost at least 3000 men in front of while the allies' casualties were negligible. could do little but retreat; his Swiss allies remained in French hands, so he returned soon followed by his brother Lescun. Prospero assuming correctly that the French could not his efforts on assaulting Genoa, bringing the Charles and his closest advisor Mercurino di to pressure the Italian states to contribute to Pope Adrian finally arrived in Rome, but he imperial envoys sent to him. Frictions arose and the fate of the D'Este family, and most between the two monarchs to instead focus on the the island of Rhodes and invaded Hungary. to this compromise did he cave in and formed an and Henry of England, who had already supported while Venice signed a peace agreement with This was not the only setback for Francis: he had Italy and he was going to lead it personally, Kingdom by the threat of Spanish attacks in least the rebellion of the Duke of Bourbon, the unable to successfully invade Burgundy with German instead escaped to Charles' court. Meanwhile, a crossed the Alps in September and forced the Milan and prepared for another siege that lasted skirmishes continued to take place in Lombardy. a long illness, one of the last great Italian Lannoy took over his command. In November Giulio after his predecessor had died two months before. while French reinforcements and supply lines wasted his funds and men, Bonnivet retreated and was pressured by his adversaries. As they intercepted while crossing the river Sesia on the the Spanish light cavalry and arquebusier killing the famed knight Bayard and taking the last French cities in Italy were taken. Charles of Bourbon and the Marquis of Pescara all the major towns including the capital Aix. and when the French king himself approached with a rapidly turned back by the end of September. heartland and Bourbon's treachery, rushed into the the situation. The Imperials were unable to leaving Antonio de Leyva with 6000 men, of October Francis's vanguard reached Milan in no shape of pose any resistance, so the instead of pursuing the enemy forces as suggested second city of the duchy, Pavia, which he Francis surrounded the city with his army, first day, he built two batteries to tear down breached the walls, but de Leiva's Landsknechts During November he had his engineers attempt to bed and to then attack the weaker southern side the river destroying the progress. De Leyva which he partially solved by using the valuables the German commander. With the Kingdom of Francis saw an opportunity to retake the Kingdom Italian Wars. He sent the Marquis of Saluzzo to men under John Stuart Duke of Albany to the south. and continued south towards Siena and Lazio, where Meanwhile, Charles' army was waiting for budging from their positions while the Pope took first inviting Francis to Naple and then pleading again switched sides and joined the french, 6000 Landsknechts and 500 Netherland horses, 20000 men. The Marquis of Pescara took command there on the 5th of February, and setting camp army had continued the winter siege, detrimental the entrances to the city: Francis was sure he for spring. When the Imperial army came Francis along the Vernacula brook and for three weeks these three weeks, the condottiero Giovanni delle thus leaving to recuperate with most of his men, defend their homeland. As the French had just decided to strike before their own army dissolved Spanish cavalry managed to disguise themselves and By the 23rd of February, the Imperial army was Italy, and Germany, 1000 men at arms while the garrison in Pavia numbered around infantry from Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Pescara would take command of the battle on the of February to move north along the wall while Silently a group of engineers spent all the night old hunting ground built by the Visconti north of knew that the Imperials were on the move, but Francis felt secure behind the walls and did not being too audacious. At around 5 am of the 24th of Marquis del Vasto silently entered first into the was believed Francis was located with the goal stormed the castle and took the camp inhabited by prostitutes who were slaughtered, starting to loot in line. At the same time, a contingent of French noises and had reported back to camp. Tiercelin enemies who were setting themselves up, capturing their counterparts. More and more imperial Francis was woken up by his guards and the finest nobles of the realm would march with The morning fog and the uneven terrain of the and the French had difficulty discerning their that the enemy in front of him was just a smaller time to his infantry to form up, the French king the Imperial cavalry who could do little and were dispersed. Around this time three cannon for the garrison to sally out against the soldiers south of the main camp from the rest of from their infantry and believing they had won the who had returned to the main army and were mowed with valour as his retinue sacrificed themselves his horse after an arquebus shot killed it. Frundsberg and Spanish infantry began a fierce Black Band and a contingent of Swiss mercenaries. as the Black Band soldiers were considered What broke the French infantry was the arrival crushed the formation. Francis and his surviving de Lannoy, who even had to kill a few of their nearby farmstead. The French infantry that did not many drowning. The survivors were taken by the the battle for unknown reasons, and headed north. and 9 thousand soldiers, while the Imperial commanders were either killed or captured, its leadership. Francis wrote to his mother honour", and now that he was imprisoned, With the capture of Francis and the French army the King and regent, Louise of Savoy, prepared the the release of her son. Charles requested any claim over Flanders, Artois, Milan, and requests deemed excessive and humiliating by did not take any other military action following over the excessive power that the Emperor had. system of Italian balance among the states and a to form a new league by using the anger towards and quartering of troops. The Pope refused, an agreement with Charles, but the young Duke as he worried that he would become a satellite the many soldiers in his borders. However, of Milan was occupied by the Spanish forces. of Fernando d'Avalos in December of 1525 In March of 1526, Francis was set free in claims and the Duchy of Burgundy. Although Francis refused to ratify the treaty the Italian states and England. Charles, and on the 22nd of May 1526, the Holy League of Milan, and Florence. The league was technically repel the Ottomans and the Protestant reformation, autonomy of the Italian states. Knowing that Clement and Venice attacked preemptively. Francesco Maria della Rovere advanced in June with the walls of Milan to assist the Duke. The Duke before them, and although the League had double against the Imperials, their commander decided to The duke of Urbino excused himself blaming the to show some kind of result, he then took his army alone, Francesco Sforza reached an agreement The League's cohesion took a hit in September. friendly governments of Genoa and Siena, but who entered the Eternal City and sacked some now besieged in Castel Sant'Angelo, had to agree the 16.000-strong imperial Landsknecht army was by this point crumbling, but Giovanni dalle contingent and keeping it from reaching Milan. He but the rulers of Mantua and Este helped the the Germans crossed the Po river at Governolo the but the League's soldiers were surprised by the and Imperials in Milan joined up in February and Bourbon soon found it impossible to manage the though Clement had signed a new truce. Meanwhile, who quelled an anti-Medici revolt and coerced and Venice. Bourbon's mutinous army ignored entered Latium lightning-fast, reaching Clement had dismissed most of his expecting that Charles would have recalled them there were only around 3000 men under Renzo da by deserters and brigands. On the dawn of the 6th, old Leonine walls: a first assault was pushed back assault they pushed through. Charles of Bourbon arquebus: his death galvanized his men who entered Pope Clement, who was praying in Saint Peter, as his swiss guard sacrificed themselves for him. the mercenaries divided up the city and started spared, rape was common, people were tortured to concentration of men and the destruction of the from a population of 50000 Rome was reduced sack came as a total shock for the Italians on the legacy of Charles. The League's army as the commanders saw it impossible to save the no one among the Imperial commanders wanted as more men piled in the looting, and the soldiers agreed to pay the Imperials 400000 ducats and Venice took control of Ravenna and a coup in Some Imperial soldiers still refused to leave: city with loot, but others were still waiting the city was rid of mercenary presence. Charles sway over his troops in Italy, and the Pope had and later escaped from the mercenary custody. scrambled to form an alliance. In August, into Italy under the Count of Lautrec. The already struggled to keep his men in line and greater threat from the west. The French took as a punishment for the resistance in 1525. the Imperial supply base of Naples and marched of Naples in February 1528. After taking control where they were followed by an Imperial army under prove to be a disaster, as the lack of supplies French army. During the siege, a naval battle was his allegiance to the Imperials, while Lautrec a general retreat of the men still strong enough for a year, as pockets of resistance in Abruzzo Meanwhile, de Leyva had continued his campaign Piedmont and sacked Pavia once again. However, the port with a small contingent, striking army attempted to retake it, but sickness and making Genoa independent again following ruling it behind the scenes. For the next Genoese border and raids in Lombardy occurred, The monarchs of Europe were already holding talks upper hand, but the threat of the Ottomans and his resources. The Peace of Cambrai signed on the with the exception that Charles dropped his could be ransomed; other states were not invited left at the mercy of the Emperor. Previously, in with the Pope: the emperor promised to give back the Sforza in Milan and the de Medici in Florence investiture of the Kingdom of Naples, made and absolved the Emperor for the sack of Rome. landed in Genoa with an army of 10 thousand in Venice and Francesco Sforza, and hostilities did was not keen on prolonging the conflict and with Sforza, who retained his duchy for a heavy cost, in Romagna and Apulia and pay reparations. on the 24th of February 1530, Charles was crowned of allegories that were meant to sanction Charles then left for Mantua, where he elevated possession of Modena and Reggio, and then to In late 1532 Charles once again returned to Italy where he asked the pope a Church council, which and for the formation of a league with the existed only on paper as most states refused just a tool to pay Spanish troops in Italy. his part of the bargain with Clement of Orange was besieging Florence, whose had come to power following the Sack of Rome. to surround the city, but more reinforcement an impressive 30000 men. The Florentine popular a return of the Medici. They chose to rely on for outside support and frustrated the Imperial Most of the fighting did not take place under where the war developed into a game of who could of the commanders of these raiding parties, from the Papal forces. He was later sent to the he was intercepted near Pistoia in the Battle of forces defeated the Florentines after a valiant the Prince of Orange was killed Still, the Imperials were greatly outnumbering the commander began to negotiate with the Pope to had suffered and to salvage his interests in his the majority of the population was ready to of August 1530, when Florence surrendered to government, in the summer of 1531, Alessandro de Emperor that declared him "Duke of the republic". power and influence against the Italian comuni and republics had definitely ended. Charles V focused on other issues requiring his Protestant reformation that was gaining traction Schmalkaldic League, though not much came of his was the Ottoman Turks, who had conquered most Vienna, not to mention the high activity Barbary himself led the expedition that conquered Tunis Despite the failures of the previous years, He took every opportunity he could to obstruct Lutherans and formalizing the contacts with in Hungary and on the Mediterranean Islands. with Venice, who had been left out of the league unhappy that Charles had not returned him 1533 when Francis' son Henry d'Orleans married of the Pope. With this, Clement hoped to secure second option if relations with Charles turned the peninsula. Clement passed away in September On the night of the 1st of November 1535, died. The news came as a surprise to no one and he had been unable to sire an heir. De Leyva, the main centres as the duchy devolved to the his titles were returned to his overlord. the economic and strategic benefits or assign it temporarily hold on to the state as he waited for The French king would not tolerate the a bridgehead into Italy, the Duchy of Savoy. with their possession divided by the Alps. The the French king but had aligned himself with the the French took advantage of a conflict sending an army to occupy the French side of Piedmont and took Turin. Francis claimed for as inheritance through his mother, Louise of Charles got the news of the death of Francesco while he was in Naples. He raised an army and by the new Pope Paul III, who came from one of He showed himself to be much more of a statesman He refused to denounce any side of the coming Meanwhile, de Leyva received reinforcements and in Piedmont, but not Turin. Charles, once he had Provence while another Spanish-Imperial adopted a scorched earth tactic in Provence that and an epidemic decimated Charle's men, forced to abandon the expedition in September and the army in the Low countries also retreated. Italy, assembled at Mirandola, had reinforced the Saluzzo and Turin on their way. When Charles Spain, leaving Alfonso d'Avalos, Marquis del Vasto was assassinated, and the son of Giovanni dalle to succeed him but without being confirmed to send Florentine republican exile to hurt one was defeated at Monemurlo by troops loyal to the for help, Charles granted him the title of Duke. in March, French reinforcements came to relieve but a lack of coins and discipline allowed Del in just Turin, Pinerolo and Savigliano. In the over most of the region, as a truce was signed in in Nice in June 1538 between the two sides. in Italy, with Francis allowed to keep his peace through marriage continued the following the Netherlands, but no decision could be reached. Africa, with the goal of conquering Algers, because of bad weather and stiff resistance. The himself in and the promised support of Suleiman belli received by the murder of a French diplomat In contrast to the previous wars, the seventh theatre: by this time the conflict had evolved Habsburg and the Valois over the dominance of the points: to the south, an army under the Dauphin in Roussillon but were repelled by relieving Duke of Orleans briefly occupied Luxembourg which with the Duke of Cleves and Jullich allying with invaded Flanders, taking Lillers and Landrecies. soon responded by occupying the capital of but the French army relieved the garrison. with del Vasto going on the offensive with little the summer of 1543, the Savoyard city of Nice repelled by Andre Doria, and in August took and sacked the city. Charles of Savoy lifting the siege, and the Ottoman fleet spent attack of Muslim and Christian forces and scandalous for the contemporaries and Francis had after obtaining more money from his emperor, cutting off their communication lines. Francois de Bourbon, Count of Enghien previously captured by Del Vasto and a thorn Vasto approached to relieve the town, he a few kilometres from his enemy. On the to confront him. Both armies lined up for positioned on two small slopes. The exact number had around 13000 to 15000 men, of which around while the Imperials had either around the 18000 thousand infantry and 1000 cavalry; Both armies were divided up into three blocks of The battle commenced with both sides sending cannons to try to gain a positional advantage and been going on for a few hours del Vasto sent his shooters, but they were met by the enemy cavalry: advance. The impetus of the French cavalry under the Florentines, who were driven back into the deep into the Italians. The light cavalry was but it took some time for them to reorganize. del Vasto had to split up to confront both the Gascons and Germans advanced with handgunners in front ranks when they met. As the German advanced first, they crashed into the French, then the The brutal pike to pike combat was broken when trusted into their side, sending them reeling repelled by the Swiss after a single charge. On although their horse archers routed the Neapolese when confronted by the Spanish and German by the Italian contingent. Count d'Enghien by 100 French nobles, charged the veterans The French general thought the day was lost, as the battlefield. However, the veterans began rest of the battlefield. and after the Swiss had around and with the Gascon pursued the retreating threw their pikes to the ground and surrendered without mercy. At the battle of Ceresole, the further 3000 were taken prisoner, while the With the defeat of the Imperial army at Cerosole, However, the imperials were massing troops along sent. Del Vasto consolidated his position in Milan Italian reinforcements and defeated them at Piemont was the surrender of Alba to the Meanwhile, a combined English and Imperial army after moderate success were bogged down in the Picardy and besieged Boulogne. In August Charles resistance had halted his timetable. The Emperor operations in September, while Francis used a On the 18th of September 1544, the Peace of Crepy to the status quo of the peace of Nice and a princess and Charles d'Orlean, with either the unsure whether to sacrifice Milan, which had vital for the connection of his empire, or the Countries. Charles was more inclined to sacrifice following year dissolved any need for a decision, Although Charles made peace with Francis, England. Henry besieged Boulogne himself ending the campaign for that year. Francis but was repelled. He also sent reinforcements skirmishes and besieged Boulogne in the summer to Neither party wanted to continue the war, so Boulogne in Henry's hands. Both Henry and Francis The new French King Henry II, although was more focused on his northern border and English encroachment. He also continued his those of the Ottoman Sultans and supporting the the way Charles V had treated him and his brother In the aftermath of the Italian War of 1542-1546, balance of power. Evermore tired with he was more interested in combating Suleiman but as he was getting older, also had to the Habsburgs over the inheritance of his Empire. to his lieutenants, who were often arrogant few friends there. The most important of these who was the champion of the Italo-Spanish influence with the Imperial-Burgundian faction. vital for the crown's interest, while the latter Gonzaga also came to clash with the ambitions of preparing for his family members: he had already Milanese throne, and in 1545 he had given him himself. Charles was quite unhappy with this, Milanese state. In 1547 a conspiracy organized and Piacenza was swiftly occupied by the Farnese entered the city of Parma where he was Other areas where Gonzaga attempted to expand Siena. The historically pro-imperial Tuscan stuck between the Papal State and the Florentines, to take over the city, not to mention a number city by others, and the machinations of the city. The Imperial representatives in the to take control of coastal forts and to build to quarter troops in the town. The arrogant soon backfire, as more and more princes saw The situation in Emilia remained complicated in urged Charles to restore Piacenza to him, but did attempted to gain Henry of France's support, brother Orazio. Pope Paul died in November 1549, Ottavio's possession of Parma, the Farnese did Julius and Charles were not particularly keen his agents to the region and Gonzaga responded an army under his nephew to Bologna and they took Colorno. Thus another Italian war started between the Farnese, supported by Henry, In September, Gonzaga had to hurry to Piedmont French columns advanced into the region and the situation devolved into a stalemate because more French volunteers arrived. In Emilia, as Mirandola was going poorly and the Imperials The war was proving too costly for the Pope, signing a truce with him and Ottavio, and did not cover Piedmont, where the war continued Europe forced Gonzaga to go on the defensive. foot. In August 1551, the Ottomans had besieged were under Spain's protection. In 1552, Henry princes of the Empire, and a combined attack French king advanced into Lorraine and took Toul, and Verdun, but failed to take Strasbourg, Ausburg and Maurice of Saxony descended upon which was a huge blow to the emperor's prestige. empire Ferdinand made peace with the Luther which would be confirmed by Charles The peace allowed Charles to assemble a force of The town was defended by the Duke of Guise, deserters had done the hard work for the defenders the siege. Campaigns also took place on the duke of Savoy Emanuele Filiberto was showing where Charles fought for the last time in person begun to suffer from depression, and between 1554 responsibilities to his son Philip, although he often quarrel with his son, while his brother Meanwhile in Italy, Imperial representative fort built to guard it, which in July 1552 gave classes in the city which was quite a feat. in the city, and the francophile princes and as an opportunity to rid Tuscany of Imperial while the allies of Charles, the Pope, and de quickly reached an agreement that allowed them to but the Spaniards still planned to send an army and to distract Henry of France from the allied Turko-French fleet stationed around and only when it left at the start of winter The Spanish expedition spent six months brutally to take Montalcino in a siege, and soon The French and Ottoman fleets under Dragut not without controversy between the two sides, at Porto Ercole the French ferried troops to the as a springboard into Tuscany, while the Ottomans of Bonifacio. However, as the French tried to the two fleets broke down. The invasion of but the Genoese soon retaliated, taking most a new Turkish fleet would assist the French would continue to the end of the war. to take the situation into his own hands on the situation diplomatically, he raised an army and, the honour of the Empire, gained the approval temporarily. The Sienese were now commanded by Henry. He was a member of the rival plutocratic de Medicis from Florence. Cosimo's army was led by encamped north of Siena to blockade the city by to counterattack to alleviate some pressure in Florence. He first went to Val di Nievole, take Arezzo. Pursued by Gian Giacomo Medici, the della Chiana, and at the Battle of Scannagallo its hope of freedom. The siege continued until while the French troops and 700 citizens went to Montalcino". Philip, desperate to have some allies Henry did not help Siena much because where the French and their commander Brissac in summer 1552 the French retook the lost ground the autumn Vercelli, the administrative was briefly occupied and raided by the French. replacement did not have much military experience, conquering Ivrea and Casale. The arrival of one of did not improve the situation in Lombardy, as he France was in control of nearly all of Piedmont. succeeded by Pope Paul IV. Coming from Naples, he soon entered into an alliance with the King The king's favourite Francis Duke of Guise, laid hammering out the details of the league with the constable of France Montmorency, who expedition, convinced Henry to sign a truce in unhappy with the newly signed truce, provoked the main target being the Colonna family who pope's family members. In September 1556 preemptively attacked the Papal State. He swiftly heading for Rome. After the city was besieged, garrisoned castles around Rome as he waited This agreement was never signed as in January of come to help the Pope. After helping the French the French commander uncertain on what to where and the Pope encouraged him to head for the French army was stopped at the first roadblock Papal and Colonna troops skirmished in the summer, Flanders reached him, and he had to return home. the walls of Rome: a lenient peace was finally in Italy would continue on a smaller scale in Guise's campaign in Naples was stopped because King Philip had assembled an enormous army for the Netherlands, Spain, and Italy under the command Also, the English would join the war on the Mary of England had married Philip of Spain June heading towards Champagne, intending to draw and invest the fortress of Saint Quentin with The French defense was coordinated by Constable of around 20000 infantry, more than half German best French soldiers were in Piemont and Latium. 2nd of August, building trenches and batteries. de Coligny barely managed to enter the town in forcing a weak point in the encirclement with half The city of Saint Quentin lay on the northern bank surrounded by marshes, an impossible barrier for roads into the city, with a Spanish contingent problem and blockading the bridge over the Somme, defenders and the main army. Montmorency had and attempted the following night to reinforce the the attempt and in the night of the third, St. Andre were met by a salvo of arquebus fire. attempt, Montmorency ordered an advance on the advantage of a section of clear river water to the walls. On the morning of the tenth, the 6 or 7 large boats, while the cavalry harassed which fortified itself in the suburb of Faubourg of Saint Quentin at Rouvroy, which Montmorency importance so he sent only a squadron of German began to slowly embark on their boats, while river towards an enemy encampment, but the operations, slowing them down to a crawl. the city while others drowned, were stuck in the initial surprise, quickly ordered his cavalry rapidly traversed the ford at Rouvroy, scattering was meant to reinforce them could arrive. Having the transport operation and to have the infantry Montmorency joined his men and observed his cavalry to have traversed the river and began who retreated. A few kilometers south of the were finally intercepted by the Dutch and German and was captured, while many others scattered and the Spanish arrived at the infantry columns and down in smaller pike units that were harassed cannons were brought up to their position. The French army suffered between 12 and while the Spanish casualties were negligible. to head straight to Paris, but his king ordered desperately held out for two more weeks, when the after a ferocious bombardment, and Coligny was the campaign to run out of steam. In September, to to retreat and abandoned his advance on Paris. spent the autumn raiding north of Champagne. the real objective and in the winter of 1557-58 Calais from the English after a short siege, the continent. In June he took Thionville however, ended at the town of Gravelines, where a the hands of the Spanish army in the Netherlands advanced in July from the north and placed itself but neither side took any action for a few months. in October 1558, a month after Charles the Fifth for peace. Peace was reached on the Third of Henry had to give up all of his possessions and evacuate his troops in Italy and Luxembourg. his Duchy with all of his lands, though he had to in French hands. In exchange, the French crown was No mention was made of the many exiles from who were not allowed to return to their homes. uninterrupted conflicts on the Italian peninsula the region. France, whose king Henry would would soon be engulfed in a brutal religious work to do to keep his realm together. French, Spanish and general European and world press the bell button. Our lovely patrons and screen also get 2 exclusive videos per week available only to them across many finished and description and pinned comment. Please like, helps immensely. This is the Kings and Generals