There is a website right now that contains picture of the day you were born. It contains an every piece of art that has ever been lost, and contains every frame of a theoretical from the beginning of time to the end, it contains that movie of the universe with a In fact it contains every image that could Archives. On this website is an algorithm a 640 by 416 pixel canvas using 4096 different unique images. You can upload any image you have version of it in return with a string of numbers Or if you have 10 to the 961748 years on show and simply wait for your image to appear. another more famous website called the Library Jorge Luis Borges, an Argentine writer who often The Library of Babel is a seemingly infinite upon shelves of books filled with every possible pages. It contains everything that could ever history of the world, the cures to diseases we death as it will occur as well as many many is no filter for meaning, as you can imagine, the There is another less mystical, version of this of before; the infinite monkey theorem. If you set of monkeys, or really just one monkey an infinite amount of time it will almost surely of Shakespeare. It will also almost surely type The problem is that the probability of even enough typing away for a period of time hundreds of the age of the universe, successfully typing it might as well be zero even though it attempted this experiment with many fundamental a bunch of virtual monkeys or as we usually call text nine characters long and matched them to all completed. Real monkeys pose a different challenge would cause uneven distributions of which keys a few keys over and over again, get bored, and happened when monkeys at a zoo were given a The Babel Image archives is just another result although it is not as artfully constructed as website I find it appropriate for this digital with room upon room filled with same sized always changing canvas, The Canvas of Babel, to you the most meaningful images of your life. have ever seen. It could reveal the blueprints for You could find images of yourself looking image archives. But you will never find anything of noise. The Babel Image Archives actually makes The Library of Babel contains 10^4677 books, you could fit the universe inside the library of astronomically huge amount of times. The babel could fit the Library of Babel inside the babel something that is so out of grasp in terms of libraries it seems like they would simply crash completely collapses. All of this contained in an by one Jonathan Basile. The Canvas of Babel nor I once saw someone in a post say something like I know the chances are slim but it's worth a screen grab them by their shirt collar and say to cannot even conceive the NUMBER we are speaking let me set you down,--but it's true. You will website in your lifetime. You would be extremely An image with a concentration of pixels that And yet I share that arrogance too. Sometimes I to watch their computers running the Universal just a small group of pixels of the same color still play around with these websites despite the It's actually possible to produce images with black and white frames in text to that "Bad Apple" the library of babel onto the babel image archives other. I wonder if there could be an Audio Library bits of sound to produce every piece of audio one arrange every possible note to produce every exactly what Damien Riehl and Noah Rubin did when note melodies of the C scale, the area where most could ever exist, which comes out to be just a of trying to prove a point, to provide a counter court cases on supposed "copyright violations" from another. In the case of George Harrison, the plagiarize" the melody of a previous artist work. Anyone who knows a thing or two about music the amount of 8 note melodies that can be made are but much much larger library of babel. These piece of creative work a human being could make, If you ever worry that the story or movie you're it literally already exists...somewhere. There algorithm to search for meaning and discards in the short story by Jorge Luis Borges, where a entire walls of books, throwing them down the deemed "worthless." But how does one construct a text that uses very little real words but is all the words that haven't been invented yet? What those of Mark Rothko, who some will argue cannot all that machine sorted sludge of meaning...how Sorting algorithms are currently a trendy topic many oddly mesmerizing and musically beeping ways a computer can sort different elements into bubble sort, all with the same goal---to take then there's Bogo sort, easily the most popular not because it's any good, actually quite the sorting algorithm. It's something of a joke. While algorithm because it is very inefficient, Bogo get. Bogo sort takes whatever elements you and if they aren't ordered---reshuffles them again in the library of babel going to a random shelf, The interesting thing as many have pointed sorting algorithm of them all...if you are perfectly on it's first try. It's time to complete is even more guaranteed. It generates all possible every universe except for the one it is sorted in. if it were a person. Some users have uploaded out timestamps where Bogo sort gets so close but that still remains with all of these impossible this one time that the libraries will reveal and...well the odds aren't technically zero. It's The great thing about art is that I rarely slot in some universal list, as if we were just of every work of art that could be made until truly soulless art like NFT collections where it finding what animal hasn't been paired with some just to fill in that slot to squeeze out that last quite bad works of art, those with even a modicum of meaning. Meaning makes art. The reality is and The Audio Library of Babel, all contain or heard but you will never find anything as useful in finding something of meaning as The only way you find meaningful art in