Translator: Rhonda Jacobs Imagine this... You have just won Congratulations. (Laughter) You have just eaten the most delicious, that has ever been baked. (Laughter) You... have just had sex. (Laughter) And you... have just done all three at the same time. (Laughter) In these situations, our brains which give us these great feelings And without such chemicals inside of us, we wouldn't feel such emotions So instead, imagine this: You've just been fired. You're about to sit an exam. You have depression. In these situations, our brains, instead, making us feel stressed and anxious. The highs and lows of life and these chemicals in our brains. This vital organ inside all of us that controls everything However, as a biologist, I've always that every feeling, thought, is controlled by a three-pound, until I discovered The story I want to share with you today in our understanding of human physiology, that we each have a second brain, another organ in our body which controls as much as the brain in our heads, and which may be the key link between from obesity to cardiovascular disease, But first, to give you a little I want to tell you a little bit I was brought up My mom is a clinical psychologist; my dad a professor my sister even has a PhD in psychology. So when it came to me going to university, I'd heard enough about the brain so I wanted to study something new. I considered what I was interested in, and I figured out I'd had a big interest in food. I loved eating food. So, I decided to study human nutrition. And this was great how it affected our bodies, how it could contribute to disease, and more importantly, how we could use it This story begins back in 1845 with the birth of a curious who became an incredible man, but who was forgotten Ilya Mechnikov was fascinated and by the age of eight, on all the living things He became so good at science some crucial cells in our immune systems, But it was his science that was even more crucial through a tale of discovery, death, See, everyone in this room We all spent the first inside our mothers' wombs. And this was essentially where no other living things But as you emerged into this world, you were smothered friendly microbes And these bacteria grew a three-pound invisible organ the same weight as your brain, and which has become known And this invisible organ that right now, 90 per cent of the cells only ten per cent So you are more bacteria (Laughter) This ecosystem of microbes in your gut Thousands of species And your health is incredibly dependent upon the life and vibrancy Your gut bacteria digest certain foods, produce essential vitamins and hormones, respond to medicine and infections, control your blood sugar Meaning the types can significantly control from obesity to diabetes, They're involved in just about They function almost as a second brain. Well, Ilya Mechnikov may have He lived in France, in Paris at the time, where a deadly cholera with thousands of deaths. Naturally, as a scientist, he decided was to drink a broth of cholera himself. Remarkably, he didn't get sick. So again, as a true scientist, so he recruited a colleague This guy didn't get sick either. But when he recruited this poor guy got critically ill By studying cholera under the microscope, Metchnikov found that certain species supported and stimulated cholera's growth, He subsequently claimed that our gut were essential for human health, and that the right balance could help stave off disease. However, popular was that the human gut Surgeons had even begun removing in patients with gut discomfort. Mechnikov's death in 1916 meant that his ideas that our gut A decade later, and drastically became overused. C-sections became common. Diets became Westernized. A war was waged on microbes and we spent which turned our intestinal rainforests This Nobel Prize winner's ideas Some of the implications of this See, right now, one in three children meaning they don't get this initial that's been designed by evolution Instead, they're first coated or in the hospital environment to up to a 25 per cent asthma, immune deficiencies and inflammatory Fortunately, in recent times, we've realized we must with gut microbes However yet, we've still their role as our second brains. And this is something And I learned this first If mice become colonized an intriguing thing happens: they lose their fear of cats. (Laughter) In fact, they become attracted to cats. (Laughter) In essence, they go a bit mad, usually end up as dinner for cats. (Laughter) So, this microbe ingested by this animal and changes the way So, by delving deep inside the intestinal we've begun to find that are changing our appreciation See, our bellies and brains are physically and biochemically First of all, our intestines through the vagus nerve which sends signals in both directions. Interestingly, even though our intestines can still without a connection to the brain, Secondly, our brains are made up which continuously send messages Well, interestingly, our guts Thirdly, our microbiomes meaning a disturbance down here can cause subtle immune reactions which if prolonged, And finally, do we remember our chocolate-eating, lottery-winning He demonstrated for us are these chemicals that can change and how we feel. As it turns out, are also produced in our gut, none more so than serotonin, 90 per cent of which less than ten per cent Meaning the types may control the way Has stress ever messed with your insides? Have you ever had a gut feeling? Or butterflies in your stomach? You may have to think twice about that. So, you can see, despite my naive I've begun to study not only In the APC Microbiome we're fascinated in this link and we research how are impacting this gut-brain relationship, and how we can design interventions in order to prevent For example, we've shown that the types of fats can drastically change that decide to reside in your intestines. In addition, we've shown that by feeding it can enhance memory, stress behavior, And in addition to a number we've identified lists of foods or foods that can stimulate the growth To me it's fascinating that our health is so dependent but upon feeding other living meaning future strategies including brain health, may depend our gut microbiomes. As it turns out, Ilya Mechnikov See, much earlier in his life he married, but his wife quickly became sick The stress and trauma of this led Metchnikov to take Thankfully, he survived. He then re-married, and when his second wife got sick this time he injected himself Thankfully, he survived again. It was only after this, Metchnivok began studying He moved to Paris where he began hypothesizing could help stave off disease, and he published a series describing how to achieve this Despite the stress and mental turmoil he spent the rest of his life dedicated and obsessed with He began studying an interesting group who were living exceptionally long lives, and he noted that they all drank and he suggested that Interestingly, he began drinking and seemingly lived a healthy life rid of the stress and mental turmoil Maybe that was just coincidental. He described the time in Paris But Metchnikov died in France The life expectancy As humans, we all need for the microbes inside of us. The incidental war we've waged has led to bacterial extinction I'm here on a Fulbright to research how we can restore and how this can be used But I feel that we all have to follow in Ilya Metchnikov's footsteps. Not only to revive his scientific findings but to adopt his desire Whether it's by educating ourselves restricting unnecessary antibiotic use, or by adopting a gut-friendly we can all support the life of microbes So imagine this: Imagine you've just eaten chocolate, sat an exam or just been fired. Imagine your thoughts, your emotions, could be controlled by a hidden organ Ilya Metchnikov fought to not only but healthy microbial life. I feel we can all contribute for our own health, but more importantly, by restoring the relationship There is some food for thought. Thank you very much. (Applause)