Because of my confidence, I got me a lease paying $1,200 in about 1,200 people. I couldn't believe that so many people knew I had something really big. I was on the front page of multimillion dollar business and that was game changing for Hey, what's up, it's Pinky Cole. I'm 35 years old, and I'm Slutty Vegan ATL, born and bred in Atlanta, Georgia. Having a television background, I said, &quot;You know what? I that's in your face, racy, raunchy, that's going to make veganism has always been known to be pure, flavorless, pleasurable experiences in life is sex and food. If I can time, I know that I can peel the layer back and educate you I'm originally from Baltimore, Maryland. I grew up in a while my mother worked multiple jobs to make sure that she many jobs and learning how to cook with my grandmother own entrepreneurial endeavors as a musician. My father was and tell me books to read, he would teach me about stocks. important thing in this world. And I became a hustler at a candy, I would sell food. When I graduated from college, I didn't have any job lined want to be a teacher.&quot; No shade some teachers. But I knew figure it out. So I packed up my bags and moved to Houston, days. And I realized that I do not want to do this. And my remember sitting in the airport with my Yorkie, Rudy. And a &quot;What's wrong with you?&quot; And I'm just like, &quot;I'm not happy. teacher and other ways.&quot; And he said, &quot;I'll be right back.&quot; and he gave me $240. Just enough money to get me and my dog I moved to Los Angeles, California, to be an actress. And was good at it. But then one of my sorority sisters said you a job working in television.&quot; While I was working at The Maury Show, I had this bright I just was like, &quot;Hey, Jamaican restaurant. Let's do it.&quot; I a month, which is crazy now because you can barely... $2,400 YouTube and I started learning everything I can learn about still don't know what I'm doing. But I barely knew what I I had a grease fire and literally lost everything in the apartment. I went flat broke. I got an opportunity to work done with restaurants. I was working on a TV show. They had was delivering for DoorDash I'm like, &quot;Okay, cool. Ghost happening in LA. I realized I was just preparing for what I they asked me to go to Atlanta temporarily to work on the ass concept called Slutty Vegan. I didn't have anything written down. I didn't have a idea that sounded good. I started Slutty Vegan as a ghost kitchen. It was like a my permits. I had to get the facility which was like $1,200. had to set up all of my online digital delivery platforms. A to grow a company, you have to reinvest everything. When I taking any money for myself at first. I was just making sure business. The reason why I started a food truck is because the building, so I had to go. So they put me in a parking lot. anything about a food truck. The food truck was $45,000. So like $3,400 every single week to make sure that I could pay three months. I got a DM from somebody on Instagram. And he told me that and it was available if I wanted to rent it. Because of my foot space. And at my grand opening, I had about 1,200 out in line to support me. And that's when I knew I had It's the people who are the meat eaters that come to study about. Two, they have an idea that they can try this vegan And three, Slutty Vegan is a vibe. Duh. I'll be honest, I wasn't the most savvy business person when I'm just like, &quot;Okay, $16 sounds like it would make sense. calculations. But I grew as a business owner. I actually met the CEO of Shake Shack first, Randy Garutti. know me. But I got a really popular restaurant in Atlanta. thing about Pinky Cole is I'm gonna shoot my shot.&quot; He ever since then, he has been such a great mentor to me. And Meyer came to Slutty Vegan on a late night with a few of his It took a long time to get the investment. It took about 9 Slutty Vegan will be a billion dollar company. From my mouth 4 years ago, Slutty Vegan was just a ghost kitchen concept. million. When you come to Slutty Vegan, it's a party. The speakers. The employees are dancing. Everybody wants to be a The fact that I have $100 million business. I still pinch ain't talking about $5 million. I'm talking about a black I'm just a black woman, a woman. A minority owned business. beginnings. Who literally has never had a silver spoon in I don't care if you black, white, blue, yellow, green.