The world is full of massive ground-breaking $130 Billion High-Speed rail or Saudi Arabia's But there are many more megaprojects around the world. Such as the $95 billion dollar they have built 3000 buildings from the ground traffic data to calculate the fastest These megaprojects are literally shaping our them all. Hi, I'm Regis and here are the most We start with our number 15 at an is Germany's massive transport The idea here is to completely redesign rotating the whole train station 90 degrees! Until now, trains could only enter and exit trains will be able to pass through as being the end of the line, Stuttgart will train link that the EU are working on to The new station will be covered by 10 28 of these enormous, chalice-shaped pillars. Each one needed 350 metric tons concrete to build. That's maybe why no-one Light will come from 23 enormous making the station bright and As well as the station, 56 km of tunnels have particularly impressive but Stuttgart actually water erosion has created huge underground that took precision engineering and advanced But the planning of the project another delay was announced. It is now scheduled makes it 7 years later than originally planned Next up, we take a look at the United States. which stands for Bay Area Rapid Transit District. It comes in just above Stuttgart Phase II of the project is currently under Silicon Valley network under downtown It's only 10km but the new route will BART network and boost economic The line is expected to carry over 54,000 Why so long? Well, the tunnel needs to avoiding existing infrastructure like sewage disruption to the local population. The so specialized construction techniques and Traditionally, the subway each with a single track, but, in one larger tunnel will be used with space tunnel and it's the first time a system like Tunneling is expected to run 24 Next up, we take a look at India. This is This project is set to be India's first it's one of their biggest rail investments hubs of Mumbai and Ahmedabad and reduce The line will stretch over 500 km, and railways, rivers and farms in its it will dip down and run in underground tunnels, Despite it being one of Prime Minister progress has been slow due to problems in land Nevertheless, the first stage of the line is fast for a country's first high-speed partnered with Japan to design, build and Back over to the USA for number 12, this time released a pretty extensive video on this The Gateway Program is a $16 billion investment repair and futureproof rail transport This is arguably the most important section rail line, but much of its crumbling The Gateway Program will tunnels and tracks to modernize the minimal disruption to the hundreds This is one of America's so definitely check out our At $19 billion, next up is a redevelopment program to completely modernize the biggest In 2023, the airport serviced 62 million year. But despite its popularity, JFK is The current renovation aims to facility and increase capacity Terminals 1 and 2 are being replaced by the brand it'll deal exclusively with international There are huge extensions planned a complete redesign of the surrounding JFK will seamlessly integrate international Construction was due to start in 2020 the project is scheduled for completion by 2030! but we'll keep you updated on how it goes! At $25 billion, our number 10 is what many in human history. The International ITER, for short, is a massive international that happens inside the Sun. The reactor is being actually be used to generate electricity. If rolled out across the world to produce huge It's a big if though. Fusion on this scale challenge is enormous. To pull it off, reach between 150 and 300 million degrees This is one of the most advanced projects ever it's also being called the most At number 9, we have Australia's biggest ever investment in urban rail. Work is currently underway to build Sydney a 46 stations and 116 km of track. The network way that residents travel and integrating the High-speed driverless trains will run making it super efficient for commuters. But building all of this underneath Especially under the world famous Sydney Harbour. Digging underneath the bay required this - Tunnel Boring Machine Kathleen, named after Kathleen Butler, the Kathleen dug two 900m tunnels under the bay, Each tunnel will have one subway line running All of the tunneling finished in opened the year before. Phase 2 of the is due to open this year, with the remaining If you're watching from Sydney, we'd love to know Number 8 is one of the biggest private-sector This is a gigantic, $31 billion project transform natural gas into liquid The project includes a marine as well as two enormous storage tanks, Once it's operational, the facility tonnes of liquified natural gas, or LNG, billion dollars of revenue, if you The gas will be transported from before being liquified and exported from Kitimat. Sales will mostly be to Asia, transition to greener alternatives. also expressed their interest. Suffice it Commercial operations are with recent reports saying that Overall, LNG Canada could spell a new making them a vital player in the domestic energy security. The effects could We're in France for number 7, At a cost of $35 billion, this is one currently underway in Europe and involves an 4 new lines, 200 km of track and 68 new transport system to the demands of the 21st the Charles de Gaule and Orly airports, as well Construction here comes with all the usual urban area. Things like utility relocation, management. But the Grand Paris Express has the The arrival of the summer games has particularly on the extension to Line 14 which This line will also link to the Athletes' Village, as well as the Olympic Swimming Pool and Originally due to open in 2027, the one month before the start of the Olympics, As the CEO of public transport operator RATP says: "Line 14 will serve the Olympics, but Number 6, is the first nuclear power plant to be built in the United Kingdom in the cost at around $57 billion for this Hinkley Point C, as it is known, has and once it's operational, will Unfortunately, the project has been delayed as well as the long process of adapting British regulations. As a result, the original $22 As things stand, Hinkley Point C is with a tentative finish date set for 2031. Coming in at number 5 is the UK's HS2. Costs have continued to rise here too The new railway was originally designed to Manchester and Leeds, integrating But things haven't really gone to Manchester and Leeds have been cut Construction was originally due to be the scaled back London to Birmingham line won't Upgrading British rail with state-of-the-art likely boost economic development, but sadly The original $47 billion estimate has since why the project had to be scaled down. Removing this down to more like $84 billion but that's It's not all bad though. The line will biggest cities to just 49 minutes station in Birmingham will operate with Progress is painstakingly slow but proponents development outside London, which currently Next on the list is a Chinese megaproject as the Xiong'an New Area and takes the number Despite it being one of the most underway anywhere in the world, it Xiong'an will be a smart, green city overpopulated Beijing and equipped with smart city planning. If there's a fire, will immediately calculate the coverage Then it'll choose a route for the fire In true Chinese fashion, the city has been 3000 buildings have shot up. They're not fast they're moving. Drone footage shows an and high-speed railways lines all underway, not Over 1,000,000 people are already living there Things are moving so fast on this project, we would appreciate it a lot if you subscribe Number 3 is Japan's $100 billion dollar The new line from Tokyo to Osaka will of up to 500 km per hour! The trains giving passengers a super smooth ride, in China uses the same technology The construction is made up of and Nagoya to Osaka. The first was due concerns have recently changed the 86% of the Tokyo to Nagoya line will run in route, Shizuoka, is concerned that the Oi they haven't given their to go ahead, so construction has been That being said, Shizuoka governor and it's not impossible that his The second phase extends from Nagoya to 2037. It promises to cut travel time between as with the first phase, this section and similar challenges as well. So it remains At a projected total cost of up to $128 billion, the second biggest megaproject currently under The 1200 km network will connect major urban hubs running at 350 km/h. Once it's operational, will take just 2 hours 40 minutes, providing If the targets are met, it should reduce carbon emissions by three million tonnes. The project was first discussed all the way back voters were finally given the chance to approve Francisco line was meant to cost $33 billion and environmental reviews and mismanagement The first section of the line is now scheduled to to more than triple the original proposal! land acquisition and political and public But the people in charge of construction, the High-Speed Rail Authority, still High-speed links across California will integrate businesses, cultures and people. The network live in the more affordable inland areas and cities. In fact, the network is projected by 2040 - more than double the Northeast Progress might be slow, but this So that brings us to number one. If you probably already know what's coming. At an eye-watering $1.5 trillion... it can only of futuristic projects is supposed to The flagship project is the Line, which recent news report that The Line The crazy desert city is ultimately supposed citing an anonymous source, says there'll only The Line was meant to have 1.5 million residents The Bloomberg report has been cited all over the contradicted it, saying all NEOM projects but the controversy speaks to underlying issues. NEOM's 2024 budget has had difficulty getting of such an enormous project may be setting in. internal difficulties and one contractor recently with the petrostate. Malcolm Aw, the initially come onboard to help realize he realized that local villages were being And that's not the first time human rights abuses spoke out over the planned execution of three evictions. As far as we know, the sentences have Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030 is a programme to diversify the country and its economy. and on NEOM's other projects. Some The mountain resort of Trojena the Asian Winter Games in 2029. And the shows that construction is in full swing. However And further south, the luxury island later this year. And this is also where NEOM is by far the biggest megaproject under mind-blowing and news is coming out all the time. Do you think the money is being spent wisely? as always, thanks a lot for watching