But we both have a limited budget If you can do it yourself, don't hire workers. I'm just afraid of hurting you. I can't buy whatever I want like before. If you buy less unnecessary things You can Give grandparents a clean and comfortable environment Then I made a lot of money Come and take care of it. Back home Every daughter takes care of it We don't care. This one can live here Your father's ancestors told us to move over there. We won't go. We are used to living here. Grandpa and grandma live well It's bad there Please give your opinion That's what they say, not bad You have to squat to wash the dishes The yard is covered with moss I fell here once. This is the first time I have seen the whole picture of this bedroom They even took a photo in advance. Hahaha So you say they don't want to live in a good house. Just afraid of spending our money The bedside is covered with dust There is no word for enjoyment in grandparents' dictionary Because they are too hardworking. I wish I could put all my energy into that one acre of land. No one can persuade me. I always say I can still do it. Don't want to be idle unconsciously Grandpa and grandma also joined the team Cleaning is faster Finally, I gave them a chance to break up. The room is lit up. Now the only thing left is this old antique Grandma thought we were throwing away his locker. This cabinet is my grandmother's gift. There are important things stored in it. Oh, this is older than me. Grandpa's lifetime certificates of honor are all here noon Grandpa and grandma want to cook our best dishes I've been married for almost two years. My in-laws treat me like their own daughter and granddaughter Especially grandparents In fact, we can live quite well. But we hope that the whole family can live well. Use hot water in time A clean and hygienic kitchen No need to squat at the door to wash dishes No need to sleep in a dark and damp room Then knock down all the damp walls in the bedroom. I will start repairing as soon as tomorrow's putty arrives. I don't know How did you live in this environment for so long? We decided I'll take grandpa to choose a new bed this afternoon. Look around We are afraid of choosing the wrong bed Why not bring Ma Hu brother to buy it tomorrow? Before it gets dark Go back and finish the rest of the work. Our plan tomorrow is to putty the walls first Put on bright lights Then buy the bed. Clear other rooms Why without What's wrong I do. Oh yeah you got your baby out I listened to your advice. Bring Ma Hu brother to see the boat This feels totally different than yesterday. It's really reassuring to have the boss by my side. This half year I really can't buy a bed with such a high cost performance. The upper bed board was eliminated by Ma Huge He said he would do it himself Saves us a little money No, Grandpa. It's okay. Come on. Don't take it. Grandpa, don't No, no, no you you Run Run, I heard we're going to scrape putty. I came to help without saying anything. It's really reassuring. There was no one directing the scene. Everyone is doing what they can spontaneously Close your eyes Let's go Like this, like this Keep going Throw your glasses back Keep going The Invincible Cockroach Watching my uncle shave his nose is very relaxing We're itchy too. Didn't expect that? I'm so capable Although it is different from painting But it's not difficult for me It's ok hahaha This is really difficult. This is what I scraped As expected, he is a master who earns four or five hundred yuan a day. Auntie brought you something delicious Brought you some good drinks Yes Just tell me, you will still lose if you tell me. This is not as high as your salary. It's okay to work hard It's okay to work hard Dear baby Hahahahahahahahahaha Hahaha Hey hey hey So accurate Oh! Ouch! You look so majestic standing there. Ah, very impressive. Why is there a bicycle wheel? This is the toilet. This is Dabao In this section we are going to prepare the kitchen Then this is the lobby. Don't Grandpa is cleaning our future kitchen Tomorrow I will show you this 53-year-old house. How many treasures are hidden? Rice bowl It's time to eat rice. It's time to eat rice. Princess, go! Go Go Go I want to watch you go, dad. Report it money money hehehe The milk is expired. Still put them in there Expired It's all out of shelf life. Don't worry, everyone We secretly replaced the expired milk. Then there is I saw many family members say in the comments section The solid wood furniture in my grandparents' house is very nice So tomorrow we are going to focus on studying How to refurbish these old items Stay if you can Just try not to lose it Give it to my grandparents from my mother-in-law's family Grandpa, please hurry up. Otherwise, you will get hurt while brushing. Hahaha This is mine. It's solid, it won't fall off. Two rookies paint for the first time I changed three tools before I could start it. Wow this is our first time opening a can What kind of milk can is this? Hahaha Apply latex paint three times The entire bedroom can start to arrange furniture Report to you all About the living conditions of two elderly cabinets That was the day when the putty was scraped The atmosphere of this table has been completely changed. Grinded off And it's not smooth. fine In the end, he painted in a color that his grandparents would like. So I hope you guys spray lightly. Because of carelessness I have already educated him on love. It's not good for your son. Hahahaha So pretty It's so ugly. This game doesn't need to be polished It shouldn't be worn off. Although not satisfied But still help us to transform I bought copper pieces from Ban It looks really nice after installation. Looks good Very good looking, very high-end, very high-end When I installed it, I didn't Not as high-end as this one. The house is also high-end That bed is also high-end Your house is not remodeled yet. Isn't it beautiful now? Very nice Yeah, grandpa is really good at talking. So this old cabinet We are ready to listen to your opinions No transformation But keep it as it is Confirm my wedding attendance Getting married in a week There is also a heavyweight old object It's my grandparents' wedding bed. It's been too long The whole bed is very fragile Everyone should carefully move it to the second floor This bed can't be thrown away no matter how old it is. Haven't done it yet? Um Well, these socks are 56 years old. 56 years Northeast flower nylon socks Nylon wow hahaha You got me beat up. It can be seen that grandpa is a very nostalgic person There is also this kind of clock that you only see in old movies I don't know if it will work if I change the battery. There is another one in my grandfather's house that I have never seen before. Rocking Chair this this Very interesting When tidying up the old house I found that my grandfather also had a lot of notebooks. I should have written more often in the past. Grandpa, I'll give you a notebook. Oh so beautiful What kind of notebook is this? You can remember things I see you didn't have that book last time. All remembered Haha, this one looks better. hey-hey Look at this window here. We also want to make it bigger But this is stone Our old houses are all built with stones. This may It's hard to open I don't know if there is any other way. Now there is a problem This is the room that will be used as the kitchen. There are also white chairs The floor tiles were also eaten About this floor Does anyone have a more cost-effective solution? Overall The first room is basically renovated I'm really looking forward to what it will look like after the furniture is put in. Next is to hurry up and renovate the toilet Because the weather has started to get cooler recently. We want to let grandparents use it as soon as possible Timely When the discussion about transformation is heated I heard my grandma yelling I don't know What if everyone is not here today? I feel scared when I think about it Why is this fire? Grandma has a drink Isn't there a kettle? Why is grandma afraid of wasting electricity? This further strengthened our determination to reform. The process must be accelerated Let them live in a better environment Except for the stones There are also materials needed to lay water pipes and electrical wires Construction has begun Now we need to clean up the whole yard first. When cleaning up the sludge and flower pots There are a lot of mosquitoes The bite was so painful I ran back and changed my pants. Our idea is For now, we will use stones and red bricks to pave a simple road. This is the fastest and most effective way Even if you want to change it later, it is very easy The attendants posed in 3 styles Finally, let grandparents choose one Which one should I choose in the end? Choose this one Okay, let's start with this. Li Zhouyu hahaha Ella, give me a hand Now we're gonna pounce on the index finger Milk Milk smiles like a child's cute Look I can run now hahaha What a coincidence! What a coincidence! You are here too yes Hey, pick it up. The one in front has a good mind. This is not a good idea Just finished paving the gravel road Grandpa and grandma are busy making it for us The key point of the snack is to connect water and electricity to the kitchen and toilet Grandpa called his nephew to help Afraid of uncle's heat Grandpa has been adjusting the position of the fan Then he successfully blocked the wind The uncle who was joking also blew it Uncle is very fast There is a switch and socket next to the bed. Grandpa and grandma get up at night No need to grope in the dark to turn on the light at the door The most troublesome thing is This room to be converted into a kitchen and the dilapidated toilet They don't even have an outlet. Provide them with water and electricity We need to break through this 50 cm thick rammed earth wall. We are all worried that this wall is not strong enough Fortunately, everything is progressing in a good direction. Mom Before leaving Grandma pulled me aside to whisper again She said she had saved a lot of free-range eggs she raised herself. Let me take it back. I am particularly proud to say The old ladies outside are selling them for 2 yuan each. Red bricks are very dangerous if they are tilted. The rocks are too big to walk on. There is a high chance of being kicked or tripped So we immediately changed this path the next day Oftentimes, caring leads to confusion When we were laying the stones I didn't expect there would be so many questions. I just want to pave this road as soon as possible. Fortunately, there was no fire. Listen to everyone's opinions We bought smaller stones to fill it in. The foot feels much better than before. All the red bricks were laid flat The route was also changed The utilization rate of the open space in the middle has also increased. The idea behind this is to put a set of tables and chairs here. Thanks for the suggestions from netizens Inside the community We will use it for a while in the community If you think this is OK We will give him this cement. Next, start to perfect Although our city has been ventilated for a long time But you still have to wait for a while before putting it in Re-stay ratio Safer I don't have much chance to do housework in this house I have never been asked or taught How to be a good daughter-in-law There is only mutual tolerance and cherishment This bedroom is finally finished. Next is the renovation of the toilet We have seen many families propose aging-related designs. Regarding using a toilet or squat toilet The final result of brushing teeth is Considering the issues of hygiene and habits Prepare to continue using the squat toilet A toilet chair Do you have any recommendations for better ones? Then handrails will be installed on the walls. Install a shower stool So you can sit and take a bath There will also be non-slip mats on the floor Reduce the risk of falls in the shower Yeah, I don't think I have as many clothes as you do tools. Then in a few days That's enough This issue is a special edition on father-in-law's tools Uh, what kind of wood are those? Redwood Redwood Wow, can I make a lot of hairpins? That's fine. That this New Year Can you arrange two new hairpins for me? Oh, New Year's Eve I get excited just thinking about it. The gang sent a man to assist the father-in-law in his work. That's uh Do you do this every day? It's fun. Yeah, yeah Very happy That's for sure Did you do these things? I encountered something very bad. What to do then Then continue Can't mix gas Sometimes the wrong person is annoying. Then keep working on it seriously. You must succeed at first. Must succeed I think every time I chat with my father-in-law I feel peaceful. No matter whether it is a big thing or a small thing One by one Even if you can only do one thing a day But being able to focus on doing it well is already amazing The hand won't pass to me Wow, this is so beautiful. A lot of insoles Whack-a-Mole What weapon is this? What is this for? Turn and turn Well, this is like a manual version of an electric drill. Yeah all Bring me all your belongings. Ha ha Your son's belongings This brand looks good. Not colorful At least more than 100 He is losing Dad, I think you made this yourself. I made all the saws myself. There are 312 items in total Haha, even grandma would be surprised by this scene It's all recorded. Now give them a clean ring hahaha Preview of tomorrow's mission We have a very big problem These are all debris. Communicated countless times Grandpa refused to throw it away Can't start And this complex This straw is totally useless. And there are bacteria in it. I don't know what's the point of keeping it. Then these things grandfather I want to discuss something with you. That's the one outside the toilet. There are a lot of people piled up next to it. I want to go clearly I don't want this thing anymore. Throw it away. There are a lot of things in it. A lot of things That's right Then move him out together. Okay, then you ask dad to spend time with you. Then let's evacuate together. Ha, I usually say I made a popular clothes hanger for my grandparents. This guy has to face his father's trial Yeah, it's OK. ok this is not The old mother's clothes hanger was attacked My father-in-law said he did a bad job. But the work at hand did not stop at all Okay, it's finally done. Wow, that's too much. We are busy You are eating You don't wear a mask No, no, no If you don't wear it, it will get moldy. What a disobedient old man. I found that when I took out these pieces of wood They were all tied up carefully by grandpa with ropes. It can be seen how precious these pieces of wood are to him. Many ropes have broken due to aging over time. Grandpa still insisted on tying them all up again Grandpa and grandma had a quarrel Grandpa said the fabric grandma brought was not strong Grandma doesn't believe it Ha ha ha ha Haha, these straws can't be thrown away either. These are all collected by grandparents with great effort. But at least it helped grandparents take the first step. These straws really can't be placed in this warehouse These things combined together can easily catch fire Even if you use less Still can't bear to throw it away Make sure everything is neatly arranged. Because only by looking at these firewoods I thought This room won't take long to clean up. I didn't expect to clear this room. It took me an entire afternoon. I'll stop here today. I decided to use the money I had saved from doing self-media for more than a year. Renovation of the old house for grandparents in my mother-in-law's family We bought the water heater Today I want to install some toilets It is an aging product But the round plug is too far away Can't connect water heater Fortunately, there is a life encyclopedia master at home Especially the master we invited today Master, how much do you charge for doing this for an afternoon? How much is 1,000 Annual Meeting Annual Meeting Hahahaha 1,000 I adjusted this 1,000 myself These are all posted by you. I listened to everyone's advice and bought a house. It means that grandparents can take a bath while sitting down. The lock is in the house So this small toilet was originally designed to save No additional ceiling was installed. How about this? It's pretty good looking, right? I feel okay. Can Hashu feel uncomfortable Yeah, I didn't rest yesterday. Started working again today This is a pound of cattle and horses I just took out the sanitary napkins yesterday. I started working again today. My waist is not working anymore We have to reward him well. Um Okay, so you have figured it out. Of course Working from day till night It's not good after finishing it Check it out OK, let me check it out. Hahaha Um Is this hot water? Ah, hot water. Grandpa is using hot water now. Hot water huh Somewhat fixed Now there is trouble The paint on it won't fall off. The paint used to fall off This one didn't have white ash scraped off before Now you can scrape white lime We are going to build a Although my father-in-law doesn't quite understand But I still did it. Is it difficult for Dad? That's very difficult. Haha, it's very difficult haha You went so beautifully No professional No need for professional No major No settings It should be possible I feel beautiful It will definitely be higher It will definitely be higher Well, this live wolf father will do it That's true. You look forward to grandpa's small kitchen The second layer is more complicated We used old tiles that my father-in-law had saved. To make partitions Steel bars need to be tied on top for reinforcement. Reinforce the steel bars You can start pouring cement to make the interlayer. Next Steps This is the fruit and vegetable rack that my assistant promised to make for me. In fact, it only costs about a hundred yuan to buy one online Very convenient But I didn't expect that the follower could be used I built cabinets on the second floor before. The remaining wooden boards were used to make the storage rack Hand-painted with acrylic makes it warmer There are also wall shelves Please also ask my father-in-law to arrange it for us. Um Life All good things There is also a decoration of a bumper harvest. I thought I could put it directly after it was delivered. I didn't expect it to be an empty basket. I was blaming him before. Why can't you send someone? That kind of king Now I feel It's also interesting to record it yourself It's done. That's what happened. Hahaha That's what happened Family, we're going to clean the toilet. Family members, please don't learn from him. Should be as cruel as me ah Ha ha ha ha The army needs to put tools into battle How come you feel a sense of rhythm when brushing? It's too difficult to use wire. It's so good that I changed the pot skin and it's useless A pot skin is already smoking. I have invented a new method Ha ha We don't work hard at all Really, I want to see my mother-in-law. The second layer of the cabinets Then I told Brother Ma Hu yesterday that I also wanted to build I didn't expect that he actually left one for me. What are the tips? 6 digits 6 digits Listen to him, don't tilt it. I think this is difficult. I didn't expect it would really slap me in the face. I didn't know that building a wall was so tiring. He just does simple moves. But you need to concentrate on doing it Keep aligning This red brick can't be crooked. I haven't held it in my hand for long. My hands are so sore. Just did a little bit I'm embarrassed to say I'm tired Suddenly I felt that the bricklayers were really amazing. In the summer They are often seen under the scorching sun. Stay focused and build the wall under the scorching heat The willpower is really strong. This is very high-end Very high-end and very satisfied Very high quality He bought a faucet. Then I got the strong recognition from my father-in-law. Very happy haha It's really like this When you buy something and it is recognized by your elders You will feel happier than if you bought something good. I'm gonna squat now. See if he'll run. It's okay. It's okay. Yeah, he didn't run. Why angry Boss, this is amazing. Hahaha toilet toilet It is dual purpose He is the one who looks at his mouth. I'm not afraid to poke directly into the hole. Anti-alkali oh Hey hey hey Hey, Dad. Sit down and take a look Sit down for a while. Sit down for a while. Sit down and take a look Mr. Chen sure Very strong Very strong It won't wobble. Perfect We sent our grandmother to try it out. Don't marry Don't marry Marry Very suitable Well, we sent a second person to kill Grandpa on his behalf. No one can yell Hey, that's called stability or not Grandpa is very good, very good, very good. You can squat or sit if you want. Then this is still Right, that's right. Grandpa and grandma never hesitate to praise Now I feel particularly dignified You can cheat now. Dad said they were unprofessional. So what do you do professionally? It looks especially good when it is white The light shines on it. In this oil Hahaha Looks OK I just don't know if I'll be heartbroken. Residence To celebrate Grandpa and grandma's small kitchen has taken shape The first kitchen appliance we are going to buy for them It is a powered electric steamer It is also the most used kitchen utensil on our second floor. I see I still lost today Look, look If it weren't for me, you'd be gone I am your noble Haha, bye, bye, bye We keep our distance Does distance create beauty? My pretty grandpa, you have to take good care of it. good This is copper coin grass, ok I have used eye circles for more than 20 years. Can't tell incredible The cabinet that my father-in-law made in seven or eight days It took almost 30 years These two people seem to be able to do housework. Today I have to complete my grandparents' small kitchen Let's break up Grandpa is so comfortable The new window is also closed. Yo Sloppy Brother We're going to have a breakup. We've lost everything. Can't feel bad I'll tell grandma later. Don't let him pick it up secretly. This is my grandparents' old cupboard. It's almost falling apart This chair is about to collapse. It's about to collapse Yes, because every time I sit on this chair The bark is plucked off and laid out neatly. Dad, you really take everything too seriously. Otherwise, I might not be able to kill him. This will give you a flat bark. Dad, you So many Hey, take this question Take this face you How can you be so serious? I was just kidding. Get it out Ma Mu is really a good father who doesn't spoil the fun As we usually say If you want to make something He will really help you. He won't say whether this thing is useful or not. Or is there any value If you need his help, He really takes it seriously. Wow, this, this So beautiful. So beautiful. Dad, can you cut me a piece? Yes, yes It's perfect It's perfect It's perfect oops Dad, you are so professional. I wish you could get me a piece of furniture every day Can Too square. Hahahaha, the people outside here are the white people my dad mentioned. Why is this white skin not good? get mouldy Will get moldy and buggy There is also a slope The slope looks better OK Let's get started, Dad. I got a little apple It's the first time to get married Be bolder Tell your mother-in-law what you want to eat. mom What to eat for lunch I want to eat sweet and sour pork ribs Salt and pepper shrimp and braised noodles Hahaha Mother It smells so good I can't wait any longer. Okay, you choose. Mom, if I hadn't watched you do this I thought you were going to a restaurant and brought back some food. Mom, this red mushroom stewed noodles I think the price at restaurants outside is over 30 yuan. Mom, I'll be gone in a few days. My mom is here to learn a few tricks from you. Oh, you'll still be useful tomorrow. The money I saved from working in self-media for a whole year Renovation of the old house for grandparents in my mother-in-law's family Grandma and grandpa's small kitchen It's almost over here. Because of the busy farming season, it took up a lot of time So this episode was filmed intermittently for several days. Now we need to install the kitchen and bedroom lamps Replace with a better and brighter one Wow Very big. Wait a minute, put it on. Very bright. This eye-protection ceiling lamp is of very good quality. Can be used for a long time No need to change anymore Bright or not Brightness adjustment You can turn on the night light You have to have a high waist, right? 20 20 Should be Here, here How many colors? Change several Brighter Brighter a little Darker and brighter Grandpa, turn it off now. Turn off Okay, open it again. Okay, you have successfully used it. Haha you understand me hahahaha Just a little more teaching and you will have it Oops! I'm gonna put it on. No Very nice Because this color matches the original wood color very well Grandpa With this lamp, everything feels warm. Yeah, very warm. Hahaha And the range hood everyone mentioned We bought it back together. I actually bought this range hood a few days ago. Then the master will come to install it But we said that he couldn't install this homemade gun. Only my brother can wield this homemade gun You can just use this Yeah, it really won't fall off. Not sloppy Brother said Just use this thing to install it under the earth wall. You haven't pretended Then I tell you You are so good at pretending this. Now knock on wood. All right If you were asked to sharpen a pencil, you should do it very well. Yeah, that's awesome and beautiful. Children's pencils I bought it specifically to make you laugh. Yeah haha dad What was the first thing you learned when you studied carpentry? Planing wood But as you learn Is there anything you find particularly difficult? without There must be, for example, I don't know that it's enough to throw us I'm sorry for the little Just use these 4 small wooden sticks Grandpa, is this the first time to use a range hood? Yes, this is the first time I use this range hood. Then the walls won't be blackened by the smoke. Oh, yes That's what it means to us It is also an irreplaceable sense of freshness. It also makes our relationship closer and closer