Transcriber: Bob Prottas Show of hands. How many people in the audience Weekly, at least once a week. OK, now how many people (Laughter) OK, you've got it. (Laughter) So this is a unique situation About a third of us own a bicycle, yet only about 1% are by bike. So, we all know I'm going to speak to them briefly, But just from the health perspective, lowers your risk lowers the number of sick days From a space efficiency stand point This is 60 people To give you an idea of volume. Next time you're in traffic, That's how many people are around you. From an energy efficiency standpoint, it takes 50 to 80 times more energy in a car as it does on a bike. From a sustainability standpoint and the only CO2 emissions And most importantly it's fun. This might be the purist So, if these were the only reasons, Well, we're not. And why? There's a number of surveys Here's one that shows Car traffic, weather, Now what do all these things Concern for personal safety. And it's funny because --- and I'm not here to fear monger, bicycling is actually quite safe. It's only second to flying which you might be surprised And obviously you don't want to ride a motorcycle or scuba dive That being said, it's not so safe in the US to ride a bike. You're 5 times more likely to have a fatal accident in the US And, while we make up 1% of all trips, we contribute 2% of all fatalities. So, how can we fix this? Well, the number one thing And that's something Europe has done a great job of this. We're actually just starting and it's pretty exciting. Citybike, which I'm sure was a big bike share program in New York. They also have them in Chicago now. And San Francisco just got them, As well as a lot LA is actually one So what's the problem with it? Well, it's a great solution. It just takes time to do. In fact, Europe has been doing it So it's been taking a number of decades How can we speed it along? And this is where I think And that is the industry side. So, let's create a demand Let's get over that hump of fear that stops us from riding our bikes. And this is something that I personally It's really why I'm here. About two years ago I was riding my bike home Going through a very dark stretch of road with my dinky little headlight and maybe you've experienced this, last minute, nearly knocks me off the front of my bike. And it jumpstarted me into thinking, &quot;Man, I need a better headlight&quot;. (Laughter) But more importantly, I didn't want to go which is the standard operation. I felt like a handlebar mounted headlight Why is the light so high up is out in front of my wheel? So, I did some research. How did we get to this point? Well, here's a modern headlight. Point source of light. Focus is forward. Looks remarkable like this, which is probably This was --- If you were around in the late 1800's you used a carbide lamp like this, which was pretty much Stay with me here. There's a canister at the bottom. It holds little stones of calcium carbide. The little thing up on top The thumbscrew allows small drips Chemical reaction That heads up into the lens assembly where it's burned and it's wind resistant Why would you not want this? Well, maybe if you don't want a chamber creating high pressure acetylene gas (Laughter) right by your face might be a reason. Understandably, incandescence We have all these great improvements, with a small light on our handlebars Now, contrast that with cars. What have they done So here's Cadillac CTS 2014. What's interesting to see is just the design effort that went into this. It's a wrap around headlight. It has integrated signaling. It has daytime running lights. You can see where you're going, And from this perspective I mean you don't park your car and take your headlights off, put them in your back pack, And you have to go buy headlights I forgot to charge my batteries. Looks like I'm driving home (Laughter) This is a great comic by Bikeyface. I recommend it. Motivation, so now I said OK, I'm going to make I'm going to make a better headlight. But I'm going to do it by moving Make it more efficient. And I saw that as the wheel. Now obviously is pretty tricky because it's spinning. How do you focus light? Well, I had an idea. What if you distributed lights and timed it to face --- to turn the lights on only when they were needed facing forward? I like building stuff, So here it is in all its glory. This is the first wheel-mounted headlight. What does that look like That's probably better? You can see the projection of the light. It's pretty exciting. So I'm riding around on this prototype And suddenly I notice something else and this really where This arc of light made me hugely visible. Visibility is a bit deal Based on this, I did some more research because I wanted to know Well, this is a standard bicycle projecting light forward so you can see, rear light facing backwards Well, the NHTSA does surveys and finds that the way that they happen about 70% can be attributed to Suddenly, it doesn't seem like On top of that, a majority of bicycle fatalities happen between 4 pm and 4 am. Which is nighttime. Couple that now with the survey said that they don't ride and suddenly you have something the bike light. So, with this newfound personal discovery I said I'm going to make And this is what you get. (Applause) I think that this is a better approach. But more so, I hope that this inspires more design thinking So, I turned this now it's now a product. About ten months ago It's called Revolights and we've been selling now to the world. So, I think the lights I can show you in the true darkness. There you go. (Applause) All right. Now get on your bikes and ride. Hope to see you guys out there. Thank you. (Applause)