Well, we've had an opportunity in this brief analyses of the threats that are clear and in our day and in our nation: the marvelous in terms of his appreciation of it, John's that we're hearing over the airwaves and culture, and then of course, Peter Jones' Gnosticism. And so after all of this sophistication, I've on "Back to the Basics." And it reminds me, of course, of the famous League team was getting so caught up with sophisticated sloppy with the fundamentals, blocking and And so he called the team together for a meeting a football, and he said, "Gentlemen, this Am I going too fast?" Well, that's what I want to do today because calling Christless Christianity in our day If anything has been obscured by all of these day, it is the very gospel itself. And so I want to close out today by going what is the gospel? And I want to start by reading a brief portion letter to the church at Rome, beginning at I want to hear that Baptist air conditioning. Paul begins his epistle with these words, an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, in the holy Scriptures, concerning his Son, the flesh and was declared to be the Son of by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ and apostleship to bring about the obedience the nations, including you who are called in Rome who are loved by God and called to Here Paul identifies himself as the author a slave. The word that he uses here is a word that word which means Lord. There cannot be a doulos without a kurios, one doulos. And so Paul said, "I am a slave of the Lord And he talks about being consecrated or set and that to which he has been called of God, for the gospel of God. Now that's where we start. It's where Paul started as he unfolds the epistle of Romans. But he begins by speaking of "the gospel And that structure of the language there with mean the gospel about God. This is a possessive reference, which means is God's gospel. God is the owner of the gospel. He is the author of the gospel, and I guarantee who are preachers and teachers, with regard So I want to go back to the ABCs of exactly anything over the last 30 years or so, [it] fairly confident that they know what the gospel when we investigate that knowledge, rarely out of a hundred who has an even passable Let me now say what the gospel is not. The gospel is not the message that God loves That may be true. It may not be true. But whatever it is, it's not the gospel. It is not the gospel to proclaim that God And certainly that is true, God can and does it's not the gospel. If you say to me the gospel is that you can that's true, and that's a wonderful thing, Your personal testimony may be meaningful with, but your personal testimony is not the And we could go on for a long time here defining But what I want to do briefly is go back to of the word gospel. And when we look at the word in Scripture, usages. If we examine the word itself, which is the words that has a prefix and a root, the prefix, over into English with the prefix "eu-" And we talk about euphemisms. Do you know what a euphemism is? When you go to the dentist, and the dentist bit of discomfort." That's a euphemism, is this is going to We hear music that is euphonious. That is, it sounds good. We go to funerals, where somebody will stand about the one who is so recently deceased. And so we understand the parts of the word "eu-," which means good. And the root, of course, is -angelion, which angel. And the reason why angels are called angeloi service of God is to serve as messengers, And so in the broadest of all possible senses message," a "good news," that is declared When Paul later on in this epistle to the who calls upon the name of the Lord can be have not heard, how can they hear without he's sent, and then he goes back to the on the mountain are the feet of those who There Paul is making use of an Old Testament important to ancient communications. We get real timed reports from battlefields The ancient world did not have CNN or FOX And when the armies of a nation would go out Persians and the Greeks fought at Marathon, anticipation to get some word of the outcome be entrusted to a messenger. And you all know the story of the Battle of with the good news, and he ran 26 miles to he immediately dropped over dead, which is enough to run 26 miles. These insane people gather every year in Boston them drop dead at the end. But in the ancient world, the individual villages out for the presence of invaders, but also of the messenger and to hear the outcome of And they became quite astute at reading the at the town. If it was bad news that the messenger was you could tell from a great distance just what we call, the survival shuffle, which bad news. But if you could see his feet kicking and the way he was running the sense of joy that at the city, the people were already celebrating That's why the prophet would say, "How him who brings good tidings." How glorious is it to see one come with a Well, that's one way in which the Bible Any good message may be called gospel. In secondary usage apart from the word to that were dedicated to giving us a synopsis gospels - but the secondary meaning is the Baptist and then by Jesus. When both of them appeared on the scene for earthly ministry with this announcement, "Repent, The kingdom of God is ready to break through of Jesus when He taught parable after parable coming kingdom, the good news or the gospel If you would have asked a first century Jew and asked him, "What is Jesus' gospel?" would say, "It is the good message of the of the crowned Prince who is now present and ascension at the right hand of God in heaven of Lords." That was the good news that Jesus preached But by the time the epistles were written, good news and of the good news of the kingdom, general to the King in particular, so that and it was interpreted by the epistles, now the person and work of Christ, and now becomes So when we're talking about the gospel, We're not talking about me or my testimony. It's a message about Jesus. Now this message about Jesus is rooted very to what is called the Protoevangel, or the And that first announcement of the gospel, in a second, is drenched in irony because was in the context of the pronouncement of That is, there was bad news that was being news was the first expression of the gospel. And it is found in Genesis, chapter 3, in where we read this, "The Lord God said to cursed are you above all livestock and above On your belly you shall go and dust you shall All the days of your life, you will crawl, most despised form of animal life, and your And I'm going to create estrangement for I'm going to put enmity, hostility, hatred You see, this is all bad news for the serpent. "I will put hatred between your offspring of the woman. And the Seed of the woman will bruise your At some point, O serpent, the Seed of the and your last act of hostility will be to will suffer a death blow to your own head. Centuries, millennia before the advent of indirectly to the serpent of God because the for us because the victory of our Savior is all that he commands, even death itself. So we fast forward then to the New Testament, of the New Testament gospel, beginning in in verse 26, we read, "In the sixth month of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed of David. And the virgin's name was Mary." Now this visitor to this peasant woman is In fact, he was an archangelos, an archangel, of God Himself. And he's coming not to proclaim the gospel Rome, but he comes to give God's message maiden. And he came to her, and he said, "Greetings, You can tell this is a Protestant Bible because of grace, the Lord is with you." That was a greeting that the angel gave to "The Lord is with you." And she was greatly troubled by this saying this might be. And the angel said to her, "Don't be afraid, behold you will conceive in your womb and call His name Jesus, the one who saves. And He will be great, and He will be called God will give to Him the throne of His father And this child of yours who will receive the the house of Jacob for ever, and of His kingdom If Mary was troubled initially, this trouble She says, "How can this be since I'm a And the angel said, "The Holy Spirit..." was at the dawn of creation, the same Spirit all there was, was emptiness and formlessness same Spirit will hover over you and overshadow called holy, the Son of God. This is really the first announcement of the The Holy Spirit put a song in that woman's visited her cousin Elizabeth, she began to soul doth magnify the Lord, and my Spirit So in a sense, the first person that her Son "For He has noticed me, visited me as a Throughout these birth narratives, the visit Mary pondered these things in her heart. She still had only a nascent, inchoate, not gospel she had heard would mean. Then a few months later when she was of term, the enrollment of the Roman Empire, when she announced, the gospel was preached again on when the angel came and announced the glory And the heavenly chorus began to sing, "Glory "Don't be afraid for I bring great tidings And so the angels became preachers of the So if you want to know what the gospel is, of Acts and distill their essence, you can of apostolic preaching. When the apostles went out and preached the and all of your problems will be over." That wasn't what they did. They said that... as Paul opens up his letter gospel of God, which God promised beforehand This good news had already been proclaimed concerning what? What is the content matter of the gospel? It's not about you, and it's not about God's gospel concerns His Son. It always concerns His Son. When it doesn't concern His Son, whatever "And was declared, who was descended from of the apostolic Charigma, that this Jesus is the Son of Man who pre-existed His incarnation And nobody ascends up to heaven except He And so the beginning of the gospel is the according to the Old Testament prophecies, into the world. Without the message of the incarnation, there And He was declared to be the Son of God in by His resurrection from the dead. The gospel has a content that is both objective The objective elements of the gospel refer and His work. It is the good news of Jesus of Nazareth, and lives a life of perfect obedience under When He had presented Himself at the Jordan Agnus Dei, "Behold the Lamb of God who comes One whose sandals I'm not worthy to untie. He must increase. I must decrease. And Jesus comes up to him and presents Himself And John the Baptist said, "No, no, no, here. This rite that I'm doing here, it's... I'm applying proselyte baptism that used of Israel because with all of their covenants all of their religion, you see the kingdom ready. They're dirty. They're unclean just like the Gentiles. And so God has required me to give them a sin. So this rite has to do with cleansing from Lamb of God, the Lamb without blemish. No, no, no, Jesus, let's go. You baptize me, okay? But I'm not going to baptize You." And Jesus said something like this to John where I go), He said, "John, I don't have I don't have time to explain all of the a Messiah, but look, suffer it now. Shut up and do what I tell you to do and trust John, this has to happen because God has imposed if I am going to submit myself to the law necessary to fulfill all righteousness that Woe unto these people that are running around submission to the law of God is not a part A pox on them. It's at the very heart of the mission of righteousness at every point. And so the gospel is not just about the death The gospel is about the life of Jesus. If all Jesus had to do to save you from your He could have come down from heaven in a parachute, paid the price on the cross, and gone back No, He was born under the law, and it was So Jesus is born, and Jesus is baptized, and Messianic task, and He fulfills that task So the announcement of the sinlessness of that's what marks the significant difference He was without sin. And the perfect One, the sinless One then for sinners. What does Paul say? Scarcely will a man die for a good man. But what kind of a good man will die for bad But here is one who knew no sin, who gives sin. And it pleased God to put upon Him the iniquity And so He gives this atoning sacrifice, satisfying being a propitiation before God, and an expiation sins from us as far as the east is from the And that transaction of atonement is central Without it you don't have a gospel. But it doesn't stop there. If that's the end of the good news, if that's is a dead Savior. But by the power of the Holy Spirit, He was He ascends into heaven and sits at the right to consummate His kingdom at the end of the All of those points are absolute essential Together that portrait of Jesus, His person Testament gospel in terms of its objective But what if you get all of that right, have the Council of Chalcedon or of Nicaea, "truly division or separation, each nature retaining formulation - if you get His person down of His work of perfect obedience, of His sacrificial to us and so on, you still don't have all At the end of all that information about Jesus, And if you don't think that question is look at the greatest collapse of unity in Reformation. And the vast majority of Protestants in our The battle of the 16th century wasn't about It wasn't about the function of Mary. It wasn't about whether you pray to the It wasn't about holy water. It wasn't about even confession itself. The issue was, what must I do to be saved? The issue is, what's the gospel? Or to put it another way, how are the benefits How does the objective activity impact me And there is where Paul labors his teaching Honestly, I don't know how anyone can miss which means, theological shorthand, is that is by being justified by Christ alone, by is a result of the help of grace, if the help Orthodox Roman Catholicism has taught very in the 16th century in the heat of this controversy You can't have justification without faith. Justification is by grace. You can't have it without grace. Justification is by Jesus, and you can't But that little word upon which the church New Testament says the moment, the very second, is and all that He's accomplished is yours You're not going to lose it the next time your soul, you don't have to go to purgatory perfect right now, not because it is, as Trent But the word that the two sides fought over is that word imputation. Is the basis of your salvation your righteousness, that Luther called a iustitia aliena, alien nos, a righteousness that is apart from me, by faith alone? You don't mess with that. The Judaizers of the first century tried to They tried to draw the Galatian Christians faith, not believing that by the works of And when the Galatian community was disrupted, he ever does in the New Testament saying, except which you have received, let him be be damned. If you didn't get it the first time, he "Again, I say to you, if anyone preaches have received, even if it's an angel from and grab him by the tail of his celestial "Let him be accursed." But in every generation people have tried tried to improve the gospel, tried to make news. You can't possibly make it any better. It doesn't get any better than that, that now because my Savior - guess what He did? - He saved me. And I'm already saved. I'm being sanctified. I'm not yet glorified. But my Savior has already purchased my salvation Without sola fide you don't have the gospel, fide. So just as the life of Jesus, the death of of Jesus, the session of Jesus at the right elements of the gospel, so Luther was right, falls is the gospel of justification by faith I hear men everyday tell me that they are and they've never preached the gospel in what it is. It's Jesus. It's Jesus, who He is, what He does, and Let's pray. It's a fine and wonderful gospel that has day that it is not our gospel, it is not the Give us ears to ear it and hearts to love In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.