- Bel Air, Los Angeles. A location we always come back to, to tour some of the most in the entire city. And this one is no exception. Situated over a 1.6 acre lot, this newly constructed modern I can't wait to show you (upbeat music) This house consists of three levels. We are currently on the second floor. We have this amazing seating area and this level also features that incredible infinity edge pool. Now down below us on the first floor, we have all the amenities, incredible patio and And lastly, on the top floor, we have the carport on the left wing, two guest suites and the on the right wing. Now, I wanted to mention so that throughout the where we are. Specs of this home, we three half baths, approximately 20,000 square on the market for $68 million. And I wanna give big thanks Sally, Levik, Anita, Tomer, and Chantel for making this tour possible. And now let's start our (dramatic music) House looks very deceiving it's built on a hillside, meaning this section And below that we have two more levels. I love the futuristic lines here. If you look at the roof, you'll see these curved And we're gonna see these beams throughout the property as well. Now another detail I wanna point out here is the metal siding. They're installed in And to tie this exterior look, they also have these openings with strip lighting underneath, that way they can light up the facade, but at the same time give this And coming this way, walkway takes you to really nice water feature beautiful modern lines. And coming here we have with this LED strip lighting. You can see the glass panels, curved roof beams, just a stunning home. Now this pedestrian gate Water feature, looking over massive pivot door is But before we go in, I wanna This door right here opens up goes down to the second floor the five car garage and the carport. These views are insane and the from your garages are just crazy. You just open up these doors, it's a pretty cool space. Although this section feels detached, it's technically attached to the property. That's why they have a Going this way, Mikey, stay right there. Look at this pivot door. This is incredible, right? - [Mikey] This might be one we've ever seen, and we have - Without a doubt. And come on in. This hallway takes you and the primary bedroom, which we're gonna cover later. And the way they designed this house, they took advantage of the massive skylight to bring natural light from the backside of the home. Now lastly, we have the staircase here. Gorgeous chandelier, incredible views. Now let's go to the second floor. (upbeat music) This spiral staircase I'm gonna take my time to It's fabricated out of steel and aluminum. It is fully suspended, meaning it doesn't have running to the first floor. It connects the third and it's essentially this that cantilevers and wood all this natural light coming in. It is definitely the focal of this home, especially for the entry. Now, coming this way, I wanna This is where we have the Our views are fantastic. All curated furniture. And this is where we have Floating fireplace. This fireplace is mounted to and basically the center so you can enjoy it from both sides. Then we have another seating area here. I mean, look at the furniture arrangement. It's perfect for parties. You can just have your Enjoy your time, use your bar, which is next to the seating area. And Mikey, can we get a close up? We gotta talk about this beautiful island. Look how they fabricated the marble slabs to create this design. We have the same continuing arches here, another section on this Stone looks beautiful. Then on the other side with a contour design. And you have your shelf All these textures, your sink. This is beautiful. - [Mikey] Yeah, just the volume of this space alone is incredible. I could easily imagine fit in here, super easily. - I mean, each one of these seating areas feel like a formal living room. - Yeah, exactly. We get great light. And welcome to the kitchen. This kitchen is absolutely stunning. Poliform cabinetry, massive And on the back we have This is your first sink. And let's see, I believe Then you have three Gaggenau gas stoves, griddle on this side. And I really like this in the knobs to the cabinetry, so it looks very sleek and cohesive. Just, just stunning. - [Mikey] Yeah, I really Something about black looks really, really good. - Beautiful contrast. These Then you have these open shelves. In fact, I'm gonna show - [Mikey] What is that? - It's little shelfs. - What do you, what do you put in there? - Whatever you want. Your spices. You can change the you can stack 'em inside. It's different. I don't think we've seen this before in the kitchen. - [Mikey] Yeah, I'm all and the fact that I didn't know- - You would dig it. it shows I don't think - And then you have rest Massive sink, I believe, I That's the trash bin. And this Some glass uppers. And coming to this section, we have the paneled freezer, built in appliances, two And Mikey, why don't you stay the back side of this kitchen. Before we go there, we have a powder bathroom And now Mikey jump to the other side. We have a chef's galley here located behind the main kitchen. Again, it's all Poliform. We have a sink, Miele gas cooktop, all these base cabinets and uppers. And you have some Gaggenau built-ins here. Great space that compliments Now coming to this side, This marble Poliform table You have a chandelier above, and if this dining area right on the other side we By the way, this house I have to put my sunglasses on. Look how bright it is right now. We're in the formal living room. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's incredible. All the windows have this So, I don't know if but it does a really good job of kind of shielding the light. - I mean, I just love it. This house has so much Yeah. Welcome to the formal dining room. Look how exquisite these chairs are. Gorgeous chandelier above. You have this corner opening, Amazing views of the canyons. In fact, if you look closely, you can see all the way to the ocean. Just stunning. And lastly, let's talk L-shaped couch, two leather just a beautiful seating area. And to create some separation and the other seating they built this open bookshelf, but you can see these exposed Then they fabricated the shelves, and then they put these wood slats to kind of give more depth It looks beautiful, looks very contemporary, and I gotta say second floor looks absolutely gorgeous. - Stunning. Yeah, like I said earlier, it's wide open space. It's incredible. - Couldn't agree more. And I think the development Wait till you see the primary bedroom. Wait till you see the amenities. And we're gonna look at Follow me this way. Outdoor kitchen, just very contemporary. You have your grills, sink, and a lot of times the outdoor kitchens that we see are good, but there's nothing interesting to 'em. You know, it's just like nice countertop. You have your grills- - This one is like a little, I don't know, it's like a exquisite piece of furniture. It happens to be an Look at these views. I'm walking on the patio. We have the floating tile design here, which means elevation Your motorized sliding glass amazing indoor outdoor flow. Your dining table here, seating for eight, even Then you look to this side, they match the table. And then your infinity edge pool. This pool is the focal point in my opinion. Views are fantastic. It cantilevers over, Pebble Tec finish. We have the steps here. Hot tub on this side, water feature, walkway taking you down Art piece here. This is really nice. - Yeah, I love this pool. I love the edge of it and how illusion of falling off It looks, it looks really cool. - It reminds me of the property - Villa Peduzzi, that's right. - Yeah. Remember the - One of my favorite If y'all haven't seen that, - You should check it out. - [Mikey] For sure. - And yeah, scenery here And I wanna mention one more thing. I know we talked about house This entire pool sits on caissons. These concrete caissons, in fact, both for the pool and the house, they placed over 100 concrete caissons to stabilize the lot here. And to build this incredible effort, energy, going into a single home. But at the end, you get to live like this. How incredible is that? - [Mikey] It's insane. The way this house is built on the hill. When I was looking at it from the drone, it looks crazy, you know? - It looks so deceiving All you see is the single story. - Yeah. you're basically taking and you can just put walls of glass, that way every single bedroom Now I want to take everybody continue our tour with the library. Another beautiful seating area. Wall panelings, gorgeous light fixtures, even the chair here. So tasteful. Then you have this small to give some separation Fireplace. Great light coming in. Look at all the accessories and details. Look at this coffee table - [Mikey] Yeah, I would be totally happy with this as my living room. This is very nice, very tasteful. - I totally hear you. All right, let's continue this way. So we have the foyer here. There's actually a staircase coming down from the third floor. And we have another staircase This glass door opens up to on this level. And you have this beautiful table here, walls of glass bringing And then on this wing we Again, L-shaped couch, coffee table, these blue ottomans with some open shelves, leather chairs. There are so many lounges and It blows my mind away. I think there are like eight or nine plus. - [Mikey] Just how wide I feel like this is a perfect, like entertaining home for - Absolutely. And because it's built on the designed, every single gets to enjoy these incredible views too. All right, back here, that's another staircase. And coming this way, we king size bed right in the center. Then we have these wood slats center of the room. That way you have this walkway walk-in closet, water Again, we keep talking coming into this house, but you have automatic shades and the common spaces. All these glass walls and them are actually motorized. And yeah, this is a great bedroom. This is first out of the How crazy is that, Mikey? Nine bedrooms. - [Mikey] A lot of bedrooms Every time you have a party - over here. Mikey's feeling the energy already. - That's right. this door opens up to the water closet. Then you have this fixtures are gorgeous and coming right here we They have this really unique showers or some of these rooms. On the bottom and on the top it's clear, but in the center they have gives it a little bit more privacy and it just looks really nice. Goes well with the rest of the house. - [Mikey] Yeah, I feel like typically we would see kind of just to give some privacy, but they had a little texture - Absolutely. And with that, we are Now let's go downstairs and (upbeat music) Off of the first floor landing, And then hallway takes us to gorgeous pool table. This looks very sleek, and all the rest of the furnishings, you have your TV sliding glass this level, which we're And coming this way, we Again, every single one coffee tables are so beautiful. Then you have some art pieces here and above us, we have It took the developer here seven years to complete this home. I believe this staircase to design and build. Just this space with All these glass walls, angles, chandelier in the center is fascinating. I can just sit in this room and chairs and just look - [Mikey] Well you have and chairs to sit on. - Absolutely. - They all look beautiful. Then on the other side, It can hold 1,152 bottles. We have these floor to marble seating area in the Just a beautiful space for the seating area here. Now also, that door right there opens up to another powder bathroom. We have the gym here, which we're gonna check out in a bit. Another cozy seating area. Beautiful vertical wood slats, that's a water vapor fireplace. Environmentally friendly - [Mikey] Those have become - Exactly. We've been - [Mikey] Yeah, for sure. - And lastly, we have this, this has gotta be the coolest It looks like a massive but it actually pockets to the movie theater. Just like the rest of the Look at the ceiling treatment here. I'm assuming, I might be wrong, or do you think it's just for the looks? - [Mikey] It looks like some kind of high-end acoustic paneling. And since this is a movie theater, it would totally make - Totally. And it looks very nice. Then we have padded walls. In between these padded walls, we have vertical LED Screen is on this side, dual elevation, very cozy You have a really nice and I gotta show this to everyone. These couches are super motorized because, let's So first you lift the back then. - [Mikey] Okay, we've never - I'm going all the way. - So nice. Okay. It's getting really comfortable. - [Mikey] What was the last - I can't remember. - [Mikey] Well, it has to be on one of the flights we've taken, right? - For sure, 100%. or something, I think I made you watch. - I think maybe &quot;The Dark Knight&quot;. The new- - Exactly. And there you go. That's I'm gonna, can't figure out. I gotta finish the job I started Mikey. - [Mikey] Yeah. - There you go. All right, that's it Let's continue back to Again, we have the water Right on the other side. This glass wall opens up You have two TVs and this gym I'm assuming it's the rubberized floors, but it smells really nice. - [Mikey] Yeah, it does. And you just brought up smells. We haven't talked about - Oh yeah. - This house smells incredible It was the first thing we And I know Enes has something - They designed a custom and they diffuse it throughout And you can control the amount - Yeah. very prominent, very intense Or you can have it very subtle too. This morning when we we immediately smelled It's very light. And I wanna say kind of contemporary, I'm not a expert of explaining a fragrance- to explain what a smell is, you know? But it smells great. And they even what, they have - They have it bottled up So unique, right? - All right, come on this way. So we talked about the amenities They start here, you have your sauna. Let's see, this door Sorry, because of the reflection, I couldn't see what's in there. - Yeah. we have the main section of the spa. You have the floating this tile back wall with Then you have a light fixture here, I'm assuming it's alabaster. And then you have the steps taking you to the walk-in shower, because you have a rain head This back glass design is free standing tub. And I really appreciate that the freestanding tub. You have a spa within - Yeah. You know your vanity, You don't need to leave your house. - Yeah. All right, follow me this way. We have this door opening Now this hallway takes you Yes, you heard me correctly. Another seating area shared we're about to tour now. Beautiful wall paneling. You have some storage here on this side. And now let's check out the Door opens up and the hallway King size bed, sliding glass We have the walk-in And then around the corner floating vanity, water closet. This door opens up to your really nice bathroom that Overall I really like the And then sliding glass doors the guest suite on the other side. Glass railing, outdoor seating And coming this way, we sliding glass doors open up Again, another king size minimalist design elements. And then we have this opening taking us to another open bathroom. It's on a little bit of an elevation. You have your freestanding walk-in shower, water closet. This bathroom is really nice. And with that, we are done on this wing. Now let's check out the (upbeat music) Patio on the first floor is incredible. We have the staircase bringing us down from the second floor patio. It's this beautiful open space, And I wanna first take which is the main seating beautiful outdoor furniture You know, around the corner, there is the Stone Canyon Reservoir, which is a beautiful manmade lake. Every time I drive around Bel it looks so cool. And I can't believe we're from the heart of the city. And you live in a - [Mikey] Yeah. And we had one house tour, I can actually see the house from here. Early in the days of the channel. Probably like our 10th or 12th video. And it's crazy to think that years ago or so, this house- - Yeah, this house was being built, you know? - That's crazy. Seven years in the making. And speaking of the start I gotta look at the number right now. - Oh yeah, we're almost there. We are currently at 2,999,171 followers. By the end of today we'll How crazy is that? - It's been a long, long road. - It, we have aged over the years. I'm sure like if you look we both look way younger. - You know, I'm, I'm a little bit thicker. I have a little few I think the same for you. - Yeah, for sure. But it's been a hell of a He has a point. We made it all the way up We'll see what future brings to us. But this is what we get to Can't complain. to five next, you know? - Five next. Help us get there. If you haven't already, All right, let's continue. Rest of the patio on this level. We have an outdoor bar here. They haven't quite finished it yet. This house was just completed. But this is a beautiful space. You have a stone island here, a few fridges, sink, all that good stuff. And we actually have King size bed, nice and open. Gets great light. Behind this glass wall, We have the bathroom, you floating vanity, all that good stuff. And that door opens up to to this wing. And in fact, on the other side, So I wanted to mention that. Really nice bedroom, You have your Fleetwood sliding waiting for this moment. I love this space. All Look at this covered outdoor Double height ceilings. That walkway right there, or that hallway is the hallway that leads us to the guest suite. And you have this crazy LED lights, fire pit, This house is like a crazy, - [Mikey] Not only I but also from the It's like just built on - Absolutely. Again, it's so Then you walk in, it's this crazy three Then you have that insane It's pretty amazing. Those are your two smaller quarters at the end of that hallway. More outdoor seating. And can we face these views one more time? It's so beautiful. It's so nice out here. I would love to live in Bel Air. I think over the years I've to Bel Air quite often. I love Bel Air. I'm obsessed with Bel Air. Much more opportunities in Bel Air. Keep talking about Bel Air, This is why I love Bel Air And one more thing, Mikey, Look at the scale of this property. I mean, it's just insanity. That floating corner right there. Is the water feature off of the entry by the front door. - [Mikey] I love that It just from the drone shots. - You see a reflection - From the drone shots, Yeah. What's left is the third floor. We have two guest suites That primary bedroom is stunning. Let's go up there. (upbeat music) All right, let's go Again, this beautiful staircase, And coming this way, we have the steps taking So we saw the exterior of this tall wall and above that they runs the entire length of this And they actually follow the track lights to the wall. Looks so futuristic. Hardwood It's a pretty cool spot. It's a pretty cool moment in this house. And I want to take everybody with the first guest suite same hardwood floors are Looking at these views and I in this house is not but you can buy it if you want to. - [Mikey] So it's for sale with the house if you want it to be. - It's up for negotiation, but it's not included in And some of the pieces here are not cheap. I just happen to know the point 'em out throughout the tour. But they're all like and they're not cheap. - [Mikey] I love the I love that table on the middle book on it, the black table. - Yes. - Lot of good stuff. Welcome Floating vanity, tile walls. You have your walk-in shower here. And I really like the tiles on this side. They have this really cool pattern. And yeah, this is the Now let's go back and continue I love this hallway. This is It runs all the way to the primary bedroom closet by the way. - [Mikey] This was the when I was looking at photos of this house before we shot it. - Just amazing. - [Mikey] I'm curious, we have these kind of curved, Is this just for looks any kind of purpose structurally? - They're structural. They're I-beams happen to be bent, right? And the cool thing I learned - Yeah. the beam in many angles and then weld the gaps in between. - Yeah. So those curved beams are more or less. That's your roof cantilever. Okay. - Pretty amazing, huh? - Insane. All right, second guest suite. Let's go have a look. We have this long hallway. Again, beautiful hardwood You have your bathroom on the actually cantilevers out a little bit. So you can see the first And because this section primary bedroom balcony, you You can see the ocean very That's Catalina. - I don't know if you've - [Mikey] It's a really nice time of year in LA to see views. It's been, it's been very cold at night. It's very dry. - Very dry. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's, this of year to shoot houses because of how nice the - Minus the time crunch. - [Mikey] Yeah. Everything's gets dark a little earlier. - Exactly. All right, let's That was it for the second guest suite. And now we have this pivot door. I gotta show this to everyone. Very nice. Opening up to Come on in. This space is phenomenal. Mikey, stand right there. I don't know how big this but this is insanity. - [Mikey] This is very large. This is like on the same So it's just a massive open space. - Might be bigger actually. - And you have a small Again, beautiful furniture. You have this patterned wall, small display case. And coming this way, another seating area. You have your king size Bed frame, details, Everything about this room, the way the furniture's I'm really impressed. These Walk-in shower. There's We'll see that in a second. You have the seamless floor transition to your private balcony. Automatic Fleetwood sliding glass doors. You have your blackout I'm looking around to see Then we have the fireplace here. And then, really Pretty amazing, huh? - [Mikey] Yeah, this is incredible. And I just realized they back of the room so they and the sun sets on the opposite side, so. - That's a good point. - [Mikey] We didn't get but I'm sure there's really in the early morning. - Without a doubt. And it's The roof angle here gives you know? - And that's it for the Now I'm gonna take everybody this way. So you have this raised to your first bathroom. They have the same in a different color, by the way. Then you have this shallow wall one side and houses your We have the first walk-in closet here. Mikey, can we go this way actually? This walk-in closet is really nice. Cabinetry goes up quite a bit. We have these leather wrapped doors. In fact, can we show the inside, Mikey. Look how nice this is, like the shelf, even - [Mikey] They have the - Exactly. - They even have a little to block the light. That way the light doesn't seep out. - [Mikey] I don't know why. I love when they wrap when they just have stitching on doors I find it to look very, very cool. - So exquisite. And there you go. Ready? This is the fragrance for the house. - Really? - [Mikey] Give yourself a little spritz. Smells very nice. - It does smell really nice. And you have a Rolex book here. Accessories, beautiful details. Now let's continue our tour Water closet. This is the walk-in textured tile, vanities with this orange sink. This is Antonio Lupi, by the way. - [Mikey] Ooh. You know I like that. - I know you like your faucets. There you go. And yeah, You have your black, right next to this glass wall, so you can just sit down That's all I'm gonna say. Let's continue our tour. This house actually has Now, I cannot tell you It's actually not on this level either, but it's a very cool space. They even have some plumbing lines. The development team showed me the space, but they just kindly ask where it is. But yeah, you also have a - [Mikey] That's something but I'm sure it's in a lot I'm sure that's kind of owner privileges, that you should know you know? Welcome to the second bathroom. Again, it's on an elevation. This patterned tile is also here. You have this beautiful Same fixtures are also here. Corner glass and coming This is like a dual setup. So you have the floating vanity on top. Then you have the additional More pattern tiles. LED lit mirror. Oh, I missed it. - Oh. It's insanity. Look at this thing. You have a massive rain head. It's an interesting way They kind of recessed - Yeah. your fixtures, glass wall. Your bed is right there. Super cool. The entire flooring system is floating, so you have your drains tucked underneath. That way the entire bathroom like super flat. You don't have to deal with the floats. Now, it's gotta be one we've ever seen. Look at the lines and It may look like a rigid structure. - [Mikey] Oh, it's soft. - It's super padded. - [Mikey] I thought it was - It's like a very unique memory foam that keeps its or retains its shape. And we have the water closet here. Eggshell toilet All glass enclosed. And follow me this way. This is where we have the I mentioned it at the hallway. The same skylight assembly You have the island in the center. Leather wrap, open shelving, leather wrap doors. It's a really nice closet. All right, now let's take everybody to the primary bedroom balcony. Again, motorized sliding And it's this phenomenal outdoor space. It's so bright out today. You have the Infinity Canyon views, Catalina in the distance. And I'm really glad that to tour this stunning property. And now let's see this place at night. (upbeat music) All right everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this video. I want to congratulate the exceptional job with this house. And I also want to give big Sally, Levik, Anita, Tomer, and Chantel for making this tour possible. More information on this listing of this video, so make And if you enjoyed the tour, and we'll see you guys next week. (upbeat music)