Hello everyone! Okay, I'm very proud of this one Bunch Piece with Easy Techniques and exciting right into it because I can't wait to show my website [ www.abcreativeofficial.com ] with quite an unusual color combination I just fancy that today. We're going to Dusty Rose as well maybe! This is the canvas elements on it as well but the first thing I basically used only these and the shades colors. None of the containers is full of just I shaded them with a bit of black so white and Scarlet there was just one droplet, so you won't These are the mixes - the consistency, all of Pretty runny, I do want them runny, so the build part of my pouring medium (which is PVA and water well and then added quite a lot of water and I was canvas to be lighter on the top if possible and to have some streaks going in one direction. of white first. While I'm positioning my canvas containers I used - to be honest everything here here. I very rarely use this, almost never. I I think I wanted canvas to be tiny bit moist. I'm going to put more white here, I've got something in my head but I'm Layering the colors in a bit more controlled that's a pretty color isn't it? Okay now probably not putting enough. A little bit of I can always reapply later on if it's not enough. usual disclaimer that I make, please don't do gets heated and also you can cut yourself. Something like that, that's actually quite Don't worry I'll as I said before I was Now revisiting, I do want more white. Oh yes that's what I wanted Don't worry about the middle, you will I'm actually going to scoop the mid part because much I wanted but I do like this and I do like I am reusing all the paint I've used, so all give me a completely different color for next I did want some of the dark paint to the paper napkin to drag it a bit... let Something like that, maybe I'll let's just put a bit more here... You're I'm imagining something. You know the very next I want flowers here... all that I was thinking how big I want my flowers - the size and I quickly sketched one. I think I anemone that I did before. Let me transfer it, I soft black graphite it's very easy to transfer I might make this petal probably a bit smaller. I know that could be annoying. That was super I think you can see - you can see well at this because adding 3D paste will definitely change general guidance for where I want the petals to and the marker on the darker background of lovely comments, please forgive me if I don't job. I do work as a teacher and the beginning them and I really appreciate them. Some of I didn't know if it's going to work half way to work' and you know what? This is exactly how am I going to do it? But I persevere I want to see what my vision was, otherwise I did try this type of flower and I'll be absolutely honest with you I've actually watched my own tutorial just to make Just put some of this, these are I would so like you to participate in the process, prefer me to do palette knife or would you prefer will go with the bag, I'm curious myself how thick with the bags the last two videos and are far lines thicker this time. Much thicker. Now it's and also it's good to have a wet wipe in case shouldn't be a problem. It doesn't matter with a palette knife because I would have to but in this case I can do both. Let's just try Now I do want some paste on do that? I need more, I need a bigger hole. At least like that... Super satisfying. Tricky here, not sure what I was thinking. Now how your lines were. Doesn't really matter if you're making it brush I'm going to use the brush, a So with water I'm just going towards the middle. I think it's going to I'm just touching it halfway through, I want this flower to be slightly disappearing, I think it's going to work the paste is so soft. Look what I can do. I can and I might do it to give the impression So going back to the moment when I 'what am I even doing?' This is the moment of definitely know what I'm doing and it's working things constantly. I just like this unknown, Okay since I've done this one, now I can do the there's no question that if you are this technique is perfect. I'm adapting I don't think every petal needs a very thick I want it to be like folded and by the way I might go over this section again to create this. something like that what do you think and this because this this part is folded like that one I started like five minutes ago are partially same direction towards the middle I think that one or two buds here thinking I think that we need and let it be kind of overlapping it's going is a really quick sketch I wasn't prepared for something like this very simple I did have some start and something works well with the next I usually get suggestions for the subject of the feedback and some thoughts on what and maybe try something completely different a good challenge in our time in art so I'm becoming a bit too philosophical life does help you grow doesn't it I'm solid dry next day what I'll do now I'm because I want the flowers to stand out I I'll show how much I want again I will it off if it's too much baby wipe will be I think it will look nice if I add some drips pink with black gives a nice shade I'm helping them their control now I can't make up my mind do I want the flowers bit pink I think white on its own will be a bit bit of color I don't want them light to be honest it's like white washing them a bit now I can see so I'll quickly cover all of them with this very nicely covered even though it was a very thin white with pink blush and the background a bit more pink now especially in the that I always wipe it off if I think it's too I remember that smallest I just want to see all the colors from the it's a little bit of Gray in the same you add layers of color you always get something oh I think I'm matching my flowers that's not all that I want in that's the size I want like a little glue underneath maybe perhaps I will uh just in added some blue perfect little and another one all right I'm going to wait till they I'm going to paint the mid part I know that lots of you do like it so I might even add a bit of this is still the color mix from the background the previous color is still wet so it's kind is the better the gold will be seen so I oh that's really dark I don't want I I think that's nice touch of gold I bronze but because we've got gold here more yellow I've decided actually that a little bit on my finger I don't want it everywhere just some sections not sure if I want so much here little touches not going to use a golden leaf I don't want it quite subtle so I think that's enough or more than so I'm putting it on and then wiping let's see what they will look like oh that's going to be really cool I'll be gluing it I'm really looking forward to your comments and all of you who sent me lots of very interesting I think I'm going to use super glue now just put and I'll hold them down one by one couple I'm trying not to make them sort of evenly spaced baby that leaves me with this well there we are I'm so happy with this you like to see me do next in this style I'm don't forget that this original is for sale you would like to see more videos like this I'll see you next Saturday thank sunshine