The human brain is so prone to flawed ways of it can come to the wrong conclusions. Dr. Narendra Dabholkar. He knew that the people in the rural parts of India and scammers and fraudsters who exploit Dr. Dabholkar saw only one way to fight this that he tried to get passed in his state, a lot of enemies in the process who were This is his story. You're watching Science This video is brought to you by StayQrious Dr. Dabholkar had passed out of the in the 1970s. With an MBBS degree and he could see that this was not his he discovered while practicing in a village. His treatment would have been expensive Instead, he went for another choice who promised him a complete cure to all the lord - something that would cost treatment would've. And with the man's And you can guess what happened next. The he would have been alive today. And while it's this choice was not made in isolation. empty promises made by godmen, or priests, or made to the people that have a tendency of religion is all people need to trust what religion is all they have and they And some of these people who fall prey to problem in their lives - be it financial, these scammers can smell their desperation from the ocean. And these innocent victims through no sometimes with their own lives - and And here's the worst part. They are often told outcome or the reward they wanted. Maybe they wasn't in the right place, or maybe they didn't none of this can be tested or proven, people have Dabholkar had seen hundreds of cases like these. money on empty promises like these. He had with various organizations. But now, he had against these scammers. He started the Maharashtra short. Literally meaning the Committee for As planned, the first thing MANS did was thinking. The organization fought against dubious and uneducated. They also shone light on One of his hobbies was to expose the of "divine" power and &quot;supernatural&quot; all just simple tricks of chemistry or producing chemicals that look like &quot;Fire eating is also a lot less dangerous religious festivals is to use pieces of camphor bottom of the camphor remains very cool, so the flame is quickly extinguished by They even went all around the country MANS once issued a prize of Rs. 11 lakhs physically impossible under the scrutiny Dabholkar even challenged astrologers anyone who could predict the results of the 80% accuracy. Again - no predictions, and astrologers have divine powers that work only While doing all this, Dabholkar faced criticism activities were directly against Hindu customs anti-religion etc. This seems to be the only and its not even a valid criticism. You can find never seen them argue against a specific thing While it is true that he was against but he was only against those that were harm to the people and the environment. to a single religion. You can read up about how ill people under the superstitious belief that a dargah in Chalisgaon. A dargah is a tomb of a Dr. Dabholkar was one of the biggest But things haven't really progressed much past given as much value in our education as, say, of misinformation and scams that children Which is why I've partnered with StayQrious the former content head of Khan Academy - I've couple of years ago. So I've actually gotten by investors like YCombinator and Draper their research-based curriculum through their you can read up all about this and learn more - They're Cambridge affiliated - which means and they're a complete replacement for own curriculum, which means they teach And the kicker is, they teach real world and mental health management, etc., which but turn out to be the most important skills in not just with narrow skills that help them find help them navigate this modern world of one of the things I said earlier, the mental to really care about in this country. And forward to school whereas in my day, I was Now to ensure that each student they only have a max of 8 students in their class, and they work on projects and case-studies that But most importantly, what they do is teach fall for dubious misinformation online and teach rationality and how to avoid patterns There are those of us that are passionate India learns. We've all gone through the current with it. And I've never seen someone like Aanand If I had children of my own, I wouldn't but in those of StayQrious. I've provided a link tell them I sent you. That really supports for sponsoring this video and I have to say this topic. One about a champion of critical Now although Dabholkar was engaged in the poor and underprivileged escape these he did create enemies as well. These for actively destroying their customer As far as they were concerned, he had to Meanwhile Dr Dabholkar was engaged in more than improve the welfare - the living conditions he was involved in a social initiative called village - One well. This was even before his was actively involved in a movement for the and one that fought against the caste system of books on superstitions and their eradication, and Meanwhile his enemies weren't sitting idly against Dabholkar saying that if he continued danger. Dabholkar ignored these and when he was &quot;If I have to take police protection then there is something wrong with me, Indian constitution and it is not Unknown to him, this would 20th August 2013. Narendra Dabholkar was out on his usual morning turn out to be his last. As he neared the pulled up next to him. They fired 4 bullets at immediately. Two of the bullets hit Dabholkar Although the assailants were never caught, to the Hindu group Sanatan Sanstha. The same group Pansare and Kalburgi. And even though it's the culprits have never been captured. Isn't that their customs and traditions are under are the ones with so much power that With this, India lost a premier leader got stronger. The pending Anti-Superstition and only four days after his death. MANS, of the rationalist's murder, grew to The incident also led to a nationwide debate rationalist thought. Dabholkar's daughter of a Nationwide Anti-Superstition had his ashes after cremation scattered over In a way, the alleged terrorist organization's on them. Like the Streisand effect, all it they wanted to brush under a rug. And are the ones that care about society even though the religious ones portray themselves Even to this day, Narendra Dabholkar is someone even the simplest things in life. Indian stories like these that I plan to bring out make sure you subscribe. My entire channel and if you are interested in that, then if you do like my work, then I'd encourage I've linked below. I'd also like to thank The sponsor I've associated my channel with, goals and the goals of the channel, that I there is a child you care about, it doesn't a nephew, a cousin - I'm sure StayQrious make sure you check them out at the If you liked this video, you might also like this one I did on the history I'll see you in the next one, till