G'day and welcome back. Let's There's quite a bit of backlash in these areas, so let's strip it down, take some Let's grab a dial indicator and On the cross feed, it looks like I have about On the compound, it looks like I have about Working from the top down, I'll take off the These handles are threaded onto the screws, and I actually started this disassembly and it took me a long time to I'll spare you the clips which include It turns out, someone had helpfully put loctite I guess a nyloc nut might help things I'm just removing the compound slide, and to my surprise the nut of the I'll try nipping up the grub screw, and grub screw which is missing. And yeah, Previously this compound nut It's not all good news though, here's a problem off. There should be a slot here which is captive push and pull on the gib. As it is, it can only That'll need attention sooner rather than The compound is connected to an adapter to the T-slots, and the T-slots This means I can move the for larger or smaller jobs and that gives me There's a pair of thrust bearings in each axis, the balls is missing, so I think I'll Now I'm looking at the cross feed nut, and pretty much closed down tight. I want to much wear there is without the compensation, There's still a lot of play. So - I think we're Looking inside the nut, I know that these the crest of the threads, but they are sharp. so this nut is about to give up entirely. This So.. 0.6mm axial play, and sharp threads inside, and no adjustment left... Luckily the screw is in really great condition. The compound nut though (and its screw), see those flat thread crests, and there's came from the nut not being Let's get some metric thread gauges and the hand wheel markings that they are 2.5mm definitely both 2.5mm screws. And the clearance You can see the crossfeed one is a Now, I think the reason the crossfeed nut has the screw is damaged. And, looking at the I'm just measuring up approximately, size these holes are, and I'll get won't arrive in time for this video to So, one bad nut, one good nut and two I should get some outside measurements for this I've got this piece of aluminium bronze, but I'll show you why I think it's bronze. This is brass, and no response at all to and the magnets do stick to it slightly. nickel and iron in aluminium bronze, is with a magnet. Aluminium bronze is so I previously did a scratch test, and this new but not vise versa. Brass would have One final clue that this is bronze not that makes it look like it's Ok, I've just cut a blank out, and it's What I need to do now, is block this piece up. So, I'm standing it on one parallel so that the bottom face doesn't Now I'm picking out a sharp end mill, it will be ideal for the bronze. because the finish on here is Now I'm standing the part up on two parallels, I just can't resist using my lapping plate, attached to a flat panel. Seems like any I can't resist putting a nice shiny finish on it. Just the last few tooling marks Obviously this is going back in the mill vise, and if I lap as I go, I don't end up with a grossly I try to leave a bit of extra With that said, for the dimensions on this block, all but one of them are totally unimportant. edges are all just sitting in fresh The only measurement that really that's the bit that touches the and the height of the finished If that height is wrong, then it will and we'll get binding and premature wear on the Although most of the dimensions here are not to dimensions as though they are critical, it's You can't see it very well here but I'm where he suggests that we push down on the and that seems to result in a nice flat face. I like it when the things I make And all too often, they look The last cuts are the end faces of this I find that with side milling, if I of the slivers that are produced, I get a So, I'm trying to inspect the hole size in the I don't have pin gauges yet. I'd love a set, best I can do is to use a fairly new set of twist and it fits in there very snugly and down. The thread being this worn means So here's the block, milled to size. We now need to find out and mark I've stripped off my surface plate - which is of course very nice, I'm taking the scriber out of my height gauge, now I'll fit up the holder for my DTI I have actually used a small clamp to hold it's a bit of an ugly, unsatisfying solution. So Ok, this scriber measures a hair under 10mm, and I wonder if I can modify it. It's been I'll use this livetools carbide end And - it's actually milling very nicely. and it did cut. So, it's not harder than I don't think it's mild or annealed, I'll check that with the mic. And.. I'm 0.02mm This is the lapped finish, and I can't feel I clamp that into the arm of the height This lets me use my nice stable height gauge Quick tip for beginners, DTI stands Now I have a nice straight piece of 12.7mm nut very lightly clamped to the plate, so keep it from rocking and rolling while There's tons of play in the vertical check the height alignment of this nut when it play might mean the height of the thread is it may have worn to a new vertical position that's I'll need to find a happy average so I'm using an adjustable parallel at one end so I'll just make a few adjustments. The to go this narrow, but I'm making After some fiddling around, I can get it to I measure that parallel, and get 9.03mm. So just to double check things, and to give I'm going to wring up a stack that matches I'll slide that underneath the rod, zero it on and on the inboard end, I've centered the and this is how I work out my average. Now all I need to record is and half the diameter of the rod. That's where I've got a few more measurements to take. so a caliper measurement is fine. Most of this good a job as I can anyway - I don't want Now I'll make a trapezoidal cutting tool by colouring it in blue, and scribing on a 30 degree I'll think about tip width later, for now I and the clearances needed for a left hand thread. The flanks seem to match up, the width seems and the way I got the tip width right I set the calipers to the right size, until it only just catches in both directions. Ok that's done. If the tool tip is slightly narrower than It does make the tool a little weaker, deeper than the book says, but the slight doesn't hurt anything. Not enough So now I'm going to use a little bit of with marking out. I'd like to mark out these There are six lines to scribe, and Here I've got the main hole for the clamp hole for the backlash adjuster, and I'm using a tool here called a prick punch, now handy. It's a sharper thinner version of a centre I line it up best I can, then rotate 90 and Once those are marked, I follow it up with a it locates easily in the previous marks, Just visually comparing those locations, and I'm pretty happy how those have come out. At the mill, I'll use my home made and locate those points. Then I'll and I lock both axes. I don't have the pointy type so I made this pointer tool for locating Now I'm using the spot drill to I can use the tap drill size for the mounting and doing this hole ahead of the lead screw I think it will be better if the lead screw so I'll do this one first and the lead threads later, but I can't easily clean Now it's time to align the stock in the 4 jaw, the old trick of indicating on a free floating I'll drill this out to 12.5mm which is the right And I'll deburr that freshly cut edge. I've set up the lathe change gears and gearbox it's an internal thread, it's not that easy to I've come up with another way. I'm making a and I'm using a long travel indicator to see how A DRO would make this even easier of course. I'll test the pitch a few times, but my Still even with my bang-off technique, there's no cumulative error after several Everything seems good, so I'm so I take a scratch pass I'll need to leave the lead screw engaged, because this is an imperial lathe, And now, it's just a lot of rinse and repeat. I can only push the tool forwards out of the cut the back of the bore, so I've marked a couple which give me some zero points with backlash This just makes things more foolproof, allows and it puts the tool centred in the available gap I'm periodically just sanity to make sure that I've not There's a lot of repetition here, because I'm feeding in perpendicular with the to provide some extra stability and take Eventually that lead screw goes all no play in any direction, and it took quite a It did go all the way in by hand though, didn't so I took one more final 0.001&quot; axial clearance fit, with no binding or problems. We've gotta So this is the final nut, it looks great to me, to machine the backlash compensation just yet. I just thought that until there's some it's going to perform better as a lead very little extra work to cut the slot, and Let's get this nut back on the lathe. I won't the reverse of what I showed earlier. I am will definitely help. The only note in reassembly everything is tight together and aligned and this So here is the new backlash I'd say that's about as good as I could ever Very nice, this cross slide will now be There's still more to do on the lathe, hopefully I can now start Thanks for watching, see you next time.