Or the second miss of the Wen family Tell me about it. This kidnapped the chairperson of the Wen Group How much do you want? It's not up to us. I warn you Play less I only owe your casino 10 million No matter how much All have to be credited to my account Oh, dear. Don't worry, my second lady of the Wen family. I will definitely empty out the Wen family's house After all, you will need more gambling money in Macau in the future Right? Hurry up! While they go out to eat Haven't come back yet What are you going to do to my dad dad Dad? What did you do to my dad? Dad, what the hell are you calling here? I just went to Dad's tea Just put some sleeping pills Mom? Why would you do that? You didn't know dad had a heart attack Can't you touch nerve drugs? When? It's your village girl's turn to take care of my business I'll tell you what. The Wen family is my home What do I want? What comes naturally You don't really think I call you sister You are really my sister, right? Dad loves you the most Why did you kidnap with these people? Dad, when I was 5 years old He was taken from the orphanage by his parents to the Wen family They naturally love me the most And you What if it's my parents' own? Even if you are a cow and a horse in the Wen Group all day long So what? Tell you Since I brought you back from the country They despise you all the time Whatever you say. I won't let you hurt Dad Nosy Right? I'll let you take care of it. If only it were outside Dad? Dad, are you okay? Dad, wake up Dad and sister, I beg you Don't take it away Your people are gone What do you have time to say now that you are injured? Your sister, stop hitting me Don't hit me What are you doing? How dare you hit Manman? She's your sister No, not me. Fourth brother Don't blame my sister. I heard from people who follow my sister online My sister lost a lot of money gambling You have no choice, that's why How dare you gamble outside? No, no, I didn't. Stop arguing. Dad? Dad? Don't call me dad I don't have a cold-blooded daughter like you Your mother and I have worked hard for more than ten years Bring you back to us You actually joined forces with outsiders to kidnap me No dad not me It's mom You did something wrong. You still slander your sister? Manman grew up Growing up with your mother and me I know what kind of person she is better than you She would never do such a thing Uncle Wen Get out of Wen's house From now on My Wen family doesn't have a white-eyed wolf daughter like you to go Isn't it me? Dad? roll Kiki's dad just woke up You should stop provoking him Don't worry. Will lie to you, you bastard I didn't mean to. I'm helping my sister get too emotional Be your own mother I really didn't mean to. It's okay, don't cry. It's okay to cry The third brother is a lawyer Third brother will help you I'd say it's not a pity for such a person to die It's not worth crying for such a person We brothers will handle the follow-up. You have nothing to blame yourself for. He accidentally fell. It has nothing to do with you. Your dad is right He fell by himself. What does it have to do with us Manman? Manman, don't be afraid We will testify to you Let's go Shouldn't he be dead? Say why did you push it down just now? Sister, today is our birthday. We should have cut the cake together What are you doing? Don't waste our time Hurry up and cut the cake with Manman Ah! I was wrong. So I'm being reborn. The year after graduating from college cry Just cry Do you know that Manman's orange is me? The highlands you bought from abroad with your dad Why don't you quickly apologize to Manman? He said I pushed it, you believe it Manman has always been cute How could she possibly frame you? So You also think I pushed her He is well-behaved and sensible What about me? I've been coming back to this house all these years. You forbid me from making new friends. Don't let me go out I graduated from college and want to start my own business You insist that I stay in the company Bring you tea and water Print file All these years I take care of everything But you still think I'm not good enough here Don't do it right I didn't understand before What exactly can I do to satisfy you? Get your approval Now I understand. You despise me from the bottom of your heart I feel like I was left outside by you all those years It's a stain on your Zhou En family What do you mean? Talk back to me Mom Stop arguing with your sister It's all my fault You are always bullied like this again and again He also helped her say good things again and again Don't worry, your mother is here. No one dares to bully you! Guan Shuyan, either you kneel down today You apologize slowly Either you get out of my house now apologize OK. Apologize, okay? Heh heh Third brother, do you think he will apologize? Tell me about it. He'll be on his knees begging for mercy He finally got back to your house How can you give up easily? A spineless person like him Not worthy of the surname Wen at all Sister, I won't make it difficult for you. I'm going to tell mom In fact, I accidentally fell. It turned out that you accidentally fell. It makes you look pathetic. For whom? Since I fell by yourself Why should I apologize? It was you who fell This slap should fall on your face Sister, stop hitting It's all my fault It's all my fault I accidentally fell It has nothing to do with you Wei Shuyan, are you going to rebel? You should be beaten if you make a mistake It's your house rule Are you crazy? I think you are really crazy. I'm with you guys every day. No wonder you're not crazy What's your attitude? Today is Manman's birthday As a sister, you are too ignorant. It's her birthday today. Nice But it's also my birthday From now on, you will be the child of our Wen family Baby, what was it? You have a sister But he's not at home now. We didn't raise him well. But we will definitely raise you well. What about his birthday? Is May 18th In the future, your birthday will also be May 18, okay? Okay, go, go. Happy birthday, Dad! Thanks. Big brother, second brother, third brother, fourth brother Happy Birthday What color is this? You guess Happy Birthday Thanks. Can you take it apart now? Yes, yes. Look at us, these two are the third child. How can you remember everything when you're so busy? You didn't say it earlier Now blame us. I see you have graduated from college I feel like my wings are hard, right? So what are you doing here? Get out of my house now You don't have to say I can go by myself Wen Shuyan, are you crazy? Get out and don't go through my door again So naive Is he trying to piss me off? Don't be angry It's all my fault If it weren't for me You and your sister won't quarrel anymore My sister won't run away from home either Run away from home Manman, you look up to her too much, right? That Wen Shuyan Just a little village girl in the country Without our Wen family He didn't even know where he was going. The third is right It's not the first time he's made a mistake Which mistake is not to stand at the door without leaving? The third is right I guess he's still waiting at the door shameless skinless I'm just losing my Wen family Manman Third brother will show you what is dead face This village girl is really gone Once I lived under the oppression and control of the Wen family Whether it's my thoughts or my dreams Ruthlessly suppressed dad No way. I haven't seen it yet Is it Manman? Ha ha. You say okay? It will work. Your plan doesn't need to be sent. In this way, I will find finance to allocate funds for you in a while. But Winmanman was just being coquettish They give him a lot of money to squander Now I don't need your charity anymore. This time I'm going to step on the trend wave Create a miracle for yourself Hello, Brother Hai I want to see you. I've been busy lately I can not You see you see You see that chick is nice Right? Hey What about Shu Yan and Manman's people? Hey, let me ask you where they are. So-yeon, she ran away from home Pardon me? Dad, you don't know And me? It's because I didn't remember Wen Shuyan's birthday Today, she hit Manman He also contradicted his mother I just want her to apologize and admit her mistake And she's making a fuss about running away from home. Manman always said it was his fault Not only did he not blame the uncle I also went to find my uncle on purpose This is outrageous You said that for such a large human and material resources Is it just to get him back? Did you block yourself? If he were half as sensible as Manman How nice that would be Mom for the kind who doesn't have a tutor It is not worth the sadness of those who do not understand gratitude Boss is right This is the Wen residence There is no reason for his anti-heaven So old four You'll get someone to pack all his luggage in a while All dumped in the school dormitory This time if he still doesn't repent Don't even think about entering the door of my Wen family in the future Don't worry. I will put him Everything is sent back to school for him by the way I let everyone at his school know what kind of virtue he is Right OK Let's eat first Hi beautiful woman Play alone I know a fun place How about I go play? Meet these people It's bad luck for you and Shuyun Yes, but it depends on whether you live or not Hahaha no You are so young So loud Who do you think you are? Brother Hai from Binhai? Brother Hai from Binhai is one of the best big brothers How could I possibly know him? I guess he knew someone I don't know him, do I? Who is so unqualified? What are you doing? Hey, Brother Hai Hey, I just want to pick up a girl I never thought of getting in your way. Pick up girls Yeah, little bitch What are you doing? Call me! Hello Hello Hai Ge Hai Ge misunderstood Brother Yan misunderstood You hit me Who are you asking me? Don't get through Are you all right? Ah! Why are you so thin? I just eat less You If you don't want to say it, forget it. How do you deal with these people? I'm going to make them disappear forever on the seashore Did you hear what my sister said? Take it away for me I still remember when they used to look down on me in the village I don't think I'm capable Is that you? Secretly bring me food and drink every day You were young It's that high. I didn't expect my ex to grow into a big girl directly I remember my grandmother adopted it How is grandma now? Grandma is gone Yeah. People always leave when they get old Don't be too sad Hey, didn't you get found by the Wen family? And she is also the eldest lady of the Wen family I really thought You will never call me again in your life Who are you calling? Mom, I gave it to a brother in my village He came to Binhai City a few years ago I want to tell him in person that I found my parents Your poor village What kind of decent people can there be in a remote village? Every poor man stinks I'm warning you! Now you are back at Wen's house Those who were not three or four in the past You'd better contact them less. Do you hear me? Do you understand? I will contact Togo in the future hahaha. That's right. In Binhai in the future? Who dares to bully you? Your brother Hai will be the first to clean him up Hey, that's right, that's right. This one. 3 million you want, take it Brother, I will pay back the money ASAP. Hey, your brother knows how you are. What's more, you are my sister If you don't pay the money back Just treat it as a gift from my brother. But aren't you the eldest lady of the Wen family? I have nothing to do with the Wen family in the future Courageous brother likes it hahaha Fourth young master, this is a large and small villa That's all. That's all. How is that possible? He has lived in our house for so many years How can there be only so many clothes? Look for it again Really no more. The fourth young master and the eldest lady have always been these pieces. And school uniforms Because it's too small to wear Just threw it away Uh-huh. Sorry sister I didn't mean to. Manman has already apologized Who are you showing your face to? Your clothes smell so bad At first glance, it came from the countryside If I were you, I should thank Manman By the way, I will help you dispose of the garbage. She has lived in our house for so many years How could her clothes be missing? He must have left it on purpose to pretend to be pitiful for us. School dormitory He must have worn those nice clothes They all stayed in the school to show off Wen Shuyan lives in a place like this Yes, this is it. Did you make a mistake? He is the eldest lady of the Wen family How could you possibly live in a place like this? Miss That's not possible. Wen Shuyuan has been in college since then It's been work-study. Fortunately, he did well in his studies. There's a prize every year. Scholarship delivery That's right. Since you are Wen Shuyan's brother Then take him a pen back This pen he said was a gift from his brother I take it with me every day and wipe it off. Very precious. Lost it some time ago. Cried for a long time Fortunately, I found him again. Su Ge Your pen Why are you still wearing this dress? Who do you pretend to be pitiful every day? Fourth brother Hey don't come near me it's dirty Fourth brother, I'm not dirty And I washed my hands Just that country smell on you No matter how you wash it, it can't be cleaned. I don't want this pen anymore If you like it Here it is for you. Really? Fourth brother, thank you. I didn't expect it. He actually left the pen behind You really want to buy all of our shops? Exactly. As long as you agree to sign a store sale contract You can take all the cash from the right store in full first come first served I sign me Sign me sign me sign me sign me sign me sign me sign me Sign me sign me sign me sign me sign me sign me sign me There's a pen. There's a pen. Ok ok I have signed it. I signed it. I signed it. Ok ok ok I have signed it. Dad has done everything he told you to do What was his reaction when he saw those things? Are you freaking out? Go ahead. Is Wen Shuyan already waiting at the door to come back? Apologize to dad Brother, I have been in their school during this time I haven't seen him either. I heard that he borrowed a lot of money from Brother Hai, who manages Binhai City What official You said he would rather borrow money than go home Are you having a bad time at our house? It was indeed the responsibility of his parents to get lost as a child But his parents have already found him Even if he was raised in the country full of bad habits We all accepted him unconditionally The Wen family has never let him down But he ran outside Borrow money from those who are not in the mainstream big brother Did he really have nowhere to go before borrowing money? Why don't we go get him back now? Don't worry, you forgot how he contradicted Mom. How to treat Manman's mother People like him have to teach him a lesson Brother, but I know He'll come back sooner or later to pretend to be pitiful Anyway, he is the most pitiful Like that time he deliberately didn't use an umbrella Come back in the rain Just to pretend to be pitiful in front of us By the way, and that umbrella Brother, I actually hid that umbrella. What else? Didn't he always wear a tattered school uniform? I picked it up too And I threw her schoolbag in the garden too She's your sister? How could you do this to her? big brother I just couldn't get used to seeing her in front of us Be careful Wagging your tail begging for mercy But now I think about it. Does he not know at all? How to get along with us He just tries to get close to you What's his phone number? He has lived in our house for so long We don't even know his phone number Find it for me right away Wen Shuyan Mr. Wen Someone is at the door of the private club hosted by the Su Group I saw the lady Su's Group Investment Association It's all business celebrities from Binhai What was he doing there? Oh, I see. I'll be right there Brother, I will go with you. Brother, I'll get you takeout Enter the e-commerce market In just a few months Businesses on the verge of collapse come back to life A businesswoman named Wen Shuyan Relying on their high-level market estimates Upwind Become the founder of a new coffee brand in a short period of time The takeaway-based sales channel has successfully broken the waves skyrocketing value It is rumored that I will also participate in the banquet of Su Shi Group this time. Celebrity Club We Su Dong are looking forward to being able to attend today's banquet Meet Miss Wen On behalf of our Su Dong, I would like to thank Miss Wen for coming You Su Dong know me, Miss Wen Don't you know our Su Dong? I have been paying attention to you for a long time. Sorry. Miss Wen, wait a minute Ten Yuan. Not enough messing around at home Do you still want to come here to make trouble? It's not enough to mess around at home Are you going to come here and mess around? You think it's not enough to oppress me at home Now you want to run outside to show off your power, right? Shu Yan used to be the fourth brother who did something wrong Come home with us I heard right The young masters of the Wen family are busy people Come to me when you still have time We are your brothers How dare you talk to us like that What do you want me to say? Ah, I see. How about before? I always bow and bow to you in your Wen family grovel Just like the servants of the Wen family Uncle, the fourth brother said We're all family. Let's talk Let's go home first I don't have a home. No family Maybe we ignored you before But you can't just get our attention I came here on purpose to make trouble Do you know what this place is? Even I can't speak here You are making trouble here It is the face of the entire Wen family that is lost. Master Shu This is the private club of the Su Group Today, their CEO Su Invited all the business celebrities in our city They all meet here. I don't know. Do you want to do it this way? To catch my attention But no matter how much you mess around He won't let you in either Let me go home. Sorry, Miss Wei. Sorry to keep you waiting. We can go in now. Sorry Miss Wan Sorry to keep you waiting. We can go in now. He is Su Dong's secretary How could he possibly know Su Yan? You two are the eldest and fourth young masters of the Wen family Is it Miss Wen? I don't know them well. Master Shu Please also ask the Wen family Fourth young master self-respect Master Shu Brother, I remember It seems that even you You are not eligible to participate in today's investment meeting, right? Even Dad has to rely on the face of the Wen family To take Manman in Wen Shuyan, how did she do it? No. Mr. Su Everyone attending the banquet is on the first floor, hahaha. Su Dong Old Dong Su I once ordered dolls for Su Dong and our Wen family, dear. Now we are growing up Let's see when Su Dong can fulfill the engagement If memory serves Back then, your Wen family Order a doll with our Su family, dear. It should be the eldest lady of the Wen family And I heard that as early as 10 years ago The eldest lady of the Wen family has been taken back to the Wen family Dad, let's hurry up and get my sister back I know you're still angry Sister hit me Contradicting mom But we are family after all Okay, don't mention that unfilial daughter to me Ha ha. Su Dongshi told the truth The man who was adopted by Manjushri I have been raising it in the countryside It's a waste Mr. Su, the guest you personally invited has arrived. Dad? This is the first time I have seen Su Dong care so much about someone Yes! What kind of person can be welcomed by Chairperson Su in person? Go and see Hey Su Dong Su Dong I don't know who the guest is. Can you let Su Dong greet him in person? She's a very capable girl. Before the rise of takeout He went all out. Bought all the businesses downstairs of the Su Group Make coffee into a unified chain And with the help of food delivery platforms Expand your user and commodity resources At present, it has attracted many merchants to take the initiative. Listen to what Su Dong said It's not to be underestimated. I remember. His last name seems to be Peng too. I remember. His surname seems to be Wu and Wen too What a coincidence Both girls People start from scratch But my sister is still having a conflict with my mother, right? I know when my sister will be back. If your sister had half the skills I knelt down and asked her to come home Mom, Dad Mr. Su, where are you? Ah! I have heard Su Dong tell me about you. I hope we can have the opportunity to cooperate in the future. You are the sister that Su Dong mentioned, right? I didn't expect to be so young Hey Why are you here? Hey you Why are you here? I said it sounded so familiar It turned out to be the president of Wen's Sister, even if our Wen family and Dong Su have a marriage But you can't save Su Dong either Sneak in Do you know Today's investment meeting It is very important to our Wen Group You see? That is Su Shi The only successor to the group Just came back from abroad not long ago Leading the Su Group One more floor on the waterfront I heard from Dad that Lao Su Dong made a reservation for our family for Su Dong Dear, is it true? Of course it's true. Although Su Dong is a few years older than Master Shu But he is Binhai's famous diamond king A talented person I heard there are a lot of socialites these days In order to marry into the Su family, I squeezed my head Where do you want to marry the Su family? You must choose a girl who is the right match for Su Dongneng Although you are a little more suitable in age than Manman But you grew up in the country. Don't know anything. Will not Even if your dad and I force you over Su Dong won't look at you more So I heard. He bought all the shops on the first floor of our company But our company's traffic counting is not big And he went for broke without even knowing it. Everyone in our company says he's crazy Business is about the future Not in front of you Good at shedding small profits to go to Dali That's the real way to do business. I heard that several companies are promoting takeout apps recently. It's not formed yet. But for modern people Speed and convenience will eventually become a major trend He's not crazy. Is a genius It was you Yeah, it's me. Yeah, it's me. elder sister I know you always miss Su Dong But if you really want to marry Su Dong You can tell your parents. There's really no need for this. Although she is the daughter adopted by the Wen family But I never thought of robbing my sister of anything Is this the eldest lady of the Wen family? No wonder Wen Dou and his wife usually don't take her out Look at her. How can you still look like a socialite? I heard After this Miss Wen was lost Was brought to the country by someone else to raise This is definitely not comparable to the second miss of the Wen family. Even if the second lady is adopted It's me, I will also choose the second lady How long are you going to lose face here? Hurry up and get back to me It is my pleasure to be appreciated by Miss Wen You are the rising star of the business This is what dared to do before the rise of takeout Franchise chain businesswoman You see how much Dong Su values him It can't be wrong. Such brains and courage at a young age The future is really limitless Dad? My father is the chairperson of the Wen Group How dare you bump into him! Ok ok ok Dad? Dad, I'm thirsty Oh. I'm thirsty, isn't it? I'll find someone to buy it for you right away, okay? Ok, thanks. Hello dad Come on, let's go back and talk It's my problem. Su Dong, you don't have to give me face Wait for me to come home I must punish him well I must explain to Dong Su what happened today Wen Dong joked I've never had to think about other people's faces when I do things This is my private club Wen Dongxiao drove away my distinguished guest Ask me if I agree What is the status of the guest? Let Suzhou greet him in person Is a very powerful girl Before the rise of foreign media He went all out. Bought all the shops downstairs of Su Shi Group I remember. He seems to have a last name too Yuan is the rising commercial star Dad? You mean Wen Shuyan broke into Binhai's business circle? Dad, stop kidding He usually doesn't dare to talk louder to us at home How could such a timid and cowardly person enter the business district? He was picked by those business celebrities in Binhai today Flattery I saw it with my own eyes Can this be fake? No wonder even Chairperson Su's secretary gave him a high look You can take off in a short period of time Such people are indeed worthy of attention Wen Shuyan is not as powerful as she said She can be today It's not the capital given by our Wen family Mom Shu Yan didn't use a penny of the money at home Pardon me? He borrowed all his money from outside He was a man who grew up in the country. Who will lend him money? People are not looking at the Wen family's face Thinking of having the Wen family to back him up Otherwise, who would lend him money? Mom It must be because my sister is still mad at me Will be angry with dad Today, when dad was hit by someone and almost fell My sister doesn't even want to look at my father It was my fault. I'm going to my sister to apologize now, mom. It was his conscience that was eaten by the dog It has nothing to do with you. Sit down. Right Our family has taken care of him for so many years He still doesn't care about Dad He's just an unfamiliar white-eyed wolf What did the Wen family take care of him? These years Do you know how Shu Yan managed in the Wen family? What does the Wen family take care of him? Our Wen family is delicious and delicious, and we serve him What's wrong with him? Ultimately Is this person still not familiar with toads? Okay, okay. Stop arguing Dad, don't be angry anymore Look at how filial Manman is filial piety What is the use of filial piety? Today at the Su Family Clubhouse Su Dong didn't want to talk to him at all Look at Wen Shuyan again In a short time, it became an instant hit in the Binhai business circle Even Su Dong You must personally send a secretary to invite him to the Su family's banquet Shu Yan is so excellent Should be proud of him It's just a little achievement What's there to be complacent about? Besides, without the training of our Wen family There is no experience of Wen Shuyan Okay, okay. Stop talking Getting people back is what matters But I said get him back I want to marry the Su family You must choose a girl who is the right match for Su Dongneng I never imagined that one day I would be able to stand side by side with Su Dong In fact, you have long been by my side Ah! Ah! Hey, wake up Don't you sleep? You hold on, wake up Hold on! I've called an ambulance, wake up. Hey Hey, don't sleep. It was you I've been looking for you for so many years I didn't expect it to be far away Near You are the eldest lady of the literary family How does it feel to be on high? It's not enough. I want to stand higher. Let those who despise me learn to look up to me You and the Wen family Hello Mr. Wen is on a business trip Get down to business Mr. Wen just got the news There are a large number of chains entering the takeout industry These chains Not only does it replicate the business model of our coffee shop It also includes food, including fast food Mr. Wen has entered the takeaway platform since those chain institutions Our coffee has been completely suppressed. Today's income has not even returned the principal Go on like this We're sure to be completely crushed It seems that capital has accumulated They fight us like this The price war won't last long After all, they don't want lose-lose money Mr. Wen just had a joint venture with Huateng Capital Ben called us Said it was interested in acquiring all the coffee shops in our name Also includes our chain of brands They were clearly trying to take advantage of the fire Mr. Wen, we must fight hard to resist Absolutely cannot be humiliated Ask them if they would like to buy it. And to sell it clean You go and notify those capital now They want to buy what I'm holding Yes, but the price is double. If they don't want to If you want to continue the price war Then even if I take it off, I have to take off a layer of their skin It's Mr. Wen I'll contact you right away. That capital Madness suppresses you In order to get something for nothing You're ready to give it up Really reconciled Coffee chains seem to be running rampant But Binhai City's consumer base is fixed Even if those capital didn't step in today later There will also be a large number of retail investors who will want a piece of the pie At that time, there will be more wolves and less meat Now is my wisest choice Besides, these I was the one who opened the door to Binhai Market Just a stepping stone You already have a plan for the next step Are you ready to enter the automotive industry? It's a new energy vehicle. The capital just released the news. Say The eldest lady has agreed to transfer all the property in her hands Transfer All Wen Shuyan I didn't expect you to be unable to weigh it so soon Tell them. Be sure to divide Wen Shuyan cleanly It's the second lady See what I said. Wen Shuyan is completely by luck To emerge in the business world of Binhai Now he's out of luck I can only exit in embarrassment How capable do you think you are? The result was reduced to a laughing stock Mom and Dad Shu Yan are in trouble now We are also a family We should bring him back now Why bring him back? Let our Wen family lose face with him? Dad? sir Lady Four young master The eldest lady is back, really It's true that the eldest lady is at the door now Hey, what are you in a hurry? At this time, she can't get along outside She is in a hurry to come back Since Ma Shuyan has come back Don't be angry. After all, we are family too He wants to come back But you have to admit it. Zhang Ma goes Bring me the belt I'm going to beat him to his knees today Beg us to let him go back to Wen's house Yes, ma'am. roll Oh, isn't this our Binhai business star? What brings you here? Or you can't get along outside I can only escape home in despair Since Ma Shuyuan has come back Don't be angry. Our Wen family is not some country shack Come when you want Go if you want Why are you laughing? You know I've been in your Wen family all these years What you've told me the most is You kneel down for me and admit your mistake Kneel down and ask you to kneel down and admit your mistake Mom, I was wrong. Not anymore. Hmm. I hit you not for your own good If it weren't for the blood of the Wen family flowing on you Do you have the right to let me hit you? As soon as you enter the door, you question the elders This is your upbringing Hmm, I see You were really raised by that rural old woman Those years in the countryside It wasn't my fault. It's not grandma's fault You left me outside If my grandmother hadn't picked me up and raised me There is no me today Humph That's how you go home and say you're wrong. Take a look! What's the difference between a beast Wen Shuyan Why don't you kneel on the ground today and kowtow and admit your mistake? You don't want to go back to Wen's house It turns out that you were all expecting me to come back and admit my mistake. Sorry about that. I'm afraid I'm going to disappoint you I came back today to find him. I came back this time to find him. elder sister Manman, don't be afraid There is a mother I see who dares Bully you I see. You always think Your mom and I took a little more care of Manman But you don't know In the days when I lost you They all spent time with us slowly Anyway. Manman, she's your sister, too Why do you have to keep targeting her? I target her During this time Manman has been blaming himself for you running away from home And you bully her everywhere Aren't you just relying on yourself to be our biological daughter? Do you despise Manman? I bullied him. Shuya, say less Let's apologize to our parents It's over Stay away from me Don't mention it so close I disgust your dad Don't be angry. Since my sister said it was my fault It's my fault! I am willing to be punished for my sister You silly girl I'm still willing to speak for her at this time Wen Shuye I must let you know what is wrong today Before you force me to admit my mistake Open your dog eyes first Take a good look Do you have this good daughter in your mouth? What is this? Manman Since the combination of other capital Evolve a winning and losing chain brand Here it is. What the hell is going on? I I Carefully cared for since childhood Binhai Ruyue, who grew up in the Wen family But a person who owes someone else's life behind his back This is what you call a good daughter She is also your good daughter. You people come home Just to sue your sister Are you such a sister? That's right, I came back to complain. By the way, let's take a look again You are twisted because you are angry about eating chicken Okay, what to say I'm done. I saw what I should have seen I won't disturb your warm family time roll you Mom and Dad, I know I was wrong. I really know I was wrong. Never again. Why did you join forces with outside capital to harm your sister? I know Dad Dao always wanted his sister to come home I just thought if my sister's salary was gone Then my sister will definitely be willing to go home You did this for us? I just want our family to be together Mom and Dad really didn't expect Things can get so serious I really know I was wrong. Okay, okay. Stop crying! Get up first Kids are for us too You can stop blaming him. Look at Manman's legs are kneeling red Mom, Manman only knelt for a while What about Shuyan before? Shuyan knelt for a few hours Even a day and a night Have you ever met her? Manman learned to dance at an early age These legs are precious Unlike Wen Shuyan, who grew up in the countryside Pi Shi is used to it Say Binhai's top dance teacher He also praised Manman's beautiful legs. This is not something Wen Shuyan can compare to Mom ok All right. I heard there's a new Michelin. Why don't we try it? Bar Mom and Dad's attention will always be on Manman No wonder Shu Yan doesn't want to come back Young Master and Miss School is here Your idol singer Wen Lechen You are Shuyan's teacher I am Wen Shuyan's class director The other students packed up the dormitory early Only Wen Shuyan has not come back for a long time I checked the home address left in his student file Just found it here In the years when you debuted Once performed at our school Wen Shuyuan was at school several days in advance Take your poster and help you promote it. I was working hard Everyone at school thinks he's your fan Hello Let's start the Wen Luochun concert Hello Look at Wen Luochun's concert Brother is very nice Did you see our brother? Brother 4 Fourth brother You know him? I don't know, drive him away. Fourth brother fourth brother Silly Sister Why didn't I know sooner? Fourth, you Yes. What's wrong? Big brother is not ignored by parents It's all of us who are rejecting him He used to run so hard towards us We pushed him away. Fourth, you mean Manman United Capital makes a game Swallowed Wen Shiyuan's brand Exactly. Manman has always been gentle and kind Could it be a mistake? Or Wen Shuyan framed Wenmanman big brother You have something to do with me The fourth said there was a surprise No need, no time to waste on you April Please allow the fourth brother to say happy belated birthday to you. Happy Birthday Mom Thank you, big brother. Second brother and third brother Happy Birthday Thanks. Can you take it apart now? Yes, yes, look at me Mr. Wen's takeaway market remains stable Our company has accumulated customers before. And connections So Our current takeaway market is still firmly in the top three I knew this earlier Don't say it's twice We shouldn't sell it at 5 times the price. Torrents can not only come in You can surge back. The fat meat on the takeaway platform It will soon attract more capital to intervene But the population for takeout is limited It will be in short supply from the beginning It becomes a situation where there are more wolves and less meat At that time, don't say it was double the price. Even if we lose money People don't necessarily pay What Mr. Wen means is We sell while it's hot Exactly. The hot sales of the brand chain are only temporary. In a few years The national brand chain will crowd the market We just keep discovering new projects And walk ahead of others To be exclusive Introduce These two are new colleagues in our company. Responsible for the research and development of our company's new projects President Wen, the eldest and fourth young masters of the Wen family are here Just outside. Uncle Wen, what are you doing? What do I do? You can't see it. Or did you not see clearly? Need me to say it again Uncle Wen, do you have a conscience? This is what the fourth child specially made up for you. Birthday present My conscience should have been fed to the dog long ago How can you be so heartless? Did you know that the fourth child is an idol singer? He has already ignored the paparazzi's candid photography Standing here bluffing you What more do you want? Why should I accept you if you apologize? Shuyuan Fourth Brother I know you're mad at us But you are our Wen family after all You have to go home after all family I warn you to get away You will never appear in front of me That's my greatest wish. big brother We're going home. When you were in school Did you play a few jokes with him? As for his grudge until now I'm not the only one who owes him It's the whole Wen family What! What are those? those It's the fourth young master in the packing box of the eldest lady's school Found Tell us to take it to your study and show it to you. Today is Chinese New Year. I wish big brother all the best Today is Big Brother's birthday I wish big brother a safe year I heard that the eldest brother is the executive CEO of the company Big brother is awesome I am here to wish the big brother a prosperous career Here it is. This is written by the eldest lady The eldest lady said that the eldest young master looks strong In fact, he is a very serious person Never express to the outside world own feelings The eldest lady also said This is how you teach So all these years The greetings he has been writing to the eldest young master Quietly put it in the pockets and pockets of the eldest young master I taught him. What are you doing here? I heard from my family that there was a problem with the company Brother, you have been busy since you came back. The company hasn't eaten yet I was thinking of bringing you soup. No matter how down I am I don't need you to give Brother, I didn't mean that, brother, I If you really want to Just hide in the distance and silently bless. Don't be an eyesore in front of me Get out of here! He actually He sat foolishly for so long eldest young master Someone's bringing you another cake Got it. Mr. Wei, please sign for your cake. Mr. Wen celebrates his birthday every year Your sister orders you cakes months in advance The cake was ordered three months ago this year Mr. Wen can have such a sensible sister How enviable! My sister has always been like a child. I love this little romance I heard about her. Now it has become a new commercial star in our Binhai Pardon me? Not the first takeaway chain brand coffee Isn't that what she did? I didn't expect it to be so powerful What was her name? Mr. Wen, don't joke with me How can you not know your sister's name? I asked you what her name was. She oh yes Her name is Wen Shuyan He oh yes His name is Wen Shuyan Since it's him Not manman boss Your birthday is coming up soon. Daddy knows you're the favorite skier I've already booked a flight with someone In a few days, our whole family will go abroad. Go skiing together Celebrate your birthday Hahaha thank you dad We are your father Mom hurts you, it's right. Oh, dear. What's wrong with this? I ordered last time The dress should be delivered soon. If we all went on a trip What should I do with my dress? If you ask the maid at home to sign I'm not at ease Uncle Wen You can't ski anyway. You stay at home and help mom with the dress But I also want to celebrate my brother's birthday Why are you so ignorant? A lot of people have already celebrated my birthday Not bad for you. I see you. Obviously want to go abroad So unstable at a young age I'd rather sharpen your temper From now on, we will go skiing abroad every year Will you all stay at home and watch the house? Hello. Hello. What kind of cake do you need? Oh, I want to buy a birthday cake for my brother. He is going abroad for his birthday I'm afraid to wait for him to come back. It's too late for my college to start Please deliver the cake to this address. Why don't you know each other? Many people have already celebrated my birthday Not bad for you. I see you clearly want to go abroad So unstable at a young age I'd rather sharpen your temper From now on, we will go skiing abroad every year You stay at home and watch the house Please send that high to this address every year in the future. I will give you the money in advance. Thanks. Let's have fun. Mr. Wen Yunzhi Yes, it's me. This is the cake your sister ordered for you Manman you Brother, please accept it. You girl is too sensible What did I do? What have I done? The fourth is right We're all responsible for pushing him out of the Wen family Su Dong bought afternoon tea for everyone Just leave it outside Why does this Su Dong come to deliver afternoon tea every day? When did Su Shi start the catering industry? What do you know? The drunkard's intention is not to drink This Mr. Su is not here to bring us afternoon tea This obviously comes from our Mr. Wen Hey, if you don't go out, the afternoon tea will be gone. Go go go go go you Are you free recently? Come and see you Good news by the way What! Now the number of chain brands targeting takeout has flooded Especially the rise of new coffee brands All kinds of promotional means are overwhelmed The capital to forcibly acquire your coffee brand It has gradually been cold used back together It won't be long It will completely set up the takeaway market Indeed it is good news But ah, it's all as I expected Mr. Wen The capital that bought our coffee brand before Came with a lawyer That we are suspected of illegal profit-making Let's lose money How long has this been? I lost all the money from the previous acquisition Go on like this Not only was our investment wiped out Even our corporate reputation will be affected No matter what Make sure he spits up the money Don't worry. I will definitely protect your interests. Mr. Wu Vice President Legal matters of Wen's head office It has been fully entrusted to the Su Group My company's lawyer is already on his way I came here today to watch. Don't express any opinion I'm afraid that's inappropriate The third young master of the Wen family can do it for others Come to my own sister's company to fight a war of words It is also reasonable for me to help my girlfriend President Wen's new R &amp; D project Su's Group invested 1 billion in the early stage As Mr. Wen's largest investor You should be qualified to run and stop Attorney Wen is here today It shouldn't be for a daze, right? Tell me what your purpose is Ok my client Previously, I acquired a coffee brand from Mr. Wen Now crowded out by the takeout market And all this Both have an unshirkable responsibility with Mr. Wen So my client's request is Recover the funds for purchasing the brand I sold the brand to you Only technology is provided Technology and trademarks It's you who want to rely on old users who recognize my brand They cut the leeks. Emerging industries are now emerging Users with better options will naturally give up With a keen commercial sense of smell We believe that Mr. Wen had already expected it The rise of several other coffee brands But without the slightest discrimination against my client So I have the right to assume This is Mr. Wen's commercial design for my client persecution It's so grand Just trying to corrupt me I don't think this capital is anywhere advanced It's not much different from those who can't afford to live on the road and want to touch porcelain Please pay attention to your words Mr. Wen You don't really think we can do anything about you I heard that President Wen is developing new products recently I don't know if we will break our word Word got out about the backtracking. Is there anyone still waiting for Mr. Wen to invest? The investment fee will be paid soon. If Mr. Wen cannot pay this investment fee pull investment With the Su Group's 1 billion It shouldn't last long You threaten me? President Wen knows he is afraid Should agree to our request you Brother Bug also said that he is a rising business star The result is not the same as before It's a frog in the well who has no knowledge It's all done It's all done Mr. Wen's video has been recorded What video? I don't know what will happen to you And things that are not intentional So that it can reproduce Has anyone else invested in the brothers? The investment fee will be paid soon. If Mr. Wen can't bring him down at this investment meeting Just based on the original group's 1 billion It shouldn't last long Your behavior has violated personal privacy You know what? Even the expression is so clear It does seem private However, if you Dare to let the fish die I dare to let the net Why don't you post this video online then? Let netizens comment It's my invasion of privacy Or are you accused of coercion and inducement? you Received received received This is for you. Received the name I can't think of him Wen So Yeon It has reached a height that even I need to look up to Big Brother Big Four You have no idea. What has Wen Shuyan become like now? insidious and cunning He has no regard for brotherhood Humiliating my third brother in front of so many people We used to think He should do things according to our ideas. A little unsatisfactory We will reprimand and disgust But when he came back We are nothing but apathy and reprimand What did we give him back? Why should we be condescending to him? In the attitude of an elder, I feel that I am not a teacher What are you talking about? We are his brothers Isn't it right for my brother to teach him a lesson? brother I didn't fulfill my obligation to be a brother We are so busy every day. How can you coax her every day? But we've always had time to be by Manman's side How come? Is the ward arranged? Didn't I ask them to arrange it in the afternoon? Hurry up. My sister has a high fever now. Yeah, I am. It belongs to the Wen family Happy birthday, Dad! Thank you, big brother. Second brother third brother fourth brother Happy Birthday We really don't seem to care too much about the lead Master Shu is doing well outside now It's right not to want to come back to our home What is he doing back here? Come back and continue to let us cold violence? I really don't know how he got here all these years If I were crazy already But he Wen Shuyan has achieved today's achievements It is also because he relies on the Wen family The reason why he can curry favor with Su Hanshan It is also because he is the eldest lady of the Wen family. Very arrogant now What car market do you want to enter? Su's Group has invested in 10 businesses for him Third, what you said is true Mom and Dad are right Dad, I went to Warm Water today Su Hanshan's intention is also there He admitted it himself But It seems that Wenshuiyuan's car is different from others Hahaha What's the difference? I think his brain is different from others How come you've never been so nice to me? Wen Shuyan, he won't be arrogant for long The automotive industry has long been popular across the country The major car brands have already carved up the market He entered the car market at this time Surely seeking death And we will tomorrow You just need to get the biggest investment. Exactly. Wen Shuyan, she made a fool of herself The entire Wen family is implicated Lose face with him Fortunately, the project in hand is slow And secure investment. This way Only Wen Shuyan made a fool of herself Nana is the investment meeting tomorrow. You must behave well Give us a good punch in that wicked face Let him know what's wrong Mom and Dad I will definitely win the investment for the Wen family tomorrow No, I have to tell Dr. Shu Yan You stop for me What's up? Mom Shu Yan is also your daughter Mom, you and dad Do you really have the heart to look at Shu Yan like this? Will it become the laughing stock of the entire Binhai tomorrow? Mom and Dad, I think the eldest brother and the fourth brother are right I'm going to find my sister now Hey, sister. younger sister Are you all right? I'm fine, third brother, come here I know Dad is very concerned about tomorrow's investment meeting So I've been researching data overnight these days Maybe it's just lack of sleep It doesn't matter. See how filial dad is Look at that Wen Shuyan again The path he chose was his own He was crying. Also let him cry and finish the road Yes, to teach him a lesson Don't mention this matter for the time being Investment meeting tomorrow He Wen Shuyan is willing to hit the south wall Just let him hit enough All right. The Wen family will also participate in tomorrow's investment meeting Last time, those merchants in Binhai The reason why I attended the banquet you set up First, it cannot refute the face of the Su family The second is to warm up for tomorrow's investment This investment meeting There will be many famous professional managers in Binhai And entrepreneurs Once someone's project is seen by them Will receive full support The Wen family will naturally not miss this opportunity I heard that the Wen family has privately found a lot of investors This time, Weinmanman's project is also very optimistic Tomorrow Could be your big competitor It's really time to make a break with the Wen family His chain brand Hasn't it been squeezed out of the market? What else can we do here? I heard he seems to be redeveloping the car Are you kidding? Can anyone in the automotive industry do what they want? However, I am very optimistic about the Wyeth Group Second hand object Sure enough, there is no harm without comparison. Coming back from the direction Just can't compare to the highly educated i I didn't expect you to be in the mood to drink something After leaving Wen's house My appetite has always been good. Sister, please stop getting angry with Dad. Dad actually cares about you very much Wenmanman, have I ever told you The way you pack green tea is really funny I don't know. When are you going to embarrass yourself outside? Do you really think you can break into the car market? It's really not good to open the market But what? I have great confidence in our company's products What confidence do you have? Did you study the car? It can also be different from domestic or even world-class brands. Wen Dong's question involves trade secrets Sorry for the inconvenience However, if you are interested You can listen carefully to my explanation on stage later. Hahaha evil I'd like to see how you cry in a while It may not be me crying Maybe it's you and your baby girl. Welcome all guests This is Didi Daidrink developed by our company. express service Completely get rid of socializing and party like a drinking version Mobile phone one-click order Door-to-door service within 5 minutes I am the company's gold medal drinking agent Next, I will perform a drop drink for everyone It's your turn. Go up. Dad, I will never embarrass Wenjia Oh good Sister, it will be me who wins this time. Hello everyone, today I will explain to you Projects of our Wen Group Our smart home system Yes Did you see it? This is what Miss Wen looks like But You still have a lot of smarts in you As long as you are willing to go back to Wen's house obediently I can consider letting you come to our company. Assistant for Manman Director Wen, you should keep your alms for yourself, right? You? Thank you. I'm sure you've all heard Our company's new project So let me show you. Dare to be on stage Clearly suicidal Dad is Su Dong Oh Su Dong Ha ha. Su Dong I heard that you invested 1 billion yuan in Wen Shuyan's project I see, it doesn't work very well. Why don't Su Dong invest the money in our warm and slow project? Wen Slowly Project Su Dong must have heard of it too He has a lot of room for growth. I don't need temperature to ask about my business Director Su Now a lot of people have taken it very seriously. Are you still stubborn? Wen always felt that he hoped that Shu Yan would fail Hey That's not true. He himself has no business acumen I'm going to lose face here As a father I just hope he can see the reality clearly Know where you went wrong wrong I'm afraid I'll disappoint Mr. Wen What does Su Dong mean by this? Our new energy vehicle It has the characteristics of environmental protection, energy saving and low carbon Once launched into the market Will completely change the current state of development of fuel vehicles Completely replaced by electric motors How is this possible without oil? The surge in oil prices has become a problem for many car owners If someone could replace fuel consumption with electricity consumption For the entire automotive market This is unique Hey Mr. Zhang You said you wanted to invest in Wen's Group. Oh, sorry, Mr. Wang. Well, I'm afraid I'll have to reconsider Hey, hey, this Hey Mr. Wang You said that after the press conference You signed a contract with Wen's I am an investor Naturally, it is necessary to choose better investment projects Hey, hey, hey, this It seems that the Wen Group project Is the one that was finally abandoned Look at Wen Shuyan Take a look at yourself. These useless things Mr. Wen Our company is very interested in your new energy sources Please see when it is convenient to discuss in detail. Mr. Wen, we are also looking forward to cooperating with you. We, Wen Group We should also give strong support to the development of new energy sources I remember that Dong Wen didn't have his own project You are now turning to support my project Your precious daughter will be sad. Haha, you are my daughter too. It is natural for fathers to support their daughters' projects You are more and more mature now It looks more and more like our Wen family What are the Wen family like? Oh. Ruthless vitriol Or heartless? Interest first My project will fly without bothering Wen Dong Don't forget what your last name is. You are from my Wen family You are my daughter Your project Naturally, I have to take it back to my Wen's Group to do it. Wen family you Daughter, I dare ask this great father Over the years You have nothing but endless accusations and reprimands for me Did you say anything else to me? Did you ever care about me? You have been I have never fulfilled the responsibilities of a father You come to me now to play father's prestige What right do you have to mention the word father in front of me? Don't think that if your wings are hard, you can fly solo. Right? Su is the Su family But our Binhai first-class top-class family Without our Wen family to support you behind your back Do you think you can enter the door of the Su family? What is my Su family like? It's not your turn to yell there Mrs. Su Mrs. Su You are I'm Manman I visited you at your house a few years ago You also praised me for being smart and pleasant at that time I remember now. Isn't it Yang Li who separated? Mrs. Su, I Grandma Su presumptuous Why are you talking to Mrs. Su like this? Hey, Mrs. Su My daughter? I'm not afraid of your jokes I lost it since I was a child Raised by a peasant woman in the country Don't know the rules Please forgive me, Mrs. Su. Sister, this is the old lady of the Su family How can you? Fortunately, I know Mrs. Su Sister, apologize quickly. I'll intercede for you and apologize. Don't think you're out-point on the coast You can be lawless You really don't need to apologize Because it was my name Su Yuan who called me that After you left last time? I've been thinking about it When will I call you home for dinner again? But Han Yi keeps saying that you are busy Busy with the opening of new energy sources I know that young people have to get busy with their careers But this meal has to be eaten So I told the third mother Made the dishes you like I'll go back to eat later Grandma, you urge dinner. Why urge To the investment meeting Humph I called my own granddaughter-in-law back for dinner What's up? wife shut up Do you have a problem with my uncle's family affairs? No. Mrs. Wen You especially admire Wen Shuyan Of course my father is happy It's just the marriage between our Su family and the Wen family Shall we make an appointment? Sit down and have a good talk Is that safe? Su Yan has left your Wen family What else does our Su family have to discuss with you? Oops kid Can't take it seriously Actually Our Su family is also curious about Su Yan leaving the Wen family So some time ago I specially made time to go to Su Yan's school It's funny. Shu Yan's junior high school teacher High school teachers and college teachers all say Never seen When you are of no use to the Wen family You don't even learn to look at it. Take a look. Now the child is thriving You're putting on an elder pose. flamboyant child Don't go home, don't talk about finding problems in yourself Instead, they still pick the bones in the eggs on the child Pentium, aren't you ashamed to panic with your old face? Even I blush for you Su Lao Fu actually shut up You are not qualified to speak here. Child I watch Today, the time is almost up. There's no need to waste time with these unworthy people Come on, you two come home with me for dinner Dad? sister He fainted. That's your dad? Not my dad. Dad? This is Starlight Private Club Someone passed out Need an ambulance Our Mr. Wen is not in the company now. I think he is guilty of being a thief Master Wen Shu, come out for me Don't think you're done hiding inside What are you doing? Wen Shuyan is my sister We never heard of Wen having an older brother I see you are here to order relatives. People today are so shameless I want to see our President Wen become famous Come and flatter us Mr. Wen is indeed not in the company now But Mr. Wen told other people surnamed Wen in advance You must never step into the company in the future he He really said that. Hey, I'm afraid that Wen will not be able to practice I don't have time to waste time with you here I warn you If you dare to trespass again We will call the police directly. That is Brother, what's wrong with you? Brother 3, you have a fever. Wait for me. Finally got the fever down. Impossible Impossible It's Wei Shuyan Grandpa Mom and Dad were stimulated sudden hallucinations Need to rest in peace Keep your voice down stimulated Didn't Dad take you to the investment meeting today? What the hell happened? It was my sister who said a lot of bad things to my father It also stole the investment that originally belonged to the Visa Group Pardon me? It's him again Wen Shuyan How dare he talk like that? Go find him now Brother, don't get excited Investors are looking at the development prospects of the project Generalizable space No one can take it away if they want to Maybe Shu Yan's project really surpassed Wen Shijie third child Your dad is like this What else is there to exonerate him? Third brother, go find him now, that evil person Push him over and kowtow to your dad Will not It won't be him. Here, open it and see if you like it. Wow, it's so beautiful. Third brother, is this for me? Well, the third brother had a fever last time Thanks to you for taking care of What's your expression like? Don't say you took care of me My sister and I are both the sisters of the third brother It is right to take care of the third brother You don't have to speak for him The third brother knows what his virtues are, and I know it all too well Third brother Manman has always believed in you What if someone wants to take credit for you? The third brother is the first to refuse So nice Thank you third brother This bracelet belongs to Wen Shuyan Of course it is Mr. Wen I heard that this bracelet was when I was in the countryside The grandmother who took care of her personally made it for her Our Mr. Wen has always been very precious Otherwise, I wouldn't have specially asked me to fix it. So it's Hui Shuyan who takes care of me But what have I done to her? What did he do? You wait for me here. I'll buy you water later. Dad is in the hospital Do you know What does it matter to me whether he stays in the hospital or not? That's our dad How can you talk like that? What do you want me to say? Pretending to be like Winmanman Run to Wen Teng and wipe a few tears Just a few more words that really moved you. Are you sorry? I forgot. You Winners have always liked this kind of rhetoric Hypocrisy Dad was hospitalized because of you You're still talking nonsense here Mom was right You are an unfamiliar wolf I am a white-eyed wolf What about your Wen family? Langbo? Wen's house is your home I don't have a home. Wen Jiayou, let me tell you Stop pretending to be so righteous and great in front of me I became what I am today Not because of your Wen family It's your prejudice and bias Taught what is ruthless, cold-blooded and ruthless You really like it? A doctor gave me a thorough examination The last time you came home for dinner with me Grandma thinks you look bad again Bad appetite So keep staring at me I'll take you to the hospital for a check-up. It's alright Don't move. Check today to give grandma a peace of mind Is it really Mr. Su? I didn't expect Mr. Su himself to be so gentle and considerate He also accompanied Mr. Wen to the hospital Good men like this are rare these days Mr. Wen is not bad either She's a self-made woman. Now let's Bi Haiquan There are too many people who want to be President Wen Su Dong, you have to perform well OK You are not on duty This is also done Su Dong and President Wen came to the hospital just now We couldn't help but take a second look. I heard that Mr. Wen seems to be here for a full body examination I see. Let's go. Director Wen's inspection results will not be wrong. However, we believe that Miss Wen's illness is caused by long-term accumulation I really don't know how Miss Wen's family treats her Miss Wen's family If there is half of Director Wen's patience with his family Then Miss Wen will not fall ill Humph Can't even use a knife and fork Going out in the future can only lose the face of our Wen family Go quickly Don't make dad angry here second brother I haven't eaten yet. Look how angry you are with Dad You still have the face to eat He is not allowed to sit in the back here again It's time to eat Dad, I have to pay tuition and fees tomorrow Can't you see that Dad is not feeling well? The second brother will pay the tuition and fees tomorrow. Someone who can't even use a knife and fork It's a waste of money to pay Since you are in such a hurry to pay tuition and fees Then earn it yourself The worst thing my parents did Just to bring you back You don't really think how good your Wen family is I grew up. That small mountain village is poor But human relationships are real. Unlike your Wen family With that lofty face all day They also divide people into three, six, nine, etc. Don't be in this wicked dog owner Wen Shuyuan, let me tell you Our Wen family has never done anything wrong to you. No, never. Miss Wen, your lab report is out However, the results of the test are not optimistic You have severe malnutrition Causing your anemia and low blood sugar Also, there's something wrong with your heart rhythm It should be that you are under long-term stress. Caused by arrhythmia Pardon me? Ask the director, the inspection results are all here I was wrong. But let's just say It's a coincidence that our Director Wen also has a sister About the same age as Miss Wen Director Wen's sister comes to our hospital every year Conduct a comprehensive medical examination Every time the physical signs are up to standard Our hospital people say that Director Wen takes good care of his sister OK Then why don't you ask Director Wen to talk about it? How do you take care of yourself at home? That's not possible. Absolutely impossible Did your Wen family forgive me? Because since I returned to the Wen family You are not worthy of me Let alone sorry You go out first Shu Yan, I just said it casually at the time I didn't expect you to take it seriously Just say Yes! Just because of your casual remarks I picked up trash in junior high school for three years I worked countless odd jobs in high school and college Just because you are the second young master of the Wen family The Wen family will follow your orders Who? I didn't mean to. I have done everything that hurts What's the use of explaining to me now But I want to thank you Thank you Wen family You taught me to be independent So Don't mention anyone in your Wen family to me again Even if you die It had nothing to do with me. Shuyuan, how can you say that? Even if we did something wrong to you before But after all, we're family. Are you alright, Shuyuan? I thought your Wen family was just acting I didn't expect it. You don't really care about Shu Yun at all That's not true. Your Wen family doesn't care about him Su Qiang cherishes him very much I warn you Stay away from him Second brother Shu Yan did not mean Shu Yan Shuyuan Please allow the fourth brother to say happy belated birthday to you. What did I do? What have I done? I'm right We're all responsible for pushing him out of the Wen family Just say that it is Hui Shuyan who takes care of me But what have I done to him? What did you do for him? Shu Yan also has Brother didn't mean Shu Yan Look at Wen Shuyan Look at you again What a useless thing Afraid you said All people will love me and love me But why? Why is that? Now all of you only have eyes for Wei Shuyan Why is that? Why can't I go anywhere better than him? Dad, you also said Everything in the house belongs to me So I must not let Wen Shuyan Steal everything that belongs to me Dad? Please help me again. Can you help me one last time? Grandpa Grandpa, hahaha. Dad? Why is this happening? Mom and dad left suddenly Dad's indicators have stabilized But I didn't expect Mom It's all my fault Actually, Dad invited me over I'm afraid he's been angry Sister stole the investment of Wyeth Group I've been comforting him And he wouldn't listen. Even at the end he said What did your dad say? Dad said It's all my sister's fault Even if I die, I will not forgive my sister Your dad was right If it weren't for that evil You fuck Your mother wouldn't do that either. Mom Shu Yan is also a member of the Wen family He definitely doesn't want to see Dad Mom, I'm going to find Shu Yan now Bring him back. Ok? Mom and Dad have This family can't be separated anymore Hello mom I'll listen to you one more time As long as Uncle Wen is willing Return to Wen's Group with new energy I still treat her as my daughter Three, four. You come with me to find Shuyan I'll leave the dick to you here Take good care of mom and manman Good to go See Several young masters of Mr. Wen's literary family are here Said it was urgent They like to wait, just let them wait It's Mr. Wen Is Master Shu still in the company? Hey, Wen always wouldn't let me say it But I see you are waiting outside It's been a day. Let me tell you the truth Mr. Wen has already gone to the parking lot through the back door No makeup No makeup no makeup no makeup Say something quickly, I'm busy No makeup dad, he's gone Last Year Madam, it's cremation time soon Why is there no guest? Today is the eldest lady The days when new energy vehicles are launched in major 4S stores The commercial flow of the entire Binhai City They all went to celebrate the eldest lady Mom, what's the matter with you? Mom, are you okay? Wen Shuyan is Wen Shuyan again Who sent this? Oh, I heard it was given by the new Mr. Wen. There are still many rents outside, more than ten floors Our Wen family doesn't need his stuff Give me these wreaths he sent Find a place to burn it all Yes Go find it now Clerk Why don't you peel off a layer of his skin today? My last name is not Pan Mom and Dad Okay. As expected of Binhai's No. 1 business woman It's the buckle surface. Hai Ge Nice. More mature. Let brother hug Hahaha Hey I heard you've been very close to this kid recently. It's okay, don't be afraid. Everything has a brother As long as he dares to bully me My brother will clean you up for you. OK Oh, I see. I'll remember to set off firecrackers for him. Shu Yuan's father has already How can you be so calm? Third brother Shu Ye See that bracelet? Third brother knows It was you who stayed up late to accompany and take care of the third brother It's all the third brother's fault It's the third brother's fault Shu Yan, the cake you ordered for big brother Big brother received it. It tastes really good. Wait. Next year No. Every year thereafter Big brother is celebrating his birthday with you Big brother takes you abroad Big brother personally teaches you to ski Okay, Shu Yan is the fourth brother, wrong? Fourth brother used to like to play pranks with you I promise never again So-yeon, come home with us Shuyan's mother said As long as you bring the new energy back to the greenhouse He forgives everything that happened before Let me take the new energy back to the greenhouse He lets go. You go back and tell him to dream Shu Yan Do you really want to be so heartless? I'm heartless I'm just repeating What you've done to me And this is just the beginning. You can't take it anymore What about me? I'm at your Wen house. I have been ignored and bullied by you for more than ten years What are you doing get out of the way I'm Wen Shuyan's mother If you are Mr. Wen's mother There must be an invitation letter. No invitation No one can get in Blow me away Hey what are you doing Go go go go go Big brother second brother third brother Do you find this scene familiar? Ah! Ah! Wow, wow, wow. Uh-huh. Ah! He was always looking up at us Looking forward to our memories Now, when we put ourselves in his shoes Just found out It turns out that this kind of unresponsive looking up and waiting It hurts so much It hurts so much. In just 5 months New energy vehicles have been promoted nationwide Many car owners are willing to try this innovative reform Wen Shuyan, founder of new energy vehicles Successfully ranked on the Forbes Rich List According to the latest news from this station Chairperson and Executive CEO of Su Group Successful founder of new energy Ms. Wen Shuyan Proposal successful In order to show the importance of the Su family to Ms. Wen Shuyan And the sincerity of this engagement I specially chose a 5.18-carat diamond ring. And this number It just so happens to be Ms. Wen Shuyan's birthday I know your Wen family is hiding in there Come out quickly Pay it back. Pay it back Pay it back. Pay it back Come out and pay the money Pay it back. Pay it back Pay it back. Pay it back. Because of the death of the lord Our Wen Group is riddled with holes What should I do if this goes on? And now the board is all over the place. Little hegemony but mom Don't worry, even if there is no Wen's in the future We will also take care of you. I heard that my sister is doing well now. If my sister can return to Wen's house Will Dad's Wen family be able to keep it? Manman, don't talk nonsense. The new energy was developed by Shu Yan himself It has nothing to do with our Wen family Are we just watching those people Take away the Wen Group founded by Dad? Brother, that's the last thing Dad left us Manman was right There's only one way to save the greenhouse now Mom, now Shu Yan treats us like strangers Why would he willingly return to the greenhouse? He doesn't want to come back. We'll grab his new energy Manman, you call the reporters I want to hold a press conference Mom, what's the difference between you and Mingqiang? Mom, that's all Shu Yan's hard work. He is from my Wen family Without the Wen family, there would be no him But what about him? I made it big. How did you treat us? Even your father's death He didn't care. He is heartless Don't blame us for injustice I'm going to let everyone know soon Tawen Shuyan What an ungrateful white-eyed wolf As long as the wind of public opinion is in our favor New energy is our home Hey I'm really not talking about you Your dad is really biased If I Were You Let alone come to see him I peed on his grave It's already done. I will never forgive the Wen family But when you're dead, you're dead. He gave me life after all Otherwise, wouldn't it be the same as the other Wen family members? heartless Brother likes you for that Dare to Love and Hate Hahaha OK, I see. The Wen family summoned all the reporters Things are better now than before The original development of new energy It was decided by my father and sister together Dad was also very optimistic about this project when he died He also said that he would strongly support his sister But I don't know why. My sister suddenly decided to leave the Wen family But these new energy projects stand on their own two feet. Originally, this is our family scandal We don't want to promote it either. But Wen Shuyan is too cold-blooded and ruthless. The death of her biological father She is indifferent Yes, the Wen Group founded by her father She turned a deaf ear Today we are the internal board of directors of Wen's Group Facing re-selection We can't help it either. I just hope Wen Shuyan can look at the past love Save Wen's Group Ms. Pan can explain in detail Why is Chairperson Wen of the constant temperature enterprise so indifferent to the Wen family? Even to the point of hate apathy Wen Shuyan did not grow up in the Wen family She got lost when she was 3 Adopted by a peasant woman in the countryside We finally went through a lot of hardships later Just got him back But I didn't expect him to be distracted from us long ago It's all my fault It's all my fault The years my sister lost Parents miss their sister too much I'm in a trance. Later, my parents were looking for a spiritual sustenance Adopted me at the orphanage But my sister has been blaming me since she came back Took her place It's also my fault for stealing my parents' favor from her If that's the case Wen Shuyan is too ignorant I didn't expect Wen Shuyan to have a successful career Such a cold-blooded and ruthless person That's really disappointing. I once heard a definite news Director Wen of Constant Temperature Group The past few years in the Wen family have not been satisfactory They were bullied and abused. Ask if so How could the Wen family let Ms. Wen Shuyan Access to new energy developed at the core You two please. Answer the question I just asked truthfully and objectively That's not true. My sister is very valued at home If Ms. Wen Shuyan is really taken seriously in the Wen family Why did you choose to give up the shortcut of the Wen family in the first place? But away from the Wen family self-reliance rags to riches I don't think anyone would want to go too far. Where did the reporter come from? It's blatant nonsense here Believe it or not, I'll sue you for slander? I am a fan of Ms. Wen Shuyan It is also a witness to her walking all the way to the present I have the right to appeal the truth for my idol Shuyan welcome Wen Shuyan Shu Yan Shu Yan Shu Yan I really didn't say You're such a failure as a mother, aren't you? He ran outside and publicly wronged his own daughter Instead, treat that adopted daughter as a second treasure If you are sick, see it earlier Don't embarrass yourself here Wei Shuyan You let an outsider say that about your mother I don't have a mother like you Your mother sister Stop being angry with mom I know you don't want to bring new energy back to Wen's house But we are family after all You don't want dad's years of hard work either Let it all go family You were given sex. What are you talking to me about family? Don't think you were adopted by the Wen family You are the Wen family I tell you, wild It's a wild species How do you pretend What flows in your body is not the sex of the Wen family Still pretending to be a little white rabbit Okay, let's talk calmly Since you said The new energy project was developed by me and the Wen family together Then you, as the R &amp; D manager of the Wen family It should be clear How much is the upfront investment cost of a new energy project? How much is the later maintenance cost? And what is the core i Why can't you say it? Or do you just not know? What are you doing? Get them out of here now Yes What are you going out for? It's been a while The Wen family is bullying again What do you mean? You want to threaten me? I heard that Mrs. Wen held a press conference Of course I'm here to cheer If Mrs. Wen thinks those people just now are not enough I can still call someone Uneducated thing elder sister It's good that you're here. Apologize to mom quickly Mom will forgive you. Apologize, why should I apologize? And you pretend to be weak and innocent all day I'm tired of watching it. Why don't you just be yourself? Don't make me feel new No fairy You misunderstood me. Did you all see it? It's not our Wen family that's sorry for him It's him who has been running amok in front of us Second Miss Wen, please Answer Ms. Wen Shuyan's question truthfully The second lady of the Wen family has been closed and did not answer Do you really not know anything? Is this provable? Second Miss Wen I want to seize Ms. Wen Shuyan's research results No, it's not. Get out of my way They just want to know the objective facts, right? What are objective facts? The objective fact is that you are an unfilial daughter I was so angry with my own father. And the death of his own father seemed like dusk Mom is a wife Mom, we are wrong to blame Shuyan. How could I possibly blame her mother? I asked my colleagues at the hospital. Dad passed out at the investment meeting, and it was Shuyan who called that day No. That's not possible. Mom In fact, on the day of Dad's funeral Shu Yan sent a wreath to mourn you Mom Shu Yan is not cold-blooded and ruthless It's that we haven't been close to and understood her How is that possible? Kiki, I knew you had us in your heart As long as you are willing to bring new energy back to Wen's house Our Wen family will definitely get better. Does it hurt? Mom, it's okay. As long as my sister is willing to go home and reunite with us I am willing to suffer any hardship you Don't act so mother-daughter in front of me And it's not been a day or two since you were biased I can tell you right now. Want me to bring the new energy back to Wen's house Absolutely impossible No makeup? Don't do this What else are you talking to this wretch? Yes, I am biased. I just love Manman Because in my heart Manman is the real Miss Wen You don't really think You adopted daughter who has been in pain since childhood I mean it to you Want to sow discord here You don't deserve it. I sow discord I just want you to see clearly How did your precious daughter treat you? And your husband's Where did I poison him? Dad? You also said that everything in the temple belongs to me I must not let the clerk take everything from me How could this be? You shouldn't look at me so surprised now You should look at him And ask him why he did it He is not the most precious woman for you and your husband Isn't that so? Qianqian framed me Qianqian has been jealous of me It's you who framed me Exactly. My Manman has always been good Why did you frame her? Why would you do that? You are really good Can play the whole Wen family around But do you really think I I planted a seed in my hand The Wen family can't take it anymore All available funds must be withdrawn as soon as possible All transferred to foreign accounts I know this is hard. Just let you do it Don't worry, I will give you 3% compensation when it is done. Others of the Wen family Their lives are none of my business I was adopted Can coax them for so many years It's considered repayment for their upbringing and care Go home in your twenties Why so many? Go home twenty times Home Twenty Go home in your twenties Why so many? Go home in your twenties Because the Su family has business dealings with the Wen Group So when something went wrong with Wen's accounts I sent someone as soon as possible Checked the capital flow of Wen's Group If Mrs. Wen needs it I can send someone to give you other evidence together. You told me it wasn't true. I I I speak I remember you were always good at talking Why are you so silent? Speak, your mother asks you something Talk to your mother to ask you something to talk to Yeah. Say Say what? Exactly. That's what I did. Are you satisfied? Pardon me? Your dad and I were so nice to you Why are you Be nice to me. What we want Just create a The perfect daughter of your fantasies Also your biological daughter You can ignore him. indifferent I am an adopted daughter One day we will be useful Will you still look at me? You unfamiliar thing It is to frame Wei Shuyan again and again in front of you Just squeeze her out I think What about you? Don't you feel pain? Just a bunch of selfish and cold-blooded people I really care. Say it again. I might change You can stop that. You shut up you shut up You shut up Shut up shut up Okay, okay. Separate people Send back what people should send What he did is naturally borne by the law brother We don't have a sister like you. Our sister's name is Wen Shuyan From now on, our Wen family has nothing to do with you anymore Brother and mother should have something to say to Shuyan I'll chase after her So-yeon But I'm your sister! Let me go! I presume the truth of the matter is already clear to everyone I never thought it would be because of my own personal affairs Take up everyone's time To make up for you All the reporters and staff present today As long as you buy my car brand in the future You can get 20% off with today's admission pass OK Ok, it's been so long I'm hungry hahaha Shuyan Shuyan Shuyan Shuyan Shuyan Shuyan Shuyan's mother was wrong Mom really knew it was wrong Mom will never hit you again If you don't punish you, please forgive your mother, okay? There is no road to sincerity Because sincerity itself is the way Put away your apology I don't need it. And Please don't appear in front of me again Shu Yan Shu Yan You can't do this to me. I'm your mother. I don't need my mother anymore Uncle uncle uncle Ah sir kneel down Remember? Shuyan Shuyan Shuyan All misunderstandings have been cleared up Come home with us! Shuyan 14 brother is wrong So-yeon will always be our sister Suyeon, shall we start over? The me you see now Is to learn to resist People who know how to live for themselves And the one who has been living by your indifference Excluded me He died without a shred of your kindness I'm sorry. Now that it has been done There's no point in apologizing From now on Whether it's you or the Wen family I had nothing to do with it. Su Yan In the past, Su Yan treated you well You don't appreciate it. Don't disturb his life now And I should thank you very much. Gave me such a good sister Sister Su Yan Beibei Shuyan Shuyan Beibei Shuyan Shuyan Beibei Shuyan brother I want to eat hot pot in the evening