(dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the fiery beginning of our young solar system, world's are born. And obliterated. (dramatic music) Gas giants stir chaos and a young Sun vents its rage. (dramatic music) How did Earth survive against all odds? (dramatic music) Gazing down from space we marvel at Earth's bountiful oceans, its continents, and We ask how did our planet begin? How did it come support life? And life to support Earth? (intense music) The story of Earth starts within a giant spiral galaxy, the Milky Way. At 100,000 light years across of swirling dust clouds and glowing gas. (intense music) This simulated view shows a cosmological blink of an eye. (intense music) In that time millions of stars die in powerful explosions called supernovae, shown here as flashes of light. (intense music) They seed the cosmos with Carbon, silicon, iron and more. (intense music) One explosion has packed a nearby cloud of stardust into collapse. (intense music) Huge volumes of dust and (intense music) This cloud is about as But the tighter it's packed (intense music) A storm erupts at its center, a vast raging hurricane of (intense music) In its eye temperatures soar, a star ignites and our Sun is born. (intense music) The Sun is being fed by The cradle of our solar system. Within the disk planets take shape in a long violent process. It starts with dust gathering (intense music) They form pebble sized objects within clouds of loose gravel. (intense music) Over millions of years gravity draws them together to form rocks, (intense music) These objects coalesce or planetesimals. One such body, the primordial Earth, is growing steadily, but it's (intense music) We once thought that planet formation followed a predictable pattern. Our planetary neighbors bear this out with their nearly circular orbits. And the neat division between Jupiter. Saturn. Uranus. And Neptune. And rocky inner planets. Mercury. Venus. Earth. And Mars. This division originates The young Sun produces lighter hydrogen gas to Beyond a point called the grow quickly by sweeping up The dusty inner region, is where rocky worlds like Earth form. This is not necessarily how (intense music) A new generation planet finding telescopes has found that gas planets commonly patrol the inner zones. (intense music) Jupiter sized giants so close to the star are stripping them of gas. (intense music) Then there's a class of large rocky planets called Super Earths. How did those planets get there? Why did our own inner Much of what we know solar system comes from changed since they formed Most are so small that they simply burn up in our atmosphere. (intense music) A few larger ones survive the fall. Scientists have been able to by measuring molecular in particular metals. They appear to come from two that formed in the inner Something must have driven two regions, preventing (intense music) If this great divider it had to have grown quickly. It would have cut off the flow of matter into the inner solar system, of large rocky planets, or Super Earths. Jupiter would then play of the most impactful chapters in the history of our solar system. (intense music) Scientists have used Jupiter's rise by of dust, gas, ice and boulders Each flash marks a collision. Each ring tracks the orbit (intense music) Giant Jupiter forms on the periphery, its orbit shown in blue. (intense music) As it grows Jupiter succumbs to the gravitational pull of It begins to spiral toward the Sun. (intense music) Scientists call Jupiter's named for the term a (intense music) Along the way Jupiter plows (intense music) What it doesn't swallow it (intense music) The closer Jupiter draws toward the Sun the more cosmic (intense music) The simulation tracks Jupiter all the way into the orbit (intense music) Jupiter's grand tack has further reduced the mass of Now any planet's that form (intense music) In time another giant planet, Saturn, grows large enough to (intense music) Earth, at that time, would have been an embryo of the planet it (intense music) With Jupiter's departure, Earth and a few dozen hungry competitors are free to scour the inner (intense music) Which ones will survive depends on the luck of the cosmic draw. (intense music) Over the 50 million years inner solar system the roller (intense music) As the remaining planets their orbits destabilize. Collisions between them are inevitable. (intense music) What's left is a handful including the planets we know today, and at least one other. (intense music) Its existence was deduced in celebrated milestones in the (dramatic music) On July the 16th, 1969 (dramatic music) In 13 launches the US the mighty Saturn 5 rocket, never failed to safely (dramatic music) Six times in the four Apollo space craft drifted down (soft music) 12 astronauts climbed out to experience the Moon up close. They set up experiments. Made measurements. And collected rocks as they walked, or drove across the alien terrain. (intense music) The world cheered as the Their exploits symbolized A bright ray of hope in a troubled time. They were the first, and so far the last, humans to travel beyond (soft music) Few suspected at the time back to Earth would spur a about the Moon and Earth. Back in NASA labs scientists have much in common with those from Earth. In particular they share as blood types for solar system bodies. (soft music) The two bodies share a That history is written The Moon is pocked with large old craters, surrounded by concentric rings. You can see them in this captured recently by NASA's The rings suggest that a giant impacter came down on a roiling, sending ripples outward. (soft music) The astronauts encountered strewn about the landing sites, probably forced to the as it sunk down into the magma. They also picked up rocks for the constituents potassium, rare Earth elements and phosphorus. These rocks of a type called Anorthosite are a product of a molten surface. What had turned the Moon And what is the connection to Earth? The most widely accepted to a time four and a (intense music) At this time Earth may harbor with a thin toxic atmosphere. (intense music) Our planet has sofar withstood the on slot of planet formation. It now awaits the test of its life. (intense music) Another planet, about half This is Theia, a world Instead its journey ends here (intense music) Imagine the view from threat looms large on the horizon. (intense music) Theia rocks Earth to the core. (intense music) The impact sheers away but instead of destroying A computer simulation Debris unleashed by the in a dense atmosphere of vaporized rock. The cloud coalesces into a (intense music) Much of the orbiting debris but within a century a single wondrous body, (thoughtful music) After the impact our planet on a slightly tilted axis. (thoughtful music) The Moon orbits much closer for its surface our world (thoughtful music) As the Moon gradually slips its exerts a drag on Earth, and steadies its tilt. (thoughtful music) The Moon serves as a that almost spelled the end of our planet. (thoughtful music) But from here on it would a source of stability, and ultimately, beauty. (thoughtful music) But the violence was by no means over. Unlike Earth, where erosion have erased all traces the Moon holds a record of The myriad craters that tell of time up to 4 billion years ago, when Jupiter and Saturn hurled a barrage of objects toward the inner solar system. A recent study draws on lunar craters to model the At least four impacts would to remake the surface of our planet and to radically alter (intense music) Smashing into a crust rich and potassium, they tore these elements from the planet and sent them into space. (intense music) This process, called impact erosion, left a crust that would cool more quickly when the impacts finally died down. Less disruptive impacts in massive amounts of water, or released water bound to (thoughtful music) Half a billion years after Earth has become a world of water. It seas span every horizon, (waves rumble) The Moon, still in close orbit, whips up tides that lash (thoughtful music) Earth's atmosphere is a mix of hydrogen, nitrogen and carbon dioxide, Land and sea are rich with chemicals, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, iron and more, that came with the damn (thoughtful music) The Earth has what it needs to to nurture life. But there's a problem. (thoughtful music) Its water is slowly disappearing. (intense music) The young Sun, while is prone to powerful flares. (intense music) They strike the Earth's upper atmosphere. When a solar particle hits it can blast it apart. Lightweight hydrogen wafts into space, while heavier oxygen sinks to the surface and binds with rocks. (thoughtful music) We now know what a devastating Spacecraft observations harbored ample stores of water. (thoughtful music) Its surface is etched of ancient rivers and lined with sediments laid down on Mars today is a lifeless carbon dioxide atmosphere, there (thoughtful music) Using special sensors orbiting the ongoing loss of water stripped by solar radiation. (thoughtful music) Scientists have observed on Earth's sister planet, Venus. (intense music) The result, Venus's atmosphere of noxious chemicals, including (intense music) Down at the surface Venus's with high concentrations a potent greenhouse gas (intense music) CO2 has turned Venus into a cauldron. With surface temperatures of Venus is the hottest (intense music) This hostile environment is that dot its surface, spewing (intense music) How did Earth avoid such a grim fate? For one, our planet that both Venus and Mars lack. (intense music) It's a magnetic field powerful waves of radiation Generated by the exchange and its crust, this magnetic rapid surface cooling early It's just our first line of defense. (volcano rumbles) Another line of defense began surface of our planet as Life. (soft music) Long standing theories see life's crucible in the stirrings of Heat and chemical reactions produced proteins and nucleic (soft music) More recent ideas point to features that dotted the (soft music) No one knows exactly how or where life gained its first foothold. (soft music) What we know is that it did emerge and that it spread thanks the ability to turn sunlight into energy. (soft music) Photosynthesis, the process made its first appearance in simple bacteria over 3 billion years ago. (soft music) Using one of the world's scientists have sought to (soft music) Step one is to capture sunlight. Passing through a transparent of the bacteria we encounter Each one is equipped with special sensors designed to harvest solar energy. When a photon hits it excites rings of chlorophyll molecules. (soft music) This energy is transferred the machines of life. (soft music) Down the line electrons and protons carry the energy through a chain (soft music) The energy driving these The cell must now convert it into action. It's the energy stored in (soft music) Streaming into watery they flow toward a towering As they enter their electrical charges turn a protein like a crank. This turning motion initiates one that is essential Two molecules join to shown in in blue. It is the universal energy currency in every cell that has ever lived. Like a biological battery from the Sun, repackaged the cell can now use to break down food, to power locomotion, to (soft music) ATP made it possible for microorganisms to flourish and evolve. (soft music) As bacteria gave rise to plants, a more advanced form of Oxygen. (soft music) This new supply of free amount absorbed by the In the atmosphere it bound with hydrogen, preventing its escape into space while forming a new molecule of water. (soft music) This process would gradually stem the loss of Earth's oceans, A recent study concluded lost up to 25% of its (soft music) Across the surface of our in tandem with life, the Sun and geology to power a remarkable planetary engine. The climate. (soft music) The climate is driven in part by the unevenness of solar heating due to the cycles of day and night, and the seasons. (soft music) These factors moderate sending warm tropical and cold polar air toward the equator. (soft music) Tides and currents mix cold water from the deep with the warm surface. Solar energy is trapped in along with carbon dioxide, the greenhouse gas that ruined Venus. What keeps CO2 in check is the special ingredient that (soft music) The oceans are chalk full of it. (soft music) Microscopic phytoplankton take in CO2 driven into the ocean by waves or drawn up from the deep by currents. (soft music) They send the carbon atoms on Phytoplankton get eaten by zooplankton, like these Radiolarians, to a time over 500 million years ago, when life exploded across Earth's oceans. Moving up in scale Copepods and the single largest Octopus larvae are part of smaller than the tip of your finger. (soft music) They get eaten by small fish and they in turn by larger creatures. (soft music) At each step in the food chain the carbon that began as part of air is passed onto larger The larger the body, the (soft music) From whales down to tiny phytoplankton, marine life is part of a from the atmosphere then (intense music) The key to this carbon cycle is Earth's ability to store it long term. (intense music) A NASA satellite is tuned a chemical tracer for plant growth. In sync with the seasons carbon dioxide while releasing On land carbon finds when plants and animals die and decay. The Earth too gets into the act. (intense music) Exposed rocks take in CO2 when it rains, erosion sends it into the oceans. (intense music) If it becomes part of carbon rich matter can sink all the way to the sea bottom (intense music) In time carbon rich or to rock, like limestone. Carbon can return to become exposed or if the (intense music) Every year over 100 million are spewed into the oceans (soft music) Acting on time scales of the carbon cycle has helped Its success depends on life itself. (soft music) Earth today, endowed with With light and warmth. With life that's bountiful and in balance. (soft music) As we study the intricacies we marvel at what it (intense music) The aftershocks of supernova. (intense music) The violence of Jupiter. (intense music) A chance collision. (intense music) And the gift of a moon. (intense music) Of water and life. (intense music) The more we're able to the more singular it seems. That is until we realize how many other solar systems are out there. (intense music) We ask, is Earth just one of countless habitable worlds in a Or is it a wondrous twist of fate? A remarkable convergence of Our planet became a paradise, but is it the only one? (intense music)