Before we get started, I just wanted to let Eclipse merch for sale at the merch store. In 1974 we sent the Arecibo radio beamed a message 13, a globular cluster near the edge of the Milky arrive, so no surprise we haven't heard back yet. surely we expect many of them to have a head into the void louder and longer than we have. make contact? What if the silence from the stars if aliens are deliberately keeping quiet For over 60 years we have been listening for or seen, anything or anyone. This is dubbed over five thousand exoplanet discoveries confirmed has to be life out there. The mismatch between apparent absence of any other technological course we've discussed once or twice in the past. terrifying solutions to the Fermi Paradox - the our galaxy, but they're all silent - because those This is the dark forest hypothesis, and of the same name, the sequel to the Three although the idea has been proposed by others. But the imagery of the universe as a dark Imagine you are a lone hunter stalking through so you have no idea what's hiding over the there may be other hunters but you're not could destroy other hunters in an instant ... but assume that they have the same capability, So what do you do? Do you call out and keep very still and quiet and hope no ready to destroy any other hunter you find out of The dark forest solution to the Fermi Paradox will choose silence--whether a trigger-happy silence. And those that It's certainly a great creepy premise for a scifi it's based on some reasonably concrete game Let's look at the scenario again without the developed advanced civilisations. Let's call them Both A and B are capable of sending messages destroy another planet relatively easily and We can model their interactions in game theory "players" choose their actions in sequence. the other's last action, leading to a tree of each branch. Each civilization should choose its example, if the civilizations make friends that strength in numbers and maybe share technology. If a relatively neutral payoff for the destroyer, but How negative? Well nothing could be worse, so So let's look at one possible scenario. but A doesn't know about B. Maybe out signals hoping for a response. Or are just really loud--the equivalent So when B notices A, what options do they have? Let's say they ignore. A will remain and B will continue its antisocial ways. A and B. Slightly boring, but What if B takes the second option and to destroying a planet in resources--but pretty small. And there might also be a good loot. Maybe there's a cost in guilt at but the point is that if there's a cost At worst, B experiences a finite negative while A experiences infinite negative payoff. Finally, if B chooses to reply to A's message, gives additional knowledge to A that they same three choices that B had--including So of all the options--ignore, destroy, infinite negative payoff for B. If you just sum it's clear that B should never reply--assuming In fact, if we extend the tree a little in the "ignore" branch there's which A discovers the existence of B That means both ignore and reply have the logic a civilization should always choose to if we assume that civilizations that can detect they know the game-theoretic dominant if they place very heavy weight on the guilt very very quiet. Hence the Great Silence This is a pretty dark conclusion, so let's in the hope that the universe isn't as First up, let's look at some of the assumptions. other relatively easily. That's actually a have concentrated population centers--say, of telling you how to destroy planets--Perhaps vehicle. An advanced civilization worth a percent of its home star's energy towards fraction of the speed of light. Send those bodies ionize their atmosphere and vaporize their oceans. protect itself. The vehicle is traveling at a good have little warning before the weapon arrives, It doesn't even matter if the Bobarians don't Technological progress can be exponential, timescale of the light travel time between two years apart. In 100 years, Moores law yields a Other technologies have also been shown albeit with different doubling times. Even if whatever technological state you perceive technological state they'll be in when they The vast distances between the stars hypothesis. It ensures that both sides have and in general it's what allows us to approximate interact with each other in real time--they or react to perceived hostility. knowing that if the other side chooses hostility Those vast distances also mean you're not safe receiver of the message know that you're truthful, So the physics behind the hypothesis seems to example there's some psychology. We assume that cost or negative payoff to the extinction us" philosophy seems mostly universal among mud via Darwinian processes then they should all But it's also possible that we're projecting our We don't know what value systems advanced aliens transition that essentially all civilizations go all sentience of something. Perhaps the ones that case they may not value their own existence as There's also another aspect to the cost that's curiosity. Humans did not spread great civilizations or discover the laws of in our personal survival. Yes we sought the but we were also curious. And that curiosity It's that interplay--that balance between to peer over the next horizon, or round the metaphorical forest to reach the metaphorical ... Anyone we meet out there will in different measures. Some will want and minds are like. And maybe that This is wild speculation. The point is, calculation will be the same for everyone. So, how well are we playing the game? So and there. The Arecibo message will reach 27,000 years. We've sent a motley array of the next few decades to few centuries (some advanced civilization actively looking for have reached their destinations and there's been from Altair was due in 2015. Most likely there and we haven't been shouting too loudly. We're breaking a twig or two. We haven't really started So should we try to contact aliens? Well maybe there's one last assumption in the Dark that any civilization gets to make perfect logic of game theory. "We" don't and collective action emerges in very or at least smallish groups, could start projects timescale. And maybe we will. And maybe when we we'd respected the Great Silence. Or maybe the both civilizations will win the day. Perhaps by side and stronger for it, in hope of finding Hey Everyone. The next total solar eclipse 8th. In celebration of this celestial space time merch. For those of you we have high-quality, durable plastic solar are AAS certified and come with premium filters including UV and IR rays. But as We also have a specialty UV glow print Solar our gfx team for the eclipse, both the so after being out in the The glasses, t-shirt &amp; sweatshirt are all stock we'll be completely out! And if and shirt before the eclipse you have put pbsspacetime.com/shop or click the link in