On the 26th of May opened in the township of Vernon, New For the next 20 years this unassuming town would be the home to Action Park, soon become notorious Before the sale of the park to new six guests would have died while riding insanely unsafe attractions, and many would have sustained serious injuries. Action Park was the brainchild of Eugene owner of Great American Recreation. but Mulvihill wanted to expand the revenue he added an alpine slide down one of the as well as two water slides and a Action Park was born... although traded under the less exciting name The adoption of the name Action Park and took place over the next two or three The park hit its peak in the early- and At this time over a million people per were flocking in to ride around 75 At the time the park had not yet unsafe, but injuries were frequent. be installed, came to injuring guests. consisted of a channel made from down which tiny wheeled carts would be The carts were operated by the riders, to apply the brakes when approaching getting too close to other carts. These brakes, however, didn't always work guests. Riders, most of whom were only wearing suffered severe abrasions all over their and many were concussed or broke limbs. was responsible for 14 fractures Another infamous ride was the Super Again, guests were in control of their single-seater buggies around a concrete The go-karts came with a speed limiter, wedging a tennis ball in the right spot - do for guests that requested it... With the limiter disabled the carts hour when they happened, frequently resulted Worse yet, even riders who escaped injury from the poorly-maintained engines of The park's water rides were also The Cannonball Loop, for example, resulted injuries that it was actually shut down The ride consisted of an enclosed water park, was a vertical loop that loops are not commonly seen on they are incredibly dangerous. to complete the full loop and then fall wall injuries The main danger to patrons enjoying the on the other hand, wasn't blunt trauma drowning. This attraction, common at other consisted of a large pool and a machine sizable waves. This type of attraction is mildly dangerous, but at Action Park had to rescue as many as This frightening statistic was down to The waves were extremely large and towards the deep end of the pool. suddenly found themselves out of their Added to this was the fact that Action Park into the pool. When the waves began a scramble to exit the pool over one another Those are just some of Action Park's Others included the Tarzan Swing - a required to let go of into concrete That splash pool, by the way, was so cold and had to be rescued. There were also diving cliffs with no from passing by barriers on either side and a deadly should you skip those barriers, and a which inebriated patrons would often bumper boats experience, with predictably As an aside, it's no surprise that many They were built, for the most part, by engineering knowledge or experience, and by trial and error. Employees were incentives to be the first to try out and once a few employees had survived an it was usually declared safe and opened In this climate of almost negligible injuries were inevitable. count with a simple philosophy: Many attractions required riders to steer vehicles, keep themselves afloat, or whether to jump, dive, or injured in the course of riding an the park would inevitably claim that the for failing to follow the rules, riding or overestimating their ability to swim This laissez faire attitude ultimately had deadly Over the course of 10 years three guests earning it the macabre nickname of &quot;The Another guest suffered a cardiac arrest after plunging into the cold water and a 19-year-old slipped into a coma after being thrown from the Alpine Slide Death number six occurred on a ride in 1982. This ride consisted of an imitation which guests would ride in single-seater These kayaks would often get stuck or requiring guests to climb out and stand A27-year-old man was doing just this due to exposed wiring, He went into cardiac arrest and later You might wonder why a park like this In today's regulatory climate Action thankfully, be shut down within a season. were ride safety was Although the park had a reputation as most visitors probably never knew the Many lawsuits were brought against the Nonetheless, the mounting cost of was what ultimately began the park's This, combined with a recession in the Action Park severely short on funds. 1995 season desperate cost-cutting bid just wasn't In 1996 Great American Recreation, into bankruptcy. the 1996 season, That was the end of Action Park. resort developer did reopen the park, but the dangerous attractions removed It's now known as Mountain Creek Water and has operated without major incident The strangest thing about Action Park is dangerous rides, multiple fatalities, and it is still remembered by many who Journalist Chris Gethard summed up the in an article for Weird NJ: &quot;Action Park was a true rite of passage &quot;of my generation. When i get to talking &quot;we share stories as if we are veterans &quot;I suspect that many of us may have come &quot;on some of those rides up in Vernon &quot;I consider it a true shame that future &quot;of proving their grit at New Jersey's &quot;dangerous amusement park.&quot; an urban legend. Yes, it was the cause of but as bizarre as it might seem at Action Park.