Where am I? Ah... do I have a crown? Am I a princess? I've always wanted be a princess Is this real life? I thought I had school this morning! *Playful music* *Silence* *Humming* *Gasp* *Gasp* Oh my god! Is that real? *Silence* [DOG BARKS] I think my alarm just went off and I'm late for school! But... I'm a princess I should have a prince! I see frogs! He's the one! I want him to be like... Smart... And um... M-M-Maybe some purple hair Would be cool? *Kissing noise* *Loud sparkle* *Still kissing* *Alarm* Intro music plays Hey guys! It's Wengie! Welcome back to my channel! And if you are new around here, Welcome! I always like to give you guys a hug! Here it is! Here it is! Nice and tight! So today's video is so relate-able to me! I'm just not a morning person, For just, some reason, I'm just like so sluggish! So today I'm doing 10 morning routine hacks! When you're late for school! Or for work, or whatever you're late for! 'Cus these are sure to help you! Hold up if you guys aren't part of the family yet! I really encourage you guys to join! I love every sing family member I have! You guys are the best! It's so easy! Just click the subscribe button here Or if you are on a mobile device, it is down below! Today is actually a really exciting day for our family members, Because the Mac Book Air and 2 million subscriber prizes are being announced today! The winners are... *Drum roll* Expect a message from me! The last Mac Book I gave away, Has gotten to the winner, and she sent me this really cute unboxing video! It melts my heart! Let's try to get this video to 90,000 thumbs up! And if it happens by next week, Then you will see another Mac book Air giveaway! Let's do it! So without further a do, Let's jump straight onto the video, Let's go! Hey guys! So... We have 15 minutes to get ready this morning! Let's hope that these hacks will get me there, Let's go *Roses by Chainsmokers* When I wake up late I always feel, So lethargic! So a great way to start the day, Feel more awake, and detox your body, Is with lemon infused water! And if you are short on time, instead of cutting a lemon, And doing all that, a great hack is to keep a lemon squeeze-y bottle, Or keep a bottle of squeezed lemon juice in the fridge, handy. *Nerve wrecking music* *Roses by Chainsmokers* Okay! So I love this mood hack, all you need to do is find a motivational quote! Create a vision board or even find a question to ask yourself to promote an attitude of gratitude! Place this in a frame or laminate it and place it on your mirror, In the bathroom so, That you can remind yourself about the amazing positive things when you brush your teeth! This is so important when you are late! Because feeling rushed always makes me stressed out and panicked! And you got to brush your teeth anyways, So, this is a great time to think about all these positive things! While you are doing that, I also have this cool brush, That has a timer that is set for 30 seconds for every section of my teeth! And my brushing routine never takes more than 2 minutes! *Nerve wrecking music* *Hip-hop music* A great way to shorten your makeup routine in the morning, If you want to use makeup, is to use multi purpose products, As well as reducing your makeup to be bare essentials. With full-proof formulations, I have this 18 one 'BB' cream, which can replace your whole foundation routine in the morning. Try using a brow pencil with a soft formula And this is not only great to brush your hair, but it also helps blend out any mistakes! And your brows look soft and natural! Try use brown eyeliner pencil along your lash line and water line, Which you can smudge if you make a mistake and do a nice natural look. Instead of trying to do the winged liner. An eyelash curler to help wake up your eyes and mascara for a quick refreshed, Pair of peepers! A cream blush is easier to apply in a rush. 'Cus you can just use your fingers to blend it out. And when you use a lip tint to create an ombre lip, it's actually super quick to do and very hard to mess up! Because you don't need to spend time there doing the perfect lip liner, or anything! And the colors are very, very forgiving All these products will make you look refreshed and don't take much time. Or effort to apply. And it an all be done with your fingers 'Cus I always lose my makeup brushes and can't find them So, using your fingers is awesome in a rush! *Nerve wrecking music* *Closer by Chainsmokers feat. Halsey* See, if you are late you wont have time to wash your hair. And I also shower the night before, so dry shampoo is a perfect way to get rid of all the grease. A great hack is to blast the dry shampoo with a hair dryer. So, that you can get rid of all traces of the white powder. Also, there is clear dry shampoo now so you can try that. If you don't want to get caught with like white streaks in your hair. *Nerve wrecking music* *Hip-hop music* And next choose a hair style that's perfect for 2 or 3 day old hair. The high ponytail is perfect! So, to keep your ponytail up without it dropping down during the day, this is a great hack! Simply, grab the top section of hair and tie it in place Where you want the ponytail to sit! And basically grab the remainder of hair and pull it into the first section. And use a second hair tie, to tie it all together. This high ponytail does not budge guys, or fall down during the day. Which is awesome! And this hair tie also lifts your features and makes you look way more refreshed. And awake, even though you are feeling exhausted! *Nerve wrecking music* *Hip-hop music* So, when you're late you don't really have time to plan an outfit. So, try to putting together an emergency outfit burrito! All you need to do is put together an outfit you will always be comfortable wearing, And this can include; Socks and appropriate underwear for this particular outfit or even accessories if you want. Simply, put it together and roll it up and put it into the corner of the closet. So, that way in a pinch simply grab it and you have an outfit ready to go! Way better than what normally happens to me, Which is I basically pick up anything I find on the floor and wear it. And I just look like a disaster! *Nerve wrecking music* *Closer by Chainsmokers feat. Halsey* Skipping breakfast is not advisable, so for a healthy and quick 'breaky' on the go, Try making some smoothie bags to put in the freezer, I have 3 awesome recipes to share with you guys! So, the first one is a green smoothie, all you need is: spinach, green apple, kiwi fruit, lemon, mint, and ginger. And this is a great detox smoothie! The next is a berry and banana smoothie containing: Blueberry, mulberry, raspberry, strawberry, and banana! This is a great antioxidant burst and perfect to keep your skin glowing! And the final one is a tropical smoothie containing: Pineapple, mango, honeydew, strawberry, and bananas. And it's a perfect immune booster that targets inflammation, And makes sure you don't get sick, because we don't want that! Simply! Chop up the ingredients and for super lazy people like me, you can actually find already frozen blends in your grocery store! Place them into single serve sizes in a freezer bag and pop them in the freezer. So then, they are always fresh, icy, and ready to go! So, when you are in a rush simply take it out and blend. You an add water, milk, or yogurt to this mix, depending on how you like your smoothies. And a great tip if they are super frozen add some hot water to it. And, it will melt it right down! And I like adding water to mine, because I am lactose intolerant and it tastes pretty good, With just water! Now you an grab a bag and blend and the perfect thing about this breakfast is, Not only is it super low calorie and super healthy, you can actually drink it on the go, While you are driving, or on the train, or bus, on the way to wherever you are going. So you save so much time! *Nerve wrecking music* *Justin Beiber Love Yourself* You can also make you sandwich the night before as well. By using some baking paper to keep it from being soggy when you eat it the next day. And a bonus hack is when you are using round shaped fillings, The edges of your sandwich don't get any love and you miss the feeling there. So, a great way to do this is get two slices of this cut them all in half. And place them with the cut sides facing out, so you get filling in every single part of your sandwich. So, for the baking paper simply cut them to size, which is slightly bigger, Than your sandwich, and then what you want to do is place it on top of the bread. And then place your first layer of filling, second, then third layer of filling. And then you want to put you baking paper as your last layer before you finish up your sandwich. And when you are ready to eat your sandwich, simply flip your sandwich bag vertically, And just slip the baking paper out and that's it and you are ready to eat. It's a perfectly fresh sandwich every single time! *Nerve wrecking music* *Closer by Chainsmokers feat. Halsey* I was trying to think of hacks to avoid this, but really there is none. So just get into the habit of packing your bag the night before and always be prepared to leave, And not forget anything. The key point is really to build a habit and it becomes easier to do. And you will pretty much just do it without thinking. *Faint Closer by Chainsmokers feat. Halsey in the background* *Nerve wrecking music* *Hip-hop music* Being late probably means you are going to forget something, So you can make this DIY checklist to leave at the door, to make sure everything is done before you leave. Just simply grab a folder or a piece of cardboard and fold it in half, and cut it length wise. Then, cut it vertically into these little sections in as many sections as you like. Now, write the things you need to remember into these sections. Then simply grab some magnetic tape, and if you want to cover the surface of the tape with washy tape To make it look prettier. Then, peel off the back of your magnetic strip, and place it so that it meets together. So that you can open and close it, like this! Now to use the checklist just simply flip it up and close it when it's done! And once your checklist is all closed, you can go out the door knowing you haven't left anything behind. If you want you can stick a hook on the side of this for your keys next to the checklist, So they are always there ready for you to take with you. *Nerve wrecking music* Yes! We made it! With 18 seconds to go! We did it! So if you guys ever use any of these, please tag me! Last week we did school supply hacks and DIY's and you guys tagged me in a bunch of the one's you did, It makes me so happy! Hashtag Wengiecorns, and I will check it out! I will be stalking that hashtag all the time, it's going to be sad I'm not going to see you guys for a whole week but, If you guys follow me on social or my vlog channel, I will see you there! Bye! *Blows kiss to camera* Love you!