Where did you come from? Come on, come on, come on ! Zhao Qiang, it's not that you don't know me. I recruited you as a security guard. At that time, you were my boss. Of course I knew you. Now that Ms. Li is my boss, you are not qualified to enter here . Li Muxue, she is my girlfriend, how dare you stop me , bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah , bah, bah, you are reduced to a stinky delivery person, and Miss Li is your girlfriend , you don't take pictures of yourself , are you qualified? Shen Fan, what are you doing? Here comes Muxue. What does this mean? And why doesn't he let me in ? What else can he mean? My antique shop is full of antiques. If a deliveryman comes in and out of the tower at will and breaks something, can you afford to pay for it? This antique shop was left to me by my parents. You said you wanted to start a business and I gave it to you . And you promised that you would marry me. You look like a waste now. I gave this antique shop to you. Can you keep it? If not, Me and you What little property your damn parents left for you has been ruined by you a long time ago. What did you say? I said this antique shop was prospering because of my management. If your damn parents found out, they would have to crawl out of their graves and give it to me. Kowtow three times to thank me. You are Shen Fan, the licking dog who gave all the inheritance left by his parents to Muxue and went to deliver food. Hahaha, it's interesting. Muxue is here to propose to you today. Hey, he even bought a diamond ring. Are you moved? There is no mung bean, and it is not called a diamond ring. Although my ring is not big , I also saved up for more than half a year to buy it with 10,000 yuan. Look at what Mr. Chen gave me. Look at yours. Do you have the nerve to take it out? Take your trash away to me. Get out of here. You are so embarrassed here. You don't even know what you are . A smelly food delivery loser. Are you worthy of me? Mu Xue, I asked. you have from beginning to end Have you ever liked me? And you said you want to marry me ? Is it true that I like you and want to marry you ? Shen Fan, you don't even look at what you are like now. You are poor and stupid. What face do you have to say such things? I really What I like is people like Mr. Chen. He is the eldest son of the Chen family. Not to mention you now. Even when your parents were still alive, you can't compare to Mr. Chen's toe licking. You really like him. Oh, you are so lucky. It's a pity that you lick it. I've played every position with a woman I've never been able to lick in my life. You bastard, you dare to touch me and I 'll give you face. Mr. Chen, don't waste your time with this kind of rubbish. After all, his value has been drained by me long ago. But now it's I am a useless person. I am going to participate in Jiangcheng's treasure tasting event tonight. I will take you to the mall to buy some clothes and dress you up beautifully. I have face, thank you, God. You are so good to me. Then I will definitely be good to you. want Remember to serve me well tonight. If you hate leaving me, you are such a bitch, I won't let you go. I actually gave the antique shop my parents left me to a woman like that. I still live frugally on steamed buns every day. It's silly to support money . I'm so hungry. Young man, can you give me this steamed bun? Old man, I haven't eaten for a day, okay? Look at both of us, we are both poor people . This steamed bun, let's have half for each of you, half for each of us. Let's go and eat. Why is this not enough? There are also other things. Do you want to eat as much as you want ? How did you do it ? You do magic. Young man, I see that you are kind-hearted and received a fortune. This is the legend. There are countless wonderful uses of the cornucopia . Cherish it. What is the cornucopia ? It's not this. I'll go and try it with this diamond ring. 2 really turned into 2, 4 and 4. Oh my God, this is really the legendary cornucopia. Only then can I respond. Reply Li Muxue, Chen Haoyang, you two bitches, just wait for me. Now that I have a cornucopia , I want to take back everything that belongs to me. Let me kneel down and beg for mercy. This treasure must be hidden and cannot be discovered by others. Just sell all these rings . I'm rich. You stinky gangster dared to take advantage of me . I'm sorry. I didn't mean to bump into you. I'm sorry . I'm sorry. You broke my shoes even if you used them. Do you know how much it cost? 8,000 Hurry up and pay me 8,000. What kind of shoes are worth 8,000 yuan? I'm an internet celebrity. Of course they can't be compared to those of you who run out to take out food. You're talking nonsense to me. Hurry up and get me the money. Don't waste my time. But I don't have that much right now. Money , I can hand you this ring. This ring is worth 10,000 yuan, which is enough to cover your pair of shoes. You are teasing me here. This stall is a waste of money. The paper value is 10,000 yuan. It seems that it is a fake bought from some small commodity market. I think 3 for 10 yuan is too much. Don't look at my ring. Although it is not big , it is indeed a genuine diamond ring. If you don't believe it, You can find someone to identify it. I didn't expect that you, a delivery boy, also work part-time as a street vendor selling fake goods to deceive people. If this is true, I will start broadcasting it right away and give it to you in front of my 200,000 fans. Wash your feet. This is what you said. You need someone to identify you now. You are so stubborn. Let me tell you. Do you know who my top brother is? My top brother is the son of the Zhou family, the number one jewelry store in Jiangcheng. He can tell you at a glance. If I can expose your fake, just wait for me, you Xiaomeng, Xiaomeng, Mr. Zhou, a stinky deliveryman just hit me and said he wanted to get me a fake diamond ring to accompany me. I exposed him and he retorted . If you want to say that the diamond ring is real, you have to help me take a good look at the fake diamond ring. Bring it over and let me take a look at it, Mr. Jie. Look, this fool has set up a stall all over the floor with hundreds of diamond rings. He actually said that these diamond rings are real. They treat me like a fool. He sets up a street stall to buy diamond rings. All fools know that it must be the color, luster , craftsmanship. Just show me the rest . Mr. Zhou can set up a street stall to sell diamond rings for 230,000 yuan. This fool really can't even cheat money. If you don't take another one, I'll take a few. I need to see clearly Mr. Zhou. There's no need to look at these fakes one by one. Hey, where is the brother who sells diamond rings? Give him your cell phone. I want to talk to him. What can you say about a stinky liar? Mr. Zhou, no need to waste your time. I will call the police and arrest him. Stop talking nonsense. Give him the opportunity , um, he said he wants to deal with you personally. Just wait until you die. Brother, these rings are all yours. How many of them are exactly 100, each one is exactly the same , and all of them are real. 100 brothers, wait for me here, I will be there soon. Don't go anywhere. I'll be at Mr. Zhou's house right away. But Jiangcheng's largest jeweler hates this the most. It's a fake. I'm definitely here to take care of you personally this time . You're dead . If you have any discernment, you can tell that all my rings are real . Why don't you talk back? Mr. Zhou will be here soon . Don't kneel down. Come down and beg for mercy, Mr. Zhou, you are here. Brother, those diamond rings are invisible . Haha, they are so amazing . As expected, these are all here. Is it fake? You know what is fake ? These are all real . Scholar, are you not mistaken? These diamond rings are all real . I can tell at a glance whether they are real or fake. It's your turn to question. Of course, this is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that these rings are all exactly the same, with the same cut, luster, and even minor flaws, let alone flowers. I've never seen these before , bro. Do you want to sell them? The original price of this one is 9,999. If you want them all, I understand. I understand that the preciousness of these rings is that they are all exactly the same . Of course, it is more expensive to buy them all together. It's 20,000 each, 2 million . Okay, do you want all 2 million ? My situation is low, so I'll add a little more sincerity. 3 million, okay , that 's great, come on, stop, Alipay has received 3 million yuan, thank you for your patronage last week, oh, it's a brother who gave me face, hahaha, I made 3 million in this time , hahaha, oh, brother, you can take out this easily You are definitely not an ordinary person. Will you go to the tasting conference tonight ? Tasting Conference Li Mu Xue said that the tasting conference he was going to go back to tonight was the one we could go to in Jiang Chen's prosperous era. They were all high-class people, especially this time. I heard that the eldest lady of the Song family will also come to the Song family tonight in Jiangcheng. The Song family, an ancient family , is right. Miss Song's father's cold poison has relapsed. There is only one red flame pill left to suppress the cold poison. This is gone. Medicine, Ms. Song's father may explode and die at any time due to the cold poison. Now, Miss Song is looking everywhere for an expert who can provide the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill . I have a cornucopia of the Song family's Nine-turn Red Flame Pill. So what kind of Nine-turn Red Flame Pill can be transformed with the cornucopia ? No matter how much I make, it won't be a problem. Then, wouldn't it make Miss Song feel grateful to me? Well, then I'll trample Li Muxue and Chen to death. Haoyang , that couple of bitches, it's not so easy . Huh, brother, you have to come tonight. I'll wait for you. Hahahaha. Stop it ! Good brother, it turns out those diamond rings are real. They sold them for 3 million in one go. Do you have to thank me? Look at me. Just now I was delivering food with a stinky mouth. Now I have become a good brother . What does it have to do with you that I sold it for 3 million? Oh my good brother, if they hadn't called Mr. Zhou over, you wouldn't have been able to sell it at such a high price. What do you want to say if they have merit ? Oh, they just want to talk to you. Let's get to know each other, and my good brother doesn't have a boyfriend yet. Why don't you remind me ? I also forgot, should you turn on the live broadcast now to wash my feet? Of course there is no problem, but it can't be on the road. How about we go to your house, and there are some things that can't be done through live broadcast. Oh, and this The good thing is, good brother, I already noticed your specialness when I first met you. It's different , so you'll take me to the tasting tonight, okay? I'll dress up beautifully so that you can look good. It just so happens that I just broke up with my girlfriend and gave him a loan to show him more beautiful beauties. It's not like I can't find a great brother. Don't worry , I will make him regret it to death. Good brother, mine. My shoes are broken, why don't you take me to the mall to buy me a pair of shoes now ? As long as you are sensible enough, it won't be a problem to buy a few pairs of shoes. My dear brother, you are so kind to me. I love you so much. Get in the car and I will take you to buy a pair. Shoes, buy nice clothes, and then go to the tasting meeting. Wow, that one is Mr. Zhang from the Dihao Group and that one. Isn't that Mr. Li from the Nancheng Li Group? Sure enough, they are all big shots from all walks of life. Just help anyone from the Normal School and we will be prosperous. Someone truly worth fawning over is standing in front of you now. Why do you need to look at them? The Normal School is here. We are all big shots, so don't talk nonsense, otherwise we will both be ruined. Hehe . Brother Zhou , he is his brother. I knew you would definitely come. Dad, this batch of diamond rings was sold by this brother, right? This is Mr. Zhou, the head of the Zhou family, the largest jewelry family in Jiangcheng . This is a real big shot, Mr. Zhou. Hey, Mr. Zhou, hello, Mr. Zhou. You are here dressed like this. This is my work clothes. I wear them all the time. This work clothes are fine. Work clothes. You are afraid that others will not know that you are a food delivery person. It is really embarrassing. Dad, what are you doing? How many times have I told you not to come with this low-class person? He is a food delivery person and is lucky. What if I just picked up a batch of rings? A low-class person will always be a low-class person and you still want to shake hands with me. Is he worthy? Master Zhou is right. Shen Fan, I was just wondering how you got in. It turns out you were hooking up with Mr. Zhou. But it's a pity that a trash like you is not welcome even if you get in . A rubbish country bumpkin really dares to come here, but you are a delivery person, how can you have the nerve to sit here? Miss Song Jia and Song Wanqing are really Miss Song. Miss Song is the eldest daughter of the Song family . If she can win her favor , wouldn't our Chen family soar to the sky? Shenfan, if you see that one, it's the eldest lady of the Song family . Thank you all for coming to test the nine-turn elixir. I believe everyone already knows that we all know that Mr. Song needs to take Jiuzhuan Experimental Pill for a long time to suppress the cold poison. Please rest assured, Ms. Song , our Zhao family has sent people. If there is any news , we will immediately notify the Song family. Yes, Miss Song. It is our honor that Song Jia can use us. We cannot refuse to thank everyone. Song Jia will never treat others badly. No matter who it is, as long as Song Jia can provide information about the 9-turn test order, Song Jia will do it. Will give away 10 million in cash. Wow, Shen Wen, you see, you don't have a lot of money. It's just to buy a piece of news . Right, Song Jia is really wealthy. Just buying a piece of news can cost 10 million. What if he comes up with the real Nine Turns Red Eye Pill? Then what kind of thanks will Song Jia give? Hehe, he is really a bitch. The Nine Turns Red Flame Pill is so precious . Stop dreaming. If someone can directly take out the Nine Turns Red Flame Pill, I, Song Wanqing, owe him a big favor. As long as I I can do it. No matter what conditions he puts forward, I will answer them. I heard you right. No amount of money can buy you the favor of Miss Song . Oh, we don't have any clues. Otherwise, we have to find a way to find Jiuzhuanchi no matter how difficult it is. If Yan Dan gets it from Miss Song, We have designated favors to soar to the sky. Yes, yes, yes, Miss Song, you are qualified to see it with your dog eyes. You toad, don't dream about eating swan meat. Miss Song's favor can only be a scepter. The dreamer is you. Miss Song will only thank one person today, and that's you, Miss Song. Sister, please stay where is the delivery person? Who ordered the take-out? How could anyone order take-out in this situation ? The delivery person went to the wrong place , right? I advise you to hurry up and deliver the take-out. Otherwise, you will be fined for overtime . Yue has to eat steamed buns again, Miss Song, if I really can Take out the Nine Turns Red Eye Pill. Is what you just said true? How can you, Chen Fan, have any trouble ? Chi Yan Pill, stop talking nonsense. Shut up. You dare to offend Miss Song. If you want to die, don't implicate us. Brother, don't mess around . She said it would be over if she angered Miss Song. Shen Fan, you are a stinky delivery person. You actually said that you have the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill, aren't you lying to Miss Song? I, Song Wanqing, promise a thousand pieces of gold . As long as someone can provide the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill, I will naturally respond to your request. But if someone uses this to make a fuss, I will definitely take Miss Song's life . He's just a stinky food delivery guy There must be no nine-turn late test form. He is just playing tricks on you. Yes, Miss Song, I know him and his details. I know very well that he is just a poor guy who lives in the basement and eats steamed buns. How could he get a nine-turn seven test? Hello , Miss Song. I am Chen Haoyang of the Chen family. Our Chen family does not have the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill, but after learning about your father's situation, I specially found this sword, a genius treasure. You guys , this thing is called the Fire Body Flame. Although it is not as magical as the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill , it is also rare in the world. If Mr. Song takes it, he can at least delay the cold poison for seven days. I've heard that the fire god flame is definitely a good thing. Yes, it's indeed a good quality fire ginseng feast. You're interested. Brother, Haoyang is completely developed this week. He won't have a grudge against you . If I let you go, run away now. From now on, Jiang Chen, don't come back. Mr. Zhou , thank you for your kindness. Not only will I not leave, but I also want to see how long this clown can perform. I can't help you now. The Nine Turns Red Flame Pill uses the nine highest yang and highest strength in the world. One of them is the god of fire . Although this is just the god of fire. A leaf , but it's better than nothing. It's considered thoughtful . Tell me what you want . The Song family will satisfy you. Chen Shao. Miss Song accepted your Vulcan banquet and let you make requests . The opportunity has come. Chen Shao thanked Miss Song. As for my request, I want him to die. Shen Fan You asked for this, you stinky food delivery guy And I'm from a famous family , and now I'm offering a big name to the Song family. I can dominate the entire Jiangcheng in the future . What are you going to do to fight me? I hope you can have such a high voice when you kneel on the ground and cry. Haha, are you dizzy? Miss Song is still alive when death is imminent. Chen Haoyang's so-called Vulcan Liquid is nothing but bullshit. I can directly refine the Nine Turns Red Eye Pill for you. I think you are getting more and more outrageous. Hurry up and apologize to Miss Song. There is also Chen Haoyang, whom we can't mess with at all. It's better for him to run away. If you stay here, you'll die. Ah, Shen Fan, you are crazy. Miss Su, Shen Fan is my friend. He speaks indiscriminately . Don't argue with him . Zhou Chaoyang, shut up. Miss Song, don't listen to this bastard's nonsense. We don't know each other. Whether this food delivery guy is alive or dead has nothing to do with me, right Shen Fan? Can you really take out a 9-turn test sheet ? Isn't it a 9-turn test sheet? Don't say it's one. Even if it's 10 or 100, I can easily take out 100. With just these words, I can beat you to death and drag you out. Feed the dog , you better not lie to me, otherwise no one can protect you. Hum Shen Fan, if you can't get the 9-turn test sheet, you will die. This is what you asked for. You can't blame anyone else , Miss Song. I need a 9-turn test sheet. Just let me study it and I can refine it immediately. You can get as many as you want. Just give me one and I can use the cornucopia to conjure countless ones. Hahaha, everyone, did you hear this? This stinky delivery guy said he could extract the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill. Why do you think we all are fools ? Yes, the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill is so noble. The Song family only has this one. I used it for research and ruined your life. How can I compensate Miss Song? Give me the only nine-turn red flame pill you have left. Then I can give you ten or a hundred pills, which is enough for you. Dad will eat it for the rest of his life. If I can't get it out, the Song family wants to kill me. Xi Tingzun will go and get the Nine Turns Red Flame Pill. Miss, that's our last one. If he damages it, he dares to take his life. Let me make a bet and let him try to get it. Is this the legendary Nine-turn Red Flame Pill? Why do I feel that the temperature around me has risen ? Yes, this is the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill . Yang Zhigang's genius landscape was tempered by heavenly fire for 99 days to make the elixir. Yes, and many of them are almost impossible to find. For example, the God of Fire has become extinct. It is already rare for the city to take out the God of Fire liquid. Baby, as for this real 9-turn test sheet, I'm afraid this is the only one left in the world , you piece of shit, what are you doing? Shen Fan, this is the only precious one. If you damage the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill, you can't afford to lose 10 lives. Shen Fan, don't mess around . Are you sure? You should think clearly that once you damage the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill, no one in this world can protect it. I have to take care of you, Miss Song. No one in this world can help you except me. This Nine-turn Red Flame Pill can't save your father anyway. Why don't you believe me once ? I only give you 1 minute. That 's enough. Gou Bajie, what are you doing? Shen Fan, you actually put such a precious Nine-turn Red Flame Pill into your broken takeout box, why don't you take it out quickly? I understand that you want to steal the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill. You really want to die, Miss Song. This stinky delivery guy is obviously here to lie to you. I'm willing to work for you and beat him to death and then throw him out to feed the dogs . Come on, why are you so anxious? Isn't it the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill ? To me, meaning is like jelly beans. I will have as many as you want. You are still a stubborn duck and you are a tough talker. If you, a delivery boy, can come up with the second Nine Turns Red Flame Pill, I, Chen Haoyang, will immediately kneel down and crawl in the audience today. Three rounds and then I'll put on your clothes and give you a lifetime takeaway. That's right. If you can take it out, I'll kneel down and apologize to you immediately. I can even return your antique shop to you. Okay, this is what you said, but if you can't take it out, if he can't take it out, he won't even think about leaving here. Hahaha, Miss Song is angry . Shen Fan, I advise you not to act like a ghost here, and quickly get that Nine Turns Red Flame. Return the pill to Miss Song and then kneel down and die. Shen Fan, Shen Fan, why are you doing this? Since you are destined to deliver food, just deliver food honestly . It's okay to come to this place where I'm not qualified. I pretended to be happy and now I regret it. But it's too late. You're such a stupid lion. Let's stop being stubborn. Let's find a way to survive. It's not worth losing your life for the city wall . Damn, Song Wanqing is a bit ruthless. The small nine-turn red flame pill should not be that much for the cornucopia. Didn't you say that I can't refine the nine-turn red flame pill? Then take a good look at what this is . will take this place, are you fucking sick? Isn't this the nine-turn red flame pill just now? It's yours. Shen Fan, are you sick? Put Miss Song's nine-turn test sheet into your broken box and take it out again. Shen Fan, if you dare to play tricks on my lady, I will shoot him right away. Wait , Miss Song , it would be too easy for him to kill him with a gun. If I kill this loser now, no one will have any objections, huh? Look at him, he just delivers food and is mentally ill. What do you think he is? Who knows if this mental illness is contagious ? Who knows if this mental illness is contagious? Hurry and kill him. Oh, I don't know if mental illness is contagious. But he smells poor and sour. The whole room is filled with Mr. Chen, hurry up and do it, Chen Haoyang. If you were If you dare to touch me, I guarantee you will regret it for the rest of your life. If you kneel down and admit your mistake now, it's still too late. Otherwise, don't blame me for not giving you a chance . You are still pretending when you are about to die. I will kill you now. You are seeking death . Chen Haoyang. If the lock is broken, nine Turn red eye pill Next time it will be your head that explodes. Do you still have the Nine-turn Red Flame Pill ? Do you still remember what I said? The Nine-turn Red Flame Pill is the only one you need. How much does it cost ? Tian Bao, go and get me a plate, splash. Installation, oh, is it enough ? How is it possible ? How is it possible? It's impossible. It 's true . It's not enough. It's impossible. It's absolutely impossible. Shen Fan, what on earth are you trying to do? I understand there must be something wrong with this . Hey, he actually has the Nine Turns of Foreign Land Red Flame Pill. Come on, fake it. These must all be fake. How could this delivery guy be like this? Yes, there are many Nine-turn Red Flame Pills. These Nine-turn Red Flame Pills must all be fake. He had already prepared to use them. You really deserve to be cheated by brand-name goods. Do you think you can get away with these fake goods ? Shen Fan, shouldn't you give a reasonable explanation? Is it true or false? Why do you need me to explain ? Miss Song, you have verified that it is correct, Miss Song. Hurry up and test it. If it's fake, kill it immediately. This shit is real. It has the same smell and hot properties as the holy ammunition. Is the Nine Turns Red Flame Pill real? These are all real. This is impossible. This is absolutely impossible. I do n't believe it, Shi Wen . How many things are you hiding from me? You have so many entanglements. Why don't you tell me ? I was screaming, now I know I regret it, and blaming others is really dirty, harsh and shameless. Chen Haoyang. Now kneel down and climb three times to start. Then go prepare to deliver takeaways for a lifetime. I can introduce you to someone. The debt commission is high, I, I, you, what are you? Forget what you said yourself. I crawl, don't fight, don't fight . Cheng , I crawl, I'm afraid that's how I should deal with landlords. Shen Fan, in fact, these things are all misunderstandings. I have always had you in my heart. Yes, Shen Fan, aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa women one should love oneself one's former Shen Fan, but you don't care now Brother Shen here, you can't afford to have so little, it's almost all a misunderstanding, right? Then should I forgive you immediately and continue to give you money to support you? Lin Muxue antique shop was left to me by my parents . You can't even think of finishing it tomorrow morning. I will receive it from you personally. Shen Fan, don't be proud . Don't expect me to give you the antiques. You are right to return the store to you . Do you think it is so easy to take back the antique store? You never think you have the ability. Come to the antique store tomorrow and try it. If you dare to come, I will kill you. Let's leave. Let him go. Shen Fan, if necessary, I can kill them both. No need, Miss Song's antique shop was left to me by my parents. I want to take it back with my own hands. And I have already thought about how to make them regret it for the rest of their lives tomorrow . Now I am in a hurry to go back and give my dad a wine cup and a human-eating pill. When everything is sorted out, I will come to your door in person to thank you. I will make sure you are satisfied . Okay, we should leave now. Isn't that what you told me? Not only do you want to wash my feet, but you also do some live broadcasts. Why do you regret what you did ? Hey, you hate it so much. So many people heard it just now. So many people heard it. What's wrong? They can't see it. They hate it. Have you prepared work clothes? Work clothes, what kind of work clothes ? Oh, it's not your work clothes. It's your brother's work clothes. Forget it . Over there. There's a convenience store. I'll go buy some. Wait for me here . Cheers. Li Qianqian. Zhao Zitao. Hello. Old classmates, Shen Chenfan. Hey , Shen Fan. It's really you. Today, my son, Brother Tao, invited us to a class reunion in Jiangcheng. You came just in time. Take a seat . Hey, Shen Fan, look at your clothes. You're so miserable and you're delivering takeout. Isn't that miserable? It's not bad. I think delivering food is good. You can make money and exercise. Before our class, you had the best grades, right? What's the use? After graduation, are you still doing food delivery ? Look at our monitor, Zhao Zitao, who has already started his own business and is the boss at a young age. Zhao Zitao, you must make a lot of money now that you are the boss, right ? It's okay to start a small business . I can make more than 1 million a year casually. I saw that there is no Rolex. The big gold watch I'm talking about is more than 300,000 and 300,000. Wow, how long does it take to save for a big gold watch of more than 300,000? I can only afford it. My annual salary is only 50,000. I have to go without food and drink for six years before I can afford it. Brother Zitao, are you so awesome? When will you bring me to see the life of you rich people? This is all trivial. Has Shen Fan never seen such high-end goods? Hey, squad leader, your watch looks familiar to me. It looks like the one I bought. Like Shen Fan, it's not shameful for you to deliver food, but don't brag. This gold watch is more than 300,000 yuan . You have been delivering food for ten years and you can't afford it. Shen Fan, you have no money and no knowledge, so talk less so as not to open your mouth . It's so embarrassing to be seen as bragging . Hey, let's talk about some happy things among our classmates. How is Shen Fan doing recently ? Have you talked to a girlfriend? This girlfriend, I am his girlfriend, look at him. Virtue, he has to take time out to deliver food when he is dating someone. Which crazy woman would date him? We women are not stupid enough to learn to wait with someone like Shen Fan. Shen Fan has been waiting for a long time. Who are they? Wow, isn't this? Is he Jiang Cheng's Internet celebrity Qian Meng? He looks better in real life than in the video. Hey, I know him . I often watch his live broadcasts. You two have an unusual relationship, right ? Internet celebrity Qian Meng . What's the relationship between you? Hello everyone, I'm Shen Fan. My friend Qianmeng is currently pursuing him, but he hasn't agreed to me yet. Hey, Shen Fan. Why are these all my classmates ? She's a beauty. He's just a food delivery guy. His pocket is cleaner than his face. It's too much of a loss for you to follow him. Look at me. I can earn more than 1 million a year casually. Oh, look at my Rolex King Long. It 's more than 300,000 . Rolex, it's more than 300,000 . Beauty, this is a luxury. Don't even think about tasting the food delivery guy next to you . I didn't see such a beautiful watch just now. Can you let me take a closer look? Okay, I'll let you take a good look at it today. After all, this is your generation. This is the only time I have been exposed to this kind of luxury goods. Luxury goods are luxury goods. They are so shiny and beautiful. Can you let me hold them in my hand ? You must be reluctant to part with them. You are a big boss. This kind of watch is nothing to you . Who said I can't bear to see you so pitiful , so I'm going to show mercy and let you feel it? Hey , you should be careful. This watch costs more than 300,000 yuan. If you break it, you can't afford to pay for it if you go out for takeout and mosquitoes come out and smoke. Oh, this big gold watch, which costs more than 300,000 yuan, is beautiful. But why do I feel like I just came from The wholesale goods in that commodity wholesale market are like parallel imports. What are you talking about? You stinky dick, what good things have you seen? You know? Shit , oh, really, I didn't lie to you. I bought three at the wholesale market next door for 10 yuan and free shipping. I bought a lot of Shenwan. Are you sure you read it right? This can be fake . I can put your shit. Are there any fakes? Is your watch fake? I don't know. Anyway, I have a bunch of them exactly the same. Wait for me for a while and I'll give each one to you. Everyone will give you one. My watch. Shen Fan, are you looking for death? Are you trying to snatch the watch away ? Why are you so anxious? I can still run away. Why don't you want the watch? I'll give it to you. Hey, what did you do to my watch ? You piece of shit, give me back your watch. What's going on ? Is that enough? I have more here. Damn, they're all the same as the golden wolf . Your watch can't be fake, right? Mine is real. How could I buy a fake watch ? Which one is mine? If you look at it yourself, it's really exactly the same. There's no difference at all . Oh, go away and don't touch my watch. Uh-huh, uh-huh, damn, where's my watch ? Where's my real watch? Damn it. It 's really exactly the same . Which one of these is my watch? This one is for everyone who comes to meet you. Each of you can take one for yourself and regard it as a meeting gift. Thank you, thank you, thank you . Put it down and don't touch my watch. My real watch is still there. What's going on inside? Okay , old squad leader, why are you pretending to be pretending at this time? If it's fake , it's fake. We have one person now and I'm not looking down on you. I'm not pretending. I really spent 300,000 yuan to buy it. My payment record is still here. I 'll show it to you. Okay, okay. Who wants to see it? After all, it's 300,000 yuan. It's not like anyone can buy a watch if they want to , but we can understand it if they can't afford it . Hey, Chen Fan, look at me wearing this big watch on my hand. Do I look like a big boss ? Hey, don't say that . Don't say that you are wearing it. It's true to go to this big golden dome I have more temperament than the monitor. Could it be that I was deceived? I spent 300,000 yuan to buy a fake one. Don't tell me that the counterfeiting technology nowadays is really amazing . I won't tell you. Does anyone know that this is a fake watch? Old squad leader, I don't think you can get involved either. The drama is too deep. Why did you spend more than 300,000 to be deceived? Just say that you bought a fake one to show off. The monitor has exposed it all and I can only pretend to be awesome . Did you buy my brother's work clothes? Of course, after buying it, we Then we had a barbecue here. Of course, we hurried home and got in the car. Why are you waiting like a bull ? A moment of spring night is worth a thousand pieces of gold. You have been having a night of spring for several quarters. Wait, wait, that one is gone. Don't be afraid. Why are you so suddenly like that? Come on, where did you get all this? I told you I could do magic tricks. Do you believe it or not? I hate it. You must have bought it when you were with your ex-girlfriend. I don't care if you have to use all this ancient stuff for me tonight. The toy shop is the work of my parents. I blindly gave it to that woman before. Today I want to take it back . You really came here . I came to take back what belongs to me. Of course I am back. Shen Fan , don't think Miss Song owes you anything. I 'm telling you, if I didn't do it for Miss Song's sake, it would be as simple as squeezing you to death an ant. It's amazing. I don't know who is crawling yesterday. Come on , you crawling bitch , Mr. Chen, why waste your time with them? Shen Fan, don't you want to go back to the antique store? Here you go, this is a free transfer agreement. I have already signed it . You just need to sign it again. Shi Fan. Are there any problems if they have promised so many officials? They are not afraid that if they dare to cause trouble, they will die even more miserably. Li Muxue, where is my Ru kiln glass cup? Hurry up and bring it to me. Master Jiu is here. Master Jiu, don't worry. You want the glass cup? I've prepared the glasses for you a long time ago. Hahaha, if you're ready, hurry up and bring them to me . My pair of glasses are stored here. They will be of great use in today's auction. Don't delay my affairs. Haha. Who doesn't know you, Mr. Jiu? He is the underground emperor of Jiang Chen. How dare I miss your business? Just wait a moment and I will bring it to you and break it into pieces. This is a family heirloom given by the emperor. You actually broke a Jiu Ye for me. This is what I am doing. I don't know, after all, I'm old It's him. You have to ask him. Lin Muxue, what do you mean ? I'm not wrong. Aren't you the owner of this antique shop? Shen Fan signed, but don't deny it. You broke Master Jiu's glass cup. What do you want to do now ? Master Jiu, you don't know. This person is called Shen Fan . He is now the owner of this store, so this store has nothing to do with Li Muxue. Your cup was broken, so he should be responsible, Jiu. This Shen Fan is a poor guy, and he has dirty hands and is carrying that glass cup. He must be the one who broke the glass cup you are so gushing about. Shen Fan obviously just came here and he doesn't even know how he could break it. Well, what can we do about this? He can't control so much. He is the owner of this store now. If he is not responsible, who will be responsible? I asked you to hand over the store. Why did you agree so happily ? It turns out you want to harm me. Stop talking nonsense, Shen Fan. Master Jiu is one of the most famous celebrities in Jiangcheng. You broke Master Jiu's treasure. Master Jiu will definitely not let you go. I see how arrogant you are, so shut up. Boy, these pair of glass cups are the heirlooms of my Zheng family. There is no third one in the world. Since you broke one of mine, I will kill you. Master Jiu, I really don't know about this cup. Mr. Qing , it's useless to talk to me. Since you are the boss , I can only deal with your master. How about we pay for it? I'll tell you, this glazed tablet was given by the emperor hundreds of years ago . My ancestor's is a priceless treasure that is unparalleled in the world. I'll pay for it with money. I'll pay for it with my life. It's almost like Yu Yu gave me a priceless treasure. Now that I know it, I'm scared. Come on, Shen Fan, you broke Master Jiu's treasure and you're dead. I told you a long time ago that you can't fight. I have to be arrogant with me. What are you using to be arrogant this time? Oh, it's so strong. Isn't it just a cup? Isn't that a big deal? I'll give you an identical pair. Shen Fan, you're still pretending. You said you could produce a complete pair of colored glazes. That thing in the cup is an orphan. Do you know what an orphan is? It's a priceless treasure that only has one pair in this world. Whoever said it couldn't be taken out , I can take it out. Shen Fan, I don't know what's going on with this store, but since you I can only go to you for this matter, boss. Hey, Shen Man, do you hear me clearly? If you kneel down now and admit your mistake to Master Jiu, Maybe Master Jiu will give you a powerful excuse to scold me. Master Jiu, can you show me that cup and see what you want to do? This precious glass cup is worthy of your dirty hands as a food delivery person . I even touched you with my dirty hands. Why don't you dislike it? Okay , I don't have time to listen to you tell dirty jokes here. You want to see it, right? I'll show it to you . But if you can't take out another cup, Don't blame me for being cruel and ruthless . Shunfan is waiting to die. Is your Jiuye's broken cup exactly the same as this one ? Of course, it's a pair of wine glasses given to my ancestors by the emperor. They are exactly the same. What a bumpkin who has no knowledge and is just pretending. There is no way this world can exist. If you can come up with the second glass cup that is exactly the same , I will break the glass and chew it. Fold this, you said it. Remember what you said. It is a priceless treasure given by the emperor. What are you doing? It is really your own fault. Lord Jiu will never let you go. You are such a daredevil. Come here and give this piece of shit to me. I, Jiuye, please be safe and don't make any mistakes. If you are so angry, eat more cool things to reduce the heat. This is my original milk. Didn't you say you wanted to accompany me ? How is this possible? Where did this cup come from? Absolutely not Maybe there is no way he can take it out. It must be fake. Master Jiu, this glass cup must be fake. You must not be deceived by him. It is real. How is this possible? Master Jiu, are you wrong? Take a closer look at the fart. This is my thing. How could I get it wrong ? This is definitely true . It may be false . But how is this possible ? I only have one pair passed down from my ancestors. Why is there an extra foot now ? How is this possible? It's obvious. It's obvious that I forced him into his mouth with my own hands . It's so hard to think about it . Hey, why are you covering his mouth? What he wants to say, just let him say it. Shen Ben, don't think you've won. I'm telling you not to be complacent. That 's enough. You have so much nonsense. Didn't you just say that you were going to stir this broken cup? Now stir it up for me. You two, feed him to me. Don't leave any crumbs behind. It's Master Jiu, don't, don't, don't, come here . Come here. Master Jiu , I was just joking . Let's go. I'm joking . If you really can't eat alone, why don't you ask Li Muxue to help you ? Would it be better for two people to eat? Shi Wen, you are still not a human , why are you still standing there? Feed him, don't, don't, don't. Hey, feed him first. He will go first. Feed him, Chen Haoran, you are such a scumbag. I have to be blind to fall in love with you. Okay, time is running out. I'm going to attend the biggest auction in Jiangnan. Let's go first, little brother. There will be an auction later, hahaha. I have a cornucopia. No matter what I take , I will make a fortune if I use the cornucopia. Yes, I have to go . I finally lost the antique shop. Although it is still very rundown , it doesn't matter. With me, this treasure is nothing. The question is, where are we going to go to the auction now? According to Master Jiu, it should be a grand event . There will definitely be a lot of treasures there, so we can just get some. Come here to replenish the resources of my antique shop. That should cost a lot of money, right? The most important thing I need is money. Go to the gold store to buy a gold brick. Uh, why do you want to buy a gold brick? Of course, use gold bricks to lay eggs and give birth to small gold bricks. Today. Isn't that my niece Xiaoxuan in front ? Shen Fan, wait for me here. This is a lollipop that my dad brought from France. How about you guys? Wow, this lollipop is so pretty. It must be delicious. Your father is really good and has been to France . Of course, this kind of lollipop is only available in France. I can't buy it in China. I can't buy it . Show me your lollipop. Can you go away? I won't show it to you. You must want to eat Xiaoxuan secretly. What are you doing? How do you push others? Xiaoxuan, are you okay? You want to eat that lollipop, auntie, why are you here ? I, I, I don't want to eat lollipops. Why don't you like eating? You must be. I know I can't eat that's why I said this , my aunt will take you to buy it. Are the lollipops good ? What's the meaning of the ones in the supermarket ? This is a French lollipop. It 's delicious . You can't even buy it in China. Little fat boy, I've seen the lollipop in your hand before. It's not actually from a foreign supermarket. It's everywhere. If you don't believe it, let me take a closer look. There are lollipops in the supermarket. I almost got deceived by you. You're talking nonsense. My dad said he brought them back from France. There's no one in the country. Can you give me a look? Did you know that? Then if you look carefully, it must be France, please return it to me right away after reading it. Don't worry, I am an adult. How could I lie to France? You should return my lollipop to me . Otherwise, I will ask your father to beat you. Why are you so anxious ? I have so many. How can I snatch them away? Your lollipops, wow, there are so many lollipops, just like the chubby ones. Thank you, I gave them to you. Thank you, brother . This is yours. Thank you. My father clearly said that it is only available abroad and cannot be bought in China. You were deceived by your father. That's it. Otherwise, what will happen to this big brother, the delivery guy ? You can bring out so much. My father dares to lie to me. I want to go find him. I just thanked you. Why are you so polite to me ? Then I will send Xiaoxuan home first. There is a gold shop in front of you. You go there first. Okay. By the way, we are in Jiangcheng tonight . There is a party at the online club . Do you want to come with us? All the internet celebrities are beauties. Bad guy, what are you thinking ? Come with me. You want to pretend to be my boyfriend . Well, I'll see you tonight. I'll have a good time. What's good? I didn't see that I was busy. I did n't order takeout today. I went to the wrong place. Go quickly. Go quickly. Hello, I'm here to buy gold. Buy gold. Don't you look at your own virtues? Do you think you are a person who can afford gold? If you have nothing to do, just run two more orders and make more money. Stop daydreaming here . How do you know that I am daydreaming? Let me tell you, I had a dream when I was taking a nap at noon today. I dreamed that an old god gave me a large sum of money to buy gold. Are you sick ? Do you not believe it? If you don't believe me, I'll show you that your balance is 1,203,960 yuan. You just used some software to lie to me. Oh , handsome guy . I'm sorry, I had a bad attitude just now. May I ask what kind of gold you want to buy ? We have all kinds of gold in our store. I've been daydreaming about it for a long time. My neck is a little sore after sleeping with a stiff neck. I understand. How about this handsome guy ? Is this strength okay? You said my neck is sore . Oh, oh, okay, okay. Go get the biggest one in your store. Bring me the gold bricks . Wait a minute, handsome man. This gold brick is the purest and largest in our store. It weighs exactly two pounds and is priced at 300,000 per pound. Of course, if you want a smaller one , we will start work. It doesn't matter if you are a man or a woman. Who doesn't like big ones? The bigger the better, that's it. Scan the QR code and spend 300,000 yuan. Handsome guy, don't leave in a hurry. Let's get to know each other. Not only am I big , but I'm single. Next time. Sure, he is obviously a rich man, why are you pretending to be a delivery boy ? I really hate it. Give me a gold brick. I want to become the richest man in the world. Snow leopard basin starts the snow treasure basin and I get angry and angry . Hahaha , hey hey hey . I love you to death. My big baby, old man. Before, when you followed me, you could only pretend to be takeout. Now that we are rich, we don't pretend to be takeout. Zhuang Jinshan, you are the most valuable takeout seller in the world. This should be enough, right? No matter what, if it's not enough, I'll copy it and make as many copies as you want. Just do it like this. Hahaha, Jingjing, your palmistry is quite good. Shen Chenfan, what are you doing here ? Hey , Sun Qianqian, it's such a coincidence. Why are you here? Qianqian. Who is the delivery person ? You know him. My old classmate Shen Fan. Ours is the largest gold shop in the city. You are a delivery person and you are not qualified to leave quickly. Hey, what are you saying? That's not right. You are still wearing the watch I gave you. Last night when you were trying to grab the watch, you gave me a wink. Qianqian, you forgot about the Rolex you have. He gave it to you. Didn't you say you bought it yourself? Boss Qianqian , don't listen to his nonsense. This is a fake watch. I wore it for fun . I don't care about it. Do n't worry about whether the watch is real or fake. I see you are very happy wearing it. If you don't care about it, give it to me. You just have a watch. Broken watch? Who cares about giving it back to you? Hey, I brought a fake watch out to pick up girls, but I have the nerve to go back. These days, there are really all kinds of people. Even you, a food delivery guy, can't even compare to a toe with a small amount of money in your life. Boss, you can tell that you are an adult doing big business, right? You still have some discernment, but I am doing gold business on a large scale, which is not bad, and I only make a few million in a year. Wow , you are making millions a year and you are so careless. Wow, you are indeed a big boss. Boss Qian is not a food delivery guy like you . Come here first. If you have anything to say, hurry up and leave. Don't delay chatting with Boss Qian . In fact, I am today I 'm here to sell gold . Do you want to accept it? How much gold can a food delivery guy have? If it's just a little golden bean, we don't want it. Look at what you just did. You 're quite good at talking. If you really have gold, even if it's just a small gold bean, even if they don't accept it at the gold shop, I'll accept it for you. I'll take it as a pity for you. Oh, thank you so much, boss . The boss is very generous, but the amount of gold I have is a bit afraid of you. This little boss can't afford it. Shen Fan , why are you pretending to be poor ? You have a big tone. How much gold can a delivery person have? At most, it's only 10 grams and 8 grams . This amount of money is just drizzle to Boss Qian. You still I'm afraid he can't afford it. Hmm, boy, how much gold can you put out to pay it back? I can't afford it. Look at the Audi. Even if you put out a gold bar today, I'll give it to you. If I can't put it away, just drive away. This is The Audi is worth hundreds of thousands. You deliver food for a year and you can't even buy a tire. You still dare to question the strength of Boss Qian. It's ridiculous . Speaking of which, I haven't bought a car yet. Although this Audi is a bit inferior , don't give it away for free. Don't give it to me. You even installed it for me, right? Okay, I will leave this Audi here. If you have the ability, you can drive it away. But if you can't get the gold, don't blame me for being rude to you. Okay, Shen Fan, take out your little golden beans and weigh them. Pay some money and leave early. You are so useless because you can't weigh it. You are such a bumpkin. My scale is a gold scale. Even if your little golden bean is only 0.01 grams, I can weigh it for you. Yes, if you have gold, hurry up and take it out. It's already pretty good for a deliveryman to save a little golden bean. Use this. Hahahahaha , I said you are a country bumpkin. You really don't understand anything. This scale is a kilogram scale used to weigh goods . You use it to weigh gold. Shen Fan, can you? No, don't be so embarrassed. I'm blushing for you. My gold really needs to be used in this car. If you don't believe it, look at the gold bricks . You actually have one gold brick and a pound of gold bricks. Just now, boss, you said that no matter how much gold I have, you will take it. You won't regret it Isn't it just a gold brick? The current recycling price is 590 yuan per gram per kilogram, that is, 500 grams, so it's only 295,000 yuan. I can afford it. If you take a gold brick and think of scaring people, it's only 295,000 yuan. Can our boss take the money? Sure enough, he is a big boss and his strength is tough and tyrannical. I'm relieved. There's also a piece of 100 yuan, which is exactly 100 pounds. One piece is 295,000. I'm not good at math. Can you help me calculate how much these are in total? 29.5 million. That's a lot of money. Boss Qian, you have the strength. It shouldn't be a problem if he's so strong, right? How do you pay for this ? I can use cash or transfer. Are you crazy? 29.5 million. How can I have so much money? No, oh, that's such a pity. Then, I'm not polite about this Audi. What's going on? What's going on? Audi Jinjinshan . There are a bunch of Jinshan. Where did this come from? Manager, this golden mountain is his manager. This is Shen Fan 's mine. We are old classmates and we have a good relationship. Now you don't mind me being a food delivery guy . I hate it . I'm just joking with you. Brother Shen Fan, you won't mind, right? This city has pure gold with excellent purity. Little brother, can't you sell it? Sell our store, buy and sell it at a high price , but how much can we pay according to the market price ? The batch of gold bricks is worth 29.5 million, but the little brother has such a large quantity at one time. The purity and fineness are of the best. The price of 30 million and the immediate transfer is really worth so much money. If I had collected 29.5 million just now, I would have won it if I changed hands. 500,000, uh, this price is quite good It's okay, but the money is a bit small, but it doesn't matter. You guys wait here and I'm not allowed to touch my gold bricks . Oh , okay, don't worry. I'm here to guard it myself. No one can touch it. Boss, hurry up and find someone to check it. I'll go back. Ah, okay, there are still more. Boss, hurry up and find someone to take inventory. I will go back. Hey, come on, come on, come on, keep catching, keep catching, ok, you go , there is more, ok, the last box is 8 boxes in total. Each box is 30 million , uh, a total of 240 million. Come on, I will scan your Alipay and you will get 200 million and 4. Ten million yuan, brother Shen Fan, you are really amazing, Shen Fan, no, no, no, no , boss Shen, I was blind just now. I just offended you , oh, I deserve to die, I deserve to die. If there is any business in the future, please give me a lot of support and support, brother. Humph, our brother Shen Fan is just low-key, unlike you, a nouveau riche who earns a few steel coins and is arrogant and still follows us. Brother Fan is comparing things , haha, yes, yes, eh, I was a little bit just now I'm so arrogant, but I hope Boss Shen won't be the same as me. It's okay to talk about misunderstandings. It's just a misunderstanding. Brother Shen, you just took out so many gold bricks . You also have a Rolex worth more than 300,000 yuan in your hand, but you are delivering takeaways. It's about experiencing life, right? It's really low-key. This Rolex watch costs more than 300,000 yuan. Isn't it fake? The goods in the wholesale market cost 10 yuan and 3 yuan and come with free shipping. He said it himself. Are you so stupid that someone who can easily take out so many gold bricks would wear a fake watch ? And I did it before I started this business. I can tell this watch in the watch business is real as soon as I look at it. This watch is real . Hahaha. Sun Qianqian. You just treated this watch as a fake and threw it back to Boss Shen. Now you regret it. You also have today. Brother Shen Fan, can you give me this watch? And I am at home tonight . If you are free, come to my house. Do you miss me ? I miss my watch. Oh, brother Shen Fan. What's a watch? It's you I like. This man , um, I love hearing this . We don't have time tonight. You are very bad. Hey, brother Shen, you still have gold to sell next time. Remember to come. Our price is absolutely fair . Hey, brother Shen Fan, you must come another time. I'm waiting for you, Boss Shen, to remind you. You must be sure. Go slowly, Boss Qin, Shen Fan. I finally found you. What's wrong with Miss Song? My grandpa celebrates his birthday tomorrow. There is an auction today. I want to see if there is anything suitable as a gift for grandpa. Do you want to come with me? I plan to go too. How about we come together ? Get in the car. You are sitting in the car. If you don't feel comfortable, come and take a seat on my electric car. It 's your battery car. It has a 360-degree view. Convertible new energy power, energy saving and environmental protection, come and let me take you for a ride , Ms. Song, you have to hold me tight, I'm about to set off , ah, what's wrong with the car, it's slow, I'm a little scared , oh, you, you just don't go out to play often. You want more in the future. Come with me for a ride so you won't be afraid. Are you dating me ? Well, it depends on your performance whether you are willing or not. If the smelly delivery guy dares to block my way, get out of here. It's him. He's the one who caused me to be like this. Who is this bastard son? Wait for me and we'll get out of the car and kill him. Shen Fan is really an enemy on a narrow road. Let's see who can survive today. I want your life. I want your life. Miss Song, I didn't know you were here , sir, you are so polite. You sprinted a hundred meters away and knelt down for me . This is too much of a courtesy . I didn't bring a red envelope today, otherwise I would give you a big trouble. Hahahaha , Miss Song, why are you here too? Why are you still getting on this food delivery car? I have to ask for your consent for any car I take. No, no, no, no, no, no , no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't mean that. Like father, like son. You two, father and son, kneel down at the door of the hotel today. No one is allowed to get up without my permission. Miss Song Song, this, this, this, this, this I don't want to kneel down , think about it , we really, really want to kneel down. Hahaha , let's go in. They look good. They are Xiaofan. Wait for me. This is the largest auction in Jiangnan. It's all about your hard work. There is actually performance art. Let go, Song Tianxing Song , the second-in-command of the Song family . Not without you It's to celebrate your grandpa's birthday, so I made a special trip to pick out the baby. You know a lot. Mr. Song , my dad and I knew that a baby would appear today . Now we are dedicating it to you. Believe me, your grandpa will be satisfied. All I ask is Mr. Song, can you bring us father and son in and help us kill someone ? That is Mr. Song. Your cousin Song Wanqing also went in just now. Hasn't he always been at odds with you? We have a way to make him look embarrassed . Then you can follow me in. But Baby, if you dissatisfy me You, father and son, are dead. Boom, boom, boom , oh, these are all treasures. Today, I am going to make a fortune. These are just appetizers. This auction will be divided into two sessions. The first one is free for everyone to buy the highest bidder . The second game is the highlight. I heard Various treasures may be found in the sacred stones, and you may lose all your money. It all depends on luck. Hey, isn't this the same as the gambling stone in the short video? It's interesting. Interesting Shen Fan, I can look for it Why don't you kneel outside and sneak in to die? You Song Qian, this is the pretty boy you are looking for. The taste is very strange. What kind of man do you think you are? Why don't you find Song Tianxin , a delivery man, to put your mouth on me? Be clean, you are Song It's so funny that the woman at home is willing to degenerate to find such a food delivery guy. Just like your sick father, don't get too close. Rabies is contagious. Whoever your mother said has rabies , Mr. Song, this piece of shit is me. Shen Fan whom I mentioned to you before Ha, you are Shen Fan. Don't think that you are lucky enough to get along with Song Wanqing . Song Wanxin can't even jump in front of me. As for people like you, I will crush dozens of Song Tianci to death every year. If you dare to touch him, I can't spare you. Now you have to protect such a loser. Let's see how much you can protect Song Wanqian. Tomorrow, at grandpa's birthday party, grandpa will announce the next heir to the Song family. Both you and your sick-brained father There is no chance that the heir of the Song family will definitely be me. When the time comes, I will kill you and you, Shen Fan. I am following Young Master Song, waiting for Young Master Song to become the heir of the Song family, which is also the day of your death. Oh, this is the first time I have seen you being used as a dog for others. You are so excited. Didn't you tell me to take me to find the baby? Come on, tell me where the baby is. The birthday banquet on the street was originally given to my grandfather by Mr. Song . Don't worry, the baby is in here. Mr. Song, do you see it? I'm not 100% sure that the calligraphy of Wang Xizhi is authentic , and I've heard that your grandfather likes the calligraphy of Wang Xizhi the most . If you can take this photo to please him , then your position as the heir to the Song family is guaranteed. Is it the authentic work of Huang Xizhi ? This will definitely make my grandfather happy. Uncle, you are really discerning. This is the trace of Wang Yizhi. It is the heirloom of our family. If you I really like it. 30 million is only 30 million. It's so cheap. I'll buy it. I'll pay 50 million. Shen Fan, you're so brave. You dare to snatch something from Mr. Song. It's because Mr. Song has taken a fancy to it . In fact, you know how to open your mouth and pay 50 million without even looking at yourself. Do you have so much money in your pocket? Things are just for sale. Of course, whoever bids higher and lower bids, don't buy it if you can't afford it. Hey, let me give you a food delivery guy. If you put it on and compare it with me as a gift, you deserve 50 million, right? If I offer one hundred million, Young Master Song is indeed Young Master Song. Yes, it's one hundred million. Now there's no suspense. Shen Fan, if you have money, keep calling. It wasn't you just now. You said, don't buy it if you don't have money. It's already sold for 100 million. Is there anything higher than this price? If you don't have one, I can give you a burn. Don't worry. Isn't it just 100 million? If it's 200 million or 200 million, you can buy it. How dare you , a food delivery guy, to make trouble here with 200 million yuan ? Believe it or not, I'll kill you. Shen Fan, please don't spend 200 million yuan. I can help you pay for it , but this excitement may not be real. Don't fall for it. I'm here, Shen Fan. The price you pay is a treasure. Now it's okay. Song Wanqin, you want to go against me. Oh, Mr. Song, stop wasting your time. I have to rush to deliver the food. It's almost timeout. Do you want to add more money? You won't have no money. Got it Well, if you have no money, just tell me and I will introduce you. Let's go deliver dog food together. How dare you be so arrogant ? Are you sure this is Wang Xizhi's chastity ? If I spent a lot of money to buy a fake, what I lost was a gift and you lost it. It's a gift from the Song Dynasty. Don't worry, there will be no problem. Absolutely no problem. It's Mr. Song and we, father and son, can guarantee that this is definitely authentic. What you said, I said 500 million is a good price. 500 million is a sky-high price. The sky-high price is 500 million. Is there anyone with a higher price than this? Mr. Song is indeed Mr. Song. He is so awesome. I am a food delivery person who only earns 5 yuan for one order . 500 million yuan. I have to give away 100 million yuan. Even if I am I can't give it to you even if I give it to you in ten lifetimes. It can't be compared . I don't want this thing anymore. It 's a deal of 500 million. Hahaha, Chen Fan, don't you like to pretend? Keep pretending. Comparing your financial resources with Mr. Song, you deserve 500 million. You will be a food delivery person in your next life. I admit that I can't compare, but I'm not stupid enough to spend 500 million to buy a fake . If you can't afford it, you will accuse it of being a fake. You, a food delivery person, know what antique calligraphy and painting are? You fart in front of so many people, you bastard, why are you talking nonsense here? This is Wang Xizhi's authentic work, I said He is fake. He is fake. If you don't believe it, bring it here and I will prove it to you. Let him test it. If he can't come up with a reason, kill him. Be careful. It's not easy to prove that he is fake. If he If it's a real plan , it must be unique. But if it's a fake, I'm an idiot from a foreign land. You're looking for death. How dare you do it ? Put the original work of Wang Xizhi in your trash can. Mr. Song, this piece of shit is clearly like robbing the original work. Now kill this piece of shit. Why are you so anxious? Who said I want to rob this thing? I can grab a lot of it in the antique market. Why are there so many ? It's okay, okay, it's just this. It's not right , Master Sun. This is really wrong, it's not me. This is an authentic work. Look at it, it's exactly the same . Maybe this is absolutely impossible. Oh, Mr. Song, you are so arrogant. You actually spent 500 million to buy fakes . Mr. Song, if you like fakes so much, tell me earlier and I will take you to the wholesale market . 10 What do you mean by a dollar ? Wang Xizhi, Yan Zhenqing , Chen Haoyang, there are so many, yes, this is you The baby you mentioned actually dares to sell me a fake. It's a fucking wholesale product from Matsushita Matsushita . There must be something wrong with it. It's absolutely true that there can't be fakes. Damn it, you dare to quibble about your family's true feelings. You are so understanding . My boss has lost 500 million and he still wants to laugh at you. I want you two to let go. I was wrong again. Give me one chance. I only have one chance . One chance. Yeah, let go. Let me go. Let's think of another way. You still have some shitty way. Get me here. They'll kill me. Tie me up. Beat me hard. Don't beat me to death . Wait for me. When it's over, I'll come back to pick you up and take you away . Don't let go. Don't let go . Don't let go. God 's criminal, God's crime, please forgive me. Ah, criminal, you have to die well. You have to die well. Don't be proud of the food delivery. Isn't it 500 million? It's rare that I can afford to lose money . The second game of the trade fair has officially begun. Wow, the main event is here. Right. I heard that there is an ancient Chinese in the second game. If you are lucky with the divine stones you share, you can find a unique treasure that will make you reach the sky in one step. The second game is the real show. Let's wait and see, everyone. The second session of the fair has officially started. The 8 sacred stones behind me come from ancient ruins. It is said that they come from ancient sect ruins. These sacred stones have been fossilized and may be used to prescribe golden elixirs. Of course, they may be nothing at all. The so-called life and death, fate and wealth. Everything depends on luck . Each of these eight sacred stones is worth 200 million , and every The individual purchase limit is one piece to try your luck. You can buy it for 200 million. It's too expensive. It's like gambling with your life. How expensive is it? This kind of treasure is hard to come by. Especially if you are lucky and get a good thing, you will be at the top of your life in an instant. Yes, it's a pity that I really don't have the money. Otherwise, I would have tried it all . What if I'm lucky? It seems very exciting. Are you interested? Of course, I have always been very lucky, so don't be too confident. My dad said that such an event was held once 20 years ago. It only cost 4 yuan , but three people lost their money this time. I have 8 yuan , but I may not be able to get anything good. If I give it a piece , how many chances will I have in my life ? The first beauty in the row is a beautiful woman. I like her. I want the sacred stone in his hand. I want this. The Wang family is really domineering. Hey, the Wang family opens it to see what kind of treasure it is. It also opens our eyes. Yes, the Wang family opens it for us to see. Okay, let's all witness it together. Haha, it seems that the Wang family leader is unlucky and has nothing. Alas, Bai. I'm blind. Two hundred million . Two hundred million are just gone. It seems that the Wang family's luck is really bad. It's normal. If everyone can get good things, it would be better . This is much more exciting than gambling on stones. Gambling on stones is more exciting. One hundred thousand million is worth the sky. This one two hundred million is a bunch of poor people who have no money. Just shut up. You are looking for death. This is Song Lusha. Hey, circumference, circumference, my friend is not sensible. Please bear with me and shut up immediately and call him. Hahaha. It turns out that he is the young master of the Song family. No problem. As you wish . Don't think that you can mess with me just because you are with Song Wanqing. Just blowing a breath can make you crumble and ashes. Now I will show you that I am the son of destiny . Ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, such a bright light. What Panasonic is prescribing must be a treasure. My luck is indeed good . Destiny is here. I congratulate you. This is a life-extending pill that was also very famous in ancient times. It can increase the life span of the person who takes it by ninety-nine and eighty-one days. Although each person can only take it once in a lifetime , it is still very valuable. What can it actually do ? Directly extending one's life is too outrageous, right? And it's a full 81 days. If it's the time of death, this kind of treasure cannot be measured by money. I said destiny is in my hands. Open your eyes and see clearly this kind of treasure. It's impossible to meet someone who is trash in this life. You can only eat it once in your life. If you are a piece of shit, you will be used. Give me one, too . Haha. A magic stone costs 200 million. Where did you, a food delivery guy, get the money ? Haha, you couldn't have eaten Song Wanji's soft rice and asked him to give it to you. Song Tianxin, don't think about others with your dirty thoughts . The money belongs to the jury . It has nothing to do with me. This food delivery guy really has 200 million. I have 200 million in this card. You can check your qualifications. Haha, with Miss Song speaking for you, we won't doubt you. Please choose a piece. Let's talk about it. Shen Nan, you must strive for success. Don't worry, I have always been very lucky. Don't make any excuses later. As soon as Brother Taiyang is gone, you'll be fooling around here and committing suicide because you're afraid that the thing I'm going to fire will kill you instantly. Hey, hey, there's light. There is a light. It has been shipped. Since there is a light, there must be a treasure. I don't know if its value can be as good as Mr. Song's life-extending pill. Hahaha, I really prescribed it for that piece of shit. But I want to follow my life-extending pill. Compared to the dreaming host, what kind of pill is it ? This is a life-extending pill . Its main function is the same as the life-extending pill . It can increase a person's lifespan, but unlike the life-extending pill, it can be taken repeatedly. Each time it is taken, it can increase the lifespan of the user. What kind of life-extending pill can also increase the lifespan ? Can it be taken repeatedly ? Why, Mr. Zong, I haven't finished talking yet. What if this was in ancient times? It's okay that someone can refine this life-extending pill, but now no one can refine it, so this life-extending pill The pill has a huge flaw , that is, a life-extending pill can only extend your life by one day . Hahaha. What kind of treasure do I think it is? It can only increase your life by one day. It can be used by birds for one more day. It is not rubbish . Hahahaha, did you listen ? He said this is also a treasure that can extend life, and it can be eaten repeatedly. Didn't you hear me clearly? It can only extend life by one day. What to do every day? Although it is said to be only one day , it can be reused. If you eat one every day, wouldn't it be equivalent to immortality? Where can you find such a thing ? Look at you, a local dog who has never seen the virtues of the world. You are really greedy and fearful of death. I've made you so happy in just one day, and every day I see where you get so much food and the delivery guy. He's a food delivery guy with short hair, right? He's not very knowledgeable and treats a piece of garbage as a treasure . Hahaha, he's greedy for life and afraid of death. But he's really a top-notch guy . He's so happy just to extend his life for one day. That's right. He's just a bitch. Hahaha, what's wrong with just smoking for one day? Maybe Shen Fan has a way to make it better. Song Wenjie, what are you doing? Are you okay ? There's something wrong with your brain. If he had this ability, why would he deliver takeaways to others every day ? No need to talk nonsense to him. In my eyes, this thing is just unworthy and nothing can compare to it . Just your rubbish and my Yanshou Dan have nothing to do with it. It's incomparable . You can still laugh and perform special skills. Is this hard to do? Is it easy to practice? Even the previous Mr. Song is not as good as him. What kind of treasure has happened ? Is it this ? Is it this? Is this the legendary one ? Thank you for leaving. Is that light just now really that legendary thing? The one that Shen Fan just appeared. I suspect that the elixir is the legendary fake purple elixir. I must go home immediately to get the fake purple elixir. What is that ? Fake Purple Golden Pill only exists in legends. It is said that after taking it, it can increase a person's power by a dozen. It is a real peerless treasure. I won't tell you . I'm leaving first. I will come to pick up my grandpa's birthday party tomorrow. You go together, okay, don't worry, I will definitely prepare something unparalleled in the world for your grandpa tomorrow. It will definitely be busier than Song Tianxing's forced feeding of Shen Fan, okay? We are going to a party. There are many beauties. I Coming right away, coming right away , Qian Meng, you're here . Why did you bring a food delivery boy ? Qian Meng, no one wants you. You have a food delivery boy . You don't feel embarrassed to have a food delivery boy as your boyfriend. Well, you can make Qianmeng my girlfriend, that's my ability. It's useless for you to envy her. I just like her and she's amazing. You don't know it . She's amazing. He delivers food very quickly and never runs out of time. Haha. Ha, yes, I deliver food very quickly and can earn ten or eight yuan more than others in a day. It's pretty cool . Haha, it's hard for everyone to get together. Don't be so serious. Come on, Xiao Meng , stop standing and sit down. Since there are so many beauties, Let us sit down, then sit down. Hey, I told you to sit down. Just sit down. You stinky delivery boy, what qualifications do you have to sit with us ? You are so embarrassed to lick your face and sit down. Look at our Wu Shang now. Open your own live streaming company and make millions selling goods. The people you make friends with are all dignitaries. You can't even buy this latest three-fold mobile phone if you have money. It 's a symbol of identity and status . What's your status? It's worthy of sitting with us . It's really the latest three-fold mobile phone. I've heard that even if you have money, you can't buy it. This is something that only the big shots in the upper class are eligible to own. Yes, this mobile phone is now real. A symbol of power, Wu Qin, you are not only an Internet celebrity now, but also a member of the upper class circles. In fact, making money is the second most important thing is your connections. You know a lot of big people. How much money you make is trivial. This is called circles. It's not like some food delivery people who work like cows and horses for others and have no future in this life . The biggest person he knows is probably the webmaster of the food delivery station. Hey, you are right about this. I will stand with us. It's good to have a long relationship. He's trying to laugh at you in a different way. I know, but what he's saying is the truth. Boss Wu, your tri-fold phone is so handsome. Can you show it to me? This food delivery guy's brain is enlightened. You 're a sensible person who can talk and deliver food. You wish you had known each other earlier. You don't know how cheap it is to beg for help until you step on someone else's feet. Look at you. I feel sorry for you. Come and take it. I allow you to take a photo and post it on Moments to show off . But remember, be careful and don't break it , or I'll kick you down. The texture of this tri-fold phone is really good. It's really high-end. It's a symbol of power and status . Look at me, I look at my phone like an emperor. It's like a memorial. Hahaha, the feeling of a successful person suddenly came up. Plus, my clothes are like a yellow robe. Haha, a yellow robe. Hahaha, what are you doing ? Everyone is laughing at you . Oh, it's okay . Just wait and watch the excitement . But speaking of this, do you want one of this mobile phone ? Of course I do . It's a pity. I have money and nowhere to buy Qianmeng. What are you whispering about? Oh, don't dislike her . Let her watch more. After all, if she misses this opportunity, she will probably never have the chance to touch such a high-end thing in her life. Country bumpkin, listen to this phone. It's the person who associates with dignitaries like me. A low-level piece of trash like you who only has a chance to get it can only take a look and envy me. Is this phone so difficult to get? If I want to get one , I can get a dozen of them . Are you crazy? You even made a dozen of them casually. Take one out and give it to me. Let 's see if you don't believe it. If you don't believe it, I'll show you my fucking phone. Are you crazy ? This phone is broken. Can you afford to pay for it? Don't panic , don't panic. I didn't break it, you bastard. Did you do it on purpose? Ah, look at your chin, isn't it just a mobile phone? Just click on me. I have so many , why don't you really have one? This is for me. Come on, everyone has a share. Don't be polite . How is this possible? You're a food delivery guy. How can you have so many triangular-fingered mobile phones ? I trust my cell phone It took a lot of connections to get it, don't be polite, there are so many mobile phones, there's no use for them, you can take them back as memorials, wow , it's a tri-fold phone, it 's amazing, bro , are you a big shot in the film industry ? You are so awesome. You can give away such an expensive mobile phone as soon as you say it will be given away . Isn't it just a mobile phone? A mobile phone is just for use. It really is a status symbol. But I like this phone. It has a big screen. When I turn it on, I can cut vegetables at home. It works. You, you, you , I see you both. Come here and get one each . We have one too. Thank you, boss. Thank you, boss. Why? They didn't do anything to get one. Even the waiter has one. Do you want one? I, Liu Yi, you won't betray me just for a mobile phone. So what? Shen Fan is better than you, so I can just take it easy You can take out a box of three-fold mobile phones and give each of you one to you. You are so stingy that you let me play with it for a while. You are afraid that I will break it for you. How can you, Shen Fan , look at how generous our Brother Shen is? I gave it to you just because I said I would give it to you. I just want to see how cool you are . The fruit is put on the iron plate. It is your treasure. Brother Shen took out a large handful of you and you guys. Shen Fan, good brother, I also want it. I am really sensible and I will get one for you . Thank you. I like you, brother. I love you to death. Mua . No. Music, haha, why are you calling me Wu? Boss, why don't you say a nice word to Brother Shen and ask him to give you one too? Just say a few nice words and listen. Don't come over and kiss me. I'm not interested in men. Hahaha. How can you and I give it to you? Waiting for Brother Shen to say goodbye. Brother Shen to say goodbye to Shen Fan. Bye bye, brother. Brother Shen Fan, can you add WeChat? Vixen, I'm still here. Why are you so stingy just because you want to poach ? I'm just afraid that my phone won't work . I want to contact Brother Shen Fan at any time and ask him to teach me. Just don't do this to me. This is all my fun and you follow me I'm leaving . I'll come back to you later. Hey, Brother Shen Fan, we haven't added WeChat yet. Oh, don't pull me. Brother Shen Fan, old man, you've made another contribution tonight. Let's go home. Run , run. Stop, don't run. It's your fake Zijindan. Don't fall into their hands. Run, run, little one. Hand over the fake purple elixir honestly , or I will kill you immediately. Don't kill me. Don't kill me. You are talking about the elixir he gave me just now , right? What are you going to do next time the elixir must not fall into their hands? Otherwise , the world will be in chaos. Shut up, I will. Take out the golden elixir for me. Don't play tricks. Don't play tricks. Otherwise, I will not only kill everyone who has anything to do with you, but I will also bring them all in . Give them to me, give them to you. Don't be impulsive. Isn't it just a broken pill ? I'll give it to you. I'll give it to you. Hey , ah, ah, ah , as expected. Fake Purple Gold Pill, hahaha. I guess you are wise, you are indeed a useless waste who is greedy for life and afraid of death. Today I will leave you a dog and useless person. I have already got the thing and run away soon . You are a waste. Hahahahaha. Oops, you beast. Do you know that you will get an extra death penalty? Dan can increase by 60 Years of skill, that wretched man just now has the aura of the Demon Sect. If this thing falls into their hands, the world will be in chaos. How can you hand it over so easily ? Hey, beauty, don't be anxious first. Although I gave him one. But you can still laugh You are actually still smiling like a beauty. I told you that I still have a lot more. Why are you so angry? You beauty, open your eyes. Open your eyes and take a look. We have so much more, I will give it back to you. 10 pills , I'll give you back 10 pills , I'll give you 600 years of power Is that okay? I 'm not dead yet . The deliveryman saved me last night. Unfortunately, I still couldn't keep the golden elixir of the clip. Song Tianxin was infected by the magic gate and the golden elixir of the clip fell into his hands. I can't absolve myself of the blame. Hey, wake up, you, you, you. Coward, you actually handed over something as important as a clip and golden elixir. You are also an ordinary person. In that situation, you handed over things to save your life. I don't blame you. Thank you for saving my life. But this I shouldn't have a chance to repay you in this life. I will definitely repay you in the next life. You are saying this as if you are parting from life or death. Isn't it good? You don't understand that I, as a descendant of Tianmen, treat Jia Zijin as such an important thing and fall into the hands of the people of the Demon Sect. So I have to snatch it back. Even if the odds are against me this time, I will not look back. Thank you for your life-saving grace. If I have a chance in the next life, I will definitely cooperate with you in the Tianmen Demon Sect. Put aside this, I have to live and die for these things for a long time . Is it true? How come you have so many family lists ? Is it as rare as you say that a unique treasure that you have to steal is as rare as a chocolate chip? In my opinion, it is no different from chocolate beans . But you think it is something that everyone in the world wants to steal even if they break the head. There is no difference between chocolate beans and who are you ? Hey, I'm just a food delivery guy. You must be a peerless expert who hides his identity. Please help me get the fake purple gold elixir that fell into the hands of the Demon Sect people last night. Long Xing is willing to follow. You can do it even if you are a maid serving tea and water . Are you crazy? Shen Fan, we should set off to grandpa's birthday banquet. I know, Master, are you going to Mr. Song's birthday banquet? Please take Long Xing with you. I am willing to ride for you. Shen Fan, why haven't you seen me all night? There is another beautiful woman beside you. My personality charm is nonsense. The master is indeed attracted by his personality charm. I am willing to be his maid for the rest of his life. She relies on people . Could it be that you drugged him? Hey, don't call me an expert. It sounds awkward. Just call me Shen Fan. Okay , master. Welcome. Welcome. It's really lively inside. Of course, our Song family is the grandfather of an ancient family in Jiangcheng. And his status is even more top-notch. His birthday banquet can be attended by everyone. Big figures from all over the country can't be compared on ordinary occasions. Didn't you tell me to leave Shen Fan's reception to me? You can rest assured that I will satisfy you . I will satisfy my grandpa. If you don't know how to use idioms, don't use them indiscriminately. I'm still satisfied. I was relaxed yesterday. Tianxing got the longevity pill, we will definitely not be able to compare with him. This is the end of life. Second uncle Song Tianxin has an expert here today, you will definitely die. He actually got involved with Longqin. So what? A loser and a defeated subordinate together are no match for me. Tian Xin said that you were hanging out with a delivery boy recently. I still don't believe it. I didn't expect that you were so bold as to bring him to the old man's birthday banquet to interrogate my second uncle. He, he, he, he, you brought a takeout deliveryman to the old man's birthday party, it's embarrassing for our entire Song family. Dad, I think my uncle is useless and doesn't take the Nine Turns Red Eye Pill. Song Wanqing, who will die immediately, is even more regretful for finding such a man who delivers food. What better to do with keeping such a person ? Just ask grandpa to remove the father and daughter from the family. Song Tianxin, do you dare me to say it wrong? What day is today? Look at the food delivery guy standing next to you. He is wearing such clothes and carrying a broken box. He is afraid that others will not know his identity and will be embarrassed. So why is the food delivery guy not stealing? What's the matter ? And when I give you birthday gifts later, you can still ask Mr. Song to treat me as a guest of honor. Hey, you're the only one who sent me an imperial edict. You're a food delivery guy and you didn't give anything. Why don't you go back to me or deliver food to my grandpa in the future? Don't hug me. Don't talk about it now that you two have prepared your birthday gifts. Dad, don't worry. I have prepared a life-extending pill for grandpa that can extend his life by 81 days. This is a life-extending pill that has been lost for a long time. It's a good thing. Grandpa is getting old and needs such elixirs. It's very good for you, Wan Qian. I asked Shen Fan to prepare it for me. Isn't it such an important birthday banquet for Wan Qian? Are you afraid of letting such a deliveryman help you prepare the birthday banquet? You want to piss grandpa off to death. Like father, like daughter. Your dad is a sick man, and you are also a bastard who can't stand up to the wall . You still want to compete with me for the position of heir . Send me flowers. Haha. Haha , send me my congratulations on the birthday of Mr. Song Ben. I wish you happiness as long as the East China Sea. Thank you very much for coming to attend my birthday banquet. Today, my Song family is really prosperous. It is our blessing that Mr. Song can attend your birthday banquet. On behalf of your Nan Zhang family, I present a jade carving of the King of Heaven and a longevity star to the old man to wish you success every year. Oops, this is actually the jade carving with an animal heart. I heard that the Zhang family specially photographed it from abroad. It cost more than 400 million to come here . The Zhang family in southern Fujian is strong. Every time I give it, it is a gift. Thank you to the head of the Zhang family, Mrs. Song. I have a dragon beard. The Wu family has nothing but medicinal materials. I will give you a 300-year-old wild ginseng. I wish Mr. Song will live longer than the immortal pine in Nanshan. Wild ginseng that is blessed with longevity and longevity and 300 years of life is not something you can buy with money. As expected, only the Wu family, a family of traditional Chinese medicine, can get it. Thank you, Mr. Wu, Mr. Wu, later. Can we have a few more drinks? Please sit down, dad. Tianxin also has a portion to give later. I heard that Song Tianxin and Song Wanqing of the Song family are vying for the position of heir. Whoever can please the old man at this birthday banquet will basically win. It's a fucking sacred ticket, so why bother talking about it ? It must have been decided by our Song Shaoying. I advise you to get out of here now to avoid being embarrassed. 13 Otherwise, why are you afraid of letting him pretend for a while longer? Don't comfort me when he cries later. We can't come up with anything that can compare with his life-extending pill. Don't worry. My old buddy and I are here later. I'll just call you and get ready to do it. Just be the heir to the Song family. Well, old man, it seems that you are going to lose today . The birthday gift I prepared for you is a pill. That's right. The pill is called the Life-Extension Pill. It has only one effect: it can extend the life of the person who takes it. 81 days later, this happened It's the Yanshoutang. It's actually the Yanshoutang. I heard that this medicine has been lost a long time ago. What Mr. Song cherishes most at this age is his lifespan. This magical medicine that can extend his life by 81 days is simply worth a trillion yuan in wealth to Mr. Song . Given the status of the Song family, no matter how valuable and precious things are, they are nothing to Mr. Song , but this life-extending pill will definitely please the old man. It is indeed a life-extending pill. The quality is also very good. Wow . Grandpa is very satisfied with the birthday gift you gave me . Wu Jiang, you have raised a good son. The main reason is that this child has a filial heart. Hahaha, iron heart. Later, you can go to the ancestral table and sit with me and your father at the same table . so he goes directly to the main table. Yes, Mr. Song is so powerful. Once he can sit at the head table , it means that the Song family will definitely inherit that position . Hey, are you ready ? Why pretend to be big? Mr. Song, Wanqing and I have a birthday gift to give to you. Wanqing has you today on such an important day. What's wrong with this food delivery guy? Wanqing still doesn't mention this? Just throw this embarrassing thing out . Song Wanjie, don't make grandpa angry again. Don't embarrass the Song family on such an important day. Haha, why is this takeaway delivery guy here and giving birthday gifts ? Isn't it obvious that he looks down on us, Mr. Song? Shifan, let's go first, forget it, I won't After arguing , let's stop. It's yours. No one can take it away from you . Isn't it just a life-extending pill? Look at how I crush him. Why crush me? You haven't woken up yet. If the gift you gave me exceeds my gift, I will not only give it to you. The position of heir is given to Song Wanqing , and I even knelt down and called you dad, since you want to recognize me as you so much. Dad, then you, your disobedient son, I will reluctantly accept you. What Mrs. Song Song Tianxing gave you is just a life extension pill, which can only extend life by 81 days. And each person can only take it once , and I want to give it to you. It's an unlimited life-sustaining pill, hahahahahahaha , I have it. What's the trouble ? You're mentally ill, aren't you? This is indeed a false name pill , but it can only extend your life for one day. Who else would care about you except a person who is greedy for life and afraid of death? It's really embarrassing that you have the nerve to take it out. Hey, he might even take this. Treat this thing as a treasure. If you don't know it yourself, forget it. Don't do it in public. It's embarrassing. If you don't want to go to trial, let's go first. This thing is really worthless . Thank you for your kindness, young man. I'll take your things and go back. Seeing that my grandpa is not there, he doesn't even want to take them. Now I know it's embarrassing. Come on, that one of the things that shouldn't be put on the countertop is garbage, so why not? Two pills, three pills or more? Huh, I didn't expect you to have any more, but so what. Two or three pills only extend your life by two or three days. It's the same rubbish . Two pills, three pills are still rubbish . What if there were more? It's jelly beans. If you have the skills, take out 100 of them. Maybe it would be interesting to give them to him. It's a food delivery guy . Where can I get 100 boxes of life-sustaining pills? You think so highly of him. Well, you're right . Sorry , I'm just a food delivery guy. I'm very poor and don't have any good packaging. I can only use plastic bags. Pretending to be this and this This big bag of life-sustaining pills, I'm afraid there are hundreds of them. This life-sustaining pill is rubbish. These two or three life-sustaining pills are accumulated. This bag is a peerless treasure. What, you just said 100 pills? I don't think so. Do you know how many I have here but I'm too lazy to count them? But don't worry, I have as many as you want . How is it possible that there are so many life-extending pills ? There is such a big box of this. How much is the life extension for this car ? Oh my god, aunt, these are life-extending pills. Yes , they are real. These are all real. Yeah , so many lifespans have to be extended How long will it last? How many years will this add? Hey hey, how about it ? Now my birthday gift is on the table, oh, it's on the table, it's on the table. Shen Wan, you are the most important noble person in our Song family. You and Wanqing will be there later. Sit next to me at the main table , I want to do it myself Pour the wine, thank you for not being in a hurry, and being alone is not important. Everyone can come and get a bag, but there is a prerequisite. It is not too demanding. Just call him a trash. 18 You are really stupid. Everyone present is a person of status and status. How is it possible You , oh, you, stop talking nonsense, you are a piece of trash , Master Zhang, you , oh, hey, I scolded him, my new brother, please give me a bag, so I can talk it over, and give it to you. Wow, is it really the next one? Song Tianxing, you piece of trash. You are a scumbag in front of Brother Shen. Go away, you and I , bah, hahahaha , you did well, I'll give you two bags , hahahaha , give me less, give me less, I won't have enough for you later. You, you trash, don't delay me in getting the virtual pills. Oh, waste , hey , waste, why do you think so too? Haha , Song Songchao, I am different from them. I am your most loyal younger brother, so you are discerning. Don't worry about that one. As his most loyal younger brother, I will scold him. Do you need to take two more bags? Hey, you, you. What are you, you fucking loser? Don't stop me from living a long life . Hey, you will forgive me, right? You trash, you are the best. I will give you three dozen hahaha, okay , hey, brother Xie Shen , oh, that's great, haha , you, Shen Fan, I will crush you to ashes. Shen Fan, Shen Fan, don't give it away, don't give it away, it won't be enough for me later. Hey, Shen Fan, can you give me all the remaining life-extending pills? I can marry Wanqing. What should I say to your grandfather ? Wanqing, Shen Fan is so outstanding at a young age. It is your blessing to marry him. No , it is the blessing of our Song family. I will immediately declare that the heirs of our Song family are the two of them. In the future, our Song family will all depend on you two. What can you do with your heart? He also gave you a life-extending pill. What a life-extending pill. Can that piece of junk compare to Shen Fan's life extension game ? Let you choose which one you choose. Of course I will choose Shen Fan. You are too awesome. No, I don't agree that the choice of Song Tianxing's successor is decided by you . Shut up, Grandpa, didn't you tell me that the position of heir would be left to me? That's because your performance has disappointed me. I told you that Song Tianxin's position as heir should be stopped . Just follow your father and become one. I think the rich man is not bad It's over. It's over now. Hey, Shen Fan, this is all because of you. I had everything in the Song family at my fingertips. Damn it. Hey, this is what you said. If you lose, you will give up the position of heir. You also said that you will kneel down and admit it. I'm a father, uh, hurry up and come over now, my big son, hurry up and kowtow to your father. Hey, you're a loser and you want me to kneel down for you. Yesterday, I spared you. Today , if you come here and die on your own , then you can't blame me. Song Linxin. simple You are absolutely crazy. I am Song Linxin . What are you going to do ? I want this loser to kneel down. Shen Fan, if you have the ability, don't hide behind a woman. Come out and kneel down. Song Tianxin, I will never allow you to hurt her . Hum, you only have one gun and I am. If you have four guns, what are you going to fight with me? Who said we only have one gun ? Hmm , how about now we have 6 guns ? Is that enough? Shen Fan, I admire you so much . An expert is an expert . It 's really amazing . It's actually a fake purple elixir. One can increase by 6 With 0 years of skill, how could the fake purple elixir be so bad in your hands ? Shen Fan, please leave quickly. Song Tiexin scolded the Jiazi golden elixir. No one is his opponent . Hahaha. I want to run . Hey, how are you? Are you seriously injured? He ate it. I can't beat him with the fake purple elixir Hey, stop it. Shen Fan, I will kill you today. No one can save you. Hey, you just took a fake purple elixir and you are so arrogant. Is this thing such a coincidence? 60 years of skill is extraordinary, but now no one can match him. Shen Fan you Run, run, run , why run? I also have this thing. What 's there? You loser , didn't you give it to me for survival? Why are you still biting ? It turns out that the masked man last night was you. I said, why are you so far away? The smell of scum smelled from the distance , so I hurriedly blocked the things for you. When you leave, if you take one pill, your power will increase by 60 years. If I take 10 pills, wouldn't it be 600 years? It's impossible, impossible, impossible. There will be so many fake deaths Oh , yes, old man, do you want it? Yes, look at me, this girl is absolutely crazy now. I'd better get two pistols to defend myself. You, you, are you a human or a ghost? Where did you get these things? You want to know. Kneel down now. Come over here and call me good daddy, and I will tell you how proud you are, right? It's too early for you to be happy now. You are a member of the Demon Sect. But Song Tianxin is actually a member of the Demon Sect. Song Tianxin, when did you join the Demon Sect ? I didn't want to Forgot about him but this dog Things forced me to restore the Demon God in advance. Now he has to die. Song Tianxing and I, Tianmen, are not dead yet. I can't even think about retreating. Hum , my defeated general. What are you going to do with me? Hum . I didn't kill you last night, but I actually made you improve so much. Only an expert can help me today. It's your death day, right? You think I really can't beat you. All I have to do is eat this fake purple elixir. All of you will die, especially your Christmas . It turns out that this is how it feels to be invincible. Come on, please spare me . Spare me. Just don't want to die Spare me, Su Tianxin, and you too. What will Aqian do today ? Kill him. I will throw him into the Song family prison and let him die. It sounds good to you. Everything is finally over. Shen Fan, you really gave me too many surprises in life. Life is full of twists and turns. No one knows what tomorrow will bring. Young man, I am very satisfied with your performance. Cherish the moment, seize every day, be a good person, and never forget your original intention . Seniors, seniors , are you seniors ? Senior Shen Fan, what are you talking about? Didn't you hear it just now? Forget it, it's okay. I just want to ask you when is the appropriate date for our wedding? I hate it.