Mr. Chen, I hope you will continue to work hard. It's great that my team and I are full of confidence. Please tell me what time your flight will be . It's almost two o'clock . You can't make it . I'm sorry to bother you personally to take me to the airport. It's okay. I like to drive. So I sell cars and sell good cars. Are our cars very competitive in the Chinese market? What's the score ? Yes, sister-in-law, what's the matter? Which hospital is it? OK, I'll be here soon. I'll know in the Chinese market. Let's go! This old lady is so dangerous. How can she go out on the street alone at such an old age? Sorry, I didn't hear where her family is. What's going on with my sister-in- law? Doctor, how is my dad's injury? Hui Xin suffered a comminuted fracture. You're here and I'm so anxious. I have something to do in my company. You hurry up and go. I'm here. You go. My sister-in-law works here. Then you take care of him here . Come on, let's go. Doctor , doctor, is my father's injury serious? He can't catch up with this shift. The plane is troublesome. You said you are really fine . What kind of quilt are you drying? I think the weather is good. Then you call me and I will dry it for you. This is good. You see, this quilt has not been tanned and it has rolled down the stairs . I regret that Lele is about to take the exam. Then you should go back quickly. Jiping's mother can't live without people because of her illness. How can it be okay ? My mother is in a nursing home now and there is an old lady who specializes in taking care of her. It's very dangerous on the road. Where are you going? I'm looking for Qiu Min. I'm looking for Qiu Min. OK, okay. I'll take you there. Come and find Qiu Min. I'm looking for Qiu Min. I 'll take you there. That's it. Take care. This is my business card from Hong Kong. If you come to Hong Kong and have anything to do, call me. Please take care and have a safe journey. Goodbye, goodbye. Hurry back. Lele, school is over soon. School is over. She is such an adult. She knows she will go home. Ji Ping has finished work and you are not here at the headquarters. It's okay. There are people coming, so you don't have to. If you stay here, go back quickly and call your brother and ask him to watch over me. He can't be blamed. Sometimes, think about it. Someone like your mother-in-law is fine . She 's just confused and doesn't know anything. Don't look at me. My mother-in-law is like that. She also has old friends. I don't believe she can make a friend. She ca n't recognize anyone. Isn't it true that she often calls Jiping's name wrong? My mother has someone who she remembers clearly. Jiang Qiumin's yard. Is there anyone named Qiu Min here ? Yes, yes, look for me. Your name is Qiu Min, right? Yes, my name is Qiu Min. I am a taxi driver. I will bring a passenger to find you , right? You go out and have a look. Thank you very much. It's okay. Come on , come on, be careful. It's coming again, it's coming several times in a month. Did Youfang miss me? You're so nice. I'm so glad you came. Slow down. Obedient, Pingping. You're after school and you forgot to wear a red scarf. When you see me, you call Pingping. I'll be her son. Do n't she think you are very kind? Don't, do n't, don't be so kind . The fare for her one time trip is only fifty fifty round trip, just one hundred . I wonder why she, an Alzheimer's person, ran away from the nursing home and didn't go to other people's places . We are here on the list. Sisters who have been here for decades, you missed me. Okay , stop doing this. Sit down and I will rub my hands for you. Qiu Min, you are not happy, right? He doesn't understand. It's his business. Qiu Min, don't be angry. I'm sorry, Miss. Hello, Xiao Zheng. My name is Wang Yuening. My car was involved in a rear-end collision . Come and deal with it. Why don't you call me immediately ? Isn't it because your car is not insured? It shouldn't be. This is a good car. Sorry, Miss. I have an emergency at home . Can you? No, no, I haven't finished my words yet. Everything should be done according to the procedures . Wait for the traffic police to make the accident determination. The insurance companies of both parties will sign and confirm. You can come over and drink again . I can't hear you on the phone. I'm coming, I'm coming to drink from you. Hey, yes , yes, Dean Wu . Don't worry, don't worry. I didn't tell you what kind of nursing home you are. How do you care for the elderly? It's your duty. You always let people throw you away. I tell you, send someone to pick you up immediately. The sooner the better , otherwise I will kill you. I'll send you to the public security bureau. What are you doing? Master, master, calm down, calm down. Why does she take you every time? Send her back. How dare you sit down? Sit down. No one is allowed to go out. What are you doing? Old Kang , look , look, look, old. Kang, what are you doing? This is all money. Throw it into the water. Master, master, master, master. Calm down, calm down. My wife is a good ass. Turn your elbows outward. Give the money to others and throw it over there. My tone, I've endured it for a long time, I , you, what are you doing, you bad master, master, master, have you gotten through? When will it arrive ? If I don't call the insurance company , aren't you wasting my time? Didn't the lady just have a car accident? What about you? That's my rights. I won't affect your rights. I'll compensate you. I'll compensate you in full. Isn't that okay? You have the final say. You have to have an accident appraisal . Sorry, I'll answer the phone. Hello, Lele 's dad. Come back quickly. Something happened at home. There's a fire. What's going on? The firetrucks are here. Come back quickly. Okay, I'll rush back right away. I'm really in an emergency. Please call me quickly. Here's my bank card. I don't want to take it. Why are you giving me these? Take it . Tell you the withdrawal password 527123. This is my business card. How do you want to compensate? You can figure it out. Answer the phone. Hey, I am, I'm sorry. I have something to do . I'll come over here. Come over here. Brother, please go back quickly. Leave the factory. If you don't have anyone else, leave it to me. Well , I'll come when I'm gone and I'll be free. You go, you'll hurt me to death. She is so cruel. What's wrong, Aunt Qiu Min, Uncle Hui Xin, and Uncle Kang ? Youfang is at my place. You go quickly. My mother is at your place. Where is she at my house? Xu Ming, accompany her, go quickly. Let's talk about it. Why is there no one at home? I 'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you, thank you. Hello, who is Dean Wu? My name is Chen Jiping. She forgot her cell phone again. My mother got lost again. Do you know where it is, Aunt Qiu Min's house? Mom is a little scared if you say a word. Why are you today? I didn't bring my mobile phone. What happened to Qian? Didn't my dad fall? I rushed to the hospital in a hurry. I left my mobile phone at home in a hurry . The house almost caught fire. Do you know? Really, what's the result? Lele, call me. I rushed home, but it didn't catch on fire. Now the house is in a mess . I'm sorry, Huixin, can you think more clearly in the future? Either I forgot to bring my keys, or I forgot to pick up my mobile phone. Sometimes I didn't turn off the ignition. It's all these things all day long. I still can't remember them? This is the only thing you need to live in . This is just this little thing . Do you think it's easy? Bring a cell phone. Bring a cell phone. Please never make the same mistake again. Okay, okay. I know. Don't you want to know who made Uncle Kang's head covered in blood ? Don't you? The big bad guy is our mother who smashed Uncle Kang with a wine bottle. Qiu Min cried. Lu Hua and Xu Yian. Come and have a cup of coffee. What are you talking to yourself about? Oh my god. It turns out that the person chasing me today is Lu. The general representative of the China Region is so dramatic, right? Jiang Qiumin, these are your good sisters, these are your good friends, look at how hard she beat me, I, I, will sue her, Master, Master, are you really going to sue her? No matter how you arrest her and lock her up, it's no use . She doesn't know anything. Then I sue her son, I sue her daughter-in-law, I sue her whole family. It's great to have money. You can just tell others your credit card and password. I'm sure you won't comply. Don't you regret pushing someone into a hurry? You know it's not easy to reflect on yourself. Why am I so blind ? I should have known that he is not an ordinary person just by looking at what kind of car he drives . Why do you think I'm causing trouble for him? Yeah, it's not that serious. You are just being unreasonable and unforgiving . I shouldn't. If I had known that he had such a big background , I would definitely show my kindness and show my kindness. What are you laughing at? You don't understand what Lu Hua is doing in China. How big is the advertising volume in a year? How many advertising companies are hoping to get this big client? I finally had the opportunity to meet such a big boss today , and I am actually Fang Jianguo. I am just a pig. I hate myself for being such a big fish . Ning, look at how this photo of mine turned out. Look at the expression I captured. Are you annoyed? But I'm not in the mood to look at your photos. What's so annoying? You didn't offend a rich man just because you took a wrong look. Man, money is nothing important . I don't value money that much. What I value is his position. He has such an important position. If I can get his favor, forget it. Even if I say it, you won't understand . I understand you. Yes. To be famous, to be successful, to be recognized by others. I want to be successful. I want others to recognize me. Because this society gives more opportunities to people like this, why don't you go out and go over there before going home? Where are we going now? A nursing home . Now I want to send my mother back to the nursing home. What do you want me to do? Chen Jiping, please pull over and pull over . Please pull over and let's go back on our own. Don't mess around. I'm not messing around . Ye Huixin, don't make trouble unreasonably. Why am I being unreasonable ? If you send your mother to a nursing home, that's called being unreasonable. I Didn't you just throw it away and ignore it for three days? I couldn't help but send you there. Isn't that asking for trouble? That's right. Ye Huixin, you are talking more and more vulgarly now. No matter how vulgar I am , I know I can't ignore myself. Mom, I didn't care where you sent her. That's what I called control. I knew you just wanted to spend two dollars to have a relaxing time. You said you still love her or not. Mom, I didn't say you didn't. Why do you have to send her to a nursing home? There is no place to live at home and no one cares about it. Don't think she is sick. She doesn't understand anything. She will be sad too. She will be sad too . Don't make it so tragic . You are just here to get excited. I think you have watched too many TV series. You, Chen Jiping, you. Why are you so cold? She is your mother who gave birth to you, raised you and raised you . She is sick. Why don't you know how to feel sorry for her? I am hungry, hungry , hungry. Mom will be home soon. There will be food when we get home . Stop making noise . Ah, I am not as indifferent as you said. I am just thinking about a person. When he grows up, he should have his own home and his own world. No matter how big his world is , it is given by his parents . People cannot forget their roots. I know, I know, let's talk about it now. Lele It's time to take the exam. Look at our mother's state. Lele, can she not be affected? You just think about your daughter. The children will see it. So do it now. Don't point at her. When she grows up, she will be filial to you. Now turn around and send us back. Hello, Mr. Xu , I am Wang Yuening, the owner of the car that had a small car accident this afternoon. Can you please contact me after hearing the message? Thank you, bye. You still have to go out. Your father and I are going to the hospital to see grandpa and grandpa Kang. Just make this mess. What can you tell me ? Your grandma is a mess. Grandma is not a mess. She is a confused grandma. Plus the house was almost burned down. It's more than a mess. That's called a disaster. Okay, okay. Go and come back. Why did you bring the wine? The doctor said, my dad. You can't drink. Why are you making him greedy? Isn't this Lele watching over my grandma at home? Come on, let's go, let's go, okay, okay, let's go , let's go, watch over my grandma. Uncle Kang Qiu Min, Aunt Ji Ping, is here to see you. Aunt Kang Uncle Qiu Min, this is a gift. Your Uncle Kang, I'm so sorry for coming here with a weapon . Look at my mother, she is. Your mother was too cruel. This bottle lasted more than twenty injections. This is the bill. Xu Ming , it doesn't matter. We should pay. We should pay . Money is a trivial matter. There are some things that money cannot solve. Let me see if I am reporting the crime. Old Kang, please stop interrupting . Your mother is really powerful . Uncle Kang, I'm really sorry. My mother, just treat her as a child. Good child, then she must have an adult. It doesn't matter, Uncle Kang. Let's do our best. I will use my greatest strength to compensate you. I hope I can turn big things into small things. Just like this, Uncle Kang, if you say no , just take 50,000. Old Kang, what are you doing? Are you blackmailing me ? What is blackmailing? Look at this, my brain has become so virtuous all of a sudden. I am just being polite to her. I want to report him. He has lost 50,000 yuan, right? Uncle Kang, please give me one tomorrow. I'll call you the money from the account number . Hello, Mr. Xu . It's Wang Yuening. I'm calling to tell you that you don't have to pay for the repair money. My insurance company will be responsible for it. I also have your card with me. So, Are you thinking of calling me back? I'll wait for your call. Say goodbye. Don't be busy. Go to bed early. I know Hui Xin. You and Aunt Qiu Min are familiar with each other. You must settle this matter . Don't let Uncle Kang make this matter a big deal. Just say it. No matter how old a person is, he is still an old child. Don't worry about his troubles. Didn't you hear what I just told you? He is older now and has nothing to do. He has plenty of time to make trouble with you. I'm afraid if this matter gets too big . Yes, no matter what, I still use money to shut his mouth. I don't want him to make things worse . Recently, the company wants to promote me, so I don't want anything to affect me at this time . You don't know what those foreigners want. When promoting someone, your credibility is important. This letter also includes your personal family situation. All in all, I don't want him to know what's going on with my mother. Isn't it said that foreigners like to send their parents to nursing homes? I'd rather send them to nursing homes. I 'm not afraid anymore. I'm just afraid . I don't want them to know what kind of disease my mother has . I don't want them to know that there is such a gene for Alzheimer's disease in our family. Anyway, it's not honorable. I don't want my mother's disease to affect my promotion. What are you doing? Go, my dad lives over here. Let 's go, my dad's ward is over there. It 's already so late. It's been a long day. Go back and rest early. Chen Jiping, you're already at the hospital. Can't you stop by and see my dad some other time? Why don't you change it ? Forget it. You're not even here. You can still make a special trip to see my dad. I said don't be too realistic. How about you make a special trip just because Uncle Kang can affect your future? My dad can't influence anything, so you can just stay away from Hui Xin. I'm not what you think. I'm really not what you think. I want to say that men have to face many things. Women can just take care of the family. Men and women are different. It doesn't matter who they are. No matter what women have to face, I think the family is the most important thing . Because we are family members, we are not so anxious. We look up and don't look down. We see each other every day. Love must be timely. The biggest regret in life is that one child wants to be filial. I'm not here, Mr. Xu. My name is Wang Yuening. I haven't received your call yet . Your card and watch are still with me. Please contact me when you have time. Goodbye . Why is this happening again? The year before last, you said that because I am a woman, you are afraid that I will get married. I had a baby and was not interested in working, so I wasn't promoted. I said last year that I wanted to expand into the Hong Kong market , so I was promoted to a Hong Konger. It turned out that she was also a woman and her English was not as good as mine. I accepted all of these. Why didn't I get promoted this year? Xiao Wang, listen to me and explain to you the whole company. I work the hardest. I've been married for so many years and I don't even dare to have children. The company keeps asking me to be promoted every year. It's not me who gets promoted every year . You guys are too bullying, right? Xiao Wang, listen to what I have to say about this promotion. Xiao Zheng is because he got a big customer to sign a long-term contract , so I can also sign a long-term contract. I also know the big customer. I know the boss of Luhua, Luhua. Luhua Automobile, of course, is Luhua Automobile, not you. I don't believe it. I really know Lu Hua's boss. Look, boss Lu Hua is calling. So why don't you answer the call? Is it true that if I sign a contract with a major client company, I can be promoted? You answer it first. Hurry up and answer it. Mike, what do you want from me? Miss, it's obviously you who came to me. I don't know you at all. Your messages have blown up my mobile phone. Who are you? Where did you get my phone number ? Mike, yes, what about that card of yours ? It's time to pay you back, you're crazy, your watch is stuck, I told you not to call again, otherwise I'll sue you for harassment , okay , but you're treating me, anyway, I haven't touched this mobile phone number with the money in your card. I will deactivate it. I 'm sorry. I have something personal to say to him. OK, OK. Go ahead and do your work. Don't turn off your phone. I beg you. Answer the phone. Why do you have to turn off your phone? I'm not a bad person. I just want to succeed. Why do you have to turn off your phone? Why don't you guys want to help me ? Yuening, where have you gone ? I've been looking for you. What happened? Did you forget that we have a meeting in the afternoon to discuss the packaging and marketing of the new book? I'm not in the mood. You are the boss in the future. Don't leave this kind of small case to me. Let others do it. Yuening, why are you like this? I won't accept this . It's wrong for those who are capable to do more work. Now the capable people are taking advantage of others to work more and not doing any work for themselves. Yue Ning, where are you going ? Why don't I accept a case involving two people? Who would read this kind of book? I hate this kind of people who are so full that they have nothing to do and moan all day long. Is it necessary for her to give some advice on such broken things between husband and wife ? I said you, Teacher Ji, are really sorry . It doesn't matter. I think what she says is quite interesting. What should I say? Xiao Wang's work ability is first-rate , but her personality is great . Teacher Ji, don't worry . I'll find another colleague for your new book and marketing plan. Why find another one? I think she's quite suitable. But don't worry, I can do it. Aunt Qiu Min went to bed . She just went to bed . Why are you bringing something with you ? Come on , let's go out and have a good walk . How is Aunt Qiu Min, Uncle Kang? It's fine. It's just a little flesh wound. That's fine. Can you leave Youfang at home alone? How can I leave her alone at home? I asked her to be a caregiver. What kind of care is it? You need to drink more water, drink more water, drink more water, drink more water, come on. You have to be obedient, please. You have to learn to be good, okay, okay, let me drink, but when I drink, I can't be so naughty. Look at how you broke your legs like this. Okay , okay, you really want her to be a caregiver. She needs someone else to take care of her. Let them go in often. Look at her, you, it's not easy. In fact, isn't that what Aunt Qiu Min is like in this life? When she was young , she relied on her parents. When she gets old, she relies on her children. I don't think so. I think that when I get old, I have to rely on my wife, my wife, my friend, my wife, my husband, my wife, my friend, my wife . He is the three treasures of the old man. This old friend can have this wife. It depends on the person, right? I think the wife is the most important, just like you and Uncle Kang . Look how good you two are. You and Uncle Kang are me. This is the goal of struggle. It will be great for the two of you to grow old hand in hand for the rest of your life. Huixin, I tell you, this marriage is like a bankbook. Only when you save it will you be able to save it. What can you save? Understand, trust, cherish and respect . This is the talent of marriage. Consummation , and two people have to save together, otherwise the other person won't be happy. Qiu Min, Jiang Qiu Min, saw that he didn't come to mention it . Where did he run? Come on, go in, darling, I can't drink anymore. Hurry up and drink water. What's wrong? What's wrong? Drink water. Ah, my mother-in-law keeps asking me to drink water. My stomach is bloated and I can't drink anymore. Mom, Mom, I won't drink anymore. I heard that it's not helpful. Help me to go to the toilet. Come on, come on. Dad, be careful. Be careful. You have to be a good mother and wait for yourself. Son, if you are a good boy, I won't believe it. I can't find you. Luhua's Hong Kong headquarters should also have a branch in Beijing. That's right . If I have time in the next two days, I will go to the headquarters to see how many days you plan to go in these two days . Mr. Chen, don't worry. Mr. Chen, how much is your card ? Kang Weiyi, Xiao Zhang . By the way, has a lady called the company in the past two days to ask for my insurance company? There is no one at the insurance company either . Hello , what's the matter with you ? Hello, I'd like to find you, Mr. Xu. Sorry, it's impossible without this person . Maybe you don't know. Otherwise, you ask Mr. Mike, Mr. Xu, and Xu Yi'an. I've been in the company for a long time. Everyone in the company knows. It's true. There is no such person as you mentioned . I am not here to sell you. Mr. Xu has something very important with me. I believe he must be waiting for me. There really is no such person. Our boss's surname is Chen. Xu, you have found the wrong one , Chen. Who are you waiting for? No, no, Miss, Miss, Miss, Miss, you can't go in . I really have something important. Just let me go in and look for you, okay? You really can't come in . What's going on? It's so messy. Look, if you go in these two days. A lady or someone from an insurance company came to see me. Did you leave her company phone number ? I just left her a business card. I didn't insist on asking , but you didn't let me in. I really want to see him. If there is something urgent, we really don't have one here. Ah, can you please understand us? I 'm sorry that you are affecting our work like this. Please come back. Mr. Chen is fine. The woman found the wrong door. I guess she is a salesperson. What's wrong? We are also salesmen. Selling cars is not salesmanship. Do you remember this? If she calls, tell her that I'm on a business trip and ask her to return my things and put them at your place. Your company is really weird , why don't we let people in? It's inexplicable and she 's not telling lies . I can't stand Mr. Chen. Let's advertise next year. The budget has indeed increased a lot. I can definitely find another company to plan Uncle Kang. Here is the remittance slip. Look at how much it says. Fifty thousand. This is fifty thousand. If you don't believe it, you can take this slip to the bank and check it out. OK , check it. OK, then I wish you a speedy recovery . Thank you, Aunt Qiu Min. Goodbye. Goodbye, Aunt Qiu Min. Don't send me off. Jiping, I'm sorry. Don't take it to heart . Let's go. I'm sorry. Miss, where does Mr. Ye live? Mr. Ye from the ward , please wait a moment. I checked a piece of paper and it was 50,000. I said that if Lao Kang doesn't return the money to others , I won't pay back a penny. Master, don't be angry. Don't get angry . Can I not be angry? I think this I shouldn't have taken the money at all . Why shouldn't I have taken it? Isn't it okay that I shouldn't have taken the money after she smashed my head like this? That's because I'm lucky. If she had to hit me a few more times, she might have knocked me silly. Where to drink water ? Be good. I'll drink. I'll drink. I'll drink. I'll drink. You have to be obedient . Come and drink water. Mom, if you can't, why do you keep asking people to drink water? It's okay. It's okay. Just run to the toilet twice more. It's okay. It's okay. I'll drink . Jiping. Come on, Dad, do n't drink anymore. You've already had one bottle. Mom, don't give my dad any more. It's okay . It's okay . What's going on? Huixin, I'm begging you . Send my mother to a nursing home. You can beg, but I Hui Xin, who doesn't know how to send it, Chen Jiping, let me tell you, is this so painful? Don't forget that that's your mother. That's your real mother. She brought you up from childhood. I don't want to hear this. I don't want to hear you. This is my truth. I should call her mom , but she is also the mother of my brother and sister. My mother gave birth to three children. But she loves you the most. I'm not balanced . Why should I be left alone ? Why? I also want to take a breather. I also want to invite friends to our house during the weekend . I also want to bring them with me during the long vacation. With you and Lele, let's go out and have fun. I also want to have a high-quality life. I don't want to see diapers. I don't want to see the smell of Chinese medicine filling the air with this prescription and that prescription. I want to live like a human being. I don't do that. Are you a filial son ? Ye Huixin really feels very uncomfortable every time I see my mother. It's like you are reminding me every minute of your obligations and responsibilities. If you do well, that's what you should do. If you don't do well, the whole world is watching. Scold me Hui Xin, I'm very tired, I'm really, really, really tired , Ji Ping, I know you're tired, it's okay to be tired, but you can't abandon her, you know? I know you love her , otherwise you wouldn't care so much about her Hui Xin , because You care about her , that's why you're afraid that you're not good enough, right, because you love her , that's why you can't face her when she's old and sick, right, don't be afraid, Jiping, let 's face the future together. If I get this disease, I'll find someone else. I won't let Lele and you worry about me. It 's too uncomfortable. Don't talk nonsense. I'm here. It's so kind to you. You're so nice. Jianguo. Jianguo . I'm back. Jianguo hasn't come back yet. Hey Jianguo, where are you? In the suburbs, what are you doing in the suburbs ? I guess you just forgot. I forgot . Didn't I tell you last week that I was going to the suburbs today to participate in a photography gathering organized by the Photographers Association? I forgot that you were still busy outside. You were busy . How's it going? Go back early. I know, bye . I haven't wiped it here yet. Lift your feet. Why ? Lift your feet. You know how to eat. What time is it now? What are you thinking about dad? It's time for your grandma to change diapers. Lele, don't let me go. Chen Le, I asked you to change your grandma's diaper. Why is it smelly ? It's so dirty. Chen Le, why are you so heartless? When you were a child, your grandma changed your diaper. Why didn't you think you were dirty or smelly? Then I, I still You don't know anything. Then your grandma is old now and she doesn't know anything. You go and change it . I'll wipe the floor. You go and change it. What are you wiping? You go and change grandma 's diaper. I wipe the floor. I also wash clothes and change diapers . I mop the floor, wash clothes, and take out the trash. I take it out immediately after a week. Why do you have to let me go? I hate those shit, urine, dirty and smelly things the most. Because she is your grandma , it is not a choice that I can make today. I have to ask you to change her diaper. Do you believe it or not? I told you that you have to go to me today. What are you doing? You just want people to praise you for being a good daughter, wife, wife, and mother. I don't believe it. You really like to do it. These things, Chen Le, there is nothing in the world that he likes or dislikes to do. These are all my duties. I am willing to do them. What I should do, because you have nothing else to do . If you had a job, you wouldn't be like this. Don't tell me that you are writing a resignation letter. I don't criticize Xiao Wang. It is easier for men to stand out. This is the law of society. Women have to take care of the family and children. You should have told me earlier. I have undergone sex reassignment surgery and that's not what I say about women. There are also conveniences for women. It sounds like it. It's different. Don't misunderstand me. I don't mean anything else. What I mean is that in the workplace , if I can get a big deal, the company will definitely promote me. I don't want to pull others down and add another position. Creative director has to work so hard to hit the mark. I'm shocked. When did you become so cowardly or did you do something shameful? No, you 're pretty good and you won an award again. This is an award chosen by the Internet , and it's not an authoritative award. Since you don't like these trophies, you Why do you still have to accept it ? You deliberately brought it back to piss me off, right? Look at you, stop pretending. Don't you understand me? We are obviously married! We are obviously married, but what about you ? In the past, I didn't care about you because of your job. But now that you are successful and successful, you don't have to look at other people's faces anymore. But you don't care about me, no , no , I can't find a job, but you care about these boring things. What are you going to do as a housewife ? Host of a marriage expert. Without my silent dedication, would you be able to be where you are today? Please, please, please don't call me, come here , please, please , please don't hit me: Don't hit me , you say This child even plausibly educated me. Why should I be angry with her? Children in the rebellious period are like this. What is the rebellious period? They keep coming up with new words . Why didn't I have a rebellious period at that time? Hui Xin, the biggest problem with you is this person. What's wrong with asking others to be the same as you and me? You shouldn't be filial to your parents and elders. You're probably right . But it's true that the urine and feces are dirty and smelly. You can't say that the urine from her grandma is fragrant. I think it's good that she truly expressed her feelings. All habits are developed since childhood. Ye Huixin, your biggest shortcoming is that you are self-righteous. In fact, my daughter said that you are absolutely right. Your thinking is like that of a housewife now. Look, you should have some contact with the outside world and new things. Don't be too out of date. Why am I so behind the times? Nowadays, civil aviation inspections are very strict. Liquid things like this are not allowed to be brought on board at all. I don't have any common sense and don't know what this is. I follow How many times have you said that slippers like this should not be packed in a box for hotels and disposable slippers ? Sometimes when the security check is opened, I feel that environmental protection is not a concept. Environmental protection is the so-called environment. Forget it, you can check it online yourself. After learning computer skills from Lele, I will pack the boxes myself I sorted out the wrong newspaper. Hui Xin. Where is the newspaper? Don't ask me. I'm not the newspaper delivery person . Then who should I ask? Go to the door and take a look. If there is one, take it. Mom, I'm already late. Why didn't you call me? We have something today. &quot;You can't be late for the exam .&quot; Do you know that it's not me who should be nervous about the exam? Mom, are you taking revenge? You made a mistake last night . Why did Lele talk to your mother ? Aren't you going to school? Hurry up and eat. Huixin, give it to me later. Find a business card. It's that of Xu Yi'an, the representative of the Asia-Pacific region. I remember looking for it in the pocket of the suit I wore last time. Did you recruit her too? Mom, I think your approach is too childish. And based on my attitude towards you. I ca n't hold on for long , Hui Xin, please stop making trouble. That business card is very important. I contacted him as soon as I arrived in Hong Kong. Didn't you find it? No, I gave you all the clothes I took off. The things at home have been put away by you. What 's going on ? Why are you so weird? Do you really not care about your card, your watch, your money? Lele, go to school. Stop looking. Stop looking . I'll help you look for it. Anyway, I won't have time until the third period for the test . Is that how you keep your business cards? Cookie box. What's wrong with that? What do you think this is? Is it your needle thread brain? You don't know that mom still has a copy of your phone number ? What's wrong? It's not like you guys, if your phone is broken! Computer If it's broken, I can't find anything. Where did you put it? Why do n't you call the company and ask why ? If not, then think carefully about whether you lost it somewhere, and you won't find it again. Take this out here. My Hong Kong business card is broken. Did I give my business card to the wrong withdrawal code that day? 527123. This is my business card. What did you say, Dad? If you don't give it to me, you can't find it. Thank you, Chen Jiping. Thank you, Xiao Wang. There is a chaebol in Australia who wants to settle in our company. Both sides of our company need to set up offices. Really, send me there. You look at the car and you say you are too restless to bring your family, right ? It's too inhumane. Okay, then I can't get pregnant and give birth. You're so funny. My family won't tell me who to give birth to. Xiao Liu, is it me ? Is anyone looking for me or calling me ? Thank you, the host of the show, for publishing a book. Why don't you do something about it? Didn't I tell you that I don't want to take it ? But you are the one who has to do it. Does that mean that if I take over this company, I will be given priority in my assignment? This is your job. Do n't negotiate terms with me. Xu Yi'an, Wang Yuening, you What are you doing? You said the wind is just like the rain. You are so startled and jerky all day long. It's really unbearable . I'm sorry. You said you can't go anywhere with your style . There aren't many people like me who can avoid having children. Okay, okay, hurry up and go to the airport. I'm almost late. I can't make it up in time today. No, it's okay . Ning Ning, please forgive me. I'm sorry. We have been married for seven years . This is the first time I have forgotten . It is also my first offense. Please forgive me, okay. It has nothing to do with you. How can I say that my own business is your own business? We are husband and wife. Things in our marriage are the business of two people. What is the business of two people ? My business is my business. I have to bear all the setbacks and failures myself . Ning Ning What's wrong with you? What happened ? I offended my boss. It turned out to be because of this. Do you think this is a trivial matter? Compared with your health and the safety of your family, all setbacks are trivial . Jianguo, do you know how many times our company should do this? I was promoted but not promoted to me? Yuening, this is not important. What do you think is important? Apart from the safety and health you just mentioned, tell me what you think is important. The process of doing everything can be given to you. It brings happiness, but the process is to serve the result. The result is that I should have been promoted but I was not promoted. This is an unfair result, so I am not happy. Take your time, don't be anxious . What should be given to me was given to someone else, and it was replaced by you. Will you not be anxious? Will you feel comfortable? Okay, please stop talking. We will never be able to reach a consensus on this matter. Let's just talk about the two people's affairs. Ning Ning, let's have a child. It only counts if a family has a child. Complete. Look, we have been married for so many years. Shouldn't we have a child? Okay, I'll leave now . Let 's go. If you haven't left yet, the boss is not here, why are you showing off? You guys can leave first. Can others leave? It's none of your business. Let's go, Ms. Wang. Hello, you're looking for me. My surname is Ji, my name is Ji Wei. I came here to see you. What do you want to do with me? Last time we met, your manager introduced us to me . I published a book. The name of the book is A Thing Between Two People. I know that I have washed this fruit for you and you can eat it directly. Also , these medicines, this one, are taken every night. This one is one tablet in the morning and one night. And this one is taken every day. I've got two tablets for you in the morning and evening . You have to remember to take them. I know, I know. I know everything. I know everything. I know it now and forget it in a while. I'm not your mother-in-law. I have a good brain. My mother-in-law is a little confused . I'm there, who are you here ? Let me tell you, don't be lazy and don't take your medicine. If you don't hear me , I will call you from time to time , and I will also conduct surprise inspections to deal with old kids like you. I am too experienced. If I can win you, even Ji Ping admires me. Huixin, I ask you, is Ji Ping still so impatient with his mother? Nonsense, it didn't happen that day in the hospital when his mother asked me to drink water . Old man, please take care of yourself. I don't care about you. Stop working. What's going on with Jiping and his mother now ? Are Jiping and his mother okay ? Don't think about it. Your reading glasses remote control board is fine. There should be nothing going on at home. Then I'll go back. Dad, I hired a part-time worker for you. I 'll be here in a moment . Hui Xin is such a good boy . Fortunately, you have me. You can see that I'm awesome. Dad, I'm not only a good boy , I'm also a good woman. A good daughter, a good wife, and a good mother. Let 's go, go slowly, Hui Xin, go slowly, click this, you can see it, Grandma Jiang, you are really amazing . Even my mother doesn't know how to use a computer. I just learned it . Look, press here, you can see it, right ? Mom forgot to bring the key again. This looks good. Look at this. Why did you forget to bring the key again? If you saw it, didn't you forget it ? Then why don't you open the door yourself? It's a blessing to have family members open the door. Do you understand that grandma is playing on the computer again? Grandma Jiang. What are you teaching ? Aunt Qiu Min, please teach me too. I have just learned. I would like to read some blogs. I have a fixed blog. Look at whose blog it is. Look at how this person looks so familiar. This is the host of the show, Ji Wei. Let me see. After her show, can you plan and market my book? Although the title of the book is about two people, I'm sorry. It's not just the title of the book. I have no interest in this case from the inside out. Without interest, there is no feeling. If there is no feeling , I can't do it well. Have you read my book? No. Are you not interested in watching my show? With all due respect, are you married? But my marriage is fine , right? I am very happy with my husband and have a happy family life. It is impossible because there is no world. There is a perfect marriage. This is why fairy tales only talk about the wedding of the princess and the prince and can no longer go on. You don't know me at all. Doctors don't need to know patients . I am not a patient. People will get sick if they eat whole grains. Two people eat together for a long time. It's inevitable. Look, why are you reacting so strongly? Besides, if you are sick, you can go to the doctor. Even if you have marriage problems, it's okay. I'll say it again, my marriage has no problems. I am very happy with my husband. We just had a very happy marriage. Anniversary. Hello Aunt Qiu Min. I am taking my mother for a walk. OK, okay. I know. Goodbye. Mom, Mom, are you okay? Mom, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, old man. Are you okay? It's okay. It's okay . Let's take a cake. I want to eat cake. Mom, I want to eat cake. I just finished dinner and I don't want to eat cake. How about this ? I'll treat my aunt to a cake. Even if I apologize, no, no, no, mom, let's go home, eat cake, eat cake, eat cake, come, come , walk, eat cake . But they told me that you work at the company for three hundred and sixty-six dollars a year. Fifteen days a year, all year round. In such a working state, the quality of your marriage will be better. That means my husband has given me a lot of space . Do you know what he is doing now? I don't need to know that we trust each other. I'm not saying that. Trust me or not, I want to ask you if you know what he is doing now. You see, we have been chatting for so long and he has never called. Even if he has called before, maybe he is deceiving you. In my experience, this is the case. There are so many cases. Hey, I got here first. Where is your company? Paris Baguette. I saw Paris Baguette. After a while, I went up. Hey Jianguo, where are you? I'm in a cafe. Are you alone? Yes, I'm alone. Are you okay? Where are you at the company, okay? I'll see you that evening. Hey, are you okay ? I want to discuss your case tomorrow , but you said , can you please go to my blog before we meet ? Otherwise, you can watch Channel 3. I host The Marriage Story program is broadcast every night at 11 o'clock sharp . I know, go here. Mom, I won't take it, I won't take it, I won't take it back. Why did you get off work so early today? You've been staying in the coffee shop until now. Yes, why are you still drinking coffee? Ah, I have to stay up late tonight to catch up on some movies.