- Good afternoon. It doesn't seem like it's on. Is it good? Good afternoon. Welcome to our dean speaker series, co-hosted by the Berkeley Center for Workplace Culture and Innovation. My name is Jenny Chapman. I'm the associate dean here at Haas. Dean Harrison is actually kind of around the world right now. She apologizes that she can't be here, but we are here, and I'm so absolutely thrilled to introduce our guest today, Patrick Collison. Patrick has been an entrepreneur, I'm guessing since the day you were born. He created iPhone apps and his teams founding and co-founding his which we're gonna talk a lot about. Stripe was born when Patrick and John looked for a payment platform but couldn't find all of the features they thought would be important. And Stripe debuted in 2010 because the product is really simple for businesses to implement. Of course, the backend but it's easy on the Through Patrick's leadership, listen to this, $1 trillion So it's really becoming And today- - You can't assume the You can't say like, It could be despite my leadership. (audience laughing) - I'm sure that that's correct, but we will talk about You will deflect it So today, millions of businesses to global enterprises like Ford and Amazon use Stripe to accept payments and payouts, manage complex business online. Patrick, we were back and Patrick was telling us about his biomedical research foundation, the Arc Institute, that Fascinating, fascinating work. Through the ARC Institute, are pioneering new model research in partnership with and UC Berkeley, and hopes to enable passionate to study and address complex diseases, which gives us all great comfort to know that brilliant some of the most difficult So Patrick, we're incredibly grateful to have you here today, to impart your learnings - No, thanks for having me. And it's a particular honor to be here because the first time you guys rejected me. So it's... (audience laughing) No, look, I might have - So did you land at - My first ever trip to America And I visited Stanford and Berkeley, and those are my first, literally, kind of two experiences of the US and I just assumed all And, and so then I, yes, decided but I couldn't get further - Oh my gosh. Well, that was a miss on our part. I can't say it would be the Anyway, let me do two and then we can properly welcome you. The first housekeeping issue is you notice that you have note cards on And it's not for keeping your golf score, but please, if you have questions, please note them on the card. We have collectors, Sarah and Audrey, who will be collecting and bringing them up here. And at around 1:15, 1:10/1:15, we're gonna start answering So please be sure to And second, I wanna Sameer Srivastava, my partner in crime. We are the co-founders for Workplace Culture and Innovation. And many of you probably have had Sameer for the power and politics class. So Sameer, welcome too. So let's give now a proper Thank you so much for coming up. (audience applauding) So let's start with a which is if you could walk us through your kind of career progression, I think it would be of great - Oh gosh. Alright, well you already heard but, so I grew up in very rural Ireland, and our house was kind of so it's more detailed maybe but you can push fast But just the relevant kind was we couldn't really get a And so I first learned about and borrowed from the library, and to think, wow, this And there was no TikTok or anything. And then actually the was to my parents when I was 13, trying to convince them to satellite internet and very, very graciously, and I dunno, forbearing exceeded and we got it and it was a hundred euro which was a big deal. So, once we got that, then and kind of fell down that rabbit hole. And then when I went to MIT, and maybe you guys have had kind of versions of this experience, but you know, I considered myself pretty and sort of science and things like that, when I was in high school. And so MIT had like three different intro kinda freshman physics with great ambition and virtue that like I'd go take the hard one, and I did and it was hard. And they had this kind and that I guess they use I dunno, the something... And I remember the average was like a 43 or something. And I was feeling initially, I don't know, well kinda mixed feelings, but somewhat proud I'd scored like a 70 or something like that. And then I saw that this... I dunno if this is good for and maybe now this policy in the intervening years, but at the time they published And then I saw that this guy, Yufei Xiao, had gotten like a 97. And that was like a big to be clear, I've never I don't think he's heard of me. - But you certainly remember - He is large in my life. And I thought, well if Yufei Xiao exists and can be like so spectacularly well, maybe I shouldn't Comparative advantage, So I did some soul searching, and by the way, I looked him up, and he's done very well So, I think we... And he now trains MIT Putnam Anyway, so he found his thing, - He didn't found Stripe. - Well, look, I think he's not doing... I think Yufei Xiao has self-actualized with tremendous effectiveness. - You both have. - But anyways, so... But I done all this programming And then right around this was fall of 2009. Sorry, fall of 2006, excuse me. Reddit was purchased by Conde And I knew the Reddit guys a little bit because YC started out in Cambridge and they were based there in Cambridge and they were just like and the idea that they'd like anyone can make a just there was a big kind And so I thought well, not maybe this startup thing And I really liked programming. And so my brother and I, we It did like okay. It was acquired for a Went back to school. And something we learned over the course of that first company was... Cloud computing was I think EC2 launched in '07, maybe '08. And it was now getting incredibly easy to just like launch a website and you could do that in an afternoon. You didn't have to like call someone up and like rent a server. But whenever you wanted to move money, it was kind of jumping You'd like go to a bank and the forms were in Latin or so it felt. And so it was just this kind certain aspects of setting up a business were becoming kind of so streamlined. And then other parts There was such a high and kind of so much inhibition, and we thought something and we were like googling for it. Like there must be like... How could there not be an Like, it's not an obscure need. But we eventually concluded there wasn't. And so we're walking back from dinner, not that far from here, a and John turned to me... We'd come out here, for a startup event at Berkeley. You guys hosted YC startup school in 2009. And we were feeling very inspired. And so after dinner, John said to me, &quot;Well, build a prototype of this Stripe thing. You know, it can't be that hard.&quot; Here we are. - Wow, that's great. - Great, so we wanted to ask you also about the early days of Stripe, 'cause every startup faces So could you describe for us like one big challenge or hurdle that you encountered in and how you overcame it? - Well, I had breakfast this morning with another startup founder and we were kind of reminiscing about or discussing the fact that people will sometimes ask us now, I mean, she's been working five or six years now. And people will sometimes And we were kind of making because the early stages of And so is it still fun? Like, which period was fun here? So, look, the early days of Stripe, like, in hindsight it's now, like many maybe intense you look back on them with but when you're living them, I mean you like don't know the outcome. I mean, they're just stressful. I remember very vividly and intensively we worked. And I don't know if we kind of had to, but we felt like we had to, and we did. Like, we started out down in Palo Alto and we hired this guy who and he ended up deciding to move from San Francisco to Palo Alto because the last Caltrain left Palo Alto to go north at 11:00 PM and he felt guilty leaving the And that's, like, again, maybe that was... We were kind of misallocating but just like as a descriptive matter, that that's how it played out. And then of course there and tribulations. Like, I remember our first where people are using and if Stripe is down, So we felt this very and a rack blew up at a data center and Stripe therefore was unavailable. And we had a kind of... We didn't have proper And I was paged at 2:00 AM, and very unusually I'd left... I mean, Stripe was five people at the time and very unusually I'd left so I had to like get on my start trying to fix things. It took six hours. Eventually, 8:00 AM, 10:00 I remember feeling so because I realized as Stripe recovered, that we hadn't received Nobody had even noticed. Stripe was that And then of course subsequent to that we had production issues that were... In fact there was no And you're taught to be kinda But I would say overall that... And by the way, I think this is not... I don't think Stripe was in any way an unusual experience here. Like, I don't think where the experience of the It was fulfilling, but, yeah, it was just like difficult AF. And I remember Jensen Jensen Huang from NVIDIA what starting NVIDIA would be like, even knowing the outcome today, the hottest company in that if he'd known in the beginning what it would actually take, that he wouldn't have started it. And I think even when you get sort of a surprising - So we've been- - I'm sorry, I'm really to start a company. It's great. Such a motivational fireside chat here. But look, actually, okay, if I would still start Stripe. There. - You've heard it here first. - Maybe NVIDIA was just and I'm just a wimp, but... - Yeah. Maybe he was having a bad day. So we've been really intentional at creating a deliberate culture, which our students know well. We have four defining leader principles. One of my favorites is which is why I think our and not overconfident. But I'm wondering about in designing the culture at Stripe, and what you did initially, I think now you have something What looks different now? How is the culture doing? How are you thinking about it? We would be super interested to know. - Well, just you mentioned the values here. And actually we did and I won't mention kind but just we noticed that Berkeley And that was something that... But gee, you can't let It'd be self-defeating. So you can't be proud of that. But yeah, I dunno if it's but somehow... I mean, Ireland has kind of a hypertrophic pernicious version I think of humility where we start to get resentful of anything that's successful. Like U2 or any other we take a very dim view of those things. But anyway, so we, early on... I don't know. Well, partly because we knew that Stripe, even if it worked, would take a long time, just 'cause it's an With Snapchat or TikTok or something, everyone can just kind we're going to adopt it, it's within two years it's an If you look at the internet Take a company like Amazon, kind of companies that are operating more at the sort of infrastructure level. Like Amazon, within its was not growing a hundred or something like that. Amazon within four years was growing at about 30 points a year. And what's remarkable about with which they've sustained that growth, but the kind of the rate itself is not particularly noteworthy. And similarly, if you take the internet, the internet has grown of around 30 to 40% year over year. But in no year after did the internet double year over year. Again, it was just this like over the course of now And so anyway, we kinda Again, even if it was gonna work, would probably have roughly And so yeah, we wanted a cultural orientation that we thought would kind of befit that, and that that requires recognizing that we're not here to build cars, and it's the kind of who wants to build some but the kind of person who And that's not everyone and that's fine. We need cars for the roads. And so there's kind of a diversity of different skills required. And again, it is very hard to separate that which is adapted for Stripe and that which is just or something. But because Stripe's domain and where the details really matter. Like if we make a mistake, there's a very good somebody's paycheck is wrong or something. It's like even in a single instance... There's this, I think, a culture at Stripe of just really prizing the small details. And we talk a lot about and abstractions that and sort of really getting those right. So I would say precision - So could you talk a little bit about your own leadership journey It's one thing to be the another to be running an organization of the size and scale that Stripe is now. And thinking in particular about this idea of rigor or precision, how do you really try to embody that and reinforce it through - Well, the good news about startups is as far as I can tell, if the initial idea is good and if kind of the market's good, like, kind of those core characteristics, and if you're willing to the startups... So startups I think are and they can endure a lot as you learn along the way. And I definitely didn't come to Stripe with any kind of enlightened or sort of genetic muscle Like, Stripe didn't have any managers until we were 70 or 80 people. And that's not a best practice. If we were doing it all again, I would definitely kind of And also, there's lots of other things that I think in hindsight were ill-advised and mildly unhelpful but And so I think at a metal much more sort of the rate of adaptation, the rate of learning. And John and I, we're... Stripe conducted layoffs in 2022, where... During the pandemic. I just said a moment Amazon, whatever, didn't During the pandemic, it that even though, again, Stripe we roughly doubled in 2020 and 2021. And so kind of our forecast, how big we would be and what we would need to sustain the service and everything got pretty outta whack. And so in 2022 we were trying obviously acknowledging a and significant mistake. And John and I had this imagine that we're sort of who've just purchased Stripe and we're horrified at the decisions the prior management has made. And the want and errors and mistakes and sort of grievous that have been committed. And somehow, like, I to be right than to be consistent. And I think somehow getting yourself into the psychological and you can swiftly recognize, well, I tried this, it's really not working, let's do something else. I think as long as you I think a lot of the are recoverable. - Yeah. Better to be right. We agree with that. So... - But you know, it sounds like a... It's easy to say. I think a lot of people, and like, I think we all kind of psychological pull to kind of intertemporal internal consistency. - Well, there are huge biases. Actually, one of the deep the escalation of commitment was a professor here for many years, and it's a very, very treacherous bias. That consistency, people having an external image of consistency and even maintaining because in some ways consistency describes the essence of who you are. - Yeah, and look, I some set of things about which one ought to be consistent, right? And so it's maybe wrong overboard wholesale. - Right. - But, tying your to specific management practices, seems like maybe over - Yeah. Well, I mean, the countervailing force is an experimental mindset, right? Where you're actually discarding ideas that aren't working because - Yeah. And again, maybe the fact the middle of nowhere in One thing that is I think, helpful, a lot of different have kind of some self-conception The French people, English one could occasionally - What? - One thing that's great about Ireland is we never have delusions of grandeur. And Ireland never thought of itself as like the best country in the And very fond of it, to be clear. And so anyway, it wasn't well, we know nothing about this domain and we should assume that will turn out, ex post - Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Well, an interesting issue. So switching topics a little bit, there's a lot of discussion about... Well, we used to think about In fact, my dissertation and understanding all about culture fit. And in addition to finding you wanna find people who resonate with the culture that you've created. But people are now and ensuring that you're not just fueling a kind of homogeneous And so I'm just interested to find out where Stripe is on this balance. - Well, I think this at the meta level, where how do we have more variegated and kind of heterogeneous cultures across an industry and across so that people can find that that place is me, right? And actually, one of the about the internet... Like, Stripe's mission is to increase the GDP of the internet. There's sort of a why should you be excited about that? Like, kind of, who cares? And I think part of it is that enables increased access to for most people in most it's pretty difficult the set of goods and services that say we here in the Bay Area And again, growing up in Ireland, there were so many magazines or newspapers or whatever we would get, and there'd be little fine print, &quot;Offer not applicable in Where it was printed for the UK but they hadn't figured for Ireland or something. So, something I think about the internet is just about this kind global access. But maybe a second order that personally appeals is I think we want a... I think a richer society, not in the kind of but in kind of a... In the second sense of the word, is one where there's a greater array and more complexity of goods and services, and that variety is in more abundance. And if you can aggregate well then it can make sense to serve some very narrow niches. Right? And part of what I love about Stripe is I'll stumble upon so many like, I would never have thought that that could even be a business, right? You know, people, a marketplace and user created action figures, right? Or CRM for Boy Scout troops. And these things would never make sense if you just had a village It only makes sense sort of the entirety of So anyway, I think that this and if one can only work well, they'll probably all... Like, by necessity, they'll approximating the same kind of culture just by virtue... Like there can't be that if there's only 10 places. And I love finding organizations and places where the central And I visited the folks at and I really think Jane Street I mean, it probably wouldn't be for me, but like for the people at Jane Street, it seems awesome and Right? And my wife's a scientist and as you get a sense for the cultures of different departments at a university, or even across universities, you realize, well, some of these have like very unusual cultures. And again, probably not in that area, but right for who can affiliate. So anyway, just to your kind I think figuring out mechanisms by which we can enable more of kind of across the board. I think that's really helpful. - So turning to unique cultures, I wanna come back to Stripe. And one of the cultural tenets as being, &quot;Continually that we might be forgetting So I'm wondering if you could give us an example of that tenant in practice, but also how do you keep from being too paranoid? - Can you be too paranoid? What do you think? Well, if one can be too paranoid, then we might have to So... The thing that makes me so paranoid, and maybe this is kind of is again, just the... Like, we handle around a that works out to around 1% of global GDP. And again, there's just that if Stripe is unavailable, that's a lot of people and a lot of activity And during the pandemic, Zoom and Amazon and so many load bearing pillars of society, they were handling their And so we feel this extremely... I dunno, solemn kind of to be able to provide the way that they ought to expect. And so it's less a competitive paranoia and more paranoia that with respect to our obligations to them. And again, I don't know if you could take that too seriously, but for us, it's very weighty. - So I have a question. I used to teach a case about John Reed who decades ago was the CEO of Citigroup, and he was one of the first of the back office being like a factory. You use a metaphor of in finance being more like a bicycle, which I find appealing. I'm a cyclist. So what does that actually mean and how does that influence and how roles are thought - Well, I've forgotten I said that, so thank you for... It's a good metaphor. But... The thing we spend a lot is necessarily in organizations you... Or maybe necessarily is a strong word, but the bureaucracies So it appears necessary with current organizational practices to And I don't have a better idea. So let's just kinda That necessarily involves of Chinese whispers, and information loss sort And so the picture that the people making the most important might be meaningfully divergent from that which is actually true. And so the thing I'm always how do I know what's actually true? And not just how do I know, but how do leaders generally across Stripe know what's actually true? And so we built our own internal and it's less because we customize the animations. It's more that we want, like... Because it is so important that we know what reality is saying to kind of figure out the optimal way of surfacing that context. And I mean, it's true to some but I think it's especially and in the creation of... Like, software is an interesting thing, where there's mining, some kind of linear the number of people extracting and how much rock is produced in the economic value, whatever. It's very kind of tailor-en. And then you have movie where if you're a publishing house, you can't just kind of measure your likely prospective of just like number of writers, right? Like it's so sensitive of every individual person. I think creating software is halfway between mining and novel writing, where look, there is just... There is some scaling and one person could not or, choose your service, but it's definitely not linear. And for us at Stripe, even though decisions have to get made, the work is not being done The software engineers and the designers and everybody involved in... The partnerships people, whatever. In the creation of the They're the people and everyone else is in some sense playing a supporting role. And so I think it's important to have that kind of inverted And it's not sort of a feel good thing, it's just, it's a deep truth. Like, I dunno how many support staff work behind JK Rowling to enable But JK Rowling is the - Yeah, right. - So I'm gonna turn to another facet of the culture at Stripe, which has to do- - Can we talk about JK All right, okay. - Not yet. - We'll let it slide this time. So- - We're at a business school. - Yes, exactly. So the other facet of the Stripe culture I wanna talk about is And of course it's becoming but my sense is you were of a writing culture. So tell us a little bit and then how you reinforce it. - It's kinda funny. I know what you mean. It's kinda funny to consider oneself an early adopter of writing culture for true to form tablets. What do I say? Well, partly I think it comes from... We were just kind of in the beginning and we, even when there's only four or we would just communicate because it's kind of less oppressive than having to talk to each other. So, part of it was just of early people. And to be fair, if I much include myself. Like, John, my co-founder and charming and like It's rare that I'm wheeled - He's the front man. - You can see why. So like, if John didn't exist, it's unclear whether Stripe But I do like writing and I like reading. I think it's like a... I found very... Bruno Latour has this piece about... And he overcomplicates it because you have to for that kind of work. But he has this piece I guess, mobiles since he's French. And he kinda makes this is maybe correctly of the scientific revolution. But maybe the sort of we might perceive the we have the printing press, we can like distribute more stuff and now just people have They come to more insight. He makes the point that manuscripts were And in the act of copying by hand, obviously there's the prospect And so that means when or confront some observation where there's a disparity or by the theory or whatever, and what is it you see, you can't really tell. Is it because the theory is wrong or is it because there was made along the way, right? And it's kind of when that it became easier to break in a way that is conducive to the and inadequate explanations. I found that very thought provoking. And I think there is something to that. And obviously this also between oral cultures where I guess back to that 70% of what we believe is wrong, if we don't write it down, it's gonna be harder to remember what specifically we thought and what specifically we believed because our minds will And so I think part of the is our past selves look stupider. And that's actually very adaptive because we're like, oh and just clearly these two are not true. And I think yeah, that makes it easier to find our flaws. - I was gonna say, as a I've talked to lots of CEOs. This is the first time someone in a response to a question. So very impressive. - Yeah. I'm gonna skip around here 'cause we wanna get to So, actually Sameer and I have a podcast because, like, who doesn't? And our second episode just dropped today and it's about... CEOs have been, lots of managers work schedules and remote work and hybrid work and what's working. So since we don't know the So I understand that increased from about 20% Is that about right? Yeah. So I mean, how has this What differences do you notice? Is it what you're expecting - Well, I think the right answer is probably quite scale dependent and like, with Stripe now we can't all fit in the no matter how draconian our And furthermore, we serve businesses and employ people all around the world. And so, we're necessarily Like, there is no universe lots of Zoom meetings, just because of the And then, so the question around the exact nature we want people to have in but not, again, whether they're conducting a lot of work that is distant And so I think for a large organization for whom that's the case, there are considerable just for boring reason... I mean, everyone, this becomes but I think there's... A bunch of the kind of fairly uncontroversial. Like there are some people and really enjoy working in their cave. I think I would probably and sadly, I'm not in a but some people are and that's great. Other people, they get really bored and they go, they get cabin fever, and they really wanna And just like, those people exist as well. And society probably have some mechanism for the provision of It's probably a to have more options for the kind of, the cave dwellers, the sort of sit in the room and Again, like me. And then I think there... You have to think about where there's a question and knowledge transmission. And so I think some of the analyses that look at kind of short I mean that's interesting, but Ideally you have to take a And I think that sort over a workforce. And you know, Berkeley has as I understand it. And they're like, if Berkeley went remote, maybe Berkeley would be fine But the idea of like four, 20 generations of Berkeley like I have to think that culture would at least be different, right? So yeah, I think all those but maybe relevantly for I do notice that the 10 the 50 person companies, for whom being in room the ones that exercise that option really seem to do better. And I think we all even intuitively kind of know it, where... I often ask parents like, if your kid was considering like, one is kind of fully in person, resolutely five days a week, and one is like kinda loosey goosey or fully remote or something, like, which, with your which would you advise them to take? And no parent that I've in answering that question. - That's right. Okay, so, yeah. - So I have the honor of as well as my own. So- - Austin, you wanna introduce yourself? - Sure, yeah. So I'm Austin Schoff, I'm also a member of the I think the first question is the future of money movement. What do you think will happen? Will it be more real time payments? Will it be more crypto type transactions? Will it still be T plus using Swift for eternity? What do you think is the future of money transactions and money movement? - I think the short like, to each specific I think the answer to each one is yes, except maybe the T plus two. But so first off, the US is in which payments are where across most other... Not most. Many other major markets around the world, there's been enormous changes So obviously UPI in India. Everyone knows WePay and Alipay in China. But you know, those are kinda famous ones. But like Pix was launched and within two years, the majority of the was a weekly active user on Pix. It's kind of UPI for Brazil. There's Swish and TWINT in Sweden and Switzerland respectively. And a whole host of schemes Malaysia has its own. Japan is now finally starting So, it's happening is the short answer. The Ron Paul gif. And then crypto, I think that... I mean, there's kinda a like, these different lenses of analysis of store of value or or kind of are talking But as a means of exchange, I think you should probably between stable coins I think the stable coin thing is happening and the absolute numbers but not that small. Like I think the outstanding tether volume is now like in the order like, it's not nothing. And then, given the it's not totally clear to me or some other kind of for a medium exchange. And Swift will still for interbank settlement, as Or forfeiture was initially designed. And t plus two, it'll probably shrink, but you do have to... I mean it's interesting to this kind of new real time that has only kind of but we're already starting instantaneous transactions... What about scams? What about fraud? What kind of oversight is possible? So it's not like a totally free lunch. And Bitcoin, of course, because for certain use but they often celebrate the fact that transactions are We also see some of the downsides of that with respect to other activities. But it's all happening. - Next question I wanna hit on, how do you deliver constructive feedback while maintaining trust, especially given that a could be the loss of a depending on scale? - I think people really want to... I think they really What is their interlocutor's And I think loss of constructive feedback, but comes from a divergence and what you're saying is true. And so I would almost kind well, if you've constructive feedback and you're not telling them, I think you're really undermining trust. And, look, this is... I don't know if it's possible I haven't heard of it Maybe it is, I'm not saying it's not. But I think it would be a if in fact it can be taught well, and some of the people at Stripe... There's in fact, I think, a causal positive relationship, where the people at Stripe with whom I feel the greatest trust those who give me the And maybe just even kind of knowing... Like maybe that fact should Not about me, but just that these things in fact can go together. - Could you talk a little and how we should think to carbon removal as part - Yeah, so... If you look at the IPCC to the earth's climate over basically we're gonna any reasonable target. Two, two and a half degrees, whatever. Unless we remove a from the atmosphere, because the problem where even if we fully decarbonize the economy, like all the CO2 molecules, like they don't know about that. Like they're still there. And so there's this kind and we were looking at these and all companies are sort of announcing their sort of fancy climate whatever. And like many of those are good but not all of them are, and a lot of companies are that we think are... Like, are just like fundamentally kind of, almost necessarily fraudulent. Like I think they're fraudulent, like, they almost couldn't not where you're kind of and you're like, okay, well I please pay me. But it's like, were are you Like how could anyone So, so anyway, we're reflecting and then kind of thinking in the context of climate generally. And I mean, because of this we hate doing something that's... Inauthentic is not quite the right word, but like, if we say something, we want it to be literally true. And doing something kind of just for show really kinda rubs us the wrong way. So anyway, we noticed that as of 2018 had ever purchased So removal is totally Removal is like, I will and they're gonna have to like bring back some actual CO2 molecules. But there's this kind of, and more importantly, the molecules are no So, no company had bought from There were, or back then, only two companies even in operation. We thought, well, like this Again, the IPCC reports show you that. Like, they say we're only not screwed if we remove a lot of CO2. And so we thought maybe it'll I mean it's not like Stripe is Microsoft or IBM or something. Like, we're not the most or legitimizing buyer you could have, but we're something at least, and so maybe it'd be if we started to purchase from them. So we started to buy from them in 2018. Our first transaction was And kind of based on that and learning more about the sector, we were very fortunate to have some really terrific people join. And they cooked up this the second ever large scale AMC. So AMC stands for advanced commitment. And the idea is you pre-commit something that doesn't currently exist, as this was first pioneered for vaccines where there are all sorts of conditions we wanna vaccinate people for, but like the vaccines Of course the the vaccine manufacturer, the scientists or whatever, there's market risk for well, if I invent it, will anyone buy it? And so this is a way to try Worked quite successfully there. Gavi was the program. And so we decided, hey, for carbon removal, where we want more of We'll pre-commit upfront to of carbon removal, at any price, from like whoever will come And so we assembled a coalition that includes Meta, Alphabet, a host of other companies, but Stripe committed the And gosh, we've now, I think, purchased from on the order And the stat that I'm proudest we are the company's first ever customer. And so we're not like who we're their thousandth customer, it's already validated. Kind of we're through frontier, this organization kind of hey, we think this we think it has promise, we're going to contract with you today and hopefully you can to sell to others and so forth. So anyway, it's early days. Most of the CO2 is so, it would be premature to But some of the companies are and yeah, we'll see how it goes. - How do you think can help businesses in developing markets, maybe even in places where is not as strong as it could be? What do you think the future - I think the... Well, I think the internet access problem is pretty quickly being solved, in that... Like, over Thanksgiving I went to Brazil, and I was on a little boat on the Amazon and I had perfect 3G reception. Across most... Like, India thanks to Reliance Jio, like, data is becoming super cheap in the most populous country in the world. And there's kind of versions of this story playing out in so many places. So I don't worry too of internet problem. I think the... Look, I think the internet is... Is one of the most important with respect to the enablement And so I was born in Ireland in 1988, and when my parents who Ireland was a kind of, was a and the Catholic church kind and we were a very kind closed little enclave. And there was a great deal of interest in sort of how could Ireland be the... How could things in Ireland We're right there next to England, why is Ireland so bad? And it turns out that it was bad policy. And some enlightened people they proposed that, hey, if we reformed and reconfigured ourselves in a kind of more free market direction, that good things could follow. And there was some propitious timing where the EU came along and we joined it and American multinationals We benefited from that and so forth. But hey, point is between and when I left for college in 2006, Ireland had, I think, the of any country in the world. And you can't grow up around that and kind of fail to internalize the, like, the moral importance of economic growth. And it's kind of avant garde, rich places, just sort of degrowth and the ills of capitalism, whatever. And, for places that are already I understand how it might the underlying imperative there. But having kind of seen The longitudinal difference, it's... And I'm sure many of you from your lives. The criticality is very apparent. And so anyway, Stripe's mission is to grow the GDP of the internet. And we think about this a lot with respect to those emerging markets where... There's only one technology to enable impoverished places to become, or at least to get on the trajectory to kind of full developed world status. And that is a free market economy connected and integrated And Stripe's obviously but if we can play a very small role in enabling those transitions, we'll feel good about that. - Amazing. Are you done? - We have one final question. - Okay, one final. - Are there any founders And then conversely, who give you the ick? (audience laughing) - We won't tell. - It's not recorded or anything. - Exactly, not being live streamed. So... Look, it's hard to single I think that, I mean, which but also true. I mean, I'm kind of partial to... I mean, we culturally know a lot about the present day founders, right? I think it's kind of of kind of generations past and like not that many generations past are so much less culturally conspicuous. And so, sorry, this is now but there's a book Stripe Press published called &quot;The Big Score&quot;, about primarily in Silicon Valley, in the seventies and the eighties. And those characters and firms and so on, they're kind But they were incredibly impressive. Or Cypress, these sorts of businesses. And so I found it fun to learn from them and to see kind of what's And then, I don't know, I really enjoy kind of founder-like personalities from non startup domains and just kind of, again, both the sort of the And so like a guy who really and was Ed Walsh, who started the University And nobody... Limerick is a very small city in Ireland and nobody at the time really thought that Limerick even deserved a university. And he couldn't persuade anyone to kind of let Limerick have a And so it was a national My dad was actually in the But then eventually acquired But like, I don't know, who before that was living in the US and decided like, screw it, I think Limerick should have a university. And over the course of several decades, really realized that vision in an extraordinarily impressive way. So, I dunno, I like from the non-technology domain. - Yeah. Well, thank you Austin. Those were terrific questions. Patrick, a whirlwind of Yeah. Citations- - That was so disorganized that I'm having trouble - No, no, no. Well, you began with Ireland I think it's completely appropriate. We are so grateful for coming We hope you will come again sometime soon. But let's offer Patrick our - Thank you very much. - Fantastic. And thank you all for coming. We really appreciate you attending. We hope you got a good lunch We'll see you again soon. Thanks everybody. - Thank you. Of course, that was fun. - Yeah, that was amazing. That was so fun.