Hi, I'm Vanessa from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com. Are you ready to speak confidently Let's imagine this scene. You're walking out walking up to you and I say to you in English, is? I'm trying to find it.&quot; &quot;Oh my goodness.&quot; do you confidently say, &quot;Oh, hey Vanessa, I watch around the corner. Can I treat you to a drink?&quot; If yet never fear. Today, you are going to learn And of course, like always, to help you I have created a free PDF worksheet today for concepts, everything that you need to go into the at the bottom of the worksheet, you can answer forget what you've learned. In today's most popular lessons about speaking confidently to fear and hello to confidence? Let's do it. even though it's 7:00 in the morning, Costa Rica. than at the beach, right? But you can't always today, I want to give you my top tip for helping you're speaking English. I know that a lot of speak in English with a foreign company or maybe other countries. This is a pretty you want to be polite, you want to represent your yourself well. You want to be confident, be So, when you speak in a business situation, stressful situation in English. What about walking around New York City on your vacation and so you want to ask for a recommendation want to talk with a native English speaker. but it's a little bit less stressful than going to lose your job. What if you go to an by other people who are also learning English. someone in New York or having a business meeting you're in. They understand exactly that kind of speaking another language because that's what What about if you're just at home watching this maybe watching the subtitles, which you can always and you're trying to repeat out loud after me. No but you still need courage to be able to use your out loud and hear your own voice in English. And this is my tip, this is where I stressed about speaking English, start at no one else is listening, no one else is watching repeat directly after me in these videos. You you're on the computer. You can just click CC in you can click those three little dots at the You can just repeat out loud after me and get I know for me, when I visited other foreign Spanish, I feel a little bit strange at first another language. And maybe you felt that feeling voice using English, you'll start to feel a little up to the next level. So, after you've mastered then you can go to that next level, which get and understand how you're feeling. Maybe or I know a lot of you who are part of a lot of you speak together on Skype. on WhatsApp, on Skype, on Google Hangouts and other people, but also you can get over your in the same boat. This is a wonderful idiom that involves maybe a little bit of risk, a little bit can both understand each other. So, speaking with help build your confidence. After you've mastered little while, you feel more and more comfortable, now it's time to speak with a native speaker. a teacher, it could be someone who lives in who is from the U.S. and you want to just You already have a little relationship, you or maybe you just go to another city like you go maybe you can watch my video about how to order feel a little more comfortable because you've then working more and more and more and Personally, I think something really magical speaker and they can understand you, you can conversation. Something happens that is amazingly &quot;Vanessa can understand me, this other native This is amazing.&quot; You have this beautiful boost increase your English in every other way. What do yourself, you've built your confidence, you've your confidence and then you've spoken with Now, it's time to move on and speak at maybe you have to make phone calls with You've really prepared yourself well. You've stressful situation. It might still be a little than if you just started with that and you didn't do this, you're building your confidence and &quot;I will grow, I will improve and I can do it. to be at the beach. You don't need to have the monkeys behind you. You just need to really build And now I have a question for you. Have you ever did you feel? What was that experience like congratulations. If you felt really stressed, start small. Start with these steps speaking and repeating after me, then working a native English speaker. And then, if you need to that point. Before we go today, we're going to going to see the waves rolling in and we're you to repeat it with me. This is starting at the want you to say this phrase with me and I hope The waves are beautiful, aren't they? I want you waves, take a deep breath, let's say it together. I can speak English confidently without stress. I can speak English confidently Why did I choose a spot where I'm it's hot. Did you guys see how much I'm burning as we speak. Huh. There's monkeys in there Hope they enjoyed it. I guess there's jaguars Imagine this. You're at a party where you don't in English, but you don't feel super comfortable walks up to you, smiles, introduces themselves friendly and seem genuinely interested in what having a comfortable conversation in English. You new friend is encouraging you and you're saying how to say. You leave the party feeling happy, and an amazing conversation. If you had not gone to you would have missed out on such an amazing time. says, &quot;I've learned that people will forget but people will never forget how you made them to have perfect grammar, perfect vocabulary, make other people feel good, you are automatically going to teach you four tips and several phrases while you're speaking with them which also grows one for amazing conversations is to compliment everyone, &quot;You're so beautiful. You're handsome. No. This doesn't mean that you are This means that you are showing genuine interest can show other people that you're interested &quot;Yes, what you're saying is interesting. I some positive interjections in conversations. time and you should too. I want to teach you some that tell the other person, &quot;Hey, you're awesome. I'm going to say each positive interjection two the second time, I want you to say it out loud. someone else who you want to become friends with, &quot;I'm interested in you.&quot; How can you compliment interjections? Let's give it a try. &quot;Wow, that's That's great! That's great! I love that. I that's awesome. Oh my gosh, how fun is that? Oh, really? For real? That's too funny! For real? all of these positive interjections that you're something that that person really cares about&quot;? it shows you are listening. It shows that you so good about themselves. You are complimenting amazing conversations is to have a mindset shift. that every person you speak with has something what that is. Be interested in other people. If conversationalist. If someone says that their my car broke down last week too.&quot; How do you them feel like, &quot;Did you even hear what I said? So, take a step back and be interested in Have you ever been telling someone Maybe you said, &quot;Ah, I just interviewed And then, the other person says, &quot;Oh yeah, Hmm, well, how does that make you feel? Kind excitement because they only want to talk about Well, you don't want to be that kind in what other people have to say and think, curious about and I can't wait to learn more.&quot; use to show that you're genuinely interested I'm going to say them two times. First time, you speak out loud. &quot;How did that happen? How did that What do you think will happen? What do you think made you want to do that? Have you always interested in that?&quot; Great. These phrases show other person has to say. Great, you are on Tip number three for having amazing Listen actively, but listening is usually a But really, active listening means that you are or you're mirroring their words. This is actually taking their words and you are kind of restating growing some new grammar based on what the other If you work in customer service and someone calls product broke, I can't believe it.&quot; You might But they say, &quot;No, I'm just disappointed Well, what word did they use that you didn't use? &quot;No, I'm just disappointed.&quot; ... Great chance for you're so disappointed. Let me do what I can to makes them feel heard. You're actively listening use it yourself to reflect their feelings. This is someone's telling you something that there's a lot it could be something they're worried or Here are some sample phrases that you can use so someone else and that other person feels good You can say, &quot;You must be feeling,&quot; and then add excited about that job interview.&quot; &quot;You must be &quot;You must be feeling really upset that that specifically excited, worried, upset, but correct you and say, &quot;Ah, actually I just feel that's all right. You can mirror that But when you are trying to actively listen you are an wonderful conversationalist. &quot;That must be really nerve-wracking. That awful. That must be,&quot; can you practice that with be really exciting. That must be really awful.&quot; &quot;That sounds really nerve-wracking. That sounds So here, you are trying to pull that emotion Can you say that with me? &quot;That sounds really Uh, that sounds really awful.&quot; Excellent work. with children. If you have young kids or I guess you know that kids exist, I recommend this How To Listen So Kids Will Talk. They also have great way to be able to use active listening at an and also so that your kids hear you and hear you great recommendation. Okay. Let's amazing English conversations. Tip number four can have all the right words, all the right well, you know what that tells the other person? Just kind of bored.&quot; with someone else, I want you to remember, NOSE. N-O-S-E. We'll talk about it in just a second. else. N is nodding, nodding. If you're speaking it seems a little robotic, a little bit like makes you feel a little uncomfortable. So, if you shows that you're listening. It doesn't mean you listening. You're nodding. What about O? O is for with my arms crossed, maybe turned away from you, When your body is open, you don't instead, just having an open posture, your this shows that you care and that you're Did you know that our brains can tell if a Yes, my mouth is making a smiling face, could you tell that I wasn't really Well, the reason why we can tell is because my all the way up to your eyes. If I smile like this, maybe even completely crinkling? That means that So, as someone is speaking, you can be completely, just, feels like a robot, right? But when you're &quot;Oh yeah,&quot; your eyes crinkle a little bit The final E of NOSE is eye contact. In important to maintain eye contact with someone at them the whole time and never look away. But it makes them feel like you don't want to So instead, if you look them in the eyes, and you you are a welcoming and inviting person So, maintain some eye contact. Maybe if that's eye over the other, you don't need to stress nodding, this genuine smile, open posture, and to have excellent conversations. Well, now, shift that other people have interesting things body language, well, congratulations, you great relationships and confidence in yourself. Congratulations on growing your English you can do it. Don't forget to download the free description so that you never forget what you've the next time that you see me when you're walking I'll be there. I'll be asking you questions and Well, thank you so much for learning English with lesson here on my YouTube channel. Bye. PDF worksheet for this lesson. With this and never forget what you have learned. You forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel