You might not have noticed, but we cover an channel. Over the years, we've ranked entire franchises, shamed those that let themselves down. What we've never done, however, is curate opinion, nothing short of brilliant. It's about time that we resolved that issue! For this gargantuan list, we gathered everyone editor, or Fraser, and asked them this simple What games would you recommend absolutely TO BE CLEAR, this isn't a list of the best nor are we actually ranking them, so the game any better than the game at number 101. Instead this list is our way of chronicling a place in our hearts. The only thing we've stipulated is that hardware or the previous one, i.e., any console After all, it wouldn't be very cool of us to get hold of. We will be including remasters and remakes worth playing in their own right. If you don't see one of your all-time favourites only available to play via an emulator. Trust us, we're just as sad about it as Let's get to the entries, shall we? I'm Ben, I'm Peter, and I'm Ashton from that Everyone Should Play At Least Once. 101. The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt (2015) (Xbox One, If you're the sort of person who enjoys or Game of Thrones (you know, before the bad the three mainWitcher games. Most people would agree, however, that The and, what's more, you don't even need The Witcher 3 follows Geralt of Rivia as he woman adopted via the Law of Surprise, all and monsties, and navigating affairs of the CD Projekt's masterpiece was lauded by both storytelling and well-developed characters If all of that sounds like your cup of tea, state on current and previous gen PlayStation Switch and PC. Plus, CD Projekt are hard at work optimising upgrade, which will be free for anyone who be released sometime in 2022. 100. BioShock (2007) (Xbox One, Xbox Series S/X, For those of you who are channel regulars, we've included BioShock among our favourite We've made no secret over the years of the It isn't without good reason though, as lot of things going for it. Set in the underwater city of Rapture, the the isolated dystopia, all while doing his Splicers and hulking Big Daddies. Through the use of the ADAM mechanic (no, give Jack superpowers, allowing him to set more, with just the flick of his wrist. BioShock is a triumph from start to finish, of terrifying characters from the second their Though the original was released during the available to play on more modern machines you kindly give it a go if you haven't already? 99. World of Warcraft (2004) (PC) games that everyone should try at least once MMORPG (or massively multiplayer online roleplaying in an appearance from Simon Miller" about World of Warcraft players start out by choosing features, then head into the all-important Once there, they can choose their race and of all:Do they side with the Alliance or the After that, well, the world (of Warcraft) Naturally, there are more quests than you going to need levelling up, and, being an other people. Our advice is to go out into the world (of some dungeonstogether, and laugh about all back to the local tavern. World of Warcraft is exclusive to PC and does if you feel like trying it, you can play up single penny. 98. The Last of Us (2013) (PS4, PS5) have been done to death, no pun intended, out from the shambling horde. Perhaps the reason that The Last of Us is really a zombie game at heart, but rather setting. Developed by Naughty Dog and released in 2013, man tasked with smuggling teenage girl Ellie Infected with the virus, but showing no symptoms, to find a cure. Not only is the story epic, but every character The relationship between Joel and Ellie in and was made all the more touching by the and Ashley Johnson. The Last of Us is a PlayStation exclusive, you're missing out on a fantastic game. PlayStation owners, however, can pick up a PS4 and PS5, and they'll be able to get 97. Mass Effect 2(2010) (Xbox One, Xbox Series We toyed with the idea of putting all of the but although the trilogy as a whole is excellent, the rest. Assuming the role of Commander Shepard, it's of allies and prevent the insectoid Collectors What's great about Mass Effect 2 is that so great, i.e., the world-building, storytelling, and made the experience better by virtue of Bioware made improvements to the inventory, and integrated the Paragon/Renegade system Though Mass Effect 2 simplified some of thefirst the shooter experience, this ultimately benefitted the combat more satisfying. Although Mass Effect 2 is easily the best Mass Effect and Mass Effect 3 as well. Luckily, a remaster of the trilogy was released Shepard's exploits can experience them on high-definition. We can't recommend you bother with Andromeda 96. Borderlands 2 (2012) (Xbox One, Xbox Series Are you the sort of person who loves bright than your average dragon? Then, OH BOY, do I have a recommendation for Originally released in 2012, Borderlands 2 Hunter, and they must ally themselves with order to defeat the megalomaniacal and devilishly Borderlands 2 is an action-packed romp from unhinged characters of dubious moral alignment, for weeks on end. The scores of ludicrous enemies provide an unique art-style makes players feel like they're book. What's more, the procedurally generated millions of guns, so even the most trigger-happy that's on offer. A remastered version of Borderlands 2 is available machines, and there's even a VR version We also highly recommend picking up an edition on Dragon Keep is a must-play for anyone with games. 95. Pokemon Yellow (1998) (3DS) to look at a game that captured the hearts across the world. Perhaps one of the main reasons that Pokemon games of all time is that it really does have Younger players were enticed by all of the a great deal of fun exploring the many towns Pokemon to become a Pokemon master. The main difference between Yellow and 1996's more closely reflect the anime, so alongside audiences got to meet characters, like Jessie other version. Though the game is now well over 20 years own Pikachu. In 2016, Nintendo re-released Pokemon Yellow all of the old graphics and sound, but introducing to trade their Pokemon with their pals. It is worth noting, however, that the 3DS you're planning on catching 'em all, you'll 94. God of War (2018) (PS4, PS5, PC) we so desperately wanted to include 2005's it is sadly only playable on the PlayStation Consider this an honourable mention though; Unlike its predecessors, 2018's God of War explores Norse mythology. Set several years after the events of God Norway, has remarried, and has a son named Sadly, his new wife has died, and in order must travel to the highest peak of the nine God of War enjoyed a huge amount of success critics with its rich lore and engaging narrative, depiction of Kratos and Atreus' relationship. If you fancy taking up your axe and joining you can do so on PlayStation 4 and 5. God of War was also ported to PC in 2022, you can still get a slice of the mythological 93. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (2007) (Xbox Not only would we like to commend Call of great game, but we must also applaud it for After all, nothing ventured, nothing gained, move more than five feet without tripping 4 had the balls to do something different. The campaign takes place in 2011 and sees in Russia, and conflicts caused by a separatist Eastern country. Taking on the roles of a U.S. Marine sergeant conflicts all around the world. Unlike many other shooters, Modern Warfare minute, you'll be heading into a fight, around on a covert operation. Furthermore, the game's story will have moment they begin the campaign. Originally released during the seventh generation was remastered in 2016, bringing all of the of gamers. 92. Outer Wilds (2019) (Xbox One, Xbox Series There many video games out there that feature but few are quite as special as 2019's Outer The premise is quite simple: In just 22 short by a supernova. Fortunately for our unnamed protagonist, though, the universe explodes, they get to reset. By exploring the solar system and learning about a long-extinct alien race known as the cause of the time loop. The player is left to find things for themselves That's all part of the charm of Outer Wilds, key pieces of the puzzle and everything starts Unsurprisingly, Outer Wilds was nominated Academy Game Awards and a Golden Joystick. Though it originally launched on PC and Xbox PS4, and can also be played on the current Good news for Switch players, as well, as Resident Evil (2002) (Xbox One, Xbox Series Though it may not have been the first survival deny the impact that Resident Evil had on Resident Evil was originally released in 1996, and a whole load of additional content. The game sees Special Tactics and Rescue Service trapped inside the imposing Spencer Mansion hordes of mindless zombies. After choosing to control either Chris or solve a series of puzzles in order to uncover whole sorry tale. Though they are armed, both Chris and Jill that carrying enough reserves of ammo and will often need to carefully choose whether Resident Evil is able to maintain a consistent throughout its entire runtime, so if you're also get that grey matter flexing, then there's Though the Resident Evil remake was initially ported to a number of different consoles. These days, it can be downloaded on Xbox One 90. Fallout 3 (2008) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Before Fallout 3 was released in 2008, it gotten to enjoy a major instalment of the In the ten years since Fallout 2, the franchise work overhauling the series into something it was in a good way. Gone were the 2D isometric graphics and turn-based shiny new 3D graphics and the V.A.T.S. combat system. Set 200 years after the Great War, players Wanderer as they set out into the wasteland Despite its technical issues, Fallout 3 was a hugely interactive RPG experience. The combination of the barren setting with in the harsh, post-apocalyptic world, whilst fun and engaging. Those looking to try their hand at surviving and previous generation, and PC, though PlayStation order to be able to soak in all of that radiation. We don't recommend actually exposing yourself very good for your health. 89. Mega Man 2 (1988) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Although Mega Man is now a gaming icon, his The OG Mega Man from 1987 was received well well, particularly in the West, Capcom were They eventually did give Mega Man 2 the green teams working on the game did so alongside the title in their own time. Their hard work and dedication paid off, however, huge success, impressing critics, and selling Mega Man 2 once again pits the titular hero in the previous game, has created a whole best our little blue hero. Despite being over three decades old, Mega much every modern platform. Fans of the retro title can pick the game which bundles together the first six Mega average takeaway. Bargain! 88. Sonic the Hedgehog 2 (1992) (Xbox One, Xbox We're sticking with the retro theme for protagonist, only this time, he's a real Unperturbed by his previous defeat at the Dr. Robotnik returns in Sonic the Hedgehog more. Yet again, he's after the Chaos Emeralds, to thwart his evil scheme. Following the success of Sonic the Hedgehog, of the sequel, and it did not disappoint. The levels were well-designed and fun to play, and Sonic's new companionwas well-received In fact, really the only fault that anyone it was a bit on the easy side, but let's Sonic 2, that doesn't really matter. Sonic's second outing has been ported to (and believe us, we're basically pro stick stuck for places to play the game. Currently, it's available on PC, Xbox One 87. Nier: Automata (2017) (Xbox One, Xbox Series With most of us being Northerners here at game, we like to know that we're getting a consideration when it comes to picking up With that said, there's replayability, and has to be played several times to be fully Nier: Automata is set in the year 11945AD, and a machine army from another world. Players take on the roles of several of the they'll explore different facets of Nier: Aside from its rich, complex narrative, players of the action and RPG genres, its beautiful its fun hack-and-slash combat mechanics. Nier: Automata was originally released for in 2018, PLUS it can be downloaded on both all round. Unless you don't have any of those machines, very good news at all. 86. Hollow Knight (2017) (Xbox One, Xbox Series One of the great things about the rise of have previously struggled to get their projects the help of backers willing to invest a few In recent years, crowdfunding campaigns have titles, and one of our personal favourites An action-adventure title of the Metroidvania the world following a successful Kickstarter Team Cherry. The game's protagonist is the titular Knight, which drove the citizens of Hallownest to Fair warning; Hollow Knight is challenging. Some players have gone as far as to liken while there is certainly a steep learning the atmospheric setting, compelling narrative, If you are up for the challenge, Hollow Knight and the previous one, and regardless of which if slightly tough, time. 85. Undertale (2015) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, If you don't know anything about it, you is nothing more than just another indie RPG. This could not be further from the truth though, with an awful lot of heart. Undertale tells the story of a small child the Underground; a place beneath the surface By either fighting or pacifying said monsties, to make their way home. The game has received praise from both critics and characters to its combat and music. What's perhaps most impressive, however, by the efforts of one man, Toby Fox, who developed soundtrack. Golly, he must get up very early in the morning. Undertale was originally released for the to PlayStation and Xbox. Prefer your Undertale experience on the move? That's fine, because you can also play it 84. Batman: Arkham Asylum (2009) (Xbox One, Xbox Like most popular superheroes, Batman's games over the years, but though many of them and shoulders above the rest is Rocksteady's The 2009 title follows everyone's favourite Asylum and attempts to thwart the Joker's On this occasion, Joker has trapped Batman that can't stand the sight of him, planted with annihilation should anyone attempt to Not only is Arkham Asylum the best Batman being the best superhero game ever made. This is no doubt down to its stunning visuals, stealth, and outstanding voice performances and Mark Hamill. If you're desperate to squeeze your buttocks then you can play the remastered version of and 5, and PC. Or you can actually don a latex suit and go 83. Deadly Premonition (2010) (Xbox One, Xbox There have been a number of games over the whacky murder mystery, Twin Peaks, but if be Deadly Premonition. Released in 2010, Deadly Premonition puts Francis York Morgan. The game takes place in the fictional town get to the bottom of a young woman's murder. To say that Deadly Premonition divided critics Guinness World Record for being the most critically Some outlets bashed everything from its controls it for just how weird it is. Don't get us wrong; we know that Deadly going to enjoy because it is, for want of a title that everyone should experience at Though the game can be played on the PC, the recommend you bother with Deadly Premonition: Deadly Premonition Origins, on the other hand, on the Nintendo Switch. You can also find the original 360 version in playing on the Xbox. 82. Super Mario 64 (1996) (Wii U, Switch) You didn't think we'd make a list of 101 at least one shout-out to the world's most What do you take us for? There was some debate down at TripleJump Towers 101 (spoiler alert: this isn't the last on this list). The title that came up time and time again, 64. The title saw Mario make the leap into 3D his beloved Princess Peach from perennial In order to rescue the damsel in distress, Peach's castle, collecting Power Stars as Some are just out in the open, whilst others or race an opponent. Critics were hugely impressed by Super Mario of the gameplay, and just how fun it wasoverall. Feel like stepping up to the plate to save Well, luckily for you, Super Mario 64 is available for the Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion of classic titles, including... 81. The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (1998) I'm pretty pleased with that segue, not Another Nintendo series that provoked much and as much as we'd have liked to have included except for those horrid Philips CD-I efforts), There was no doubt in anyone's mind, however, we went with, Ocarina of Time would be amongst The fifth game in The Legend of Zelda series to try to reverse the evil that has been brought Throughout the game, players can use the titular each of which helps Link to solve a variety to banishing Ganondorf's evil from the world. According to review aggregator Metacritic, best game ever made, boasting a frankly staggering As we've already mentioned, Zelda fans seeking the game bundled in with the Switch Online on the Wii U and the 3DS. 80. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (2003) Over the years, there have been more Star at. There's one, however, that topped the list (as well as, spoiler alert, our Every Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Set some 4000 years before the formation of players get to create their very own Force-user Regardless of whether or not you're a Star will fight you) KOTOR has something for everyone. The game's story is perfectly in keeping being accessible for even those who don't Additionally, the RPG elements and combat not so much so that they'd turn off newer The original game can be played on Xbox One, Before you Sony fans go getting all upset is currently in the works that is set to release similar it will be to the original, we can't We're good, but we're not that good. 79. Uncharted 2: Among Thieves (2009) (PS4, PS5) like to go out into the world and search for you're a massive introvert who would rather probably quite like the Uncharted series. All of the games are pretty good, but there all else: Uncharted 2: Among Thieves, and Cheeky chappy Nathan Drake returns in Uncharted the Cintamani Stone and the city of Shambhala. Upon its release, Uncharted 2 was universally and players praising the game for its visual of Nathan Drake by little-known voice actor He's not been in much; I wouldn't be surprised Uncharted 2 was originally released as a PlayStation invest in a Sony machine in order to experience Fortunately, there's no need to trawl through game has been remastered, and can now be played 78. Halo: Combat Evolved (2001) (Xbox One, Xbox When Microsoft launched the original Xbox that would ensure the console made its mark Halo: Combat Evolved help them do just that. The game is set in the 26th century, by which humans to hop around the universe, colonizing Old habits die hard, I guess. Players jump into the fancy green armour of uncovering the secrets of the ringworld, Halo. Naturally, there are other beings interested not all friendly E.T. sorts. Halo: Combat Evolved won numerous game of of 97 out of 100 on Metacritic, and is often The Halo series is a Microsoft exclusive, his quest to defeat the Covenant will need a PC. The game is available as part of the Master 2, 3, ODST, Reach, and 4, which is, in our 77. Portal (2007) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, If we could choose to make one piece of video be the Portal gun. Think of the possibilities! You could get a beer out of the fridge without down to a fraction of the time, commit that the scene instantaneously... Oh Gosh, this took a dark turn. Sadly, science doesn't seem particularly and so I must make do with playing Portal This fantastic puzzler was first released 2: Episode 2 was the headline act, Portal player. It was like getting to the bottom of an ice brownie. Yum yum. By traversing a series of test chambersusing fires a pair of interconnected portals, protagonist Facility. The puzzles start out simple enough, but quickly progresses. Think you can best the chambers and escape If so, then Portal: Still Alive is available players can also get a slice of the action Companion Collection, and PC players can still 76. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2006) (Xbox One, Though Todd Howard seems to have forgotten existence besides Skyrim, we have not, and who loves a bit of sword and sorcery has a And let's face it, who doesn't love a Oblivion takes place within Cyrodiil, and to thwart the plans of a fanatical cult who and unleash whatever nasties lie within. The game transports players to a meticulously moreorless, as they please. Obviously, the main questline should probably railroads players into doing it, and they're fit. Save an artist trapped in his own painting, finding a load ofNirnroot for Sinderion. Tamriel really is your oyster. It's bad news once again for PlayStation Stans available to play on Xbox One, Xbox Series You never know though; once Bethesda have device in the known universe, they might give I wouldn't hold your breath though. 75. Half-Life 2 (2004) (PC) sexy boys, then we've got a game that ticks Set roughly twenty years after the first game rather good), Half-Life 2 sees Gordon Freeman a multidimension empire, has conquered Earth Guess who's been left to clean up this big Why, Gordon has, of course. Half-Life 2 is part-first-person shooter, to use their brains and their brawn if they've Don't worry, Gordon, we hear you can get Though the game got perfect scores more or praise for its graphics and physics, which, fairness, still hold up alongside titles of Although Half-Life 2 has previously seen releases days, it's only available on PC. The good news, though, is that PC players only includes Half-Life 2 and Episodes 1 &amp; 2, Fortress 2. A bargain at twice the price! 74. Dead Space (2008) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, They say that "in space, no one can hear people will definitely hear your shrieks of The game follows protagonist Isaac Clarke the hopes of finding out what happened to medical officer. Not only does he have various alien nasties the escalating psychosis in his own mind. Though it bears a science-fiction setting, giants like Resident Evil and Silent Hill, and pitting them against the hostile Necromorphs Put simply: Dead Space is truly scary. Through its setting, gameplay mechanics, sound, an insanely tense atmosphere that lingers Both Dead Space and its sequel, Dead Space horror. The franchise's third entry is fine, though EA's part, it eschews horror in favour of If you've got a pair of brown trousers that you can get your fright fix on the Xbox Series or on PC. 73. Limbo (2010) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, We're going to caveat this entry with a but it's one to avoid if you're already Definitely play it at least once in your life, ready. We don't want to be responsible for any In terms of its narrative and art style, Limbo The game follows a young boy as he travels to find his sister. Beyond that, however, it's down to the player see fit; is the boy simply looking for his all? On the surface, Limbo may not look like much, engaging gameplay into its short runtime, and terrifying enemies. These days, Limbo can be found on pretty much of whether you're on team Xbox, PlayStation, many feelings of existential dread brought Enjoy those, you've earned them. 72. Grand Theft Auto V (2013) (Xbox One, Xbox Do you like doing crimes but find that going Then you need some Grand Theft Auto in your We did toy with the idea of sticking GTA IV it does lose a number of marks for having five minutes to invite you out bowling. GTA V not only lacks the irritating relatives has three multidimensional protagonists that Throughout the game, players jump into the and Trevor Philips, a trio of criminals of to their numerous illegal exploits. Grand Theft Auto V currently sits at a whopping praising its multi-protagonist formula, its open world. It would probably be quicker to list all of Auto V since, by this point, the game has of consoles. For the sake of clarity, however, we're both Xbox Series and Xbone, PS4 and 5, and 71. Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped (1998) (Xbox One, We couldn't possibly make a list of our a nod to everyone's favourite wisecracking Taking place shortly after the events of the 3: Warped (or simply Crash Bandicoot: Warped follows Crash and his younger sister, Coco, plans of Doctor Neo Cortex. After Cortex's space station crash lands and Coco must travel through time in order before Cortex, Doctor Nefarious Tropy, and We chose Crash Bandicoot 3 over its predecessors it. The graphics were cleaner and more detailed, the sound design was top-notch. Don't get us wrong, the series' first whole package. Though the original game was only released pick up the remake as part of the N. Sane Switch, and PC. 70. Minecraft (2011) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, In most instances, if you were to play a game little in the way of combat, you probably If the game you're playing is Minecraft, of your life just mining enough diamonds to Nobody told you to do it, and yet here you Creating your own fun by mining for materials Players are plopped into a blocky, procedurally-generated Trees can be punched and turned into work tools. From there they can obtain ore, make better like. Build a house, farm some animals, or just it really is all up to you. If you own an electronic device, then it's The game is available on current and previous on the Switch, Wii U, and PC. Those favouring a portable experience can Nintendo 3DS. 69. The Last of Us: Part II (2020) (PS4, PS5) play The Last of Us without also recommending well. Part II is set five years after the events Joel have settled into a community of survivors It's not long before their peaceful life on a journey seeking justice and vengeance. The Last of Us: Part II took what its predecessor The result is a deep, emotional story, fantastic graphics and sound. The game also received universal acclaim for given by Ashley Johnson as Ellie and Laura a British Academy Game Award and a TGA for Those keen to see what Joel and Ellie have Us can find out by picking up a copy of The 5. Those playing on the current gen will get to experience all of the horrors in glorious 68. Detroit: Become Human (2018) (PS4, PS5, PC) name in the gaming community. Some consider the man to be somewhat of an ideas and no substance. Upon its release in 2018, Detroit: Become We highly recommend that you ignore the naysayers well worth your time. Detroit: Become Human is set in the not-too-distant Androids have replaced much of the human workforce unusually. The story follows three androids; Kara, who to free other androids from servitude, and Critics praised Detroit: Become Human's as its handling of difficult topics such as human. Although Detroit: Become Human was a PlayStation since been ported to PC, so there's no need play it. Not that you can rush out to buy a PS5, considering but you know what I mean. 67. Halo Reach (2010) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, "Two Halos in one list?" I hear you cry, "Have you gone mad, TripleJump?" Nope, we haven't lost our minds, it's Microsoft sure know their way around a first-person Oh, and spoiler alert, this won't be the either. Sorry, not sorry. First released in 2010, Halo Reach is a direct Players take on the role of Noble Six, an The game follows the squad as they make their Reach, the last line of defence before Earth. Some critics have gone as far as to call Halo it's very easy to see why. Players jumping into the game can expect a visuals that are nothing short of breath-taking, cast of characters. The original was released for the Xbox 360; on a remastered version of Halo Reach thanks can be found on Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, 66. Spyro the Dragon (1998) (Xbox One, Xbox Series For many of us, Spyro the Dragon is so much he's the mascot of our childhoods. He was the reason we rushed home from school early on a Saturday morning, and why our mums "the Nintendo." [off-mic] Gosh dang it, Mum, it's a PlayStation! Put simply, he is nostalgia in a sassy purple The first game in the series stars the eponymous in order to defeat the dastardly Gnasty Gnorc. On his way, he must free the rest of the dragons, How rude. Though Spyro the Dragon is aimed at children, of the other games on this list, it's still Each of the five Homeworlds boasts a unique offer keeps the gameplay nice and interesting. The original Spyro was a PlayStation exclusive, can be enjoyed in stunning high-definition Trilogy. The remake, which also includes Spyro 2: Ripto's found on Xbox One and Series, PlayStation 65. Yakuza 0 (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, We're big fans of Yakuza here at Team TripleJump, series' main titles on this list, we would That wouldn't have been very fair to all and so, instead, we've picked our favourite: For the record, you should definitely play Released in 2015, Yakuza 0 is a prequel to events of the OG Yakuza. The game follows Kazuma Kiryu and Goro Majima various Yakuza factions, each of whom seeks Lot". Though real estate negotiations might not for a game, you've got to remember that tend to settle their arguments with guns and Not only is Yakuza 0 incredibly accessible, but it's also an awful lot of fun to play. The story is interesting, the combat harkens whole thing is peppered with Yakuza's proprietary If any of that sounds like your cup of sake, PlayStation 4 and 5, and PC. 64. Dark Souls (2011) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X, To say that Dark Souls is a game that everyone but it is definitely a title that everyone The combat is incredibly punishing, but try that, there's a world of rich lore that's Players start by creating their own character By speaking to NPCs, collecting items, and the history of the world and figure out who Players and critics alike praised Dark Souls and its level of challenge, which many felt Besting an enemy that's taken a few tries It was even named the "Ultimate Game of beating the likes of Minecraft, Half-Life Feeling up for the challenge? You can play the remastered version of Dark Xbox One and Series, PS4 and 5, and Nintendo Fret not, PC players, because Dark Souls Remastered a lot better than that shoddy PC port that We do not speak of the shoddy port. 63. Spider-Man (2018) (PS4, PS5) many to be the best superhero game ever made, second? After all, whilst it's great to explore and hallucinate your Bat-nips off, it's City like you don't have a care in the world. Though it draws from Marvel Comics and other tells a completely new story. Supervillain Mister Negative is looking to and threatens to unleash a deadly virus upon It's up to Spider-Man to put a stop to his of Peter Parker's many problems. Even if you're not a massive fan of superheroes, The story is engaging, the combat is fast-paced, web-swinging mechanic makes for a gosh-darned If you're desperate for your Spidey fix, 4 or 5 because 2018's Spider-Man is a console Can't get enough of Peter Parker? Well, the good news is that a sequel is in be back in 2023. 62. TimeSplitters 2 (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S) remember our fallen comrade, TimeSplitters. We enjoyed your company very much whilst you not long for this world. You may be gone, but you shall never be forgotten. Thankfully, the original TimeSplitters is time, as both TimeSplitters 2 and TimeSplitters: generation. The first sequel is our fave, though, hence TimeSplitters 2 consists of ten different to stop the evil TimeSplitters from ruining In order to do so, they must collect crystals all the way through the 25th Century. Upon its release, TimeSplitters 2 received are starting to look a little dated, the gameplay We recommend getting a couple of friends 'round hit. Though TimeSplitters 2 was originally available it is now unavailable on modern PlayStation Fortunately, backwards compatibility has come those heady days of playing TimeSplitters 61. Ghost of Tsushima (PS4, PS5) time that's full of action, suspense, and just get a kick out of Ghost of Tsushima. Set in the year 1274, Ghost of Tsushima follows the island of Tsushima from the invading Mongol Unable to defeat the invaders through traditional land to recruit allies and must learn guerrilla against the Mongols. The game features a stunning open world that Though the story and gameplay are both brilliant, of Tsushima something special. The entire world has been meticulously designed, truly breath-taking to behold. Ghost of Tsushima was originally released has since been released on both the PS4 and If you don't own a PlayStation, then you're a film adaptation of the game was announced You'll be pleased to know that, at least to do with it. 60. Pikmin 3 (2013) (Wii U, Switch) turn of the millennium, but the first game to play. Both are still available to download on the it won't be long until they become basically Though both games are great, it's difficult readily available in a few months' time. All is not lost though, as Pikmin 3 is just on the current generation. Hooray! In Pikmin 3, players can cycle between characters PNF-404 in order to find fruit seeds that Whilst there, they befriend the Pikmin, a aid them in their quest. Players can command the Pikmin to combat enemies, the game's numerous puzzles. Pikmin 3 was first released in 2013 on the The port features a brand-new prologue and play in story mode, and brings back the Piklopedia As if all of that weren't enough, it also You can, of course, still buy the game on but we'd recommend opting for the Switch buck. 59. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe (2017) (Switch) in 1992, the Mario Kart series has been delighting roster of familiar Nintendo characters, colourful 2014's entry into the franchise, Mario Kart and wraps them up in a shiny package for modern 2017's Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, though, is the tweaks and all of the DLC from the original. It boasts dozens of playable characters, with of Zelda's Link getting in on the action, If that's not enough to keep you occupied, they would be releasing an additional 48 tracks This brightly-coloured, fast-paced racer is got two or more people in a room. It's simple enough for the kiddos to get to keep the adults entertained for hours on So, gather your friends and challenge them All you'll need is a Nintendo Switch (and Whilst we can guarantee you'll have fun, won't be any fallings out when you deploy from one of your mates. 58. Elden Ring (2022) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, We made absolutely no secret of how excited at Team TripleJump, and it's safe to say We are still waiting for our promotional Elden It must have gotten lost in the post. Yeah, that'll be it. Players are transported to the realm of the has been shattered and its shards scattered The player character is a Tarnished; an exile it's up to them to restore the Elden Ring It's kind of like The Lord of the Rings, Like Dark Souls and Bloodborne before it, players who explore and investigate all that Though the combat is tough, it isn't completely By no means would we say that Elden Ring is exploration, various options for overcoming might make it a little less daunting for those previous titles. Are you ready to become the Elden Lord? If so, then you can grab a copy of Elden Ring PlayStation 5, and PC. Oh, and one last piece of advice: "Try fingers, You'll know what I mean when you get to 57. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 (2000) (Xbox One, Skateboarding is a really hard sport to get to master the ollie as youngsters, our efforts Developer Neversoft clearly recognised that who wanted to feel the rush of skateboarding got in touch with the Birdman himself, and The first game was great, but the sequel was Pro Skater did and building upon it with better mechanics such as cash rewards and the ability Plus, the soundtrack was banging from beginning Obviously, we can't play any of it or we'll that this royalty-free interlude is Rage Against [pause for musical interlude] released on pretty much every console that through to the Game Boy Advance.These days to come by (by non-questionable means, at Luckily, Vicarious Visions and Activision in 2020. Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1 + 2 can be found Switch, and PC, and is a heck of a lot safer 56. Soulcalibur II (2002) (Xbox One, Xbox Series It's time to throw some hands now as we II, the third instalment in Project Soul and The year is 1590AD, and following an unsuccessful the sword has shattered. Seeking to either destroy the sword or unite on a journey to find the pieces, while Nightmare he himself can restore Soul Edge once more Like most fighting games, Soulcalibur II pits enemies and tasks them with giving them a Most characters from the first game have returned have been introduced. In addition to the multitudes of different of game modes for players to pick from. Play through the story in Arcade Mode, fight load of folks involved with Versus Team Battle. It's been twenty years since Soulcalibur version is quite hard to come by these days. Luckily, in 2013 it got a nice, shiny, HD Modern gamers can now find it on the Xbox 55. Red Dead Redemption 2 (2018) (Xbox One, Xbox Before we get into what a great game Red Dead that its inclusion on this list over its predecessor Red Dead Redemption is a very good game, and but, in our opinion at least, Red Dead Redemption The game is set in the year 1899, just as This is bad news for Arthur Morgan, an outlaw life thus far by taking what isn't his and With their lifestyle threatened by the progression decide that the only thing left to do is try last heist" to retire away from the watchful Both critics and players alike were hugely open world, its graphics, its gameplay, and Unlike many large games, which can begin to after playing for several hours, RDR2 doesn't Every environment is well-crafted, every character are varied and engaging. So, what are you waiting for? Grab your cowboy hat and your six-shooter You can find Red Dead Redemption 2 on Xbox Yee-haw! 54. Disco Elysium (2019) (Xbox One, Xbox Series If you've ever played a tabletop roleplaying No matter how poorly they treat you, though, them, week after week. It's like Stockholm Syndrome, but with lots If you find yourself wishing that you could of your life, namely video games, then you Disco Elysium. Players take on the role of Harry DuBois, The game begins with Harry awakening in a He has no memory of who or where he is, and and a serious lack of trousers. Upon emerging from his room, he learns that of a man who has been found hanged behind Over the course of the game, players must inhabitants in order to unravel the mystery. Unlike traditional RPGs, Disco Elysium doesn't Instead, everything Harry does relies on skill As in a number of TTRPGs, there are things at, and much of his fate rests on the roll If you're feeling lucky, uh, punk, then of Disco Elysium on Xbox One, Series, PS4, May the odds be ever in your favour. Perfect Dark (2000) (Xbox One, Xbox Series We would have loved to have given a spot on 007. Sadly, though, unless you happen to have an when it comes to playing it these days. Fortunately, we are able to recommend GoldenEye as it's still available to play on modern Hooray! The game is set in the distant future of 2023, conflict between two alien species: the Maians Christ, as though the past couple of years war to contend with. Unsurprisingly, corporations such as dataDyne and it's down to Carrington Institute agent open. Upon its release, Perfect Dark received widespread its gameplay. Most agreed that, from a technical standpoint, right and made it bigger and better. Though it lacked some of the innovation of video gaming. The original version of Perfect Dark was a was released for the Xbox 360 in 2010. It can be picked up these days on the Xbox part of Rare Replay, which comes with the developer Rare. Absolute bargain! 52. Metroid Prime (2002) (Wii U) to fight intergalactic nasties, but your fear have, thus far, prevented you from doing so? Well, you can scratch that itch by simply As with the rest of the series, Metroid Prime After intercepting a distress signal from to find that its entire crew have been slaughtered had been working on. Someone's going to have to clean up this have any prior social engagements. Metroid Prime received universal critical for how successfully it managed to modernise whilst still retaining the series' essence. As it stands, Metroid Prime is currently only Trilogy on the Wii U. As the Wii U eShop closes in March 2023, those need to get to it sooner rather than later, re-release the game on more modern platforms. Metroid Prime 4 is in the works though, so the series will get some sort of revival. Fingers crossed. 51. Resident Evil 4 (2005) (Xbox One, Xbox Series If we'd have left it up to our writers, been taken up by titles from the Resident That wouldn't make for very interesting pick just two. They ultimately settled on Resident Evil, Evil 4. It's been several years since the Raccoon working for the U.S. government. The president's daughter has been kidnapped leader intends to use the Las Plagas parasite If Leon's got any hope of rescuing the young the fray. Spain's quite nice this time of year, though, Unlike the series' previous titles, Resident The horror is definitely still there, and much present (did someone order the green horror that the franchise was known for. Players will still have to be careful with exactly abundant, but there won't be that an enemy. So go ahead and shoot that nasty, chainsaw Resident Evil 4 was originally released on pretty much anywhere you can play video games. 50. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain (2015) [sung badly]Wooooaaahhh, we're halfway there, Sorry, couldn't resist. There were a whole bunch of Metal Gear games list, and we have to give a special shout-out game that was, until late 2021, available Sadly, due to licensing issues, the Metal digital storefronts, and there's no indication As upsetting as this news is though, at least Pain. Though there was an awful lot going on between of Metal Gear Solid V, it still ended up being Set almost a decade prior to the original of Venom Snake, who is on a quest for vengeance Ground Zeroes. Upon its release, The Phantom Pain received and professional reviewers alike lauded the They also praised the performances of the Baker and Mr. 24 himself, Kiefer Sutherland, game. Hideo Kojima's final Metal Gear game was 360 and One, and PC, and is now also available 49. Kirby's Adventure (1993) (, Wii U, Switch, Ever since he first appeared in 1992's Kirby's has been a favourite of fans the world over. Whilst the debut of Kirby was an awful lot is considered by most to be the superior title. We join Kirby as he attempts to track down by King Dedede. Kirby believes that Dedede has stolen the it so that it can once again power the Fountain Kirby's Adventure is not only an incredibly but it is also the first time that Kirby is which he can absorb the powers of those he Players agreed that the addition of this mechanic Adventure a whole lot more than Kirby's Though it was originally released for the version of Kirby's Adventure is available Switch, Wii U or a 3DS. As mentioned previously though:the Wii U and plan on snagging the title via the Switch 48. Tetris Effect: Connected (1984) (Xbox One, We feel like, by this point, there are very Tetris at some point in their lives. The simple-yet-addictive puzzle game burst to almost every electronic device with a screen If you're unfamiliar with Tetris (and if I assume you're new here), the premise is Players start with an empty grid, which slowly if you wanna get technical about this) that The idea is to move the shapes so that they a row, it will disappear, freeing up space Filling a row grants points, and when a certain up a level. There have been dozens of versions of Tetris not, and the game has appeared on everything A great version to pick up these days is Tetris on the classic title, retaining the core gameplay 21st century with outstanding visuals, an If you're in the mood for a bit of blocky on the Xbox One and Series, PS4 and 5, Nintendo 47. Final Fantasy VII (1997) (Xbox One, Xbox Series In 1987 Square Enix released a game for the Just a year later, however, audiences found that that title was not, in fact, the final Where do the lies end, Square? Obviously, I jest, and over the years, the to strength, earning itself millions upon Most agree though, that the franchise's Players jump into the shoes if the Buster eco-terrorist group AVALANCHE and attempts draining the planet of its life essence, which He and his allies must also face the psychotic of Shinra who seeks to destroy the world. Thanks to its wonderfully rich and engaging cast of instantly lovable characters, Final the greatest games of all time. A remake of the first part of Final Fantasy have estimated that the next chapter will at the time of writing, nothing is confirmed. Those unwilling to wait for the remake can modern machines, including Xbox One, Series PC. 46. Hitman: Blood Money (2006) (Xbox One, Xbox Although the Hitman series has been regularly wasn't until 2006 that the franchise gave for a list such as this one. Don't get us wrong, the first three Hitman but none of them hold a candle to Hitman: The assassin Agent 47 makes his triumphant taking on the Franchise, a rival contract and seeks to get their grubby hands on the Though its advertisementsgeneratedsomecontroversy victims, the actual game was incredibly well Perhaps most notably, Blood Money garnered options that each level gave to players, meaning it came to the method of killing the targets, Think you've got what it takes to make it The original version of the game can be found kills in stunning high definition though, which comes with both Blood Money and Hitman: the PlayStation 4 and 5. 45. Unpacking (2021) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, If I were to tell you that a game that simulates an absolute must-play, you'd probably think That's exactly what 2021's Unpacking is the whole experience is thoroughly entertaining. The game begins in a child's bedroom, and find a place for everything. Some items can only go in certain places, putting everything away. The game is not just an unpacking simulator, incredibly subtly. There is no dialogue and very little in the has happened in the protagonist's life through they move to, and it's hugely exciting to Unpacking can be finished in a single afternoon, of adorable stickers, gives players the opportunity Players will come for the retro art style, but will stay for the plot, even if only to plushie. If you're feeling like a bit of organisation can be found on Xbox One and Series, Switch, 44. Devil May Cry (2001) (Xbox One, Xbox Series Here's a fun fact for you: Did you know Cry as Resident Evil 4, but it didn't really a brand-new IP instead. See? You can't say we never teach you anything Based very, very loosely on the epic poem on demon hunter Dante, named after Dante Alighieri, through the afterlife. After meeting a woman named Trish, Dante embarks the nasty boy responsible for the deaths of At the time of its release, Devil May Cry gameplay and visuals, and though both may Devil May Cry is still worth your time. Dante himself is a very likable protagonist, to resonate with anyone who had a bit of an most of us did). Reckon you're ready to take on the legions You can pick up a remastered version of Devil as part of the Devil May Cry HD Collection, 5, Switch, and PC. 43. What Remains of Edith Finch (2017) (Xbox One, Over the years, we video game fans have become action, so it can be a little strange when to take their time to carefully explore their We'd like to assure you though, that although by some as a "walking simulator," such it entirely accurate, and the title is very The aim of What Remains of Edith Finch is home and piece together a number of events day. They are all connected to a central theme: and doomed to die young. Upon its release in 2017, What Remains of audiences giving particular praise to its Players won't find any high-speed car chases they will get from What Remains of Edith Finch will keep them glued to their screens for Want to know exactly what does remain of Edith You can find out on Xbox One, Xbox Series PC. 42. The Walking Dead (2012) (Xbox One, Xbox Series Prior to the studio's closure in 2018, Telltale story-based adventures based on some of the Their takes on Game of Thrones, Batman, and the studio's work, but it's 2012's The of most of us here at Team TripleJump. We have nothing against Telltale's other Season One is the best of the bunch. Players take on the role of Lee, a man who occurs. He soon finds Clementine, a little girl who left with a babysitter. The pair form an unlikely partnership, and the hordes of walkers, but numerous hostile The game weaves a number of very human stories expect to make an awful lot of difficult choices It's worth bearing in mind, though, that there are also a great deal of heart-warming If you think you could survive the zombie Dead: The Complete First Season on Xbox One, course, PC. 41. Journey (2012) (PS4, PS5, PC) That very quickly shot to fame Become some guy in robes He's got to get to that mountain way over [record scratch]That's quite enough of that. If we had to sum up 2012's Journey in just Actually, I'd better check with one of the [off mic] Philip? Is "awe-inspiring" one word or two? He says it's hyphenated, so I think we're As one might assume from the title, the game has them making their way towards a distant Along the way, you may meet other players communicate with each other except through Despite this, it's very easy to become attached a single word, and won't know each other's Both the PS3 and PS4 versions of the game of 100 on Metacritic, and Journey received to its music and sound design. Those looking to embark on this awe-inspiring 4 and 5. If you don't happen to own either of those that Journey was also released on PC in 2019. 40. Life is Strange (2015) (Xbox One, Xbox Series Do you like making choices? Do you like making lots of choices? Do you like making lots of choices that could Then, oh boy, do I have a recommendation for Life is Strange centres on Max, a teenage time. As the game progresses, Max is placed into her power to alter the outcome. As an example, at the beginning of the game, bathroom, but is able to rewind time in order She's also faced with several choices throughout out. Choosing to do something like comforting an have massive consequences further down the Upon its release in 2015, Life is Strange story, multi-dimensional characters, and gameplay What was perhaps most impressive, though, that mattered, even if the outcome wasn't If you're up for a spot of time manipulation, of Life is Strange on Xbox One and Series, Or, if you'd prefer slightly shinier graphics, version on all of the aforementioned platforms 39. Final Fantasy X (2001) (Xbox One, Xbox Series If Final Fantasy VII is our absolute favourite Fantasy X comes in at a very close second. For the series' tenth numbered outing, players set out on a quest to defeat the rampaging The game's protagonist is the Blitzball affair when Sin destroys Zanarkand, his home Alongside several other playable characters, too late. Not only were players treated to an epic tale enjoy a fully voice-acted Final Fantasy title Taylor, Tara Strong, and John DiMaggio lending Final Fantasy X also received a great deal mechanics that had, in previous games, been In particular, the updated combat system and were called out as welcome additions to the Despite being over twenty years old, you can a remastered version, on most current and The game is available on Xbox One, Series Vita. 38. Celeste (2018) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Mental health problems are something that and though some days may be a walk in the scale a mountain. These are exactly the feelings that game developer Celeste. The game tells the story of Madeline, a young Mount Celeste, all whilst struggling with Madeline's fight to overcome the mountain, her depression and anxiety, is representative identity that Thorson was facing in her own players. In terms of gameplay, Celeste is a platformer, air dash through the levels in order to guide Players can also find collectables as they affect the game's ending, cassette tapes and crystal hearts that can be used to access Celeste can be found pretty much anywhere of whether you're Team PlayStation, Nintendo, of the mountain-climbing action. Before you rush out to buy a copy though, your mental health, you're not alone, and 37. Gears of War (2006) (Xbox One, Xbox Series According to a very small minority of hardcore Xbox because Microsoft has "no exclusives." The Gears of War series hears that sentiment arguments there is for going out right this We could have chosen any of the franchise's you can't go far wrong with the title that Gears of War is set on the planet Sera, and attempt to end a war against a race of genocidal few humans remain on the planet. Back when it was released in 2006, Gears of Admittedly, it doesn't bring much new to its gameplay, but everything it tries to do, space-romp that's a fantastically fun way After all, isn't that what we're all here As we've already mentioned, the game is a PC or an Xbox, then sadly, there's no If you do happen to have a PC or an Xbox One, You get to revel in all of the shooty-shooty Edition. 36. Doom (2016) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, The original Doom from 1993 is considered of the modern FPS genre, and for good reason. At the time of its release, it was refreshingly standards, it looks a little simplistic, it's Doom had on many games that have come since. Of course, we recommend giving the OG Doom reason than that it's a piece of gaming we reckon absolutely everyone should play, In the series' triumphant return, players known only as the Doom Slayer, and must take unleased within an energy mining facility In terms of its tone, Doom 2016 was a drastic took on several elements from the survival Here, players can expect an action-packed game, all set to a pounding heavy metal soundtrack. If you like space, guns, and shooting demons most certainly the game for you. You can jump into the heavily-armoured shoes consoles, as well as on PC. By "all modern consoles" we obviously 35. Quake (1996) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, Are you in the market for a dark and gritty Lovecraft vibes and a soundtrack written by Well, first of all, that's really a quite just the thing! Quake sees players thrust into a world in technology. Naturally, there are beasties out there who it isn't long before the mysterious Quake the human one, and begin sending in death You, yes you, must take on the role of Ranger, in order to collect four magic runes and stop Quake received universal critical acclaim games of all time. Though its graphics are showing some signs thanks to Reznor's spooky soundtrack, downright Though Quake is over a quarter of a century all modern hardware. In 2021, Bethesda released a remastered version Switch, and PC, which not only includes the content as well. 34. Metal Gear Solid (1998) (PC) themselves only with pachinko machines and made some really good games. Sadly, because of said terrible business decisions, title of theirs that you can still snap up The game sees Solid Snake pulled out of retirement of FOXHOUND. Not only does he need to prevent them from free the hostages the group has taken. Though Snake is a proven warrior, his strengths carefully, using Snake's many abilities he stays under the radar and out of trouble. When it was released, there were some who made, and regardless of whether you agree that its gameplay and story earn the game These days, you can only find Metal Gear Solid you'll need to hit up the good folks at we could find that still carries it. 33. Grim Fandango (1998) (Xbox One, Xbox Series The concept of death is both fascinating and one truly knows what happens when we bite developers the world over from exploring what According to Grim Fandango, when we die, we for our journey to the Land of Eternal Rest. Those who have led good lives are rewarded who have been less than stellar whilst living The story of Grim Fandango follows Manny, Dead, as he attempts to escort virtuous soul Rest. Despite being a commercial failure, Grim Fandango Audiences and critics alike were impressed of wacky characters, its challenging yet engaging in both the dark and the light. Grim Fandango received a remaster in 2015, You can find it on Xbox One, Series X and 32. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate (2018) (Switch) the living daylights out of your friends, shut down by the police? Well, perhaps you might want to think about by picking up a copy of Super Smash Bros. The fifth instalment in the Smash Bros. franchise A handful of colourful characters meet in of moves in order to best their opponents. It's fast-paced, chaotic and, if you've of fun. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate boasts the biggest fighters from previous games, as well as adding Players can pick from Nintendo mascots such favourites such as Richter Belmont, Bayonetta, The great thing about Ultimate is that it right, and builds on it with improved gameplay perfectly balancing innovation with nostalgia. As with the rest of the games in the Smash is a Nintendo exclusive, so if you do have then you'll need to invest in a Nintendo 31. Everybody's Gone to the Rapture (2015) (PS4, It's not very often that we come across very title, but just because you know where why they've gone there, and it's for that Gone to the Rapture. Originally released for the PS4 in 2015, Everybody's village and charges the player with finding Exploring the village and interacting with of conversations and events that have previously to piece together the puzzle in order to figure Some outlets criticised Everybody's Gone and, in fairness, the title does prioritise among many critics' games of the year. The game weaves a beautiful yet heart-breaking players in a stunning environment that's and fantastic score that suitsthe game perfectly. If you're ready to unravel the mystery, to the Rapture on PlayStation 4, PlayStation 20. The Sims 3 (2009) (PC) list was a real Herculean task, I'll tell Were we supposed to go for the title that or the one that invoked the most feelings In the end we went for a combination of both varied gameplay to the table, as well stirs As with all of the main Sims titles, the aim of Sims, move them into a home, and ensure manner. There's a plethora of design choices, both of different career paths to pick, and lots sick of them. Drown them, burn them, or simply lock them The world really is your oyster. Unlike its predecessors, however, The Sims freely wander around, meaning they could visit to sit through long, boring loading screens. Though The Sims 3 did get ports to the Xbox on the PC, which is, in our opinion at least, 19. System Shock 2 (1999) (PC) rage because we've included both BioShock not, thus far, given a nod to the System Shockseries If you are one of those people, then please cup of camomile tea and calm down, because The game takes place aboard the Von Braun of the last remaining soldier who awakens ship's crew have been infected by a parasite known as "The Many." System Shock 2 combines first-person action gameplay experience that will immediately The first game was great, but the refinement of the role-playing elements makes System Ever since its launch in 1999, System Shock An enhanced edition of the game is currently VR mode, though at the time of writing, a likely that this too will only get a PC release. Sorry, console fans. At least you have BioShock. 18. Mortal Kombat 11 (2019) (Xbox One, Xbox Series Now, we know there are some of you out there that's okay! If you are interested in diving into the insanely to start with 1992's Mortal Kombat and work If you're here for what most people are owners swiftly part company, then we heartily If you're unfamiliar with the Mortal Kombat beings, controlled either by two players or out of each other until one of them dies in Why do we recommend MK11 over the rest of Is it the intricate narrative or the complex In short, no. We recommend it because it has the best graphics, fatalities, plus a huge roster of fighters. The base game boasts 25 different playable like Scorpion, Shao Kahn, and Liu Kang, plus Plus, if you're willing to shell out a few as pop culture icons such as John Rambo, the Ready to back, forward, back, Y your way to You can pick up a copy of Mortal Kombat 11 For clarity, or if you haven't been paying the game is available on Xbox One and Series, 17. Shadow of the Colossus (2018) (PS4, PS5) 11 and Shadow of the Colossus have an awful After all, Mortal Kombat has players kicking and Shadow of the Colossus kicks the crap See? They're basically the same game; I don't Jokes aside, Shadow of the Colossus is an stick in players' minds long after the credits The game tells the story of Wander, a young Mono. On his journey, Wander encounters Dormin, soul to her body if Wander will slay the sixteen Willing to do whatever it takes to revive quest. Aside from the fact that the original Shadow is, therefore, rather hard to come by these playing the remake. Its gameplay and story are basically identical the remake is that you get nice, shiny, updated Shadow of the Colossus is exclusive to PlayStation, that's likely to change any time soon, so then you'll need a PS4 or 5 in order to 16. KatamariDamacy Reroll (2018) (Xbox One, Xbox Do you like bright, colourful video games mechanics? Then, oh boy, are you going to love KatamariDamacy Players assume the role (geddit?) of the Prince, All Cosmos, has managed to destroy almost bender. Don't worry mate, it happens to the best Keen to restore the galaxy to its former glory, matter on Earth, which he must do by utilising up anything smaller than it. Though the gameplay is fairly simple, it's The levels all require players to roll the to the required size, or to pick up a certain With that said, the game never gets repetitive, players entertained as they scramble to collect Anyone willing to mop up the King of All Cosmos' generation Xbox and PlayStation, as well as 15. DuckTales (1989) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, After trying and failing to come up with an gave up on writing a short song, based on We're just making you aware of the pain You're welcome. Released all the way back in 1989 for the show of the same name, and follows the adventures collecting treasure. You know, because he's not already rich Meanwhile, the dastardly FlintheartGlomgold up to Scrooge to beat him to the punch or DuckTales features multiple different levels, though some require items acquired in the It's definitely a game that was made with that put you off, because DuckTales is bright, If you're ready to get smacked in the face find DuckTales as part of The Disney Afternoon Series X/S, PS4, PS5, and PC. You can generally pick it up for about the five other Disney classics, including Chip Duck. 14. Cave Story+ (2011) (Switch, PC) you'll know that a lot of work goes into Studios can often consist of tens, if not when an entire game is developed by just a one person. The original version can be downloaded, free website, but although it's great, we would Cave Story+, which will give you a whole lot The game tells the story of a robot named In order to escape and figure out who he is, his way into new areas to uncover clues. In terms of gameplay, Cave Story has Metroidvania of platforming, puzzles, and a little backtracking Cave Story+ features a number of things that modes from the WiiWare version of the game, choose either the WiiWare graphics and music If spelunking with a robot sounds like your on the Nintendo Switch and PC. 13. Deus Ex (2000) (PC) gaming fans en masse, there were a number grim view of how the future might look if If that sounds like your idea of a good time, Deus Ex, the gritty action-RPG released in Deus Ex is set in the year 2052, and paints dystopian world. The game tells the story of JC Denton, an Coalition, who is forced to question everything he works for isn't all it's cracked up In fact, it turns out that it's responsible against the Grey Death virus that has cost Not cool. Deus Ex's major selling point is player missions in any way they see fit. Sneak through levels to reach the objective or try to settle things with words; it really If you're interested in experiencing a world plague, then you could just step outside. You'd be better staying indoors, closing 12. Assassin's Creed II (2009) (Xbox One, Xbox We come now to yet another franchise where We must give honourable mentions to the original Black Flag, and the most recenttrio of titles, that make them fantastic gaming experiences. If you only have the time for one Assassin's up a copy of the series' second main outing. AC2 is the first game in the series to star modern-day protagonist, Desmond Miles. The vast majority of the game takes place in Ezio's life by utilising the Animus, to experience the genetic memories of others. Assassin's Creed II received universal critical Reviewers called out the story as a high point, ends from the previous game, whilst delivering There was also a lot of love for the combat, had been improved to the point of near-perfection. The original version of Assassin's Creed Series via backwards compatibility. Alternatively, if you'd prefer to pick up of Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection on Sid Meier's Civilization IV (2005) (PC) you'd be really good at building your own If so, then you might be interested in Sid We can't put an entire franchise on this we've picked the series' fourth outing. The aim of Civilization IV is pretty simple. You, the player, take on the role of a world globe in one of several ways. You might be a military tactician, stomping If science is your thing, you might try to Or perhaps you just want to spread the culture power that way. It may sound straightforward, but actually need a cool head on your shoulders if you're Why play Civ IV over any of the others? Well, the game takes the turn-based strategy upon them, with changes made to the combat, which work in the game's favour. Civ IV also added in multiplayer, allowing that all-important victory. If you're ready to conquer the world, then on PC. Those willing to splash out a couple of extra Complete Edition, which comes with the base and Beyond the Sword, and the standalone expansion, 10. Stardew Valley (2016) (Xbox One, Xbox Series You might not have noticed, but we really If we had one complaint though, it's that Don't get us wrong, sometimes we need a the stresses of daily life but, just occasionally, Enter Stardew Valley, the 2016 farming simulator The game begins with players receiving a letter them that he's left them a farm, and they're becomes too stressful. The farm is on the outskirts of a small town need a lot of work. The gameplay starts out quite straightforward, Begin by tilling the land and sowing a few them to Pierre for a tidy profit. As you become more accomplished, you can raise wine, all to add to that all-important bank Players can also befriend locals, get married, help kick that no-good Joja Mart out of town! Feel like a life on the farm is exactly what You can pick up a copy of Stardew Valley on 5, Vita, Switch, and PC. 9. Animal Crossing: New Horizons (2020) (Switch) for the time being as we take a look at Animal players to escape to their very own desert critters. Upon landing in the tropical paradise, players to their new dwellings, before quickly demanding Not to worry, though; there are plenty of for rare specimens, or, if you're serious luck on the Stalk Market, buying and selling Just don't do what our writer did and spend your basement and forget about them, so that rotten veg. The smell was unimaginable. Not only is Animal Crossing: New Horizons of the world but, for many, it was a beacon The game was released in March 2020, just Players might not have been able to visit could pop over to their islands to hang out distraction and social interaction during If you're ready to sack off society and you can find Animal Crossing: New Horizons 8. Persona 5 Royal (2019) (PS4, PS5) not ones to go back on our word, so here it The great news is that you needn't have series in order to thoroughly enjoy the experience Except Persona 4 Golden, of course, but that's Persona 5 and more because we've told you As you know, we are in charge and you must The game is set in Tokyo and follows a high after being wrongly accused of assault. Soon after his arrival, he and several other the power of their Personas and form a vigilante From there, they explore the Metaverse and the hearts of adults. Like Persona 3 and Persona 4 before it, Persona after its initial one and, in our opinion, Persona 5 Royal not only comes with all of an additional party member, a new area of semester, and much, much more. Think you're ready to steal some hearts, 1], and [other presenter 2] do? If so, then you can find Persona 5 Royal on 7. L.A. Noire(2011) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Do you like crime? Or, rather, do you like the idea of solving Then, by golly, are you going to have a great from Team Bondi and Rockstar Games. Players jump into the well-shined shoes of police officer with big ambitions and an even Cole's cases are presented as different evidence, both by looking for clues and questioning Not everything is black and white though; guilty party, and Cole will soon find that crime-solving prowess. L.A. Noire received critical acclaim when Reviewers were impressed by a number of aspects acting and mo-cap, and the open world, which Think you've got what it takes to crack You can find the original version of L.A. If you'd prefer to grab yourself a copy do so on Xbox One and Series, PS4 and 5, and 6. Heavy Rain (2010) (PS4, PS5, PC) fun of Heavy Rain on this channel and,sure, and there's that glitch, but if you can game that's really worth your time. Heavy Rain focusses on sad dad Ethan Mars, it since his eldest son was killed in a road apart. Things are about to get far worse for the Shaun, is taken by the infamous Origami Killer; to test their fathers' love. To get his son back, Ethan will need to participate than the last. Throughout the game, players control one of profiler Norman Jayden, journalist Madison As they progress through the story, their there are 17 different endings that can be I sure hope you've got those thumbs ready; Shaun a lot. Heavy Rain was originally released as a PlayStation and can now be found on PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5. Uncharted 4: A Thief's End (2016) (PS4, If you're anything like us, then you'll and slightly cheeky pie that is Nathan Drake You deserve a second helping, my friend, so serving of Uncharted, though this time, might Set some fifteen years after the events of Nathan Drake enjoying his retirement by taking Oh, who am I kidding? Yes, he's retired, but the man can't stand nudge from his brother, Sam, to get him back After spending several years in jail, Sam Hector Alcazar, who now demands that Sam finds keep on breathing. Always game for an adventure, Nathan signs Uncharted 4 cleverly combines action-packed that allows both to have their moment in the the story, nor does the plot tread on the Nathan Drake's fourth major outing was released available only to those who own a Sony console. Don't despair if you don't have a PlayStation Collection, which contains a remastered version and is set to launch on PC at some point in 4. Halo 3 (2007) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Following its release in November 2004, there Halo 2's single-player campaign. The multiplayer was solid, and there was a but the single-player mode was short and divided Thankfully, much of that was forgiven when The plot of Halo 3 once again follows Master to put a stop to the plans of the Covenant, threatens the galaxy. This time, the Covenant leader, the High Prophet immense structure that has the ability to If you've been paying attention to the series for business. Upon its release, Halo 3 received widespread for retaining the Halo formula that worked a fresh experience thanks to its exciting vehicles. Like all of the Halo games that have come These days, you can find a remastered version on Xbox One, Xbox Series X and S, and PC. 3. Portal 2 (2011) (Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, If you've been putting off playing Portal more of the same, then I'm here to tell Um, well, it kind of is. But, wait, don't go! A lot of Portal 2's mechanics are very similar ones, and it brings a brand-new story and Plus, why wouldn't you want more portal-gun I know I do. The game begins with Chell waking up, once Centre. Guided by personality core Wheatley, who happens Chell must utilise the Aperture Science Handheld tractor beams, and light bridges, to escape Not only do Portal 2 players get another single-player but they get a multiplayer experience as well, to solve even more brainteasers, co-op style. Like its predecessor, Portal 2 is superbly is built on a solid foundation of puzzles hooked, but not so difficult that they'll If one dose of Portal isn't enough and you on Xbox One and Series via backwards compatibility, The game is also headed to Switch at some Collection, though at the time of writing, 2. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (2017) I just know you've been waiting with bated Zelda titles would be our final pick from we've made a good choice. Breath of the Wildis the first open world and OH BOY, did Nintendo deliver the goods. Players once again join everyone's favourite across Hyrule in order to restore his memories going by the name Calamity Ganon. Ooh, edgy. Unlike most previous Zelda titles, Breath the way of direction, as the focus is squarely There is a main questline, of course, but it up immediately, and instead encourages secrets they can uncover. Critics had nothing but praise for the game, the Wild "a masterpiece", and it's easy The humongous open world is nothing short of magical things that are just waiting to Are you ready to get out there and collect Like the vast majority of Zelda titles before and so you can only find it on Wii U and Switch. Just a quick note before we get to our number stuck with us for this whole list, and we are in no particular order, so please don't game isn't in pole position. All of these games mean something special and we hope that, after playing them, they'll With all of that out of the way... Project Makeover (2020) (iOS, Android) listed in no particular order, but Project hearts of everyone at Team TripleJump. The game was released in 2020 and sees players of people that are in need of a little TLC. [off-mic] STOP, STOP, STOP! [record scratch] I can't keep this up any Cut to the real number one. 1. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim (2011) (Xbox One, Oh, come on, you didn't really think we'd After all, it's not like Todd Howard's Set in Tamriel's northernmost province, on the role of the Dragonborn, an individual whom prophecy dictates will eventually destroy If you think that it's just a case of toddling be home in time for supper, then you're be severely disappointed, as it's very easy touch the main questline. Sure, you could just go straight for the dragon you when you can become a master thief or There is a whole world full of quests and that many players have sunk thousands of hours Skyrim is considered by many to be one of reason. The roleplaying elements of the title are without feeling bloated, and each quest is enemies and NPCs. At this point, it would probably be quicker Skyrim on, but for the sake of clarity, the is available on Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Phew! That go for a little lie down now.