Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Ravindran Byju, Ashneer Grover, what is common in these three startup founders? They are visionary, very successful, have a lot of money, they are youth icons, and the media has made all three of them the superstars of New India. But in all three, a God complex has come somewhere. And they felt that they are above the rules, laws, their customers, industry experts All three have fallen to the ground. After RBI crackdown and Paytm payments bank was shutdown, Vijay Shekhar Sharma is trying to save Paytm. Ravindran Byju, after doing scam in financial accounting, cheating customers, is standing on verge of bankruptcy And Shark, Ashneer Grover, these days talks less. When his wife was about to be arrested in a fraud case, he quietly settled with his previous company. All three of them had received warnings. Experts had warned them for years, but they didn't listen They thought they had the unlimited support of the public and the government. But after a while, when the time comes, your PR mechanism and the mask of nationalism can't save you. In fact, because of these bad boys, reputation of our startup ecosystem is getting ruined. And this bad boy of start-up India can now have another name in the list. Bhavish Aggarwal of Ola Electric. There is no doubt that Bhavish is a very smart guy. He is from IIT. He is counted among the world's youngest billionaires. But in quest to become India's Elon Musk, he set such a fire that Ola Electric can be destroyed Bhavish was recently in news when he had a fight with comedian Kunal Kamra on Twitter. Kamra shared a picture of electric scooters in front of Ola Service Center on Twitter and asked Bhavish if this is the right behavior with customers when two wheelers are a lifeline for many in our country, not a luxury to stand in the service center. Along with that, Kunal Kamra tagged the road transport minister and the department of consumer affairs in his tweet. It was a Sunday. Kamra's tweet got some retweets. The matter would have ended there. And anyway, Kamra has not tweeted anything new. Type Ola service on Twitter or Google. You will get the whole story of such customers who are crying. But for some reason, Bhavish was free on Sunday. Bhavish says that the concept of weekend rest is a very Western concept. He wants the whole country to work for seven days But for some reason, he was not working on Sunday. And started responding to Kunal Kamra Saying that Kunal Kamra is a failed comedian. If you are so worried, then come to Ola's service center and get a job. And all these tweets are paid work. This behavior is often seen in Bhavish's icon Elon Musk. Catch any critic, insinuate, insult, abuse. But don't answer the question And the rest of the work will be done by Musk's army. But Bhavish forgot that it is not so easy to afford Musk's arrogance. Musk is the richest person in the world Twitter is his own property. His fan base swears by his electric cars. They launch 18 floor tall rocket and catch it back Kamra was just stating the truth about Ola. That Ola scooters breakdown, catch fire or stop working Bhavish thought that he can just insult and solve the problem. Next day Ola electric share slipped by 9% Kamra's fans were like, a comedian has destroyed Ola Electric's stock. Is that true? No Because Bhavish, out of his arrogance, gave a result to the Streisand effect Now, what is this Streisand effect? In 2003, famous actress-singer Barbara Streisand tried to suppress an aerial photograph. The photograph which would have kept the map of her house in front of the world. But opposite happened. She tried to suppress this photo by filing case in court It so happened that hundreds of people saw that photo. Along with that, there was negative publicity. So, the effect in Streisand is the opposite. Kamra did not bring down the Ola stocks. Bhavish has done that himself by exposing himself in front of the world. And now, the problems of Ola are increasing day by day. Central Consumer Protection Authority or CCPA has sent a notice to Ola Electric. Because, complaints against Ola are increasing day by day. There are more than 10,000 officially registered complaints on National Consumer Helpline regarding Ola in the last year. 3389 service delay complaints, 1899 delays in delivery of new vehicles and 1459 unfulfilled promises of service. These complaints clearly show that Ola Electric has many problems. Manufacturing defects, partial or no refunds, on-booking cancellations, recurring defects, service deficit, multiple issues with batteries. A report published in The Morning Context has shown that Ola Electric can never be profitable. This is the same publication which predicted the collapse of Byju's Byju Ravindran did not take it seriously. In today's episode of Deshbhakt, we will see how country's biggest EV manufacturer has hit a nail on its own foot. Why the whole startup ecosystem should learn from Bhavish. Can Ola Electrify be saved? Or will it end up like Paytm and Byju's? [subscribe and press bell icon] Bhavish Aggarwal's presentation on screen says Ola is the world's largest EV company. But if you zoom in, you can see that it's excluding China. What a fakiri! We can also make a presentation like this. All Indian startups are trying their best to solve consumer problems about EV industry. Except Ola Electric Today, many customers of Ola Electric are shedding tears of blood. Some people are crying, some are singing songs in front of the service center. One customer got fed up with Ola electric and set it on fire in the showroom. He must have thought that set fire before they catch fire on the road Arson cannot find solution to this But think that a person who gives down payment with great difficulty, gives EMI, buys an electric scooter so that he can save some money from the price of petrol in a month, But the scooter breaks down every other day and Ola does not help - just imagine A team from News Laundry went to Ola service centre to talk to some customers. Bhavish ji, note this. This is not a failed comedian like Kamra but a loyal customer of yours I am getting problems since I have bought this... I have spent Rs 8000 on it. What happened on 30th September? It didn't work after that I called a crane and sent it to their service centre. So either there is a part in Ola Scooter that catches fire or there is a part that makes people angry The biggest issue of Ola Electric is HMI, Human Machine Interface which is like an operating system for an electric scooter. If this component fails, then the entire scooter will be in a bad state. And in Ola Electric, HMI's failure rate is 75% The failure rate of 3 out of 4 scooters The manufacturer of HMI s surprised and doesn't know what the problem is Ola says that it could be your fault. The company that made the human-machine interface tried to find out where the problem is coming from. They did a thorough investigation. Because they thought that they have made this complicated interface based on Ola's design parameters. The parts of the scooter are not in sync with the design, hence the failures. Because the hardware and software are mismatching. This is more important in an electric scooter. It cannot be corrected by tilting the scooter. The HMI is important in designing and hardware. So, many problems are arising because of this. This is why we see problems in charging, vibration in the scooter, a very common problem is the scooter going dead. Ola stops working and then it's over. And this is now being called a major reason for the fire in Ola scooters. The Morning Context reports that even after knowing these problems, Ola Electric did not put a break. Their agenda was to sell scooters at the rates of 25% which are okay. Not to solve this 75% failure rate immediately. For that, they would have to go back to the drawing board. It would have taken time and money for that But there was going to be a big IPO listing. A lot of money was going to come. And the hype was also positive at that time. But the result of this decision is clear to you today. You go to any Ola showroom, you will see more of already broken and old, bad scooters than new ones The customers have left the old ones at the door of Ola in the hope that they will be fixed someday. And look at Bhavish Agarwal, he is not even ashamed. More than 80,000 scooters are now reaching the service center for repair per month But in such a situation, where the rope has been burnt, Bhavish Aggarwal's pride did not shatter in a country where having an IIT degree makes you non-biological, there humility has what value? there is so much money. So, then, whatever they are doing, must have thought of something But since December 2021, Ola has been delivering scooters since December. These problems have been coming since then. You were a new company then. We can understand the situation. You must be learning. You must be making mistakes. You bought the scooter design from somewhere. From Europe. You didn't develop or test it in India. But even after 3 years, there is no excuse for this. The panel gap issue still exists. The battery issue still exists. The design flaw that was there in the beginning is still there The product did not improve, but at least your behaviour could have improved. If someone criticizes, at least have the courage to face it. You are the founder. Here, you see, the editor makes a miss.. ...And in the comment section, abuse happens But we are happy to see engagement - positive in negative. But IIT does not teach human psychology. Pajama is torn. You are messing with Kunal Kamra Bhavish exposed the company But the faulty design and pathetic service of Ola scooters is just a part of the story. Second aspect - future of Indian EV market is in danger. One can see why haven't the two wheeler players like Hero, Bajaj and TVS entered EV market? It is a complicated issue. But listen carefully. Bhavish Aggarwal considers himself a wealth creator. And the one who questions him is like working against the country So, Morning Context asked a simple question. If you are a wealth creator, when will Ola Electric earn money? For this, Ujjwal Nanavati of Morning Context searched through Red Herring Prospectus before Ola's IPO In this Red Herring Prospectus, the company has to make all the declarations, all the numbers have to be kept in front of you by law. There is a process in accounting, high or low method In which all the fixed and variable costs of the company are included. After applying this formula, you can find out a break-even point of Ola Electric. I have given the link in the description if you want to understand what is this formula I have given the article of Morning Context below. The breakeven point of Ola is 22,40,000 scooters. This is when the cost of the scooter and wages will be the same. You will have to sell so many scooters to earn money. Ola has sold 3,30,000 scooters Despite first mover advantage and hype, the market share will fall in the coming years as dominant players will enter But let's assume that EV market growth is explosive. But still, imagine that you have to sell 19 lakh scooters every year ... which is more than their production capacity But for this, Ola will have to increase production and will have to maintain 50% market share even after 8-10 years The truth is that Ola is using only 35% of its production capacity. In Hindi, unlike Tesla, people are not waiting in line for Ola electric scooter. And Bhavish has already ditched Ola car plan Then what about big Ola electric IPO? People have invested money Paytm's IPO was also a big hit. Byju's was India's most valuable unicorn. Bhavish got a lot of hype. No one asks about failing cab business No one knows what their new AI company does. Maybe the CEO of Krutrim doesn't know, maybe that's why he left job But they get a lot of funding. Maybe when Bhavish talked of hiring Kunal Kamra, he was not joking He needed people. Because no one wants to work with Bhavish Aggarwal In Ola, the average time of an employee is 11 months. OlaCab CEO Hemant Bakshi, pack up in 4 months. CFO Karthik Gupta, stayed for 7 months. Ola Electric's attrition rate is 50% annually. And now, in Bhavish's new company, Krutrim AI, the same story is repeating. Ravi Jain has resigned from the position of Business Head. Ola's electric scooter's first mover advantage is now disappearing. Legacy 2-wheeler companies have already prepared their products, R&amp;D and testing. They didn't want to launch a sub-standard product in the market. They love their brand value. So, Ola's domination is going to end soon Already, Ola's market domination is by slim margin In overall two wheeler space, electric and petrol vehicles, Ola's share is only 2%. In the coming days, it will be very difficult to save this 2%. Even after a billion-dollar investment, 5 years later, Ola has only one product to show, that too defective Ola car-related team has been fired. Ola showcased the concept electric motorcycle, but no one knows anything beyond that. Basically, Ola is in a huge loss. There is no product portfolio. And if the government subsidy is removed, then it will be difficult And even if Ola celebrates its birthday, then it's okay. Already IPO has happened The retail investor will have to bear the brunt. Like it happened in Paytm and Nyka Bhavish has a new jumla, like he jumped from Ola cabs to Ola electric Now insiders say Bhavish is spending more time on Krutrim AI We will see what is happening in Krutrim AI We have already seen many bugs and errors. But Bhavish knows how to spot hot and new technology. He knows how to get funding. But if Kunal Kamra is a flop comedian, then how successful a businessman is Bhavish Agarwal? Elon Musk has created dozens of companies and many of them are profitable But Bhavish's track record is questionable. Ola cabs? Struggling. Ola Financial Services? Shutdown. Ola Fleet Technologies? Shutdown. Ola Store, Ola Dash, Ola Food? All experiments fail. So, before pointing out other's failures, look at your own self brother. Yes raised a lot of money from investors, this I admit. And the biggest in our country is money. So, we have to accept this. Finally, can Ola Electric be saved? Do Ola's customers have any hope? If you have bought Ola's stocks, will you remain in loss? Can Kunal Kamra and Bhavish ever shake hands in the future? It is possible if Bhavish Agarwal comes to his senses and learns something from his idols, Elon Musk and Ratan Tata A powerful figure like Elon Musk has to give up and correct his course His strategy is called JDART In simple words, joking, deleted, apologized for responsive tweets. Bhavish has not apologized for his tweets, nor has he deleted those disgusting tweets Never mind, it's just ego-promax. Learn from Ratan Tata. After his death, you tweeted him as your hero. But Tata's critics will also agree that the entire group used to treat their staff with respect. So, Bhavish, stop being a toxic employer. The company's service will improve. Otherwise, it's okay... your name can be included in bad boys of Indian startup ecosystem And after that, no one will ask you, like no one asks others In the ending, I want to remind you one thing. If you have any problem with Ola, then don't sit quietly. Not because you should report, but because you should also get rid of these big-ego founders. There are many multiple ways to register a complaint. If you have a problem with Ola's product, I will give you all the links below. consumerhelpline.gov.in, toll number. You can also register a complaint on WhatsApp number. Wake up, customers! Wake up! Control the big-ego founders ... This is your right After all this, do you want to buy an electric scooter or a traditional petrol vehicle? What do you think about Indian EV space? let us know in the comment section. If you want more non-political episodes, business episodes, then write in the comments, we will bring them to you