The energy world is by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. We see the rise of what's New ship owners, new shipping companies that we've never encountered before. The sanctions that have been dodged by those that are Russia has dethroned Saudi Arabia as among the biggest suppliers. So that is how significant This is a trade that's made Even the most conservative that at least $5 billion a year trade to people. We don't know who, but we think to Russian interests. It's an incredibly difficult problem for politicians in the that electorates are going by higher energy prices. To actually see clandestine behavior was really surprising. That makes you think, well This is a story that of power in Brussels, in goes through the trading floors of Singapore and Dubai, where we are and ultimately out to the very opaque world Europe has relied for and Russian oil to keep its economy going, and all of a sudden people are saying, we can't allow this to continue given that Russia has launched on a European country. The European position quickly becomes, we should stop buying Russian oil and gas. But people also always realize that that's gonna force up the price. So this is the genesis of the The price cap is a to ensure that the price of Russian oil doesn't get too high. It is supposed to deprive Russia as allowing Russia's crude to flow. If you pay $60 a barrel, you That means Greek oil tankers. That means insurance from and if you pay $60 and 1 cent, you can't. They wanted to keep oil flowing, but they wanted to and that's a really That's why it's such a and why so many people In the first four months of the year Russia's budget deficit was to be for all of 2023. So at least for the first the price cap was working as intended. Then as the summer wore on you saw the price cap being breached. Russia's oil exports many billions of dollars a year. What you have are two main prices. You have a price at the point of export, and you have a price Since the war, the export much lower than the import price. And what that has done is created a huge slug of money that is going we don't know exactly where. You have to remember that the price of Russian oil all over the So how can any ship be truly legitimate? So you've got a policy to constrain the flow of but has created this shadowy world which is funneling billions of ship owners and traders Yeah, of course there are rules and you're supposed to follow them, but the reality is people Once this policy came into place, the energy world was quickly reorientated. We see the rise of what's Russian shipping companies that really should have been retired and and buying them up at a rapid clip. The shadow fleet is that have been acquired for the purpose of A very large part, probably of shadowy component, whether that's who owns the ship, whether that's who operates the ship. Very often there will be something What's happening is that Russia ports and take it to a bay where it gets transferred which then transport to the buyer countries, So we know from tracking that a lot of them are heading to this bay in southern Greece. We don't know exactly what they're doing, but we know there's some and what we wanna do is head down there and find out exactly what they're doing. The shipping industry has been around for a long time, right? It's one of the oldest trades out there and these guys are very, very resourceful. Russia still needs to get and that's why we are leaning very heavily on this shadow fleet to bring So what actually happens and India, they buy the You can kind of give how much the freight would've cost. There are many miscellaneous that can be inflated or And you can then get under the price cap because we all know that and dice a price. Chinese refiners are taking and right now we are looking of about 25%. And for India this increase is even more significant, right? Because India used to take before the war, and right to 2 million barrels a day. So you take your Russian oil and you send it to a refinery in India, you turn it into gasoline. Now, according to all and the way the industry works, the moment it's gasoline, it's not Russian. Now a lot of that will be used in India, but India has also emerged as of that fuel back to Europe. So in that sense, there's Russian oil is flowing freely People, traders are making Indian refiners are making money for it, and Russia's making money for it. It's extremely difficult of money being lavished on to encourage them to become involved. We are self-regulated industry. You know, when you the interest you have or doing a ship. You know if there's a you need to be on guard, They're actually actively It's gotta stop. There are new brokers, there are new traders appearing. There are an awful lot of the big houses, the ship broking houses, who we know are actually So they try to distance No, I'm not gonna point fingers. You go into a restaurant, and Russian is oftentimes you'll hear. Dubai has always been a place of wealth and where people like to splash their wealth but it's certainly picked in the past couple years. Dubai has won over a lot of their ultimate beneficial owners, previously had companies in And those same... individuals have since shifted their operations to Dubai. They're moving teams, they're and Dubai has been the main base. They're also masking of their companies to try that their ultimate beneficial sanctions or could face The oil industry has always It's easier for a refiner, to go to a trader they know and say, 'I need a than it is to pick up the phone and phone Rosneft. And so those middlemen and they work for some Now, those traders in the they didn't really want to There's a new group of brokers, which has emerged very quickly, Dubai being a jurisdiction to host Russians, keep And we've looked at many or not they are... The people owners and ultimate beneficial owners of these companies or not. But there's a lot of how to make money out of this. So for a single cargo, is making 10 or $15 million. This is a trade that's made The chief concern from Washington, of the windfall is actually How much of it is ultimately Russia's war efforts? So we are here in the Gulf of Lakonikos. We've spent over two and we are here to check out a hub of Russian oil trade. Can we get a view of those ships there? So over there we've got two oil tankers. They're transferring oil A ship-to-ship ships will come with cargoes of barrels of oil each Another ship will come alongside and then spend a couple of days just transferring the This right here is the shadow fleet. You've got two tankers that The insurance isn't clear in terms of the depth of the insurance. The flag is as bad as it gets. These are shadow fleet tankers. When we came around that bay, I was expecting to see some tankers. We've seen them on What I really wasn't of the most notorious sitting alongside another on global tracking systems. You can see that there black one called the Simba, Now, if you look on here, this and it shows you its signal, and you can only see one ship. That ship is the Simba, not the Turba. If you look further you will find that the Turba is about and it has been giving a signal. There's a name for this kind of behavior, it's called spoofing. that you alter the AIS system to be somewhere that it isn't. Somebody is doing something to make Honestly, we don't fully but what it does mean is that there's a degree of separation. A trader may not be completely comfortable with taking delivery of oil and may just want to hide of just get it imported To see that and to see that against was really shocking and it made me wonder about everything else. The dark fleet's growing and growing, and of course the price So it's a bigger and bigger gap from where the price cap was. So actually what's happening is the amount of illegal trading is creating that actually are utilizing what they're actually creating Do sanctions work? Well, unless the culprits are being apprehended. So I'm afraid to say the are largely ineffective as a consequence of that. Or put it like this, people dodging those sanctions. They're finding a way around them. China and India have pretty much set up an entirely different that Russian crude continues below the price cap or So these two countries have a separate ecosystem that's outside of EU or Western services. So therefore, the price cap doesn't as much anymore because the two biggest customers of found a very viable The oil is flowing. We've got a very willing seller in Russia. We've got very willing And we've got the middlemen, the middle people, who can make it happen. When I look at that It isn't looking in great condition. You've gotta keep in mind to carry a million barrels of oil. You know, that's a risky ship, and the the red one is even older. Now, what you need to know of the worst tankers in the fleet. It should have been decommissioned by now. It's coming to the end of It's come, it's gone beyond the end of its useful trade in life. If you look behind me, you which is clearly dependent on hotels, there's fishing in the area. Now those industries don't need The last thing they need a rusting old oil tanker, and at a huge environmental cost. And you have to remember, that any insurance company to pay out to cover the compensation that these people would need Actually, my concerns are and they're gonna be and innocent people are gonna get hurt. You know, we have 600, 700 ships, over 10% in certain size which is now in the dark fleet. That's a huge percentage. And I think that that's to other seafarers and to other people who are bumping up against this, this fleet. This architecture of the shadow fleet that we've described, this that we've described, it's working, but what are people paying? They're paying more than they were because as people get more comfortable with this new architecture, there are less reasons not to do it. And there is a lot of evidence that a lot more oil is It's a much more difficult challenge to control this shadow fleet. These are not businesses that What can the US do to tell with no links to the US that it... they can't transport oil? It's a very difficult situation. What I do know is that and that is, I'm afraid to say, And I do point finger at the authorities to be frank with you. What's the point in having sanctions unless they're going to The US did sanction a but it's pretty small in scale compared to the scope of the problem. I think a lot of people will and the suspicion will that they really care about When they agreed the to review it regularly, but as it's been described to me, EU member states get in their of graphs, and they say, and it has not been lowered. I think there's nervousness and you know, I don't think that might feed into Everybody globally understands that Russia is a very big producer of oil, is a very big exporter, I think the last thing that would want is for Russia's oil supply to be cut off. This was, in a sense, an and eat it. To have a sanctions but didn't harm the global economy. Now it's succeeded in one sense, has its problems, but oil prices aren't a huge part of that right now. But on the other hand, But it shows that sanctions and those unintended There is every incentive to cheat. The penalties are tiny, so They clearly want the oil to flow. There is clearly a real to prioritize the flow of petroleum. That's just reality. There's no doubt if the and the oil continues to flow and more that oil trades that means more money for the Kremlin, and the Kremlin will use a and to pay soldiers.