A double portion of Udon with meat! It is the most rewarding thing to be told that you are the best in the world. We'll get changed and then head to school! These are the meal tickets for lunch. A double portion of Udon with meat! We're heading to the classroom now. It takes me an hour one-way from home to school. Since 2024, the Kyushu high school has two homeroom teachers per 1st year class. Students who have just entered high school might have a lot of worries, and for them we have introduced this system so we can be there for them and think together. Thanks to that the homeroom classes are very bright and cheerful. I believe this system is working well. I will continue to work hard with my other partner homeroom teacher to make sure we provide great classes. I turned 64 just before Halloween this year! I worked at a Chinese restaurant until I was 47, and then looked for a job at a school cafeteria, and finally got this job after applying for 30 jobs. I wrote so many job applications! I really needed a job to make ends meet. I want the students to put their trust in me, and I want them to enjoy the food I make. This is the only way to do things, so I am doing it! Just like this. This is 235g, It should be exactly that, but I do it a bit roughly. People at sushi restaurants are professionals, so they get it exactly right. And they can tell when they have the rice in their hand. I'm still learning. It doesn't end with just cooking things. You can change everything by arranging it differently. I'm still learning even now - I got my chef's license when I was 40. I taught myself cooking. I can cook a lot with this! Tomatoes are super expensive right now! They're really expensive! The ingredients I need for the spicy noodles. Black pepper, whiter pepper, soy sauce, onion.... Adding sesame oil. Good morning! This is sweet potato paste. Fried Chicken. Yeah, delish. It's delicious. It has a very gentle flavor. Fried chicken! Chocolate Pie! Onigiri! What's your fav? It's Pizza! Did you properly study in class?! Double Tantan noodles? And single 4? Too good!!! I recommend the Tantan noodles! The cafeteria staff is so kind! Everything they make is delicious! Delish! Here's your double Tantan noodles! Sorry for the wait! It tastes great! I think the chilled Tantan noodles are the best. The cafeteria uncle has a super bright personality. And he was insanely good at Karaoke during the school festival! It's my 8th year working here. Being surrounded by younger people, makes me feel really energetic, and I want this cafeteria to be a bright place. The cafeteria head chef might look a bit scary at first from his looks, but he is super popular with the students. I already treat them as if they were my own kids. When I see them running into the cafeteria.... I want to cook them food that is delicious. It's s rewarding when they tell me they want to eat the dishes I make, and when they tell me my food is the best in the world. Whether it's here in Fukuoka or anywhere in Japan, I want to be the only place where students can make requests for dishes and will absolutely give my all to make them the best. I'd cook anything for them. That's my motto, and that's the kind of cafeteria I want to create. Not just a regular school cafeteria, but where people can come join from outside, and feel comfortable chatting with everyone. We're heading over to the club room now! It starts at 4pm 20 minutes, so.... we have to run a bit! It starts in 10 minutes! My favorite practice menu is the one-man training! I like the kind of training where the teacher gives us a hard time! (laugh) Kyushu High School has two departments: General Studies and Art and Design. There are four classes in the regular course, and all students are able to participate in all 41 club activities, including sports and cultural clubs. Each student works hard and does their best, with their two pillars - studying and club activities, and that's what makes what makes this Kyushu High School a Study &amp; Sports school. The club activities are completely diverse, which students not often get at other schools. At our athletics festival, the whole school cheers for the athletes! That's one of our schools specialities. The cheering itself is really amazing, but also the process leading up to the day, The students cheer in front of the other students - it's very moving. They do not perform for the teacher, but create their cheers for each other. This moment is very moving to me. I think it's a wonderful thing.