&gt;&gt; So, let me start my introduction. Can you start rolling please? &gt;&gt; Okay, rolling. &gt;&gt; Okay, thank you. So, today we have Kirk Sorensen to talk about To give everybody the general context, in were tasked with the problem of putting a it flying through the air. This is a fool's errand, terrible idea but They--they designed a Thorium fueled, molten Ran at incredibly high temperatures it's very It was a thermal spectrum, I can let Kirk But the idea died in the late 1960s and early And it died I believed fundamentally because It can be done but it's a terrible way. And so, given the choice, the US did not have program with no overlap at all with the military They had conserved resources, they killed the nuclear--with the Uranium fuel cycle. And that's what we've been going with ever Now, developing nations today, a lot of them problem. And so they're choosing Uranium cycle as well. But the Thorium cycle is really interesting And, like I said, there's a ton to say about And I think Kirk has a huge amount queued This is Kirk Sorensen, thank you very much. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Hi. Thank you very much. I'm very excited to be here today at Google didn't think I was going to make it yesterday But it's a great day to be talking about this Anybody know what today is? &gt;&gt; NASA. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: That's right, NASA. Today is the 40th anniversary of man's first I actually worked for NASA, so, I have a little But, I saw in the paper yesterday. &quot;What's our next giant leap?&quot; And I think they're referring to space and to talk about today might be that next giant Both for our country and for the world. And so I'll plunge right into it. The tile of my talk is &quot;Lessons for the Liquid-Fluoride We've had three tech-talks so far on this of you have probably already attended them the things--there are going to be some overlap it's also going to be some additional information And my general approach is going to be chronological. I'm going to kind of start through time at five billion years ago, the super nova, but I'll take you to that. But before I begin, I'm going to kind of give exciting. The potential energy that's in Thorium is enormous amount of energy that's equivalent based-fuels like coal and natural gas and today. We can power the whole world on a whole lot these other fuels today. And at the same time, we can do it much more We can fully burn up the Thorium in this reactor a typical light water reactor. Alright, so, how did it all begin? A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, particularly special about Thorium when it &quot;T&quot; to add on the list. For some reason, there are lot of &quot;Ts&quot; on and Thulium and they all kind of run together. And I taught my little girls the periodic them apart. But there was nothing particularly special until Marie Curie figured out that &quot;Oh my This stuff's radioactive.&quot; And that was a really revolutionary idea. The whole principle of radioactivity, &quot;Where Three kinds of radioactivity there's alpha gamma emission, but the basic idea is this actually changes. And you being the one who--how can it change into? And--and all this stuff was completely theoretical of the 20th century breaking down this idea, We find that there's four natural decay chains particle has a mass of four. So, every time you drop an alpha, you change chains. Now, one of them is extinct, Neptunium here, And they're the source of all of our naturally could be understood, a few conceptual breakthroughs One of them was is we had to understand nuclear the early 20th century the idea that the matter never change and find out it could not only off a lot of energy. And to understand the nucleus and to realize These all laid the foundations for our first out how matter really works, you realize that of energy. And I would say it's probably the source of in the future. And I'll try to substantiate that as I go The nature because of those three chains--those is extinct. Nature gave us three options for fuel. The one on the top is what we use all the 1930s, early 1940s. This is when they figured out that Uranium And then they came over to the United States. This idea came to the United States not far And Glenn Seaborg told the students, &quot;Hey a lot of Uranium 238.&quot; Which is much more common and found out they And then Seaborg who had a very, very fertile what? I'll bet if it's worked on Uranium 238, I'll And sure enough they figured out that all energy. So what's the distinction between them? Well, again it's a wartime scenario. So the first question was, &quot;How do we turn And in this--you know if I--from my editorial great tragedies of nuclear energy. That it was discovered in context of a war.&quot; Now, I kind of weigh that saying, &quot;You know it would have never been--perhaps the resources happen.&quot; I don't know. But it is a sad thing to me that all of these destructive potential. But nevertheless, this is how it happened. Naturally Uranium, they figured out that they a bomb out of it and that was Hiroshima in They also figured out you could take the remaining could make Plutonium and you can make a bomb Now what about Thorium? Could you irradiate that make a bomb out of Well, it turns out it's not--it's a, it's And the reason it's a really bad idea is because 232. And Uranium 232 is decaying and throwing off It's trashing your explosives, it's trashing where it is. So, it didn't take this smart level-headed mess around, awhile to figure out that. &quot;We don't want to do it this way. This isn't a good idea.&quot; And it's not really something you can get A very, very small U-232 really makes handling So the first lesson for LFTR is Thorium's LFTR, Thorium's no good for nuclear weapons. But if its wartime, this fact isn't really So, here we are 2009, we can take a different--we So, as they looked into how to build a reactor--we've I'm sure. You know, sometimes I've wondered if this nuclear engineers from getting into the craft the na--the natural inclination when you look is getting away on us. This is--this is a--this is not controllable. I don't like this thing, you know, and then hundred times I ever looked at it. But then I went to Nuclear Engineering School is. And this is another word that's kind of entered Oh, my goodness, it's going to go critical out criticality is just a state of balance. If you have 10, 000 fissions and you get 10, going to stay at the same fission rate. If 10,000 fission lead to less, then it's critical and rates change but I mean these Let me give you an analogy how it works in You know, it's impossible to get perfect criticality artificial means we know. We can't make a fission reaction rate perfect The good news is is we don't have to. Nature will do it for us. If we--to construct a system that feeds back naturally dial itself into criticality. And the analogy I use is a mass on a spring, the right location where the spring balances pretty hard to just know exactly where that But you let it go and what happens is the the right place, the same with a reactor. We create mechanisms in the reactor that feed that make the fission rate and heat proportional to one another. So as the reactor gets hotter, fission becomes becomes more likely so what happens it will needs to be critical. So take away from this is criticality is not, In fact, we can build reactors quite straightforwardly, in Chicago, it's just a big pile of Uranium And the trick to doing all this is what's This is, a long word to explain a simple concept control itself and you can do this. In a normal reactor it happens because as down the neutrons and that decreases the fission We can build self-controlling reactors, reactors Now don't get me wrong you can build bad reactors, that have unpleasant characteristics but you the kind we built here in the west, is reactors Okay, after the Manhattan pro--well after Fermi and Eugene Wigner said &quot;Well gee, what's what we've done in to something that's good We want to--we want to make energy.&quot; And Fermi's approach was--he said &quot;Well gee, it on Plutonium.&quot; And the reason why is, Plutonium is going and fast fission is the way to go--we want And Wigner says &quot;No, that's not such a good Thermal fission is the way to go, we want we're going to have safer reactors, we're going to be able to employ those mechanisms criticality. And the only way do this was to use Thorium, during the Manhattan projects is, one guy Plutonium, the other guy went the other direction should say. And the reason a Thermal reactor's so different see at this scale but this is what these nuclei a neutron in a reactor, going around you would spectrum. You know, big targets and the blue represents and the red represents if you hit it, it's the neutron. So you see, look, Plutonium's a big target about a third of the time, you hit it, you're a fission. On the other hand Uranium-233, most time you than an absorption. Now look down here at the fast spectrum, if--you time you--you hit the--you hit at the nuclei, is you don't hit it very often. So a thermal reactor gets a lot better fuel the same amount of heat. The upshot of that is a thermal reactor like more heat per unit fissile fuel than a fast So that was another basic reason to go this So some of the lessons for LFTR, only Thorium reactor. You can't do this with, with natural Uranium, that. and so it's a basic fork in the road that of those three fissile fuels, we really ought it's basic advantage.&quot; So how does Thorium make energy? Well, starting with Thorium 232 it absorbs what doesn't last very long. It decays really quickly to protect Thorium Now Protactinium's chemically distinct from so you can separate it chemically in a way go to decay the Uranium 233 and that's the Now it gets hit by a neutron, it's going to that will continue the nuclear process and is how you burn Thorium, this is how you burn It's a four-step process and because all these Thorium all up at once, you know, it's not to go off. Thorium represents a great way to store energy a very measured rate in the reactor. A friend of mine brought this today, this course this isn't Thorium but its kind of Thorium, a hundred grams of Thorium would if it was used in a liquefied reactor. So it would have been really neat if we could've and, and even I actually investigated this Thorium here. We found out that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission I don't know why, I mean Thorium is natural, You've walked over far more than a hundred that. But I'm going to hand these around to you that you are holding your lifetime supply it was really Thorium. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] Okay. Okay. Looks like we've got some actual Thorium ore a lifetime supply of energy but it's an awful So, nature was very kind to give us this stuff. In fact, sometimes I just think, you know, live on a planet that has this much Thorium. And then it turns out all the other planets You know, NASA's figured out there's lots we have maps of the moon's Thorium deposits It says, &quot;Here I am. Come get me. I'm right here.&quot; So, it's not going around this stuff, on the Okay. So, going back to Eugene and--and--and Enrico, to Wigner. He said, &quot;How are you going to use this stuff? How are you going to prevent losses, because neutron?&quot; Wigner, I really think, was one of those minds future back into the past. I mean, he was just so, so, so far ahead of And he said, &quot;We're going to build a fluid And the reason why, is his background was As a chemical engineer, he was used to dealing When you used chemicals or you'd use reactants first you just turn it into liquid and when But you do everything as a liquid. And so his principle, basically, going into And here was the basic idea, we were going 233 in it and it was going to be fissioning out and it was going to be turning Thorium Then you were going to just chemically isolate you know I don't mean that literally, right? Don't eat Thorium. But--they're going to isolate it and then So, you just kept doing this process and that Okay. So, one of the basic advantage is is in fluid of using Thorium. When used in solid form, you run into those one but I didn't have the art skills to mention Xenon 135 is the biggest neutron poison we It just loves eating neutrons. I wanted to make a picture of it on the map, to Pluto or something like that. I mean it is just huge and it gobbles up neutrons. And this was a real problem when they built And Wigner realized, &quot;Now, if I had this in just come right out.&quot; So, that's a very big deal. If we had reactor operators here today they'd have battling Xenon in solid fuelled reactors. It's a real pain in the tail when you--when This was a big advantage for them. So, off they went in different directions. Fermi's group building the first liquid metal And then Wigner's group in Oak Ridge, building This was not a Molten Salt Reactor, this used And, well, I love this picture, a beaker of That's actually a--that's actually a solution Uranyl nit--Uranyl sulfate dissolved in heavy And they really ran this thing and it had There was no aqueous form of Thorium. You couldn't dissolve Thorium into water. You could dissolve Uranium into water but And that was a real problem as they tried They didn't know how to solve it. They worked on it, they worked on it, but Well, every now and then something sucker for. And this is what happened to these guys at They had this program to build and aircraft hokey. They didn't think it was a good idea. In fact, Alvin Weinberg, who ran the lab said, believed that nuclear airplanes were a good It was the only way that we could keep building That the purpose was unattainable if not foolish A high temperature reactor could be useful an airplane.&quot; So, in the--in one of the earlier examples and the military's money, they definitely Sure, we'll build you an aircraft reactor.&quot; And it was, boy, it was super hard because burn solid fuel really hard and it begins and you get radiation damage and all your and the worst one being that Xenon 135 it In fact when you run a reactor really hard, It makes it very difficult to control. You can get what's called xenon transients don't have time to go into the details of a nuclear bomber over Siberia and you run back and says, &quot;Captain, we're going to have overriding our reactivity control.&quot; &quot;Okay that's fine, I'll just--I'll just put of Siberia and wait for my xenon to decay No, that's not an option, that's a really So, they learned really quick. They're like &quot;Man, we have got to have a reactor And the guy's at Oak Ridge were just scraping to do this? Because we know this water version isn't going of?&quot; Somebody had the great idea, &quot;Say hey, what Well what's the fluoride? Fluorides are salt, salts are really, really We use salts all the time, I brush my teeth And the nice thing about salt--about fluorides they are, they can go to really high temperatures This was sort of the beginning of the idea Sounds good so far, I can see where you're They're sort of the inherent physical married build a reactor out of this stuff?&quot; And this was the birth of the liquid fluoride So say &quot;Can we dissolve uranium and flour--and Well, it turns out yeah, you can. It's really easy in fact, you can dissolve into the salt and guess what? You can actually theoretically make a reactor. Now again, this was still theoretical, okay, It'll dissolve good, we know we've got a--an--a make a reactor out of it. So they built this guy. The aircraft reactor experiment, this was This thing ran for about 100 hours at some by a nuclear reactor and what's even cooler This wasn't some big high pressure reactor, and they found out it was self-controlling. And do you remember I told you guys about How do you make a reactor self-controlling? They made it self-controlling because as the the core and so the reaction rate would slow And as the salt got cooler and got denser, rate would increase. So they found that this reactor just basically the heat removal, it would power up, as they power down. Now again, go back to the cockpit of the airplane. This is a great thing if you're the pilot, the back trying to run your reactor. You want to put your hand on the--on the throttle And you want that reactor to go &quot;Yeah, here you know, and power right up. And that's what this reactor could do because reactivity. This reactor wanted to follow whatever you You didn't have to use control rods or move It was self-controlling and it was chemically have fission and it would still not screw This is a picture of the Air Force colonel, reactor for the last time. They only ran it for 100 hours, it was just Okay, after that, boy they got so excited. They wanted to build a really big version They call it the Fireball and it was going show how this was--was really going to power But what happened was--oh, here--here's a like. It looks a lot like Palmolive, you know, if dishes with Palmolive. 2 like that liquid but it doesn't run like You--you go and think it's really viscous, So it's--you can pour it. Now--now it's hot, don't get me wrong you But it-but it has about the consistency of as well. Okay, so a lesson from LFTR to extract from at a completely unexpected direction. That's what the aircraft reactor program was And those guys trying to use Thorium, it was And fluoride fuel is the only way to build reactor. You build it out of solid fuel, you're going around that. Except Fast spectrum--indication of problems. Okay. So, Weinberg after the Aircraft Reactor Program never really wanted the Aircraft Reactor program I wanted a civilian Reactor Program.&quot; I love this quote, &quot;Until then I had never the breeder but now I became obsessed with on the breeder.&quot; Now when he says breeder, he means the ability saying. We tend to think of liquid metal breeders, I understand that kind of zeal and passion I really feel like this discovery of Thorium for us and that indeed if we are going to planet, that it's going to be dependant on So he began to put together a small team and to continue designing this. Now he had a basic advantage. It was really easy to separate Thorium and And this is another great trick that nature If you pack Uranium in solution with fluorine which is gaseous. And that will just come right as a solution. So, it was a one step process to remove the will become the fuel, in this case the Thorium. This trick doesn't work in Uranium Plutonium of the particular chemical characteristics So again nature is--nature is kind. Lesson for LFTR. The ability to separate this stuff is a big You can do it at high radiation fields. It's inherently chemical process. There's no cooling off that's required. So, this got them even more excited and then One day, they were meeting in 1959 and they to build experiments. And so they had to cost less than a million The guy who did--the guy who ran the--what Molten Salt Reactor Experiment, he wrote the How many of you guys could write a proposal Yeah, I couldn't do it either but--all right, sometimes in the real world is when people for it. They want the answer right then. They want the proposal. So, you got to be ready. And to keep things simple he just wanted to to build. He wanted to have it bigger. He wanted to have it--have more power but the Atomic Energy Commission wanted. So this is what the Molten Salt Reactor experiment It was a bunch of graphite fuel elements in fuel through it. And here it is sitting in its hot cell. You can see the reactor kind of in the middle. There's the salt pump and the heat exchangers. So, you'd run the--you'd run the salt through would give up its heat to the heat exchanger And they ran this reactor for about five years a lot of the features that we would want ultimately Online refueling, they did it. This is actually a capsule and they would it in the reactor and they were just kind away. When they wanted to take out the Uranium, They showed that that worked. They could remove all the Uranium. Actually did that 1968. And then they did a sample where they took all the good stuff out of the fuel and they So, each of these steps was really demonstrated And they have this fantastic safety feature. It's called the freeze plug. Now, because the fuel is so hot, if you cool And it will lock up in the pipe and so they of pipe and it kept--it kept part of the salt So, the whole idea was if you lost all power off, all the juice off, all that would happen would drain out into a drain tank that was Now this is so cool because this reactor--in to the reactor in an emergency situation. And that makes them hard to build because run and make power 99.9% of the time but in the emergency cooling in and override everything This reactor was the complete opposite. You could have the core just do what it was it would send the fuel to the safe place. It would send the fuel to the place where So, fantastic safety feature. And one of the ones that they demonstrated afternoons they wouldn't want to leave the So they'd just go in and they turn off all The thing would drain into the tanks. It would lock--it would freeze up over the They turned the heaters on. They pumped it out of the tanks back up into So, I mean they did this over and over, over Fantastic safety feature. Here's a picture of the building the MSRE Now, that's not actually the MSRE but, uh, concrete slab. I was there a few years ago and--and got to So if you ever get a chance to go out to Oak take you over to the old MSRE building ORNL Okay. So lessons for LFTR from the MSRE. You got to be ready to demonstrate your idea to get much warning. They're going to want the answer and a working So, one of things I love to tell people like, And I go &quot;We'll, they did it. It really works.&quot; And they demonstrated not all but most of Well after doing that, they really wanted and they began to go through different design Salt Breeder Reactor, The MSBR. Some had pebbles, some had prismatic filaments to have these sections in the middle that surround the whole thing with a Thorium blanket. Kind of like that schematic that we showed This was about where they--where they stopped It's a little hard to see but the fuel would the top and then come back down in an annulus. And it--it led to a lot of plumbing problems And that was a real concern for them because respond under irradiation. And here's more pictures just showing what But the really appealing thing about this cycle. I mean you would make the--you would make would introduce it to the core, you'd burn When it was time to reprocess the core, you stuff and you were just left with fission So, it was just a super simple closed nuclear Here it is in--in more schematics. I'm--I'm going to leave all these slides, these at your leisure. A lot of these things I'm, I'm flying through But I want you to, to get an idea for the Now, the real problem they had was with graphite. Graphite would swell--or first it would contract And as they began to realize this they thought, to build this reactor aren't going to work is going to change.&quot; and so forth. So, they had to--they had to move away from So, for us we got to realize that the plumbing And I--I think it can be, I have some really But the overall appeal of the two-fluid reactor very, very simple fuel cycle. Well, after the two-fluid they moved to a of problems for another. Now, the Thorium and the Uranium were mixed The core was a lot simpler it was just these--it It was just these prismatic fuel elements prismatic elements of graphite. You'd pump the salt in the bottom, it would and then it would be pumped up out the top. So, it was a very, very simple reactor design. Unfortunately the simplicity in the reactor The reprocessing went from being easy to hard. And the basic reason for that is it's very products. They chemically are very similar. In the two-fluid approach, the Thorium wasn't wasn't taking place where the Thorium was. The Thorium's in the blanket, the Uranium It's easy to separate Uranium from fission So, that's why it got complicated. So, a lesson for LFTR, fixing one problem create often is bigger than the first. So, maybe we should be thinking about a two-fluid that I'm a big advocate for the two-fluid Okay. Well, if you want to have a reactor that is bit about, &quot;Why are reactors not so compact And this shows what a containment structure Here's the reactor which, although it's big, The reason that containment is so big is because breached somehow the water will flash the That water is being held in about 3,000 psi So, if you breach the--the reactor or the going to flash to water. So, your containment has to be big enough And in fact at the Watts Bar reactor they there to condense the steam that would come being breached. On the other hand with the fluid reactor technology, Because even if you were to go and breach that would happen is the salt would probably Because it's not under pressure and the outside's So, that's that, that, that would be nice would kind of go &quot;glug, glug, glug&quot;. It would fall down the side it would hit this tank. So, there's no evolution of--of--of steam. There's no chemical reaction that's going And either way whether you do terrible damage to end up in the drain tanks. So, that's a really nice feature if you want want to think about really inherent possibilities So, lesson for LFTR, if you want a close-fitting phases or undergoes violent reactions like That's the nice thing about this reactor. All right. So what happened to this, well part of it run by a guy named Milt Shaw. And he was very driven to build the liquid These are Weinberg's he said &quot;Milt tackled know what that word is. Dedication will be into any that stood in This caused problems for me since I was still Milt was like a ball he--he enjoyed congressional It was clear he had little confidence in me After all, we were pushing molten-salt and More than that, we were being quite troublesome I didn't mention this earlier, Allen Weinberg He holds the patent on that design that is He knew its--its capabilities and its limitations. He felt like this was a better approach but There was a congressman who ran the Joint and they were having a conversation, he and exasperated and said &quot;Alvin if you are so think it may be time for you to leave nuclear So what happened was Alvin Weinberg, the Wernher fired because his opinions were variance with Congressional Leadership. He called Nuclear Energy a Faustian bargain So, very important lesson for LFTR, even if bosses will still fire you if you get in the &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] was even worse than the Atomic Energy Commission. He owned a huge chunk of the Navy and--sorry, &gt;&gt; And Congressional Approval. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: And Congressional approval. So, these guys, were in--were in--were in Okay, so we'll set that part of the story part of the story which is, what do we do What are we facing now? Well if we look at spent nuclear stuff that And we look at the radiotoxicity of the three The fission products, the Uranium, the spent of the fission product drops off rather rapidly On the other hand, the unburned fuel the Plutonium So, if you can go and--if you can go and remove over the long run that's much lower than even Now how do you do this in a Thorium Reactor? Well the basic physical advantage you have 232, and you've got to march pretty far up 239. And as you march up that chain there's two you're probably going to get turned into energy reactor in a way where you will make very, In fact if you pull out the Neptunium you'll But if you don't you're going to have a very On the other hand in a Light Water Reactor on your very first step. You going to absorb a neutron, you're going And it's not as good of a fissile fuel. You begin marching though these higher actinides whole bunch of other stuff I don't want to But what it means though is, if you want to bet is to start with--with Thorium. So, avoid making transuranics while you make Thorium approach. Now, today we've got spent nuclear fuel accumulating A typical one gigawatt reactor will make about what they do is they take this fuel which products and they put it in these cooling The radioactivity in the heat generation drop this stuff. Here's, here's a graph that really opened This is, this is the amount of spent nuclear how much we can legally put in Yucca Mountain. Now we'll get to Yucca Mountain in just a But you can see that, it's not going to be nuclear fuel is going to have Yucca pretty And then even if we expand Yucca Mountain Yucca Mountain could be--could hold a lot take all that long to get there. Especially the constant 100 Gigawatts we're If we start building more nuclear reactors I say nuclear reactors I mean light water a lot sooner. This is a really big deal for a government spent nuclear fuel. Under current nuclear regulations--under current fuel we're going to create, in Yucca Mountain. And especially if we build, we build a lot So this was the approach that's been advocated or eight years or so. It's now no longer being advocated but this spent nuclear fuel and we're going to go separate burner reactor rather than a fast breeder We're going to go and we're going to burn amount of the transuranic waste that we're Now, our current approach to nuclear reprocessing--this or Urex or some variants of Herex--and it's acid and liquids and so forth. You have to let the nuclear fuel cool down a very complicated process. Because like I said before, the first thing it into a liquid. And then once you turn it to a liquid, you're the components out, and then at the end you're a solid again. And so, our typical approach to reprocessing Now, the French have--they've really mastered Hague where--where they do this but it's a to make this work. We know it's possible but it's difficult. Now, on the other hand, the reprocessing we really simple. We just fluorinate the blanket and we introduce a--on a batch scale approach, we can go and This doesn't has to be done really regularly. It can be done on a longer time scale. So, this is a complete nuclear fuel cycle Okay. So, the natural question to ask is, &quot;Is there could do for our existing light water spent And the answer is, &quot;Yes, absolutely.&quot; Because the first step we do with normal Uranium That's the--that's how it's put into a gaseous Chris asked me to ask whoever is on the VC So, I'm going to assume whoever you are, you Okay. So, here's the composition of spent nuclear Then there's this ZIRC, which is mostly Zirconium, of the fuel element. There's some hardware that's used to pull Now you see that it says TRU 0.7%, that's that really drives a place like Yucca Mountain stuff?&quot; because the other--that's the fission They are very radioactive right now, but because quickly. They're going away and within a few hundred of radiation. The fission products are not our long term The long term waste problem is the transuranics. They are the ones that have thousand year Okay. So, what could we do about this? We could fluorinate that oxide fuel. We could change it from being oxides and make And then once we got all these fluorides we that we use on LFTR but now use it on spent We take out the Uranium as Uranium Hexafluoride. We bubble fluorine gas through it and take Now, Uranium that's been in a reactor is basically in the ground. In fact my vote for it would be to just go no different than the Uranium that's sitting What's really--what we want to do is to burn a number of different ways we can do it. We could do that in LFTR, we could do it in salt fluorides. But the idea is we want to burn this stuff We want to isolate those fission products use LFTR to stop making more transuranic waste. Because we run LFTR, we can avoid making the It's probably not stupid. &gt;&gt; If you take Uranium [INDISTINCT] ...fission [INDISTINCT] &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] &gt;&gt; ...because that means that, like the vast &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: The vast majority of uranium So, you get--the question was--is, where are And there in the other category and then he Uranium never fissions and that's correct. In a light water reactor the vast majority Okay. Now if we could take this approach, the way if we wait for it to get to the same radiotoxicity you know, 300,000 years. If we go ahead and take out the Plutonium which isn't that impressive to get it to there. But if we remove all the Plutonium, Uranium fuel, so to speak, we can get that down to That's basically the curve for just fission And that green curve is where we can get with haven't been using LFTR, we've been using this fluoride reactor technology to go and The Uranium, we just go stick in the ground we want with it. I have another request for a mic to be muted &gt;&gt; Whoever is on the VC turn off your mic. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Okay. That was Chris. Better listen to him. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Okay. So, my lesson for LFTR. We can use these Fluoride reprocessing technologies handling spent nuclear fuel. And then we can use the results of that to problem in the future. So, this is really the break in nuclear technology let's go in this Thorium direction. This direction that we ignored for so long nuclear age. And let's use this approach to solve our long I want to show you the waste generation because power that are based around how much waste And so I started it with the assumption that energy and I used an anti-nuclear site to So, I figured it would be considered fairly There's better sites than this but--the whole a Uranium fuelled reactor we're going to mine Now, there are some sites that have a lot There are some sites that have much higher So, I mean take that for what it's worth or &gt;&gt; You said 80,000 but it says 800,000. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: I'm sorry 800,000, my, thank Thank you for catching me on that. Okay. Now--and after we go and we make all this 35-40 metric tons of spent nuclear fuel and This is what we do today. Now, contrast that with the Thorium approach. Now, who's got the--who's got the Thorium? Ian, you got the Thorium? Okay. Now, I don't recall exactly what is the percentage What would you say it was, Ian? &gt;&gt; Half percent. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Half percent. Okay. So, I'm going to show there &quot;half percent.&quot; &gt;&gt; High grade ore for Thorium is 20. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Okay. And a high grade ore for Thorium is 20 % so &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] of half a percent--this is a shell right, &gt;&gt; I don't know if that's the shell or not &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: This is from the Lemhi Pass in This piece of rock right here contains about And I believe about 25 milligrams of Thorium, &gt;&gt; Yeah. That has sufficient energy to orbit an SUV. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Sufficient energy to orbit an Okay. So here--there's something perverse about Okay. So, here I am, I'm holding this piece of rock If I had two hundred metric tons of this rock, roughly a metric ton of Thorium. And If I did that, I would be able to put burn it up completely to U-233. And I would make about 0.8 metric tons of That would just be the fission product. So, 200 tons of this rock is not so hard for We can probab--I'm not--how much do you think I bet we could put a pile of it in this room. I don't know, we might break the floor. But I mean you're talking about a gigawatt This is just a staggering amount of energy. And there's a lot, there's a lot more where So, this is pretty exciting to have a technology--Weinberg He said, he said &quot;Boy, this is so good that content.&quot; In fact I did a calculation that if you took of average crust has about 12 grams of Thorium And that would be enough to power your life In--in Western standards. So, that's an awful lot of energy. That's a, that's a pretty neat rock. Yes sir? &gt;&gt; You still have 8% [INDISTINCT] ...fission [INDISTINCT] Those are--yeah. That's a good question. He said you still have a--in fact you still You don't really change mass much as you burn So, if you burn up a ton of Thorium you're The fission products are, like I said, they're of them from a... &gt;&gt; Some of them are not radioactive [INDISTINCT] Yeah. They all are born very radioactive but because them have decayed to stability. I was really amazed when I started doing the How fast fission products find stability. They do it really quickly. So, in a week you have about half are stable So, you can actually go and take that waste things in there, things like Rhodium. Anybody know what Rhodium is? It's worth about 10 times more per ounce than You can extract it, it's stable after about in the spent fuel. So--and there's other things you can extract In fact, some of the most useful things in like Strontium 90, Cesium 137, that could food and destroy pathogens. There's a number of very interesting things But right off the bat, we're talking about And a waste form that's in a way that we can in much more easily because they're liquid. Okay. So, I'll come back to the chart I showed at tons of Natural Uranium that came out of our fuel. But one ton of Natural Thorium will give us 83% of those fission products are stable and Yes sir? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] what makes Thorium [INDISTINCT] fundamentally more energy dense is that we In a thermal spectrum reactor, both of these burn a part of the Uranium in a thermal spectrum The only way to burn up all the Uranium is &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] reach it all the way to pure U-235 but then you are able to burn it all up. So. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] right. The most abundant natural isotope of Thorium And that is the fuel for this versus in a is U-235 which is only 0.7%. &gt;&gt; You get big savings because obviously Uranium &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yes. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] to use the Uranium it has to be enriched. And you can see most of the Uranium ends up It ends up as depleted Uranium at the enrichment Only 35 tons of it actually goes into the in this approach. So, does that help answer your question? That's the basic, I mean, if you take Uranium energy density, if you fission them all up. The real advantage is the ability to fission That's the big hit in--in--in the Thorium Okay. And then just--again showing some of these this approach and we take this radical increase talk about efficiency is our low hanging fruit. That's what we need to go out for first, I Let's go after efficiency.&quot; I'll give you 301 improvement on efficiency over Uranium. This is--in conclusion, this gives us options economic nuclear power that can last thousands, It's really fun to run the numbers on this It's almost staggering and you--and if you be the answer, this could be a--the silver society. And this also offers real options for solving light water fuel, our spent nuclear fuel. And ultimately preventing the formation of And finally, I want to thank Google because And I love Gmail, and I love your search engine, has been thanks to Google. So, I could not have done anywhere near the And you didn't even charge me for it. You guys are awesome. Thank you so much and thank you for having &gt;&gt; As we end the talk just before questions, who's a Geologist at the Idaho Geological She got us these rocks at the last minute. I really appreciate it. Thanks a lot, Virginia. &gt;&gt; I'll be around for questions. We had a few but anybody have any more questions? Yes, sir, right there? You, all right, you go first. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] question but it was long, I can't--the cache here and say your questions, I would appreciate &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] it's going to be short now So, just to understand what you were saying of this Thorium process is that we breed Thorium chemically extractable as opposed to being to do an isotopic separation which is much So then my question is and I think you sort but just so--if you could give me a concise This should be possible that Uranium 238 and then chemically separate those two species. But no one ever talks about that. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: You're absolutely right. You can breed Uranium 238 to Plutonium 239 two. Couple of things with that, that's exactly They were just--first of all, they're using the blanket. The Uranium 238 blanket for a certain period to take it out and actually separate out the they called Driver fuel to go in the core. So your first disadvantage is you're using You can imagine doing fluid fuel versions But in the other part is, is that beautiful fluorinate the Uranium out and leave the Thorium They are too similar to each other. But if you go to try the fluorinate out Plutonium the Uranium will come out. So, if you're--if you're fluorinating the fluorinating all of it versus the stuff you And then it's really--it's really one of the doing it this way. The other part of it is, is going back to sorry, the neutronics. You can't burn up the Plutonium effectively So these effects work together to make this It's not impossible or inconceivable but from lot more difficult than doing it this way. One thing I love about this as an engineer tangible straightforward easy to do already That are based on well understood chemistry can go and do and make this happen. This isn't that hard comparatively. So--was that--would that answer your question? Okay. And we can get anybody who has a question--if up and say it in the microphone. Ma'am? You ask the question is anyone actually doing Was that your question? Is anyone actually building this? No darn it. Why not? I know, I think the exact thing, &quot;Why not?&quot; you know. It's a great idea. I had a slide, I took it out this morning. It showed a pile of cash and I said Lessons Don't fool yourself this can cost a lot of So, it's a good thing I'm here, you know. Yes Sir? The question was, given proper funding and work these things out? I've kind of--it's a very good question I I kind of broke into a couple of different The first one I would call the Manhattan Project The Manhattan project Approach is everybody doing, work on this. We're throwing the whole national effort at I think if we took that approach, which would we could have a prototype up and running in production reactors being built in five years. Now, truly I don't think that's going to happen. You know, that is just only in brutal war The next level I call the Skunkworks Approach. And the Skunkworks approach is you get good you have the--the means and so forth you need you know. They go home to their wives and children at And you live a regular life. In that approach I could see us being to a to a production series of reactors in about That would be the scenario I'd see there. And then there's what I call the Business of what we're doing today. In that approach nothing ever happens and than where we are now. So hopefully we will--I would really like I think that is a reasonable approach to consider. Lars? I worked for the government and I've discovered things cost depending on the skill and the it. Given competent intelligent people who are my estimate would be we could be to that prototype million dollars. That would be my guess. With Mickey Mouse and fooling around and goofing So--but we don't want that we want smart people Man this is a fun place to come. Lars? &gt;&gt; Your estimate of 2-3 years that correlates was basically a two year project. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: The comment was the estimate Manhattan project. And one of the things that I wanted to mention there we showed, Plutonium for bombs versus Plutonium was a laboratory curiosity. I mean they discovered it in 1941 it was like, And from 1941 to 1945 when they actually dropped I mean you got to remember they went from, make it&quot; to &quot;oh my goodness we are making and the fabrication and so forth. Plutonium has crazy metallurgical properties. It has, like, some eight different crystalline I mean it was a--it was a devil to figure it and all these other tricks. But I mean they were throwing unlimited national minds on earth. And they went from lab curiosity to working So, I mean things can move really fast when to do but do this. And you read their mail. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] the original MSRE was a five-year The idea [INDISTINCT] was a five year project and that's--I love 1960 and they turned it on in 1965. I'd say they knew way less about how to do In fact, they learned so many things from just skip right to having this enormous database Sir? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] other countries that are looking at this, There are other countries that are looking Probably the most active program that's going I had the good fortune to sit down with one His name is Dr. Jan Hulik--I'm sorry Uhlir, Dr. Jan Uhlir, and I sat down with him a few He is at a nuclear research institute there, And they are doing great work with fluorination through--he gave a talk and I went through that they were really in the lead. There is another group in France probably on this. There's some interest in Japan. There's great interest in Thorium in India They are taking a solid core approach and because it's going to take them a long time the solid core route. Whereas, if they went the liquid fuelled route But India says more about Thorium than anybody I mean they're absolutely committed to becoming And I would love to help them go and do it and money so. Sir? &gt;&gt; What's the best size for a Thorium reactor? [INDISTINCT] make it small [INDISTINCT] or &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: The question was, &quot;what's the And let me jump back and show you something. That's a great question. It enables me to tell you something that I of the big problems when you went from the Let me bring this up. That Thorium blanket also acts as a neutron to go to die. When you make that all one fluid, you get and you get a lot of neutron leakage. So what that meant when they went from one-fluid big. And if they made it much smaller than about to burn Thorium. They couldn't get a conversion ratio of one. &gt;&gt; That's a one-fluid reactor? &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: That's a one-fluid reactor whereas of the basically almost think of it like an terms. If you go with the two-fluid reactor, you So, the two-fluid reactor gives you remarkable I would say probably the practical lower limit I mean you can build reactors that have less get any smaller, you know, you want it--what's start--stops scaling down. I would say probably down somewhere between And then how far up do you want to go? Pretty much as far as you want. I mean we could conceive building ten-gigawatt here in the audience that said &quot;No, that that's You want to--you want to actually--it's ironic, This really lends itself to that approach 400 megawatt units or 100 megawatt in dispersing way we do today with big systems. And that promotes grid stability, these are They, they strongly follow the load and they don't blowing or anything else. So, it would be really good for a National Yes, sir? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] It's going to be a long one. &gt;&gt; So there--there are two elements to your The building of a LFTR and burning up existing In reality, those two things are--are quite They merely--they both depend upon the technology Is that correct? &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: They both--you're right, they But I would say they would go hand in hand fluoride chemistry to try to separate out not destroy them, you probably wouldn't go You'd probably stick with aqueous reprocessing. But if you're then using those waste to feed going to produce the transuranic wastes, and made, then those two start to go really hand-in-hand So, I mean, if we were starting from a clean no nuclear power and we wanted to start our we'd probably want to just go straight into But right now, we have this heritage of our fuels. We need to think about, how we are going to I mean, I sometimes debate with anti-nuclear do too, and one of the things that really to shut down our reactors because of the waste And I go, &quot;well, it's still going to be there It's not going to magically disappear, you You got to figure out what to do with it. And this is a way to transition into a future keep having this problem. Yes? &gt;&gt; So where does the [INDISTINCT] waste. Where does that go in, here? &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: The question was, &quot;You take the go in here?&quot; That could potentially replace the U-233 as You got to start this thing with something, It's got to have some fissile material to The idea I really like is to have a few LFTRs some really secure site. And you would just feed them, this junk from And then you would pull all of their U233 into that reactor, but to go start other LFTRs So, you could start most of your lifters clean And you could have a few of them just kind waste. Did I answer your question? &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Okay. Let's get--well, we can talk more after. I don't know have much time we have. Do we need to--keep going? Okay great. Go ahead, sir. &gt;&gt; Does this have any use in space? &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Does this have any use--what The question was, &quot;does this have any use That was the very first thing I looked at the NASA. And I got interested in this, from a friend And he said &quot;you know this would make a great And we spent a few years looking at it. It has some advantages for space. In fact, I would really like to go try it We probably wouldn't build LFTR though, for We would probably just have a fluoride reactor We wouldn't probably go to the trouble of because you're really driven in the space I wanted to look at LFTR but when I started This isn't the right answer for space. I'll just feed it fissile material and let we wanted to build a base on the moon or if if you want a long-term fuel supply, yes. Go with LFTR, in fact, I think this should you know. Kind of showed my space cadet side there. Yes, sir? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] recap I kind of trailed off with, with the I didn't make the overt connection but when protector was gone. And it was not long thereafter before the called Wash 1222. As I like to call it White Wash 1222. That was a review of the technology. It was very negative. It focused almost exclusively on kind of little technology. Completely ignored the safety, completely proliferation and just said &quot;hey, you got The irony was that by the time the report on had already been solved by the Oak Ridge And--but from a political stand point they They were--they're going the wrong direction. What happened was the program was cancelled and they canceled again. A bunch of Oak Ridge guys did try to kind 80's. But I got there a number of times; I've met There's really almost nobody there now who There are just a bit of all of them. There is one individual but the vast majority--the The rest are retired or in old folk's homes go to the old folk's home and talk to them You don't want to do that. They're--you would just embarrass them.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, that's a good point.&quot; Is Oak Ridge still the place to do this? I don't think there is necessarily a central That's why I think any country could go and Any reasonably sized country could really Personally, I'd love to see United States I mean, I think this would be a fantastic But there is no reason why any reasonable quite successfully within their national resources. Yes, sir? &gt;&gt; What's the biggest obstacle? Was it funding? Is it political? &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: The question, &quot;What's the biggest Is it funding? Is it political?&quot; Right now, since there's zero funding, I would But I actually think there's a whole lot better One of the basic problems is, is this stuff in the nuclear world today. A few weeks ago, I was at the American Nuclear And I mean, this is like the nexus of all field. Yet nobody knows about this stuff. I don't mean that in a discouraging way. These are very, very smart people. They just--I've almost finished my master's In that time I had one course that talked And during that course, about ten minutes And during that ten minutes none of it mentioned So, it's entirely possible to go to nuclear never been exposed to any of this stuff that And then when you do go get in the field and core and you learn how to control control kind of stuff. I mean this technology is completely different. It's like the difference between a typewriter You'll get the same thing in the end but what's different. So, I think the real nuclear industry looks going to do with it? We'd be starting from scratch.&quot; So it's great for an entrepreneur but it's would want to get into this. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] industry looks at this and says, 'Nuclear Why change?'&quot; And you know the assertion here is not so I mean the safety record of the nuclear industry It's--it--you would be hard pressed to find megawatt hour,&quot; the nuclear industry. And I'd stand that up against hydro, wind, until you find out, you know, people really Putting up windmills and putting solar panels You can get killed doing that kind of thing. As a friend of mine told me at a nuclear site, come back five minutes later, there'll be ten inspectors around it with clipboards, to try to figure out why it was you dropped So I mean these guys really run safe. And I think the incentive here is really to higher fuel efficiencies. And the safety is great, you know. I don't want to come here and talk about an incentive. Chris? &gt;&gt; I think that our first incentive is that their money making fuel. The Nuclear energy--industry today makes all It's very expensive, it's very exacting, little inside. This would make all the fuel kind of at-the-plant away. And that's a--it's a huge revenue stream and in designing a reactor that cuts off their &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: That's excellent point he makes vendors would sell reactors at a slight loss contract. It's almost like the razor blade's approach. You sell the razor--you sell the unit cheap And so the whole cost structure around today's that has cheap, simple, easy to process fuel. Yes sir? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] I've said are true for countries that already What about emerging countries who are doing Why can't they start here? And the most obvious example to me, this is India is a really interesting situation because equipment when they tested their bombs in But there's a school of thought that I pretty was probably not a good idea. That India really did not deserve to be treated India has done remarkable things in nuclear Absolutely. In fact, I would love to bend the ear of--of is a way for you to get to your goals with approach you're taking.&quot; But in India there is a lot of inertia to It's a different kind of inertia than we have But I think India is the most logical country Ma'am? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] else tied in the Obama administration?&quot; Several of my friends and I on our own time, Campaigns previous to the election. No, we don't treat this as a partisan thing. The energy is for everybody. And we were not able to meet with anyone from to talk with Senator McCain's chief energy He was a former director of the CIA. He really embraces--he thought it was a great In fact his quote was &quot;Call me on November Well, you know McCain did not get elected, I do think though that the goals of the Obama this approach and I think they would find Oh, sorry? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] Chu know about this?&quot; Not to my knowledge. There was a quote that came out that was attributed representative about this technology. I have reasons to think that there were some was corrosive and--and there were uncertainties I--you know, it's far better to get into afterwards, been briefed on this. Although I would love to have the opportunity. Sir? &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] nuclear proliferations? Well, we go back to some of the fundamentals, this stuff very, very difficult to work with. Now, the proliferation game is one you can hard to get it to everybody's satisfaction. Almost like you can get a one sigma and two to get everybody. But one piece that I think is very compelling a fluid form, we can do what I call &quot;just We can dump Uranium 238 into the core and of any Uranium that's in there and we can You can't do that with solid fuel elements. You can't take a solid fuel element and all But you can with liquid and the implication--oh, The implication for that though is, if you some type of threat or attack, I mean you make sure that nothing in there would ever The downside of that is you then destroy the you know, so... &gt;&gt; You destroy that fuel? &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: You just--I mean you destroyed then have to take all that fuel out, you drain But it would be a serious economic hit to But there are scenarios where--where that I hate to get in the proliferation game because And one of the things that really blows, is nuclear weapons, they do the same way we did You build a pile of graphite, natural uranium, That's how people develop nuclear weapons. They don't use power reactors. Last question. &gt;&gt; Dave? &gt;&gt; On a more positive note...[INDISTINCT] &gt;&gt; What other applications could you use the like processed heat? [INDISTINCT] applications can we use LFTR for and its distributed One of my favorites is the ability to use Because we couple this reactor to a high temperature &quot;wasty&quot;--which normally is waste, we have I think that would probably a very, very nice water issues and concerns. And pretty much any coastal place in the world desalinated sea water. We can take the electricity from LFTR and One of them would be ammonia which we could hydrogen that we'd split from water. Another one that I'm very interested is called They can be synthesized from methanol and carbon dioxide and also from hydrogen that So, you can imagine LFTRs running kind of everybody and then at night when everybody switch over to &quot;let's make--let's make fuel So, we know that to tackle our global warming number one, coal, and number two, transportation. And I really think that between this and electric ether or ammonia, we can make a big difference. Also one of the ones that excites me is the and fertilizer is the basis of modern agriculture.&quot; Right now, our fertilizers are made predominantly Without fertilizer, five out six people on not be able to sustain the agriculture that We need to be able to make ammonia for fertilizer that's a very exciting possibility. All right, thank you so much. &gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] Look I'll just cut it for us.