- Lexicographers will tell you that time, the word, &quot;T-I-M-E,&quot; is the most used noun We can't get through the day without talking about time all the time. I think about how we use time, when we actually talk about it. If you say, &quot;Meet me at 7 p.m.,&quot; no one panics. No one says like, &quot;Oh my God, with these esoteric We all know what to do operationally. Time, in some sense, is just a label on different The Universe happens over and over again at different things we call moments, and time helps us tell the difference between one moment and another. So what time is, I don't The issue- the real puzzles- come about when we talk that time has. We have a past, we have a How are they different? Are we moving through it? We have memories of the past, but we have no memories of the future. Why is that? Where does that asymmetry come from? Why are we all born young? Why do we all inevitably age? Why do we think that we can affect the Could we possibly travel back into it? Anyway, there's a lot of of time that are really confusing and many of them we but what time is, I don't think it's one of them. One of the most noticeable features of time is that it has a direction, right? That there's a difference Sometimes we think about this as just an intrinsic feature of reality. Like the past already the future is up for grabs. It hasn't happened yet, and But then, along comes physics. And what people notice of physics is that those between the past and the future. But in our everyday lives, It really requires a bit of &quot;Well, time could exist without an arrow.&quot; And one way of thinking about that is there is no but there's still space, okay? We live in a three-dimensional world- up, down, left, right, forward, backward- at the level of the there's no special direction in space. And how you perceive that is you're flying around in There wouldn't be any difference between any direction you could look. There's no experiment you could do in physics that would point out a direction in the universe, Likewise, time would still exist even if there wasn't an arrow. But here on Earth, we do If I pick up a coffee cup and let it go, it will always fall down. There's clearly a distinction No one is tempted to think of the Universe. It's not because downness is embedded in the laws of physics. It's because we live in the vicinity of an The arrow of time is exactly the same way. We in our everyday lives, because we live in the aftermath the Big Bang. And that gets us into a realm of the concept of 'entropy.' Entropy is how messy, how disorganized, how random a system is. When things are nice and neat and tidy, they are low entropy. When they're all messy and all over the place, And there's a natural tendency of things in the Universe to go from This is called the 'second The real question is: Why was the world ever low entropy to begin with? Why was the world lower entropy The explanation is not completely The explanation is the following: because it was even lower And why was the Universe before yesterday? Because it was even lower And this chain of reasoning to the Big Bang, to the origin in a hot, dense state, a and the Universe has been And this is called the 'Past David Albert, who's a gave it this name. So now we say, &quot;If you know and you know what entropy is, in terms of rearranging all those atoms, and you know the past hypothesis- that the entropy of the then you can explain everything There's a way of talking about human life and entropy, which is that we should think about life. You know, literally living, taking in food and everything, as a fight against increasing entropy. I think that's wrong. I think that we owe life to the fact that entropy is increasing, because what would it mean if It would mean that nothing is happening. Nothing interesting is taking place. Without entropy increasing, there's no memory of the past. Without entropy increasing, there's no causal effect You'd just be in what we Everything would be the same everywhere. It would be the maximally boring universe. But what we do have as a 'Why do complicated into existence at all?' It's clear that they need because if entropy were already maxed out, there would be no complexity. But that doesn't mean they have to come come into existence. Think about a famous example there: The perfume is all in little bottle. It's in a big room. You open it, and it all The entropy of the perfume increases. But if you think about it, when the perfume is all in Once it's all spread through the room it's also very simple. It went from low entropy to high entropy, but it went from simple to simple. It's the journey from the simple, to the simple, high-entropy ending point, that there's a large space of possibilities where There's more perfume here over there. There can be swirls caused by the motion of the wind in the room and so forth. The Universe is just like that. Our Universe started out In the future, the stars will die, the black holes will evaporate. It'll be dark, empty, and It's in between that things like us- complicated, intricate systems that feed off of the increasing entropy of the Universe- can and do come into existence. We don't know the whole story there. I think it's a very fun, active, Why did complex structures into existence and exactly the way we did? What is the role of information? What is the down-to-Earth What is the geology that is going on here? Could it happen on other planets? Very interesting questions- is that if entropy weren't none of it would've come to pass.