Did you ever need to provide So, you were told to provide a total for, for example, your sales, Only for a certain and for a specific country. Now basically, if ever need to make a sum with exceptions, and especially if these exceptions are more than one thing, which is normally the case in real life, then the sumifs function is for you. Now, notice I'm not Now, you might already be just not with the plus S one. And it's actually popped and surprisingly many people missed it. But it's actually such a Now, what's the difference, you might ask? Well, sumif can only whereas the ifs version can check up to, what, I believe it's 29 criteria. Not that you'll ever need that much. Now, in this lecture, I'm going as well as the sumifs version. Now, averageifs is similar to the sumifs, except that it just checks for the average instead of the sum. Countifs is slightly different, I'm going to show you that as well. Now if you've never used I recommend that you and just learn the ifs version. The reason for this is can do more than the if version and because the syntax of the two differ, you don't always have to think which one should I use now? I personally use the ifs version. Having said that, I'm going by showing you the sumif version of it and just explain to you why Here we have our months, products, country, and sales revenue. From this data, we'd like to for this criteria. So the first analysis we want to do is how much revenue did Because it's just one I can use the sumif function. The syntax is that first comes the range. Which range? It's not the sum range because So the first range here is so it's the place where And that's basically here. So I'm going to click here Ctrl, Shift, down. Next is the criteria itself, which is this one. And then there's the sum range. So I do the same thing, Ctrl, Shift, down. And let's check that. That looks right. Okay, so that was the sumif function. Very simple, you can see that Now we have two criteria So we want to get the sum if it's February and if our product is shirt white. And this is where the sumifs This function was and it made the lives of so Because they no had to to do this type of calculations, they could use a very simple ifs formula. And the way it works is that now the sum range is at the beginning. Because when Microsoft they couldn't leave the because they don't know how many criteria you're going to be So it had to come to the front. And obviously, they couldn't because then it wouldn't be compatible with the older Excel versions. That's why this new So our sum range is our revenue. And next is the criteria criteria range two, depending on how many In this case, we have two. So, the first range of our criteria, where we actually find Then comes the actual criteria. And now we move on to criteria range two, so where can we find this? In here. And this is the actual Now let's check that as well. So we have Feb, shirt white is this one. These four, 2028, 2028. Now, in the next example, we've been given a further criteria to say and the sales that we had in the US. So we do the same thing. I'm just actually going to copy this. Just move these ones down. The ranges are the same. So, all I have to do is add an And so first is the and then is actual criteria itself. Okay, 1618, 1618. One other thing I can and comparison operators or a combination of these. So, for example, if I was actually looking so I have to put quotation marks, and put shirt wh and quotation marks, it finds it. Okay, whereas if I take that So I can use this sign to find anything that starts with Now let me show you how to So if we have this, but instead of USA, we want to add the sales revenue only if it is greater than 500. If it's not greater than So now let's write that one. So we do sumifs, some range, criteria one is February. Criteria two, our product. Okay, now we come to criteria three. So we want to only sum if their So in this case, what's our criteria? It's the revenue. It's this one. So it can be our sum range, but it can also be our criteria. And the criteria itself is Let's check that. So, we have shirt white, this one, so this is not greater than 500. This is yes and that's yes. Less and that's March. 1126, 1126. The only thing you need to keep in mind when you add the comparison operators is that you need to put them, if you're not putting it in a cell and you actually want you can't do this. You get an error. You need to put it in quotation marks because it's like text. You don't have to put necessarily your number in the quotation marks, you can also do this. Or you can have your number in a cell and do a cell reference to the number like this. So basically, I have and then &amp; connecting it to this cell. Okay, so just don't forget, when you're adding these operators, put them in the quotation marks. And that's the sumifs function. Now averageifs works The only difference is that it takes the average instead of the sum. So, in this case, you Okay, it's taking now the average of the revenue for Feb and shirts white. The count is slightly different because you don't need you don't need that sum range. So let me show you the countif first. You just need range and criteria. So we're just going to count if in this range, there is February. And so, how many occurrences That's our range. That's our criteria. Eight, so we have February eight times. That's right. Now, the ifs version allows us to check for more criteria and So, we say criteria range one is the same, so that's our month. Criteria range two, that's our product. So four. Basically, we have four and shirt white in here. It's this one, this one, where is the other one? And this one. And the same for this. We have now three criteria to check. Again, you do the same thing. Three. One, two, and three. The other thing I'm going to show you is the advantage of Excel tables. So let's say in this oh, we were missing something in February, you have to add this number. So I'm just going to put a big Obviously, your values here in your report are not going to update because they're not You will have to manually expand these. But to avoid that, you And Excel tables are great for such cases. So all you have to do is and press Ctrl T. This is data for our Okay, now it's an official table, and you know that you get this And now if I add my new data My numbers are updated automatically. And let's click on one and you can see the range That's the advantage of Excel tables. Now, I generally never like so, to remove that, you just go to design and you select clear. You go back to your own The other neat thing about this is that if your table is really long, you see that it changes to the table headers when you scroll down. This is kind of like a It only does it for here, and once you are out of your table, you see the usual column headers. As you can see, the ifs version allows you to easily add exceptions to your sum, average, and count calculations. Now, don't make your life more difficult by trying to use Excel Use the ifs version instead. Now it's your turn. Go ahead and do the (warm exotic music)