(dramatic music) - Hawksmoor, in its bones, is a steakhouse and the kind of culture is we've merged the UK The adrenaline of the and the team kind of pushes (upbeat music) Morning, guys, doing good? My day starts with people and product. So first is checking on the team and then doing the same and making sure that (upbeat music) So this is some meat that we've selected from the delivery that just came in. These are the cuts that A small percentage of the here today at Hawksmoor. First thing we're always So our beef supply is usually the first to come through the door in the morning. We check it in. We inspect it. On a weekly basis, we go where we try to utilize the whole carcass as much as possible. So we sell almost the whole cow. Incredible amount of beef (knife clanging) So this is Chef Paddy. Sous chef here in charge steak development, everything - So this is a whole rump, off the bone, so fresh out of our dry aging facility. So the rump is the bum, basically. It's a hardworking muscle and top sirloin is what it's known as. It's my personal favorite cut. - [Matt] The rump steak is as part of our sustainability mission. And also with our UK roots, being such a popular cut it was really important to and show them how - Is we'll actually use this - Paddy is here from the UK, a long-time member of the Hawksmoor team and he's the driving force and grill at Hawksmoor. Having someone with Paddy's skill, how to train the staff, both was really a big integral part And he's really allowed us to in just being open for three months. He's got his head around ounces now. - Yeah, still getting to We track the dry aging of it. So that we know that it's of what we want in a Hawksmoor steak, it's between 28 and 35. I've just separated off the barrel cup from the D rump. So now we're just gonna break So this is a rump or top sirloin, as known in the US on the menu. 12 ounces it's a fantastic steak. (upbeat music) - This is kind of a cut that So, Brazilians, picanha. In France they call it the culotte, the rump cap in English, and here we just call it delicious. So this is the cut we A huge reason why we chose rump is that that chew to it and that the texture of the umami We're gonna put together a steak tartare so we can make sure that the steak is at the quality we We basically tasted every cut on the cow and the rump outperformed everything else. (upbeat music) We hide the yolk. So it's like a little bit when they cut it open. Fantastic dish, on the menu tonight. (upbeat music) So at Hawksmoor we use a which is actually a replica of the grill in our very first restaurant and every restaurant part of the DNA of who we are. So this is a beautiful lump with charcoal. We get from Ecuador. Huge chunks of wood, really long time. Amazing flavor. - You basically wanna So there's enough oxygen to circulate to help start the fire. The quality of the charcoal, this is good. I mean, it literally So there's no need for any It's just pure, like fire and oxygen. Just playing with the elements and you really wanna nice dry charcoal. And that's why it creates that crack. It's the layers of There's like air trapped in them. It's a sign of good charcoal when it starts to split like that. (fire cracking) - [Matt] Working with charcoal mostly due to the cost of - What you do is you get the grill lit, so that it's super hot. And then you create your hotspots to what your personal cooking style is. So we'll always have and one side that's burning. And then there's like a game of tetris you're always moving from side to side to play with what's best (upbeat music) - Here in America, we know we're in newer country and we're starting to realize and care a bit more about In the UK they have a bit They have ton of old world farming. - Grass-fed is like, kind of almost seen as a whereas in the UK, it's, you know, it's what the majority of our cows are fed and raised on grass. (upbeat music) - Rather than just taking out of the short loin, Porterhouse will have the probably our most popular sharing steak. As you start to go a little bit you get to the t-bone and then you lose the filet totally. Kind of get our bone-in strip out of this, which I would say is my It's beautiful bone on the side. Excellent flavor. Nice and thick. What's your favorite Paddy? - Of the three? - Strip tenderloin. Yeah. - We agree on that one. - Yeah. To be honest, my least (Paddy chuckles) I don't know if you wanna (both laughing) Here's your bloody tadpole, chef. This is the whole tenderloin or filet as we'll know it in the UK. Very lean piece of meat. - What we do with the is quite unique. Places would take just get filets, everything else goes. For us we do full tenderloin utilization. - So we're gonna break down the tenderloin So we have the head which And then of course the tail we'll butter fly and use as our skirlie. And that's where you can see a bit of our British culture coming in. The skirlie is a Scottish hence the name comes from the sound of the oats and the fat hitting the pan. It makes that 'SKS' kind of sound. And that's what we'll get. Set it off for the cast iron. And we'll make a call on how many filets we can get out of that before it starts to cut into the chateau, in this case it's two. And then what you're left that's got three pieces to it. That's what makes a chateau, a chateau where you have the and then the two side muscles. And that'll go in our blackboard later. (upbeat music) - Our pastry program, I look Carla is a pro, an amazing team, an amazing variety of desserts. You know, people come It's really becoming a huge This is my, by far, my maybe the maple tart neck and neck. But... - Yeah, this is my favorite thing to quality control in the morning. Normally I'll be over here and she just kind of gives me the look, that's (upbeat music) - So we're making the chocolate 70% chocolate. - Carla is gonna be which is one of our signature desserts. It's inspired by her childhood the Ferrero Rocher candy that we do in the restaurant. (soft music) - It's very important that we try to do as thin as possible. It's gonna be pretty hard to cut into them if they're not thin. (soft music) This is definitely for me, one of the perfect chocolates to have in this time of the year, for sure, it always in my house, always. It's my guilty pleasure. - So it's 12:00 PM. We just finished butchery. The grills are lit and now for our daily steak test. So Paddy we'll take one piece We taste it, we talk and if anything doesn't make the cut, it doesn't make the menu. (upbeat music) - Quite a generous seasoning 'cause A, because we lose a little bit on the bars as they fall through but also the big heavy and enable us to get that caramelization. Flavor, it's texture and But we don't want bar marks. We want a nice even golden brown crust through out our steaks. Because the different steaks which will make for where and how long you need to cook them. So the heavier the fat, cause there's a bigger conductor of heat running through the meat. Whereas something like a filet, which has much, less We can see how good our by how quickly it's going up, so it looks like a lot of smoke. They help spread my - The main difference or cooking with charcoal is the fat is dripping onto the coal. It's creating that bit of smoke, which is kind of coming up and with a whole nother layer of flavor and I almost call it - You have to pay otherwise something can over-char or burn and that is just no good, We won't send it. - [Producer] How many do you reckon? - [Paddy] Since ever? - Millions, millions. I wouldn't be able to count as many. - [Matt] The importance and every steak is every cow is different. Especially once we put a lot of things can happen, there's a lot of variables. So we take one piece that comes in and test it. And it's a real indicator of what the rest of the and we can flag any issues. (upbeat music) - So let's start with this, this is our...it's not on the menu yet. It's the grass-fed, Crack on and try a bit. - This is the rib that we So this is a new cut from a new supplier. First time we've actually tasted it. 35 days in the box, really good and I think as more gets ready, we'll start to see it on the menu. - [Paddy] This is the boneless strip. - Great texture, amazing that's a winner. - Yeah. - [Matt] It's absolutely essential that we have the whole during the beef tasting. So it's not just my opinion And also to help develop Well, now he needs to than we did on camera. So if we do 250 cover 220 covers come off of that grill. - It's a two-person job. - Yep. - So now the meat's been prepped. We're gonna send it back get everything weighed up (soft music) - So now we're in our prep kitchen and this is kind of the where everything that before it gets sent upstairs for service. This is Nick, one of the So chef Nick here is for the service. so these are all the large So they all get individually weighed, packed up in peach paper and labeled with the then we know which ones to and I make sure that that they have picked. (soft music) So we're just gonna weigh out the chateaus for tonight service. Six will probably take us We'll most likely sell around a chateau like this coming into 31 ounces, because of no bone, it's about plenty for three. And then we have something This is a great steak for two or one very hungry person. Two reasons we weigh the steaks, one for kind of our with the marking off of the chalkboard and giving them that control of how much beef they want to consume. And for us, we can, you know, manage our cost down to the ounce. This is a count of all of that we're gonna sell by the ounce, that'll go on the blackboards. We have the different and then how many in each category we have available for each service. (soft music) The sides that we do at Hawksmoor are as important as the beef. We wanna have kind of a where you don't just come So here we have the This is another kind of The butter needs to be (soft music) How do they look chef? - Look okay actually, yeah. - So you could see that beautiful rise, that nice indent and then you have that nice Yeah so we bake roughly 300 Yorkies before the service every day. They go with the potted beef. So this is our potted beef, What we do with all of our trim, we confit them in beef fat and then that gets kind almost like a rillette. Served in a little jar onion gravy on the side. And just like another way that we try to be really sustainable and using everything that So this is a half an We go through about 1500 Bone marrow is in everything. It's in our burger, it's in our It's one of our favorite ingredients. The goal of that center cut is just really optimizing how much marrow Here you could just see it in there, by taking the center cut of the bone, you get that beautiful You could just slide it out like that. So this is day two of Last night, the prep team from the shafting you get all in the potato and that's what's and create the signature (upbeat music) So this is Mohamedou, Mo has been with us since day one, when we opened Hawksmoor and his primary mission every So many different variables but a real master of what he does. Are you tired of chips? - Nah, never tired of chips. Our triple cooked chips, take three days from start to finish. It's a labor of love but when you see the guest enjoying it, it's always worth it. Here we do the triple cooked chips but we also do a beef dripping fry. And we have a clientele and he's like, &quot;I just And that's exactly what it is, it's the original flavor (soft music) All right guys, three o'clock staff time. (soft music) Afternoon, guys. - All right Mikey, let's hear it. - We have 200 reservations - When the line staff arrives, we have a briefing talk about last night. What went well, what didn't? Menu changes anything like that and just kind of bring everyone together, before we start the day. (all clapping) - All right, so great service guys. - [Man] Yes chef. - So everyone's outside, I'm just boxing off what I'm working on. We cut all of the raw meat and fish as close to the surface as possible, starting to get to that race to the finish line. This production is beginning. We have a little over 70 This is the largest team We have a lot of legends and we're just really trying to build something special here. It's 4:45 on the dot. We're doing our sauce check every day. This is the last test, before one, two, three, four, Creamed spinach is a big one. - Yeah. tasting it through meat sauces, the view on the chicken. Both are really good. That one my favorite sauce. If you don't feel the anchovy, then you don't know you're eating, too much anchovy in it overpowers Small window of perfection. And then the chips. Crunchy, nice acid from the malt vinegar, great bunch of chips. A little bit more salt on the tartare. But everything else is great. Here you can see all our and then in the bottom, is Doors are open and the guests anytime. At 5:30 the curtain goes up, lights go down in the dining room and then it becomes all about the guest. As the day transitions into service, it becomes more of a conductor role. So we have a bar, we have private dining, which is huge and taking off. And then we have the restaurant. You know, we're kind on the past making sure that we are able to serve all (soft music) Beautiful porterhouse service plates. (soft music) So this is our cast iron steak, taken from the tail end of the filet, bone marrow squarely on top, beautiful chiffonade of a little bit of sea Tonight we have around 220 on the books, plus two private dining events booked and then a full bar. It's one of the beauties and standing in the dining room. Is that you get to feel as well as the full team, it's incredible. (soft music) So this is our bone-in rib chop, nice T-bone and a big (soft music) It's a beautiful rib chop, atlas carrots cooked This is two sides of Night's almost through, ribs are almost gone. Couple of big ones to sell. (jazz music) By the end of the service, you know, it can be quite exhausting but we're always quite 'cause it's just a huge accomplishment what we do here every day. I finished once the last check leaves, it's around 10, 11 o'clock at night, check out with the senior team and then off to my next job with my son. (soft music) - Chef, eleven open menus. - And we're all in for the evening. - All in, oui. Boys all in. - [Men] Yes chef. (soft music)