Thirty years have passed on the border between India and Tibet, but the message is just the same today. Nobody crosses. Friendship Bridge. This is the official checkpoint In the distance known as Zhangmu by the Chinese. On this side The Tibetans are only rarely Do you ever see Tibetan refugees Yes, but most of them don't come this way. They go through the high mountains. Exhausted, starving, and often injured, the refugees walk in desperation for weeks where they're looked after by the services Your name is Nima Lamo, and your parents However, there were over 30 other people Here's your card. She said it took 20 days Then from Solu-Khumbu, she was not able to walk at all and completely black with gangrene. When she came here, hanging loosely, and all infected. She was in a very, very pathetic stage. There were 22 children For seven days, we had no food at all. We ate snow. Some of the children Five of us died on the way or being buried beneath an avalanche. Thousands of people flee Tibet Over mountain passes 18,000 feet high, they trudge for weeks It is the same route we hope to take, going from Nepal Our starting point is Lukla, in the heart the Mount Everest region. While one of our crews we set out on foot to the threshold of the Snow Kingdom, the Nangpa La Pass, also called the Path of Sha Khumbu, which many Tibetans [Nepali spoken audio] We come from the village of Thame. It would take you six days The restricted area starts at this rock. From here, one path leads up while the other leads This strategic area being open at the very end On our way, we meet an old monk. He comes from Pangboche Monastery People do escape this way. They're looking for a better education. Most of them are children or monks. Monasteries provide them The old man also tells us He's expecting the arrival a child crossing with two adults. We're in luck over the extremely rough terrain You just show him the border, explain where it's dangerous, and then you can come back. Up there, you can see Then we'll turn left On the other side, there's Tibet. For a whole day, an icy monster dragging millions Hundreds of children without guides or equipment, This is the team leaving. They'll be camping somewhere else. The time has come to set up a base camp, Only five of us will reach the snow line Nangpa La awaits us Finally, we reach the border. Tibet starts here, If I were you, I wouldn't go any further. [Nepali spoken audio] The discussion doesn't last very long. Our guide refuses to take one step more, As for us, we head toward the unknown, At the very same moment in Lhasa, our second crew secretly starts filming of the Chinese occupation. Lhasa is the capital The Potala, still dominates the center of the city, but now, Seventy thousand troops turning the sacred city Thousands of settlers They're pure Chinese hands The whole Potala area &quot;It is ours.&quot; This is what they say. Over there, everything is brand new, Very few Tibetans Overall, including restaurants and shops, the population is made up Most of them are living in the Barkhor. The rest of Lhasa, all the nice neighborhoods is owned by the Chinese. The Barkhor is the old merchant quarter. Around the central Jokhang Temple, However, Mixing with the crowds, plainclothes agents They're everywhere, dressed as civilians. You won't find them. You'll only notice them Within a second, The only crime my sister committed One day, she went out to the Barkhor. She started to shout: She took a few steps, Prisoners are punished that is absolutely bare, It is no more than two feet wide. They are left there Their bodies waste away, these prisoners On the 1st of May 1998, Ten were shot in reprisal. Forty years ago, Since then, troops of the People's Liberation Army from one end to the other. As for religious activity, it is constantly being targeted They destroyed the monasteries. They destroyed the fortresses. Now they forbid us However, we still managed to keep some. Openly, we have to say but at the bottom of our hearts, we love our religion The 46,000 monks and nuns across the country have to withstand Many would love to enter a monastery, There are a lot of formalities. Above all, you have to strictly follow and bow to the Chinese government. For two years now, monks have had to endure just like the party members. The reinforcement was due to the Panchen Lama affair, in reference to the second great leader His reincarnation, a five-year-old child, and replaced by this one in the picture. In 1996, a great patriotic re-education campaign Its purpose was to end Schools were not spared That means studying hard Something like that. It is shown in two languages. The one at the top is in Tibetan, The Tibetan language after which it is considered They often have to study in Chinese, subjects such as geography They haven't yet translated In the meantime, the Buddha has been replaced Nightclubs provide Tibetan youngsters, with alcohol and techno music. This type of Western culture of integration. Also, with the full approval hundreds of prostitutes stand Numerous vendors of alcohol increasing the relentless degradation. Little by little, Tibet is dying. One thousand kilometers from Lhasa, Mount Kailash is the most sacred site According to legend, Tibetans used to come here Now, most visitors are pilgrims Of course, I keep His Holiness but I never went to see him The journey would be much too long. From under his jacket, the man gives a glimpse of the picture It would certainly be nice but I'm too old. I don't think I can go abroad I'm 59 years old, Father and son join other pilgrims Each has to complete walking three times They all know the Indian border just 100 kilometers due south. However, You cannot cross this way. It's too complicated. It's more in the Tingri area Back east in Tingri Here, Tibetans can take a first step The area is under heavy surveillance. Far ahead is Nepal, over the highest peaks on Earth. To the left Looking slightly westward, there's a breach in the mountain. Here starts the road to freedom. Do you have anything to pay Yes, you have to hire yaks. It's further up in that direction. It is here, in this mountainous gap that our team is hiding, looking out for a group of refugees. Our two Sherpas have just seen something. A man, a woman, and a child. The man explains a sacred child by someone close to the Dalai Lama. Ngawang is eight years old. He is the reincarnation called Dago Rinpoche, who had passed away Pema is his mother. With Norbu, his uncle, she is trying to get him [Tibetan spoken audio] It has been nine days since we left Lhasa. The Chinese don't respect us. They don't believe in our religion. Here, everything religious is controlled. Most of the great masters are to be found It's much better to be there. If he had stayed in Tibet, he might have kept his title of Tulku, but he would not have had the right If we manage to get over the pass, It is impossible If the Chinese learned he was a lama, The solution was to say nothing Everything will be all right later. I was not happy, but I had to stay I have many children, three who are younger than the lama The Chinese are so hard on us. Normally, we should be happy but they are really too hard. To escape, Others try to hide Yesterday, while crossing the river, we suddenly came across armed with machine guns. They tried to stop us from going through. I thought all was lost. If I had known, but we couldn't have known. Only two days ago, They questioned us. I didn't say we had come from Lhasa. I said we had come from Nepal who lived locally. They seemed satisfied. They asked for my identity papers, When we ran into the Chinese, Her whole body was shaking, I tried to calm her down, Above all, we had to hide the fact Otherwise, we could never have gotten out. [Tibetan spoken audio] It is 4:00 in the morning, The little group sets off again. Ngawang, carried by his mother, has no idea he is leaving the land nor does he know that he is passing Mount Cho Oyu. The going is hard even for the yaks. Ask him why it is so difficult to cross. We must not waste time, Why do we have to go before the sun? [Nepali spoken audio] It is absolutely necessary before the sun as it starts cracking everywhere then. Crevices appear and it becomes too dangerous to move. Indeed, the sun has been up for some time Over the crest lies the frontier. Pema and Ngawang stepping across one last crevice Come on, be nice. Try to stand up straight. You're over the border now, I'm really very happy. My mind is at ease now. [Tibetan spoken audio] We break for a short rest, just long enough We'll have no problems along the way. I'm cold, Mummy, my feet are very cold. We're in Nepal, and Ngawang is safe now. However, We're at high altitude, and the area is dangerous. Many miles of rocks lie ahead, and we still have to cross [Tibetan spoken audio] I don't think I'm afraid any longer. Anyway, we'll soon be at the monastery. Little by little, Does he even know he is a Tulku, a sacred reincarnation that makes him a being venerated as a saint? Do you want some tea? No, I don't want any tea. Iced water? You'll see how your lips Melted snow that I'll drink like this, right off the ground. I want my glasses. His mother and uncle knowing that soon, they will have to part. I want some meat. Yes, I will give you some. We'll leave soon. Here, eat this. When we are at the monastery, I won't have anything more to do I'll still try to continue Actually, my dream would be However, I would like to go to Dharamsala Anyway, I will have to go back to Tibet to look after my three youngest Later on, I will try to send so he can continue to study. It is impossible for me to send Anyhow, our country is not free. I have already made this journey once. It was two years ago aged 11 and 12. Rocked by the motion of the yak, It is time now This rocky quarry will do. The presence of water At dawn, Rinpoche Lama is still sleeping However, because one of the yaks has disappeared. He needs some help to find the yak. Where did you see it last? It was in the band there with the others. Maybe it went down the slope. Pema welcomes the break. For the first time, she can tell us how she learned I was asked many questions at that time about what I had dreamed my thoughts, and all my emotions. I answered that I had the feeling I asked four times and each time I was told the same thing, that my son was different, that he was a saint. After searching for an hour, There's just time See, there's enough now. Come on, that's enough. At last, we come across a group of nomads. They're the first people we have met Immediately they understand They bow for a blessing, offering scarves Ngawang is not used to such devotion, and this is just the beginning. [Tibetan spoken audio] Back once more at the hut we meet our shepherd again. He wants the family to spend the night The journey is almost over. In Thame, we have to find awaiting the lama's arrival days earlier. We tell him the good news. I was so worried. I've been waiting for a long time. They had left Lhasa long ago, I thought the Chinese had arrested them. He is a very important lama. Rinpoche, give me your blessing. Rinpoche, do you recognize me? The old monk will have a hard time who doesn't understand much We had a feeling you might be in danger, so that everything This man, will now be watching The child is a reincarnation Dego Rinpoche. There is a place in Tibet called Yendigo, He was a very simple and modest lama. He used to live like a beggar. He was never overbearing. In Tibet, we call that &quot;Abednego,&quot; which means a lama He was one of those. There is no doubt whatsoever that this child Firstly, because he was recognized who was one Trulshik was asked to find After several years of searching, At the same time in Dharamsala, those who had been close asked His Holiness the same question, and he replied that it was necessary which is exactly the same place. The child who was found and identified by testing his recognition will one day be enthroned. Ngawang Changchub Rizin Rinpoche, is henceforth the new lama of Solu-Khumbu. This is his predecessor Dego, whose character and qualities For a long time, I kept secret the fact I even asked my family Otherwise, the Chinese governor These last two years especially as I had sent and I was afraid someone would find out. Ngawang Rinpoche received a royal welcome, There will be no more From now on, his strict will be in the hands As for Pema, but she is happy he has been saved. She is already thinking like thousands of others, McLeod Ganj is Little Lhasa, Eight thousand people live here on the slopes of a hill the Dalai Lama. Strangely enough, His Holiness is today critical It is increasingly difficult and yet he honors the nonviolence practiced by the Tibetan people I express my appreciation For more than four decades, they mainly have maintained and they listen I always tell them The Tibetans who are inside Tibet or the owners of Tibet. This newcomer is a part of them. Today, His Holiness is inaugurating of the Tibetan Youth Congress. It's the political expression Many of its members are former refugees. [Tibetan spoken audio] On this aspect of Tibetans leaving Tibet, it is not in our interest politically that we depopulate our own country. However, from an individual how can we blame them? They have suffered so much. &quot;We'll continue to live here in freedom, Tibet's political future The Children's Village School provides them and this time in their own language. You make a sentence with these words. You first choose the easiest ones, Then you take the most difficult ones When this class was filmed we didn't know that the girl was Pema's younger daughter, Now put away your books, We stayed with Pema Here she is arriving in Dharamsala, Today, she will at last after two long years apart. Did you miss me? Mommy, do you want to come back tonight? Yes, but who will I ask for? Because tomorrow we have school. Who should I speak to, darling? I don't know, we have study tonight. It can be arranged. Naturally, the two girls do get permission On Saturday morning, a public audience Pema wouldn't miss it for anything. She has always wanted to receive This type of ceremony but this time, exceptionally, When we saw these pictures, when refugees meet an incarnation Pema was the most emotionally In fact, I am overcome with anxiety when I think of my three sons When they are safely out of Tibet, only then will I be fully at peace and content. Like his sisters, the little lama It will take years to teach him the wisdom whose monastery appears Safe from the Chinese, so far from Tibet.