- [Instructor] Hi, and welcome Today, we are going to that you may have in OneDrive. So we're going to go over for files that are and then some of the issues when you're running If you want to learn more about join our Academy Online course and access more than 1,000 so that you can advance your level and get the promotions, The link to join our Academy Online course is in the description. So let's go over some of the First of all, there's certain character that you are not allowed And by default, Windows will prevent you from having these characters but it's just something that I'm going to put those characters up on the screen here for you. Also, you don't want to start a file name or end a file name with a space. Next, consider the file location. You can't sync a mapped drive, so just keep that in mind. Let's look at the length of the file path. The entire file path should Now that's going to include with all of your subfolders in there. And while you're thinking make sure each of those subfolders is less than 255 characters. The file size for uploading and downloading files should And also, don't sync more And keep in mind that you can only sync to one OneDrive account. You can't sync to multiple If you're using the Basic OneDrive, keep in mind that you have And you may wanna consider upgrading to the one terabyte of space, because with that, you also So that's definitely If you have to pay for space, you might want to also get So that's a really good deal. Next, I would like to go that you might be having with OneDrive. The very first one I would like to cover is the mistake I actually Sometimes, I'll be looking in my OneDrive folder on my computer, and then I'll be looking and I will go, &quot;Why are Why are these files not in here?&quot; And then it takes me a minute or two, and then I realize, &quot;Oh, hey, and right now I'm logged So just remember, whatever to log onto your PC with is the one whose OneDrive you are looking at when you pull up the OneDrive So when you log into OneDrive online, make sure you are logging and not a secondary OneDrive account. So if I log out and then I log back in with now I can look on here and go, &quot;Oh, okay, there's all my files.&quot; So just remember, match your with the Microsoft account you're using when you log in on OneDrive. I'm going to go down And right now, you can see Everything looks fine, there's And if I open my OneDrive folder, I can see that I have all my cloud icons and my check marks that But let's just say I accidentally and I paused my syncing unbeknownst to me. And say, I'm online and and I know I just added a file, and I'm not sure why it is not syncing. It's always a good idea to look at your OneDrive icon down here. I can already tell that there's a problem because it's got a little So I'm going to click on that There's a big banner across the top. My files are not syncing Now you may have intentionally done that, you may have unintentionally done that. But just click this button right here, and all of your file syncing will resume. And you can tell when that banner is gone that your files should now So if you go online, you that you didn't see before. If you are liking this video, please give us a thumb up and hit the bell button to get notified when we release our weekly videos. The second issue that may arise is, what if you are not connected to WiFi? Or, sometimes on my keyboard, I accidentally hit airplane And unfortunately that message goes away, so I don't always know but I do start seeing the 'Cause let's say, I opened up my browser and then something went wrong, and then I can spend what's possibly gone wrong. If I open up my OneDrive, one way I know I will be is if I look here, you see the blue recycling That means that that file because it's not a cloud and it's not a circle So that's the first indication that I'm having some problems syncing. So if I go down here everything looks normal So, say, I start troubleshooting &quot;Oh, hey, look down here, How did I get in airplane mode?&quot; I could just click on it, give it a minute to know And look, my document now has a circle with a check mark in it so I know that my computer If you've gone through a few standard and you still don't know what's wrong and you have a file in here another fix you can try is just run the sync, make sure and then re-add the Sometimes that issue resolves itself. Another option you have is Usually you do that in the Control Panel. So I'm going to type And in my Control Panel I'll and I can select Microsoft Office. And up here I can just hit Change, and then I will be asked if I would like to do a quick repair. And you can just say Repair on that and run the Office Repair. Another option I have is to just run the latest Windows update. I can go down here on the search bar and just type in Windows Update Settings, and I can see that updates are available and hit the Download button and run those updates and see And finally, as we all know, if you've worked with Windows for a while, don't forget: reboot, reboot, reboot because rebooting sometimes So hopefully those are if you're having some If you have any questions, and hopefully we'll see If you want to learn more about join our Academy Online course and access more than 1,000 so that you can advance your level and get the promotions, The link to join our Academy Online course is in the description. - If you liked this video, And if you're really serious about a advancing your so you can stand out from the crowd and get the jobs, promotion, then click up here and join our