MOSFILM The ''Luch'' Artistic Association THE DIAMOND ARM A screen novel in two parts from the life of smugglers, Screenplay by M. SLOBODSKY Directed by Photographed in the air, on the earth, by Director of Photography Production Designer Music by A. ZATSEPIN Sound by Ye. INDLINA Lyrics by L. DERBENYOV English Subtitles by The Studio wishes to thank that had provided for the shooting real diamonds and gold. This film has been photographed THE DIAMOND ARM Starring Nina GREBESHKOVA Nonna MORDYUKOVA Anatoly PAPANOV Stanislav CHEKAN Also starring Ye. MELNIKOVA G. SHPIGEL, L. KANEVSKY And also... V. OSTROVSKAYA, S. KHOLINA N. TROFIMOV, A. YACHNITSKY Besides, A. KHVYLYA, G. SVETLANI I. VASSILENKO And with Sasha LISYUTINA And at last... With the participation of YURI NIKULIN Part One THE DIAMOND IS ALMOST INVISIBLE We bring you a live broadcast This snow-white liner carrying a large contingent on a very fascinating voyage. - Hello! What is your name, please? Semyon Semyonovich Gorbunkov. - And what's your occupation? Is there something you would like before leaving As a matter of fact, I was about to buy my wife The fur coat can wait. He works day and night... So you've never before... No. We never travelled farther Is it your first trip abroad, too? - I'm not going. Fish Street. That's an important Lyolik, I remember it all. Everything you do must look very ''Damned apple!'' Keep that in mind! The injury... As our chief says, ''The most important Happy landings, tourist! No, don't... - Good morning! - Is this Cabin 16? Are you bunking here, too? Yes. I'm Gennady Petrovich Kozodoyev. Semyon Semyonovich Gorbunkov. - I hope we'll become friends. - Are you bringing along souvenirs? - I have some here... MIKHAIL SVETLOV Day Seven I love the song Senya, it's not topical, ''Island of Bad Luck''! All covered with greenery, Lies in our itinerary There live the savages, Faces bear ravages, Whatever they're doing, They must be born to ruin Crocodiles not caught, They weep and pray to God They are no idlers, They ought to cancel Fridays But, alas, no calendar Every living islander But, alas, no calendar That's why poor savages, Counting their damages, The poor devils moan, What year is unknown, ...Finally, here is the last before returning Ladies and gentlemen, we're now During the rule of the great on these heights, a marvelous ensemble, which included a palace, a mosque, a 1 ,200-bed harem, Have you gone crazy? Something's wrong. Hey, no, no, impossible! - What does she want? Lady, Senora, Frau, Miss, Russo turista, capito, moralita! But what does she want? We are most grateful to you. It was Attention, please! You can walk around the town. But at five o'clock sharp, See you later. Guesha! Why are you leaving me I didn't leave you. I was waiting. Let's go this way. Where's he? Don't worry, - The password is ''Damned melon''? Are you sure he's on the SS We were assured that he was. The ship is leaving in an hour! Shut up! Sorry, I guess I Iost my temper. You know... Guesha! Excuse me, Miss... Damned melon! Damned melon! - Russo? - ''Mikhail Svetlov''? Damned melon. What's wrong with him? It's a very bad sprain. Let's get down to work. Damned melon!.. ''Mikhail Svetlov''... Damned melon! Damned melon! Russo? Why didn't you use your brains? But the other one gave the password There follows an untranslatable play with the use of local idiomatic Comrades, it's time! Those idiots claimed So the poor fool has no idea That's perfect! What's this? Nothing. Just contraband items Don't worry. I never touch the stuff. Haven't you read about it in ''House It will calm your nervous system Drink up. Captain, Nothing. But don't breathe a word to anyone And if someone wants to know Say you slipped, fell down You were knocked out, and when you I slipped, fell down, I was knocked out, And don't worry, Thank you very much. Don't you remember a thing? Be careful! - Why? I remember very well. I slipped... When I came to, I had this cast. - I wish I fell instead of you. Please, take care of your arm, Senya. Nadia is going to be upset. ''That's c'est la vie,'' I'm sorry, friend! Are you finished? Must I go already? Yes, move along, you're in the way. - You're through with me? Could it be that the Captain didn't There he is! The stuff is safe. And the key? To quote our chief's immortal words, - I don't get it. Hands off me! - Where are we going? So you had a look at some foreign Yes, foreign ports. Where should I go? This is the way home. I didn't give him my address. There's just one road here I want to go to Morskaya Street, entrance three, third floor. What's wrong with your arm? Why is he interested in my arm? I slipped, fell down, got knocked out, Excuse me, you're an amateur actor, Yes, that's right. Why did I Iie to him? He's trying to get information from Why did he turn there? The highway's blocked for repairs. - Stop! Let's give them a lift! He didn't pick up those girls. Why did you wait to tell him I wanted to check Did he prove it? He proved it, Colonel. I never dreamed that he'd... Hit you with the cast? Yes, sir! No sense in it. He agrees. No sense in it. - May I suggest... - Maybe you'll let me... This operation is your baby. Now go on with your report. Yes, sir. When we became better What do I do now? Nothing. Live as usual. They'll be watching you, As soon as they try to get the cast, Like I'm the live bait. They might offer to pay a ransom, I don't think so. They're convinced They'll want their goods back, without How can they take a plaster cast off I'm not sure how they'll try to do it, drug you or knock you out. It's no problem to do it on someone Who's dead? But I don't really think Couldn't you let someone else wear this plaster cast Well, you can always say no. No, I'm no coward, Afraid I won't be able to do it. Every man can do many things, but, sadly enough, That's right, it happens so often. Let's set up the liaison. Now what are you doing, How are we going to organize it? Come to my place. And when you must speak to us... I'll call a taxi and give my name. Then I'll come, or maybe my assistant. Thanks very, very much. Forget it, we've seen much worse. Won't you come up We've already agreed, - Not even Nadia? I understand. Semyon Semyonovich! Senya, the door. Welcome back, Semyon Semyonovich! Sorry that I'm so late. But my social work comes first. What's wrong with your arm? On Wednesday you're giving a lecture. We've put up the posters. You're the only one from our The subject is I haven't been to New York, ''Istanbul, City of Contrasts''. But what about your arm? A closed fracture. I was knocked out. So unpretentious, but in good taste. That's really nice! Oh yes, so what's it about your arm? That's for you. A souvenir. Thank you, Semyon Semyonovich! Just press the button. - Isn't it funny? Thanks. Did you see Sophia Loren? Did you drink Coca-Cola? How does it taste? Go to sleep. Doctors recommend it. I read it Tell me exactly I slipped, I fell down, I knocked myself out, I heard all that already. Please tell me I walked in the street and I slipped... You never knew how to lie, did you? I know what happened. Who told you? I'm sure it's not a closed fracture. What have you got there? Gold and diamonds. Stop kidding! You haven't got a closed fracture. Let's go to bed now. You should be killed for that! Please don't beat me! I want to see you dead! I want to see you in your grave, I want to see you living only Victor, can't you read? ''Dogs walking not allowed!'' Mommy, look! Oh, get down from there! Our lawns aren't made to walk on! - Then what are they made for? Then where can I walk him? You can walk him in your flat! What is this? I've been to London. Dog is man's best friend. It may be in London but here, man's best friend Treasure handed to government Old man! Have you got a light? - What? You deaf and dumb? I thought so... There he is! He's an idiot. There's no problem. Invite him to go fishing Like we agreed. Only do things right. Like give flowers to his old lady, If only you can remember all that, You lamebrain! The ice-cream's Oh, my eye? It's nothing, Senya, how's your arm? Can you move your fingers? Good, you'll be okay. You're his friend. He doesn't take his arm seriously. You know what's wrong with daddy's And what is it? He's got a compound fracture, Now go to your mama. Senya, let's go trout fishing with me. To the Black Stones. We'll rent No, not for the night. - Let's go in the morning. - So, at the crack of dawn then? What are you doing?! Put down the gun Such a charming child! Our fashions were created by designer Margarita Semyonova, architect Rogal Levitskaya, chief designer Here is our summer combination which earned a prize of encouragement at the regional modern garment forum The original feature of this model being that you can very easily But that's not all! With just a twist of your wrist, your trousers are changed... your trousers are changed... the trousers are changed... to elegantly looking shorts. You will forgive us the delay And finally, we present our latest a beach ensemble ''Mini-bikini-69''. Why is the chief here? The plan's been changed. You'll pull - Why? They don't bite at White Rock! They'll bite so well that our customer Is all the rest according to the plan? Everything's the same otherwise. You know, that's not artistic. But it's cheap and very practical. Chip off the plaster and we split. What about my alibi? Try and get marks of violence But I'm begging you to... Don't you worry, Kozlodoyev. Kozodoyev! Kozlodoyev! I'll bash you real carefully, Good evening. Where are you going so late at night? I'm going fishing early in the morning, There's one open Poor guy! To think that it should've been me. Get drunk and it'll be you. Let's load him on. Good evening, Semyon Semyonovich! But I don't know you. - Call me Volodya. I bring you greetings from He wants to see you urgently. - When? Then I'll be late to buy bread. Don't worry, I've got my car. Well, thanks very much, Volodya. I wish you a good fishing trip. You're sure you'll be going Yes. Good night then! Our tenants don't go to the baker's I guess this is it. We shouldn't have come here. They're going to bite so well here Help! Help me! SOS! Lyolik! Idiot! Mama! I'm going to die! Lyolik! Help! Mama! - Why are you yelling like that? Let's pray to our Lord... Get out of my way, milksop! There go ducks flying... As well as two geese... The chief's giving us a big chance The place for this new operation will be a restaurant called Straight north of the building, there're toilettes of a john kind... which are designated on the map The path leading to the toilettes where I will be. That'll be our stationing. Your mission is to invite the customer then bring him to the right condition After you show him the way, you immediately regain You've got an alibi while our customer, passing by the Everything that follows is just But how am I going to bring him to To quote our chief, you'll see teetotalers drink, With just a salary to live on, Give me a hundred tickets. If you buy them, just imagine, A fire engine! Stop your advertising. I'm not buying Peddle these tickets If they won't buy, Is everything perfectly clear? Hang around all the markets, and the free exchange stores. Let people see you as much as you can. Here, for your expenses. No, no, I wouldn't think of it! Please, no initiative. In the new denomination? - Something wrong with your head? - Come on, Semyon Semyonovich... And take this. What's that for? You can never tell. I haven't had it in my hands It's not a real gun, You can use it to scare someone. Can't I have a real one? - No, you'd better not. Semyon Semyonovich, That's how it should be. The Weeping Willow Tree Restaurant Fedya, we'd like to have also... No problem. - What are we going to drink? A bottle of vodka and a bottle of Oh, I forgot to call my mother. Good evening! I hope you have some? Lyolik, I'm waiting. Soon our customer will be ripe. I saw the chief. He's here. - Is this one taken? That's it. Here we go again. Keep calm. Excuse me, where's the telephone? Thanks. This is Semyon Semyonovich Gorbunkov. Please send a taxi to the Weeping It's urgent. Well, shall we start? No, no, I've got my beer. He's watching me. - Here's to your bonus. After the first drink, one never eats. Let's drink some vodka to your health! All right. Have a chaser. I'll bet that if anyone of you you would have done exactly What are you going to do For the money that the state on my friends' advice, I'm going to buy a Moskvitch car. The very latest model! One second. The customer is nearly ripe. I'm always ready! - What do you want? - Don't you recognize me? - Let's have a drink. I didn't recognize you right away Why did you shave your mustache? I said, why did you shave off Whose mustache? - To whom have I the honor? Why did Volodya shave his mustache? Senya, hurry up and tell the comrade We've got very little time. Sorry, I'm mistaken. If you'd had a mustache, you'd be - At what time does your plane leave? If you get a chance to go to Siberia... If you get a chance to go to Siberia, Why don't you better come to see us? See you around. I'm glad he's not the smuggler. Why did I drink all that stuff? Senya, are you in the right condition? - What condition? No! - In that case, one more drink... You must! Senya, do you respect me? I do, but I'm through. - Then I'm going to bite you. Guesha, people are staring. - Will you drink with the duck? - Fedya, the duck! - Is that a duck? They don't drink vodka with duck. We must drink... I get you. Fedya, champagne! - Here's to you. Perhaps you wish to wash up a bit? You heard what he said? - And the duck? Behave yourself... Hurry up! Straight north of the place, Now what? Senya! Song about the hares! In the heart of the woods Where leaves twirl in flight, Where age-old oaks Hares mowed the grass And they sang a strange song We couldn't care less, Though owls and wolves We've got a job to do At this hour of voodoo, We're mowing the grass, And the wizardly oaks By the stench-soaked bogs, Hares mow their grass, And out of fright We couldn't care less, Though owls and wolves We've got a job to do We're mowing the grass, We couldn't care less, We firmly believe That bold'll be the one Who thrice this has done: At the hour of voodoo Mowed magic grass. We couldn't care less, Bolder we'll be We'll hold out once, And no evil thing We couldn't care less, Bolder we'll be We'll hold out once, And no evil thing Something has to be done. We won't put up with drunkenness! But you know very well, I know a lot more than you do, He was invited by a friend According to police records, he paid ninety seven rubles Where did he get that kind of money? Your husband has changed The corruptive Western influence. Those idiotic toys. And the thing he said about dogs. It's odd, All those elements of ''la dolce vita''! I wouldn't be surprised to hear that your husband's secretly What?! - Is this yours? - And where did you get it? That cruise, huh? He's been enrolled in a spy ring! How could he do that? He's so naive. His arm... They tortured him! Oh, my God! We couldn't care less... What am I going to do? Such a disgrace! There's only one way out. Just one way out... Just one. Enough! Only aristocrats and degenerates We're going to see the chief I can't go in my condition. I need to take a bath at least, and a cup of coffee. You'll get your bath all right there, Even some cocoa with tea! Let's go, Guesha. Nadia! Nadia, honey! Senya, calm down. There's a way out. You must go to the police - About what? SHAME ON THE DRUNKARD AND How could you possibly imagine that? You, my wife, Oh no! Not that! How else could I possibly explain it? You could imagine anything, Oh, this is the end! Where did you get that gun Shut up, you wretched soul! Senya, tell me, where did you get I beg you, please tell me! All right, I will tell you. I swear. It's a state secret. That money and that gun were given me - What mission? When the time comes, You might even... get a reward... After I'm gone! That's a marvelous plan, chief! At twelve o'clock it will be ready A genius! Good morning. - Good morning. I'm enchanted to welcome you Salut, wonder boy! The chief sent me. Everything is ready. - The papers? - Which joint? A nice double room, all prepaid. - The guy? The fee? An advance, for starters. One pill will be enough. Excuse me, haven't you got the same No, sorry, we haven't. Well, I'll look around. Haven't you got something like this, No, sorry, we haven't any. Well, I'll have a look around. - Who, me? Excuse me. I've got what you're looking for, Only it's in my suitcase at the hotel. - Do you need it badly? Then I'll give you my address. Hotel Atlantic. Will nine o'clock be convenient All right then. Here you are. I'll be looking forward Nine sharp. Hotel Atlantic. I have a gut feeling What does she look like? I see. Keep on your toes. I expect a better I don't drink at all. By the way, how is he I don't know, he didn't phone. All right, go to the hotel There might be accomplices there, Is your gun with you? The psychic one. We'll hear your signal. Chanel, number five. I'll be seeing you! Where are you going? - Be careful! I'll be back soon. Hotel Atlantic - The customer's here. Hello, Five? He just went in. Roger. Out. Hotel Atlantic. Room 327. Come in! At last! Good evening. What are you up to? What's the matter? My cuff link. It rolled under there. Here, it came off. You nearly frightened me to death. Let me help you. I thought something had really gone See, my heart's thumping like crazy. Feel it. Feel it. I feel it. As soon as he's asleep, What if he leaves? - Could you leave a girl like that? There is no husband who has not longed to be a bachelor Look out for the signal! How about that gown? A friend's going to bring it - Do you mind waiting? In the meantime, would you like I'd rather have... beer. I only have wine. Here's to our chance encounter. Come on, drink! What's keeping your friend? Who cares about her anyway? My gown is as good as hers. Let me show you. It's not my fault, I swear! He came here on his own! I saw your special mission. After such a monstrous lie, I'm sure the children will understand I'll take care of the divorce Good morning. I've got to leave right now Right! But not now. Tomorrow we'll send you a taxi. But why not today? Today we'll need your help. We want you The one you took a fishing trip with. Ah, Gennady Petrovich... You'll see him that at eight o'clock tomorrow, And, most importantly, that the cast's coming off your arm - Is it Guesha? Then why haven't you... We didn't want to scare off ANNOUNCING COMRADELY TRIAL OF THE DEBAUCHER AND - You sing beautifully! Have you known citizen Gorbunkov Yes, ten years, sorry to say. So for ten years he hit the bottle, For ten years he has very cleverly as a decent person. Don't you think we must always I don't think except in the most extreme cases. - That's really your opinion? Listen... who are you anyway? I work with him. I see. Booze partner. You get out of here! As you say among yourselves, All right, butjust one question. Don't worry, lush, Now take it off, please. Chief, we're done for. The cast is going to be removed, I'll kill him!.. Where are you going To see my family at Dubrovka. Did you call for a taxi Yes, I did. Get in. - Goodbye. Why didn't Mikhail Ivanovich And Volodya? Are they busy? - What is your rank? Are you like Volodya, A lieutenant... First Lieutenant... May I, to impress my wife, Comrade First Lieutenant? - Is it all right if I do? And please be sure to tell her that you put me on a special mission And for her not to get worried, about smugglers, Keep quiet? It can't be done. I have to consult about it - With Mikhail Ivanovich? Give him my best regards. Hello? Chief? It's me... Chief, this is me, Lyolik! He took off for Dubrovka In a taxi. It was a beige ''Volga''. Roger. I got it. Guesha is nineteen kilometers out. To hell with him anyhow. Roger. We're going by a new operational keeping a low profile. Mikhail Ivanovich sends his regards. Everything's going to be all right, Your old lady will get you fit as Mikhail Ivanovich has ordered - You've caught him? - And who is it? Why go back to your place? We've got a spot by the road To quote our dear chief... you've got to strike the iron We're going to reduce it to shreds Could you please take inventory Sure, we're going to do it all legal, with receipts and everything. Our operation will take at most Soften down the plaster Lots of work. Gee, you've got everything it takes, We've got to scarper. The chiefjust gave me the order So we move out of here. Your mustache... one side has come off. Thanks. Hands up! Copter Seven, what do you see All I see is a milk truck going towards town. No sign of any taxi. End of Part One MOSFILM THE DIAMOND ARM A screen novel in two parts with prologue and epilogue. Synopsis of Part One. Part Two THE BONY LEG No beige taxi Will you inspect Quadrangle 45! Stop! Stop! Wait! - Could you take me to town please? It's a top secret affair of State! - All right, climb in. I'm just learning to drive, We're short of time! Time is money. We must strike the iron Hands up! Both of you! Or this thing They did it all for nothing. There're not? Who ever told you That man with the false mustache The police took them long ago, chief. Hey, hold it! Stop, you morons! To quote an old friend of mine ''I knew too much.'' Seven calling Five and reporting that a cherry-colored ''Moskvitch'' on the forest road speeding toward Seven, listen to my orders! Mama! Lyolik, stop it! Easy, Kozlodoyev, there'll be room NINA GREBESHKOVA STANISLAV CHEKAN VLADIMIR GULYAEV ANDREI MIRONOV ANATOLY PAPANOV SVETLANA SVETLICHNAYA NONNA MORDYUKOVA YURI NIKULIN The End