The moment has finally come Today we're gonna take this and tangled wires in a cheap IKEA cupboard... And transform it into this beautiful server rack. It will take less space, be much neater, and the best part - it won't break the Server equipment is still pretty So join me on this rollercoaster of emotions, during which I do as many things No, seriously, if you're a system integrator, a sysadmin or something of that It will hurt. So last year, I built my ultimate It's based on the Asrock C236 WSI It currently has 4 hard drives in it, 2 SATA SSDs With 10 gig networking I can comfortably edit 4K ProRes footage off of it and it helps However, as my home network grew, managing it in For instance, I had three network cables machine only - that's a lot of Plus, the case that I used for my NAS was Even though it can theoretically fit as many as it isn't really made for NAS use - for instance, replacing or adding new So I started looking for a rackmount I know that I mentioned that I don't they're loud - and I was wrong. As you'll see in this video - rack So I decided that I want a 3U And I found out pretty quickly that Since I live in a small city, I also couldn't I almost gave up on the idea, until for this Supermicro SC833 enclosure. For $119 dollars, it came with one internal 3.5 inch bay and a power supply. The only caveat is that it didn't come with With the main part of my homelab taken So during my extensive research, I found this Samson 12 unit I looked at the price, said "Hm, i guess i What I didn't take into account is that and most server enclosures, including the After some further search I came At EUR277 it was two times more but it's built like a tank and has adjustable The reason I went with an open rack design is because full-blown rack closets This one for example, is Both of those closets are 80cm deep, and in general, an open rack would and provide better airflow for the components. Building the rack was kind of like It came with pretty easy instructions and This is what the end result looks like, and with First I had to prepare the enclosure itself. It arrived in a pretty good condition, and still had all the original parts - So that had to be fixed. There's nothing wrong with the stock fans However, you have to keep in mind that those where the most important airflow and ensuring that the components Same goes for the power supply. I'm sure that there's going to be a absolutely furious at me power supply - the pinnacle of and replacing it with a measly Corsair SF450. But, once again, the power supply that and only had a 80 Plus Gold rating - whereas the fan in my Corsair SF450 And the power supply has an 80 Platinum rating, I won't be using this server will be standing right next to my desk. And because of that, low noise and power So out went the fans, the power Then it was time to take the Not much to say here, this case but I pretty much know it I connected the SATA cables to the backplane, as well as my PCIe devices - the 10 I'm using this PCIe bifurcating riser, which x8 and x4, and also gives you For the fans, I used three Noctua NF-A12x25 fans. There were no mounting holes for 120mm fans in so I used the only proper way to fix Zipties. Don't say I didn't warn you After mounting the third fan I realized that it won't spin freely - because of this And there we go! All three fans are Once again, I would not do any of this if you're serious, mission critical application, The reason why I went with this janky is because my server rack will and I'm using it at home, not in a data center. Even when picking the components, I had made low heat and low power consumption hardware, and don't worry, and I did a lot of testing and monitoring afterwards to make sure Finally, shout out to this ridiculous I didn't have any male to female jumper and used a multimeter and this scheme that I One thing that definitely got makeover it deserved were the hard drives. I initially started off with and ran mergerfs/snapraid But this time, I wanted to do everything So I reached out to Western Digital, 4 of their 8 terabyte Western Those drives are CMR so they'll and I'm actually thinking about switching So thank you Western Digital for sponsoring Unfortunately I didn't manage actually putting the stuff in the rack, So I'm going to show you what it looks like now, and walk you through all of the First off, I got this nice wooden top from a to kind of hide my poor cable management. And as an added bonus, I can also put stuff on it! So the power strip is probably There are a lot of rack mountable patch Mostly because it had the power plugs on the rear. I installed it at the top of the The only annoying thing is that European and a lot of devices have massive power bricks. Because of that, one power three ports, including the two that I'm definitely going to invest into an But for now this power strip has Next, the patch panel. I needed some way to manage all of those network cables for devices that don't have like my NAS or the Seeed CM4 router board. So I got this 16 port patch panel from DeLock. I didn't actually know that you needed a special And just used a flathead Don't do it though, just buy the tool. Or They're usually on a pricier Next up, the switch. I was using a Miktotik 4-port SFP+ switch But since I wanted untagged VLANs, I I decided to go with this Mikrotik CRS326 switch. It is passively cooled, has 24 and consumes around 5 watts at The SwOS web interface is also super Can't say the same about RouterOS unfortunately Some people might wonder why I didn't go but an equivalent 24-port rackmount switch Since the patch panel and the I wanted to make some short custom cables I... didn't really have any luck with that. None of the cables that I made worked, and the cable tester also reported So I gave up and bought a pack of these super and they've been working great. Next we got this short 1U shelf This is the Seeed CM4 RouterBoard Internal reverse Proxy, Grafana and Prometheus. And this is a regular Raspberry Next up, we got my main router - Fujitsu S920. I've made a video about it which corner - it's an amazing and It consumes very little power and It's about as powerful as the Raspberry Pi 4, but unlike Raspberry Pi 4, it's cheaper and has a PCIe x4 slot. So it's also a good and other self-hosted applications. Below the router and the Pis, It's basically just my ISP router. Next, we've got 2U of just empty space... And below that is my main server Now the main server is the so I've put it at the bottom of the rack. I've made a mistake of buying a and don't get me wrong, they do a decent but getting the server out of the This is because the enclosure lid is and the rails are actually So in order to take it out, I pretty much and then take the whole thing out. I'm definitely going to invest into that enclosure at some point in the future. So there you have it! This is my "virginity and I've been pretty happy with it so far. It's definitely easier to work and even though it's bigger in And since I live in a bigger apartment now I'm okay with it.