Hello everyone, I am Xiaoji. Welcome to subscribe to my channel. Some people say that the morning market is the soul of a city. It is the closest to life. Places If Zhengding Street, Dazhong Alley and even Nanguan Street are all for showing Lanzhou food to outsiders, then Wuquan Market is the most authentic representation of Lanzhou people's own lifestyle. Various rice, noodles, melons and fruits are steamed, stir-fried and fried in the narrow lanes every day. When there are so many people, they are almost shoulder to shoulder. Everything is shrouded in the bright sunshine in the early morning, full of charming market atmosphere and fireworks. Lanzhou people cannot do without milk every day. It is the carrier of delicious food , milk, egg, glutinous rice and old rice. Yogurt is a delicious snack that Lanzhou people have grown up with. This family has been selling milk nearby for 30 years and has a good reputation. The daily business hours are only three and a half hours in the morning. Old people will come here early in the morning with drink bottles. When buying milk, the daily price of milk is RMB 3 per pound. Most of the regular customers buy milk coupons in advance to get better discounts. Such drinks have a large mouth and are convenient for canning. At the same time, they can also hold a little more of the oily aroma of Muslims. They are small and exquisite, different from the big oil cakes made by the Han people. The crispy and fragrant taste of freshly baked oil is unforgettable. The Quran says: &quot;Enjoying sweets is a sign of faith.&quot; Sweet pudding is also recorded in the oldest existing Arabic cookery book, the Book of Dishes. Most of the food brought from Central Asia is a mixture of sugar and oil with explosive calories. As early as the Tang Dynasty , Islam was introduced through the Silk Road. Since then, the eating habits of Muslims have quietly shaped the city for thousands of years. 2 yuan and 5 each. The flavor of Sanzi is a fried food shared by the Hui-Han people in Lanzhou. It is a snack used by Muslim friends to entertain guests and give as gifts to relatives and friends on festival days. In ancient times, it was called &quot;ring cake&quot; or &quot;cold utensils.&quot; &quot;The two kinds of crispy dumplings are strips or slices, while the pan dumplings are like long noodles with no head or tail visible. They are plated together and fried in a pot with long wooden chopsticks. No matter which kind of dumplings are eaten, they are delicious. It is salty, sweet, crispy , not greasy, and exudes a special fragrance. It can be eaten as a pre-dinner snack or as a main meal. Qinghai specialty steamed bun shop. I can't help but smell it every time I pass by at the intersection of Shangwuquanshan morning market. It's a happy thing to live in the Northwest. There are so many delicious foods. I remember I once saw a video where someone came here to buy steamed buns and shipped them by air to other places. The shipping cost was more expensive than the steamed buns. It is said that the rose cake and bitter bean cake in this restaurant are good and bitter. The special aroma of the beans is refreshing and refreshing. The ones fresh out of the pot are especially delicious. The mille-feuille rose buns are very soft, mellow and moist , and have a lot of rose sauce. The sesame roasting pot is also good, with a strong sesame aroma. Today we will enter the kitchen together. Take a look at how to make sweet fermented rice wine. You can see it in the streets and alleys of Lanzhou. It is similar to low-alcohol rice wine. It is steamed with oats and then brewed with koji. It tastes mellow and sweet , whether it is winter or summer. Eating sweet eggs is a kind of enjoyment. The refreshing feeling can only be described in Lanzhou terms. Make tea. Sometimes you can eat it raw. You can also make tea and eat This restaurant also has apricot peel tea, dried apricots, Zhongning wolfberries , and the necessary ingredients for making San Paotai. The raw materials something like this. This apricot skin is 20 yuan, okay. This are also made by people from Shaanxi, a major pasta province. Guokui has also been integrated into the local diet. This is 10 yuan and half 5 yuan. This is delicious. This one costs 10 and a half. Try it. 5. Try it. Is there no gluten In addition to eating a bowl of beef noodles with fresh meat and soup for breakfast, Lanzhou people usually make various noodles at home, such as slurry noodles, sauerkraut noodles, and so on. Although noodles, firecracker noodles, mochi, etc. are all noodles , the production process and the addition of different ingredients will change the flavor . Basically, these noodles are all in this shop. You can buy in the glutinous rice noodles soba noodles, buckwheat noodles, and jelly. These special ingredients and processed foods are sold in specialized stores. You can buy them according to your daily needs. The store also comes with a prepared sauce when you take it home. Just add shredded cucumber or bean sprouts according to your own taste , stir it up , and it will be served immediately. ? I put three pounds for you. 10 dollars, 1 and a half, 5 dollars . Take two. In the market, there are pork shops suitable for Han people and beef and mutton shops suitable for Hui people. The meat is so fresh that even wasps would fly in to eat it. Come on, come on. It's delicious. It's not expensive. It tastes delicious. Forty. Five, fifty, sixty, The Lanzhou lily is as white as jade and has thick, sweet flesh . It is said to be &quot;the best vegetable and medicine&quot; and even &quot;Lanzhou lily is the best in the world&quot;. It is well-known for cooking porridge, soup, stewing, stir-frying, dry steaming, frying and other ways of eating it . It can be eaten raw , stir-fried and porridge. It is said to have the effect of moisturizing the lungs . The price of fresh lily varies depending on the size . The better they are, the more expensive they are. The eldest sister bought the large lily at 60 per pound and sent it directly to a friend in the south. The store usually sorts them one by one to make sure they look good. wiped clean, selling freshly dug figs, freshly dug The appearance of the seed melon looks like a watermelon. They are exactly the same, but they are low-sugar melons . They are different from watermelons. The melon seeds are yellow in color and are larger in size than watermelons. The texture on the body is also slightly lighter. The seed melons come on the market after autumn every year and are very popular among locals. Longnan is the best place for walnuts in the Qinba Mountains. One of the wetlands is a national geographical indication protected product. When the autumn wind comes , the locals will pick the freshly ripe walnuts and transport them to the market as soon as possible . The green skin of the walnuts is removed. The fresh walnuts are large and thin in skin. The walnut kernels are light yellow, plump , plump, odorless and silent. The color is as sweet and delicious as fruits. figs, fresh and delicious figs. The huge purple-red figs are so attractive. The ripe figs are red in color and have a sweet taste. The plump flesh is fragrant and sweet. It is full of sweetness and is so healing. The fruits here are so healing. Bar pears are really cheap. They only cost 5 yuan a pound. These bar pears are fragrant and sweet like bananas and pears, but are very easy to bump. The white pink peach is the &quot;star fruit&quot; of Anning District in Lanzhou and the golden signature of Lanzhou Xiantao . The white pink peach is held in August every year. A large number of peaches are available on the market. The skin is thin, easy to peel , juicy and sweet. Lanzhou white melon is also called Lanzhou honeydew . When cut, the flesh is green and thick, juicy, crisp and tender, and fragrant. After walking around the market for a long time, it was already close to noon when I came out. The Lanzhou Ramen for breakfast was already deserted. I just didn't have to queue up to try this restaurant. The layout of the restaurant is very traditional and it is an old store that has been open for more than ten years. The noodles can be enlarged for free and the side dishes are also cheaper . The big blue and white porcelain bowl filled with side dishes costs RMB 1.00 a serving, which gives people a very appetizing feeling. The spicy oil is particularly fragrant and not very spicy . The beef noodle soup is delicious, mellow and especially authentic. After eating the noodles, I saw an interesting milk tea shop. Lanzhou people drank sweet eggs. There is a very special formula , that is, the &quot;Fangha&quot; sweet egg milk tea that is sold all over the streets and alleys. &quot;Fangha&quot; in the northwest dialect means to put it down and look away. The hot milk tea is sweet and mellow, with a long and long aftertaste, and the taste buds are bursting with happiness.