- (laughing) Welcome, my friends, to the PlayStation 5 Professional Edition. So this, I'm very because not only are we going to unbox it, but we're also going to the Xbox Series X and we may, just maybe tear it - [Ken] Tear apart the box first 'cause I'm a little skeptical. - What do you mean you're (box rattling) So upfront, they're very as a disc free console, which is exactly what I want when I spend $700 on a Two terabyte, which is an improvement over the existing PS5. Seems pretty straightforward. Let's see here. God, that sounds so bad, dude. (box rattling) If there's a rock in here, Inside we have, there we go. Okay. So we have ourselves a regular we also have a USB-C cable, wow, great packaging, it's and we do have a DualSense, which unfortunately t his this is just the regular DualSense. Oh, that's why it's rattling. Here's our stand. The PS5 Pro Stand, much like the PS5 Slim, it's just two little piece of plastic that cost like 1 cent each. Oh, okay. Oh, it's a tall boy. So it looks very similar to the PS5 Slim, but it is significantly taller. It's actually, like, Oh, it's sharp too. What the hell? - Whoa! - You can actually cut yourself it. Like, if you're not - And I will tell you these little vents on the Yes, my friends, don't I am in fact reading a manual. - They specifically call out the fact that it's got an 8 core Zen 2 CPU and a 16.7 teraflop GPU. That puts it at what? 55, 60% more graphics One of the only things I've noticed that's different on the PS5 Pro so far, is if you go into the there's a new 8K output mode. So I don't have an 8K TV to test with, but theoretically you can enable that. Some games will support 8K. It's kind of a small number right now, but that's technically an option. What I think is a little more interesting is enhancing image quality for PS4 games. So the TL;DR here is that when you're running on a PS5, the PS5 slows itself down to run at the same sort of spec as a PS4, so you get the same performance, but with the PS5 Pro, you let it run at full beans you may or may not get a unlocked frame rate, that kind of thing. You can just hear that fan cranking and I'm just in the menu right now. I will mention that I am recording this before the official on which means that a lot of games are getting patches for the PS5 Pro, but they're coming out in sort of a little bit of a staggered timeline. Like, for example, &quot;Gran Turismo 7,&quot; that patch doesn't come out for, what was it? Like two months or something? They update every end of month. - So with &quot;Black Ops 6,&quot; I've run all three consoles I've done that consistently - [Ken] If anything, representative of what you can - That's exactly right. While &quot;Black Ops 6&quot; will get a patch to support PS5 Pro soon, this right now is an example to see where we're at power number wise and just general performance. So this will be the point where we're gonna do our power testing. So while we're standing on this ridge, we're getting 217, 220, 216. - [Alex] Wait, that's lower. - That's lower than the PS5 Slim. Let's go ahead and move over to a game that actually is optimized, Now would be a great time to remind you to please subscribe to the channel for high quality content such as Austin sitting in front of a Kill-A-Watt - [Ken] You can only see your mouth. - So I'm curious, &quot;F1&quot; does for the PS5 Pros, it's already optimized. Quality setting, shows and ray tracing at 60 and then you can also go to performance, which goes to 120 hertz, but I don't think has any, during the normal gameplay. By looking at the, ooo, oh, I can immediately see - [Ken] I know you're of consistency on your test, but I was playing this and with the rain it was so good. - So for context, the Xbox Series X in that test did 183 watts, the PS5 Slim, 230 and the PS5 Pro, 246. So it definitely takes more power, but actually a surprisingly All right, let me go ahead Let's go ahead and do a little sound test, so everyone stop talking, mostly me. Okay, I think we'll call So, again, if I compare it's a lot louder. So, I mean, we're not but the Series X, we got 37 dB in &quot;F1.&quot; I will mention that the PS5 Slim though, that fan was actually kind of ramping up and down as we went. So 38 was one of the lower numbers. It did kind of go up to the 40s but it was just kind This fan though, we got 42, so it is louder than the PS5. I can almost believe that this is gonna be the exact same setup or a very similar setup 'cause this is not that much bigger, it's not pulling that much more power. Looking at four to five dB louder than a regular PS5 or a Series X. So it's not exactly great. Let's do a little thermal test, shall we? Ken, will you be so kind - Rip some laps? So I'm gonna say it's on the exhaust, which is pretty close to what we're getting on as well as Series X, which is also 48. So initial thoughts, it about the same temperature on the exhaust and we're only talking an extra, what, 16 watts of power over That's not a big difference. Now I'm gonna try to take the panels off without scratching it. I've torn a lot of PS5s apart and I always scratch them (plastic clicking) Yeah, there you go. - It still doesn't feel good. I've done it a lot of times, So under this part we but we also have our SSD, which I'm gonna just pop open to see. Okay, yep, so exactly as well as the Slim, and one single panel that sort of keeps you away from the SSD. (plastic clicking) All right, this is of course but if you purchase the disc drive, it should theoretically and then this is a disc drive I just pulled off our and then this should You can get a quick look at with the disc drive. Wow, that's ugly. Wow, I kind of see why they - [Ken] That is also also very rude. - So I'm just gonna try, can I put on a regular PS5 faceplate? I don't think this is supposed to work, but it looks like it's not far off. Not by a lot, but it is slightly bigger. So basically if you wanna buy you're gonna have to get because the bottom one works but the top is ever so slightly bigger. The only other thing I'm seeing here is that there's an additional screw, which I think is where the So on the PS5, both the Slim if you wanna get to you have to tear the entire console apart. There you go. So you can easily get at the battery. This is important because this battery is what's going to run things So it will be good for a long time, but eventually it will die gonna get all kinds of grumpy. The clock doesn't match, it gets really upset about So the fact that you can that is a big win for repairability and just keeping your console healthy and not having to tear it all the way down to swap the world's tiniest battery. (plastic clicking) it's like physically painful like it just sounds so bad. So this is very easy to get You're popping it off, we've used a couple of From this point we're voiding warranty land. Well, depending on who So we'll just actually So again, just like with the PS5 Slim, there's a little plastic protector here over where the fan connects, so you can take that off and and we should be able to swap So the four screws removed I think this fan should just pull out, and that looks very In fact, so the fans are Now I would say that the PS5 Pro fan, if I put it on the table here, it's ever so slightly taller, but besides that, it's the it looks like about the and they are interchangeable. So I could just drop the Now because these blades and it runs at like 0.1 amps more, it's probably gonna move But based on our thermal testing, it only was pulling what - [Ken] It's like the - There we go. With our trim piece removed, Okay, that looks so similar, dude. That is so similar to the PS5 Slim. So for quick comparison, this is the backside of the You can see we've got two heat pipes that run all the way around. If I put that with the PS5 Slim overlaid, you'll see that it's very similar, but the PS5 slim only So definitely a very similar design. Just slightly plussed up for the PS5 Pro. Oh, that's cute. So the little CMOS It's just held in by this little nubbins. What's wrong with nubbins? Nubbins is a perfectly legitimate word that I can use whenever I want. Okay, at this point I just gotta undo a whole bunch of little screws. Like, I don't even wanna count that many. Wait, this whole heat sink Wait, okay, so this is I was just gonna blast through it, but there's two screws that I didn't realize. Whoa! Oh! Oh, it just does come off. Okay, got it. So, fun fact, you have to which is apparently just held on with a little bit of thermal paste. Okay, and I think this is our last of very, very many screws Now, just like the PS5 Slim, there's also this little connector here, which I believe is for some But, regardless, I think the little metal retention bracket. Okay, so we've got ourselves which looks beefier than the PS5. I'll put that off to because we do have a big So look at the power supply. As you can see, the PS5 Pro So this is a 372 watt power whereas we got a 420 watt So for context, just this is a PS5 Slim and this is a PS5 Pro. The PS5 Pro is absolutely to the PS5 Slim. Yes, we have a bigger heat sink here. So we have seven heat It's got a little bit more mass Certainly has a bigger sort compared to the PS5 Slim, but it's very, very similar looking. (PlayStation clicking) There we go. That's okay. That's okay. That's a good noise. So we got ourselves, oh my God. Yeah, you wondering it's more thermal compound Good Lord! how are we gonna put that back on? - So, now, again, just like the PS5 Slim, there's this little retention which has two screws. I think we're basically So again, PS5 Slim on the they look very similar. So you can see our SSD controller and our NAND, our 16 gigs of GDDR6, which is routed around the APU, which looks exactly the The big difference I see here though is with this extra which I'm pretty certain is So on the PS5 Slim, 16 gigs your background tasks and Whereas on the PS5 Pro, all your OS, all that kind stuff is gonna which means that your 16 gigs entirely freed up for games. Your &quot;GTA 6&quot; will have four running around instead of three. Just listen. Just listen to the sound as - [Alex ] Okay, that I heard. Yes. It sounds like wet paint. - Behold my friends, our and that is just literally a larger chip. Same kind of deal, we've already taken off the little thermal pad for the PS5 Slim. So you can see that it normally has all the liquid metal on top and that liquid metal is contacted with the actual heat sink here. It could be five nanometer. I'll be honest. I don't know if it's but I physically, well, but I cannot measure that would be really impressive if I could look and go, &quot;Nah, yeah.&quot; 279. Wow! Wait, hold on a second. My rough math here, and keep in mind I'm using these calipers so it's accurate-ish, but fully tear everything apart to be sure, the PS5 Slim, according is 271 millimeters squared. The PS5 Pro is 279 millimeter squared. That is almost the same. This actually might be I don't know how else they would be able to essentially make the chip the exact or almost the same size, right? Very, very close and fit that It's hard for me to that this is not a five nanometer chip, which would make sense why it's $700 'cause I'll be honest with you, the rest of this sort of overall layout is very similar to PS5 Like, yeah, probably a few a few more dollars here and like a slightly But, like, there's not even with the extra SSD, which So there's some slight with the CMOS battery, which is available without having to tear the entire motherboard apart. But really the mystery is I can't understand any other way that they would get this very in a chip, which is almost the same size and with a way, way bigger GPU. But for that, I guess that we'll solve another day. If you enjoyed this video definitely be sure to ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling The Switch 2 will be out soon, right? I can tear that one apart too?