Well, I am greatly challenged on some occasions, one verse. This morning I made it through a whole chapter, That's the book of Esther. You want to open your Bible, if you will, continuing series on &quot;Twelve Unlikely Heroes,&quot; Through the years, we have looked at the book found it to be a marvelous, marvelous book. It is one of two books in the Bible in which The ruler who is featured in the book, is And yet to any reader of the book who reads in the book. God is putting Himself on display in amazing Let me take you back in history. This is going to be a little bit like a lecture The year was 480 B.C. (I love history; you know that.) The year was 480 B.C. and a massive Persian rebel forces of Athens and its Greek allies--Persia Ancient sources number the Persians at a million Or modern sources hedge on that a little bit In any case, Persia is putting on a massive At the time, the Persian Empire stretched to Pakistan in Asia. It was the largest empire in history, the But the best we can tell, there were about that day. They had conquered the Babylonian/Chaldean in to domination in the Middle Eastern world, they were replaced by the Greeks, who later But initially the regions of Greece had been that would be back in 550 and following. Darius' armies had been defeated by the Athenians Enraged Darius was determined to subdue his He amasses a great army. He's going to go back and he's going to pay that famous battle where a man ran 26 miles, marathons. So the king, Darius, had great intentions However, he died before he could exact his And the quest for vengeance fell to his son, This is a man named Xerxes, Xerxes--famous from 519 to 465 B.C., rises to power in 486, of business is to deal with Egypt in Babylon has to subdue them. He's unable then to set his sights on Greece, But by the year 481, he's ready to attack. So Xerxes gets together to get vengeance on reign. He gets together an army of 250 thousand men. They're stacked in modern-day Turkey, and Now, in order to cross into Greece, they're They're making all the plans for that and Things, however, didn't go as Xerxes expected, city but the Greeks ultimately defeat the There's some very famous battles--the Battle know that; the Battle of Salamis, where the the Greeks. I think they lost as many as 300 of their All of that simply to say there is battle the reigning world empire, and the Greeks as the next great empire. Xerxes fights repeatedly against the Greeks. And he has some measure of success, but more along by the name of Alexander the Great, defeated for good. And Alexander the Great conquers the Middle as the great Greek Empire. Now what does all this have to do with the And there are a lot more details about that, , but what does that have to do with the book Well, it has this to do with the book of Esther: that I've been talking about has a different Hebrew, Ahashverosh ; in your English Bible you're going to find in the book of Esther. The king in the book of Esther is none other the Greeks and ultimately lost the Persian This is the man who tried to conquer Greece This is the man, Ahasuerus, the king in the the ruler of that empire after the death of And he is the man who has his heart conquered And when the opportunity came, she would use genocide. That's the story of Esther, how one woman from genocide. The book has her name, not because she wrote We don't know who wrote it; maybe Mordecai Maybe Ezra wrote it; maybe Nehemiah wrote in Persia, somebody who understood the Persian Jewish culture and had a detailed knowledge But whoever the author is, the real author Behind this richly played out labyrinth of So let's start at the beginning of the book. You can open to chapter 1; we're going to The book opens by describing the expansive And it stretches from Ethiopia, as I said, Libya to Pakistan. He is not only the son of Darius, he's the the Persian ruler who decreed that the Jews of captivity. That's how the book of Esther begins. Many Jews went back to Israel under the decree They went back; they rebuilt the city of Jerusalem. They rebuilt the temple, the second temple. They reestablished themselves in the land. However, there were a large number of those who remained there. They settled, they scattered, they proliferated, Several years into the reign of Ahasuerus calls a six-month summit, does the king, in called. This occurred in 483 B.C., and this is a strategic session. And what is it about? The king is going to make his final preparations about, which was unsuccessful. But he's going to make his plans. He is confident in his ability to knock off are going to be triumphant. So he ends the six-month summit of military Now look at your Bible and look at Esther that is held because of the anticipated victory. There were white and blue linen curtains, and purple on silver rods and marble pillars. The couches were of gold and silver on a mosaic and black marble. They served drinks in golden vessels, each royal wine in abundance according to the generosity This is a seven-day drunken orgy, if you will. On the seventh day of the feast, Ahasuerus, decides he wants to put his wife on display, Her name is Vashti, Queen Vashti. So he commands his wife to show up on the regalia. Well surprisingly she says, &quot;I'm not coming Evidently concerned that her dignity would of mostly men who were mostly drunk, she doesn't Some have suggested she may have been pregnant in history. She was uncomfortable with being seen in public. She said, &quot;I'm not coming.&quot; Ahasuerus is furious. This is public insubordination. This is public embarrassment. This is making him look bad with the royal there. And according to chapter 1, verses 17 and action will start a women's liberation movement; then every woman is going to do this. So he demotes her. She's no longer the queen He announces his intention then that he's a new queen. And he makes very clear that no one can disobey deposed and replaced. Ahasuerus, by the way, has a violent temper his queen. Just a year later, in order for his massive assembled, as I said, into Greece, Ahasuerus that's that narrow piece of water between needed to get through there to get to Greece. And the bridges were, however, destroyed in them. Ahasuerus was furious that the storm had destroyed He thought that they had been built inadequately together and chopped their heads off. He then was furious with the water, so Herodotus, sent soldiers into the water with whips demanding insubordination. And then he sent soldiers who threw shackles the waves with red-hot irons. This is irrational rage, obviously. But this may be a bit of an explanation of Four years pass and there's no queen. According to Esther chapter 2, verse 16, four a new queen. Why four years? The answer is found in his two-year, unsuccessful by talking about. The invasion of Greece happens in that two deal with the issue of establishing a queen. Persia's two-year, unsuccessful invasion of demotion in 483 or 482 and Esther's coronation He finally is so frustrated by his inability after two years of effort. And he decides that since the war is going And the distraction will be selecting a new Look at chapter 2, verses 1 to 4: &quot;After these he remembered Vashti, what she had done and Then the king's servants who attended him for the king and let the king appoint officers may gather all the beautiful young virgins under the custody of Hegai, the king's eunuch, That's a harem, in case you were wondering. &quot;'And let beauty preparations be given them. And then let the young woman who pleases the This thing pleased the king and he did so.&quot; Okay, this is going to be an empire-wide beauty assumption that if there are 50 million people women to pick from--25 million. That's the scene. At that point, the biblical text introduces Jewish people who are cousins. They live in the city of Shushan as well. They are descendants of the original Jewish in the Babylonian captivity. They were brought to Babylon a century earlier--or earlier around 597 and following. The older of the two is a man named Mordecai his young cousin, an orphan named Esther. Verse 7 says that her parents had died when her. So here in the middle of 50 million people Jewish people. Her name in Hebrew is Hadassah, and it means Her Persian name, Esther, may be related to may also be because of its similarity the So she may have been named Star, or she may Ishtar, who just happened to be the goddess That was not her Jewish name, but the Jews and his three friends whose original names became Meshach, Shadrach and Abednego, Babylonian That was a custom. Now the Bible text, look at chapter 2, verse young virgin by the name of Esther was lovely She didn't go unnoticed by the king's officials, to go to the palace and live in the harem contest for the queen. Josephus, the historian, says there were 400 The thing went from whatever the amount of beautiful women. And they were taken to the palace because they were going to be allowed to kind of work And at some point when that year was over, would be able to make his choice. One of them would be elevated to be the queen. They had a year of primping, which seems a But nonetheless, I don't exactly know what A year of beautification. They were to look as beautiful as possible. They were to smell as good as possible. They were to use incense, cosmetics; they their hair. They were to develop pleasant fragrances. They were to be given special instruction court and what all of the expectations were And this intensive training was to go on for And at the end of that twelve months, each to make an impression on the king to be selected At the time, she would then adorn herself she desired and she would be presented to The day after her presentation, she would of waiting ladies, other concubines, members his way through the 400 and made his choice. Esther is likely in her twenties. She has completed the year-long order, and chapter 2, verse 16. So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus, into is the month of Tibeth, in the seventh year And then this, &quot;The king loved Esther more That must have been a very special lady, because of blur. How do you stand out, out of hundreds? And she obtained grace and favor in his sight, crown upon her head and made her queen instead Then the king made a great feast, the feast and he proclaimed a holiday in the provinces of a king. This is like a Cinderella story. Esther stole the king's heart. Esther became his queen. An obscure Jewish orphan, a child of exiled highest position that any woman could have This is no coincidence. There's a power working here greater than There's a power at work providentially, orchestrating the emperor. Significantly through the entire process, Mordecai told her to do that because there You can see that in chapter 4, verse 6. Esther would reveal that she was Jewish, but time. So, Esther was chosen to be the queen. She is gone from being an obscure little Jewish by her physical beauty and her charm. Not long after Esther is crowned, and this Mordecai is sitting at the entrance to the He's hanging around the palace; why do you Who raised Esther? Mordecai, he's concerned about her. And so he hangs around the palace to get whatever And while he's hanging around the palace, Bigthan and Teresh, doorkeepers, became furious He overhears a plot, a plot to kill the king, These were royal officials who guarded the They had access to him and could readily kill They were angry. Maybe they were angry because of what he had Whatever it was that infuriated them, they just happens to overhear this. This indicates to us that Mordecai was in off-limits for most people and that somehow where he could hear conversations like this, held some kind of official position of prominence for him by Esther. When he learned of the plot against the king, The message is so the matter became known informed the king in Mordecai's name. And when an inquiry was made into the matter, And listen to this, &quot;And it was written in of the king.&quot; The Persians kept records of absolutely everything. That's why we know so much about their history. And the king's chroniclers recorded what had by Mordecai, that Mordecai had informed Esther, king's life had been spared, and the two conspirators Mordecai's actions were then written down Why did they do that? Because those kinds of things needed to be Loyalty needed to be rewarded as much as disloyalty And at a future day, there would come a time the life of the king. Like all ancient monarchs, Ahasuerus was careful loyalty to him. That's how he secured that kind of loyalty. And in order to be able to do that and do and special service rendered to the monarch. Now all of that is chapter 2. You come in to chapter 3 and you're introduced is a man named Haman, Haman. This is a man who had been exalted by the who had been lifted up above other princes But there's something very interesting about He was an Agagite, Agagite. It says that in 3:1-10; it says it again in says, &quot;Haman, the Agagite...Haman the Agagite.&quot; It keeps repeating that. That's not a small detail. It is the origin of Haman's hatred for Mordecai To understand why it's important to know that bit. Let's go back a thousand years, or almost The Israelites come out of Egypt around 1445 before. And they're attacked in the seventeenth chapter name? The Amalekites attacked them. The Amalekites are descendants of Esau, the Because the Amalekites attacked the Jews, in Deuteronomy 25 says, &quot;One day they're going God pronounces a curse on the Amalekites. God, the God of Israel, pronounces a curse Four centuries later, King Saul conquers the he captures their king and his name is Agag, Saul was supposed to kill Agag; he didn't He let him live. And Saul incurred the Lord's displeasure, did that displeased the Lord the throne was stepped in. And you remember what the prophet Samuel did First Samuel 15, &quot;He hacked him to pieces.&quot; Haman was an Agagite. And though almost a millennium had passed passed since the hacking of Agag to death, that it was a Jewish man, a Jewish prophet royal ancestor to pieces. To make it worse, Mordecai is a descendant Kish is from the tribe of Benjamin, and Benjamin They knew their history. There was deep-seeded animosity between the Agag for obvious reasons. And though nearly...What?...550 years had Agagite, Mordecai the Benjamite--had not forgotten The hostility erupts in chapter 3, look at to 5 and 6. &quot;All the king's servants who were within the for so the king had commanded. He had been elevated so high that everybody But Mordecai wouldn't bow or pay homage. That feud settled in his heart deeply. He had nothing but animosity toward the cursed When Haman saw that Mordecai didn't bow or &quot;But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai of Mordecai. Instead, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews the people of Mordecai.&quot; He decided that he couldn't just kill Mordecai, so he's just going to kill all of them, all So what does Haman do? He goes to the magicians and the astrologers optimum day by looking into your mystical people and we'll have genocide all through He then goes to the king and he says to the full of Jews and they are a threat to the They are a threat to your throne and to your And they ought to be eliminated.&quot; And he says, &quot;They ought to be killed all We need to go all the way back to Israel and Haman says they're a threat to your throne.&quot; Furthermore, if we kill them all, we can confiscate everything they own and a vast sum of money Ahasuerus says, &quot;Great idea.&quot; Hands his signet ring over to Haman so that that will authorize genocide for the Jews. Haman hits the fast track, dispatches a royal and they did it like the Pony Express. A horse would ride as far he could ride with go from there and the word was spread everywhere all across the parts of the Persian Empire Look at verse 13 of Esther 3, &quot;To destroy, and old, little children and women.&quot; All of them. In verse 3 of chapter 4, it says, &quot;In every arrived there was great mourning among the lay in sack cloth and ashes.&quot; A message stretched across the massive Persian set for the people in all their own local When Mordecai heard about this genocidal decree, put ashes on his head, he mourned openly. He mourned publicly at this horrendous act, Was this just simple payback by Haman? No, it's much bigger than that. Satan's involved in this. Satan is involved in efforts to obliterate God's purpose of redemption on their behalf. Well it didn't take long for the news to reach She gets the message. Mordecai informs Esther of what Haman has her a copy of the royal decree. And he says to her, &quot;Esther, you have to go people.&quot; Simple enough? Not so simple. In Persia no one, including the queen, went Anybody who ventured to go into the presence killed on the spot. Esther would not only be breaking royal protocol, Look at chapter 4, verse 11: &quot;All the king's know that any man or woman who goes into the he has but one law, put all to death except scepter that he may live. Yet I myself have not been called to go into The king hadn't even seen her in thirty days. We have to be honest and say he had many other He didn't get around to Esther for a month. She was afraid of potentially violating her for one act of non-compliance. And Mordecai was putting Esther in a position Well, Mordecai comes back and calls for courage. Look at verses 13 and 14, chapter 4, verses &quot;Do not think in your heart that you will all the other Jews,&quot; Mordecai warned his royal Look, you're dead if you do; you're dead if They're going to find out you're Jewish and Don't think you're going to escape. &quot;For if you remain completely silent at this the Jews from another place but you and your Wonderful confidence, right?--in the promises bless and sustain and preserve them. Mordecai says, &quot;Look, God will deliver them And then he says this famous line, &quot;Yet who such a time as this?&quot; He affirms divine sovereignty. He affirms his confidence in the revelation But he also understands that Esther can perish perish if she doesn't act. Down in verse 16, embracing her divinely granted the Jews who are present in Shushan and fast &quot;Neither eat nor drink for three days, night My maids and I will fast likewise and so I law; and if I perish, I perish.'&quot; Even if it cost her life, she will do what Esther doesn't mention prayer but she does There was no fast without prayer. For three days, she and others prayed and Her maids, very likely, would have been other She then approaches the throne. It must have been a tense moment, the seconds extend his scepter to her and welcome his To underscore his response, chapter 5, verse She comes, he looked at her, he extends the royal hyperbole. &quot;What do you wish, Queen Esther. What is your request? It shall be given to you up to half the kingdom.&quot; Again he is wowed by her beauty and her presence. She doesn't want half the kingdom. She doesn't want any of the kingdom. She wants the lives of her people. So Esther's reply was a simple request, and She asks Ahasuerus to put on a banquet for Well, he had to do what he offered to do. She didn't ask for the half the kingdom; she the queen, and Haman. Esther 5; look at verses 5 to 8: so the king had prepared, at the banquet of wine. The king said to Esther, &quot;What's your petition? It will be granted you. What is your request? Up to half the kingdom, it shall be done.&quot; &quot;Then Esther answered and said, 'My petition in the sight of the king, and if pleased the then let the king and Haman come to the banquet I will do as the king has said.'&quot; What is this? This is banquet number one. He says, &quot;Okay, we're here; we're at the banquet. Haman's here; I'm here.&quot; Ostensibly the idea was to tell the truth there right in front of the king. Something happened--the timing wasn't right--and do this again tomorrow?&quot; Can we do it again tomorrow? For whatever reason the timing wasn't right. She said, &quot;Let's meet tomorrow and have another Now Haman loved this, a banquet with the king king and the queen fit into his egotism very Haman left the feast feeling confident about Not only had Ahasuerus exalted him and lifted the Jews, but now the king and the queen had no higher honor could be given to any human So Haman heads back to his house. On the way, he goes by the king's gate and rage. He goes home and he says, &quot;I've got to get So I will erect gallows and will execute him of Saul, this Jew.&quot; That night, Haman slept soundly. This is amazing. Dreamt of his revenge the next day. On the other hand, Ahasuerus is back in the and turns, can't sleep. Whatever the cause of his insomnia, he does He calls for the royal records to be read Go get the royal records. Well, the royal records--he had been reigning before him to his father and his grandfather. Go get the royal records. Well, there could be a lot to choose from. Somebody went and got the royal records. I guess he thought, like counting sheep, that like reading the phone book, would put him So somebody brings the royal records and he And what he reads is the account of Mordecai's plotted to kill him. It was in the royal record. He had forgotten about it. Chapter 6, verse 2 and 3, it was found written two of the king's eunuchs, the doorkeepers Then the king said, &quot;What honor or dignity And the king's servants who attended him said Five years before, Mordecai had reported the Well, an eager Ahasuerus wants to make sure Meanwhile, in the morning Haman arrives back to the king and asks the king if he can authorize He's going to go and get permission to hang But before he can say anything, Ahasuerus shall be done for a man whom the king delights He thinks it's him. &quot;What do I do for a man I want to honor?&quot; &quot;Oh,&quot; Haman says, &quot;give him a royal robe; Let him have a prince to lead the horse through 'Thus shall it be done to the man whom the In a shocking twist of expectations, Ahasuerus horse that you've suggested and do so for gate and leave nothing undone that you've Things aren't working out the way he wanted Humiliation, shame, rage. Haman has no choice, so he is the guy who city. And everywhere he goes, he says, &quot;Thus shall to honor.&quot; When the whole disgraceful thing is over, his family and friends. He doesn't find it. Verse 13 of chapter 6, &quot;When Haman told his that happened to him, his wise men and his whom you have begun to fall is of Jewish descent, surely fall before him.'&quot; You're in trouble. If this is a Jewish man that is being so honored and all his people out, you are on the wrong The table's turned. In confusion, Haman goes back to the palace, Trying to steady his heart rate, sits down The king, again overwhelmed by affection for And here at the second banquet, she does not Chapter 7, verses 3 and 4. &quot;If I have found favor in your sight, O king, given me at my petition and my people at my Would you spare my life and the life of my &quot;For we have been sold, my people and I, to Ahasuerus couldn't believe what he was hearing. To threaten the queen's life? The height of treason. The king is furious. Verse 5, &quot;Who is he? And where is he who would dare presume in Sitting at the table, Haman, the noose is Surely, he thinks, the queen is not a Jew. And then with her hand pointed at the red-faced the enemy is this wicked Haman.&quot; All I can say is, the king is gorged with garden. He remembered the empire-wide program that of months earlier, how Haman had misrepresented the empire and he had literally signed the his own queen. Well Haman's still at the dinner table. He falls at Esther's feet in front of the He begged for his life. Ahasuerus, returning from the garden, blinded plea for mercy. He's down at the feet of Esther and he's pleading And this looks very much like an assault on Verse 8, &quot;Will he also assault the queen while Instantly royal guards covered Haman's face And how did they kill him? They hanged on the gallows he had built for What a difference a day makes. Amazing. Twenty-four hours earlier, he was on top. That was yesterday. The king said, &quot;Take all his property, give The queen gave it to Mordecai and the king Chapter 9, verse 4, the king exalted Mordecai had been to the king of Babylon. What was he going to do about the decree to a decree, he can't rescind the decree? What's he going to do? He has to issue another decree to override Chapter 9, verse 3 and 4, &quot;All the officials and all those doing the king's work helped upon them cause he had been so elevated. For Mordecai was great in the king's palace, for this man, Mordecai, became increasingly Because the king had elevated Mordecai to he had toward the Jews. And the word certainly would spread about He made a decree that the Jews could defend lives. They could prepare themselves for that day He couldn't undo the establishment of the have to do it, and the Jews can defend themselves.&quot; The day came, doomsday, March 7, 473 B.C. The Jews defended themselves--there were attacks; Over 75 thousand of the enemies of the Jews and the king backed them up. It was a day to remember, but not for the That great day, March 7, 473 B.C., established They celebrate it at that time of the year, synagogue. It's called, &quot;The Feast of Purim&quot; (P-u-r-i-m). Purim is from the Hebrew word for &quot;lots&quot; because he would exterminate the Jews. And so they took the word for lots and used It's a feast of triumph, celebration, the Listen to Esther 9:23 to 28, &quot;So the Jews Mordecai had written to them because Haman of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews is the lot, to consume them and destroy them. But when Esther came before the king, he commanded had devised against the Jews should return be hanged on the gallows. So they called these days Purim after the of this letter, what they had seen concerning the Jews established and imposed it upon themselves them that without fail they should celebrate written instructions and according to the remembered and kept throughout every generation, that these days of Purim should not fail to of them should not perish among their descendants.&quot; And that is to this day, a two-day holiday giving, memorial feasting as the Jews celebrate exterminated. Long after Haman was hanged, Mordecai and house of King Ahasuerus. The king exalted Mordecai to second in command, Against all odds, Esther, Mordecai and the but elevated, elevated. Esther 10 verse 3, &quot;For Mordecai the Jew was the Jews and well received by the multitude and speaking peace to all his countrymen.&quot; Amazing story. At this point, we'll bring it to a conclusion. Where is God in the book of Esther? Well, the real hero in the story, the real but it is God. His hand of providence is manifest in every His presence is more powerfully and dominantly of this complexity in Scripture, though He's His providence is at work in filtering down be queen. His providence is demonstrated in Mordecai, and warn the king. His providence, his power, his superintending the king can't sleep and decides to read the been read to him, what is read to him has And even Haman's timing is perfect in the The invisible hand of God is evident everywhere, The absence of God here is, I think, intentional...intentional. It is an ingenious strategy by the writer life's circumstances are ordered to the divine These are not coincidences--too many. This is not random. There is a designer. There is a coordinator. There is a power behind all of this. God literally thunders through the book of There are no miracles in the book of Esther, providence. People, places, time, action--it's more than Not Haman, not Satan using Haman, could destroy Abrahamic and Davidic promises, to the promises coming of Messiah and the ultimate salvation No one, no matter how they attempt to destroy can succeed because God's covenant love for And the message for you is this. While you're going through life and trying of your life, understand this: that there a divine architect ordering every detail. And if you belong to Him and are in the covenant will. And you can rest in that, you can rest in The Lord is still on the throne. These are challenging times, challenging days You can become pretty distressed about the in the world is chaotic, disconcerting, troubling, Not so in the kingdom. The divine architect is ordering our lives, love with Him. He is ordering our lives to His eternal glory, How wonderful to live in that confidence, Let's pray. Father, we are so encouraged by the amazing So thankful that You are the same God today That all things are being worked together glory. That is those who love You and are called We thank You that we don't live in a world by the Lord. That You have a plan that is working out for sovereign purpose. How wonderful to know that and it is inexorably Thank You for this great revelation that takes of life, and we live and rest in peace in We pray in the name of Christ. Amen.