Translator: Queenie Lee How many of you are dog people? A show of hands. Excellent! How about cat people? OK, you guys can go to the break early. (Laughter) So, of the dog people and the cat people (Laughter) how many of you have thought, &quot;Wouldn't it be great to know I think everyone else already knows I got into this project, and I'm going to tell you This is basically It really started who was really my favorite dog. I've had many dogs through my life, and he lived to be about 15 years old. After he passed away, I thought, I have these tools, this MRI machine, to study human decision making why haven't we used this on other animals? Certainly, other animals have many of the same feelings But this is kind of an area of science So I embarked on this project to try to figure out what dogs think, If we're talking about humans, we have kind of two ways we can think about what we can either ask them, if they know, and they want us or we can observe actions, we can try to infer things about what With animals, and dogs, of course, We can ask them, but we really don't know So we're kind of left we can observe their actions, and we can try to infer This is the foundation of behaviorism, But there are, of course, and humans being humans, It's kind of in this area that I became very interested of trying to figure out what dogs The technique is straightforward. The idea is: if we were studying a human, we would put a human in an MRI, and we'd measure blood flow and then try to figure out Very straightforward, it's not terribly pleasant, How do we do this with other animals? I'm going to show you what we found. Here's a short video. It's a what we call our training video, Before I start it, you're going to see The first dog, Callie, is my dog. She was actually She was adopted here in Atlanta We loved Newton so much; so Callie is the anti-pug. The other dog is McKenzie, We just kind of get right into it. I'll narrate as we go along. [Callie - Introduction to head coil] This's Mark Spivak. He's my partner in this endeavor, The first thing that we had to do is figure out how do we get dogs to put a head coil around their head and hold absolutely still. What you are seeing here, is that she has no particularly special skills. But she does have one very good trait, Mark is doing what we call Every time she approximates he clicks, and then she gets a hot dog. This's the very first time she's been introduced and we didn't know at this point whether this was even [McKenzie - Introduction to head coil] This dog, McKenzie, She's very skilled in agility, and her owner, as you'll see, (Video) Dog owner: Good girl! Yes! Is she too far out now? (Video) Gregory Berns: Yeah, basically, we are looking for the brain case That's good. (On stage) GB: If you've had an MRI, you know that you're told This is the big challenge of doing this. [Mckenzie - Holding without any chin rest] Up until this point, I didn't know if this was going This was literally When I saw that, I knew we could do this. [Callie - Training with chin rest] What you saw McKenzie doing was close What we are going after if we're to achieve data (Video) GB: You are perfect! (On stage) GB: Mark told me than I am normally. (Laughter) (Video) GB: Perfect! Yes! (Laughter) (On stage) GB: What you notice we did because we have to give the dogs McKenzie adapts this very quickly. She's actually in a simulator She's doing quite well, but this is actually The really difficult part of this playing in the background. These are recordings that we made It's very loud. This's being played at low volume But it's really about 95 decibels, and it's like jackhammer loud. (Video) GB: That's it, (On stage) GB: This is after [Callie - Scammer training] We're at the real MRI now. This's probably the most expensive (Laughter) We get charged about 500 dollars (Laughter) But we had to use the real thing At this point, we didn't even know how The key thing I want you to notice is these dogs are doing it willingly, That is the whole point of this project. We treat these animals We don't sedate them, [Callie - Final training] This's actually after We made some modifications and even a shelter dog [Full chin rest, ear muffs, If you look carefully, you also notice It's very important because the scanner is so loud, [This means &quot;hot dog&quot;] The other thing that we did - (Laughter) This's a scientific experiment, really. (Laughter) [This means &quot;no hot dog&quot;] That's the training video. The &quot;hot dog, no hot dog&quot; hand signals, we started with this because we didn't know so we decided we needed This's just straight up where we taught the dogs this means &quot;hot dog,&quot; If this technique works, what we should see is activity to this hand signal but not this signal. I also put up a slide here. Once we started doing this, the word got out amongst that we're doing this crazy We're looking for volunteers, especially people who like to train dogs That's still true. If you have a dog that can do this Because the project is still going on, You've seen the kind of preliminary video. This's one of my favorite photos this is the first day It captures the human confusion here. We were just standing around trying But Callie knows, she's been trained, so she's ready to go. The head wrap is just This is what it look likes from the business end of the scanner. This's actually a dog named Zen. What we're studying initially Very simply, we got and the idea is we compare As I said, we have many dogs it's not just shelter dogs. We have dogs from we have shelter dogs - Before I show you some of the results, I do want to say something A dog brain - this slide is not to scale. A dog brain is probably about the size depending on the size of the dog. It's not big, even if you have a big dog, most of the head is muscle, But I like putting up this slide because it shows You can immediately You can see towards the right is the cerebellum that controls and then below that, The really the parts of the brain are what we call the cortex. That's the upper part, the folded part. The big differences between dog and human and how folded it is. What folding accomplishes is packing a lot more brain surface area Generally speaking, the more folded a brain, the more brain power, if you will. There are lot of similarities, What I am particularly interested in Because if we were to have a commonality and other animals for that matter, we have to share the same Darwin said this 150 years ago. What do the results look like? This's a very compact way which I showed you where the dogs and we've averaged the results over, I think though, we've done this The orange areas show what parts of the brain are more active this hot dog signal. What I want to emphasize is the brain response it's to the hand signal You may think that's not a big deal; It's no surprise that dogs like hot dogs. But it is a big deal it's a symbolic representation and has learned The particular parts of the brain that are being active There's kind of two hot spots. There's a headlight type picture. That's in an area of the brain It's the area of the brain and it's the area that has the most It's kind of the key center that links Normally, when that's active it means that something and the animal needs to do something. In this case it's quite simple Well, so what? So we proved that dog brains That was just the beginning. This started about four years ago, and we've since gone on Most of the dogs in these pictures, We've done things looking at how their olfaction, how they identify different people, and other dogs One of the things that we found the same part of the brain activates even if the human is not there. It shows that dogs of our identities that persist When people ask me, I have to say yes because we find evidence that they care about them, and that it's associated Is it still just hot dogs? To answer this question, was we actually repeated where we show With one little twist: Does it matter if the dog's Or whether a stranger comes in Or even whether a computer Because if you believe Pavlov, it really shouldn't matter, because any signal that indicates if animals and dogs But in fact, we did find a difference. What's very interesting about it For example, my dog Callie in that part of the brain when a stranger gave the signals as opposed to me! (Laughter) Other dogs in the project, some of the golden retrievers in the labs where their owners had really elicited This is very interesting because what it does is it provides us with a neural biomarker In fact, what we've done which we're very excited about. We've partnered with Canine Companions for Independence, which is the largest service dog training If you know anything about service dogs, It's very expensive, Roughly about 35% of dogs to train to be assistance dogs the other 2/3 end up being released So we've partnered with CCI, and they're actually training their dogs What we're going to do which of those dogs I really love this project because it shows just as my silly example what my dogs think, it's actually gotten much bigger. Dogs are special. They're the first domesticated animals. They have been with humans When we look at their brains, it's almost like we and it's giving us a picture Thank you. (Applause)