China's appetite for energy is enormous. The country consumes about a quarter of the world's energy supply, 35% more than the U.S. annually. Its energy needs have more than That consumption has helped but it's come at a cost. China is the world's largest There is no way to tackle climate change unless China reduces its The country's reliance on to its own growth and the China is not energy secure. It has a massive import bill It has a longstanding pollution problem, and it is also prone to outages that severely hamper industry. All this has led the to take steps towards a President Xi Jinping outlined his plans to make China carbon neutral by 2060. COVID 19 reminds us that humankind should launch green revolution and move faster to create China's high level goals it's going to peak its carbon emissions. And then it's going to So that gives it approximately 40 years to do something that no let alone something As the world starts to turn China is positioning itself not only transforming but also building a supply uncomfortably dependent on China has really expanded its grip. So it's the processing, it's all the way down to your How the West deals with that, they're going to have What China plans to accomplish by 2030 could determine the shape of the global energy system of the future. At the end of the last of an economic revolution. In 1990, its GDP was and its energy use was only 34%. But the economic reforms started the process of and opening up to trade By the time it joined the World China was well on its way to with booming energy needs to match. The history of it is really dramatic. I think just the condensation, really China is doing a hundred years after that, all of that in a very So what we saw is obviously of energy consumption, and in the early years, really trying to cope. Dramatic in particular to deal with that. From a climate perspective, well, you had your When you were growing, you as the West, there was no question of You did whatever you That really changed in 2008, 2009. And that coincides with an In Beijing, which is Some environmentalists say it Beijing was famously in the world for almost a decade. It also became very clear that kind of growth will be unsustainable, not just from a fact of but from a fact that much of for example oil and natural And that's something China So starting about 2010, its deployment of renewables. China, like many other places with initially very economics for solar and being able to of the key components, ensuring the power that they All of these things, China You push the market into existence and then you're able to pull back with some of the policy mandates because now it just makes China's investments in astonishing price drops leading to record levels of new all over the world in recent years. Last year, wind and solar of the world's electricity. Still renewables only of China's energy mix today. China is overwhelmingly at the moment. And within that if you it's overwhelmingly coal, roughly 60%. Wind, biomass, solar remain a There was pressure building up on China for quite a few years that to cut emissions. And that finally sort at the Paris Agreement when alongside the US and pretty much every country on the planet. That bit of diplomacy to the next stage, which is that it will set a net zero goal. And in a way it was a coup for China because it set that goal even before the US could have done so. China's decarbonization with fossil fuel emissions increasing for a few years before peaking in 2030. From there they've given to get to net zero, with 80% of energy coming from carbon free sources by 2060. Getting there will be and it starts with renewable megaprojects on a scale seen nowhere else on Earth. So late in 2021, we took a in western China. It's quite wind swept. It's a very sunny part of the world. Very low population density. We went to a facility that was spread out over 600 square kilometers, In that facility, they have a hydro dam, they've got a massive solar buildup, and they're adding wind When all of that is up and running, it's going to be producing It's enough to cover the power needs at any given time for Israel, for example. By 2030 China plans to up to 1.2 terawatts of wind and solar capacity, enough to meet all of the US' electricity needs today. But it's not enough just Getting the power where it needs to go is a mega project in itself. In order to ship all that electricity, China has basically of ultra high voltage power lines. And they're designed to from the west to where it's needed in the population and Power lines might seem of infrastructure, but they're of the decarbonization puzzle. A conventional AC power cable over the course of hundreds of miles. Hence the need for these What they do is they reduce on the way to transport this electricity. There are only two these cables are operating, Brazil has two of those By far and away, China is And the amount of money I mean, it's hundreds that they're going to be spending As China goes towards a net zero goal, its leadership has recognized China can meet those goals without having what's The idea of firm clean to generate carbon free rather than relying on when the sun shines or the wind blows. Nuclear power satisfies In most countries, the nuclear facing huge upfront and negative public opinion. Still it is a carbon free and many environmental to the green transition - China plans to build 150 new which is more than what in the last 35 years. Nuclear isn't seen as or at least we don't know if it is. It's not clear whether supports it or opposes it because they're not allowed to protest and show their opposition That still leaves the the high upfront cost of Here too, China may One thing that we all know is building huge infrastructure quickly. After decades of building and high speed rail, and like every super massive that China has built, that nuclear power plants. When you build projects and on budget, you actually that were imagined back when like stable, low cost electricity at a certain rate, at a China's efforts to decarbonize are likely to have many positive effects But that's not the only on clean energy. China certainly wants but it also wants to be a lot of money exporting the technologies that will clean up the China is incredibly the supply chain for green the green economy, whether or the elements that you need to process along the way, incredibly significant. China basically accounts for something like 75% of the world's Anything that you're going to I mean, at some point Chinese companies will have been involved in this. That dependence on China has lately been a source of strain. Last year, COVID related caused the price of of for the first time in decades. And some companies have pledged to take their business elsewhere due to reports of human rights abuses in the majority Uyghur which produces most of a key material in the Obviously there have been that the Uyghurs are The industry and the Chinese Some in the west are also concerned about China's dominance over the materials needed to make lithium iron batteries. Cobalt, for example, is a in the Democratic Republic of Congo where China has bought The Congolese government against those efforts, alleging and unpaid debts by a But the majority of are still at least part Chinese-owned. Crucially what China's the processing of these that eventually go into The processing capabilities of China outstrip those of all the I think any kind of excessive and energy dependency is no different. Think about Europe, Europe's how problematic that has been. So if we're going to have on China for renewable energy, it is not going to be a healthy situation. My instinct is that for a nefarious purpose, right? To dominate the supply chain in a way that is disadvantageous But, you know, that the is what is good for China. I mean, remember we're not so long ago, late '90s, early 2000s when China had rolling and we've got all this investment into making sure it can't happen again. From the way people talk about it here, they believe in the stable, secure energy Electricity rationing is being imposed in more than half of China's provinces. Power shortages are still ongoing. I think we've got a count of 20 provinces, where there are electricity curbs. Recently, China has been having flashbacks to the bad old days of A sudden spike in the price of coal led to widespread power shortages, leaving the government little choice, but to rational electricity It's indicative of a major flaw in China's decarbonization plan: even as they add world they largely cancel out those gains with new fossil fuel additions. And so this is the central challenge because as your economy grows, and even as you add all of you still need to make sure in order to keep the lights on. That's going to be the big Even China's world leading investments in carbon-free energy may not get them to their targets on time. But Beijing has recognized and environmental rationales for clean energy now When it comes to the obviously China's a long way off, and it's a huge, huge, audacious target. The people that are the top out right now, they probably to see it, right. Will they make it? I don't know. It's a huge, huge goal, but they believe they're going to make it. What I can tell you is they're and they're certainly going to spend a lot of money trying to get there.