Hi, do you know what? I've had so much positive reaction to that at a crossroads at 63 or what next at 63? I think the thumbnail had on it. I just wanted to come and talk about the purpose is of this channel. So now that I'm in my 60s, I definitely to say and YouTube is a platform for what they want to say in the world to in positions that you've been in yourself. Or just give our views and Now I'm not going to go anywhere I'm certainly not going to My interest really is in growing older we grow older and repairing what is as we go through our midlife years. I'm kind of coming out of the other I am going to do a video at some point when you've got different options that share the process that I use to narrow options so that I can work out what It's just wonderful. There are so many creators now, over And we're kind of just being ourselves community that I think sometimes in I think we all felt that And I don't know about you, but ... I think one of the great things that got used to using Zoom and doing exercise So we have things that are accessible And I think that's a great thing. But the only thing is it's very I'm in a car park... to isolate ourselves and not I've just come out of yoga so I go to this weekly class because I walk in there, I've been going for you know, I know that the yoga teacher ...delicate pelvic floors, shall we say? So we're not gonna be leaping around. She's really very careful with us all, And I lie down on my mat and I go, in my week just kind of melts away. I had to do it online last week because great 'cause it meant I didn't miss yoga. But I didn't, and I didn't have to leave being in the room with other people. So, creating a community on a platform Facebook .Facebook now is very, very People, I find, don't receive in the way that they used to. So I want to recreate And I'm looking into all the One thing that I've found really, lovely is the number of content creators me who are in a similar age group. We all have a different take on And we're really supportive of each You know, we're creating a community I'd really love it if you have a YouTube And then we can, anybody watching And if it speaks to them, and if they, that you're putting out, they'll and engage with your videos as well. And let's all help each other grow, can get some ad revenue coming in and then we're in a position then to make these things that we love doing. It's great fun! If ever you've thought of doing or I would urge you to do it because almost like a confessional. I'm trying not to make it I think you have to, you have to decide and how much of your life and the people Because this of course You don't really know who's watching. Anybody could be watching. I mean, over 5,000 people today, to What now at 63? I mean, that's astonishing, isn't it? I have no idea who those 5, 000 scary, and a little bit vulnerable. You definitely feel a But I think it's worth it, don't you? And I'd really like to know as well, What kind of format speaks to you? Because I'm experimenting at the moment. So since I did the What Next at 63 video about perimenopause and the symptoms And I did those at my desk where I knew light was good, and so on and so forth. And today's Not today, the last Wednesday, so I'm recording this between That was sitting, just I can't always go out for a walk and of those stabilizing things, a gimbal. Because otherwise, I don't know about along and it's bobbing about too So I'll get one of those so that Although I get out of breath when I walk, Oh gosh, I'm moving my arms. Stop moving your arms, Jo. It makes it too noisy. So I'm also going to use a lapel mic, And then I filmed a whole video, not receiver in my phone, so it just came out. So as I say, it's all fun and games. Oh, and then of course I did the actually, so I was outside, but I And I definitely need a microphone happened, if she moved her feet that's what you heard, you know, not So I'd really like to know, do you know, a chat like this or do you prefer I mean, I never script anything, but I try So just to recap and to remind you, share the research that I'm doing here. So from a, from a public point of view, my male and female, in the same stage of just after just so that we can share go through this rollercoaster, and that's So it's all a big experiment and I so that it's the most interesting and in some ways and informative channel. Back to where I was before. You see, this is why I need bullet Another personal reason that to attract some sponsorship. Now that sounds like a sellout, I know. It's only got to be things that believe in and what I'm doing. But I would really like, and this to have to make a decision about university and do my doctorate. And I'll talk more about that in do some research into how different And I need sponsorship for that my life where I can afford to pay the So those are the reasons And thank you for being here. Thank you for all your support. Oh my goodness, I've been blown away that we've been having on the We're Not Too Old video as well. You know, feel free always, If you want to support any YouTube channel from clicking the thumbs up button and and engaging with it because that means that are interested in the comment that... not in the comment! People are interested in the and then it shows more people. Well, obviously, the more people out, hopefully, the more people So the next video that I've got coming is about the new life stages we find that interesting as I did. Doing this research has changed the So I look forward to seeing you on that. I look forward to having a conversation Thank you again. I'll see you soon.