1 - Thin strip jig Cutting thin strips on the table saw can be you're not careful. It becomes difficult and kickback can easily occur. There are a few ways to make this type of this one. I'll use this to cut say half as thin as one eight, I get a little nervous the tool. The leg is replaceable, but it's good thing when using the table saw. Another option is to use a physical reference blade so you can batch out multiple strips practical tool - once in position just turn locked in place. I've never actually tried it this way. I like the safety of this method, to adjust your fence on every cut, which can A third option is to build a simple jig. All the handle, and a thin strip for the heel. fancy. I'll simply screw the wooden block plywood. I'll first create a temporary bond activator. I can then flip it over and screw using a countersink bit. For the heel, I have a random thin strip of can use a thin piece of plywood instead. I'll it just a bit so it won't interfere with the can then easily screw it in, flush with the extends past the jig to the left, which is Okay so let's try it out. I know that my set my fence to 3- 1/2 PLUS one eighth of an of wood. So now you can see I've got a narrow I'm cutting fairly long strips so there's around the blade but if you're cutting short tape. After a few passes, I could clearly see it I'm still feeling a little bit nervous that so I think I can make this jig a little safer. I've got another strip of plywood here: wide - and I'm goin to add it underneath that the piece I'm adding has to be the Now I want this to be flush to the fence so simply secure it with a few screws. I'll also replace the heel with a slightly the entire back side and extend past a few Okay, let's test it out. I'm making sure up above my workpiece. I'll set the fence jig and 1/8 th for the width of the strips Wow, this feels much better. I feel safe and the blade and the workpiece. Plus, I barely other hand, just letting the heel and the a safe and easy way to batch out even thin 2 - DADO JIG Dados can be super practical in so many applications. for a bookcase, I'd draw a reference line, in my router. Then do my best to set the tip line (and yes there are better ways of doing up some sort of guide up against the router edge and clamp it down. Now I can fire up voila, we have a dado. The problem you'll often run into doing size. Here you can see that there's a lot actually a noticeable gap you can see here. a dado. The problem is that most 3/4 inch plywood isn't can see here, this one is actually pretty . And these last 2 are way under - I have actually about 23/32nds. And that's probably why they actually sell are 23/32nds. So this bit works great when clearly isn't always the case. So, today I'm going to build a pretty simple adjustable dado jig. going to try something a little different about 5 inches wide - and BTW I'll have and I'll leave a link to that down below. Alright, so I've got my 4 pieces and now and star knobs. But the first thing I want they don't spin endlessly as I tighten the T-bolt but it doesn't have to be a tight I'll go with about half an inch wide. I'll lower my blade to about a quarter inch at each end of both of my pieces. I can then progressively. I'll stop about midway then of the groove for all my cuts. Then remove groove is complete. Okay so my 4 grooves are cut and I can do - like I said, just a hair wider than the going to drill some holes right in the center I'm using a 5/16 bit to match the size of smaller pieces using the same bit. Okay, so that's pretty much it. Now I can slip the T-bolt into the tracks from underneath, both sides and add a washer and star knob As you can see here, by moving the pieces, middle depending on the size dado you need. piece you want to make a dado for and drop not too tight, then tighten down the knobs. Now just carry the jig over to your workpiece, it down. Then drop in your router. You'll like this one so the bearing can ride along about 1/8th and lock it down. You want to go around in a clockwise direction, I'll then lower the bit and go around again. snug without being too tight. So with jig dado every time. 3 - CIRCULAR SAW GUIDE I'll be honest: I don't care much for it challenging to line up the cut and get cut on the line. Instead you'll see me using a track saw cuts in sheet goods. But a track saw can also especially if you only use it on occasion. But the good news is that you can turn pretty making a super simple guide rail. You can needs, but I find the 3 to 4 foot length to inches wide and the other roughly 2 to 3 inches Next, grab your saw and flip it over to get the edge of the base plate and the blade. rough idea. Then add a half inch or so to that measurement to make sure the reference edge here is the your saw is blade-right or blade-left. Add a little glue and clamp the other piece some flat head screws and screw it down after All that's left now is to cut the edge to help you get clean and precise cuts. As you is to leave enough room on the opposite side without getting in the way of the motor. And on the blade side that I'll trim away for To avoid tearout, set the jig on some scrap blade so the tip of the teeth are just poking sure the base plate is pressed up against And with that, the jig is ready to use, so your cuts to prevent pinching of the blade. then line up the edge of the track on the saw glide along the track keeping it snug precise and perfectly square cut. You're 4 - VERTICAL CUTTING JIG This next jig is super easy to make and oh-so-versatile. can do more than that. You only need 3 pieces a frame sort of like this that will ride along around the fence, so I'll measure the width rip this piece to size. This outside piece doesn't need to be this There, that's good. A quick check to see here's the basic structure of the jig. Next it with some screws. Ok, the last step is to add a vertical piece workpiece as you push the jig through the square so I'll use a speed square to position a handle of some sort; I just screwed on a Alright, slides smoothly. You can also add better along the fence. So like I said, this vertical cutting jig honest I've never built anything using mortise you might need to make a notch in the end cart. This is the perfect way to make that joints, if you're into that sort of thing. Or say you want to cut an aggressive edge peel. Just tilt your blade, clamp your board I built a similar jig for making castle joints and more robust to support the beefy 4x4 posts support, it's much more stable. You can or cut away a portion like I did here to make beauty of these jigs is how easy they are for whatever your needs may be. I'm always looking for ways to improve my was at Princess Auto I saw this magnetic paper shot? I mean, instead of having my paper towel that's better. 5 - Keyhole slot jig This is a keyhole router bit. It's a super I used it for this wine rack I made and several of jig, it can be tricky to use. Actually without a jig. Anyhow, I'll show you how to make a super to measure your router's base plate. If The idea is then to build a box around the I'll grab a strip of 1x2 pine from my lumber is the width of my router plate, and 3 @ 7- 1/4 plus twice the width of my wood, plus 3/4 inch Next I simply need to assemble the parts like I'm just going to screw it together but to prevent splitting. Then I'll line up the edges and clamp it in the screws. Voila. A quick check to make sure the router to attach this piece that will act as a reference trying to make keyhole slots into. Just make nails for now so I can show you an alternative to trace a center line at the top which will So let's say I want to hang this plaque from both sides and draw a reference line Here's a look at that bit again. I like of the workpiece. That way it won't blow above the collar too. Using the jig is simple. First fire up the edge of the jig and slowly plunge the bit router all the way up and back down again. stop before pulling it out so you don't And voila, a perfect keyhole slot. The idea Push the holes over the screws, then press really well. Now you may feel like the keyholes are too and there's a simple way to make them closer a bit, say let's try 3/4s of an inch. Now with it and if you're interested in this Hey, I hope you learned something new and shop. Let me know which one is your favorite other jig videos that you may also find useful. ya soon!