The sun is a star. That's a profound statement, and one that's sparks in the night sky are pretty, but don't orb that lights up our days. It was a pretty the Sun and the stars are just different flavors is that the Sun is close, but the stars are Right away, let's clear up a misconception: average star. But that's not fair. Sure, range of stars, but the vast majority of stars By size and number, the Sun ranks in the top 10% it's clearly the dominant object: brighter, more But, what is it? The Sun is, essentially, a big hot ball of mostly across -- more than 100 times the Earth's million Earths could fit inside of it. And than the Earth, a staggering two octillion But if we want to truly understand the Sun, At the very core of the Sun, conditions are times the Earth's atmospheric pressure, Under those conditions, hydrogen is completely atoms are stripped from their protons. This particles. In fact, the protons are squeezed of mass lying on top of them that an amazing Through a complicated series of steps, the element helium. Along the way, some of the That amount of energy is described by Einstein's can be converted into energy, and vice-versa. Atoms are pretty small, though, so each helium a tiny bit of energy... but a lot of helium Every second of every day, the Sun converts tons of helium. The missing 5 million tons Buildings -- is converted into energy, and Enough, in fact, to power a star. It's equivalent to detonating 400 billion That's millions of times the entire nuclear And that's why, even from a distance of you can't even look at it. Even from that when you stand outside. Hydrogen fusion occurs in the core of the the core, but not quite enough to fuse hydrogen the gas becomes less dense, and at some point buoyant: it rises, in the same way a hot air convection, and it's an efficient way of hot gas stretch hundreds of thousands of kilometers the surface. The gas then cools and sinks see the tops of these columns, packed together Above the convecting layer is a much thinner, called the photosphere, or literally the sphere material inside the Sun gets thin enough that through it. At this point, the energy from It's this light that we see when we look The Sun is a gas and doesn't have a solid so rapidly compared to the Sun's huge size And there's one final layer above that: Sun's atmosphere. It's less than 1% as hotter; temperatures there can reach over dispersed that it's incredibly faint, and using special telescopes that block the intense for millions of kilometers. And in a sense it doesn't actually end. The wind, a stream of subatomic particles moving though mostly along the Sun's equator. The kilometers per hour -- yes, seriously -- and can When hydrogen fuses into helium in the Sun's light. This light immediately smacks into a little bit of the energy into motion, and energy. The light works its way out of the encounters a particle, until eventually it into the Universe as a much lower-energy photon So how long does this process take? I've seen different numbers for it, some calculations don't model conditions inside take into account the gas convecting for hundreds show that it takes closer to 1 or 200,000 That's still a pretty long time: The light the Sun's core around the time Homo sapiens The Sun's surface is, to put it kindly, I've been saying the Sun is made of gas, so hot inside the Sun that electrons are stripped what's called a plasma, a gaseous soup of that in a later episode. But, what's important generates a magnetic field. The interior of the Sun is essentially all with the Sun's rotation, sets up rivers generating and carrying its own magnetic field. their magnetic fields do too. Maybe you've seen those looping arcs of iron filings on a piece of paper. The solar can be zillions of them all over the Sun's get tangled up. When the plasma reaches the surface, it cools. prevent the plasma from sinking back down it from going through the eyelet on your shoe. cools it dims. It sits on the surface, dimming, Sun, which we call... a sunspot. Sunspots can be huge; they commonly dwarf can be seen without using a telescope (as long as Around the edges of sunspots, the magnetic the plasma even further, heating it up. This faculae (Latin for "little torch"). The from the Sun, but faculae can be so intense light. Ironically, sunspots actually increase Plasma on the Sun's surface can flow along huge arcs of material called prominences or of kilometers across the Sun, looking like We think these magnetic field lines are feeding which is why it's so much hotter. It's are following several leads right now. This Magnetic fields on the Sun also have a huge of them like very tightly wound and very stiff lines get tangled up. If conditions are right, a gigantic short circuit. When this happens, outwards all at once in an event we call a Even an average solar flare is mind-crushingly 10% of the entire Sun energy output. This launches material off the surface of the Sun at Another type of solar eruption is called a to a flare, but if a flare is like a tornado a hurricane, huge and strong. Like flares, erupt, blasting out energy, but they occur Both flares and CMEs eject material into space blast of debris can hit the Earth, and when atmosphere absorbs the high-energy light, are generally deflected by the Earth's magnetic But, if conditions are right, the Earth's Massive numbers are funneled down into Earth's to glow. This is what we call the aurora, on the shape of the magnetic field, the auroras can Not all the effects are benign, though. As very strong currents of electricity in the causing blackouts; in 1989 Quebec suffered The very first such storm ever detected was ever seen. If an event like that were to happen and potentially be very damaging. Satellite on those satellites for our modern civilization. equal of the 1859 event blasted away from Earth. Had it hit us, well, you probably wouldn't be This is why studying the Sun is so important. very basis of life itself, but it's entirely Understanding it is critical to our future. The Sun is the 2 octillion ton gorilla in Today you learned that the Sun is a star, plasma moves inside the Sun, creating magnetic solar flares, and coronal mass ejections. cause power blackouts, and damage satellites. This episode is brought to you by Squarespace. Seven, has a completely redesigned interface, Apps, new templates, and a new feature called and enter the code Crash Course at checkout Go Anywhere. Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association and find lots more awesome videos. This episode was edited by Blake de Pastino, and our consultant by Nicholas Jenkins and Michael Aranda, edited Thought Cafe.