Hi Internet, welcome to game theory. talking about Amanda the Adventurer. Do That's right! We need to play this game so we can Ah ah ah, let's try again. What Say the right answer! Look at that! We're now outside Come on. You have to choose something. Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory. The button? Don't click on that one. No. You don't Good choice. What a good...good...good good, Dora the Explorer. She's cute. stare at you for hours with her cold dead eyes. Can you say vamos a la fiesta? But what if you took the concept of Dora nightmare purgatory that we know all children's a short little indie title developed by designer Jam back in April. The basic premise is that the Adventurer in your attic, but immediately, you Mirror Matt: I love that the one E is backwards. Matt. The rest of the Es are correct In true Dora the Explorer fashion, Amanda certain words, pausing an awkwardly long amount Do you know where the store is? But be careful. This ain't the Dora you grew up incorrectly, she starts to get irritated. Troll into responding with the right answers, removing control of the keyboard. Also, can we just agree but we're playing them like a videogame? typing Just sayin'! Doesn't quite make a lot of sense. friend Woolie the sheep take you to a handful of getting apples from the Grocery Store despite the At the end, a glitchy roll of credits plays. frame by frame to see if there might be parodies of real-life celebrity names that MatPat: Directed by Heave Starvey, as opposed MatPat: Glands Pimmerman! MatPat: OHHH good one! Yeah. Oh But outside of all the groan worthy comedy, this thing, text that says "Turn The TV did exactly what I was told...or at least, I nothing would turn off or break, there was just no choice but to carry on with Amanda's Adventure, that scary backwards E wasn't lying. Woolie looking walking towards the camera, the other end of the screen. Telling us A glitch then forces Woolie back to has us at the Butcher's to get some Meat for is a vegetarian. and ask the butcher for the meat, he brings and we just stand there awkwardly watching as Meat: It's what's for dinner. Apparently not tonight friends, more like our sheep friend is gone with nothing but Episode 3 is all about going home...but we're Oh no! She wants into OUR house. Her body begins we hear the distorted phrase "Say Hello." we're met with a final jumpscare...a monster in room. Look at the wallpaper in the background. been watching these tapes on TV. It's an exact in true indie horror game fashion, has And then that's it. Roll credits. Like I said. Perfect for an indie horror let's play. But as it's pretty cut and dry: Just a classic, wants out of this game" story. Or at least, of Amanda the Adventurer there have been more secret tapes to the game that start building The first and most obvious change when you open appearing on the wall: two children playing this has been added after-the-fact childlike pose seems to indicate a brother and if this was normal life would mean practically for THESE PEOPLE ARE CLEARLY RELATED. Also, in the photo? Yellow shirt, blue pants...it's Amanda. Could this girl be our adventurer? Well, and Amanda in the tapes. On the second VHS, when they both refer to Grandma as... well... Grandma. that she is a Grandma to both of them, again related. Could it be that this brother and sister and sister somehow transported into the world Beyond the picture on the wall, the 3 updates get to the butcher scene, Amanda asks you what the answer is Meat, but if you type the word a new tape appears on your pile. Putting this one which update you are playing. Update 1.1 gives and a butcher shop with a load of pigs hanging you find on the secret 4th tape. This time, it circle marking part of it, seems to be continuing When you see the red circle in the forest, it is "Woolie". Clearly, this is where Woolie, was buried after being butchered...literally...by Nostalgic IP? Creepy tapes? Dead KID?!? Ladies At this point, I was just excited for it would expand upon the unfolding story, for the rollercoaster that it would take me on. realistic photos, but instead one final adventure treasure out in the middle of a forest. Three is clearly not his usual self. He's distracted, asks you to click the correct mound, and Yeah? Is it normal to use a noose It's then that Woolie completely breaks character, just like he did at the start of Episode Amanda will do to him. He grabs the Amanda, like a possessed child, transforming into the monster. If Woolie well, he certainly is now! But his outburst does The key word here is "Anymore." This isn't what is the "this" that she's doing exactly? Itch.io page. On it, we have two very "Curiosity takes hold and you decide to watch the take you back to a simpler age." and, quote So, we have an entity in the tape that wants YOU BACK. In short, it seems like a monster is into the tapes...feeding souls into the world reason why all the objects and buildings and trapped inside of this thing. Like Woolie said, of living objects inside of this world, looks The whole thing actually reminds me specifically the American sequel, The Ring Two. about a girl named Samara who exists inside 7 days later, the evil girl crawls out of the to see the resemblance in these stories, Amanda out of TVs to kill people who watch their show. characters has a dream about being pulled into by Samara. Later on, another character gets in both The Ring and Amanda the Adventurer, our to want to STAY out, having to return back That then begs the question, was Amanda ALWAYS a be dragged in by something that was already on the to go off of, but if I were to guess, it actually circles on the top of the monster's head. Notice fingers, hips. Even has Amanda's hair buns. are these white dots. Are they empty eyeballs? knowing that this is a game where humans and they're very reminiscent of the nodes on an EEG former life, I studied neuroscience. And one of sorts of EEG caps, or Electroencephalography caps. placed at specific locations around the head, all one section of the brain to the next. No joke read what a person's brain was thinking before I'm talking about very rudimentary signals I was taking a person's thoughts and I was putting THIS could be an explanation for the Amanda using one of these sorts of caps. And now she's this VHS world. Or, considering that Amanda is a with Mocap gone awry, where little white dots were capture her movement to create animation, only Regardless, this appears to be the moment of another victim to the forest, Woolie can't do this killed off and buried in the woods for it. It's Woolie, is depicted as a sheep...up to this point, what's right, he's been sheepish. He's then he's followed her like a sheep does. try to fight, he's ultimately slaughtered. murder. In the second half of this newest by Amanda, the video then shifts to found footage, with a flashlight wandering through the woods. looks like a shrine. They place this most recent ready to burn it, except they hear the familiar hear at the end of the game once you free the instead taking it back to their truck and lying Apparently this thing has But the key detail here is this: It seems like there's someone else, who're trying to gather these tapes because Swiper NO SWIPING those evil possessed tapes! Oh man! a box these tapes came in with an additional VHS people know about the evil that's on these literal least amount possible to prevent people the box telling people not to watch? COME ON, man! So, Amanda the Adventurer. A series of tapes trapped there, and then who goes on to capture themselves. Her brother was partners with her for only to be slaughtered when he got cold mysterious groups trying to capture the tapes I mean, that is some seriously scary kids content! But hey, that's just a theory. A Do you know what the subscribe button is? Good or gray? That's right, gray! If it's red you get all the latest videos. Now there's one last There's this one about another cursed indie tapes. Huh, I guess we really do have a type.