every four years the best football but today it'll be decided by football imperialism let me explain marked on this map are the 47 and what I'll be doing is spinning and then spinning this arrow to so let's say the wheel lands on Italy would travel South passing through Libya and before reaching Cameroon where they now the winning team wouldn't they would also get to take the and I'll be repeating this process until now pick your nation cause football what is gonna be our first nation to attack? it's gonna be Portugal and the direction they are going is... SOUTHWEST if we head Southwest from Portugal where Portugal will be playing against Ecuador and a single goal from Portugal would be Portugal has wiped Ecuador off the map but because they traveled through they also claim that land and as you can see, the captain of but he's actually not good but he is on the bench now you might have noticed these glowing symbols these are POWER-UPS which can help but only if they enter its border I'll explain more once they're activated Ecuador has been taken off the wheel it's going to be Iran and they'll be going... NORTHWEST and if we head Northwest from and despite a strong start from the Ukraine two goals from Iran's Nourollahi now Iran already have a pretty good attack but I feel bringing in Ukrainian talent Mudryk into this team will make I wouldn't be surprised if they go really far the next three rounds would have Costa Rica losing to Mexico and Japan playing against Australia after 120 Minutes Japan vs Australia it all comes down to this if the Japanese keeper can make he knocks him out, and takes over their land is this gonna be it... AND HE SAVES IT! Japan have defeated Australia! look how happy, looks how much it means to him after 5 turns there's already but prepare yourself for some spectacular goals heartbreak, and ultimately glory let's see what our next team is Ghana and they're headed SOUTHWEST and as we head Southwest from but we don't hit Brazil, we don't with just seconds left in the match Argentina and that goal would see Ghana erased from the and the following spin had now this matchup is a little as Poland was the country that knocked them so this is going to be an interesting match but Zielinski and Lewandowski now Poland has taken over Sweden's land but they've also added Dejan his name already sounds pretty let's see if we can get our first power up... it's gonna be Saudi Arabia and let's find out which SOUTHEAST and if we follow my beautiful we hit the edge of Australia which is now Japan and because this is Japan's their Australian defender and goes from Osako and Kamada would so a lot would happen over the next few rounds Serbia would take Romania, Germany would expand into while Wales took Ireland and failed attacks by Tunisia and Northern on the next spin the wheel would land on now this match really hits home so I'm very curious if we and it all comes down to this if Musah puts this away, the he's going right... oh he does a panenka! to beat Canada to disrespect oh my days! so with that win the US now and I've added Alfonso Davies to their team comfortable wins for Norway Brazil was nothing compared to the late a goal in extra time by Habib would see Europe would see a massive as Serbia would fall to Italy Spain would take Wales France would beat Belgium Czech would move into Hungary but that wouldn't and a match between Norway and England resulting in Erling Haaland the next team is gonna be... China and they'll be going SOUTHWEST now if we travel southwest from this is the icon goalkeeper power-up so China will be able to add any and I'm thinking they should add Yashin only because I want to see him but there's some bad news... if you keep traveling southwest of China you hit Cameroon which is now Brazil they're gonna need all the help they can get oh look how cute he is with his hat on! I want a hat! wait I have a hat Yashin would have an impact right away and to everyone's surprise China but Brazil weren't going to go down that easy with Paqueta scoring two times in five minutes it's gonna be decided in a penalty shootout can Brazil complete the comeback? or will Lev Yashin save the day for China... if Danilo scores this Brazil win and he shoots it right at Yashin! Alisson can save the day here, all AND HE SAVES IT! Brazil have won! but I'm sorry Alisson it's probably because Yashin's coming in the next three rounds would France beating Morocco and uniting and in Argentina win against Uruguay next up we have... Spain and Spain will be headed... WEST no arrow necessary for this now let's not forget Spain's new and if they do beat Portugal, they'll in a fail master class would and Ronaldo joining the Spanish side the next spin would have where they would suffer a shocking and this would be followed by Spain taking 13 teams remain and we still and we still won't this round, and France will be going... NORTHEAST now I might have spoken too soon because we hit the Netherlands so the Netherlands have a really good team but we got to remember that Hakimi and Kevin De Bruyne into their squad but it would be Mbappe who would steal the show scoring two goals and winning the match for France and not only have France they've also added Van Dijk into their squad is this fair? maybe, only time will tell what is next wheel we got Brazil and they're headed SOUTHWEST it looks like we have a good match on our hands Neymar vs. Messi if Argentina win this ,they've reunited MSN and an early Brazil lead would be spoiled but two more goals from Brazil and add Messi to their squad the following spin sent USA SOUTH where a late winner by Pulisic and with that USA win we are who will take over the world?! we soon will find out Italy would be the first team after traveling south to Brazil territory and losing to goals from Neymar and Messi all right next up is Germany we and they're headed SOUTHEAST Southeast would be Poland where goals from Timo Werner and Muller even with their new player Mudryk we would where Haaland would be and despite a good start from France, a and in the 84th minute Bellingham France have been eliminated by England and what this means is that Mbappe things are getting very interesting despite their good run Japan, would be eliminated and Iran would fall to Germany with only a few teams left, but this time with Spain heading and that's where the Bandit and what this means is that Spain can add now I personally think that Spain's so what we're gonna do is but even with Alisson in net Spain could not stop Christian Pulisic now with the second semi-final Germany has to travel through the and the player were making 99-rated is Musiala because he is one of the biggest upcoming talents and I feel like he deserves the most and 99-rated Musiala would immediately but John Stones would provide 120th minute... will England beat - and they've done it! Trippier in the 120th minute! unbelievable! to beat Germany and head to the and after all those teams it comes down the GOATS and the FUTURE SOCCER versus FOOTBALL WHO WILL BE CHAMPION?! England would have the first great chance but somehow it stayed out but only a few minutes later and it seemed like nothing was working for the USA it's the 90th minute can England Mbappe, plays it out wide... Sterling takes it - US are on a - AND THAT'S IT! England are the winners of Football Imperialism! they have taken over the world! if you enjoyed this video make sure to SUBSCRIBE and check out this video right here PEACE:)