Idealist techie, you know, Stanford we're going to make outcomes better. Those companies all fail. Most early stage founders go to partners Tell me and I'll just deliver it for you. If you're looking to them They don't know Oftentimes, they're not sure They're not going to be able to tell you What they're really, really good at My name is Pelu Tran. I'm the CEO and co-founder Ferrum health is a company that is trying to the doctors and patients that need it. We just closed We've raised a total of $31 million. Our success is going to occur governments, AI developers, by enabling everyone in the market the way it needs to be deployed. I was months away from graduating decided to go on leave to start my Kudos goes to Stanford Med for allowing us So I was one of those students who kind of where I was doing like device work. I was working on side projects and the medical school, just one of those side projects. As a medical student, I was working in That was a nightmare. I was there while they were transitioning where doctors No one could figure out People were burning out and spending on documentation as they were before. And actually back in the day, was still emerging onto the scene. Everyone thought that it was going and that emerging technology that I was seeing in my day to day life We founded Augmedix because we wanted to. Doctors spend their day rather than documenting patient records. Augmedix and Google Glass allow a scribe what the doctor sees and hears We showed pretty early on that writing them to deliver better care as well. I was still considering going back do I maybe leave the company, go back But once we saw our technology additional patients a month, I realized, wow, like I have already had more of an in my entire career as a doctor. And we went to Sand Hill Road and we were able to raise and we spent a few years trying to build and ultimately continued to stay on leave So a few years into the journey, that Google Glass And so we had to figure out, and with this mission and if our company's brand has been built really clear mission because we knew, hey, It's about what we believed that we were able to pivot based versions of our software that they would bring around either or bring it around in their pocket. That still did the same thing. I think what that taught me is that if you for a problem, you're probably going And I think the difference able to continue to grow over time, is that we started off as a technology but we just happened to find a really, And so that allowed us to stay alive. Moving forward from that, around new technology trends. Even I the new wave of AI, all of those boom and bust cycles, they They never occur And so j'en ai today. Yes it's promising. Yes, it's going to change the world. Is it going to change the world saying it will at the timeline Guaranteed? Not. And it's because we always tend in the near term. Over the long term, they will have is longer time frame During that journey, I actually had an uncle pass away missed by his doctors and it was a really frustrating experience for myself and my entrepreneur in the digital health space. When we were providing care for him receiving the best care in the world. He was going regularly for his screenings. But because his doctors weren't using a lot of these AI diagnostic tools over the past decade, he wasn't able to In fact, it was missed He would have benefited so much His doctors wanted to use those tools, adopt AI themselves directly, like at some The question was What we realized was, if we don't start that someone else will and succeed. Ferrum health is our attempt at trying between the technology that's out there, the need for a platform that allows a single point Back when we first started how good these AI tools actually were. Some patients and some hospitals launched our pilot product initially, and that was an open source available online for public use. And we ran it for three days across their how many patients did this model find And three days later we're like, oh, wow. Like, there are almost 50 patients here It makes the mission of the company We happen to have a tailwind of AI hype maybe it lasts three more years. But like hype cycles come and go. And so there's going to be a time But for us, like we solve a real problem at some point you have to be solving or you will never be able to claw Early stage. Most early stage founders, are overly focused on building and not enough focus and problem they're solving. Figuring out what matters. What are the risks that I need to de-risk Like just by doing it or with a human being in the background, rather than having to launch the before you've tested out Covid was brutal, and this is not a super But Covid was absolutely brutal. It was especially brutal wow, if you're a healthcare company, But the actual reality was like most one was able to sell unless you were Really, honestly. Like we don't have So we're solving an AI deployment And that just was not a priority. keeping our investors and stakeholders and excited about this problem and years and years was really difficult. More patients died due to delay in care We're gonna keep focusing and we're going to try to build the best until everyone else kind of gets there. I think that easily could have led to the has allowed us to do now that AI is hot, now that hospitals are looking now that can all of our original theses, when we founded the company have come on that problem for the past five years, is that we are just, again, such a head start on the broader market. In order to actually succeed as a founder, with everyone thinking you're wrong I still have not seen one example of didn't think that they were completely A human being, you usually look you kind of have to be comfortable but being able to convince people the same way you did that you were right. And you do have to just be used what you're talking about or thinking just over and over and over, convincing them of why what you're doing and why it's important. A lot of my classmates are now, you know, that are making a ton of money. And so it's easy to look at, I would be some, you know, And especially as my friends all have now, Like it's an incredibly rewarding to actually go into. But that's probably one of the sacrifices And I just have to look the hundreds and saving and say like, listen, like, fine, like I'm not going to do it directly, to deliver a lot of impact in society, You kind of have to start companies appetite goes down as you get older. The downside of starting a company is the lack of industry knowledge, I think it is much easier to solve and by networking and connecting You can solve those problems. As a young person for first time founders, to hospitals, go to partners and say, Like, tell me But the real challenge is like, oftentimes don't know how to solve. And so if you're looking to them They don't know Oftentimes, they're not sure And so they're not going to be able What they're really, really good at And so when we go in and we work align around, hey, what are the problems And it's different Some hospitals really care to the patients, and they want Many others care a lot about productivity hey, we solve the security problem, And if those are problems And if they aren't great, We're going to go focus And that's tough for startups if you're looking at revenue be a really difficult decision to make. But as a result, you know, love the fact that we solve a problem So I think that's been pivotal to us this trusted advisor relationship and Ferrum is not going to be able to be in the world uses for everything. Our success is going to occur governments, AI developers, by enabling everyone in the market the way it needs to be deployed. And so I don't think of Ferrum for the internet or as Uber for taxis. I don't think we're going to be I think that we are building the picks and shovels And if you can make AI truly fungible, truly liquid, truly zero cost to adopt, that future state that I talked about, transformed healthcare system.