Thanks to LEGO(r) ART for supporting PBS. We've long resisted offering any definition In my mind, Abrose Bierce was really onto 1906 Devil's Dictionary: "art, n. This word has no definition." It's not that there aren't plenty of definitions in some way, or incomplete, or so watered Take Oxford's: "The expression or application of human in a visual form such as painting or sculpture, for their beauty or emotional power." Wait, human creative skill? Do we really want to say other animals are And there are definitely artworks that I appreciate for neither their beauty nor their emotional power. Like a Thomas Hirschhorn installation I can or emotionally powerful, really. To me, saying how you're supposed to respond But is it impossible to define art? Or worthwhile to try? For a while now, I've been gathering quotes throughout history. I'm going to share some of these with you of this nebulous idea called art, or that for you. I tend to be a fan of the ones that are intentionally "The purpose of art is to lay bare the questions I like that it leaves the boundaries really Like for me the ancient Greek and Roman philosophers "All art is but imitation of nature." Which he could maybe get away with saying hold up for me now, when I see, let's say, TV from 1965. Aristotle set his terms a little more broadly, "Art completes what nature cannot bring The artist gives us knowledge of nature's Which I like for its proposal that art does That art works from nature and extends it Because, let's face it, if there's a competition I'm sorry, art, it's just not really a I'm reminded of a quote often attributed "Art is the unceasing effort to compete But of course not all art is trying to compete what's already around us. As Paul Klee stated succinctly: "Art does not reproduce the visible; rather, Put another way by Bertold Brecht: "Art is not a mirror held up to reality, It's the world-building aspect of art that Odutola's fictional portraits of aristocratic of Helio Oiticica, or any other work whose completely abstract. Artists have put forward objects and experiences in the world. I like Chinua Achebe's description of art himself a different order of reality from Because art after all, is not just a transporting it's maker as well. Twyla Tharp wryly observed that: "Art is the only way to run away without In the delightfully titled book Vague Thoughts it this way: "... What is grievous, dompting, grim, about with an itch to get outside ourselves. And to be stolen away from ourselves by Art a minute's profound, and as it were secret, And that brings us to my favorite explanations a means of exchange. John Dewey wrote extensively about this, calling that exists." He explained: "The actual work of art is what the product This, for me, is what art is all about. An astoundingly skillful painting is great it is by being taken in by others. And I don't even just mean human others, In the words of James Turrell: "Art is a completed pass. You don't just throw it out into the world-- Through art, we have the remarkable opportunity a while, to see the world as they see it, And in that process, we discover things about As Thomas Merton once said: "Art enables us to find ourselves and lose Louise Bourgeois phrased it another way: "Art is a way of recognizing oneself, which For me, this means that not only can the artist but that the appreciator can find some aspect Even an artwork that is centuries old can and understood in the present. And that brings us to one of the most famous is short." Or in it's Latin translation from the original Now in its original context it's often thought craft can take a long time to perfect. But it's most often invoked to say that And art is usually designed or at least hoped I like the way Kerry James Marshall described "What you're trying to create is a certain position in the narrative is not contingent knows you, or somebody's a friend, or somebody's Like, there's the hope that any person's talk about it or promote it or explain it. Gerhard Richter once described art as the And it is indeed an act of extreme optimism we admit we want to outlast us. I like how William Faulkner once explained "The aim of every artist is to arrest motion, it fixed so that a hundred years later, when it is life." This is exactly how I feel when reading a from the past, thrown immediately and viscerally my own but no less real. Through art, I recognize the humanity of countless Nietzsche said: "Art is essentially the affirmation, the Art tells me that other people really exist Which I know rationally, but only feel through For me, also embodied in that statement is I, in making something, affirm my own presence in the world. There are many ways art performs this win/win appreciator. Sarah Sze described art as sustenance: And it is sustenance for both artist and audience. Dorothea Tanning said: "Art has always been the raft on to which And that is also true for both artist and I think too about this 1968 remark by Anni "I have this very what you call today 'square' breathe with a different kind of happiness." Which brings us to another aspect of art, of what is inside you. Dorothy Parker once described art as a form Or the releasing of emotions that yields some Now this can be a gentle kind of thing, like "Every artist dips his brush in his own Or it can be a more violent affair. Georg Baselitz said: "Art is visceral and vulgar -- it's an Which feels about right when you look at Baselitz's expressive painters. I think we tend to associate "expression" on who is doing the expressing and what is "What is art?," Edvard Munch asked, "Art It is born of people's lives." Oh, Munch. We can tell it was mainly grief. But this is another of art's remarkable and wills of its maker. The artist Christo once said: "The work of art is a scream of freedom." And I love that for Christo and his collaborator a literal scream or hectic jabs of paint, as this monumental valley curtain from 1972. And a work of art isn't always an "expression," Sometimes it's the articulation of an idea Ralph Waldo Emerson described art as: "The conscious utterance of thought, by And that's why, for Joseph Beuys: "Even the act of peeling a potato can be Conceptual artist Sol LeWitt explained to "Ideas alone can be works of art....All of art may be understood as a conductor from But it may never reach the viewer, or it may Which reminds me of two other statements on "Art has to be something that makes you And another from Marshall McLuhan: "Art is anything you can get away with." And art is indeed challenging at times. It is now, and it has been throughout history. But that seems to be baked into the concept. Francis Ford Coppola explained: "An essential element of any art is risk. If you don't take a risk then how are you that hasn't been seen before?" And again, that's risk for both the artist You have to take the risk along with the artist And art is powerful. Even though it's made up, it can and has about things. There are many quotes about the relationship "Art is a lie that makes us realize truth." And Theodor Adorno's: &quot;Art is magic delivered from the lie of being But my favorite of these is Wangechi Mutu's: "Art allows you to imbue the truth with psyches of more people, including those who Empires and governments have understood the But the power of art is also wielded by individuals, that's part of what makes it such a compelling Both the making of it, and the experiencing It's hard to pin down this thing we call As a concept, art is slippery and flexible range of activities and objects and experiences. In Elbert Hubbard's words: "Art is not a thing, it is a way." It's the open-ended, elastic definitions what it really is. Duchamp once offered this one: "What art is, in reality, is this missing It's not what you see that is art; art is I love that gap! For me, that's where the magic happens. It's that space between the art and the It's the gap between my response to a work It's the air between all of us as we make I don't think we need a definition of art. But if we did, I would think it would be all others not included here. And then the challenge is to hold all of them deciding on any one of them. Because each of us decides what this thing This way, art can continue to shift and expand to make it, whatever it is. Deciding once and for all what art is would it in a new direction. It would limit what's possible now, and It should be an open and evolving concept, along with everyone else's. But I do have to warn you, you have to be "Art is a habit-forming drug." What is art for you? Let's talk about it in the comments. Thanks to LEGO(r) ART for supporting PBS. LEGO ART--a LEGO experience where a piece You can create Andy Warhol's famous screenprint presented - including a tile with the artist's different color combinations using the 3,332 This LEGO ART set comes with a companion soundtrack those who knew him, so you can listen as you Once completed, LEGO ART sets can be hung brick separator, LEGO ART can be recreated For more information, click the link in the Thanks to all of our patrons for supporting of the arts David Golden and Divideby Zero