There's kind of an illusion with sensation that could completely reset how we do things.&quot; According to all the headlines, it's on automatically with the slight side effect of displacing It seems so amazing. It's potentially No. It's hyperbole. It's hype. What we get with generative AI impressive, but it's not going to run the world. It does have the ability to but it's more limited. Whereas predictive AI, which is older, very much still has great amounts of I'm Eric Siegel. I'm the co-founder and CEO the founder of the Machine Learning Week AI Playbook: Mastering the Rare Art of Machine Learning Deployment.&quot; I became fascinated with the concept of seventies and then in the early eighties. Eventually, my education led me to machine learning, ninety-one. &quot;Whoa, Kasparov, after the move c4, has resigned.&quot; Now I was sort of semi-horrified with the decades, and it just got a lot worse in AI. It's going to feed that frenzy because seemingly human-like. Generative AI, something like chatGPT, a large language model, it is capable of communicating about any topic and often giving responses that seem to And I grant that on some level, it has captured understanding and the meaning of words and But I believe that the difference between what it can do become increasingly apparent. Generative AI is sort of correct often only as a side effect. When people say just makes things up.&quot; What impresses me is that it actually gets things right low level of detail, the per-word level, human-like capability. There's a big difference between that and the potential value. It's certainly So it'll produce a first draft of a letter something like that. But you can't trust everything that it gives you. That actually, in a way, makes it less potentially autonomous. The whole point of computers is to to the degree that we can actually trust that ultimately helps the economy. It Predictive AI, that's the technology you existing largest scale operation. It does have the potential to enjoy the So predictive AI or enterprise machine from data to predict in order to improve any and all of the millions of decisions operations. And these are the things that make the order to decide who to contact with be fraudulent to decide which transactions audit, which train wheel is most likely to inspect. It's not just train wheels. The predict which buildings are at most risk inspections, or which healthcare patient should we because they're predicted very likely to All of these predictive applications are a form of prioritization or triage, and the computer is systematically making fast, fully autonomous. So we have data. We give it to machine technology. It generates models that predict, and operations that we conduct. Predictive AI is so applicable across industries. Let's take the delivery industry. UPS is companies in the United States, and streamlined the efficiency of by predicting tomorrow's deliveries. That makes such a big difference that in combination with another system directions, to this day, UPS enjoys savings of three hundred and fifty million of metric tons of emissions. So this is how it works. When they have to trucks in the late afternoon or early morning, they have incomplete information. What they don't know is some of the night. So what they do is they augment the already have a bunch of packages in hand morning for their final deliveries. And they'll augment that with tentatively presumed predicted deliveries by applying a predictive model for each what are the chances that there'll be a Now they have a more complete picture of all the deliveries needed They can do a better job planning and the trucks go out in the morning, they'll take too many miles of driving, too too much time of the drivers. Now some of those predictions will be completeness now actually overweighs some of that uncertainty. This is what you need to do if you want to You need to work with probability. Assign a number. How likely is Here's the thing. It doesn't make a difference how good the It's not intrinsically valuable. The value deploy it and change your We have this incredible seemingly human-like capability of which in one sense, I think is the most But underlying the excitement is the idea that steadily towards and potentially very near AGI, Artificial General Intelligence, which is a computer that can do anything a of a computer, kind of, coming alive, which we see over and over again in In the real world, I do not believe we're going to fully we're actively making progress in that for mismanaged expectations, otherwise known as hype. The antidote to hype is simple. Focus on concrete value. Discover whether you're using generative Determine a very specific, concrete, credible use case of exactly how is going to improve some kind of operation and deliver value. If you want to just sort of explore how think it might be getting there, that's and that's great. But if you're talking operations that make the world go around, and less pie in the sky.