If I were to tell you that the cycles of you might think that I was suddenly taking a While there are many people in the things about your future by studying the a position I tend to take on this channel. and the mechanisms that explain why it is the way behind even the most surprising of stories. While I'm no writer of horoscopes, I will predict the next few years you might be more likely to see warmer weather with fewer clouds, and possibly do I know? Because it turns out the Sun, that the place we get our energy from. Science is just be the metronome measuring out how life on and you're watching Astrum. Today we're going to show you exactly how the cycles of the Sun are It's no surprise that the Sun is influential to is life's origin. Life on Earth needs energy that energy. Light for plants, plants for all the way up the food chain. It's hard to find But beyond the gift of that life-sustaining static. We see it rise and fall in the sky, but This, however, is an illusion. As science has advanced and we've been able it became possible to study the Sun's surface. And a boiling, shifting sea of barely restrained In spite of the intense gravitational force taking place in its core are so hot - reaching and bursts on its surface, erupting into Sunspots - dark patches of the Sun's surface that between 1,600 and 160,000 km across - form, drift, out of the Sun's corona - the atmospheric zone than its surface. It's hard to find a place in What many people do not realise is The Sun operates on an 11-year cycle that (the solar minimum) to a much higher Sunspots, solar flares and CMEs all become more times more likely to see a solar flare during and large CMEs go from happening once every This is known as the Schwabe cycle. of a larger cycle known as the Hale cycle, which Once every Schwabe cycle - every 11 years - places. When another Schwabe cycle occurs, the rising and falling of solar energy levels thrums like a heartbeat. And surprisingly, even though we We don't really understand why the Sun goes the magnetic processes that exists within the cycles in action for the last two hundred years, Earth over the last 10 thousand, we're still no length of that particular time period, rather any other obvious answer, some scientists of Jupiter - also about 11 years - to this cycle Although Jupiter represents 2.5 times the combined and definitely exerts some gravitational pull on (seemingly random) that the Sun's cycle undergoes. mystery to us. But its influence on It begins with the space around us. Space is so it shouldn't be surprising that from the Sun more regularly would have an Scientists are able to predict the arrival of by the time it arrives at Earth - days or even into safe shelters to hide themselves from harmful delicate hardware on satellites to be powered This is important, as solar radiation can cause overloading systems that haven't gone into a geomagnetic storms that you might not expect. All itself. It warms it, albeit just a little. As an impact on our satellites. In space, there is Well; this isn't entirely true, and satellites times a year - need to expend fuel to correct atmosphere up there. But when a geomagnetic storm satellites have to manoeuvre every 2-3 weeks And this isn't always enough. In 1989 there was a the NASA Solar Maximum Mission out of the sky, satellite down. Ironically, the mission had been incident. NORAD (The Northern American Aerospace satellites after each geomagnetic storm, as Radiation can also influence our This can have a slight lensing effect on our within a metre to over 10 metres. The next you might be a street across from where you Our power grids brace themselves every 11 years to keep themselves from being overloaded. find their High Frequency Radio range get deflected or even blocked completely As I predicted in my horoscope, this all adds up the next solar maximum is expected to arrive my prophesying. There are some bright sides to parts of the world such as Canada see hypnotically across the sky. Aurora chasers a year to as many as twice a month, during the So much for the Sun's influence on space and our it. The Sun's cycle might influence machinery, anything alive, right? If you think that, you'd my horoscope mentioned poorer health. There's influence ecosystems and species themselves - When the Schwabe cycle is at solar minimum, the which means ironically that we get less protection This form of radiation is highly energetic, but for that very reason, as it's likely to be But reaching the atmosphere is all There is a theory - although still far from be creating nucleation sites in the atmosphere Even if that's not occurring, during solar maximum global temperatures slightly. As my horoscope at Not by much, it should be said - less than half returns to where it started; but it's enough that temperature... for instance, to decide when to shown that on warmer years they tend to lay eggs researchers in the Netherlands went as far as also affected by the number of sunspots occurring, It's not like birds can look at the Sun to a link seems to exist, according to the This isn't something that affects just blue are sensitive to magnetic fluctuations - who fly 11-year cycle it is. I'm talking about the last There are numerous studies on how In 2011, a study spanning two decades of discovered a peak in 6 cervical pathologies when the Sun's radiation was hitting hardest. same period, which admittedly is a much smaller to note that the man experienced slight blood pressure and respiration rate that It's not just physical. There is even an influence looked at 237,000 clients in the Maine Medicaid found that, of all those clients, those born an increased rate in mental disorders. If this moment of your birth might just have influenced star signs, but astrology might just be on to Ultimately, the science on this is still ongoing, caused by these cycles are extremely minor. As one of patients to even notice that there was a health from living your life. We're currently heading in 2025. But for those who are worried, living bad. The same study suggested that this radiation adaptability. Perhaps it was during one such solar was first mutated to give it abstract thought and perceive the universe, we have much to thank solar The Sun may have given you a mind to think to fill that mind are sadly not just beamed down Fortunately, there's a free and easy way to physics and other STEM subjects, thanks to Brilliant is an online learning platform to different skill levels, with more added always feel a sense of achievement when I finish found in the course Astrophysics helps Perfect, if you're trying to figure out the If you're looking to shine a little more light follow my link in the description below and give and the first 200 of you will get 20% off Thanks for watching! Want to learn more Check out this playlist here. A big thanks If you want your name proudly placed at check the links below. All the