The Valkyrie was the fastest and largest nuclear mission at a staggering Mach 3. LA in a little more than an hour. many innovations which pushed the boundaries But its history was cut short and One of these was destroyed in a tragic mid-air A central factor in this mid-air Let's take a closer look at this fascinating Aircraft disturb the air they pass through. This wingtip vortex is but they are a small part of a much bigger wake. Even something as light as a These mesmerizing visuals illustrate The plane stays up by pushing the air downwards. The pressure tries to equalize by curling around the tips of the It is remarkable how the air is churned Thanks to Elliot Seguin and Nick Schrader for Just imagine the immense wake being churned up by the Valkyrie bomber. Wake turbulence can be dangerous and violent. It A lot of fuel is wasted There is an unavoidable energy penalty. It is the price wings pay to produce the lift to stay aloft. Short stubby wings generate the largest vortex. On the other extreme gliders achieve the smallest The longer the wing the smaller the In this way gliders eke out every The outside of the tip vortex rotates up. Birds fly with less effort if they tuck their wing into the upwash generated by the bird in front. Each bird passes the benefit on to the next. Before we get to the accident let us look The Valkyrie was a cutting-edge Their previous designs included The Korean War Sabre and the X-15 rocket plane. In 1957 a contract was awarded with the Its mission was to deliver a nuclear But rapid advancements in missile technology meant the XB-70 was already obsolete before its first flight. The plan was to make it immune from Soviet defenses by flying too fast and too high. However intercontinental ballistic missiles would deliver nuclear weapons faster And the Soviets developed missiles that And so by 1961 the XB-70 Instead of cancelling the project outright flight test data for use in the design of The first prototype flew in 1964. The second prototype was In an attempt to salvage the project alternate These included a space vehicle launch But none of these ideas were realized. decide to ban commercial supersonic flights over This aircraft had multiple innovative They were lowered so the pilot and raised when supersonic for streamlining. It's wing tips folded in flight. When lowered they harnessed compression lift directional stability when flying at Mach 3. which allowed for the finer control A photo-shoot was requested by General Electric The number two prototype was the they were filmed for promotional material. encouraged into a tight formation by the The formation flew for 40 minutes in a Chief test pilot Al White and Colonel Joe Cotton piloted the first flight of both the two prototypes. They were a regular crew of the XB-70. On this day Al White was piloting For co-pilot Carl Cross this was his first flight in the bomber. Joe Cotton was flying as observer on the left of the formation in the passenger seat of the T-38. Cotton took the role of directing the formation. As the accident unfolded he gave Al White The other aircraft involved in It was flown by Joe Walker. He He flew alongside the bomber to avoid the A wake forms all along the delta wing starting at the front and growing stronger all the way to the tip. In his position alongside he could not see He could only guess how close the wing was Air traffic control from Edwards Air at much higher altitude and posing no hazard. This radio call came 20 seconds before the collision. Joe walker may have looked up to locate the While momentarily distracted his tail hit The inside wing entered the dirty air of the vortex. It lost lift The stalled wing dropped from the reduced As it slid across the top of the bomber it sheared off most of the fins. The nose of the fighter was sliced off and hit It burst into flames over the wing and went down in a huge fire trail. Walker was killed on impact. The pilot of the Valkyrie heard a loud thump. Joe Cotton called mid-air mid-air. He radioed that the bomber had lost vertical stabilizers. Without its vertical fins and The huge craft flew on straight for 15 to 20 lost part of its left wing. It tumbled and Al White ejected from the bomber it remains a It is likely the fierce g-forces from Or he was incapacitated by the The pilots had specially designed ejection capsules with clamshell doors for protection from the Mach 3 air blast. Before closing the doors the pilot had to retract Al White got his elbow caught in the doors but managed to The capsule had an inflatable cushion underneath to soften but the cushion did not inflate because the clamshell door did not close fully from the elbow. Without the cushion Al white hit the ground very hard with a 32G impact and spent weeks recovering in hospital. Carl cross went down with the huge craft which crashed This accident is routinely blamed on the GE photo-shoot Joe walker was a top notch test pilot He had flown nine chase plane Eight were in the 104. So he was very familiar The photos show he was flying very close to the Valkyrie. Closer than the planes on the left. it seems inconceivable that Joe Walker with his exceptional skill and experience would collide in mid-air like this. The length of the precision formation flying may This required 40 minutes of unbroken focused concentration. Whether he became momentarily distracted while looking up into the sun to locate the b-58 or checking out something on the underbody of the bomber. But why he collided remains a mystery. This was a tragic freak accident which highlighted the dangers of wake turbulence. The learjet used by the camera crew belonged to This accident killed two top pilots and denied aviation further valuable flight test data from a highly innovative aircraft. The surviving XB-70 can be seen in I hope to see you in my next video.