Gravity. It's what keeps us held to the sense of up and down. When we venture other world, the force of gravity precisely The sudden and stark absence of any weightlessness. Your body has literally stomach-churning free-fall. Most humans unpleasant hours, but many biological gravity here on the Earth. the muscles used for are no longer used and thus atrophy week. Astronauts on the International least two hours every day to combat this bones also wither with astronauts losing The breakdown of bone within our body to dangerous calcification of soft years or decades without severe medical some form of artificial gravity is going artificial gravity is ubiquitous, mostly explanation for this is usually fictional technology. The simplest way to create artificial accelerate in a straight line. If you just moving but accelerating at 1g, your to motion - causes you to be pushed force as that which the Earth pulls you In fact, Einstein postulated that the experiment you could possibly do on to distinguish between being in a accelerating. In other words, inertial something famously known as the relativity. This sounds promising, or decades would require engines with any modern space vehicle. The N star ion we've ever built of such an engine. Vesta and Ceres used three xenon ion record-breaking constant acceleration of an impressive technological feat but it artificial gravity. Is there any other The only other proven physics to do this you feel yourself pulled to the opposite that's the centrifugal force. Another hard turn causing a centrifugal force several G, so strong in fact that it can are what physicists call fictional. acceleration, they are just the products of like electromagnetism, for example. Your unless acted upon by a force and so if side you will not because of inertia, and wall. But what if the wall wasn't a wall, merry-go-round and spin it fast enough against the interior wall. If you did this forces acting, that centrifugal force could stand on the wall, feeling the same idea of a spinning habitat in space is humanity might mimic gravity. It's an old such as Rendezvous with Rama, Babylon 5, quite a few different proposed concepts physics but today we'll focus on two most influential - the O'Neill Cylinder We'll start with a cylinder concept, O'Neill in his 1976 book, called The High laid out a strategy for the colonization mining, which included the construction cylinder with a length of up to 20 miles. serve as the floor for the inhabitants livable area - this is about the same land wasn't afraid to dream big people with a total mass of several thousand dollars per kilo to launch into mass of the cylinder would cost about a launch costs alone. That's about a more realistic plan would be to build lunar or asteroid mining facilities, which industries exist firs. Even so, a would be so expensive that likely only could afford to live above the clouds. quite different on board. Tilt your head the cylinder and even see your you. Air pressure and gravity might be order to save upon the cost of spinning for the walls. And the artificial gravity your altitude, as you ascend towards the the gravity would drop off until perhaps giving you the chance to enjoy Stanford Torus was the product of a NASA Stanford University in 1975 around about book on the cylinder concept, indeed Stanford study too. &quot;This is torus the of these teams of scientists and colony could be built before the year structure to give the artificial gravity Unlike the cylinder only about 1/2 of This could be seen as an advantage since natural-looking sky, rather than a imposes. The diameter of the torus is not about one kilometer with an inner tube This gives a living area of about one certainly far smaller than that of the materials, coming in at about 100 times Compared to the O'Neill Cylinder, this would decrease the overall cast by an order of magnitude, but it would raise the cost Living on board one might enjoy joking a staring out to the warped horizon at need supplies you might venture down the experiences far weaker centrifugal manufacturing or easy docking with look at these designs they sadly remain their inception in the 1970s. Although reduced launch casts that sheer size of beyond our economic capabilities, or foreseeable future. So why are both of a much smaller rotating structure today, demonstrate a working example of issue of shape, cylinder or torus, an can control in designing a centrifugal the rate of rotation, omega, and the reduced costs, possible since surface area, and thus this term. As we make R smaller we need recreate the required gravity. This is equals R multiplied by omega squared, thus 4 times smaller in diameter requires a the effect on human occupants rapid spin they make docking with the station more enter and exit the rotational frame. This in reduced gravity, perhaps equal to that Harris et at have shown that G, make it difficult for humans to have a so this is likely to be a good lower 1G is generally uncomfortable for humans example - so putting these together gives possible combinations of R and omega. reduces the costs it also diminishes the onboard. Clearly, radii a less than choice causing the inhabitants to downward force in their heads but strong experience a tidal force of 1G. There acceleration humans find comfortable but magnitude less tidal acceleration than be at least 17 meters for average human A 17 meter radius habitat rotating a Earth-like gravity if the occupants were movement inside and they would feel an here on the Earth - the Coriolis effect. not the same as that of linear that linear acceleration is acceleration but this is not true for a There is no equivalence principle here or Stanford Torus, could indeed design acceleration felt by a crew equals the centripetal acceleration upon the crew, acceleration and that last titerm there is linearly accelerating then we just have perfectly stationary r dot, which is indeed experience a perfect reproduction direction perpendicular to the rotation cause this second term to depart from acceleration normal to both of those That's the Coriolis effect. Like the centrifugal force, this is what force - purely a product of living in a Imagine a cannonball floating around the Let's give it a slight push so it starts cylinder. If we were watching this happen a window say, it would seem to travel in perfect sense. But now consider the same on the inner surface of the cylinder not travel in a straight line but rather rotating frame of reference though, and effect. This effect even plays out here its spinning atmosphere or affecting the merry-go-round. The Coriolis effect the inhabitants of a rotating cylinder apparent change in downward surface will, and the second is a tipping effect The direction of the Coriolis which you move and the direction of the fixed. More specifically, the Coriolis your velocity vector and the habitat's pushes in a direction perpendicular to Well consider inside the habitat you have you move along the same direction as the effect at all. So traveling hundreds of to the other is perfectly safe. For the walking to either side of the torus has zero Coriolis. This leaves us with experience Coriolis - one radial and one probably the least concerning and leads gravity. For example, if you walk along you effectively increase your overall into the floor and making you feel opposite and causes you to lose weight. In the case of the Stanford torus, this along the three mile circumference Now if we want to downsize these designs surface gravity is comfortable. Research subjects show that people are not even acceleration less than about 5% of less well studied but certainly for a 1G start to become uncomfortable, based on we take this as a maximum threshold, it leads to the following modified comfort zone when choosing R and omega. With motion along the rotational axis finally turn to the issue of radial indeed any centrifugal system for act of jumping up and down or different decks. During these actions centripetal force itself, but by far the occupants would be a tipping effect Dr Theodore Hall developed a nice way to throwing a ball vertically rather than the side. In extreme cases, one can even front as it whips around due to the the effect of creating a perceived motion. A strong enough tip could cause climbing ladders. A simple way to deal no ladders or staircases. Of course inclusion of multiple decks, here then for ascent and descent could be designed would likely need to be trained to stand inclines of an 8% grade or higher would here on Earth. If astronauts stand up no place the following limit in our design further constrains our allowed comfort Coriolis isn't just a problem for affects your balance even by turning this the inertia of the vestibular fluid delay between the motion of your head then pushed back into place by pressure within the ear. spacecraft moving your head in one downward force versus the other. That of fluid inside the semicircular canals. our vestibular system and create a sense also undergoes a small amount of to one side by the tipping Coriolis how fast a rotation can we cope with occupants experience nausea. In most these effects of the Coriolis on the sickness - which most strongly constrain usually cite experiments on human slowly rotating rooms. A variety of rates below one or two revolutions per complex tasks over prolonged periods. But days to adapt and beyond six rpm, people guided the design of the Stanford torus per minute in order to avoid canal centrifugal force at just one rpm kilometer. Using this one rpm or slower zone is greatly diminished and now it rotational habitats need to be so vast remember that these experiments do not station because they cannot remove the chamber is oriented such that the spin gravitational field lines the rotation centripetal force is small and your gravity - not the centrifuge itself. This accommodate the Earth's gravity, means perpendicular directions to that spacecraft. So imagine walking around the side both of which are lateral motions. accelerations act up and down during apparent strength of gravity. In contrast those same movements lead to a tipping you over to one side. exact set up finds that at 10 rpm even adapt. At this rotation rate, walking Coriolis acceleration of 0.3 G, making percent grade slope. What's more if the down or stand up sharply, they would feel is oriented with the centrifuges contrast to the case of a rotational Earth-based rotation chamber experiments than that experienced by our prospective very different environment. body should not result in tipping forces in these types of experiments. This is and vertical accelerations higher sensitivity to horizontal these slow rotation room experiments are limit of 6 rpm may be overly because if humans can tolerate Coriolis rpm or higher then Coriolis forces no and much smaller feasible artificial these reasons let's be optimistic and with 6 rpm environments which gives us Let us finally turn to the question of cylinder or torus could there be astronaut comfort levels at small astronauts move along the rotational accordingly one might be tempted to a tether connected to a counterweight. As pushed to the floor in their quasi Such a design aims to provide the least Coriolis is not the only thing we need environment. If this train were too long longer the primary axis of rotation but Rotation about such an axis is unstable demonstrated on board the ISS with this motion the occupants would be thrown unacceptable manner. Tumbling can also has two principal axes of rotation - one here in blue and another perpendicular rotates his cylinder about the blue axis principal axis of rotation. Any slight inside the cylinder such as people tumbling due to the rotational pumping water around the cylinder to thrusters or reaction wheels to correct second cylinder next door which counter actually the idea that O'Neill originally for the Stanford torus, things are much now around the primary axis and thus the Could we see a demonstration of near term? The ISS offers perhaps our space experiments. In 2011, Mark Holdeman demonstration of a centrifuge as part of called Nautilus X. A small rotating torus partial gravity at an estimated cost of went no further than the initial 2005 Kirk Sorensen argued that the attached to a more massive counterweight to recreate artificial gravity in the that by making the tether retractable at will much like how an ice skater can rate of spin. The habitat itself could hab concept with several decks and a gravity. This is about where things stand artificial gravity experiment on the space environments will at some point through engineering or biological the two. Let me know down below what kind simulate gravity and whether you think other space agencies in the near future. this slightly different video from us Let me know if you like these styles of watching, stay thoughtful and stay