This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch an exclusive companion video to this bundle deal at CuriosityStream.com/Wendover. Ten years ago, in May 2011, Adele's Rolling the first season of Games of Thrones was on Osama Bin Laden had just been killed by US Committee was sending letters to National the 32nd running of the Summer Olympic Games. This moment marked the start of a decade long up to a mere 16 days of international sporting Step two was this: one month later, the governor to submit a bid--in large part to mark their that had devastated the country mere months Soon enough, Madrid, Istanbul, Baku, and Doha after a two year evaluation process, a contract Committee, the Japanese Olympic committee, would host the 2020 Summer Olympic Games. For an event of this scale--tens of thousands of television viewers--a mere seven year no time to waste. The most watched television broadcast in existence to be constructed; dozens of stadiums and and one of the world's largest cities needs weeks of its existence. To complete this task, Tokyo was given this: document. Across its 273 pages, this outlines, in incredible or IOC, requires from its contractual partner, and, crucially, consistently with all past Its essentially the bible for Olympic organizers. The 2015 edition, made for the 2020 Games--now minuscule details. For example, Tokyo had to install weather venues three years prior to the start of the be used by the IOC to inform their scheduling The document also establishes some basic but that the Olympics will last 16 days, except that, subject to IOC approval, can be held It also, in a matter of mere paragraphs, outlines to book 41,177 hotel rooms for the media, IOC executives, National Olympic Committee representatives, and more. This is equivalent to close to half of all the accommodation requirements for those actually spectating. The hotel capacity crunch was such an issue, international spectators due to the Coronavirus ships in Tokyo Bay to serve as additional, Athletes, however, do not stay in hotels. Since the 1932 Los Angeles Games, each host to house athletes--far away from the crowds Now, the IOC's operational requirements most part, the 2012 village is just like the For example, it has to be within 50 kilometers, so, if any event takes place further from is constructed. This is especially relevant for the Winter within the main host city, but outdoor events For example, in the case of the 2014 games, while an additional one was set up at the took place. For the summer games in Tokyo, however, just Requirements dictated that it must have the at the scale of a small town. The requirements also dictate that rooms must in size, or 129 square feet or 12 square meters required contents. In addition, the village must have an Olympics salon, florist, dry cleaning shop, travel Typically, McDonalds also sets up a temporary is like any McDonalds except that its menu with food for free in exchange for the publicity Lastly, according to the operational requirements place of mourning. Now, constructing brand new dedicated venues, 16-day event quite obviously presents problems. While in decades past cities were essentially Games--and sometimes run at hundreds of percents they attracted was invaluable, taxpayers, skeptical of the value that the Games truly There are plenty of horror stories of places whose village now sits derelict and is inhabited of money from the perspective of the city There are also, however, cases like that of into a true neighborhood. It's now home to upscale hotels, restaurants, events both large and small each year. Altogether, having seen the horror stories, for cities. In decades past, plenty of cities would bid like Paris 2024 or Los Angeles 2028 where default--having faced zero competition in For those that do host the games, though, and they're now trying to craft their venue than Turin. In Tokyo, three categories of Olympic venues The first is temporary. With certain events, such as canoeing, climbing, prospect that the city can redevelop the venue so they either set up spectator and media that just lack the scale to host an Olympic venue. For more popular sports that require less using pre-existing venues around the city. For example, with Table Tennis, which requires Gymnasium is being used--just as it was during With certain events, however, the Tokyo organizers a brand new venue. Swimming and diving events, for example, will Center. This is often the case at summer games. Swimming and diving are typically some of mediocre popularity as a spectator sport outside That means cities often lack aquatics venues so this is one of the venues more often built At the 2016 Rio de Janeiro games, a temporary 2012, Beijing 2008, Sydney 2000, and plenty Now, with each of these new, permanent venues, Tokyo 2020 Preparation had to justify their and public. Therefore, they released this document. It outlines the core of their development venues, but an appealing neighborhood, certainly they can consider any money spent an investment, With each of these new venues, such as the they're published a detailed post-games Through redeveloping the venue into both a recreation center, the Bureau believes they the games, and while they project the facility be comparable with other similar public recreation the Olympics. Some of the other venues, such as the Ariake to turn a profit after the games so, altogether, won't be a long-term financial burden to Now, of course, like with anything regarding follow a sprawling set of strict standards. For example, they each need to have the Olympics Federation flag flying in a conspicuous spot. They need to have a full backup power system and security operations, while their lighting independent power supplies for each so that In terms of the actual sporting facilities, of the respective IOC-recognized International For example, Olympic rowing is managed by recommends 531 feet or 162 meters of course feet of length. Their standards get plenty more specific, course buoy system; outline where advertising and operation of timing huts; and much, much Each Olympic event is essentially the pinnacle are heavily involved. Of course, the Olympics are a made-for-television While millions of spectators do typically on TV. In fact, 73% of the Olympics total revenue They simply would not happen in their modern so perhaps the most important facility of In Tokyo, this facility is constructed in convention center--and is run by the Olympics Now, for the longest time, broadcasting operations Committee would contract out to a third party, OBS was established to act as the host broadcaster Now, like with most large sporting events, and all the other national broadcasters that That's because OBS is responsible for filming produced feeds to each broadcaster, who acts While NBC, for example, might have reporters OBS feeds, they don't actually film the Now, OBS is a standalone, independent company functions. While typically it has some 166 employees, comprised of the operational staff filming Its ultimate task in Tokyo is to create 9,500 Olympic Games. To accomplish this, it has deployed some 1,049 42 venues. These are cut together into produced "World at each venue before being delivered to here: From one month before the games until its much like the Olympics Village, operates like bars, a medical center, bank, convenience Many of OBS' facilities at the International of taking the World Feeds, of which as many of day two of the games, and disseminating broadcasters around the world. However, in addition to television production, act as workspace for all the journalists from Games. During the Olympics, one of OBS' main functions They manage the International Broadcast Center to serve as their workspaces. A private office in the center comes in units in the case of Tokyo, costs some $5,011 per Of course, though, there are plenty of upcharges. Even once a broadcaster has paid to rent a $876, and the OBS rate card even includes Meanwhile, getting a dedicated 100 Mbps ethernet the free wifi, costs broadcasters $19,044. OBS also sells broadcasters a digital data schedules, medals, records, news, biographies, This is what ultimately gets repackaged into, see on the NBC or the BBC websites. Finally, OBS' rate card includes options with a printer for $356, a walkie talkie for for $105, and electric kettle for $23. With 6,000 accredited journalists awarded to manage them as the athletes and, while sports writer might seem like a trivial task, doing so plays a tiny but present part in Now, ultimately, while there are plenty of there are few small ones. For the most part, the host cities' jobs set of instructions. The spend the better part of a decade doing 2020 Games is to make an event that's just the Games of 2016, 2012, 2008, or any year The goal is consistency, and therefore the That doesn't mean it's straightforward, Every page of this document represents an might become an individual's job for years--and the tasks as small as placing the right flag an entirely new stadium, is what makes for As anyone knows by now, the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Of course, taking one of the world's largest before, after a decade of preparation, is I didn't have time to cover that in this companion video about the subject and put Nebula, of course, is always home to our normal videos such as this, and big-budget Nebula tons of your favorite educational creators Ellis. Of course, what makes Nebula even better is bundle deal. That's because CuriosityStream is home to shows and documentaries, such as The Tulip This is a really well-made documentary about time when tulip bulbs were sold quite literally market surrounding them demonstrated one of So, you can get Nebula and CuriosityStream that you'll actually watch, for an unbelievable sale at CuriosityStream.com/Wendover. That truly has to be the best deal in streaming, but all these independent creators, so head