(knocking) - You Jimmy? Dirk Hurdstrom's boy? - Is- - You alone, Jimmy? I'll take that as a yes. (taser buzzing) You're a two time loser, Jimmy. One more felony and they You know what? You might do all right in - You're either a servant and I ain't no fucking servant. - [Rip] Nah, no, no. You're a thief. - What the fuck, man? What the fuck, man? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! Fucking psycho, wait! - [Rip] Jimmy, I'm gonna One is I take you and all this shit and I drive you down and it's good riddance to your sorry ass, or you prove that you From what I can see, you - You're with the Yellowstone? - It's getting cold, Jimmy. You know what? Fuck it, I'm gonna take Get up. - Why would John Dutton - He doesn't, but he will. Hey Jimmy, go ahead and put that down. - [Jimmy] Look, I don't - Well, you're getting - Should I pet him? - I don't think it's gonna - [John] You got it on your side? - [Rip] Yeah, I'm good. You pull this so you don't All right? He's gonna hate you for shit, don't you let go. - But can we just, can we - Good luck, Jimmy. - 20 on the horse. - I got 40 on the ball. - I'd expect some resistance. - Define resistance. - [John] You be quiet. Resistance is the kind of thing Let's go. Kick him. (horse neighing) (Jimmy shouting) (horse neighing) - God damn, that thing's a freight train. (horse neighing) - Woo wee, I don't miss being low man. - Low man's what turned you into cowboys. It'll make him one too. (Jimmy shouting) - Well, it's an even bet who quits first. - Yeah, that boy quit hours ago. If we didn't strap him in the saddle, - Yeah, he'll be a cowboy before sun down. - He's just a favor, Rip, and I'm afraid that's all he'll ever be. - Excuse me, sir. Would you mind helping me? Fuck you, old man. - Asshole. - Look at this, look at this. Jimmy. - Hey Ray, hey Blake. - Where the fuck you been? - Just working. - Working? - Yeah, I work at the Yellowstone. - The Yellowstone. - Can't ride no fucking horse. - Can now. - Good, you can pay me the Better yet, you can go on a That's right, you don't need a list. You know exactly what to get. Nice hat. - Dip-shit. (suspenseful music) (cart rolling) (suspenseful music) (suspenseful music) (suspenseful music) - Go back inside. - Fuck you. - Jimmy, go back inside! Fucker. (thud) - Fuck you! (suspenseful music) - What happened to you? - We gotta go. (suspenseful music) Drive. Drive. (glass crashing) (grunting) - Get out here! - Oh fuck! (overlapping shouting) - Jimmy, close your eyes. (spray spraying) (shouting) - What the fuck? - You're welcome! - Go, go, go, go, go! (tires screeching) Fuck, why did you do that? Are you crazy? (Blake coughing) - Aw fuck. (grunting) - He's fucking dead. - What the fuck? - How much do you owe? How much, Jimmy? - Around 8,000. - I ain't got it. I know you don't. - Yeah, I'll get it. - They said a week or I get this again. - I'll get it. (suspenseful music) - 'Cause of what we did, they beat him? - No, they beat him for what I did. (suspenseful music) Hey, I gotta ask you something. Is there any extra work Just gotta make some money. - You can do all the extra work but you ain't going to get paid for it. You're on salary. - Wait, so there's nothing I can do? - When a cowboy needs - Wins it how? - Bronc riding, roping, All the shit we do every day, but you can barely do it as it is so you ain't gonna win no money at it. - 111, you ready? - Come on, you ready Jimmy? - I need a minute. - You ain't got a minute. Now look at that cowboy and give him a nod. (gate rattling) (upbeat rock music) (upbeat rock music) (crowd cheering) - What just happened? - [Announcer] An 83 for Jimmy Hurdstrom. - [Cowboy] Hey, you just won, cowboy. - So what, what do I do now? - Wave to the crowd and throw that hat. (crowd murmuring) (crowd cheering) (Jimmy shouting) - Hell of a ride. Let's get you paid. (subtle music) (subtle music) - What's wrong? - Not a thing. (subtle music) (muffled rock music) - Can we send him for cigarettes? - You up for a store run, Jimmy? - Where's Ray? Smells like your new cook doesn't know what the fuck he's doing. - I'm the new cook and I quitter. Well, where is it? Jesus, Jimmy. I didn't know goat fucking paid so well. - We're done. Leave my grandfather alone. - Look whose balls finally dropped. We're square on the money, Jimmy, but your bitch still owes me for that little bear spray stunt. Another grand and she's off the hook. - I just gave you all the money I have. - That looks like it's worth something. (suspenseful music) (footsteps tapping) - Commander, he's up at the house. - I'm not here to see John. Looking for Jimmy Hurdstrom. - What's he being charged with? - Not being charged with anything. Jimmy. (suspenseful music) It's bad news. We found your grandfather this morning. - Found him, what do you mean? - Well, it seems he'd and it appears a blood vessel in his brain ruptured as a result and he Now, were you aware of this assault? You know anyone who'd want to hurt him? You have a disagreement with anyone? Well, you think of You'll need to go to the coroner's office and sign some paperwork. I'm sorry for your loss. - What happened? - They killed him. I paid and they still killed him. - What? - I fucking paid and they (muffled rock music) (drill whirring) You can't bring me down Bring me down You can't bring me down Bring me down You can't bring me down Bring me down You can't bring me down You can't bring me down You can't bring me down (upbeat rock music) (fire hissing) You can't bring me down - Jimmy, what are you doing? - Hey, Jimmy. Get the fuck off the balcony. - Jimmy. You can't bring me down Won't bring me down You can't bring me down Bring me down You can't bring me down (muffled rock music) - Jimmy just went fucking inside. (subtle rock music) (subtle rock music) - Jimmy? (grunting) - You don't get to sleep through this. (suspenseful music) (thud) - [Rip] Jimmy, let's go! (suspenseful music) Get the fuck off the Back the fuck up. (gun firing) - Son of a bitch! (house exploding) (fire blaring) - Jesus, Jimmy, you okay? - [Rip] Jimmy? Hey, what the fuck is wrong with you? - It's mine, I won it! I won it. - [Rip] You gotta be You risked your life for Lloyd, get him in the truck. - Let's go, Jimmy! - No, no, no, no! (crowd shouting) (horse neighing) (crowd moaning) (intense music) (sirens blaring) (intense music) (subtle country music) - Every road from the - What day is it? - Well, it's payday for the hospital. They won the lottery with you. I had to write all this shit down. You have a compression and two in your back. Bone fragments pressed against your spine can't figure out how to get that out. Shattered your hip, which Doctor said you're the youngest person he's ever done that to, so He wants you up and walking today. How that's possible, I You have a grade three concussion. We're supposed to bring if you experience nausea or confusion. I asked if there's other symptoms since nauseous and confused is They said your eyes might dilate, so we'll be on the lookout for that. - What's wrong with my arm? - Well, they didn't mention - It doesn't look fine. - [John] Yeah well, compared it's fine. - How am I gonna, how am - Well, the hospital's pretty Look at me. Hospital bill's not a concern, but you gotta make me a promise. No more rodeo. - It's the only thing that ever, ever made me feel like - Yeah well, I figured as much. Learn to rope, all and you got two of those. - Mr. Dutton, uh, thank you. - Yeah well, learn to rope, Jimmy. I'm not paying for this shit twice. (grunting) - You don't like that, huh? Just gimme a couple good bucks. I'll let it loose, huh? Come on. (intense music) (horse neighing) (intense music) (suspenseful music) - [Doctor] I'm really You're making good progress in PT. I think we've reached that point, Jimmy. - What point? - Your movement must be You can go to the bathroom. You can walk from one room to the next, but any physical exertion and that thoracic brace Two most dangerous places for you, the stairs and the bathroom. A slip in the shower, we are right back to square - [Mia] We got it. - Discharge should take a couple of hours. Oh, I let the ranch know in the hopes they could arrange The bunkhouse already has one. That's how dangerous your job is. You need to think about that. - [Jimmy] Wait, you called the ranch? Who'd you talk to, what'd they say? - Said they were sending a car. - Well, he sure got - No, I'm the lucky one. - No honey, ya aren't. Can you give us a minute? How do you feel? - It's weird. I don't have any feeling but they still hurt. I don't know how I can't feel 'em and they hurt at the same time, you know? - [John] My grandfather lost his leg. He said the worst pain he ever felt was in his toes after his leg was gone. Phantom pain, they call it. - Yeah, I guess that's what I got. - You broke your word to me, Jimmy. - Yeah, I'm sorry. - You broke your word. - I'm sorry, sir. - Tell you what? You know, I'm so, I'm so god I told you this would happen - Please don't fire me, sir. All right, I could still be useful. There's all sorts of- - How? How can you be useful? You can't ride, you can't lift anything, but in a few months you will and you think you have and you'll do it again and - Please. - Please. - Mr. Dutton, please. - Please what? What do you think I'm gonna I made a promise to your grandfather, and unlike you, I keep my word, but I'm done trying to make I'm leaving that to someone else. - Who? - [John] It's the last You screw this up, you're on your own. - Let's get you packed up, Jimmy. - Well, where am I going? - Well, Travis is pulling You're going with him. - Where? - Where cowboy-ing was invented. If those boys can't make one outta you, you aren't meant to be one. I'm sorry, Jimmy. Wasn't my decision. - I'm Emily, by the way. - Jimmy. - Probably shoulda Masterbating stallions sort of puts us on a first name basis. - Yeah, at the very least. - So you got a girlfriend? - Uh. - Look, you're one of six under 30. I dated two of them and the other thought I'd make my move before you go on and get all scooped up. - Well, aside from the you are the first person I've seen in, I actually don't know so I think my chances of getting - Let me buy you dinner. - No, I can't let you buy you dinner. - You got a girlfriend? - I, I don't know. - Let me buy you dinner. - No, I can't. - All right. - But uh, I could buy you dinner. - All right. (subtle country music) You weren't supposed to be here yet. (subtle romantic music) Don't look too happy to see me. - The 6666s is sending me back to Montana. My contract's up. - If it's up, they Just try the Pitchfork. Hell, it's next door. - I love how 30 miles I owe him. John Dutton, I gave him my word. - I respect that. Hate hearing it, but I respect it. Man, life refuses to play fair. - Hasn't played fair with me yet. - Me neither. Well, I better rip this (subtle romantic music) Bye, Jimmy. - [Ryan] You'd have a point - [Colby] Technically we if we sold beef. - [Jake] Hey. - [Colby] Well, well, well. - Look who it is. - [Jimmy] How y'all doing? - Everyone's great here, Jimmy. Everyone except for Ryan. - [Ryan] Fuck you. - [Colby] Oh, you can always - You can see things haven't changed here. Pull up a chair. - Actually, I'm gonna need two chairs. - [Colby] Why? - Oh. - Oh. - Oh, that's gonna go over - Everyone, this is Emily. She's a vet down the - Oh shit. - So you drove up here - Yes, sir. My fiance will drive it - Fiance? - Yes, sir. - Huh, and now the and you're not going with her? - I'm gonna work off what I owe - So the wedding's gonna (John chuckling) - I broke my word to you once, almost did it again to stay with her. No, I'm gonna pay you what I owe. - Texas was good for you. - Yes, sir, I think it was. - The only person you You don't owe me a thing. - Thank you, sir. - No matter what you you'll always have a place right here. (uplifting music) (subtle country music) - Safe travels, brother. - See you around, Jake. - Yes, sir. It was my pleasure to meet you, just don't ever hit me like you hit her. - Pleasure is mine. - See you around, Jimmy. - See you. - Now listen, when you get back to Texas, y'all start making fucking babies. Have yourself a hell of a life, okay? - Do you understand a word - Something about our taxes. - Come here. - Actually, I'm gonna at your mom's house. (laughing) (laughing) See you around, Walker. - You right about that chili. No beans in that shit. Big ole howdy to them - Yes, sir. Ma'am. (subtle music) - Come here, Jimmy. I want you to know you always - Yes, sir, I do. - Hey, proud of you. - Thank you. - Jimmy, cowboys don't say goodbye. They say see you later until We'll say our goodbyes then. Got a long drive. Come on, get outta here, let's go. (subtle music) (engine revving) (truck rattling) How far train cars can travel How far a man can go before So won't you pray for me tonight (yelping) I've been heading down a dark, cold road And I've been dreaming of a Hoping I can find myself back home (uplifting music) (subtle country music) - You done yet? - No, we gotta work the two year olds. Be home around six. - All right. What you want for supper? - [Jimmy] Thinking maybe the same thing I had for breakfast. - Baby, that's dessert. Gotta have supper first. You're gonna wither away from loving me. - Well, it's not a bad way to go. - All right, I'll see you at six. - Thank you. - Don't litter, baby. - I'll grab 'em when we go in. - You say that every day and now there's a whole pile A little bottle cap mountain. - I'm happy. - You should be. I hope you're buying lottery - All right, that's it. - What you gonna do? - Oh, dumb question. - No, no, no, that is out of bounds. Stop it, no. - You are not in a position to negotiate. - No! Okay, okay, okay, okay.