Deep in tropical jungles ruled by beautiful and deadly masters. They're sort of the high elves talented architects that But they are also fierce and their kingdoms are ensnared 'Oecophylla Weaver Ants' [Intro music] Oecophylla weavers walk on long legs, have slender bodies, and large eyes, which make them look pretty cute. Although, their strong mandibles also make them pretty good at killing. But more on that later. Their colonies usually have that vary dramatically in size: majors, minors, and sometimes Depending on location and species, they vary in color from dark Other than their fancy looks, is that they're in the They like to build at starting in shrubs a few and up to 10 meters in the tree canopy. But, they're not satisfied Weavers will look for twigs or lianas and expand to every plant they can reach. This way, colonies spread upwards The largest weaver ant occupy up to 1,600 square meters, around four basketball courts, a lot of ground to cover for tiny ants, and impossibly hard to control. So, weaver ants construct dozens of outposts to defend the kingdom, tubes or balls made from leaves, These masterpieces are created by the weaver majors, the larger worker ants, which are like fighting, foraging, To start a new nest, a major tries to bend different leaves If one of the leaves is flexible enough, Chains of workers pull or reach across gaps and grab distant While the bending and pulling is going on, other workers carry larvae from the Usually, ant larvae spin themselves But the weaver ant larvae give all of their So, when the workers tap the they release their sticky thread This way, the workers sew the bent leaf This creates a central chamber, that's used as the basis for up to 300 Together, they form little pockets and act To make it even more cozy, minor workers use the larvae to weave Nests are usually constructed as or as storage for brood and food supplies. This way, the ants don't need to cross but have soldiers close to Apart from one special nest which is reserved for the Here, she produces which get transferred to suitable So, a colony is a network connected by suspension bridges An established colony easily has half a Fortunately, weaver ants and beneficial relationships shrubs and trees. The tree gives the ants a home But maybe even more importantly, like aphids or caterpillars, that This would usually hurt a tree, but these insects belong Only a few selected neighbours and the Many other insects, and even or even killed and eaten. So in most cases, the tree only has to while being protected from The weaver ant kingdom could be an mostly from other kingdoms. Just like medieval humans, every queen seeks to conquer others Controlling fertile land is the And if a kingdom loses too much of it, it So expanding and defending their borders When a kingdom invades another, it first gathers an army of who make their way towards The goal is to steal a bit of Defending weaver patrols and immediately release Some rush to the front to defend, while others rush to the marking their route with pheromones. Whenever they meet other sisters, they jerk their bodies as if in a fight, to signal them to follow the At the site of battle, majors from circle each other with and try to seize their opponents. If an ant gets a hold of her opponent, the victim is pulled into a group of The ants then rip the victim apart, clipping off antennae and legs, and slicing open their abdomens. To slow down the advance of the attackers, the defending majors squirt to chemically burn their targets. This is soon answered in the In the chaotic battle, both parties lose countless fighters After a few minutes, the backup and the time window for a This is when the battle turns. The defenders slowly push In the end, the attackers can't For both parties, it was a costly battle. Thousands of corpses lie piled up and many ants are severely injured. The defending colony's nests The attackers' attempt to steal ...for today. They'll try again soon. But the kingdom will be ready. For the high ants of war is nothing special. It's just a fact of life. Because as we know, empires And the weaver ants are ready to fight. *quack* [Outro music]