Welcome to another installment of the full-length Today, we're delving into one of the most history - the English Civil War also known This tumultuous conflict, which raged across deep-seated religious strife, and a web of apart, from the blood-soaked fields of Edgehill epic showdowns at Marston Moor to the siege It was a war that pitted brother against brother, for their vision of England's future. The battle lines were often drawn along religious already heated struggle, but the English Civil social and political powder keg waiting to The monarchy, led by King Charles I Stuart, and taxation. This political turmoil set the stage for a reshape England forever. Join us as we unravel the dramatic and complex its battles, religious strife, and political history. Don't forget to hit that subscribe button As brother turns against brother, it might Easier to do back when every step you take in the world - well, perhaps you know how VPN, such as our sponsor for this video NordVPN, dot com slash kings and generals. NordVPN gives you the luxury of network security. If you make a wrong turn, NordVPN will turn in cyberspace can pick your pockets, so to Trackers can't track you, advertisers can't your invisible defences - that's the security only putting yourself as risk by carrying And of course, a VPN means a customisable internet, not only the parts region locked Now for that offer: by using our exclusive you get four bonus months added on top of There's a thirty day risk free money back decide against it, so there's no harm in Get that offer and secure your link to the generals. The Stuart dynasty came to power in England 24th 1603, and was succeeded by King of Scotland, England. This reign united the realms of England, Scotland, time, and saw an increase in the popularity of a monarch to rule as he wished, unhindered After 22 years on the throne, during which Mayflower and Guy Fawkes' Gunpowder Plot and was succeeded by his second son, who ascended man with a penchant for hunting, it immediately father's enthusiasm for divine right, and influential factions in his country, the most Today, the British Houses of Lords and Commons Kingdom, but in the mid seventeenth-century The king still had executive decision-making by which Parliament could legally convene. However, by the mid 1600s the Houses had gained to raise taxes far more effectively and smoothly English monarchs to operate without parliamentary Upon ascending to the throne in 1625, the Maria, the staunchly Catholic sister of France's While this was at first viewed as a shrewd actions made the predominantly reformed English This religious dimension of the royal-parliamentary both internal and external. In mainland Europe, the Thirty Years' War Many in England and particularly in parliament the Catholic counter-reformation from snuffing would not do so in a direct fashion. The meager attempts in 1625 and 1628 of Charles Rochelle respectively were blundered and only parliament. Even worse than this was the increasing influence who advocated an Anti-Calvinist sect of Protestantism This denomination rolled some Christian practices Church and was viewed as yet another sign the hated Papists. All of these factors gradually ratcheted up In short, it was making England a powder keg. More tangible issues were also at the heart a growing opposition of the propertied classes monarch. The first parliament called by the king in because of that most enduring of issues, taxes. Usually, parliament would grant a new monarch and Poundage' for an entire reign, but for one year. Parliament did grant levels of funding and the past, but that was woefully inadequate costs. With parliament continuously unwilling to raise money by his own means. Money was borrowed with the crown jewels as customs were collected regardless of parliamentary so-called 'forced loans' were imposed Overall, Charles raised over PS250,000, but Many gentlemen refused to pay and were imprisoned, collectors and were similarly jailed by royal Because this method of imprisonment was normally danger, Charles' use of it was viewed as When parliament was summoned again in 1628, the Petition of Right, a document which set would be absolutely forbidden from infringing. Amongst other things, primary concerns were tax collection without parliamentary consent. In desperate need of parliamentary approval this document, but it is widely believed that age-old liberties, and was not conceding anything One of the main proponents of the petition John Pym, who would later become a parliamentary Tensions escalated further when, in 1629, was viewed by parliament as an illegal contradiction When the exasperated king ordered parliament Finch, in his chair so that the session could He was held there long enough for resolutions collection of royal duties to be read out, So on March 10th, 1629, Charles I dissolved who had been behind the unrest, inadvertently cry for those who opposed the absolute rule. With the would-be cash cow parliament disbanded, and embarked on a period of sole rule. To his supporters, it was the 'Personal sinister-sounding 'Eleven Years' Tyranny'. There is a general assumption that this decade-long While many occurrences within these twilight of the 1640s and 50s, it was not nearly as In England, Personal rule began quite positively. While hardcore Puritans - radical protestants only half-done, thought that so-called High the common man was not as opposed. Many ordinary people responded quite positively readily embraced William Laud's moderate Even Henrietta Maria became more docile and happy time for the royal family in a personal The queen even gave birth to a child named decades later, would be King of England in Younger Charles' birth was supposedly celebrated that the Stuart dynasty held sovereignty over, It must have been a happy time which the royals Later, as a widow in her native France, Maria years, stating that 'I was the happiest had I every pleasure the heart could desire, In Continental Europe, the situation calmed death of Gustavus Adolphus at Lutzen in 1632. Despite the Swedish king's reputation as ensued in the aftermath of his passing began paranoia felt in English society. Catholic dominance of the Thirty Years' of yet another invasion of the British Isles. With the stalemate, the threat deteriorated all. Meanwhile, Charles proved himself a champion and other aspects of high culture. Overall a Capuchin priest named Father Cyprien 'England is an abundant country, and has life, far removed from the poverty of other As we will see, however, all was not well Despite the queen's increasing contentment, problem for Charles. However much he tried, suspicious Protestant was attempting to use her position to slide The queen's many Catholic attendants who themselves an issue, though not in Charles' The king actually seemed to find the Catholic able to relax in their company. While that may be the case, it is crucial not seem to have been 'going Catholic' made it seem like he was. Specifically, he was tolerant of Catholics he and his new Archbishop of Canterbury saw Upon ascending to that position in 1633, Laud everything worse for almost everyone who didn't In addition to his Pope-lite innovations to Puritans that they were gradually being delivered Laud also repeatedly prosecuted Puritans and of a church by bishops. One trial in 1637 became notorious for its Bastwick, William Prynne, and Henry Burton. They were pilloried for their defiance against already suffered this punishment in 1634, S.L., or 'seditious libeler'. This awful torture didn't have the effect viewed the trio as martyrs. To them, it was becoming clear what was happening. Vile Catholics were being allowed to practice were persecuted. William Laud would soon after cause the spark As the Venetian ambassador said of him: 'This disturb the kingdom'. Despite the largely peaceful and tranquil the need for money had not diminished in the Unwilling to call another parliament to grant were used to raise royal funds and at the Predictably, these clever legal tricks were grabs. The first of these measures was the selling one individual or company, exploiting a loophole Despite raising over PS30,000 per year for else. Merchants excluded by the monopoly were annoyed labourers were annoyed because, under monopolies, products. Most infamous was the soap monopoly. Dubbed 'Popish Soap', this product supposedly because of the Catholic manufacturing board the soul of protestants as well. Charles also began re-introducing obsolete fines on knights, people living in royal forests, areas in London. These fines were originally designed to coerce action, moving out of the forest for example. But Charles did not want the individual to fining them and bringing in the money. While this is a technically legal and clever the spirit of the law and was widely viewed The king's most infamous fundraising measure in its original form in 1634. It essentially served as an emergency financial king to collect money if there was no time Maritime counties would contribute funds for theoretically be used in the defense of those It was a fair system if employed as it was way to make it despised. Supported by the meddlesome Archbishop Laud, to inland areas as well, areas which were a coast. Moreover, the collection of ship money was no true emergency. However, the king got around this by having that it was the king who determined what was So, the king got his money, at first. When the ship money tithe was repeated year to parliament. After all, annual monetary tithes are, in be raised with parliamentary consent, however it was not a tax. Naturally, all of this generated intense resistance actions in 1637 challenging Ship Money gave liberty. It also connected the parliamentary cause Throughout the latter part of his Personal against King Charles I. However, this opposition could not be channeled and infrequent intervals in which parliament Nevertheless, this state of affairs would in Scotland, where the meddling of one Archbishop Scotland's decentralized and radically protestant had deeply ingrained roots in the country's The Scots held onto their native faith lovingly, to impose the Anglican Book of Common Prayer neighbor began to implode. Nationalist sentiment was stoked among all nobles down to the servant girls, one of whom in St Giles Cathedral in Edinburgh when he An organized response came on February 29th, Covenant: a pledge to uphold the native Scottish This covenant pledged loyalty to the king, church was maintained in its unmolested form. This covenant circled around Scotland and its adherents becoming known as 'Covenanters'. Over the next year, attempts at a negotiated As a result, both sides began to raise their than the English, many of whom were actually Critically, this war-footing began to push To further compound matters, many of his aristocratic The First Bishops' War of 1639 was short of Berwick, which both sides realized would So, both the Scots and English began preparing However, Charles' war chest had run dry, up, he was forced on April 13th to summon the first in eleven years. However, after just three weeks of subsequent king dissolved parliament again on May 5th Charles then immediately resumed collection fund his war. The Second Bishops' War of 1640 was a complete A Scottish army of 20,000 Covenanters led to outmaneuver the English, and, not long Following what was the first Scottish victory Northeastern England. As a note, the Earl of Leven, also known as fighting in the Thirty Years' War in the We've previously covered his contribution To end this disastrous conflict, Charles signed that the king pay the Scots PS850 per day Now burdened by this new financial drain in again forced to call a parliament. Holding its first session on November 3rd Parliament', because it would not be formally This time, parliament was almost totally united elements, led by the Earl of Warwick, began His radical allies tried and executed the began lengthy legal proceedings against Archbishop from the Crown. All of these demands and more were set out and conditions, the most crucial of which royal rights and privileges. It didn't seem that Charles was going to anyway, but an external factor now intervened In October of 1641 a Catholic revolt led by Thousands of protestants were already dead that an army would be necessary to quell the But under whose authority would the army be Parliament no longer trusted the king with the army against them, while the king would of the same reason. For some reason, perhaps because Charles had had been conspiring with the Covenanters, 400 soldiers on January 5th 1642. There, he attempted to arrest five MPs: John Holles and William Strode, the ostensible When this attempt embarrassingly failed, the to Windsor Castle, fearing that the parliament-supporting them. From this point forward, King Charles and closer to civil war, with each side unwilling would do so first. Charles was able to convince many of his English of their traditional constitution and Elizabethan the king ought to be deprived of his remaining he could not be trusted to use them. This too attracted many supporters, as did to undertake radical religious reform. In the end, both sides attracted enough support By early 1642, Charles had moved his court Attempting to seize control of the situation their own, parliament unconstitutionally issued them to raise an army and appoint its commanders. They chose the staunch anti-royalist Robert been executed after an attempted coup against Now requiring an army of his own to counter passed the equally unconstitutional Commission usually local nobles, to levy troops from army. As the twin armies slowly began to grow, Charles city of Hull, arriving outside its gates on The city contained a vast amount of arms and army's coming campaign if it became necessary. As it turned out, Charles was out of luck. Hull's governor - Sir John Hotham, had flipped gates to the king, forcing his majesty to up in Nottingham. It was there that, on August 22nd 1642, the on castle hill. In what was thought by many to be an ill omen down the following night. The campaign began slowly. On September 9th, parliament's appointed at Northampton with the aim of intercepting any royalist march on London. The king meanwhile was still in a bit of a With only five regiments of foot and 500 cavalry more men. In order to get them, Charles departed from through Derby, Uttoxeter, Stafford and Wellington, This position allowed the royalists to absorb in North Wales and Lancashire, swelling his While this was happening, the royalist horse took up position in Bridgnorth, aiming to on the main army. Prince Rupert was the son of Frederick V, to gain the throne of Bohemia in 1618, essentially After being captured by the Holy Roman Empire by the diplomatic maneuvering of his uncle England and, gratefully, joined the English commander. Essex subsequently attempted to prevent a royalist reinforcements by marching towards While the bulk of parliament's field army scattered villages of the Midlands, Essex the west bank of the River Severn. However, when around a thousand parliamentary royalist horsemen at Powick Bridge, the former prince's superior tactics. This was the first true engagement of the Hugh Peters: "Where England's sorrows Buoyed by this initial victory, the now-enlarged on October 12th with London as its ultimate Nest' and end the war here and now. A week later, Essex began his eastward march of Kineton with the aim of protecting Banbury, operations from the nearby town of Edgecote. Because of the two sides' inexperience in either side to the presence of the other so A royalist council of war at Edgecote, held would attempt to seize Banbury the next day. By nightfall, the king's army was dispersing while at about the same time, Essex's army While Charles was staying at the home of Sir and, seemingly by chance, managed to capture which was nearby. After prying information from the prisoners, who returned at midnight and confirmed that By 3am on the 23rd of October, Charles was later, exhausted officers began to dispatch near the Edgehill heights. At this point, the king's royalist army it could have marched towards London relatively However, Charles and his advisors would not a 180, finally meeting the roundhead army By the afternoon of October 23rd, the armies across a section of arable land and meadow To all those present on both sides, it seemed at hand. With its battle array formed on the level royalists arrayed their army in two lines checkerboard formation rather than in the regiments to form a continuous front if needed. Infantry brigades in the first line, from Richard Feilding and Charles Gerard, while Byron and John Bellasis. All appear to have been about the same size, men. Opposite them were Essex's infantry, formed of roughly 4,000 men each for a total of 12,000 The central brigade took up a mainly defensive on the flanks were slightly in front. Most of the cavalry on both sides of the battlefield right wing. He held overall command on this flank, had by James Ramsay's parliamentary cavalry. Also on this side of the battlefield was a and musketeers hidden to ambush in a nearby On the other flank, slightly less numerical those commanded by the Duke of Bedford. It's said that King Charles visited every formations in order to review his troops and He even wished to ride with his army, but small lifeguard cavalry reserve, the majority join Rupert's charge. The first major battle of the English Civil duel. Lasting for one hour, neither bombardment a loud prelude to the real battle. While this was going on, dragoons on Rupert's eventually repel the roundhead ambushers within with a free run at the enemy. With Essex's army unwilling to move first, wings launched a thunderous, head-on charge Using the latest cavalry shock tactics of by Prince Rupert, the king's horsemen on which still used stationary Dutch tactics A unit of parliamentarian troopers even deserted With both of Essex's mounted wings swept right for the king's horse to pivot and flank and rear. However, due to the indiscipline of its commanders the glory of victory, they instead continued Historians believe that if the royalist cavalry point, the English Civil War could have been and the opportunity was lost. With almost all horsemen now off the field, line of battle and prepared to advance. Musketeers blasted away and softened up the their 16 foot long weapons, came into contact a shoving match during which the two sides Better equipped parliamentary footmen managed slowly began to mount on both sides. Now that all of the royalist cavalry had victoriously cavalry units under Sir William Balfour and hidden behind a small hill, struck the flanks After subsequently bursting through the royalist the enemy's artillery pieces. Without knowing it, they had also come extremely and his brother James. In the midst of the fighting, the king's infantry, but was then recaptured by a royalist By late afternoon inexperienced soldiers on battle and, by dusk, Rupert's cavalry returned Neither side had any further stomach for the By the time morning came, the royalists had as a stalemate. The 1,500 dead soldiers was a small casualty continent, primarily due to the terribly cold which helped to seal the fate of many injured After the brutal and inconclusive battle of parliamentary army retreated north to the Meanwhile, jubilant at the news of his army's commander Prince Rupert, King Charles I ordered He advanced via Banbury, which capitulated which would become the royalist causes' While the main armies of both factions thrust great capital city, the embers of conflict In the north, the Earl of Newcastle - Charles' assembled a small but disciplined army and Fairfax and his prodigious son and second Throughout the course of 1642, Newcastle gradually the anti-cavalier forces back to Selby. He enjoyed such success that in December, service. In the west country, royalist and parliamentary counter-raids near the Welsh border, a state In this theatre too, the king's men gained As the war on the periphery continued, the after stopping at Reading to consolidate. However, this delay allowed Essex to overtake London before the royalists got there. The armies clashed again on November 11th, badly mauled two regiments of parliamentary on the way to London. Much like they had at Edgehill, the prince's consolidating their position. This time, rather than simply taking Brentford looted it. While this plundering was gentle when compared on the continent, inhabitants of nearby towns to resist further attacks. When the royalists approached the village they were opposed by a ragtag army of 24,000 capital's trained bands, Essex's beaten Against this defensive bulwark, there was The royalist host was already short of supplies and moreover, if the apparently imminent 'Battle the killing of London's ordinary people, the country against its king even more. So, after an incredibly tense standoff lasting withdrew at dusk. This was a pivotal moment in the war, for and its massive wealth, industry, ports, and parliamentarian power. After this anticlimax, Charles dispersed his surrounding towns where support for the king Over that winter, the famous university city capital for the royalist cause. While the king's army put down roots for superior force concluded the year by besieging After this, with disease and many other issues Essex wintered in the Thames valley, where season of the next year. To further protect the capital, civilians By the turn of 1643, it was clear that any snuffed out. On January 23rd, 1643, a Parliamentarian force royalist garrison at Leeds under Sir William After a swift two-hour battle, the royalists Wakefield in the evening. The sullen appearance of Leeds' beaten and own garrison, and by nightfall, this town, The next day, Fairfax's men occupied Wakefield; communications had been opened between Sir Sir Thomas would remain at Riding until the Meanwhile, Newcastle and his forces returned Here, his command was faced with two tasks Fairfax. First, he sent General James King with a detachment from Newcastle to York. On February 1st, the convoy was ambushed by led by the city's Parliamentarian governor, Although Cholmley's force held the advantage the field. Soon after, Cholmley would defect, declaring much of the East Riding of Yorkshire to Royalist The immediate concern for Charles was a lack and match. His wife - Henrietta Maria, was in the process other supplies and money to Oxford from the However, until he received these critical to undertake any proper offensives. Failure to capture any of the major port towns had to dock at the northern coastal town of control at the time. For the time being, a wedge of parliamentarian-held supplies, a fact which made the Yorkshire While the queen took residence in York, Newcastle Yorkshire's valuable 'clothing towns'. In an early spring campaign, it seemed as their hegemony in the north. Lord Fairfax found himself in a precarious With Newcastle's main army at York and the Riding, Fairfax's power now lay solely in Sir Thomas Fairfax was ordered to bring what forces were in a good position to intercept Sir Thomas soon returned from the West Riding, supplemented by a large body of clubmen - local could find. Sir Thomas was given the task of creating the small Royalist garrison at Tadcaster. During the march, his troops passed through making their way to Tadcaster's outskirts. The Royalist garrison of 3-4,000 men, seeing abandoned the town to the Roundheads. Newcastle had planned to send a large horse but with Tadcaster fallen, he feared his intelligence to Leeds, Lord Fairfax was actually moving Having this train of thought in mind, Newcastle Clifton Moor. The diversion by Sir Thomas' command had to question their enemy's movements and However, finding Tadcaster abandoned, Sir in town, causing much delay while a sizeable Wharfe at Thorpe Arche, just north of Tadcaster, The Royalists were led by Colonel George Goring, Sir Thomas' force marching against the Royalists Thomas only had 150 horsemen compared to Goring's The remainder of the Parliamentarian command Sir Thomas was faced with a difficult task, superior in horsemen across two large areas The area of Winn Moor closest to Seacroft The Roundheads began their march onto Bramham Offsetting his numerical inferiority by utilizing up the Royalists long enough for his foot Moor and Winn Moor. Continuing his steady withdrawal until his Sir Thomas was outraged to find that his foot With the Royalists fast approaching, Sir Thomas divisions, sending them across the Moor, protecting By now, the Royalists had deployed on the to shadow the Roundheads' withdrawal, maintaining Before long, Sir Thomas' forces reached Moor, but the situation rapidly deteriorated Here, men broke ranks to seek a drink on that cohesion became disrupted. A crisis point was being reached in the battle. When Sir Thomas' column emerged from the shadowing them a few hundred yards to the Before the Parliamentarians could manage to turned his men into battle lines and charged A thousand horsemen bore down on Sir Thomas' and greatly-disordered columns. The Parliamentarians, greatly pressed by the The militia clubmen fled almost immediately, musketeers put up a slightly better defense. But when the infantry discharged their muskets, the Royalist horsemen. Heavily outnumbered, Sir Thomas' mounted the foot companies to their fate. Most of the Roundhead horsemen managed to musketeers could escape their current predicament. The Parliamentarians had been well and truly Over eight hundred prisoners were taken, along Sir Thomas Fairfax would describe the battle Unwilling to be defeated so easily, the Fairfaxes On the night of the 21st, Sir Thomas Fairfax night assault and captured Goring in the process. The setback was a shock to Newcastle and meant spare any troops to assist their queen's A few weeks earlier, Essex had roused parliament's to besiege Reading, a vital link in the defensive at Oxford. Essex took the city on April 25th after a Unfortunately for the Lord General, his overly Typhus among his soldiers crippled the roundhead and gave royalist forces in the area much-needed On June 1st, Henrietta Maria left York accompanied by Essex's scouts, was not intercepted. As the supply convoy slowly moved south, the 10,000 men cornered and crushed Thomas Fairfax's securing royalist control over Yorkshire and Now free of pressure from the Thames valley, and cavalry skirmishes, rode north to escort She finally entered Oxford on July 14th to Everything was going the king's way, but just yet. The main threat to Oxford in 1643 was Sir Army, operating in and around the area of to cut off royalist communication with Wales, He was opposed in the west by the brilliant friend and comrade of Waller's with whom earlier. He was also a notorious disciplinarian, touting well, hang well." If there was any chance of an eastward linkup force in Oxford for a combined offensive on first had to be crushed. Back on May 16th, Hopton had defeated the and his rapid progress into Devon had encouraged Prince Maurice and the Marquis of Hertford. On June 4th, Hopton's army was reinforced to 4,000 foot, 2,000 horsemen, and 300 dragoons, In the ensuing campaign, Hopton, Hertford, over their army, combining their dignity, fighting force. Hertford commanded in name through his social Prince Maurice oversaw the army's horse The Royalists' plan for the summer campaign a stout, defendable base of operations by castle, before applying pressure against the Bath. Cavalry raids and skirmishes erupted in the as Hopton's army converged on its objectives. On June 9th, a large skirmish broke out south was temporarily taken prisoner. A three-week lull then ensued, during which additional reinforcements. The Parliamentarian cavalry was bolstered London under Sir Arthur Heselrige, bringing 2,500, but Waller badly needed infantry. By the first week of July, Waller could field 4,000. The Royalists entered Bradford-on-Avon on southeast of Bath. In response, Waller moved his army to Claverton On the 3rd, Hopton's regiments began pushing detachments. With pressure bearing down on him from Prince and Hopton's foot regiments pursuing Waller's were forced to make a hasty withdrawal into At midnight, Hopton evaluated his situation southern slopes of Lansdown Hill. However, having just a portion of the army Prince Maurice's horse regrouped with him On the morning of July 4th, the Royalists army had beaten them to it. Waller's army was strongly posted on the Holding a council of war with his co-commanders, beyond contemplation, but also, to remain Just after midday, the Royalists pulled back withdrawal. Waller knew that the Royalists would try to by advancing along the ridge of Lansdown Hill. And so, just after dawn on July 5th, he maneuvered through Lansdown and set up on the north escarpment Marshfield. At the top of the hill, Waller instructed astride the road ascending the hill, while to probe the Royalist picket outposts. Waller's horse troopers soon located and with them, harrying them back onto the main Roused into action by this challenge, at 8:00 motion towards Lansdown Hill. He used Tog and Freezing hills as the axis Skirmishing continued inconclusively around and his co-commanders knew they would gain their limited ammunition supply. At ten that morning, the Royalists began to to rethink their strategy. But before Hopton's army had moved even and dragoon squadrons in pursuit. The timing of his attack was perfect. The Roundhead horsemen sent shockwaves of of the Royalist rearguard. Only a stout defense by Hopton's Cornish intervention by Lord Carnaravon's Regiment turning into a complete rout. Gradually, more and more Royalist units wheeled at Tog and Freezing hills. Eventually, the Parliamentarians were driven The Parliamentarian horse squadrons were steadily came under a galling enfilading fire from The Roundhead ranks fell into a bout of confusion. However, the Parliamentarians soon rallied slowing Hopton's progress. By the early afternoon, the Royalists held position on Lansdown Hill. Hopton, however, was still less than enthusiastic frontal assault on Waller's prepared position As Royalist troops waited for orders in the barrage from the Parliamentarian guns atop Hopton's Cornish foot regiments impatiently Finally relenting, Hopton ordered both his position. The Royalist horse charged up the center through to drive out the Roundheads from the woods It was hoped that the infantry would then Unfortunately for Hopton, the Royalist horse heavy losses, and it was only through Colonel the attack momentum. Spotting the Royalist squadrons in the center Cornish pikemen forward, advancing up the cavalry holding the right. Their movement partially concealed by a wall pikemen steadily pressed ahead to the top fire as they crested the hill. The advance came screeching to a halt, and charged the stubborn Cornishmen three times on to their position on level ground. Grenville was killed fighting at the head For a decisive moment, Grenville's defense horse squadrons. Waller began pulling his men back to cover his breastworks - the Royalists were now faced strong Parliamentarian defensive line. The battle was grinding into a stalemate, muster the strength to press onwards against to even more withering fire. The lull didn't last long, with Waller deciding towards Bath. The fatigued Royalists, low on ammunition with a vigorous pursuit, allowed the Parliamentarians However, the wheel of fortune turned quickly. When the cavalier commander inspected prisoners powder magazine and temporarily put out of Early the next morning, the Royalists began The Battle of Lansdowne had ended in a major the field at the cost of around 2-300 men However, Waller believed that Lansdowne was cause. Although Waller had retreated in good order relatively light casualties. The Royalists had been stopped in their attempt concerned with safely withdrawing their army stronghold. After then receiving reinforcements from Oxford, west at the conclusive Battle of Roundway Once again, the royalist advantage in horsemen the parliamentary line. Many terrified and fleeing roundhead cavalry drop, known since as bloody ditch. With that, the Western Association Army was When news subsequently arrived in Oxford that annihilated, Charles dispatched Prince Rupert army. This opportunistic campaign probably intended to the city bolstered its defenses, making So instead, the royalist field army headed city. It also possessed key metalworking industries and a small fleet which had potential as the Rupert, 'whose very name was half a conquest', That day, the Prince quartered himself at During the afternoon, he led a reconnaissance Clifton Church in order to scout out the western Parliamentarian forces in the nearby Brandon Opting to return to his camp to begin making of 200 musketeers, 100 pikemen, and a regiment at Clifton Church. During the night, Washington's party sallied at Brandon Hill fort but were repulsed. More skirmishing across the lines continued Meanwhile, to the south of the River Avon, entrenchments in preparation for the siege. Cannons were brought up from the rear to form On July 24th, Prince Rupert demonstrated in an officer and trumpeter to the city walls commanding the Bristol garrison. Rupert ordered Fiennes and his men to stand Rupert crossed the Avon with his retinue the council of war to determine how best to take The main question was how best to take the a direct assault on the works. Prince Maurice and many of his officers in a traditional siege operation, but Rupert on the position. Eventually, Rupert won out, and the stage day. The plan for the Storming of Bristol called In order to identify friends from foes between the password "Oxford" was given out to to wear a green emblem or article of clothing. Prince Maurice's Cornish footmen were formed the walls on either side of the Temple Gate. The plan called for a signal shot to be fired At three o'clock on the morning of July columns began setting off for the attack. Seeing this, Prince Rupert ordered the signal assault. On the northeast side of the city, a brigade and Prior's Hill Fort, but they were repulsed wounded. More bad news soon arrived when a small bomb to explode. Colonel John Belasyse's brigade assaulted ladders, they could not climb over the wall Seeing the brigade retreating in disorder, the regiments, bringing them back up to the but they were still unable to gain headway. Colonel Henry Wentworth led his brigade into fort, and was soon repulsed. To the right of Wentworth's brigade, Colonel an angle in the wall, out of sight of the Wentworth's men soon followed Washington's The Royalist column threw their grenades over Heavy fighting erupted inside the fort, and to allow for the horse squadrons to follow The Roundheads here, led by Major Hercules Royalist tide and were soon falling back. Colonel Fiennes' Regiment of Horse attempted around the Windmill Hill fort until the Parliamentarians suburbs. Seizing the momentum of the attack, Wentworth's the "Essex Work", its Roundhead garrison Royalist foot. Back to the south of Bristol, the Cornish pushing carts into the moat to use as a makeshift The Cornish foot suffered especially heavy with many senior officers being killed or Colonel Brutus Buck, at the head of his column, a blow from a halberd, which knocked him back Sir Nicholas Slanning and Colonel John Trevannion officers were badly wounded. To the north, Wentworth's brigade was joined against the city defenses supported by Major-General The Royalists were soon upon the inner fortifications Frome Gate. The Cavaliers tried desperately to force it Among the Parliamentary defenders at the Frome These women vigorously worked to reinforce the Royalists out. Rupert sent a message to Maurice asking for on the Frome Gate. As these troops made their way around the a parley talk with Prince Rupert, seeking Rupert immediately took up Fiennes' offer with a renewed assault. Meeting with Rupert, Fiennes came to an agreement by which time the Royalists held much of the The Parliamentary garrison, under the terms out of Bristol with the officers and cavalry all ranks were permitted to keep their personal However, the terms of the surrender agreement found their belongings ransacked and plundered, Royalist troops as they departed Bristol. The capitulation of Bristol was and materiel. Around 80 guns were seized, along with 1,700 But the manpower cost had been a high one the attack. With the gathered momentum, a royalist war that the next target would be Gloucester itself. With a population of 5,000, it controlled to south Wales. By the 10th royalist armies completely surrounded its governor - Edward Massey, they were met Now facing an extensive siege, Charles' a bombardment on the 13th. When news arrived of Gloucester's situation, that its loss might mean total collapse. To remedy the situation, Essex's main army influx of fresh troops and the trained bands At about this time, Edward Montagu - Earl formed Eastern Association parliamentarian He appointed an almost unknown cavalry commander in command. On August 25th, Essex's enlarged main army bastion in the west. Despite suffering multiple royalist attempts Prestbury Hill, from which he could see the on September 5th. From there, the Thames army fired off a number relief was close at hand. On the same day, Charles' almost month-long total failure, his army withdrawing to Bristol2. Nevertheless, Essex's now vulnerable position to win the war anyway. The presence of London's trained bands in could bring Essex to battle and defeat him, would be lost with the army's destruction. Realising the danger, the Lord General tried up to Tewkesbury, feinting as if he was either using the northern route, or intended to invade When this ruse failed, Essex boldly made a September 15th. He almost succeeded, but Prince Rupert's the parliamentarians via a more direct route army at Aldbourne Chase. This forced Essex to delay his march and allowed The royalists occupied the town of Newbury thereby putting themselves in a superior position to rest on high ground south of Enborne village. Defying his usually cautious nature and unwilling roused his army, composed of 8,000 infantry The general rallied his vanguard, asked whether the reply: "Let us fall upon them! We will, by God's assistance, beat it from With that Essex led his vanguard of 4,000 out at 6am, towards the strategic height of The royalist forces hadn't properly reconnoitered the escarpment's importance. So, with relative ease, the parliamentarians The cavalier army, made up of 7,000 infantry out of Newbury a few hours after the parliamentarians While the main force organised itself, the musketeers and some cavalry to take Round However, he was shocked to discover that the by around 2,500 parliamentarian soldiers, Realising he couldn't make progress with there under Colonel George Lisle and rode News of Round Hill's capture by the roundheads organised war council quickly decided what would be. With their plans finalised, Charles I's Axis in three main sections. A relatively small number of troops under stationed on the right wing - in the enclosed In the centre - attacking Round Hill, were Prince Rupert and the majority of royalist Common on the left, closer to the Enborne England's second Stuart king raised his valley area of the battlefield. It was on this front that the day's first artillery fire raining down from Round Hill. Vavasour's royal regiments advanced in the hedgerows, moving forward on land which was attack. After a brief, terse clash on this northern with heavy losses. However, sensing an opportunity, the triumphant their own. This thrust gained some ground and managed of Charles' life guard cavalry blocked it. For the remainder of September 20th, both the northern front. On the approaches to Round Hill, the two Byrons units advanced up the slope in an attempt However, their march was spotted and they of musketeers and emplaced culverins. During the vicious fighting which broke out aristocrat known as Lord Falkland, who fought ball. Soon after, cavalier horsemen managed to rout were close to securing Round Hill. However, professional officers in Essex's used disciplined volley fire from muskets The king's forces were stuck in a stalemate As brutal close quarters fighting was taking organising 6,000 royalist horses on Wash Common. When the first line of cavalry was ready, horse, who hadn't fully formed up on the Stapleton managed to put together a defence tactics to drive the royalist cavalry back However, amidst the crack of carbines and managed to turn the parliamentarian cavalry's to Skinner's Green Lane. In the afternoon, reserve units of the London Common left by the cavalry, repulsing a probing Instead, the royalists resorted to a massive parliamentarian ranks. However the supposedly inferior Trained Bands, all expectations and stood stalwartly, maintaining face of massed but inaccurate culverin fire. Nevertheless, this constant shelling eventually When Prince Rupert then led a thunderous mounted at around 4pm, Essex's trained bands began to scythe the entire army in two. At precisely that moment, the Earl of Essex his retreating troops and inspiring them to In one account, a cannonball is said to have but his personal intervention was necessary. The trained bands, particularly their Red the royalists, reforming their formation and After some subsequent lighter combat, both fourteen-hour stalemate. Charles' forces retreated all the way to about what to do. The next morning, the royalists chose not supplies or because the high command simply Both armies lost about the same number of had come close to victory, Essex escaped back Newbury was just as tactically inconclusive Nevertheless, the battle would have far-reaching Although the king's armies were dominant allies in the far north were about to change The royalist summer had ended. By the time October of 1643 came around, the in a bitter civil war for well over a year. The grave consequences of this violence slowly on, as atrocities against one's fellow countrymen the 'gentlemanly warfare' of the early As the Earl of Essex and his royalist enemies Newbury, political dealings between parliament reaching a conclusion which would intensify The parliamentarians needed a strong military an army ready to march. In return for a promise to implement the Presbyterian help to crush Charles' royalists2. After months of back and forth negotiation, was finalised on September 25th 1643. Meanwhile, the king was bolstering his forces previously tied down in Ireland, began returning As 1644 began, the north of England came under William Cavendish - Earl of Newcastle. This all changed on January 19th when the cavalry, 600 dragoons and 120 cannons crossed entering the war on parliament's side. It was led by the illustrious veteran of Lutzen Leven's advance towards Newcastle was almost word of the invasion and managed to beat the to wait for his heavy cannons to arrive by When he finally arrived before the city walls burned to the ground by Cavendish's defending Nevertheless, the Tyneside city was put under However, constant harassment of Scottish supply of shelter provoked by the defender's scorched most of his army on the 22nd. Only six regiments of the Covenanter army Unwilling to let his enemy escape unhindered, his own troops. Over the next few weeks, Leven and Cavendish engage because of the unfavourable terrain Finally, in late March, Leven engaged and forcing him to flee in the direction of York. By this loss, the Northern forces of the king for such assistance rested with Prince Rupert6, battered host. In a brilliantly executed campaign, Rupert's crucial royalist stronghold of Newark on March in the attempt. Instead of continuing his march, the dashing to raise more men, but barely had time to A week after Rupert's triumph in Nottinghamshire, Down by defeating Hopton's royalist army ended any prospect of royalist victory in Royalist fortunes had even begun to sour in Sir Thomas Fairfax defeated John Belasye at portion of York's intended garrison. After receiving word of the unfolding disaster, army for the second time in just under half before the parliamentarians could get there. Once again he succeeded, despite losing many the northern royalist bastion on April 15th. Three days later, the Covenanter army closed army of Sir Thomas Fairfax, fresh from its Together, starting on the 22nd, the allies Charles I knew that if York fell, the north To deal with the sudden strategic crisis that commanders assembled at Oxford on April 25th After vigorous debate, Prince Rupert gained It was decided that the remnant of Hopton's central army at Oxford, and this newly bolstered Meanwhile, Rupert himself would raise several With that decided, Rupert arrived back in own men. On that same day at the other side of England, and Cromwell took Lincoln, freeing them up Rupert's march began later in the month in Lancashire. He first bypassed the firmly parliamentarian and ravaged nearby Bolton. After fighting for the town came to an end, and civilians were slaughtered. This massacre helped bolster parliamentarian After all, if the king was relying on such was he truly their king? In Bolton, Rupert also received a welcome his army from the northeast8. These were the Earl of Newcastle's horsemen siege began, as cavalry would be useless in As Rupert secured Liverpool7 and cemented the southern defensive strategy and embarked It was a disaster, leading to the breach of forcing Charles to flee to Worcester with At this point the king, realising Prince Rupert's south should not have been ignored, sent a left Rupert to make his own mind up. We'll talk about this theatre more down Upon receiving the communique, the cavalier his own way - he would relieve York as well Scottish allies before victoriously marching After the campaign that was about to happen, the rest of his life. Prince Rupert's relief army, now about 14,000 News that the prince's army was only a day siege. They withdrew to proactively meet the royalist a ridge near a village five miles southwest The Knaresborough Road, which Rupert was using front of this ridge with the River Nidd behind This rendered the direct route to York almost having a dangerous enemy army threatening Rather than risk such an attack, the wily Just before dawn on July 1st, royalist horsemen Road. To the parliamentarians and Scots, it was vanguard, with the obvious implication that Accordingly, they drew up their men in battle army to arrive. However, the royalist 'vanguard' was just others into a false sense of security. While it did everything that a normal vanguard nephew swung the majority of his army north Boroughbridge and was uncamped in Galtres Then his forces advanced even further, scattering Poppleton and securing a boat bridge there10. Realising they had been outwitted11 and fearing to the south if he gave them the slip again, marching south to Tadcaster, while its cavalry At about the same time the royalist cavalry, the city by Newcastle, strode back into York the city. In a brilliant maneuver which was arguably Rupert had saved old Roman Eboracum without Obeying what he thought to be the king's army and then come south urgently, Prince and Newcastle's men. Bolstered by the reluctant York garrison and prince marched to Marston Moor and visibly By early evening on July 2nd 1644, two of lining up against one another across Marston The battlefield was bounded in the east by The 28,000 strong parliamentarian army took significantly outnumbered 18,000 royalists to the north. Their position was fronted by an irregular useful defensive equaliser. On each of the roundhead flanks, 3,000 English troopers were arrayed in three lines of battle, The right wing, closer to Long Marston, was was under the command of Oliver Cromwell, of mounted troops - the Ironsides. Forming the mass of parliament's army were line. In the vanguard were units from Lord Ferdinando Eastern Association Army troops of Manchester's right14. Behind them in the second line were more of and even more Covenanters were in reserve. The Supreme command of the entire Army of Down the slope, Prince Rupert's feared royalist for man and horse for horse, possessing about John Byron and George Goring respectively. Each of these divisions were also accompanied However the cavalier army only had 10,000 It was drawn up in the Swedish style that service on the continent, and was led by the a number of brigade commanders. After a wait of several hours, the battle duel on the western side of the field. Parliamentarian guns began blasting Byron's and provoking a response from some royalist high ground just in front. This shelling caused some chaos in Cromwell's The roundhead commander kept his cool, responding regiments as backup. Foot regiments of Prince Rupert and Lord Byron took place, badly mauling the royalist units This triumph heralded an all-out parliamentarian slope, as thunder began to crack and lightning In the centre, the brigades of Lord Fairfax to push over the defensive ditch and even cannons. However, not all was going the Parliamentarians' had a more difficult time breaking through action taking place next to them. On the battlefield's eastern wing, Sir Thomas mounted vanguard under his personal command cavalry opposite him. The result was a swift rout of the cavalier by Fairfax and his horse. However, this left most of the parliamentary quickly became bogged down during the advance. Uneven terrain, bracken, hedges and constant leaderless horsemen, and at the moment they troopers launched a thunderous charge, driving Just like at Edgehill two years before, most defeated enemy, cutting many fleeing soldiers train beyond the ridge. Though they had won their engagement, Goring's As the parliamentarian cavalry on the right Cromwell rode out at the head of his first Lord Byron's royalist horse opposite, who Both sets of horsemen fired their pistol carbines around, unsheathing their sabers for a second In this initial disorderly clash, it was Cromwell's casualties and slowly driving Byron back. The situation became even more serious when to join their commander, and for a few moments However they didn't break under the pressure, join the fray and stabilise what was quickly the war. Somewhere in the chaotic fray Oliver Cromwell on fighting nevertheless amidst his men. Witnessing the seemingly decisive clash which rallied his army's cavalry reserve in addition into the engagement as well. His hope was to tip the scales in favour of unit in the front and sides. When almost all firearms had been discharged contest of sword against sword, the parliamentarian Leslie came forward and swept into both of Attacked from the front by Cromwell and from front line was scythed apart and broken with Witnessing the ensuing massacre their comrades shamefully caught up in the rout. Unlike Goring's men on the other side of officers kept full control of their own highly-disciplined Immediately bringing the pursuit to a stop take stock of the strategic situation. In the centre, Lord Fairfax's initially by Newcastle. Though this wasn't in itself critical, the first and second line Scottish infantry into line. Led by Sir William Blakiston, another small and charged into the gulf which the Scots underbelly and even breaking through their However, indiscipline once again proved fatal to plunder the enemy baggage. The only section of Goring's cavalry to infantry units in parliament's right-centre, Leven, Lord Fairfax and Manchester into fleeing The combined army's foot was now in almost Sir Thomas Fairfax returned to the field with Riding all the way across to Cromwell's what shall I do?" In response, Fairfax said "Sir, if you charge, Cromwell's cavalry looped around the rear hastily returned cavalry and then turned on This marked the end of the battle. Hundreds of fleeing royalists were slain and troops clad in white woolen uniforms, refused After a battle lasting several hours, 4,000 the bloody battlefield of Marston Moor, at After being routed by Cromwell and the Scots, surviving cavalry. He would obsessively keep the king's ambiguous ready to excuse his defeat if challenged. The great Earl of Newcastle, whose talents royalists, could not handle the embarrassment. He abandoned Charles' cause completely, the sea to a self-imposed exile in Hamburg. With this disaster, the parliamentarians gained As Rupert's Marston Moor campaign was starting consequence were taking place in the south. When we last caught up with Charles he was by the parliamentarian armies of William Waller In a move which has since been regarded as of Both Kingdoms ordered the Thames armies Essex marched off to relieve the royalist force continued to pursue the king with diminished Unfortunately for the latter, Charles used luring Waller into a trap and defeating him Even worse than this were events taking place After parting from Waller, Essex relieved the long-running siege of Plymouth2. In the process, however, Essex's reckless left his forces trapped between Charles' Isolated from help, Essex marched south to contact with the Parliamentarian fleet under The Parliamentary army deployed for battle detachment to hold Fowey Town and await the Essex then stationed the remainder of his River, mostly around the high ground of Beacon side of the river further north. The Parliamentarian horse squadrons covered the areas between the two main foot detachments. On August 11th, the Royalist commander Sir south to seize the Respryn Bridge, which would the King's army on the east bank. Grenville then moved on to Lanhydrock. Two days later, Lord Goring and Sir Jacob the coast, and occupied Polruan fort the next By seizing the fort, they effectively closed fleet, leaving detachments to guard Bodinnick Essex had been hoping for support from his Waller had sent General Sir John Middleton from his own army to reinforce Essex, but under Sir Francis Doddington. After its defeat at Cropredy Bridge, the rest to provide Essex any support. Setting up his headquarters at Boconnoc just 17th, Charles rode down the causeway along where he scouted the Parliamentary positions Parliamentary guns opened fire but did little On August 21st, Charles' army launched its Beacon Hill. In the early morning mists, the attack commenced Sir Richard Grenville's force advanced on at Restormel Castle, but Colonel John Weare's the castle to the Royalists. Back on the east bank, the Royalists assaulted by storm. Advancing with a column across the Liskeard prominent hill on the far side. By the end of the day, the Royalists were Lostwithiel. That night, the Royalists constructed a redoubt began firing on the town from the earthworks. Over the next few days, the Parliamentarians threat across the river. This led the Royalists to believe that Essex With this assumption in mind, Charles sent Bridge to make contact with and support Grenville's of the river. On August 26th, Lord Goring's 2,000 horse marched to the southwest towards St. Blazey and to prevent supplies from reaching the Royalist detachments took St. Austell and from Fowey Town. Essex's army was now effectively trapped along the river to Fowey - a frontage of only Meanwhile, a large Royalist supply train reached of munitions with 1,000 barrels of gunpowder. In contrast, Essex's army was starving and to its position at Lostwithiel. Warwick's fleet had been prevented from winds. Time was running short for Essex's army, Going off intelligence gained from Parliamentary the King that Essex was planning to make a his foot and cannons, with a small escort The King immediately sprang into action, giving troops attempting to break out of the encirclement. They fortified a cottage on the Lostwithiel-Liskeard musketeers in order to halt the passage of road to the east. Elsewhere, Royalist horse squadrons broke At three o'clock on the morning of August of his Parliamentarian cavalry - around 2,000 The musketeers at the cottage didn't fire Balfour's horsemen galloped across the Fowey By day's end, Balfour succeeded in crossing his command largely intact. The Earl of Cleveland soon set off in pursuit but was unable to catch the Parliamentarian On September 2nd, Parliamentary foot and cannon their part of the escape. Major-General Philip Skippon led the Parliamentarian spot from the high ground atop Beacon Hill. The King ordered his army to advance and catch At 7:00 AM, 1,000 musketeers stormed across preventing a Parliamentarian demolition party Roundheads out. The Royalists brought up their cannon through rearguard. Under pressure from the heavy cannonade as troops fell back. While the main body of the Royalist army fell Lostwithiel, King Charles led his Regiment and forded the west bank south of the town. Here, he met Grenville's Cornish force leading Lieutenant-Colonel William Leighton of the the Royalist foot regiments and led them into Simultaneously, Charles launched his own mounted the Parliamentary foot through several fields At about 2:00 PM, the Royalist foot managed and the rest of the day was spent fighting Sir Thomas Basset, coming up from St. Blazey, Colonel Appleyard led the vanguard of the pressing back the Parliamentary foot regiments At 4:00 PM, Essex launched his remaining mounted of foot in a desperate counterattack, managing of their banners in the action. But the King's Life Guard soon arrived and back once again. Lord Goring then arrived with his retinue to continue across the battlefield and join squadrons to the east. Skippon launched one last effort to stem the a counterattack from Castle Dore. For another hour, the Royalists were driven pushed back the Parliamentarians to Castle The Earl of Northampton's Brigade of Horse ended the pursuit and the battle. Essex himself had to flee in a small fishing to escape, 6,000 footmen were forced to surrender Alarmed at the sudden reversals of fortune and the Eastern Association Army under Manchester When the king subsequently attempted to raise late October, he was blocked and forced to an army twice the size of his own. Charles refused to withdraw and avoid a pitched army. The Royalist army formed up in order of battle resting on the Kennet River, its center strengthened and its left anchored by Donnington Castle. On October 26th, the Parliamentary army initiated lines against the backdrop of small-scale On Clay Hill, Parliamentarian cannons opened in the Shaw House. Meanwhile, the Parliamentary senior generals Probably at the behest of Waller, the Parliamentarians would conduct a circuitous march to the north extreme left flank through Speen Village. A simultaneous attack would be launched against Shaw House. The flanking columns would have to march a villages and across the Lambourn before turning Instructions were given out that a cannon attack by the flanking force, while Manchester Gathering intelligence on the Roundheads' Cornish foot regiments and horse squadrons a sturdy redoubt armed with several cannon. Three brigades of foot occupied the ground brigade of horses held the army's center and the crossing points of the Lambourn at flanking march at Boxford. In the early morning hours of October 27th, march. Before it could cross the Lambourn, it was The Royalist horse detachment at Boxford was and soon the Parliamentarians were crossing Rather than wait for Waller's cannon signal, right at the Shaw House and in Shaw Village. Despite initially gaining success in their Manchester were driven back in disarray and Waller's flanking columns reached their under a heavy artillery barrage by guns in guns in Donnington Castle. Eight hundred musketeers from Essex's army, the redoubt while the remaining Parliamentary with Maurice's Cornish infantry inside the Within an hour, the redoubt and Speen Village forcing Maurice's regiments back in a confused Following up the success, Balfour led his Cornishmen, but found themselves slamming in person by the King. Through the efforts of the King's Life Guard, by Balfour's troopers. As the daylight hours waned into the evening, but apparently failed to seize the initiative line. Lord Goring's horse charged Cromwell's being driven back. Meanwhile, Balfour's horse were coming under the ditches and around the hedges on the outskirts Balfour's troopers were swiftly counterattacked horsemen under Sir Humphrey Bennet. Back on the Royalist right flank, Manchester daylight fast fading away. He dispatched two columns from Clay Hill, while the larger left-hand column moved into However, both these attacks were halted by with severe losses. Before the Parliamentarian advance could continue fell on the beleaguered troops, promptly ending Against all odds and despite the near capture unimpeded, partially because of Manchester's The king's final campaigns of the year were Manchester once again failed to decisively and a week later was unable to stop Charles' On the 23rd, relative optimism pervaded the quarters. Parliament's failure to successfully end and blame among the increasingly factionalised More consequentially, it led radicals such speaking in favour of establishing a completely It would be, as Trevor Royle put it: "a well paid and well equipped, under the control In short, it would be a permanent army staffed of parliament, and whose sole aim was to gain After weeks of enquiry and debate, this 'New 11th 1645, when the Commons passed the New of 1,200 footmen each, 10 regiments of cavalry of 1,000 dragoons. Ten days later, supreme command of the New due to a combination of extensive military loyal to the parliamentarian cause, he was Henceforth, members of parliament were largely careers of the Earls of Manchester and Essex. Though the embryonic New Model Army would of months and years, it needed time to fill force. This necessity determined a measured parliamentary 1645, and also made the continued cooperation However, the Covenanters were becoming wary English 'allies'. This was partly because the Scots feared radicals League, and partly because in Charles' northern chaos... Back in September 1643, the warring factions royalist soldiers to be sent over to assist The agreement also allowed the Irish Confederates, to renew their war against the Presbyterian Therefore, at the end of June 1644 therefore, Earl of Antrim sailed to Ardnamurchan in Scotland Upon landing, MacColla immediately began rallying to the Covenanter Campbell clan, such as leaders Meanwhile, in Oxford, James Graham, otherwise from the Covenanters before the civil war With the threat of his countryman's pro-parliamentarian Montrose his Lord Lieutenant in Scotland and When Montrose arrived, he joined with MacColla common cause. This was convenient for both men because, in need of an army and MacColla was just as This ragtag army of unlikely Celtic allies to Perth. Outside of the city on the plains of Tippermuir, army about the same size as their own, whose Soon, they learned that a larger Covenanter Seeking to get clear of it and to raise local Dundee on the way to Aberdeen, where another Despite facing an army that outnumbered his Montrose and his Irish colleague smashed the casualties and suffering only minimal losses Due to the death of his favourite drummer negotiations, Montrose let his troops viciously 1644. This event, fueled by generations-long blood as Black Friday. In October 1644, Montrose campaigned throughout - the Earl of Argyll, meeting his numerically neither side was able to gain an advantage. When winter drew in, Argyll went back to Strathbogie Blair Atholl. Far more consequential than simply beating actions were beginning to affect the war's The Covenanter government, growing concerned Leven to detach 9 regiments of his own army, to stop Montrose. Argyll and Baillie managed to unite their two men parting company soon after. Montrose, unwilling to give his rivals a moment on Argyll's 3,000-strong army with 1,500 Again, the Marquess won a complete victory These events ensured that Covenanter priorities in England and diverted the attention of Leven's Instead, they remained in the Scottish Marches from Charles. The Parliamentarians were on their own. With the royalists lacking any real strategic army to sharpen its claws, campaigning in In the west, an array of the king's commanders take pressure off Chester. In the far south, Lord Goring ravaged Hampshire of January. Hundreds of miles north, Marmaduke Langdale's in early March, and was back in the royalist The Committee of Both Kingdoms fired the opening Cromwell, who had returned from sparring with east of Oxford on April 21st. Meanwhile, Fairfax led the bulk of the New he and his 10,000 were resupplied. While the now fully-supplied Fairfax set about Cromwell repeatedly harassed Charles' forces carthorses which would be needed to transport leaving. However, when Goring and his 4,000 returning on May 3rd, the parliamentarian horse retreated With the troublesome parliamentary cavalry from Oxford to Stow-on-the-Wold with his troops, leaders including Goring, Rupert, and others. Once again, the council of war argued about that Goring and 3,000 horse would split off while the main royalist army would go north. Reacting to the enemy's movement, the Committee goals and sent its leader new orders. Reluctantly obeying, Fairfax sent four regiments back with the aim of an eventual rendezvous The latter shadowed Charles' army from afar to prevent the royalists from lifting the Parliament sent messages asking Leven for Scotland left the Covenanters unable and unwilling Partially because the Committee believed that to bad information, Fairfax was ordered to which reached the royalists only a few days In response, Charles' field army unexpectedly Leicester, an important parliamentary garrison Aiming to distract the New Model Army besieging the royalists attacked. A savage two-day clash over the town's defences shot followed, after which Leicester's garrison looted. However, 400 royalist troops were dead and strength severely. Seeing the danger of continuing the fight to desert Charles' and head home. His remaining army stayed in and around Leicester Meanwhile, the fall of such an important midlands for Fairfax to raise the Siege of Oxford and On June 9th 1645, two key decisions were made Firstly, Fairfax was given 'strategic independence' Secondly Oliver Cromwell, parliament's rising heretofore vacant position of Lieutenant-General Realising that a fight might be on the horizon, Lord Goring to return from the west county. However Goring's response letter, which and pleaded the king not to fight until he This intelligence coup had two-fold consequences. It alerted Fairfax that he didn't have to also depriving the king of any knowledge that Now confident about their chances, Fairfax position, which the efficient scouts of the The royalists attempted a retreat north to rear-guard was constantly harassed by parliamentarian It became clear near the Northamptonshire be made: Prince Rupert uncharacteristically of battle, but his advice was not heeded. The king would stand and fight. At this point it's worth examining the armies 1645. Deprived of its northern manpower base, the Naseby was far diminished from that which Its core infantry brigades in the first and comprising 2,925 musketeers and 575 pikemen. In the left centre were the regiments of Sir units under Henry Bard as well as the Queen's In the right centre were regiments under the and the Duke of York on the outside. Three further regiments of foot drew up in Charles and a mixed reserve stayed in the horse and foot, in addition to Prince Rupert's Interspersed between the ranks of infantry behind the vanguard and one more behind the On the royalist left flank were roughly 1,700 Langdale's northern troopers. They were drawn up in the Swedish manner, unit. Charles' other wing, anchored on a series and was under Prince Maurice's authority. This gathering of cavalry comprised Rupert's revered units which had served with distinction They also had musketeers accompanying them. Overall, the royalist army at Naseby counted just over half of them mounted troops. After some prompting from Cromwell, the numerically on the opposing Closter Hill, the red and out on the verdant landscape. Its pike and musketeer infantry in the middle of battle - five regiments were in the first, was in the third. The foot was led on the tactical level by infantry commanders, while Lord General Sir the battle from a strategic distance. On the wings, Lieutenant-General of Horse the right, including the now-infamous Ironsides. On the other wing was Henry Ireton - Cromwell's 2,500 on the parliamentarian left. At around 9:30 in the morning on June 14th, position8 on Mill Hill. He became determined to exploit a potential western side of the parliamentarian formation The Lieutenant-General energetically rode later, in the presence of a dragoon contingent At Cromwell's direct instruction, the Colonel's the hedgeline and ascended the slope beyond. After riding west of the bushes for a short the dragoons approached Maurice's right There, they were met by volley after volley advance for their arrival, and were forced From their now-superior position, Okey's royal cavalry from beyond Sulby hedge, disordering Receiving reports of a developing situation Prince Rupert moved out from his position Upon arriving, it was immediately clear that harassment in their current position, and After moving out of range, the royalist cavalry before launching a thunderous charge. Opposite them, Henry Ireton's horse returned meeting their foe at its base in a fierce On the inside, closer to the infantry, Vermuyden routing three cavalry divisions opposite them This proved to be a mistake. Rupert's units on the outside decisively them off the field and then turned to crash The latter's forces completely collapsed the field, pursued towards the artillery train Once again, the Prince had failed to press At this point - about 11am, Charles' infantry side angled slightly ahead of the rest. Unfortunately for the New Model Army, both barely inflicting any damage on the advancing Upon contact, they drove through the central close quarters combat9, in which muskets were All of this fighting resulted in the creation victorious infantry brigades. Despite their initial success, the king's and were now attacked by new parliamentarian bulge. As the clash of pike and musket continued, on Dust Hill's eastern edge launched their Cromwell's own first rank of cavalry mirrored The stalwart parliamentary horse almost immediately but nevertheless the royalists fought doggedly, back through the rough, narrow terrain made However, the northern cavalry was incredibly fighting against the Ironsides. Although the king sent his reserve lifeguard when Cromwell called forward his second line near Rupert's unengaged 'blue coat' Having trounced the royalists standing in halt of all his troops on the right wing, order and discipline where lesser leaders The Lieutenant-General took a few minutes during which he was joined by Fairfax and embarking on a final cavalry charge into the Pinned as they were from the front and sides, of withstanding Cromwell's attack. As the king's army began to disintegrate, Prince Rupert's Bluecoats were still unbroken The New Model Army's commander led his personal another parliamentarian foot regiment attacked Rupert's guard did not retreat and died In the middle of the slaughter, it is reported to seize the Bluecoats' regimental colours When he was reprimanded for doing so by an "I have honour enough, let him take that Naseby finally shattered the royalist war At the cost of only a few hundred casualties, a thousand royalist soldiers, injured many of whom were Charles' battle-hardened core Rather than pursuing his shattered enemy any Leicester, which was taken by June 18th. After its crushing defeat at Parliamentarian in England began spinning into complete freefall. Although the king realised that his prospects cavalry with which he quickly traveled to hope of reinforcement. Back in the midlands and fresh from recapturing pursuing Charles, instead marching towards There, the last fully constituted royalist Goring's command, was besieging the city. Receiving word that he was about to be attacked the siege and attempted to withdraw towards Unfortunately for this ardent kingsman, Fairfax on July 10th, destroying the final royalist If the destruction of Goring's army and west country wasn't bad enough, Fairfax last great manufacturing hub and prime gateway In the aftermath of Naseby, Charles valued Prince Rupert, demoralized but still fiercely to keep it against the enemy at all costs1. So confident was he that assurances were given at least Christmas. However, not even the man who was arguably Fairfax's momentum. After a miserable siege of just 18 days, a 10th in return for mercy and an escort back When the king got word of the prince's abandonment In response, a royal letter of condemnation - 'What is to be done after one who is so himself to so mean an action?' For the royalists, the bad news just kept Only three days after the 'Betrayal of Bristol', it, news reached Oxford that the Marquis of in Scotland, had been defeated at Philiphaugh Although the marquis continued to cause trouble, Increasingly deprived of options, the king the hypothetical landing point for any Irish him. He arrived on the 23rd, but was quickly bested via Newark. The following months were an extended litany the royalist partisans. Though there were no major battles which took early 1646, parliament controlled most of Fearing for his son and heir's safety, Charles this time. The final act of the First Civil War played New Model units under Richard Brereton intercepted moving back south to reinforce Oxford's Some of the cavalry managed to break out of the army's commander Lord Astley and the much resistance. As he was led off the field, Astley turned work, boys, and may go play, unless you will With enemy armies closing in all around Oxford3, two companions and went north. For months, covert negotiations under French the king and the Covenanters, who were deeply Having received promises that he would be to do anything which 'troubled his conscience', May 5th and was taken prisoner. The king now had protection in custody, while Keen to keep him secure, they moved back to At about the same time, tension between the were reaching a fever pitch. On August 12th, The Committee of Both Kingdoms' that, although the war was won, they were Northern England if the PS1.8 million they The quickly splintering factions managed to that, above even this, the Covenanters were Solemn League and Covenant. Rendering the Scots' war aims even less king to Presbyterianism, or at least to agree had promised before. The king's sheer obstinance and repeated believe that he wasn't worth the trouble. On January 28th 1647, they agreed to sell for installments of outstanding payments totalling With that done, the Scottish army began withdrawing after almost half a decade at war. The king, meanwhile, was transported to house cheering crowds on the way. In London, parliament was not the strong, to win the civil war. Instead, without Charles as a strong enemy the 'Presbytarian' moderates and the more wide. In late February and early March, Members sought accomodation with the king, were busy disbanding the New Model Army's infantry To make the slight even more cutting, this wages that the troops were owed. The army had a number of other motivations, of aspiring egalitarians known as Levellers. They believed that the army's anti-royalist and the elimination of wealth and privilege. Squabbling within parliament continued for neutral Oliver Cromwell, who was both a prominent commander, began realising his position was Amidst rumours of a Presbytarian plot to seize ends, Cromwell probably condoned the dispatch Joyce to Holdenby at the end of May, tasked On the morning of June 3rd, Charles I walked accompanied by Joyce's troopers. There, the politically neutral Sir Thomas and the army's mood was growing more restless. In London, the revelation of Charles' military to cross his own personal rubicon. Quitting parliament entirely, he rode north whom he was incredibly popular. When Cromwell and Charles first met for talks, to what later events would imply. The parliamentary cavalry general even informed and most conscientious man of his three kingdoms'. Behind the scenes however, Charles continued aiming to keep all his options open. For the time being, Cromwell and the army At the end of July 1647, riots, sparked by out of control in the English capital. The violence led to a number of 'Independent' the speaker of the house. Legitimised by the speaker's presence in Model Army into London and put it under military When the situation was considered safe, the at Hampton Court, where the imprisoned monarch wasn't entirely on his terms. Instead, Charles hoped that the obvious divisions could be widened and exploited for his own That political strategy initially seemed to Leveller officers presented the army 'grandees', of the Army Truly Stated. This was a revolutionary manifesto calling to: the dissolution of parliament and the would give 'all the free born' the right So that disruption in the New Model Army could Debates to address the issue. Although Cromwell's rejection of such a anti-monarchical nature of the discussion Fearing for his safety, or just sick of being and eventually ended up at Carisbrooke Castle imprisonment than before. If this irritation wasn't enough to harden more severe intelligence that he was receiving Just after Christmas 1647, Charles I secretly the 'Engagement', a military alliance return for state enforced Presbyterianism. After much debate at the Edinburgh assembly, gained a majority and, on April 20th 1648, parliament of breaking the previously established It also demanded uniformity of religion and Army, which the Scots considered to be the This was completely impossible for the English mobilising for war against their recently Bt this time, however, parliament and its embers of unrest in England. In late March, A spontaneous revolt in support Colonel John Poyer. However, it was quelled in short order by Meanwhile in the north of England, the efforts Langdale were limited due to the intervention This wasn't the end of parliament's troubles. In late May, an overly draconian parliamentary which, while enjoying some initial success, Colchester, which was put under siege on June Although all of these revolts still posed side knew that an invasion from Scotland was As one of Charles' allies stated "It is King and England. All others have their rise from the expectation The decisive campaign of the short Second The royalist storm finally broke on July 8th, under the Duke of Hamilton crossed the border 4,000 beleaguered rebels at Carlisle. With the tables turned by the presence of orders to withdraw to the safety of Barnard This would allow for the preservation of the their way north to deal with the problem6. Unfortunately for the royalists, Hamilton for two weeks while supplies and reinforcements This gave Cromwell time to reach the area, to meet at Wetherby on August 12th, forming men. Unwilling to allow the invaders any opportunity sped westwards into Lancashire and down the advance along England's west coast. To increase his army's marching pace, Cromwell behind. Having decided on an advance deeper into Lancashire the bulk of Hamilton's Scots came to a halt They set up for the night and prepared to most of the Scottish cavalry was sent ahead Langdale's force of around 3,000 foot and east of the main, coalesced about four miles Due to inadequate reconnaissance, the king's 9,000 were only a few miles away, encamped As the sun came above the horizon on August the Scottish foot across the river7. Shortly after this, a small probing vanguard with Langdale's surprised men on the road Believing that the entire parliamentary force to Hamilton personally and informed him of to continue the river crossing by his officers. With minimal reinforcements to assist him, After hours of light skirmishing, he was finally in mid-afternoon. The battlefield was a disconnected mosaic ditches, narrow lanes and high hedges in which advantage over the freshly mustered greenhorns Nevertheless, Langdale's musketeers gave managed to keep Cromwell's army at bay and However, when fighting south of the Clitheroe Lancashire regiment at the sector and sent Accounts differ as to what happened next, swiftly after Langdale's defeat. Hamilton was trapped in Preston trying to coming from the north, while the small earthwork taken after some New Model Army marksmen captured Many Scots were killed before they could cross the river on horseback and joined the majority With Cromwell now blocking the road back to continue on south, where reinforcements would Over the three days following the battle, were harassed constantly by Cromwell's Ironsides There, the Scottish infantry was engaged and Although the cavalry and leadership managed surrendered on August 20th. At the other end of the country, an infuriated Colchester to the negotiating table on the He was not in a merciful mood, and had Sir royalists until the very end, executed for realm's innocents. Charles I was still imprisoned at Carisbrooke, their former king had unjustly brought strife will had resulted in his defeat during the Therefore, Charles was guilty of disregarding For this crime against his own people, Charles radicals began to clamor for harsh punishment. A famous passage drawn from Numbers 35:33 as an example. 'So ye shall not pollute the land wherein the land cannot be cleansed of the blood that shed it" Scotland's fragile alliance with the king defeat at Preston began filtering north. Sensing blood in the water, anti-engager factions struck out and plunged Scotland into a civil In early September, Stirling and Edinburgh became clear that they didn't have the military back soon after. However, the threat of Cromwellian intervention the anti-engager's legitimacy. With peace in Scotland secured, for now, a and dined with friendly nobles in Edinburgh1. Meanwhile, in England, momentous events were The viciousness and pointlessness of the Second moderates, who desired an accommodation with who now wanted him gone. Charles' continued refusal to budge on religious infuriated the radicals even further throughout temporary alliance between the extreme Levellers The army officers' patience finally ran Charles was forcibly returned to the mainland and the main force occupied London the following Acting on Ireton's orders and without the Pride marched on parliament at dawn on the 'Pride's Purge'. MPs who voted for engagement with the king arrested, leaving a pliable Rump Parliament From that point on, the military was in control newfound authority to punish Charles I for On the first day of 1649, Ireton's new puppet High Court to charge the king. The captive monarch was taken from Hurst to Palace in London, which parliament used as Before being parted from his son, Charles we expect the harvest." He knew exactly what was coming. After a contentious, week-long trial, the death on January 27th, 1649. Three days later, at about 2PM, King Charles blow to the neck, prompting a deathly groan To his enemies, Charles I was an incompetent for the burden of ruling his realm and unwilling But he was also a devout Christian, a loving was doing the best thing he could for England's the seventeenth-century. Whichever of these perspectives rang truer, On the same day, the army's rump parliament by the late monarch's son, the future Charles the time. Although he was crowned in mid-February by the English monarchy, and with this lack of began. The death of Charles I and the conclusion everyone was at peace. Ireland had been in an intermittent state broke out, and during the conflict had often By early 1649, Irish Catholics were in an against the parliamentarians, and it was clear To do so, the Commonwealth's newly founded the always reliable Thomas Fairfax. Much to their dismay however, the Lord General commission. With little other choice, the Council instead Oliver Cromwell, to lead the Irish expedition. Unfortunately for them, Leveller mutinies out during the spring and stalled preparations. Led by reformist figures such as John Lilburne, by the lack of political change in England1 the king's tyranny had simply been exchanged In what would be Lord General Fairfax's he and Cromwell rallied loyal forces against assault on May 13th near Burford. In the aftermath, many Leveller notables were most of its political power. With the military's internal unrest resolved for his campaign in Ireland with 12,000 soldiers whom he would come to refer to as 'barbarous Most of Cromwell's fleet set sail on the port of Dublin a day later. Ireland's royalist leadership under the dry of blood and money in prolonged sieges To that end, much of their manpower was redeployed on the invader's route. One of these would-be fortresses was Drogheda, to Belfast. It possessed large medieval walls and, to into northern and southern sections by the between the two. However Ormond and Sir Arthur Aston - the would be a primary objective for Cromwell. Therefore, they were not prepared when, on called Michael Jones appeared on the northern Some minor skirmishing took place which didn't arrival preceded the main parliamentary army Immediately taking note of the city's geography, south of the Boyne and left Jones' cavalry Things got worse for Irish-royalist defenders arrived by river on the 5th. After being unloaded slightly downstream, with converging fire, targeting the south be less costly. The plan was simple - smash two adjacent sections supporting breaches and capture the Duleek Cromwell sent demands for Aston's surrender, was on. On the 9th, Parliament's cannons began a all the while Cromwell deployed his men to Three regiments of infantry were placed at while Cromwell personally led the bulk of gate. Drogheda's centuries-old fortifications 11th, when two holes were blown through both Reacting to the danger, Aston moved his command be dug around the breaches as a secondary With the city penetrated, Cromwell raised to induce Aston to come and submit. When this failed, he even sent an officer However, believing relief to be close at hand, time. The Lord General intensified his eight gun firing formidable shots ranging from 12 to It was all too much. By midday, Drogheda's walls were on the been made. Cromwell readied his men for the attack. At 5PM, Colonels Castle and Hewson led their managed to seize a foothold beyond the wall. However, a point-blank volley of royalist pushed the parliamentarians out again. Among the casualties was Colonel Castle, whose morale. Seeing his troops faltering, Cromwell ordered personally taking command of a regiment and Inspired by their general's presence, the Drogheda's outnumbered defenders and forced Doing so stripped the drawbridge of its defending the crucial crossing. Now surrounded and isolated on Mill Mount, themselves to be taken into custody. But the quarter was not to be given on that For a reason which has been a matter of debate the captured royalists with shot, club and Aston himself was reportedly bludgeoned to by men who believed rumours that he kept gold With Drogheda south of the Boyne captured, zeal and bloodlust swarmed across the undefended Seemingly having lost control of his army men as they began indiscriminately slaying In short order, most of the city was under still remained. At some point, the Lord General was approached be done about a group of royalist soldiers Church. Cromwell had his men pile up the church's About 40 people perished in the dreadful inferno, Overall, almost 3,000 defenders and a thousand Debate still rages as to whether the fervently fate due to anti-Catholic hatred or whether accepted laws of early-modern wartime conduct. The man himself stated of the act: "It will the future." A month after the slaughter at Drogheda, Cromwell it to the sword in a similar manner. After this, the parliamentarians continued into the new year, stymying any hope the future there. Cromwell himself left his son-in-law to command May 1650, for a new emergency had emerged Since mid-March, the dead king's heir had game, both hoping to renew the royalist alliance Kirk party who had come to believe parliament same time hedging his bets with their enemies. Even worse than the failure to impose Presbyterianism that England's kingless New Model Army sought as well, a prospect which was completely anathema All of this led to negotiations between the began in March 1650 at the Dutch city of Breda2. When talks ground to a halt, the king-in-exile onto his side of the chessboard: the Marquis Following his defeat at Philiphaugh, Montrose to gain support, and after Charles I's execution King's son. Aiming to light a fire under the Covenanter's with a mercenary army in April. Unfortunately for the unreservedly loyal Marquis, game. His invasion had its hastening effect on the his small army from being decisively defeated Only a few days later, Charles and the Scots In return for a sworn oath to institute Presbyterianism of royalists in Ireland and Scotland, especially grant Charles its support in restoring him After being captured in the aftermath of Carbisdale, where he was hung, drawn and quartered at The man who was among the dead monarch's out to dry by his son. With the Breda agreement concluded, Charles on June 23rd3. Parliament looked at the situation in the A day later in London, 500 miles to the south, of State convened to decide who would lead Their initial choice, Thomas Fairfax, declined war. So, having recently returned from Ireland, in his place. Together with around 16,000 veterans and their north and finally crossed the Scottish border Rather than facing one of the age's greatest army, Covenanter general David Leslie fortified Anchored by terrain features on both flanks, obstacle which the Scottish army could safely Dunbar, a seaport crucial for the invasion's resistance two days after the border crossing. Cromwell advanced even further along the Firth, Leslie's defences. After a short attempt at breaking the line, possible before supplies ran dry. In terrible weather conditions5, the parliamentary on July 30th, but was harried by Leslie's many losses. Slightly battered, Cromwell and his men reached At about the same time, Charles arrived at Parliament's Lord General tried for a second Edinburgh to the south, but failed again due weather. On August 31st, Cromwell pulled the attrition-sapped 7,500 infantry and 3,500 cavalry. Perceiving a chance to cripple the already his infantry brigades around to take the pass Cromwell's line of supply, reinforcement Meanwhile, the bulk of his army - about 14,000 both Dunbar and the Berwick road. Such impregnable high ground would have usually wind and rain hammered Leslie's exposed That, in addition to a deteriorating supply prompted the Scots to descend Doon Hill at There, in the cover on lower ground, they ravine, prompting the observing Cromwell to hands, they are coming down to us." Brushing off concerns from some of his less hungry army forward, drawing it up in a conventional the Scots. A minor skirmish between scout units took was mostly used for redeployment. At some point, Leslie ordered the majority to swap flanks and mass on the Berwick road The unpassable inland flank was now guarded Night fell with the parliamentary command The army was exhausted, its supply situation in Scotland with an enemy army between them To decide what the best course of action would hours of September 3rd. Most of the regimental colonels reiterated out with cavalry, but Major-General John Lambert for an attack. In his view, Leslie's Scots sat in an incredibly Having descended from Doon Hill's lofty a wall. With a bit of skill and luck, the Scottish against that very wall. Still somewhat nervous, Cromwell and the other Under the cover of darkness, the English began and drawing up in one single column on the The advance began at 4am with a cannonade the rapid seizure of crossing points across and some supporting cavalry. During a subsequent half hour lull in the their forces to effectively counter Cromwell's Lambert crossed the ravine with his first his fellow Major-General Montgomerie's Scottish Surprised by the New Model's vicious dawn line on the right wing was swept from the At about the same time, Monck crossed the brigade just to Lambert's right and marched Scots recruits led by General Lumsden. It wasn't even a challenge, for Monck ploughed the unit, injuring and capturing Lumsden in Despite their relatively swift collapse, Lumsden's under Campbell of Lawer to come forward. They charged into and utterly smashed Monck's knocking it totally out of the battle and That wasn't the worst of parliament's While Lambert's victorious cavalry was still second line of Scots troopers surged forward Broxburn in retreat. Fortunately for the Major-General, he also to reinforce the left wing, charging straight in a head-on fight. While he did so, Cromwell steered his personal careening into the Scottish wing. This was the final straw that broke the camel's All of the cavalry units on Leslie's seaward or routing. Some of them barrelled back down the road towards Haddington. However, there was no pursuit. Discipline had always been one of the Ironsides' it once again at Dunbar when Cromwell and As they had at Marston Moor and Naseby, the Now exposed due to their cavalry being blown left-side infantry were totally unprepared rolling up their line against the Doon Hill. Cromwell and Lambert delivered the coup de Campbell of Lawers' unit which fought to There was nothing left for the Scots to do Those few who could ran away from the battlefield had, but hundreds were slaughtered. Stunningly, up to 6,000 of Leslie's soldiers The general himself retreated to Stirling With Scotland's army shattered, Edinburgh on September 7th, but the 'Third Civil War' The final campaign of Britain's terrible in the late summer of 1651 when Cromwell lured Leaving Lieutenant-General George Monck behind his worst soldiers, Cromwell gathered the twenty miles a day in some of the hottest Within a week, Cromwell's Puritans had reached town of Ferrybridge on August 19th. From here, Cromwell instructed Lambert to Thanks to Lambert's effective cavalry scouts, Cromwell was surprised, yet gratified, to England still clung to the Puritan banner The common folk here perceived Charles' invasion by Scottish brigands. All across Northern and Central England, county to block any Royalist activities and defend Although Cromwell held a deep disdain for available volunteers helped demoralize Charles and rethink their strategy. Sixteen miles east of Liverpool along the encountered a mixed contingent of Chesire by Lambert's veteran cavalry squadrons. The Royalists attacked on August 16th, forcing Mersey since the swampy terrain made mounted He was also under orders not to bring on a And so the cavalry withdrew, much to the joy swords and taunted the retreating horsemen. Although Charles had won a nearly bloodless were still deeply troubled. Leslie was the most concerned, noticing that to the Royalist cause. Faced with similar concerns from his other his hopes of marching directly on London, territories along the Welsh border. He believed that he could recruit more Royalists from the hard-fighting Welshmen. It also gave him an open line of retreat to Reluctantly, Charles ordered his army to shift along the River Severn, which forms the eastern The Royalists, weary and exhausted from their and immediately began strengthening the town's Charles ordered all local males between the Worcester, where they listened to an impassioned join the ranks, promising good pay and a pardon Just a few hundred recruits joined his army, larger Puritan army under Cromwell, which Charles told one of his close confidants, Two days later, on August 24th, Cromwell arrived Here, he combined his battle-hardened regular to form a 27,000-strong army. Cromwell would now, for the first time in his adversary. Charles attempted to even the odds against 300 men to watch over the nearest crossing at Upton. Massey was under orders from Charles to destroy but for some unknown reason, Massey delayed Meanwhile, Lambert arrived on the scene with destroyed nor guarded. He sent a squadron of dragoons rushing across at Upton Church. Now alerted to the enemy threat, Massey counterattacked, forced the Royalists into a retreat. Massey was badly wounded during the skirmish, With a secure foothold on both ends of the and militiamen under Lieutenant-General Charles and widen the beachhead. Before long, 14,000 Parliamentary troops had forcing Charles to divide his already badly Many of Charles' senior officers were becoming in Worcester. In the meantime, Cromwell moved deliberately, hills, Red Hill and Perry Wood, to the east He placed his batteries of heavy artillery to allow his men to build a pontoon bridge shallower River Teme. Fleetwood would lead the crossings there, to assault Powick Bridge, just a few miles Opting not to attack Worcester head-on, Cromwell in a tight noose around the city, forcing position to attack Cromwell in a pitched battle It was the same plan he had used at Dunbar Just before 6:00 AM on September 3rd - one - the Battle of Worcester began when the Puritans The 5,000 men under Fleetwood moved west up to cover a 20-boat caravan heading towards As Charles watched these developments through he dispatched two brigades under General Robert Colonel Sir William Keith's brigade was Major-General Pitscottie's Scottish Highlanders bridge-crossing efforts at the river confluence. Most of the cavalry under Leslie moved north his troopers out of the fight. The cavalier was already planning to cover The Scottish defenders at the confluence, to their post along the Teme, held their ground The Highlanders even managed to beat back the stream at Powick Bridge. Meanwhile, Fleetwood's pontooning efforts Seeing a lack of progress, Cromwell sent a boat in order to guard the contested triangle He ordered the men to throw up pontoon bridges from the Royalists - in preparation for reinforcements Despite coming under heavy fire, the Puritan and between 3:00 - 4:00 PM, Cromwell personally bodyguard and the veteran foot regiments of and Charles Fairfax, across the river. The Highlanders, meanwhile, were poorly led off the growing Puritan beachhead. Puritan horse reinforcements managed to sweep ground west of the river. Now that pressure to his front had been partially own pontoon bridge across the Teme to threaten Colonel Keith led his troops in a strategic every tree, bush, and hedgerow between the Finally running out of ammunition after hours ranks for refuge in Worcester while others the town. In the midst of the growing confusion, Colonel captured. Back at the cathedral in Worcester, Charles just as Cromwell was hoping, and oblige the at Red Hill. As more and more of Cromwell's regiments Severn, Charles believed that a sudden, spirited lines. Leading his men out of the city, Charles' and musketeer pickets behind a stand of hedgerows, managed to capture Cromwell's artillery. For a moment, the fate of the battle - and in the balance. The courageous charge by Charles, ably assisted of achieving a stunning triumph in the eleven-hour But the ever-dependable John Lambert stood With his own mount shot from under him, Lambert holding firm against Charles' attacks until the river. All the Royalists' hopes for victory were against the stout Puritan line. By 5:00 PM, the battle was coming to an end, and instances of last-minute actions erupting Among the dead was the Duke of Hamilton, whose Many of the Scots sought refuge in the earthwork Sidbury Gate. Despite a personal plea from Charles to come of it. The redoubt's defenders would later refuse Scots would die fighting, cut down to the Defeated but not panicked, the young King rally his men for another charge. Leslie was of no use to the beaten monarch. At the Sidbury Gate, Charles made one final Frustrated, he shouted out, "I had rather the consequences of this fatal day!" Instead, Royalist cavalry troopers led by to buy time for Charles to escape through Overrun on three sides, the Royalist army in Worcester killed. The streets and gutters of Worcester ran red Another 6 - 10,000 Royalists were captured commanders. The English captives would be conscripted for further service. The less-fortunate Scots were deported to to work a life of indentured servitude on Very few of the Scots who had invaded Northern of Scotland again. The fighting had all but ended by nightfall. Cromwell announced that night the stunning The would-be King Charles managed to escape Parliamentary patrols by hiding in an oak He eventually reached the southern coast of Charles would not return to his native country France, the Spanish Netherlands, and the Dutch The crushing defeat at Dunbar had dealt a the Kingdom was fully absorbed into the natal After this, Cromwell's young regime had Britain, but there were still affairs of the to settle. The brutality of Cromwell's army during and 1650 is considered by many to be a black man, and his policies in Ireland in the years among the denizens of the Emerald Isle both The massacres at Drogheda and Wexford had to push back against the Puritan tide, but strongholds of Limerick and Galway had been starved into submission. After this, the Irish no longer had the resources on, but they continued to fight on using asymmetrical As many as 30,000 men went into hiding in Living as outlaws, they struck out against the entire countryside into a practical killzone than two miles beyond his military camp. Cromwell's response was indiscriminately Under his purview, Parliamentarian forces any counties suspected to be supplying the This resulted in an island-wide famine, which plague. In total, the combination of warfare, famine anywhere between 20-40% of Ireland's total Additionally, another 50,000 or so Irish captives overseas to the English colonies in North In 1652, fueled by his disdain for the Catholic on the island once and for all, Cromwell instituted the native population and its Church. All Catholics were banished from all major Anglo-Protestant in character since before priests, who were hunted and executed. On top of all this, massive swathes of land those who had not taken part in the rebellion, the New Model Army. By 1652, Ireland was at England's mercy, of the Three Kingdoms were under the full However, his English Commonwealth still had For decades, England and the Dutch Republic former supporting the latter in its war for However, throughout the English civil war, as both Royalists and Parliamentarians had of trading with the opposite side. This, in combination with a slew of other of wartime chaos, resulted in the outbreak Ultimately, neither side was able to decisively overwhelmingly fought at sea. However, the English emerged with the upper invoked the spirit of Sir Francis Drake and lanes, crippling the Hollanders' economy. From the moment he had relieved King Charles' natal commonwealth had been in an incredibly However, after his parade of military triumphs, to the humbling of the Netherlands, his infantile legitimacy, earning official recognition from control over its New World colonies in Barbados threat of Royalist invasions. Although the military record of Cromwell's domestic situation left much to be desired. By 1651, Parliament was essentially a skeleton due to extensive purges during the civil war. This chronically understaffed body politic, utterly incompetent at composing legislation, Act, an aggressively protectionist import aforementioned war with the Dutch Republic. Following the deposition of their monarchy Cromwell included, were clamoring for extensive In this, the Rump Parliament also consistently the religious and social issues of their day, done except for the self-congratulatory re-election By the 20th of April, 1653, Cromwell had grown his army to eject the MPs from Westminster of civilian government in the Commonwealth England. Thereafter, Cromwell and his high army command their own hands. By July 4th, they had appointed 140 new men This new parliament, known as the Nominated not by the people but by a small group of In theory, its members were supposed to represent and Ireland, in practice, the representatives who had been appointed there after the English countries. Cromwell's rationale was that, by handpicking sympathetic to religious reforms, that he in purpose, and would actually get stuff done. Unfortunately, just being 'godly' and too broad a qualification. Ultimately, the Nominated Parliament became with pragmatic lawyers who wanted sensible esoteric mystics and all other manner of religious This ideological schizophrenia ultimately and after five months of constant infighting, on December 12th, 1653 and returned power For the second time in eight months, the existing and in the resulting power vacuum effective and its commander-in-chief. Cromwell is often portrayed as a power hungry But, to his credit, despite being given every he consistently tried to make a representative After the collapse of the Nominated Parliament, drawing board. By the 16th of December, one of his most decorated had come up with a new blueprint for governance. This was a document known as the Instrument of being the first sovereign codified and The Instrument of Government proposed a government The first tier would be a parliament of 400 elected by the constituents they represented. The second would be a 15-man council of state. The third tier would be the Lord Protector: and would serve as the head of state. It should come as no surprise whatsoever which mantle. On the 16th of December, 1653, the new government inaugurated as the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth Despite his new grandiose title, Lord Protector means. All three branches of his new government had himself required the majority consent of his such as making use of the military when Parliament powers. Unfortunately, Cromwell's lofty ideals of survive the realities of what such a thing Since elections for the First Protectorate many of Cromwell's enemies being sent to Royalists, fierce critics of the New Model who had a bone to pick with the Lord Protector job at gunpoint. It did not take long for Cromwell to become thwarted by his opponents in parliament, who power and reduce the size of his army. Meanwhile, all the way over in the New World, from the Spanish, which would become the English In early 1655, Cromwell's contentious relationship to a head when they tried to pass a radical their power at Cromwell's expense. The Lord Protector's response was blunt On January 22nd, he dissolved parliament. There was a poetic irony in this action, for as the late headless Charles I, who had been and go home whenever Parliament had not towed Cromwell's slide into authoritarianism continued devout royalist, launched an uprising against Charles II to the throne of England. This revolt was, to put it bluntly, pathetic. Penruddock was barely able to muster more was put down within less than three days. Penruddock may have been as much of a threat uprising gave the Lord Protector the excuse a military dictatorship known as the "Rule In this new system, England and Wales were directly by titular Major General from Cromwell's In a reflection of Cromwell's own religious dour, joyless puritans who banned 'ungodly' fairs, and the celebration of Christmas. Unsurprisingly, these 'no fun allowed' the general population, and resulted in a Cromwell and his regime. By 1656, Cromwell had buckled under public the proverbial bus, and reconstituted Parliament. However, this Second Protectorate Parliament For one thing, its members were no longer Parliament, were hand-picked by Cromwell from Any dissidents in the First Protectorate Parliament On the 26th of June, 1657, Oliver Cromwell in Westminster Hall. This lavish ceremony was a coronation in all Cromwell was sat upon King Edward's chair, and bestowed upon with a sword of justice It should be noted that although Cromwell's King, he adamantly refused, insisting on maintaining However, with his slide into authoritarianism voices, it was clear that the firebrand general of republican liberty was gone. Oliver Cromwell was now a monarch in all but Seeing their once dogmatic and revolutionary to oppose, many of Cromwell's closest supporters By the end of 1657, the Parliament which was even begun to defy him, readmitting former By now, Cromwell was simply running out of In 1658, the Lord Protector's health was year, his daughter died of disease at the After that, Cromwell had more or less given A lifetime of fighting, politicking and clinging God's chosen Englishman had deposed the a stable government in its place. On the 3rd of September, 1658, Oliver Cromwell His son, Richard Cromwell succeeded him as on arrival. Unable to control either Parliament or the In his place, the Rump Parliament that his over the country. In the ensuing political chaos, a Royalist Rump Parliament, which ultimately facilitated On the 29th of May, 1660, Charles II entered the throne that his father had lost. The Royal House of Stuart was officially back was officially over. We will talk about the history of Britain coming weeks and months, so make sure you to see them. Please, consider liking, subscribing, commenting, Recently we have started releasing weekly consider joining their ranks via the link to watch these weekly videos, learn about access our private discord, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and