What is the Cause of Suffering? How Did Buddha Realize This? The Second Noble Truth, teaches that Dukkha its causes and origins. It meticulously and comprehensively examines before. It posits that suffering arises from dependent into being due to various conditions. Suffering is not an absolute truth. It is a noble truth; and we need to pay attention We do not say that in this world, everything suffering associated with the world we live Viewing suffering from this perspective allows attached to and bound by in our lives. The body is one of the things we are attached According to natural law, the human body is It is not ours alone, yet we always treat For example, if you say you do not like my does not like my face. This face is me. So, he does not like me. I am very dissatisfied with him about this.&quot; If I identify this body as myself, then when But if I realize that this body is not mine, not bother me. My face is what it is at that moment, it looks It belongs to the natural world, and according When we reduce our identification with this The body comes into being due to various conditions. Just let it be, that's all. If we adopt such a perspective towards the with the people around us. We often face difficulties with others when is you. If we disagree on a matter, we end up arguing We cling to our views of others and feel disappointed How many times in life have we gone through we hope and wait for each other only to end We wait, desire, and then get disappointed us completely happy and satisfied. If we relate to life in this way, expecting will inevitably disappoint us in one way or And we will also always be disappointed with what we wish for. The Second Noble Truth advises us not to cling but to recognize the arising or origination We often fail to see the origination of things. When we look at something, we instantly generate and resist it. However, to see the origination of something, And when we see that suffering has its beginning we will change our perspective on suffering Chapter1. The Direct Cause of Suffering: Craving (tanha) In the Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta (the Setting taught that it is craving, appearing in many and the cycle of birth and death. In Buddhism, Tanha (Pali) is a critical thirst, greed, either for material possessions It is typically translated as craving, and (sensual pleasure), bhava-tanha (existence), And to eradicate these Three Cravings, one in their true nature. However, it must first be acknowledged that Therefore, ending suffering means ending the itself. WHAT IS SENSUAL DESIRE? Sensual desire is understood as greed, craving sensual desires through the five senses. When the senses come into contact with objects craving and desire for those pleasurable sensations Sensual desire can be divided into two types: Craving for material happiness: such as the owning a lot of money, and property. This type of desire is crude and easy to recognize. Craving for spiritual happiness: such as the ideal life. This type of desire is more subtle and harder However, both types of sensual desire are conflicts, and turmoil in the human soul. They lead people to compete, harm each other, for the pursuit of these desires. Humanity values spiritual happiness over material one might be alone at home with a dirty face going out. Very few people commit suicide due to poverty, but many do so because of heartbreak, wrongful from bankruptcy. Conflicts rarely arise when living with pets, people, due to spiritual life's superiority, Farmers living in remote villages have a simpler is much less than that of successful singers, Giving up the craving for material happiness the craving for spiritual happiness (Fame) The only way to end suffering is to practice desires. The focus is on developing wisdom, deep understanding pleasures. Then, the mind will reach a state of peace, and suffering. Thus, the essence of ending suffering is to When erroneous cravings are eradicated, one WHAT IS BHAVA-TANHA (CRAVING FOR EXISTENCE)? Bhava-tanha is understood as the greed, It originates from the erroneous understanding life to be noble and happy; whereas death Therefore, people dominated by bhava-tanha point of obsession. Bhava-tanha compels them to cling to life birth and death, enduring immense suffering The power of bhava-tanha becomes even more It makes people terrified of death, even though end. However, in reality, bhava-tanha can cause of death. Bhava-tanha is not only an obsession with of continuous rebirth, trapping beings in To end bhava-tanha and the cycle of suffering, to see the true nature of life as suffering. When one deeply realizes to live is to suffer, an end. At that point, the mind is completely liberated, WHAT IS VIBHAVA-TANHA (CRAVING FOR NON-EXISTENCE)? Vibhava-tanha is understood as the greed, an ideal realm, free from the constraints This represents the illusion of the soul's Many religions propose the belief that, after forever in an ideal spiritual world, such This is the manifestation of vibhava-tanha. People long to live forever after death to However, vibhava-tanha is still a subtle Because any ideal world, however conceived, clinging. Vibhava-tanha makes it difficult for people escape the cycle of birth and death. To end this subtle vibhava-tanha, one needs see that all things lack inherent existence When deeply realizing that everything is Emptiness, to vibhava-tanha come to an end. At that moment, the mind is completely liberated, whether with or without a physical body. Thus, vibhava-tanha, while subtle, is also Only when wisdom clearly sees the principles eradicated. Sensual Desire (Kama-tanha) - The lowest Craving for passions, pleasures, and delights Examples: craving for delicious food, drug and material possessions... Though the lowest, sensual desire immediately loss of happiness... Craving for Existence (Bhava-tanha) - A Craving clinging to life, fear of death. Examples: fear of death leading to efforts and health, willing to trade all wealth for Bhava-tanha causes beings to continuously Craving for Non-existence (Vibhava-tanha) Craving to live forever, even after death, Examples: dreaming of the soul ascending to Some extremists in Islam intensely believe they die for their faith, thus they are ready death. Vibhava-tanha is the most subtle and hard through rebirth. Craving, desire, and longing, appearing in and the cycle of birth and death. However, it should not be considered the primary is interdependent, so there cannot be a first Even craving, considered as a cause or source factor for its arising, which is feeling (vedana), thus forming a cycle known as Dependent Origination Therefore, craving is not the first or only But it is the most direct and apparent cause. That's why in the Pali scriptures, the origin defined as the impurities beyond craving, Here, it's important to remember that the self, arising from ignorance. Chapter 2. Ignorance as the Root Cause of Suffering (Dukkha) In the previous chapter, we examined the truth overcome suffering, and how we tend to create this natural desire, simply because we do We recognized that the root of this situation is termed in Buddhist terminology as basic This misunderstanding is not only in the way of causal relationships. Therefore, in Buddhism, we talk about two regarding the law of cause and effect, specifically absolute nature of reality. These correspond to the two levels of understanding upon in the introduction. The first level is understanding the causality-dependent the law of cause and effect. The deeper level is understanding the absolute basic ignorance. WHAT IS REALITY? Reality is understood as the totality of objects, moment. Reality comprises two parts: Objective Reality: These are the objective Human Perception of Reality: This involves information from the outside world and respond Specifically, when the eyes see an object, arise, followed by responses through words/actions, or suffering. A similar process occurs with the other senses. Thus, objective reality plays a significant However, each person's understanding of reality In Buddhism, reality is divided into two categories: Yet, each person combines both perspectives No one adheres entirely to either Materialism Therefore, reality is complex, comprising Each individual perceives reality based on RIGHT VIEW - WRONG VIEW From the Materialist perspective, the material Materialism holds that matter is inherent, but simply transformed from one state to another. The mind, consciousness, is merely a by-product elements in the universe and the human brain. Accordingly, all phenomena, objects like shapes, to the material world. They exist naturally, not created by the mind. Materialism also believes that happiness and created by objective circumstances. Therefore, according to Materialism, the only external material conditions. Materialism completely denies the existence the law of karma and rebirth. However, Buddhism considers this viewpoint Because no matter how much one improves the human mind cannot be ended without a correct Thus, Buddhism refers to this as right view ANNIHILATIONISM (DENIAL) REGARDING REALITY From the Idealist perspective, there exists this impermanent material world of phenomena. This Spiritual World is referred to as God, on the religion. Idealism posits that the entire material universe, created and governed by the Spiritual World. It is this Spiritual World that formed the immortal soul. Happiness and Suffering: According to Idealism, as in money, property, beauty, and pleasant Suffering is present in difficult, adverse However, the material goods or adverse conditions and Punishment" by the Spiritual World. All human emotions of joy, sadness; fortune, as rewards or punishments. Those who do good deeds receive blessings, Therefore, the only way to liberation from World. However, Buddhism regards this as a mistaken Because no matter how much one prays or repents, its deep-rooted inner causes. To fully liberate from suffering, one must of all phenomena. THE BUDDHA'S ENLIGHTENMENT ON THE REALITY Whether through Materialism or Idealism, humans of Form, Sound, Smell, Taste, Touch, and Dharmas. Historically, only the Buddha achieved self-enlightenment In the Pham Vong Sutra, the Buddha declared "Through the clear vision of birth, the the Tathagata is fully liberated." This indicates that the Buddha's enlightenment bases contact the six sense objects. Thus, to understand the Buddha's enlightenment, when the senses contact the external world REALITY AS EXPERIENCE For example, a healthy person eating an apple is a material property, inherently present, in the apple. This is the Materialist perspective. However, with the same apple and the same and most notably with Covid (loss of taste), to the conclusion that SWEETNESS is not in is created by the Mind. This is the Idealist perspective. If one carefully observes the truth according (The Law of Cause and Effect) EACH OTHER THEN TOGETHER CEASE, GIVING RISE The apple is one cause and the Tongue is the With two causes but no contact between them, When the two causes, the Tongue and the apple, (or BITTERNESS depending on health or illness) direct sensory perception REALLY recognizes Tongue contacting the apple (Taste object) perception&gt; - Direct perception&gt; arises. And when CONTACT ceases, &lt;Feeling of sweetness Therefore, the Feeling of sweetness and Direct do not permanently reside in the apple, or The Feeling of sweetness and Direct perception owned by the apple, thus they are Ownerless, Hence, the OBJECT of Reality as perceived belonging to the category of Name (mental) world. DIRECT PERCEPTION knows the FEELING OF SWEETNESS, The truth is the Mind knows the Mind (Feeling), understands. Similarly: Eye contacting Form object gives rise to: Ear contacting Sound object gives rise to: Nose contacting Smell object gives rise to: Tongue contacting Taste object gives rise Body with Touch object gives rise to: &lt;Feeling Mind contacting Mental object gives rise to: The five senses of vision, hearing, smell, information. When the Mind (Manas) contacts Mental objects termed as the sensation of mental objects, sensations is known as Thought-consciousness The OBJECT of Reality, that is, what is seen, including: the sensation of images, sound, to the mental category, not the material world as misunderstood by humanity. These sensations arise from the contact of are Impermanent, Ownerless, and without possession The TRUTH is: Eye-consciousness perceives the sensation Ear-consciousness hears the sensation of sounds, Nose-consciousness feels the sensation of Tongue-consciousness tastes the sensation Body-consciousness feels the sensation of Mind-consciousness knows the sensation of The REALITY OBJECTS that humanity lives with, texture, gender, buildings, trees, vehicles, sensations (FEELINGS) arising from the contact the external world of Form, Sound, Smell, In situations like deep sleep without dreams, in an accident, the Six Sense Bases (neural no CONTACT, and therefore, no Reality, no OBJECTS OF SENSATION AND COGNITIVE AWARENESS contacting the Six Objects give rise to 6 as follows: are the six direct sensory cognitions (abbreviated Ear-consciousness, Nose-consciousness, Tongue-consciousness, which are responsible for recognizing or being referred to as sensory perception of objects). DIRECT COGNITION the object of Sensation, neither before nor CONTACT arises &lt;Feeling - Thought&gt; arises &lt;Feeling - Thought&gt; ceases. This truth contradicts Materialism (where and the cognition of the object follows) and of the object exists first and the material Recent discoveries in quantum physics also and the Observed Object appear at the same INDIRECT COGNITION (MENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS) CONTACT - &lt;Feeling - Thought&gt; - Attention Consciousness&gt; Cognitive behavior occurs with information giving rise to CONCEPTS, and simultaneously, just arisen. The cognition of the object and the OBJECT not as Materialism and Idealism conceive. Mental Consciousness arises from thinking, based on information stored from the past is about SENSATIONS, not about the WORLD, is about SENSATIONS, NOT about the Material However, humanity, with the perspectives of that it is about the World. If reasoning, logical contemplation based there is a World. As for what the World is, Mental Consciousness For instance, based on the visual sensations infer that the forms are interacting according cease, giving rise to a result, thus Forms (Anatta). This is the limit of humanity's understanding Form. Therefore, some distinguished scientists have "Up to now, one thing is certain, we, humanity, Therefore, humanity's current understanding is based on INFERENCES, IMAGINATION, which of the truth. In summary: The enlightenment content of the and ceasing of Sensations, their allure, their way of expressing the Four Noble Truths. Such an expression highlights: The truth of the truth of the Cessation of Suffering, the all pertain to INNER EXPERIENCE and not to as misunderstood by Idealism or Materialism He also declared: "I declare, the world, the world, and the path to the cessation of with its perceptions and consciousness." Therefore, to practice to realize the Four DIRECTLY KNOWING THE SIX SENSE BASES within deep caves or remote mountains, explore the state of seeing the nature, hearing the nature, Chapter 3. Misunderstanding the Truth About: Greed, Hatred, Greed, Hatred, and Delusion are three crucial three is divided into two types. One type of understanding, which is incorrect Ignorance (Avidya), Illusion, and the lack beings. An accurate understanding of Greed, Hatred, or Enlightened understanding, pertaining to MISUNDERSTANDING ABOUT GREED, HATRED, DELUSION Misunderstanding due to Ignorance involves the knowing is the Mind, and the known object Taste, Touch, Dharmas. With such Ignorance, the Four Noble Truths Path are all located in the external scenes not in the Mind. Ordinary beings understand Suffering and the circumstances. The Cessation of Suffering is Happiness, comfortable Thus, naturally, the Path to the Cessation replacing uncomfortable and neutral circumstances Once the Sense Bases contact and recognize Ignorant Consciousness will arise, determining or Neutral, and Ignorance regarding the Four For Comfortable objects, Attachment or Greed object brings Happiness, ends Suffering. For Uncomfortable objects, Aversion or Hatred object will bring Suffering. For Neutral objects, neither liking nor disliking Comfortable object to replace this Neutral objects bring Suffering, only Comfortable This Seeking behavior is called Delusion. The behavior of Greed towards Comfortable is easy to recognize, but Delusion towards detect. Delusion leads to the intention towards another person's life, while Greed and Hatred only Both Enlightened and ordinary beings can recognize of them differs significantly. Ordinary beings' understanding of Greed, Hatred, GREED: SENSUAL DESIRE, CRAVING FOR EXISTENCE, Sensual Desire: Ordinary beings perceive the as the inherent good nature of humans. Anyone who does not enjoy happiness, beauty, gentle touches is considered insane. Without the greed for happiness, there would comfort, beauty, fame, love... and the values Sensual desire, the greed for material and by life. All media and fields such as music, poetry, aim to encourage, inspire, and incite people Without sensual greed, how could there be without love, how could poetry, music, art, How could humanity survive? Without greed, how could there be maternal the homeland, nation, and people? Craving for Existence: Is the craving for Humanity deems life as noble, mysterious, is suffering, entering into the unknown, indefinite, Thus, humanity craves life, desires to live This is a human instinct, and thanks to this Without the craving for life, humanity would of life. Craving for existence, though subtler and much more intense. Craving for Non-Existence is the craving for bliss, the joy of liberation realms when there of the body. The liberation realms of different religions religion, but without Craving for Non-Existence, happiness, religion could not exist, and if of humanity would be in a deadlock because life. Without Craving for Non-Existence, the practitioners to endure hardships in their practice. HATRED: AVERSION, ANGER, AND ANIMOSITY TOWARD Humanity understands Hatred as an appropriate leads to actions that protect interests that benefits for oneself. Hatred is seen as the best response to violence, dignity. Without Hatred, there would be no indignation protect one's homeland and country, no ability harmed us. Without Hatred, there would be no strength nor to protect the noble values that humanity DELUSION: SEEKING BEHAVIOR FOR A PLEASURABLE Delusion is the behavior of seeking a pleasurable words, searching for happiness (joy) here Existence, and Craving for Non-Existence. Thanks to Delusion, humanity has invented airplanes, computers, audiovisual devices, Without Delusion, this world could not emerge and ignorance of the primitive era; there no material and spiritual life as we know Delusion is not stupidity but the driving of seeking happiness here and there is the force behind invention and creativity. Humanity's understanding of Greed, Hatred, described. This understanding has been accumulated, stored bank&quot; of each person. So, when the path of Wrong View of ordinary information, and Wrong Contemplation analyzes misunderstands Greed, Hatred, and Delusion Humanity lives with such understanding of this life, operates based on them. For ordinary beings, when the mind harbors Greed; when the mind harbors Hatred, one is mind harbors Delusion, one is aware that the awareness is a misunderstanding of the truth, Delusion are good, reasonable, leading to With such recognition of Greed, Hatred, and Chapter 4. How Did Buddha Realize the Truth About Greed, Humanity perceives Greed, Hatred, and Delusion and end suffering. However, the truth is not so. Greed, Hatred, and Delusion may bring temporary but they give rise to another form of suffering, Greed, Hatred, and Delusion merely exchange to end suffering or achieving the ultimate Take, for example, a woman who believes her having a compatible partner. But when she finds a partner she harmonizes loneliness only to discover that the happy other forms of suffering, perhaps even more An author in a piece titled &quot;I Want to Be desire to return to being six years old, to joy found in simplicity, to a state of not Now as an adult, mature, successful, having having a family, spouse, children, owning knowledge about science, the world, people, the Good, and the Beautiful, but comparing &quot;I Want to Be Six Again.&quot; From this example, the wise can infer how from its ultimate goal of Ending Suffering. Buddha's enlightenment revealed that Greed, or liberation from suffering. Instead, they are the very chains that bind His insight showed that the true path to ending of these mental states, seeing them not as be overcome. Through his teachings on the Four Noble Truths, suffering, its origin, cessation, and the the importance of wisdom, ethical conduct, true freedom and happiness and Delusion, the world would remain in darkness, But what is the purpose of development, of humanity to the ultimate goal of Ending Suffering? Thousands, even tens of thousands of years backwardness, and humans were in suffering. Yet today, despite the world's development, suffering; instead, the problems and sufferings No matter how much the world develops, humans aging, illness, death, not getting what they what they dislike, and the suffering of despair This means as long as there is attachment the Five Grasping Aggregates, there will be or wealth of the world can end human suffering. Human efforts driven by Greed, Hatred, and happiness will never end suffering. For instance, Elvis Presley, despite reaching by humanity as at the peak of happiness, what It was: &quot;Why do I keep seeking, when disappointment This refrain, repeated over and over in his admission: he spent his life seeking happiness, Unlike the ignorant understanding of humanity conditions, in the world of Form, Sound, Smell, understand the truth: Suffering arises within mind, and it is Greed, Hatred, and Delusion. GREED AS THE CAUSE OF SUFFERING essentially a pleasant feeling or joy, ordinary joy. Due to clinging to this joy and attaching and fades away, suffering such as sorrow, in that person. The arising of suffering upon losing joy, of Change. PLEASURABLE OBJECT (JOY) - GREED - ATTACHMENT If there is joy without greed for it, then it, so when it changes, fades away, sorrow, arise. Therefore, greed for joy is the Cause of Suffering. Greed for a pleasurable object leads to the effort, thus suffering arises; effort without what one has gained brings suffering; losing Daily life observations reveal that greed Because of greed for joy, there are killings, consumption. Because of greed for joy, there is strife classes, and nations. Because of greed for joy, there are countless mutual harm. Because of greed for joy, people produce and modern weapons, nuclear bombs, and chemical Because of greed for joy, countless crimes This is Sensual Desire, the greed for sensual Craving for Existence is the craving for life of rebirth, aging, illness, and death in the Craving for Non-Existence is the craving for to the suffering of numerous austere religious Suicide bombings by extremists aiming for wives are also a manifestation of Craving HATRED AS THE CAUSE OF SUFFERING UPON SUFFERING an unpleasant feeling or suffering, ordinary or hatred towards this suffering, termed Hatred. Due to Hatred towards suffering, there is Because of this attachment, sorrow, lamentation, This type of suffering in Buddhist terminology Unpleasant Object (Suffering) - Hatred - Attachment Observe This In Life To Gain Insight. Delusion As The Cause Of Conditional Suffering When there is a neutral object, essentially joy, ordinary beings influenced by Ignorance to replace the neutral one. Due to Delusion, there is attachment to the sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief, and despair This suffering is termed Conditional Suffering Neutral object (Neither suffering nor joy) Suffering The search for a pleasurable object to replace a pleasurable object, resulting in Suffering resulting in Suffering upon Suffering; encountering Conditional Suffering as described. This Deluded mind seeks happiness in the past, joy and sorrow with the past and future, wandering giving rise to Conditional Suffering. Imagine a person who, if left alone in solitude of entertainment, would continuously think would be in great distress facing that neutrality In the dying moments, Delusion seeking a state consciousness, continuing the cycle of birth, of these conditions. Conclusion YOUR REAL WORLD IS SENSATIONS, In this world, anyone, regardless of age, for the Enlightened Ones who have realized Pleasurable objects with Greed arising, experiencing Unpleasant objects with Hatred arising, experiencing Neutral objects with Delusion arising, experiencing This is a universal truth, the Truth about The Suffering of Change, Suffering upon Suffering, mind, not in the external environment of Form, The cause of Suffering is Greed, Hatred, and from external circumstances. Regardless of whether circumstances are satisfactory and Delusion, suffering arises. This is also a universal truth, the second Truth of the Cause of Suffering. Thus, wisdom, recognition, clear seeing, and Delusion not only require an accurate understanding but also a comprehensive understanding according Meaning: Wisdom recognizes Greed, Hatred, and Delusion beneficial as the delusion of ordinary beings. Wisdom understands the dependent origination on the path of the ordinary mind's Wrong Contact - (Feeling - Thought) - Wrong - Greed or Hatred or Delusion When the Sense Bases contact triggers Sensation by Wrong Attention, it activates ignorant about Greed, Hatred, and Delusion) stored bank,&quot; and Wrong Thinking arises to analyze, mine or not mine, and the information about activated by Wrong Attention. Because of such Wrong Thinking, arises the content about the Four Noble Truths, about Path, about Greed, Hatred, and Delusion. Such Wrong View consciousness is the cause, and Delusion.