I want you to begin tonight as we return to chapter 7, verses 21 to 27...Matthew chapter Here are the words of our Lord Jesus Himself. And they are stunning words, shocking words, &quot;Not everyone who says to Me, 'Lord, Lord,' does the will of My Father who is in heaven. Many will say to Me on that day, 'Lord, Lord, And in Your name cast out demons and in Your And then I will declare to them, 'I never lawlessness.' Therefore everyone who hears these words of a wise man who built his house upon the rock. And the rain descended and the floods came house and yet it did not fall for it had been And everyone who hears these words of Mine foolish man, who built his house upon the And the rain descended and the floods came house and it fell and great was its fall.'&quot; Perhaps this is the most tragic text in all The reality is there will be people one day will assume that they are about to enter heaven This is the worst possible illusion that someone destiny, to be mistaken about your salvation. I'm often asked the question, &quot;Are Roman Catholics And I would pose this question, &quot;Are Protestants How about another question, &quot;Are evangelicals But a more important question than any of Could be that you're among the many who are You're not alone. I am convinced that in the name of Christianity churches and they're not churches. And they have men leading them who call themselves And they have congregations who call themselves They're not churches, they're not pastors, post the label Christian. Now we learned in our message last time, from possible options. There is a narrow gate that goes to heaven but goes to hell. The narrow gate is hard to find and hard to denial of self-righteousness, recognition commitment to obey Him and follow Him no matter It's hard to find that truth and hearing it, of self and the love of sin which is natural The true way to heaven is hard to find. It is away from the crowd. It is narrow, you come naked, you come alone, You strive to enter. At the same time, most religious people are false prophets who are enabling them. They are discussed, by the way, in verses The false prophets, the false religious leaders, agents of God who really are the agents of as angels of light, leading people on a road For all the years of my ministry, there has my concern for this issue. Of course it's a tragedy for Hindus to go It's a tragedy for atheists and Jews who reject It's a tragedy for anyone to go to hell. But it seems to me that the tragedy of all where you hang around Jesus but end up belonging That's the real tragedy. There are pastors who fit into this category, And churches are filled with people, some all of non-Christians who are deceived about And so, it's important for us to hear the If I'm concerned about this issue, believe And when the Lord said these words, He was speaking to fastidiously religious people. He was speaking to people who were religious They were obsessed with religion. In fact, they couldn't divorce their social their family life, their national life from It permeated everything in Israel. These are THE most religious people. These people are as religious as you can get. But they have no relationship to God and no They are religious but lost. They are on the wrong road. To borrow the words of Paul, they have a form They are self-deceived. We have that today, as I said. It is everywhere...everywhere. People who in some way or another are connected devoid of any divine life, any knowledge of We have multitudes of deceived souls within thinking all is well. And the words of our Lord in this text really And I'm sure it's not just a deception that's a deception that is here within us. Of course it would be the tragedy of all tragedies, will continue to occur that someone would &quot;But, Lord, but, Lord,&quot; only to hear, &quot;Depart knew you.&quot; Our Lord had this concern even in the Olivet He told a story in the twenty-fifth chapter the trappings for the great event, waiting celebration. Only one thing was missing. What they needed on the inside, oil to light of not having anything on the inside of spiritual they had all the external trappings. I suppose the shocking word here, at least of verse 22, &quot;Many will say to Me on that And I can't help but tie that word back to broad way through the wide gate.&quot; It's the same many. It's the religious but lost. It's the same many who go on the broad road It's the same many who when they come to the to heaven only to find that the entrance to of...the entrance to hell, rather, is from What a shock that is to think you're on the hell. What lulls people into this deception? What does it? How could you get to that place where you're self-deception, even unaware of it. Well let me suggest some things. There are some things that contributed to And I would say, first of all, is a superficial way...permeates if not dominates quote/unquote terms of the gospel, the real definition of We have such a weak and shallow and superficial approach to the gospel that most people who a meaningful explanation of the great doctrines They don't know them. Nor are they expected to know them because know them either. And so people have a false understanding of even understand what saving faith and what And you would think that someone like myself trying to clarify the gospel and clarify what means to genuinely put your faith in Christ, means would be some kind of a hero to the is, I'm an anti-hero, I'm treading, as it comfortable bed of their tolerances, I'm being But the truth always does that...always does The church is so ignorant about the gospel very liable to be vilified for it by the church. I picked up another article today that was pages long, attacking me for what I say it man who is a Christian pastor. I tell you to preach the true gospel in the in more warfare than to preach the true gospel So the first reason why people can be lulled know the definition of the gospel. They can sit in a quote/unquote meeting somewhere who poses as a Christian pastor, and surrounded to feel good about whatever situation they're The second contributor to this is a false The idea is that if you feel good about God, to God which might be called love, if you Jesus, and you want to sort of associate with and you want Jesus to kind of work with you And this will be affirmed. You will be told if you just pray this prayer, You'll be certified. In some cases if you come to an altar and certified. In some cases if you show some kind of faithfulness all about Jesus, quote/unquote. That's a certification. But mostly if you feel good about Jesus and life, you'll be affirmed, you're okay. As long as you say you want Jesus in your Jesus and as long as you pray to Jesus and show the right emotional responses to the you're okay. In fact, you'll be built up. You'll be affirmed regularly. God loves you and He loves you unconditionally. And all He wants to do is fulfill every dream And you're here and you're showing your love you're going to be just blessed. And so, both the lack of definition in the everybody feel good and to assure them that the people who talk about Jesus, lures people are right with God. And they're not. There's a third thing. A failure at self-examination...a failure When somebody says to me, &quot;I'm not sure I'm response? &quot;Well, of course you are. You're here. Have you ever prayed the prayer? Have you gone to the prayer room? What are you talking about, of course you're You have a Bible. Hey, you have a MacArthur Study Bible, you What do you mean?&quot; But if anybody says to me, &quot;I'm not sure I'm reason you may feel you're not a Christian It's much more important to demand an honest somebody's doubts. If you doubt your salvation, there's a reason It may not be a legitimate one, but it may You may have every right reason to doubt that You may have every right reason to doubt that And until I can see a pattern in your life doubt, and that you're succumbing to temptation then I can't be certain. I'm going to question the fact that if you But that's not popular. In fact, the words that I'm saying right now in many, many quote/unquote Christian churches. What? You are calling into question people's salvation? Who do you think you are? Well I'm only endeavoring to make certain to bear upon this generation, that people their relationship to God and there are many, This is not my message, this is the message passing the message on. And we're so grace oriented. We want people to feel so good. We want people to like us. We don't like confrontation. So we don't want to call people's spiritual We're so grace oriented, we don't want them to feel happy about God's love. But that's not biblical. In 2 Corinthians 13:5 there is a word that Apostle Paul to a church, to a church where to a church where people had professed Christ, been taught by Paul, the Corinthian church, Corinthians, he's already written three other that aren't in Scripture. This is a church that has heard so much from And by the time you come to chapter 13 here, to them just in the two epistles that are And yet he says to them in chapter 13 verse faith, examine yourselves. Do you not recognize this about yourselves you fail the test?&quot; After years of ministry under the Apostle and from his emissaries sent to that church and confessing Christ, he says, &quot;You must yourselves to see whether you are really in In fact, this should happen in the life of What do you mean by that? Every time you come to the Lord's table, 1 to the Lord's table, as often as you eat this proclaim the Lord's death till He comes, therefore the Lord in an unworthy manner,&quot; and that for sure, &quot;shall be guilty of the body and If you are a false Christian and you take &quot;Let a man examine himself.&quot; Every time you come to the Lord's table, it If you don't do that, if you're unwilling a comfort zone in your self-delusion. There's a fourth matter that I think seduces religious activity...a fixation on religious Being in a church, being with people who call quasi-Christian literature, talking about spiritual, even being in a Bible study, being This lulls people into the deception that O my, Christianity is filled with people in Just think of all the Christian organizations, Think of all the Christian publishing, books, television, radio. It's endless. How many people are involved in all of this? Think of all the churches from Roman Catholicism, that purports to be Christian, including cults, denominations, all the way down to every different And churches now pop up everywhere, the idea You're not supposed to be called or gifted to be entrepreneurial. Everywhere these churches pop up and then personality of the leader. And they involve people. I just got a little deal somebody showed me my part of town. The New Techno Church, and it features break in the New Techno Church. Now that's involving a lot of people. And when they meet, it says, when you come your turntable and you can be a disc jockey...and It involves all kinds of people who feel like And we laugh at that because it's so absolutely beyond all tragedies. Religious activity everywhere...everywhere. There's a fifth feature that I think lures fair exchange approach...a fair exchange approach. It's so typical. It usually starts like this, I'm basically in God and you're a good person as over against hour day, most hours in that day you're not That's the way it works. It's all about stacking up the hours. How many hours a day do I commit crimes? Well, it's a rare day when I do a crime, but do a crime, so I'm basically good. Or how many hours a month am I raping someone. Occasionally, but most of the time I'm basically That's how it works. They sort of balance off the timetable. We tend to also balance off our sin with something Hey look, I support my family...I support Yeah, I know I stumble once in a while and Income Tax, but I'm telling you this, I take League, I'm a good dad. Really? Yeah, God wouldn't keep me out of heaven, in Jesus, I'm basically a good person. Now, of course, that's the biggest lie in You have to forget in order to buy that lie So it's not until you're ungodly and you know know it. But when you come to the knowledge that you be justified...but not until. This works for most people. Some bad over here, some good over here, balance...I'm God certainly couldn't keep me out of heaven. There's another element in this little list of assurance. Familiarity with biblical morality...familiarity I don't deny what the Bible says, I believe I'm not pro-homosexual, I'm not anti-marriage, I agree with that. I think sexual activity should be between I hold that morality, I must be on my way And there are lots of people who fit into Take, for example, the Mormons. They say this is their way of life...although I'm not certainly trying to twist the Scripture. Look, I don't have any argument with the Bible. Actually I don't know what it says, but I Bible advocates and I'm for them. And all these things are just a big deception to do with your salvation...none of them. The real issue is this, people who are deluded narrow gate. They have failed to come through the narrow What does that mean? Repentance for sin, confession of sin, submission contrition, obedience to the Word of the Lord Martyn Lloyd-Jones wrote, &quot;What our blessed Scripture calls our hearts.&quot; He wants the inner man, the heart, He wants He does not want merely our profession, our He wants us. God does not want our offerings. He does not want our sacrifices. He wants our obedience. He wants us. It is possible for a man to say the right apparently wonderful results and yet not to And that is, finally, the greatest insult What could be a greater insult, says Lloyd-Jones, busy and active and yet to withhold true allegiance control of our own lives and to allow our of Scripture to control what we do and how This is the greatest insult of all to the And the deceived come in several categories. There are the superficial. They are the ones who call themselves Christians they accepted Christ. We'll use that buzz phrase. Or they believed in God. They are ignorant and they are uncommitted. I call them superficial because they have event in their life, probably reinforced by They think there's a real connection to God But they're just kind of superficial, it's They think they've put that to rest. They've settled that issue. They've taken care of that sort of necessary And the only time you ever see them is on When they roll into the church on Easter, you won't see them again till then. And then there are the deceived who are not involved. They're all through the church. Jesus called them tares sown among the wheat. They know more about the church. They know about the life of the church, they're They know a little bit about the Bible. They know Bible stories. They know what the buzz phrase is, the Jesus They could tell you some Bible stories. They know a little bit of theology, just enough But there's no real humility, there's no brokenness, They're just there. They're involved. They don't think deeply about things. They're not trying to be deceivers. They're not trying to be false Christians. They are, but they don't really know it. They're just kind of going along with the my people, this is where I belong. And so you have the superficial, then you And then you have, thirdly, the hypocrites. They know they're not believers. They show up on church on Sunday and they to pornography, illicit relationships, wicked Oh the involved, they're trying to work on morality and trying to be as good as they pretty tough...actually impossible. But the hypocrites, they've given up trying to be one thing when they show up at the church who they are. Are deceived? Oh I think the superficial probably are really I think the involved are deceived and they I think, for the most part, the hypocrites, I don't know what they think they're going Now let's say you're here in a church like And you say, &quot;Okay, we've got some tares here, doing things in the church. They're involved. They're working at this Christianity thing. We've got some other folks who show up now ones. And we've got some well crafted hypocrisy by some people who have been practicing it How are we going to help these people? How do we get to these people to unmask them What do you look for? How can a deceived person know he's deceived. How can we spot someone who is deceived and Let me give you a few suggestions. And by the way, in this message I'm only giving Here's what to look for. When you're looking for people who are deceived, blessings, experiences, healings, angels, of the faith, not in Christ. They're not consumed with the glory and the magnificence of Christ. They're not consumed with honoring Him, loving to Him, exalting Him, proclaiming Him, worshiping They're only there for the byproducts of that give me spiritual experience, give me a spiritual give me prosperity. That's an interesting thing to realize that a small part of the larger Pentecostal Movement. Now it has swallowed the whole movement. The whole movement is predicated on giving products of Christ, but not Christ. They're not looking for Christ. Let me have Christ whether I'm sick or well. Let me have Christ whether I'm rich or poor. Let me have Christ whether I'm alive or dead. Let me have Christ for my sins and Christ for my King. I don't care whether I have anything but Christ. That's not what you hear today. In fact, if that's you message, it's very So when you're looking for people who might only the byproducts that are going to be what And as John Piper says, &quot;The gospel does not naturally.&quot; What does the natural sinner want? Huh, good feelings, blessings, healing, happiness, working for him, all unregenerate people want That's not the product of the work of the The gospel does not promise the sinner what It promises what the sinner does not want heaven and dominating all of that, Christ. And what is the attitude of the world toward They hate Him. That's why we study about Christians being You'll be hated by all because of My name. They hate Me, they'll hate you. The unregenerate man has no affinity for the on his way to hell, desperately in need of And to get that salvation he has to abandon So you look for the people who are looking unredeemed condition, rather than Christ. Secondly, you can look for people who are committed to quote/unquote churches and Scripture, very likely is a social thing. Oh not just purely social, but it's sort of Ah, it feels good to be involved in a God And you even hear people say that. Hey, come and meet with us, we have a God It's a kind of a God social amalgam. And that's what they're committed to, not How could you be committed to God and not How can you say, &quot;Oh yeah, I really want to Okay, you want to connect with God? Here's what God says. Confess your sin, repent and embrace His Son That's the first thing He says. And if you don't agree to do that, you're Now do you want to hear the next thing God Maybe we could start there and then we'll and follow Him.&quot; Then we could work on, &quot;Hate your father, even your own life.&quot; And then we'll talk about count the cost. Wait a minute, He's asking all that? And then, by the way, the Law of God is the holy nature and the Law of God doesn't change, What? Which is another way of saying everything Everything you hate to do now you have to Are you ready for that? Look for people who have a commitment to some that is far more than their commitment to the Word of God. I'm not under any illusions. I know why people come to this church. I know why you're here. You're here because you take the Word of God And this is not a dog and pony show. Look, I get up here every week and do the There's no variety in this church. But you're not looking for a variety act here. It isn't a juggler this week and a dancing You don't need to be entertained. You don't need a rock band. You're here for one reason, tell me what the That's why you're here. I know that. We all know that. That's why we're here. And sometimes people will say, &quot;Well, you while but it was a fifteen minute drive and Really? Do they teach the Bible there? &quot;Oh no, no...not like you do. But it's close to where we are.&quot; Oh, okay, yeah. Not hard to figure out where you're at, is There's one reason people come here and one don't want the constant exposure. I wouldn't come here if I didn't want to hear I'd take about one sermon from me and say, Look, if you don't listen to the Word of God, this isn't the place to be because nothing So if you're waiting for the new wave to show There's a third kind of person you might look They're more involved in theology as an academic I hate to say it but seminaries all over this a academic interest in Scripture, an academic all. And so whatever they think the Bible means the natural man even though he's a scholastic, It's no wonder that seminaries full of liberal get Genesis right, can't get the Old Testament people no matter how well they're educated right. Because, as 1 Corinthians 2 says, only the the Spirit can give understanding. So you look for people who have an academic than an interest in the Word of God for the You know, that's the two things that I draw The first thing is the work of the Word in It's like a knife, John 15, that prunes. It's like water that washes. And the second element is that it not only of a true believer, but it also enables us Every new passage releases new things about Every verse that I go to, and I go so slowly of cacophony of angelic voices praising God me. And so what do I draw out of Scripture? That which produces personal growth and holiness worship. I never read the Bible for academic reasons...never. Another thing to look for in a person who on one point of theology. I have run into these people all my life. They deal with only one over-emphasized point to expound this sort of wacky view. And when they write me letters, you know these never spaced down all sides of the paper and And everything they say is all about the same And all they want is a platform, driven by You're going to find with true Christians quirky aspect of theology, but rather there all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge Another and I'll just give you two more, another people who might be in a condition of being in the name of grace...they are over-indulgent Another way to say that is they lack penitence. With true Christians, there's just an ongoing There's just an ongoing kind of recognition We are the ones always confessing our sins being ones that are always forgiven. When you find people who are over-indulgent right to conduct their life in a certain way of super-grace, indulgent grace, and they of humility, it might well be that you're And just one last one, and we've kind of talked number six, look for people who see God as as the means to their own ends. I want to be...I want to get to God because I've got all these plans, I've got all these if you tell me God will help me get there, He's a heretic. That's not Christianity. That is not Christianity. And that is not a church. It's heresy. God is not the genie in your bottle who jumps wishes.&quot; That is not Christianity. It doesn't even approximate true Christianity. You need to help those people who see God Sad to say, people who live like this even and sometimes hang around real churches and they are on the road to destruction. They're among the many who will say, &quot;Lord, Only to hear, &quot;Depart from Me, I never knew These are the people who think they're going Now with that, we introduce this text. I'm glad you still think that's humorous. That gives me hope that there is a future. We're going to return to this text and we're of the most provocative and powerful of all Profession without possession, the tragedy But for now, we bow in prayer and thank the Father, it is such a tragic thing to think lives that will be destroyed when the rain comes in the end who will stand at the tribunal Only to hear, &quot;I never knew you. Depart from Me, you workers of iniquity.&quot; Father, we know that all are deceived who and begun to do Your will. What marks a true believer? They as we heard in baptism tonight are not of righteousness. On the other hand, if we look at this all Consumed with the love of Christ, consumed to be holy and righteous, longing to be humble obedient from the heart, longing to worship, get enough worship...all these evidences of And, Father, we would pray that if there are their true spiritual condition, Lord, may Give them a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. Give them an overwhelming love for Christ. Give them a desire to humble themselves, turn submitting to a sovereign and all-gracious, Give them a desire to worship. Free them from the longings of the natural Fill their hearts with the longings that belong humility, holiness, worship. Now, Father, just do your work, that's all Ours is but to bring the truth and to bring blessed Savior. And we pray, Lord, that Your Spirit would heard tonight. We thank You for it in the Savior's name. Amen.