- Hey, everyone. Sorry Apparently, electric companies want you to pay them every Thankfully, I have some just lying around my lair. I think it has a nice glow to it. Holy (beep), that could have Anyway, I found this book and it should teach me how so I don't have to lose my power again. Let's try it. Sponsored by Linode. Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and the It was easier than I thought. There's just a button over And I just had to press it, piece of cake. Now you're probably thinking, Ken, what about the Quick Power And my answer is no, And here's why. One, it violates the Two, it's marketed poorly. And three, it kind of doesn't exist. Probably could have said that one first. So what exactly is Quick Power System? In short, it's an online how to build your own so you can power your home. I don't know what fairytale these product designers are living in, but this is not possible. That's just what's on The Quick Power System has a 33 minute and 55 second or as they like to call it, a short video. And yes, I watched every So today we're gonna then we'll look at their we'll see if we can test and see if it works, let's go. The video starts with a a tactic I've seen used in other videos to try to get your But thankfully, modern web to auto-playing audio. Then we're introduced to Ray Allen, who claims to have a life changing story on how to easily generate And he's gonna tell us about And throughout the whole video, the captions are baked in, and we'll explore why in a And Ray claims to have which over 17,000 people snowstorms and floods. And he positions big saying you'll be outraged to the greedy power companies, and you need to watch this while it's still up. Then Ray says he's a in Memphis, Tennessee. And he tells a story about how and his family lost power. Then he cuts to a clip Doesn't look like him, oh well. He discusses how he felt bad that he could not protect his family, and they had to suffer the cold weather while the power was out. And not to make light of a but just listen to his just clearly Oscar-worthy acting. - [Ray] I felt powerless! And I was furious about the I let it slide and thought, &quot;Maybe it'll be better next year.&quot; - [Ken] He really comes saying he was the only one to blame for getting in this situation. So he set out to create a constant power source that - Like electric, solar, or what? - No, Randal, just pure energy. - [Ken] So then we're introduced and the incredible A spinning principle used in Then Ray says, as you there is the multiplication principle that translates into inducing in a system and multiplies it Yeah, I mean, of course I knew that. I don't know what this dude's He says that a lot. So he says, vaguely, this principle can And the secret is this energy and that this system can recharge itself when it's not being used And Ray mentions uncle Jack has plans and blueprints at his house. So he drove over to examine them, but he couldn't understand them. So he worked with uncle So after all this vagueness, the video finally shows us And soon they achieved a brilliant design, which used only three wooden wheels, a hard cylinder and two Listen, Ray, my man, I don't know if they didn't teach math at your school in Tennessee if that's where you're really from, but let's count how many 1, 2, 3, 4. Hey, math is power! More power than your generator is making. Now at this point in the video, you're probably thinking Ray but pause for a second. I don't think that's a fair thing to say, because that's not a I would call him imbecilic or asinine or probably cuckoo bananas, but fear not, there's still 21 more minutes of scrumptious video to chew through. Mm-mm, I'm excited. So what do you do with all these parts? Well, you simply have to place - Science! - [Ken] Then you can generate an extraordinary amount of energy, which can be converted And at the same time, it powers itself without And it's easy to hook up to any device. Wait, what? That's kind of disappointing. I thought we were making a cool generator to power the whole home. We have to hook up individual Seems a little inconvenient. Then the video shows Ray's which does not match any of the parts shown earlier in the video. And Ray claims this generator - [Computer Male Voice] Not possible. - [Ken] They show multiple and the house is lit up. And Ray says he couldn't Then Ray drove back home with the newly refined plans and lots of blurred footage, apparently. And it worked, wow! Instead of paying $190 they paid nothing! They were running on The video continues showing but it never shows the generator hooked up to any appliances, weird, right? Then Ray says his friends and family were begging to know the secret, and they were having a hard time believing something so small could Yeah, I bet they had a because they probably took, I don't know, a high school physics class and they know that this Anyway, so many people were So he refined the blueprints even further. And boom, the Quick Power System was born. This was a guide showing you how to make this self supplying generator, or as he calls it, a home power plant. And you can cut down your 60% or more? Don't even bother with this generator, just get one of those You can save up to 90% or And clearly good help was 'cause it looks like they who uses Microsoft Publisher 2000 to create this It's beautiful, but hey, the name of the product that's And we're only halfway through the video. Oh my gosh, this is hard. And I love how Ray says you'll be shocked by how few steps there are Yet they show a really thick book, just 10 out of 10 marketing. It's a piece of cake, all you gotta do is read a dictionary five times blindfolded, but It's an online guide? So they didn't even bother Well, I guess you gotta keep those profit margins high somehow. Ray continues talking about the guide and now uses the words to describe the generator. Unlimited, huh? Okay, let's add that to the buzzword pile. Then Ray says Quick Power System is virtually maintenance free. The generator will constantly so there's no fire burning And it's weird because these blueprints and these and everything, but he never shows a single page of this But hey, don't worry about that. Just think about how much You can save 14,000 and maybe even $24,000 after 10 years of using this generator. What are you waiting for? Join the 87,435 families that have already invested which is normally a fair $149. But for a limited time only, uh-uh... you can get it for just $49 that Ray never talks about. So come on, just click the just click it so hard! Seriously, he says click the in the sales video, but We'll talk about that soon. So after lots of repeating he finally wraps up. - [Ray] And I'll look inside that members only area Thanks for watching. Still here? - Don't do that! Yeah, this video is still not over. Ray now moves into an FAQ section. He reiterates on of the sales pitch, and he says there's no because the system powers And after more and more and - [Ray] So go ahead and seize Click the yellow button. - And it's over for real So let's break down the sales video and see what's wrong with it. But first I would like behind this type of video, because the way it's This type of sales video is called a video sales letter or VSL. And I know great ideas have many founders, so other people have probably made similar formulas to this stuff, you'll probably come across I just wanna say Jon Benson is not bad. VSLs are not bad. I have So Jon, we cool, right? What I am saying is bad is and abuse them. VSLs are structured in a specific way to induce a hypnotic effect. That's actually what Jon calls it. - Before I do that, I wanna talk about one of of a VSL, and that is the - [Ken] There's multiple but we'll cover a few. On-screen text, pattern interrupts, open loops, and calls to action. We saw baked in captions throughout the whole Quick Power System VSL, but we also saw white slides only with text on them, nothing else. Both of these traits help and make the video more accessible. Another attribute is a pattern interrupt where the video shows and tells you something unexpected at the beginning, like Ray's bold claims. Those claims peak your curiosity, and now you're more Next is open loops, open loops occur when the but doesn't finish the thought, and he comes back to it later. In fact, you saw me do that let's break down the sales video and see what's wrong with it. But first I would like to Pretty neat, huh? The Quick Power System video after it makes these bold - Before we continue, and how it all started. - [Ken] And the last attribute is calls to action or CTAs. There was a lot of repetition from Ray when he kept saying click And that may sound annoying, It follows the VSL formula and helps more people take an action, click the button, and So now that we have a brief let's break down this horrendous video. There's four big problems Number one, the editing Jon Benson says the can vary from video to video. And typically it's not a big problem, but what I've noticed in my is crappy video usually And that's the same situation here. Ray is filmed on a green screen with green spill on his face, the editor punches in on his frame without punching in the background, making the cuts look awkward, and there's tons of conventional errors in the onscreen captions. And the product image The book doesn't even fit and the laptop's edge Also, there's some awkward So for example, when Ray is talking about plugging in the generator to a TV, the B-roll shows a shot of a gaming PC. Weird choice, but okay. I guess there was a TV in the background, so it kind of counts. And that brings us to problem The B-roll footage never actually plugged into any appliances. And sometimes when the that could look like a And this hardware still doesn't look like the ridiculous wooden wheels The most realistic hardware and I'm pretty sure this cord runs to a power source They never really explain this. And when we finally see this it turns out it's not even a generator, it's a book, and it's not It's a digital book, and we We don't even know if it's real. They don't show any proof If a sales video doesn't show that's a red flag. When apple introduced the iPhone, they showed the fricking phone. Just show what you're trying to sell. Moving on to problem I say this all the time, more inconsistencies And there's many For example, in the over 17,000 people have used, assuming they're talking but later the video says 87,435 So what's the real customer count? Ray never explains this discrepancy. Another example is when he says the system is virtually maintenance free, implying that you may need But in the FAQ section, he says there's no maintenance whatsoever. Another issue is how Ray explains how you hook things up to the generator. In the beginning I think it's fair to say it's implied that he's making a generator that powers your whole home, but then later he talks about plugging in individual devices into the generator. So, which is it? What does that mean? Do you have to have a bunch of generators lying around your house plugged into each one? That sounds kind of inconvenient. Gee, I wish they would show And that brings us to the fourth problem, the biggest problem in this the claims Ray makes about what are 100% impossible to produce. You cannot make a generator and other appliances continuously, especially if it's just Heck, take the whole appliance and wooden wheels things out of there. Let's say you have a legit generator that can somehow connect That's still impossible. It violates the laws of thermodynamics. And unless there's some magical discovery that mankind has yet to decipher, there is no getting around this roadblock. Now, many of you are and going, duh! And that's because you've You have to fill your car with you have to recharge your phone. When you kick a soccer ball, Heck, you even have to sleep Just through life experiences, you realize energy moves You can't have infinite power, I don't like to merely say I like to explain why, so why Let's talk about the physics behind them. Take a look at this spinning fidget toy. When you spin it, you expect it to eventually Why does this happen? First, let's ask ourselves, where does the energy to It comes from our hands Now it's spinning. And the second question is, There's energy spinning but it has to go somewhere. That's where the first comes into play. The first law says energy It can only be transferred That's just how the universe, And unless you're God, you probably don't have a say in this. So in this example, the energy is transferred from But the toy won't spin forever because forces are acting upon it, namely friction and air resistance. The bearings inside the As the materials rub together, the kinetic energy of the spinner is transferred to heat And once the spinner runs out of energy, it will stop spinning, unless acted upon by an outside force. This applies to other contexts too, like the bearings inside a large motor. No motor can generate enough because no motor is 100% efficient. Energy will be lost in the transfer as it's altered into heat Now, when you look into or unlimited power source topic, you may hear about but keep in mind, these Even the famous Drinking Bird, which at a glance seems like it could rock back and forth indefinitely, still needs energy to keep working. The water in a way acts it's power source. If I take away the water, the evaporation will stop because this knack relies on evaporation to affect the chemicals and which affect the bird's balance. You've probably seen ads and although they look cool and they have forever on the name, they can't spin forever too. Even their website says that, because eventually they and just fall over. In fact, the only way I can think of that perpetual motion actually makes sense is when you're - [Narrator] Start with add one ounce of Baijiu, two ounces of Blood orange shake and strain over fresh ice. This cocktail's called &quot;Perpetual Motion.&quot; - Ooh, that's good. It's - [Ken] Special thanks to Go check out his channel, and just look at those So what next? Let's take a look at their I want to thank Windows for helping me research You guys are great, thank you very much. All right, website time. The homepage of the website auto plays the sales video with the headline, &quot;This crazy 45 year old geography teacher in Memphis, Tennessee the energy world, and somehow he did it.&quot; The video does not show a scrubber so it prevents you from fast forwarding, which is a trait commonly They don't want you skipping parts, but if we examine the sauce code, we can see this video is from and it has this amazing thumbnail, must have been the same designer The website also has some annoying popups. Stop, get 45% off, get 40% off, this offer will only appear once! Spoiler alert, it appeared more than once. Wait, by clicking out of this page, you'll forfeit the chance to learn about an amazing solution! Yeah, maybe, but I can just using my modern internet To give them credit, the annoying popups actually gave me a legitimate discount, which I did put in my cart, so Also I noticed this website the Magic Buy Button. - I was the guy that created which is now built into a which is where at a certain they don't see anything but the video, and then everything pops underneath it. - [Ken] The landing page with the video will not show a buy button until a set amount of time passes, in this case, seven minutes. And I think this trick is to convert and watch the video longer, because you're not faced to buy anything right away. It doesn't come up until later after you're more psychologically and in the story. So we've seen the we know the generator can't be made, and now we've seen this so-so website. So with all of those you'd think I'd be smart enough not to purchase this thing, right? Yeah, I went ahead and bought one. (Duck Quack) At least I tried to. The discount did actually but every time I clicked pay now, I get an error saying I tried with two different I tried again in a few I emailed their tech support So I think we're never Maybe it doesn't exist. - [Macintosh Fred] Your satisfaction is really important to us. - I didn't wanna give up there. I wanted to research the internet to see if anyone else bought this thing. So I looked up videos, I looked up images, but I could never find a single page shown from this so-called guide. And I didn't see anybody with their own makeshift All I could find were other in this case really bad - [Male TTS Voice] Hi, my name is Jones, and today I'm going to tell about the Quick Power System - So when you Google Quick Power System, don't expect to see anything legit. Conversely, when you Google Linode, you will find real stuff because these guys are actually If you have a website or application that you need to scale or deploy, Linode has the 24/7 support and the infrastructure that you need. Linode offers out of box apps CS:GO, and even Minecraft. You can run your own virtual build an online application with Joomla's content management system, or build a video streaming site with a multitude of app choices. There's so much you can do with Linode's affordable and to boot, they offer award-winning 24/7 technical support. To put it simply, if it runs Visit Linode.com/ComputerClan and click one of the signup buttons. And when you do that, we'll give you a 60-day $100 credit just for watching this episode. It's a better deal than And also when you do that, you're supporting the Computer So that's the Quick Power System, a seemingly non-existent guide which teaches you to build something that can't physically Great business strategy! And again, I'm not dissing Benson or VSLs. Those things are cool. But what I don't like is to try to sell you snake oil. So really, all the guys that do those Actually, you know what? Maybe they shouldn't, because the more they into the world, the more episodes I get to That's my business strategy. I'll see you all next time, (upbeat music) Still here?