- It's pocha night! - That's so cute. (Wilson screams) (gentle music) - [Aileen] September 12th, 2024. The more I heal and that there is so much love around, that there has always been I just perhaps didn't see it clearly then. When your perception is it can be hard to see love even when it's right in front of you. I think back at all the times I had felt alone and misunderstood as a kid, like no one around me All the times I felt invisible or uncared for when, really, there were for me to share my true I just didn't know how to do that. I didn't know how to connect I had a shell around me. I separated and hid myself, my I was only just surviving on the outside. You can be surrounded by Part of it could be your environment. It's not always safe and but part of it is yourself, your own perception of the your own overthinking mind. If you have not yet learned to accept and embrace your authentic self, it can be hard to show that self to others and to connect with (people chattering) - I know, I like it! (laughs) That's so cute. Oh, should I get it? (people chattering) Yeah. and then put it back in your pocket later. (indistinct chatter) - Pretty. (text pops) (people chattering) - The colors are so cool. - That's very good. I'm grateful to have My mom has 10 siblings, or so cousins that I grew I used to get dropped after school while my so a lot of my childhood was As an introvert and one of of boys, I didn't always enjoy being there, being forced to wait at having to watch TV shows I didn't care for. But of course, there and memories I cherish, and that I had a community, and precious in this modern world. I appreciate my family so much now, and cherish the times I get and evolve through life. Looking back, I learned so since there were so many different people. I got to learn to get along and I got to see life from Since I was one of the I had many examples to learn from. Maybe because I grew and a younger brother, how to make new friends easily, because with such a loud I mostly wanted my own peace and quiet. The opposite of this would single child who craves social connection and learns how to make I'm lucky that most of the came into it naturally without but building and nurturing is an ongoing journey I'm especially aware of it, because I realize how vital to have a community of people you love and interact with often. It's literally one of the factors of longevity. If you've seen those Well, Erin (indistinct). Yeah, but I don't like (indistinct). Look at my hair. I actually (laughs) I like it. (person laughs) - It's nice. - I know I like it. but it's so cool, right? - Yeah, (indistinct). - Yes, yes. Like, in your-. a whole dress with this. - [Person] Oh, she would. She (indistinct) This is Halloween This is Halloween (fireworks popping) (gentle piano music) (upbeat music) (text pops) (upbeat music continues) (upbeat music continues) (upbeat music continues) (upbeat music continues) (text chimes) (text pops) (text pops) (upbeat music continues) (text chimes) (upbeat music continues) (text pops) - [Aileen] We found a wasp, (gasps) It's still alive, I see it. - [Wilson] That's fine. - [Aileen] No, it's still alive. It's under your weights. (relaxing piano music) (relaxing piano music continues) (relaxing piano music continues) (relaxing piano music ends) (text pops) This guy got inside. Oh, oh, uh-oh. - Oh, I got it. Get on here. Just get on here. He's so fat. He's doesn't even fly. Dude, get on this. all the way up there. - Almost, dude. Oh. - Hey! (Aileen laughs) Can we? - Just try it. - [Aileen] Okay. - Like that. Can you hold like that, so I can (indistinct). - [Wilson] Wait, stop. - [Aileen] Oh my God. - [Wilson] No, no, no. Yes, yes, yes, stay on. - [Aileen] Come back, come back. We'll pick you back outside. - [Wilson] Yeah, yeah, right. Step on it, step on here. (Wilson screams) (text pops) (Aileen laughs) Right there? - [Aileen] Oh my God. (laughing) - Oh, there. Oh, he does fly! He does fly. Oh my God. - [Wilson] Go. - [Aileen] Okay, outside, outside. No, no, no. Should I just move the curtain outside? - [Wilson] Yes, yes, yes. Here. Go, go, go. Outside, outside. (screams) Oh, no. - [Wilson] Outside. - [Aileen] Did he stay inside again? Oh my God. Oh my gosh. Okay, oh, okay, okay. - [Wilson] Okay, turn off the lights down. - [Aileen] Turn off. - [Wilson] and then turn on the outside. - [Aileen] Okay. (Aileen laughs) - [Wilson] Keep going, Go, go. Go. - Okay, almost, almost, almost. - Keep going. - Push the curtain outside. - [Aileen] Almost! Go, go, go. Outside, outside. (Aileen groaning) - [Wilson] Where's he? He came back inside. (text pops) - [Wilson] Why does he wanna be in here? Togi, come in. (Aileen chuckling) - [Aileen] Oh! Okay, close, close, close, close. Yay. Quick little OOTD. Good boy, honey. Come here. Ready to get your hair cut? (text pops) - Good boy. (chuckles) It's Friday and tonight, I'm actually hosting a Korean pocha night with so I think that just means, I don't know. I have some things planned. I'm at H Mart, I'm gonna I have 30 minutes to shop, and prepare for everyone to come. (calm music) The more I've grown to embrace the more I've been able to be and build truer, deeper connections. To have the mindset of self-love that you are here for them to support them through everything, that you and you don't need them This non-judgmental, accepting, that's what I aim to foster And also, to be able to have These moments are some of so beautiful and memorable. - [Friend] He just matches everything. - [Aileen] I know. (friends laugh) I was like, &quot;He matches.&quot; They match the aesthetic. Peanut, you found a toy. - [Friend] Sorry. (laughs) - [Aileen] No, it's okay. (friend laughs) My goal is to grow old with a with whom I can laugh, like, a few times a week. Doing art together, and just living life to the It can be tough in the because it's not I'm inspired by the culture in Asia. In China, the elderly to dance in groups, exercise at the park, and go for walks multiple times a day. They garden and share I wonder and hope that I can make that happen in my older years. (friend laughs) We have frozen fish. (friends chattering) I think we have six people, right? This is how Wilson's parents cook. They just go big. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like that's my dad. (Aileen laughs) - It's okay. I wish I could cook (indistinct). - Ah, yeah, I don't know. - It's just me and family. to cook for one to two people. - Me too! - It's pocha night! (friend laughs) - Anyway, it's a reminder and connection are for our wellbeing, and it's something to not something to wait Just as it's important for it's also so important to and connections to others. All types of connections, to the most loving, give They add color, depth, more vibrant perspective on life. Imagine how limited your if you only knew one of someone's life. Like, this is what life looks like. This is what life is. The more people you get to know, the more your world and That's why social media has taught us so much about humanity, Don't take it for granted. I know some people say they but that was when all were either our immediate which is very limited With our world now, more stories are more accessible than ever. We are blessed with more more examples of what life can be. Ultimately, this gives us for our own lives. More possibilities, more options, more colors with which we can choose to create in our own life. We're all interconnected, and those connections have meaning, because we learn from each other, help one another, inspire each other, influence and impact each All right, my loves, I'd love to know who And what does your ideal Please share in the comments below. Thank you so much for the this &quot;Diary of Becoming&quot; series. It's so different from my typical videos, and I really enjoy making them. So here are just some I'd like to highlight. If you'd like to watch more, check out the &quot;Diary of linked in the card as well Don't forget that we'll &quot;Artist of Life&quot; workbook on October 17th at shop.lavendaire.com. I can't wait for you to Sending you lots of love, and I'll see you in the next episode. (uplifting music) (relaxing lo-fi music) (relaxing lo-fi music continues)