Yeah! Ugh! Joke number 1, okay. No, I am kidding. Don't want to waist time, Ah, welcome to the show. How are you guys doing? Thank Yeah. Thank you for coming out. So good to see you here. Oh, it's been a wonderful journey. It's our last tour of before I leave to go to America. I'm gonna go for two weeks &quot;and then when I come back I'm I don't know why people do that. &quot;You know what the worst thing is?&quot; &quot;It's you talking like that.&quot; &quot;That's the worst thing.&quot; Oh, it's been so much fun man. You know, trying to write it's always difficult. The easiest stuff I find to write It's to easy now, it's become... like you give comedians credit. You go, &quot;Oh, he's so but we are not, we are not geniuses. Like the guys, the guys in it's actually, they actually taking It's not cool. Because soon you guys are and you're going to and you are going to start and you are not gonna, &quot;Oh, where are you &quot;Oh, I am going to the Zuma &quot;Bru, like. Yeah guys, You will be like, &quot;can you sign my DVD, You know? It's absolutely crazy. I am glad the rain stopped for a Roads have been flooded and there's been lightning and thunder and you know it's just been crazy these storms are everywhere. and I find myself laughing these You know, especially when where you feel like it's hit because every time I see lightning, I think M.E.C. of safety and security. True genius.True comedic genius. Like we all have our mentors and you No because he came out after what happened And what happened was there and lightning struck the and nine people were killed instantly. There's nothing funny about that. Nine people dead, gone. Nothing funny at all. Although it must have been a bit You're there because someone has died Then it's a bit awkward now. You don't know if carry on here or do you? You don't know but it's a bit you don't know and then you're like do you cause you know there's going to be like one uncle who's I must buy another box? nuh uh. Just&quot; It's just like, you know what I mean? And if you've got like one of those possessive mothers, you know those mothers that love their kids. Probably then she's crying and then everyone's like *lightning sound effects* and then they're dead. Then they're like &quot;ahhh-&quot; and Don't you cry for them, you don't cry for them! You came here for this, You came here! You save your tears and you cry where they- They are freshly dead you can cry for them You don't, you bring those tears here and-&quot; But there's nothing funny about it. And um... And so what happened is on the Monday after MEC came out and held a press conference and and it was very serious. He came out there and the photographers and &quot;We... we have heard... what have happened... on that funeral. And let it be known that... we... will launch a And we will not rest... UNTIL we know... where does this lightning come from?!&quot; not rest. His assistant was He was like, yes up, we want to know! Where does it come from?!&quot; I didn't even make the joke he just said this! I just repeated it to you! It's like, you see? and not it's election time which means politicians kissing babies. Helen Ziegler is dancing You know, you know ANC comes out with a huge campaign &quot;if you are not happy &quot;then you must vote for change.&quot; and I am like, you guys are the ones... &quot;Yeah, but you must... You like,&quot;must we vote &quot;no, don't vote for someone else Yeah, keep it here. &quot;Just keep it here, wow! &quot;Yeah, bring here. No, we'll We'll change just keep You have got the DA chasing after them I mean I like that the DA is the they cant point out everything, like after a while it just DA doesn't tell us what they are going to do they are running around telling &quot;Look at him! Do you want a president Look at that!&quot; &quot;It's just shoe laces.&quot; It's become ridiculous. They chased after the ANC and exposed Did you see that story? The Gupta's. one of the most famous families, who they just own everything, and basically what came out was, they said yes this family runs the Zuma's, they run them. in fact when President Zuma They summoned him, the to they're residential abode and they paraded him in fornt Paraded him. This is what the DA said, paraded. I think they are pushing He wasn't summoned, he was probably You know, it wasn't paraded. Like I am sure he was New president, we are rich, you are President. How you doing, here's some money. It's cool, we understand. Because when you think of paraded, it was sitting there, the whole Gupta's. There they where and they where like, &quot;Everybody sit down his &quot;Sit down, sit down!&quot; &quot;Sit down, buddy. Sit &quot;We got a Zulu man, his coming. Yes, he'll do the dance, sit down. sit down, have you got your popcorn? Okay everybody, dim the light. Dim the lights. Dim the lights, dim the lights. &quot;he's at the doom, start the music!&quot; *Music playing and Zuma posing* Jacob Zuma. *Music playing and Zuma posing* He wasn't paraded. He was invited. And the DA said, &quot;we have to investigate these claims! We need to investigate them!&quot; We said, &quot;Would you?&quot; They said, &quot;we would &quot;We will get the best investigators The DA went out and got the best Investigators so good they found that the Gupta's Ah, priceless.