Hi, I'm Everett Gunther and this is Ultra Ultra Dynamic Sky is a flexible and easy to providing dynamic clouds, time of for your project in minutes. It's features include: Customizable dynamic clouds. You can choose from multiple modes, including Static Clouds. Day and Night animation creates a complete Lights for the sun, moon and sky light are solution to your scene. Stars and moon rendering for vibrant detailed Cloud shadows cast by both the sun and moon Aurora effects can be enabled at night. Either a simple 2D effect to be used alongside replaces clouds. Simulation features allow calculating Sun, coordinates with the date and time. And there are hundreds of exposed settings entire system to suit your project. But Ultra Dynamic Sky isn't just a sky. It also comes with Ultra Dynamic Weather included. Ultra Dynamic Weather is a fully featured with the sky to easily add weather effects Its features include: Effects for rain, lightning, snow and dust. The weather particles have a collision system, to allow things like raindrops creating splash Select from settings presets like Thunderstorm, Sound effects are included for all weather system can quiet them inside interiors. Material effects for making objects wet with snow or dust. A variety of ways to control the current You can manually trigger a weather change Or you can enable random weather variation The likelihood of each weather can be customized, Add a Weather Override Volume to your scene Outline a region using the spline and the is inside. The Dynamic Landscape Weather Effects add simple to implement interaction effects for And just like the sky, there are extensive to fit your needs. Ultra Dynamic Sky is designed to make setup Here I have a scene with no sky or lighting. It's important to make sure you've cleared sky atmosphere, volumetric clouds, or sky To add Ultra Dynamic Sky, just navigate to the scene. And that's it for basic setup. UDS will configure its built in lights for Before we move on, you should also take note Just right click and select Run Editor Utility You can search for specific topics you need There's a lot of additional information here Also, keep in mind that just about every setting what something does, just hover it for an Alright, let's take a look at the settings Basic Controls is where you can adjust things Also, take note of Sky Mode and Color Mode. Sky Mode determines what kind of clouds the It's where you can choose from Volumetric Volumetric Aurora, or No Clouds. Color Mode determines where the sky and lighting By default they use unreal's sky atmosphere to make color more directly adjustable. The Animate Time of Day category is where is played. You can adjust Day Length and Night Length The Volumetric Clouds category is where you of the volumetric clouds. A key setting here is Volumetric Cloud Rendering By default, this is set to Background Only clouds will always be rendered behind objects. If you need them to obscure objects or you're layer, you should change to one of the modes The 2D Dynamic Clouds category is similar, you have that Sky Mode selected. Cloud Movement is where you can adjust the Note that if you're also using Ultra Dynamic set using the current wind. In the Cloud Shadows category, you can adjust cast on the scene. The Cloud Wisps category controls the subtle You can adjust it or change the texture it The Simulation category is where you can enable latitude and longitude coordinates, as well In the Sun category you can adjust the appearance sun light, like its mobility, intensity, and You can also manually position the sun from Sun Target. With that enabled, just select the Sun Target sun. The Moon category is much like the Sun category, Phase or a custom moon texture. In the Sky Light category, an important setting By default the Sky Light Mode is capture based, You can change to modes which dynamically custom cubemap. There are categories beneath for each Sky In the Exposure category, you can adjust or The settings apply an exposure compensation time or weather. The Fog Color and Fog Density categories have of the height fog and how it changes with The Dust category can affect the height fog, This is used by Ultra Dynamic Weather for The Sky Atmosphere category exposes settings controlled by time or weather. These are only used if the Color Mode on UDS Similarly, the Simplified Color category is The settings here determine the sky and lighting static clouds. In the Light Shafts category, you can enable the sun and the moon lights. The Lens Flare category is where you can add In the Stars category, you can adjust the your own custom star textures. The Sky Glow category can add light to the Night Sky Glow adds a soft glow of starlight Light Pollution lights up the night sky from The Aurora category is where you can enable settings to adjust the look of the Volumetric The Interior Adjustments category can allow to be adjusted when the camera is inside an For example, I can use these adjustments to when inside the interior. To set up Ultra Dynamic Weather, first make Then just drag the actor into the scene. It will hook itself up to UDS and you should You can change the weather by selecting one There's Partly Cloudy, Overcast, Foggy, Light and more. But if you want to create your own, you can, Presets folder and changing their settings. If no preset is selected for Weather, the defined here in the category below. Next are the categories for adjusting the Shared settings used by all three. You can set how many particles will spawn, The Season can be either set using the date The Season variable itself is a float from In the Random Weather Variation category, its behavior. The way the Random Weather Variation works and transitioning to it. The probability of each weather is determined In each map is all the weather presets that for each. The Material Effects category is where you with weather. If &quot;Material Effects Take Time to Change&quot; like Time for Materials to Gather Snow and The values are all in seconds. In the Wind Debris category, you can enable particles to the air when the wind is high. The Lightning category has settings to adjust obscured lightning which softly lights up In the Sound Effects category, you can toggle Sound Occlusion is where you can disable or sounds inside interiors. You can adjust the amount of that attenuation the occlusion. The Dynamic Landscape Weather Effects category associated material function of the same name, In the Wind Direction category, you can enable Volumetric Fog Particles and Post Process fog with heavy weather. Volumetric Fog Particles will be used if Volumetric Fog otherwise. In the Screen Droplets category, you can enable and dripping water on the camera, when exposed The Rainbow category has an option to enable based on a threshold of rain or fog. The Temperature category controls the output Temperature is derived from season, time of this category. In Wind Actor, you can select a Wind Directional current wind intensity and direction. Lastly, let's go over how to add weather effects Here I am in a rainy scene with a simple example materials to have weather effects for wetness. Let's start with the static mesh. I'll open the material it's using and search functions. For this static mesh, the one I want to add Weather Effects. I'll hook up the inputs for the attributes Base color, roughness, and a normal map. And connect those outputs as well. I'll plug in a value of True for Apply Dripping down the surface. And for this, I'll plug a value of 1 into at full strength across the whole object. Now I'll compile, and we have the material and a dripping effect down the surface. For the landscape, we'll use the function Landscape Weather Effects. Before we make the change to the material, Effects&quot; on UDW. The setup in this material will be similar, function. This material is using a matterial attributes the inputs for the function. The node for that is Break Material Attributes. Now I'll plug in the Base Color, Metallic, To recombine the material attributes for the node. I'll Set all the attributes that the function Base Color, Metallic, Specular, Roughness, Now I'll compile and the ground is wet with As a last step, we can make it so our character's in snow, using the DLWE Interaction component. In the character BP, I'll select the character On the component, for it's parent socket, Then I'll move the component to the center And I'll just do the same for the left foot. Now, we have the character's feet causing For more information on the features of UDS And if you have any specific questions or email, at everettgunther@gmail.com. Thanks for watching.