Everyone knows the name of the first of the Mercury was first seen in ancient times, and We've known of its existence for thousands It is not hidden in darkness, but thanks to brilliant light. And yet, it is the least explored terrestrial in all of our spacefaring history. Why is that? Is it boring? What do we truly know about Mercury? What are its characteristics and history, I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching And in watching this supercut, you're about Join with me as I teach you everything you in our Solar System, Mercury. Now when you think about the physical characteristics the closest planet to the Sun, but also that You wouldn't be too far wrong with that, you may first think. For example, when I look at Mercury, I do But Mercury actually is visually more appealing Look at it in its true colour. The first thing that I notice is that it actually It's not just different shades of grey. And what else? Well did you know, for example, that Mercury 30% silicate materials. It's actually more metallic than rocky. Because of this, Mercury's density is the grams per centimetre cubed, only slightly - that of Earth at 5.515 grams per centimetre If Mercury happened to be the same size as much the same gravitational pull as its surface. But being the size that it is, its surface If you were to compare its gravity to Earth, This means the surface gravity of Mercury and considering that Mars is a much bigger density of Mercury. Before we leave the subject of Mercury's - that of Ganymede and Titan against Mercury. Now Ganymede is the solar system's biggest while Titan is Saturn's biggest moon and the These two giant moons are bigger than Mercury far less. If you look closely at Mercury's surface, of our Moon. It shows extensive mare like plains and heavy inactive for billions of years. But it obviously was geologically active at features of Mercury's surface is the presence hundred kilometres in length. We'll talk more about these later. One of the most distinctive things you'll its surface called Caloris Basin, with a diameter The impact that created Caloris Basin was a concentric ring over two kilometres tall At the antipode of Caloris Basin is a large weird terrain. If you compare this region to the rest of name. So, what's it like on the surface of Mercury? Well, to start with, the surface temperature It can range from minus 173 degrees Celsius It never rises above minus 93 degrees on the retaining the heat. This means that there's quite a big difference variation is also due to its orbit and rotation The subsolar point reaches about 400 degrees are, on average, minus 163 degrees Celsius. Because Mercury is too small and hot for its over long periods of time, it's not able to so close to the Sun, which is why the dark the side facing the Sun. Mercury, however, does have an exosphere, like volume surrounding the planet. Molecules in an exosphere are gravitationally that it can't behave like a gas because the In this picture you can the MESSENGER probe's When solar wind hits the planet, it rips off left is this trail of atoms going into space. We call this the planets tail, and every planet Earth even does have an exosphere, but it It's really the point where space and the Now, in the case of Mercury, this exosphere Atoms are continuously lost and replenished in more detail later. NASA has been able to confirm that craters ice. Mercury also has something which Mars lacks, all around the planet. It is only about 1.1 percent as strong as deflect a lot of the solar wind around the Now we're going to get to one of the things Its orbit and its rotation. Mercury has the most eccentric orbits of all ranging from 46 million kilometres to 70 million Now, this is something a bit hard to imagine, Mercury takes about 88 Earth days to complete It also has a 3-2 spin orbit resonance of This means it spins three times around its the Sun. It takes about 59 Earth days for Mercury to call a sidereal day. By pure coincidence, this is almost exactly which is 116 days, so between conjunctions axis exactly twice. Historically, there was a big problem with Because of this coincidence, we believed that the longest time. You see, Mercury orbits closely around the to get a good look at it for most of its year. When it finally got in a good viewing angle the face of the planet. 118 days later, we'd have another look during the same face again. So, to them, it showed that Mercury was tidally What astronomers didn't realise is that during this time. It wasn't until radar observations of the faster than it orbits. This 3:2 orbital resonance means that if you appear that one day - from sunrise to sunrise, years. Standing on Mercury, that would look something You would see the Sun rise relatively fast, down and even starts going backwards before As you can see, that took a whole year, which year. The Sun starts going backwards in the sky perihelion, the speed in which Mercury travels it is rotating. At this point, the Sun's apparent motion stays At perihelion itself, Mercury's orbital a person actually standing on Mercury, the Four days after perihelion, the sun's normal You can see this even clearer from a top-down Twice a day on one of its poles, the Sun seems Something else to note about Mercury's orbit plane of Earth's orbit. As a result of this, we can only see Mercury between us on Earth and the Sun itself. And because its orbit is inclined by seven 7 Earth years. The last thing we'll discuss about the rotation zero, with the best measured value as low This is even smaller than that of Jupiter And finally, do you want to see Earth from Well, here we are, just a couple of pixels This photo was taken from the MESSENGER probe every single one of us was in this picture. But what was MESSENGER, and why was it important? Well, let's start with a little context. When mankind first started sending spacecraft planet to be visited was Venus - our closest Next was Mars in 1965, and then Jupiter in Only then came Mercury in 1974. And already this order might seem a little The closest distance between the Earth and In fact, it is the closest planet to us on The closest distance between the Earth and that. And Jupiter was visited again in 1974, twice Multiple missions were launched to Saturn, while Mercury got nothing for 30 years. Is this because it was deemed uninteresting? Did we discover everything there was to discover No. That first mission was a flyby, and only mapped Actually, the real reason is that Mercury visit in our entire solar system. Why? Well, as previously mentioned, Mercury exists Due to its proximity to the Sun, its surface probe visiting it would need to be highly But that same proximity to the Sun means that faster and faster due to the immense gravitational that would be like swimming up white-water Combatting the Sun's gravity required too to carry, slowing down the spacecraft enough impossible. It was a question of weight. Weight is a challenging limitation when it The heavier a craft, the larger a rocket needed more expensive everything becomes. Scientists try to keep everything as light As fuel takes up precious weight allocations scientists try to take only what is necessary However, for about 30 years, scientists could to get it to slow down enough to enter Mercury's equipment onboard too. So, after the success of Mariner 10's flyby exploration was put on hold. But in 1985, an orbital mechanics expert named of getting a probe into orbit around Mercury Instead, she had worked out a particular route that would slow it down enough to enter Mercury's Rather than going straight to Mercury, the How long? Under Chen-Wan Yen's model, a craft would Earth once, Venus twice, and Mercury 3 times its orbit on the 4th pass. All these planetary flybys would be essential vital speed could be shaved off, from atmospheric The entire route would cover a mammoth 7.9 Chen-Wan Yen's findings were not immediately an interest in the idea and after seeing the MESSENGER probe in 2004. MESSENGER, or the Mercury Surface, Space Environment, long and 1.3m wide and weighed 1,100 kg. This is small and light for a typical NASA Just a comparison, Juno is 20m long. MESSENGER came equipped with a powerful thruster, Sun, two solar panels and a whole suite of data from Mercury. Scientists hoped to take advantage of this about the chemical composition of Mercury's field, and its core (among other things). MESSENGER spent its first year in space making up again with Earth. This gave scientists a chance to test its make sure there weren't any errors and to MESSENGER took some photos of Earth and the to take readings of our atmosphere and magnetosphere. Fortunately, everything was working perfectly. As it began to head further sunward, MESSENGER its acceleration towards the Sun. It used its solar panels to "catch" solar wind. Solar radiation hitting an object actually While this force is very tiny, because MESSENGER's Making the most of this phenomenon was one decelerated naturally. The next notable landmark in MESSENGER's flyby of Venus. Sadly, for scientists, this moment came at side of the Sun from Earth, which meant MESSENGER It did take some photos of the planet which science. However, in 2007, it passed Venus again. At that time another spacecraft was orbiting MESSENGER and the Venus Express took the opportunity simultaneous measurements of particle-and-field But then it was on to the main event: Mercury. MESSENGER made its first flyby of Mercury smoothly. The same was true of the second flyby. But during the 3rd flyby in 2009, something MESSENGER went into safe mode, which was designed of an error. How disappointing to have come so far, only one of the final stages! MESSENGER remained in safe mode for what must scientists involved. You see, MESSENGER had to pass through Mercury's rely on its batteries for 18 minutes. Something wasn't configured right in the Fortunately, MESSENGER's computer reset and it was able to continue with its mission, finally entering orbit around Mercury on the MESSENGER took up an elliptical orbit around km and as far away as 15,000 km. This is because Mercury acts sort of like space. Remaining too close to Mercury was too hot was more designed to protect it from the Sun on Earth), so moving further away every 12 MESSENGER spent the next 4 years in Mercury's expectations for the mission, as they had 1 year. Before launch, scientists had hoped that MESSENGER course of its lifetime. However, MESSENGER took over 200,000 photographs, in high resolution and colour, as well as On 25th December 2014 MESSENGER's propellant - was finally about to run out. By this point, MESSENGER was orbiting a mere Scientists gave the thrusters one last burst but on April 30th, 2015, MESSENGER crashed After a journey that had lasted over a decade, MESSENGER's journey had come to an end. MESSENGER gave us a wealth of insights into On board MESSENGER were a host of scientific out Mercury's magnetic field, [Deleted, and need new VO.] which is thought to be generated Our fast rotation and tidal stretching from doesn't have a moon, or a fast rotation. What it does have, however, is an eccentric Gravitational strength increases and decreases Sun, so the tidal forces pull and squeeze Mercury's core hot and the dynamo going. Unlike Earth's, it is offset from the centre we don't really know why. Its magnetic field is only about 1% as strong on deflecting a lot of the solar wind around However, due to it being closer to the Sun, than it is around Earth. Add a weak magnetic field to the mix, and closely to the planet's surface. Earth's, on the other hand, extends many the surface. Interestingly, these factors make the magnetosphere What does this entail? Well, for one, reconnection events are 100 Earth. Reconnection events occur when magnetic field pushes against a planet's magnetosphere. When this happens, it allows a few of these magnetosphere, entering a region of plasma The flows you see in this simulation in the Another feature of the magnetosphere that electrons, producing hundreds of thousands As MESSENGER orbited Mercury, it picked up they were mainly localised in the northern planet along the sun facing side. This is still an ongoing field of study; however, accelerated through breakdowns in the magnetotail, field around from the south pole to the north. MESSENGER also hosted a wide array of spectrometers. Spectrometers are important for detecting surface without having to actually take a Spectrometers can also be used to detect the Now, Mercury doesn't have an atmosphere an exosphere, or an extremely tenuous atmosphere. It is so thin that the particles within it But what MESSENGER found out about this exosphere's scientists. Mercury is covered with volatile substances, It seems to be covered in potassium, magnesium, level than any other terrestrial planet, and The fact that its volatile ratios have more have completed disproved a lot of solar system arrived at Mercury. These volatiles are blasted by radiation from the poles, which may explain why on the surface, abundant in the northern hemisphere than around It is much hotter on Mercury around its equator would have been heated enough that much of Now, the exosphere contains a lot of the particles potassium, and the others I mentioned. This exosphere is not at all stable. Solar wind picks up and carries away a lot also pushes a lot of the neutral particles Were it not for the processes that replenish space over a relatively short time frame. While most substances certainly do come from elements, like hydrogen and helium, which So where did they come from? Well, as you may know, the Sun is made predominately the solar wind carries these particles to Some of the solar wind actually gets caught As far as we know, this is the only major The particles that do get stripped away have In these images, we see calcium, an unknown in the exosphere during the planet's dawn the night side of the planet. In fact, Mercury's tail has been known about In these images, sodium ions are lit up as look like a comet. Incredibly, if you were to look up into the a faint yellow glow, reminiscent of city lights This tail is seasonal. The eccentric orbit of Mercury means that its year, and as it orbits its orbital speed So, the time of greatest sodium emission is from the Sun. There was one other curious substance found weren't expecting. Water vapour. This could come from cometary tails as they MESSENGER detected around the planet's poles. Surprisingly, water ice can exist on this permanently shadowed craters, forever protected light rays. The Earth-based Arecibo Radio Telescope had around the poles, and as images from MESSENGER of permanent shadow at the bottom of large Estimates put the amount of water ice found This isn't huge by Earth standards, but colony there to have that much water accessible. There were some other surprising features Hollows were found dispersed all over. This is a feature unique to Mercury. While we aren't completely sure what causes and they are unique to Mercury simply due They seem to be an active geological process, the planet, and they are certainly not the There is much more going on on Mercury's of volcanic activity. Craters from massive asteroid strikes that And, surprisingly, the thin scarps that were These scarps show that Mercury is contracting, and from MESSENGER's data, Mercury has contracted by over 14km in diameter since its formation - a lot more than what was expected. All these findings have thrilled scientists, about Mercury were it not for MESSENGER, somehow the general public. Perhaps ESA's BepiColombo mission, already capture the public's imagination when it Let's go back to when the planet was warmer. So warm in fact, that it becomes necessary when a planet melts? For Mercury, the closest planet to our sun, At the risk of it being understated, Mercury With daytime temperatures reaching an incredible fires, the rocks and dust on Mercury's surface them towards their limits. It's not the hottest planet in the solar to its thick atmosphere - but it's certainly The Mercury we know today has actually cooled There is ice at its polar caps, and we discussed contracted over time as its interior became So, what was it like back then?When rock is down and it turns into the gloopy, viscous "runniness" - 10,000 to 100,000 times For a point of reference, this is a similar not recommend putting this on your food. Depending on the rock type, magma forms at as high as 1300degC. So, for Mercury to have at least these temperatures. In spite of being much less runny than water, before stopping. This is because once the surface of lava hardens, rest of the lava within protected so it can How do we know this happened on Mercury? The clues can be found in craters like Raditladi. Scientists estimate that Raditladi is a relatively old - with well-preserved walls and a floor It's large - over 25km in diameter. Notice how rough the hills are around the This is no coincidence. Originally, the terrain inside Raditladi was it. So why is it so smooth now? The answer is lava. When lava is left on its own, it will try like water does if you put it in a bowl, as The same happened here: an asteroid crashed quickly filled with lava. Once the lava inside cooled, it formed the But where did this lava come from? There are two theories. The first is that the impact of the meteor magma from beneath the surface rose up through The second explanation is that the surface of the meteor, that it pushed the already melting. This kind of lava is known as impact melt. The true explanation is likely a combination Now that we know that smoothness is a sign are numerous other craters on Mercury that Just take a look at Rustaveli, where crags the smooth lava layer: Or Copland. Polygnotus. Or Rachmaninov. Rachmaninov is particularly interesting, as lava bubbling up through from beneath the Take a look at the strange crinkled cracks crater. Such cracks are a signal that a slower outpouring breaking the plain, then cooling, then pushing of Mercury's fluctuating temperature. Here, and in many of these impact craters, activity from within Mercury's shell. But lava didn't just flow within the craters. Take a look at the valley known as Angkor Here you can see clear signs of smooth lava The lava travelled from high to low ground, next to it. Flows like these ended up filling massive and turning them the more orangey colour we Scientists have begun to recognise this tell-tale and from it a more detailed picture has begun that make it even less hospitable. Areas like this one to the north east of Rachmaninov When MESSENGER flew over this area in 2015, the surface to be covered in a fine dust: was - volcanic ash, that must have fired it. NASA scientists likened it to snow - "fiery, So, it wasn't just lava flowing beneath Mercury, but burning ash falling from the And that was just the calmer volcanoes. The final indicator of volcanic activity on that whole chunks were scooped out of the Take a look at this crater Navoi. This is no impact crater. When a crater is formed onto a hard surface, into lava, a central peak is usually formed. This is because when the crater walls suddenly exerts itself on all that loose particulate, out basin towards the centre. Once there, having built up momentum, it comes that is sliding down from the other side of The two sides meet, and all that momentum only direction they can - up. You see this same effect more clearly when The water of the newly formed basin rushes water from the other side and all of it shoots But unlike water, the sand and loose rock a central peak. Depending on what angle the meteor impacted, possibly tear-drop-shaped. However, the raised central formation of Navoi As scientists looked at this, they came to not formed by an impact at all. Instead, it had been carved out through the At 66km in diameter, the amount of force exploding carve out this crater and scatter its remnants truly massive. So there you have it. Meteors raining from the sky, tipping the Volcanoes bursting forth, either filling the and fiery rivers, or choking the air with to begin with, beyond thick toxic gases emitted And even the ground you could stand on might This is what it was like when a planet was Mercury is quiet now. As near as we can tell, there are no longer Although the sun still bakes down on it, the is now calm and soothed. Yet, for all those who know how to look, the locked in the geological record. It's the scars that tell the story of a When something is as incredibly difficult to study. Which is one of the reasons why in all of missions to Mercury, with just one more on Mariner 10 in 1974, MESSENGER in 2011 and Of these prior two missions, only MESSENGER is the only mission to ever give us close And crazily enough, some of the formations mysteries even more than a decade on, while primal power of the early solar system. So let's finish by taking a look at some what answers we can find. When you look at the surface of Mercury, there at you. First, its colour. Mercury's colour is not actually monochrome, and beiges, with lighter sections and lines. These darker sections are believed to indicate used in pencils! And the lighter sections? Well, we'll get onto them later. Beyond that, you most likely noticed the craters. Much like the moon, Mercury is covered with crashed down on the unprotected planet with These offer fascinating insights into the You can get a sense for how old a crater likely Sharp and crisp rims are likely a lot more had more time to erode down due to the natural Sometimes asteroids strike within the same craters of differing ages, such as the craters But it is in the difference between these first fascinating clue about the surface of It is an active, flowing place. Although there is no real atmosphere to produce things on the planet's surface do not remain As previously mentioned, Mercury is cooling, in kilometer-long scarps. But Mercury's surface is not just crumpling. It is also smoothing out. In this crater, there is evidence of slumping While about 90 degrees of the crater wall degrees has slipped further into the crater rim under the force of its own weight. Scientists are not entirely sure why this all of it. Is the soil particularly hard in that bottom Was it something to do with the angle the We don't really know. And that's one of the things that is so so much more to discover. Here's another interesting phenomenon. In my videos about the Moon, I mentioned crater These spidery lines that radiate out from surface as well, with some stretching over Their lighter colour is a sign that the material less graphite-rich, or at least is a different But did you know that for a while, scientists were formed? When they tested different weights, consistencies unable to recreate these patterns in lab conditions. Whatever they tried, the material they kicked circle, not thin, spider web lines. Scientists wracked their brains for years, solved. In 2018, a scientist called Tapan Sabuwala a group of students had managed to recreate Sabuwala was excited, but also confused. Why were these students able to manage what Interestingly, he realised this was an example Before performing their tests in lab conditions, prepped the experiment by smoothing out the The students had not done this step, leaving This made sense in hindsight, as it more closely an alien planet. And as it turns out, this was the entire key Crater rays do not care about the speed of crust. They only care about the surface shape and Knowing that this is how these lines are formed, some of the impacts that have struck Mercury Remember I mentioned how some of these ray That was just the smaller ones. Just look at the ray system originating from These rays must have been created from an almost entirely around Mercury's surface of 15,000km. And although not quite as large, the ray system While the Moon also has ray systems, they In fact, one of the main visual distinguishing These show us that one of the formative processes incredibly powerful bombardments. Seeing as the Sun is so nearby, objects caught into Mercury with far more force than Mercury Mercury's gravitational pull is so weak capture objects as moons - they get pulled This is one of the reasons why visiting Mercury But that's not to say that Mercury can't has to bodyblock it. Yet, this explanation cannot explain this Take a look at one of the most fascinating surrounding Pantheon Fossae. At first glance, you might think that there Yes, those fractures running out from the There are a few features that are odd here. To begin with, the fractures, and their surrounding to fractured glass. Glass fractures in this way due to its hard As you have seen, most other craters we have The crust of Mercury does not tend to fracture, leaves perfectly round craters. This is in keeping with a looser material Sand does not fracture when hit. We do not see this fracturing anywhere else is clearly happening here. Was the surface of Mercury particularly cold it more brittle? Mercury's nights can get as cold as -180 not happened in other places? About half the impacts should be hitting Mercury's When we take a closer look at Apollodorus, the fractures, we notice something even stranger. Apollodorus is not quite the epicentre. While it's pretty close, doesn't actually This might suggest that Apollodorus and the unrelated. Whatever caused this phenomenon may have happened, - but not on - its epicentre. But if that's so, what caused Pantheon Fossae? The intriguing thing is that we don't know. Evidently, something created this fractured Might that imply this is the result of not its way up from beneath? Perhaps this is the result of immense volcanic the crust? That's just my guess. There are still many mysteries to be found insights to be gleaned as science advances. When ESA's BepiColombo arrives at Mercury of the planet, and perhaps then we will have BepiColombo will uncover the characteristics and will take a clearer look at its geology But until then, scientists will continue to For now, Mercury endures; baked in its solar It has survived there for millions of years, in spite of all that the Sun and the solar The hellish conditions of its environment is no denying its resilience, shown in its Perhaps one day we will know all there is planets. But that day is not yet. In spite of it being the most illuminated location), there is still plenty of light Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this supercut, be sure to check A big thanks to my patrons and members. If you want to support the channel and have below. All the best, and see you next time.