What does Super Mario 3D World hide in World 2 view? The second world in this game takes place in the game from 2D Luigi's to hidden golden pipes, a game is built, to how the maps are laid out, to about. And that's what we'll be diving into today. Shadow-Play Alley, Really Rolling Hills, and not seen before in the core stages of World 2. So the world map in the second area doesn't are some things worth noting. If you were to land you could just walk along it until the end. but it is a solid object. And speaking of solid section of the map are not solid at all. If through and it will put you near the first unloads your character as well, and this can be never enter the pipe. Now this underground the sky. If we jump out of it, it'll respawn Let's go ahead and jump into that first level now. by the name Side Wave Desert Stage in the game you can see how far it stretches backwards. It's with sand that will slow you down, and Conkdors which are labeled as Tuccondor in the files, spin other enemy here are these bees called Stingbies, pipe here which takes us into a secret area with a uh waterfall? A sandfall? Whatever it is, you head. You eventually run across some shifting then clear the stage. Let's rewind time now For starters, let's locate where that we can see it takes us way up in the sky and out Room Waterfall Zone. Looking at this in a model to deal with the depth of field or lens flare far out all this sand goes. The player will never sandy floor stretches just as far forward as it let's talk about it. When you're playing this in fall, but if we move the camera, we can see that a floor right there - but even though we can see death. Our character will pass right through it the coin waterfall actually is designed to only the render bounds of the camera, it won't play. view though. The coins unload as soon as they because of the death barrier. It's because the length defined. It also generates coins based on So we can reduce the time and turn the waterfall of the waterfall into a straight line, and have it Now it makes sense how Luigi could afford to open On the topic of coins, the coin block in to our character. Like any other block going to get really small. Our arms will do Let's turn our attention to these jump platforms up a set distance based on a power level assigned shoot us off like a rocket which allows us to get these jump pads can also be assigned negative up that way, but they still function properly if we hit one, we'll be launched downwards - our velocity slowly tapers off as we slide So let's talk about some other quick is bundled with the level asset able to separate the two. The water by the so increasing the scale of it does allow us to this Conkdor is trying to eat this fish. There is that sand waterfall that leads up like when you're inside it. You just stand You'll notice these tall structures so standing on them is impossible. Even we'll fall right through. And when we fall through wall. These giant planes you see right here are tall walls. These huge invisible surfaces are range, but they are the true reason you can't And that wraps up this stage! Learning how games are made is honestly a yourself and share your creation with others. just launching on Nintendo Switch for free - creations to life. Rec Room features cross-play, on Apple devices, Playstation, Xbox, PC, Just pop in a headset to voice chat with tons of player-made ones, or take a spin at making Rec Room offers a really robust creation worlds and games. You can then invite There's tons of things to play and lots other players! Like this spooky one! Good lord So scream with your friends, or light them honestly endless, and it's a blast to your own avatar. You don't need a Nintendo so jump into Rec Room for free today by And a big thanks to Rec Room for supporting Onward to one of the next stages, Puffprod within the files, which totally makes sense raised by touching the Wii U Gamepad and fan the microphone. You start off within this and after the second set of collapsing platforms can open up. This grants you a stamp, and up scale using the boxes to help you (unless box then takes you over to a second section Touch Walls and LiftMikeBlocks in combination You'll have the option to jump into a cloud the third down below in this section. After Taking a look at this map from far away, I gotta level to something you'd expect out of Yoshi's plushy quilt feel. The map is split up into 4 the middle of the world despite being spaced stored off to the left of the first zone, whereas area. The Touch Wall platforms here are neat. They different parameters assigned to them like their before retracting. But nothing too exciting. as they just slide along a rail-based system. here that I don't think I've ever seen talked you can find a quilted cube high in the sky. whereas the pink cube is directly above a playable objects and are baked into the level geometry them and at first it was a bit futile. I used the keep falling through. I then tried landing on a upon exiting a warp, the coin block would unload but it does place you behind the Touch Wall cool. But eventually I got it by utilizing unloading. I'm not entirely sure why I couldn't because it does have collision. But I kinda felt documented online anywhere. The pink cube can also camera restrictions due to it taking place above these were just objects created to see how the also possible these were the first &quot;shapes&quot; made as sometimes starting with a cube by default programs. I'd love to hear your guesses Moving back to earlier in the level, if the secret location - which that room is called the box we can fall down here and just chill. The climb out as long as we have the catsuit. I also Another oddity of this level is there is a the stage. This protrusion could be of the stage sticking out of the back, but wasn't really connected to anything? but it didn't look like it, so I thought this stage we can find stretched textures horizontal stripes. It looks neat and it's Back in World 1 I moved the but here I just got curious about the star. If it will continue to fall forever and nothing but when I was in World 1 though was that the timed to the music. They can dance and bounce running out of time and the music speeds up. Next up we have Shadow-Play Alley, which goes underground dungeon level, where the player while utilizing a carryable piranha plant It's basically a stand-in Yoshi. We'll come has us explore a tunnel via our shadow only, Afterwards we can encounter the shadow of a big which can easily be toppled over for a on via a mystery box behind a wall of Blurkers end this stage by taking a door outside into So if we zoom out, we can see this is underground area is in the center and we The final goal area is stored off to the the map. The desert extends into the dungeon the player would never know that there final parts of the stage. Like, there's sand Anyways, this internal dungeon section being Shadow Tunnel Step A and Step and there are two additional parts to the map foreground. These 3d objects are labeled and both of these covers contain stars. Zooming star area that is normally timed, and we can even a hallway we can never normally see. This room So this level is mostly known for the shadow map reflects this. But how does the area truly zoom out footage, but when the player goes through way out in the foreground. Strong lights blast just off camera and moving through an environment structures. Each of the objects in this area have will still keep them loaded in despite them not a wooden bowser over here, which we'll talk about a shadow if it's on screen, which is how a normal are different given they persist outside of I'm not surprised at all it works this way, this given how many times I've ran through this So the Piranha plants here are called much defeat majority of the enemies here. of enemies that can be defeated by this chomping named ZXMany that tested out all the outcomes. only extended limited consideration to And although this ones a bit obvious this is what the Fuzzies look like behind move between and the direct lines their movement follows. Fuzzies also go by Let's talk about that wooden bowser now. So this bowser is actually set to 1.5 scale, so this always 50% bigger than it is supposed to be. Here unscaled variant. If this object is rotated and it's destroyed, its pieces will then be rotated. be briefly seen when it falls over. Also any copy the star with Captain Toad, but only when Captain place one in during the shadow section and defeat get Captain Toad in our sights. Defeating multiple So some last quick notes on this level. imagine - when the player steps through them and thus vanish in an instant. Also, this and the back of the building does not exist Next up we're heading into level 2-4 which is internal name for this level is RotateFieldStage. full of rotating hills of all different speeds and as you can find it on top of this plateau near the you a stamp too. We then enter a pipe which takes and we'll have two stars to collect in here. and down below we'll find a green pipe that will where we'll need to light up all the floor panels room. After exiting, the last star can be the pipe back up, the level will be completed Now I've been a bit excited about this level under the ground we can see these hills fully as well be earth wheels. Some are solid, like fake hollow? We can spot Luigi on this effect you see right here is unfortunate, as So this level has the intro area off to the left, from the start, and the goal off on the right. underground area is the secret room. We can stone on top of the middle dungeon area. This too. And something else you can't see, way out of in front of the goal area is an invisible wall. but if they could, they wouldn't be able but I always love finding leftover out of bounds associated with their skyboxes, but each area can take a look at this dungeon with daytime can take a look at the starting area with Let's talk about those rolling hills now changing their velocity, moving them out I wasted no time messing with all of moving these is that there is a layer below so we are going to get these weird bright screen So we have a super fast wheel here that looks on it. This wheel speed was set to a super high it. This wheel here is rotated at an odd angle, being tilted. The hole in the ground it came from a tree, so it can't be climbed anymore. I was just rotating at an insane speed, but we should be able game. Getting on top is a different story. But we If we make our way to the center we can practice roll outward, which is kinda making my mind melt we can see that changing one scope of scale makes clip through the weird parts. We can climb this applied to the open part. But that's enough about there's an invisible wall that prevents you from then add a jump platform, we'll see that this top our death. But what about the underground area? thing - that huge piece of flooring cannot If we shrink one of the wheels in the underground Doing so won't kill us but instead will bring us a pit we cannot escape within a black void, and too far apart and the closer walls can't be used Up in the secret room we can make the baseball decrease in size some. If we try to pick it up goal area, if we move the wheels off the ground underneath them. There's some holes through the like a secret spot down here. Rotating the flag the base we'll jump through the ground and do Next up we're heading to DoubleMarioFieldStage, This level introduces us to the Double Cherry We start off by cloning ourselves, responsibly right to break open a set of crates to grab the take us to the middle section of the level make our way forward to two platforms past clone on each will yield a green star. We then and go into the pipe. Oh, before that, on this This pipe takes us to the end of the level, you can use this platform to get to the So the biggest curiosity with this level is of powerup is both trippy but also really fun. out that trying to clone yourself past 4 clones clone limit higher. So unfortunately you can't get get 20 though. But hold onto that army thought, take a look at this level with a zoom out so being 3 areas, there's actually 4 structures in you'll find this random tower out of bounds. Now way to access it. So I took a pipe over here all 5 copies of me fell to my death. It seems wondering why it was put here. You can see it in so my hunch is that this was possibly added of the middle section loading in accidentally. using the tanooki or cat suit in combination Of course, I didn't want to assume that I couldn't so I ended up testing them all. And hey! one at the start of the level. The collider almost slip off and die, but I was glad if we cat dive to the lone tower, On top of the massive walls in the middle area, we'll find some solid ground as well. And on. Unfortunately the end of the level cannot But there's a little sliver of ground back Let's talk about that army again. So there's that is used to populate Blocksteppers into one their spacing and grid dimensions, which will spots. And... There's kinda no cap? Ugh, so if we want to spawn in 15 wide by 15 extra thick. Look at this creature move through crazy though is what happens when we kill one. as a tsunami of enemies unpacks itself. We can but let's make this a bit more rough. Here's 20 area. So when they are in a pack and still space they stand in is capable of ignoring their released as 399 individual enemies that all cannot this unpacking effect that I'm surely, not gonna Let's wipe the stage for a moment and focus on clear pipe sections that cut through the walls of but if we take a closer look we'll see that that go nowhere, and the clear pipes simply stretching taking place which is kind of we'll also find some floating buttons. 4 view and more than likely are leftover from objects and shaved them off at the edges but not the buttons bundled with it. Eventually And one last odd detail about these pipes is that they have unique reflections that often visual being applied to the pipes here that are be found in this level. Other maps have different in the world map. A neat detail that honestly But with that, we've covered all the base basically just a bunch of floating rooms, but I already covered that in a previous redundant. I'll link to it though, and I