I'm gonna show you how to race from New stopping The race is called the Cannonball, and honestly, against the law A battle that requires a bulletproof plan, of screws loose Doug Tabutt, Arne Toman, and Dunadel Daryoush This is the team that currently holds the And that record, didn't come easy (show speeding, police lights, high intensity) The trio in question aren't newbies when Doug and Arne had been racing the Cannonball and knew the interstate system east to west. But the cannonball race didn't start with In fact, its origin didn't start as a race A man named Erwin Baker Baker started his racing addiction as a motorcyclist, in 1909. and he quickly became the go to man for long He crossed jamaica, cuba and even panama on Then, in 1914, he crossed america. He rode 3,329 miles from San Diego to New It took him 11 days, 12 hours, and 19 minutes, And soon, the reputation he was building caught 4 wheels than 2, Harry C Stutz, the founder of the Stutz Motor In 1915 Harry Stutz offered Erwin one of their The only catch, Erwin had to drive it across But even for Erwin it was a tall order, Because this transcontinental run was still of paved roads. motorcycles could navigate uncharted terrain But that just made the challenge of a car Erwin Baker left San Diego in that Stutz and minutes he arrived in New York. It was an amazing feat! So amazing that news reporters gave him a Named after the famous railroad train. Cannon Ball Baker. But even still, Baker's automotive feat That only happened in 1933 when Cannon Ball country run. This time he started in New York City behind Streak and then set off for Los Angeles And this time, Cannon Ball Baker would go years, arriving in LA after just 53 hours 53 hours to do a drive that once took him It was both a testament to how far cars had the US highway system was compared to just And after that legendary NY to LA run, the Ball run. It's safe to say that Doug, Arne, and Dunadel's than 53 hours. After all, automotive technology had come Bearcat. And the obvious choice of car for them would E63 AMG. 577 horsepower of german V8 power, all while Not to mention an entire arsenal of police detail later BUT, there was one big issue with that car. (show crash) (https://youtu.be/N2EeJsF75gs) A truck driver fell asleep while driving on and his E63 were pulled over on the shoulder And well, as you can see, the E63 was no more. But this team wasn't one to give up. So they acted quick and bought their friend's It was a fast car and could probably do a But just fast in the cannonball doesn't You need stability at speed, the space to and perhaps most importantly, you needed to Of course, what about an EV? They're fast, efficient, generally quite at. No need to pack in massive fuel tanks, and Model S plaid and the Lucid Air can get nearly But that presents a couple issues, first of as advertised. A March Cannonball run means cold weather of anywhere from 10-40% of their range in A problem that manufacturers are desperately For a car like the Lucid Air Grand Touring, to drive in the cold And before you say that "insert political Ground News, we can clearly see that 69% of meaning that most of articles are politically And not just that, we can see who owns the factuality in their articles. In a time when news about electric vehicles highly politicized, tools like Ground News are crucial for uncovering to Blindspots that we have in our own knowledge. You can check out these articles at our link free and stay informed without hidden media Thank you to Ground News for sponsoring the and transparent! Now, armed with our new knowledge, an EV most mile journey. So the team quickly realized that they needed their E63 And lucky for them, Arne's friend had a with. 4.0L V8, 450+hp, it wasn't an E63 but it interstate at sustained triple digit speeds. So Arne called him Tuesday morning, and 30 the car that would break the Cannonball Race Now, I keep saying cannonball race. But up till now, the story has always been And that's more of a time trial than a race. But 50 years ago, the Cannonball was actually Editor of Car and Driver at the time, Brock In May of 1971, Brock Yates and his 3 teammates the Moon Trash 2, and rushed across America It was supposed to be a celebration of the the government for their overly strict traffic But also, this was the inaugural run to launch Memorial Trophy Dash. And they announced that on November 15th things Because they would be holding the first ever Yates organized 23 drivers in 6 different And all 6 teams met at the same starting point in May - The Red Ball Garage in NYC There was a Chevy Sportvan rigged with 298 a Cadillac deVille, an MGB GT, a Dodge van with a 190 gallon gas tank in A Ferrari 365 GTB, a freaking 1966 motorhome, a 1969 AMX, And of course, the Moon Trash 2, A wide variety of cars - all built for the And that's what made the cannonball race so all that mattered was if you could survive 35 hours and 54 minutes later, it was the sea to shining sea race But not for the reason you might think, It wasn't the fastest car in the race, the all the teams. And obviously, It didn't have the highest 300 gallons. Hell, the Ferrari even got pulled over for side. The Ferrari won simply because it had the Good MPG, Excellent acceleration, and all to handle. Not to mention, it had Dan Gurney behind the But even though the Ferrari won, the top 5 And that's what made this race so different. There wasn't one recipe to the best strategy, the ability to execute a solid plan. The unofficial Cannonball Sea to Shining Sea The 1979 race saw over 40 teams register, XJS finishing in 32 hours and 51 minutes. But 40+ cars racing flat out across the US idea. Yates didn't want to be responsible for any And even though there was no money to win, - it was still clearly becoming too chaotic So, after 1979, Brock Yates ended the sea But even though the Cannonball Race was dead, Now you already knew that, because a certain run just a few decades later. You wouldn't be able to tell it was an Audi to give the car a little makeover. You see, If you squint your eyes, the Audi but if you apply some body color vinyl, along badge, then the Audi S6 REALLY looks like This would be the disguise that would take And on a quiet night in May 2020, they took just like Brock Yates and his team did all Unlike Brock Yates however, it took them only Covid restrictions saw traffic at their lowest reason they needed to make this run happen Just a few months earlier, their previous team in a leased Audi A8, and supposedly the And for Arne and Doug, that wasn't something It wasn't long before they were out of New Flying down the highway at speeds that were But that's when they encountered their first The Cops A state trooper was cruising on the highway, by him. And this is where the next crucial tool for Arne and Doug set up a network of friends ahead of where they were and surveying the But when surveying wasn't enough, Scouts They were bait. Doug called up one of their local scouts and at extralegal speeds and get pulled over, Of course, Doug would pay the ticket, but they could get back to making Cannonball history. And so their scout caught up to where they the PA rozzers. But right as the scout was getting ready to and the team was off the hook The S6 was now free to stretch its legs, so And from Pennsylvania to Colorado, they averaged putting them well ahead of where they needed That is, until a radio call blared out on "White Audi made to look like a police car. 024A written on the back. Plate is obscured" It seems that not everyone was falling for And the cops knew what Arne and the team were And maybe that's because the Cannon Ball used to be. Because in the late 1980s, the Cannonball Just as Brock yates ended the cannon ball movie titled The Cannonball Run https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s8BNVDUslcE And were not talking some indie film No, this was a full on box office hit with Farrah Fawcett It was comedy about a fictional Cannonball critically acclaimed film, It ended up being the 4th highest grossing And that meant that now nearly everyone in And that kind of notoriety meant that even was over A new race was being hatched up by other Cannonball This race ran from 1980 to 1983 and it had had... But only once was the Jaguar's record broken It was in 1983, when Doug Turner alongside and 7 minutes behind the wheel of their 1980 A record that stayed for nearly over 20 years Because the popularity of the Cannonball really Perhaps the widespread knowledge of the run just lost interest with how slow new cars Either way, that 1983 run was the defacto Of course, until rather recently, when in 2006, a gentleman by the name of Alex the best of modern technology, and smashed On the outside, the car was mostly stock with for the long endurance runs Beyond that, a quick ecu flash removed the speed of 195 And then of course there were all the antennas Rigged for a police scanner and a CB radio. Oh and the white stripes above the car? Well that was for the spotter plane up in any potential hazards to them. Yea, Alex took this to a whole level. And from here on out, this was the new standard He and his friend Dave completed the run in A new record. But the years that followed Alex Roy's record and most importantly, police avoidance technology So in 2013, Alex's record fell. This time it was to Ed Bolian, yes, that Ed And just in case you were living under a rock, on VinWiki Ed drove a 2004 Mercedes benz CL55 AMG and a bunch of countermeasures to give him the He had 2 valentine radar detectors, 3 garmin 2 laser jammers, a damn ambulance traffic fuel tank setup And all that stuff paid off Ed set a time of 28 hours and 50 minutes, And honestly, it was so fast, many thought But then came the heroes of our story, Arne in 2019. And the car they used was none other than The same one that was annihilated by a sleepy When it was built though, the car made 700whp with a total fuel capacity of 65 gallons! And the police countermeasures?! Well that was next level as well. 2 radar detectors, laser diffusers, an app a cb radio, another police scanner with GPS, binoculars, an aircraft detection system, scope on a gimbal. And that still wasn't enough to prepare them So you should definitely read the details below Their finish time was 27 hours and 25 minutes, And if Ed's record seemed impossible then But you know the drill by now. It didn't stay forever. Because there was one more ingredient to the missed. Something that would allow for even Arne and A freaking pandemic. COVID lockdowns meant that every interstate was for the taking. So in March of 2020, somebody took it. An amateur team led by Chris Allen took a V1, a hacked together marine fuel tank system, the cannonball record. And guess what? They completed their run in 26 hours in 38 Doug and Arne's time! This record of course, was hotly contested Many people claimed that COVID records shouldn't But the point of the Cannonball was never about man, machine, and road And anyways, the only rules of Cannonball needed to be one car wheels on the ground But, imagine then how fast somebody could seasoned team, a fully prepped car, and all Team Doug Part 4 Flash forward to Doug, Arnie, and Dunadel's Of course, You already know about the team weren't lacking in the tech department either. Radar detectors complemented by laser diffusers, Multiple GPS' running on a variety of different road hazards or speed traps, They even had the E63's plane crash avoidance vicinity, just in case the police were enforcing Add to that a thermal vision camera, and high sitting shotgun to look ahead and spot any It was a tech that was unheard of in the Brock cannonballer But it was tech that was necessary to break That, along with the 67 gallons of auxiliary a modification that has been necessary since And with all that, the team continued through they got to Utah, they encountered something Traffic. The magic of doing runs in the Covid lockdown as people sheltered in place, But Utah didn't have those same COVID restrictions, from Utah so they could enjoy an unrestricted Motor homes, trucks towing boats and jet skis, the road for the tired trio in their Audi That 120mph average speed ticked down slowly was slipping away with it. But they managed to get through the Utah traffic, finally into California. And they were still on pace to break the standing But despite the lockdown in Cali, Los Angeles And the team was getting stuck behind trucks, But they soldiered on, and red light by light Until finally, as the sun was setting on the up to the Portofino Inn And their official time? 25 hours and 39 minutes. Nearly an hour faster than the previous fastest record in the E63. It was a tremendous accomplishment, The Cannonball started off as a feat that Baker Then just days with Brock Yates To now taking hardly over a single day 3 determined drivers Behind the wheel of a deviously disguised Packed full of the best tech With the support of their faithful scouts. Did the impossible, and set a Cannonball record And that ladies and gentlemen, is how to race can, without stopping Thanks for watching, Subscribe if you haven't already and join up next. I'll see you in the next one.