In today's AMD Ultimate Tech Upgrade, ah, there will be no painting of walls, assembly of furniture, or cuddling of bunnies. Alex D does his own home upgrades, so he blew his entire budget on real tech. I am talking new PC, new monitor, new networking, new 3D printer, you went all out, didn't you? I got a projector too. Wow! And as our logistics manager, he's in charge of making sure that everything around the office gets done in a timely fashion. So this should be a breeze. Kind of like our AC that took over a year to install. Or when it took two extra months to move into the lab because we had to redo the floors. Or when we bought all those tech shop items that still aren't organized. Anywho, good luck, everyone. AMD Ultimate Tech Upgrade is back again with a brand new video. And this month, AMD is giving our viewers a chance to win one of 10 limited edition Avatar AMD Radeon RX 7900 XTX and Ryzen 7 7800X 3D bundles. all you gotta do is head to our Twitter and enter the giveaway for a chance to win. Thanks again, AMD, for sponsoring this series. These upgrade shoots almost always take longer than a full workday. But with Alex's help, either through his meticulous time management or his willingness to just leave a project only kind of finished. That painting and drywall was not me. But everything we're doing today, I've planned out to a T. We are certain to be out of here by 6:30 on the nose. And a big part of that planning was recruiting help. Elijah, are you ready? Yes, sir, almost. No, you're not ready. Need this first. There we go. All right, we don't want you- Thanks, buddy. Precious Elijah getting injured again. Of course, before any of that happens, we got to do the obligatory stolen items check. All mine. Is it yours? Or are you simply savvy enough to remove our inventory labels from things? We would put it underneath the kickstand. Is it there? It's not, because it's mine. How convenient. It's fastened to the wall, so I can't check in the wrong place above a fireplace. Damn you, Alex Dick! That's where it fits. Also, that is from the office. I bought it, though. Also, spectacularly dirty. What is up with that? Well, you got children. Don't look at my TVs, just walk past them. Okay. Uh-oh. Asset tag. Oh, uh-oh. That's not from work either. I bet the dbrand case is. It is. That is the prototype. Because dbrand wouldn't send me the Kill Switch that I requested. They wouldn't send you it? No, because they had issues with the first Kill Switch. Oh, but you requested the first one anyway? Yeah. And they were like, no. Yeah. So you stole one from work? Yeah. Yeah. Because that makes perfect sense. I mean, dbrand pays work. I work for work. It was going to be free anyway. Laptop. Clearly property of work. Whoa, that toilet just lifted up on its own. What the hell's going on here? That's the best purchase I've ever made. That's my $1,000 bidet. Worth every penny. What is up with you and hoarding displays? Who keeps a display beside their bed? Look at the labels from QuakeCon 2010. Don't ask me why I still have that. My concern wasn't why you still have it. It's why it's right beside your bed. Is this your security monitor? I have very little space. It's taken up by my wife and my two children. Wives love being described as a thing that takes up space. I can't wait for her to watch this video. She even made me a pillow. Wow. And you use the monitor instead? Yeah. Wow, rude. Who would have thought we'd find the most five-finger discount goods from the logistics manager? Enough of the investigation, though. Let's see what he walked away with today. Why don't we start with the 3D printer? Yeah, let's set it up in the kitchen. In the kitchen? Well, it's not gonna live in the kitchen. Wow, you are really going for maximum wife approval factor today. Eventually, it's gonna live in my little utility closet outside, but I figured we'd set it up in here because that's a lot easier. Good gravy. Bamboo Labs has an unboxing tutorial. Hey, Elijah, I think you could do it then. As much as we joke, I think you can lose the eye protection. Okay, thank you. It keeps fogging up and I can't see anything. Big, big muscles. Yeah, which is why I need a logistics department full of burly people to help me move things. This seems super fancy. You've got like a circulation fan in here, heated build plate. It's got a camera. Oh, really? That's super cool. This looks really expensive, dude. It was pretty expensive. That's why I did not buy it myself. What do you mean? You guys bought it. Oh, AMD, right. Yeah, don't forget. This is AMD Ultimate Tech Upgrade. All right. Hey, that's a cool first print. It's an AMD logo. What the hell is it doing? That's a good question. It's still leveling. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's touching the build plate at what looks like about probably 25 points all across it. That's super cool. On the main channel, we haven't really covered these in years and clearly a lot has changed. Hey, here we go. On the subject of AMD. Oh, that didn't sound good. Sounded okay. On the subject of AMD, part of the upgrade is of course a new computer, but I couldn't help noticing this is all you got. A case, a GPU and a CPU. I won a computer at the Christmas party and I just want to upgrade that. I did. I won. I won it, Linus. This is running not bad actually. Yeah, this is one half of the orange dual ITX PC you did with Yvonne. Oh, that's right. What happened to the other half of it? I built a NAS in my little closet there. Oh, super cool. Two PCs for the price of one. The price is zero. Yeah, free 99. Oh he's shedding everywhere. Oh God. The only challenge here is that part of Alex's upgrade is a new monitor and that 3060 is gonna struggle. I think so. Isn't the new one higher resolution? It's the OLED Plouffe has. Oh, seriously? Yeah, he highly recommended it. Yeah, he never shuts up about it. My name is Ploof and I have an AW3423DW at home. The Alienware QD OLED I have the AW3423DW. Okay, so then yeah, let's go ahead and shut it down with this button that was stolen from work. That came with my prize, sir. The test bench was stolen though. That is true. As you guys will probably know if you watched this original video, these are pretty nice systems. High-speed RAM, nice power supply, good cooler, at least as good as you're gonna be able to fit in a small form factor case. But what hasn't aged as well is the CPU and GPU. Fortunately, AMD has done a great job of supporting the AM4 platform and Alex has a really nice upgrade path to the 5800X3D. Sure, it's not quite as fast as a 7,000 series, but it is darn fast if your main purpose is gaming. Also, since we're not trying to fit two machines into a single small form factor case, he's got a lot more room for a GPU. So he's gonna be going from that little tiny ITX 3060 to a 7900XT Hellhound edition. I've never heard of that. I hadn't either. Yeah, this is a really good thing about the AM4 socket. When you pull heat sinks off, sometimes it pulls the whole CPU out. No, no, it's fine, it's fine, it's all good. Yeah, it's all good, it's all good, don't worry. What is this thing? Is it a 5600 or something like that? I think so, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And it's a working 5600 too, probably. Hopefully. Man, I wish everyone's upgrade was just an upgrade. This is so easy. I didn't feel the need to have to build a whole computer. I also didn't want to spend the money on a whole new AM5 system. Yeah, but hey, with AMD, you've got the option. You don't have to. Heck yeah. I swear this fits. There we go. Wow! Oh, I just realized that. A fatal flaw. They're islands. Nice. They're not connected to anything. Yay! What am I looking at here? We've got a switch, we've got some cameras, we've got another switch, we have some smart sensors, and it's a couple more cameras. Are you going 10 gig or, oh no, you've gone PoE so that you can power all of these cameras and sensors and all that good stuff. Yeah, and this is a two and a half on all ports. Isn't this like a 4K camera? What are you trying to see? I'm putting it out on my carport. It's the main entrance to the house, so I want it covered. First task, we have to take off that plate. Oh. So take off that plate, and then we got to pull the wires up through there. Okay, yes, sir. Yes, this comes last. Okay, I'll get a screwdriver. Thank you very much. Wow. Remember when I said what could go wrong? You know this is an impact, right? Yeah, it'll make it through. Wow, a little giant. You know, that was my nickname in high school. That sounds right, Linus. That was never my nickname. No, no, you're good, you're good. I mean, it's kind of, yeah, it's level-ish. We're fine, it's not gonna take very long. Yeah, I mean, it didn't take long for Elijah to fall down the stairs either. So are you trying to hit this orange box? No, no, no, I just want to be somewhere near it. Okay. And you hit the box. Yeah, look at that. Oh yeah. So you want me to pull it all the way out? Yep, pull it all the way out. Well, what was the point of that then? Okay, so there used to be coax here. I did not need the coax. So I pulled it from down here. I just, I used the coax as a fish line. Okay, you want to see if you can fish it through the hole? You think you can find the hole? Wait, you want it through the hole on the other side? Yeah. Good gravy. Oh, oh, actually, how about we, I'll grab the drill bit. Sure. I'll poke it through and then you can tape it to the... Yeah. I'm going to have it done before he gets back with that drill bit. I got this. I think I got this. Oh, you got it. Look at that. Got it. Do you have ethernet for termination stuff? I do. Hey, look at that. Taken from work. Yep. This is for work. Debatable. Excuse, are you getting paid? Because I'm getting paid. What? I have to confess, I'm a little confused by this though. You appear to already have an access point in that corner. What is it that you were hoping to accomplish by putting an access point in this corner? Okay, so that one, that one is a little U6 lite. The signal is not the greatest. So we're replacing it with this because Jake says this will do a much better job. And then we are moving that one into my little utility closet outside. Not turning on. It's not turning on. We've given you one job today. I'm aware. This is like when the teacher examines your homework. Yeah. It's like, hmm, I see you missed question B here. Is that the front IO? Yeah. What? No. Yes. So it turns on. Don't worry, you're doing great. I do my best. Oh, you did not just trailer hitch me. Now let's hope there's room for me to tuck this back. Oh my God. So easy. No problem. Yeah, hopefully I crimped it correctly. Hey buddy. We gonna bonk heads? Bonk. Now that we've got the cameras in, it's time to wire up our switches, but I'm not a hundred percent clear on what the plan is. Okay. So this is gonna get connected up to my dream machine. Man, this thing. It's massive. Feels good. That's what happens when you've got both two and a half gig switching and PoE to every port, allowing us to drive up to 120 Watts of devices off of this switch alone, which we're not gonna be anywhere near. We've got a couple cameras, couple access points, PoE powered, PoE switch. Yep. Originally I was gonna go with the professional version of that switch, which only does one gig on each port, same PoE. But I decided to go with this one because I can get three and a half gig internet here, or sorry, three gig internet here. And that thing will do two and a half on each port. Okay. But okay, you know, three gig internet, like. It's completely unnecessary. Okay, cool. Completely unnecessary. Now, hold on a second. You seriously have a Dream Machine Pro at home? This has got to be from work. It is not from work. It is not from work. But I helped Dan install enough of these in the various buildings that I loved it. So when I got a place, I bought my own. It's a router slash, it also handles DVR capabilities for a handful of cameras. It acts as your unified controller if you have a bunch of Ubiquiti stuff, but it's really expensive. That's not that bad. I think that one's only like 600 bucks. 650. That's not that bad. I don't have a screwdriver. Oh, yes I do. No, I don't. Oh, you know what I do have though? Is something made of salvaged screwdriver parts. Remember how I talked about a supplier screwing us over on a 100,000 unit order of screwdriver shafts? Well, we figured, why don't we make fail pens out of them? Coming soon, lttstore.com. This is never coming out of here. Yeah, that's fine. Okay. It never has to. No, no, it's fine. It's all good. Just need to give it the old, my entire body weight. There we go. Look at that. Look at that. Never use your LTT screwdriver like that. That is not what it's for. Oh, you know what we should have done first? Put things in the patch panel? No, we should have, oh yeah. I mean, if we put everything over here, then it's fine. That would mess with my OCD too though. Yeah, I only stole these small ones from work. Nice. Dang it, Alex. They look pretty, therefore you should just take them. That's the message you're sending. I did ask. I have that UPS right next to you. Let's plug that bad boy in. Hey, is this one of the ones from the tech shop? It is not. No, that is one that I stole from a vacant unit in the mall. So you're saying I'm not the first. It was going in the garbage anyway. Did I write on the end of that what that is? Not even a little. Oh God. All right, let's swap this drive. Oh yeah, right. Because the Dream Machine, you were using an OCZ Vertex SSD for your cameras? That's all I had. Oh man, that moment when you're an absolute baller with a fully solid state camera drive, but then you don't ball hard enough for the capacity. This is a bit of an upgrade. We've gone from 128 gigs of storage to four terabytes. So if that got you about a day and a half, you'll get over a month, almost two months of storage. Oh no, we got it. Look at that, beautiful. Beautiful. So now that everything's booted up, we can go ahead and adopt the stuff from downstairs. So this is a U6 mesh. Okay, we're adopting the camera that I installed outside. Oh, okay, it says connected now. Hey, there we go. Oh wow. Wow. Look at that beauty. Yeah. Wow. I needed to put it at the top because the zap straps would hit the fan. Right. So it's at the top and they're the sponsor. Thanks, good job. Thanks buddy, don't hit too hard. Oh crap, I put it on the wall side so you won't even get to see it. When he goes to move it in like a year, he'll get that memory. This guy, he goes, well, it's only a one person job because it only has the one handle. This part needs to go on the screen first and then it needs to be slid on. Oh yeah. Because it won't fit. You can't mount it afterwards. Is that a challenge? It's not a challenge. It physically, it will not work because I already tried it. Sounds like a challenge. You want to try it? You've got the dream team here, Alex. If anyone can do it, we can try. Let's go, we're the try guys. Except I didn't cheat on my wife yet. Yet. Also, I was going to say, there's only two of us. So we can't really be the try guys. Or the bye guys. I got this. Oh. Oh, that's stabbing you. We can do it upside down if you want. It'd be kind of funny. No, we can do it. Flip it in Windows. That actually would be kind of funny. Should we do it? It's kind of worth it. Hi, Alex. Hello. Hey you know that's upside down, right? Dammit. Can you tell he's worked with Elijah before? Used to have to manage me. And he couldn't that's why I had to go to the writing team. Do we wanna take the other one off the table? It's a stacker. Okay, hold on, hold on. Yeah we'll need to tighten it I guess. No, no, yeah but- I'm holding it. Dammit, Elijah. Well you can't hold it there because the- It's gonna pinch your hand. You're gonna scissor your hand. No. Yes. Here, I'll be Alex. I'm a manager. That seems a bit low. Seems a little low. I think if, yeah, yeah. I think that's good. That's good? Yeah I think that's good. This monitor is sick. What's the resolution? It's uh 3440 by 1440. Yeah. Okay this drive might be hooped. Really? Yeah, I don't know, I'm getting nothing. Oh, that's sad and there's there's no there's no activity on there either All right. Well, RMA. I hate to be that guy, but Is there a reason that we don't just put in this double the capacity? Enterprise capacity drive that you already had sitting here? Because I want to throw it in this NAS. Oh. Still this might be better for the time being Hey, what are you doing with that? This was his old one. He got a new keyboard. Oh Wow, that's really heavy the model F Capacitive buckling spring keyboard, here we go. Wow. Okay. Now I hated the color that it came with Look at that. Sick setup. That's a real piece of walnut Guess what? Now? It's a real piece of floor nut. Please don't Please don't. Wow, that looks awesome. How'd you get the finish so close? I took it to an automotive shop and I had them color match the paint Let's find out if Elijah has successfully built this computer. Yeah right there. Hey, there we go. Nice We have a conclusion to the saga of the hard drive So the 8 terabyte that I was gonna use of my NAS Ended up working and then the cameras Also adopted there's my back yard. Look at that. I got the placement done pretty good, too Nice yeah! Damn, nailed it. Yeah, look at that. That's like perfect. Look at all those leaves Yeah, you'll get to it, you'll get to it, maybe you'll get to it That depends how much time we have today I guess. These PoE switches are pretty cool. They're PoE powered PoE switches so all you need is the power coming from whatever switch you have down the line and Usually if that switch is powerful enough you can power up to four other devices off of this switch such as cameras APs or even like a doorbell if you have one You see it? Yes, sir. It's so loud. Is this your old printer? Yeah So this is what we replaced I saw it already Oh okay Yeah look see? The helmet paid off right there. Yay, cable! Cool, cool. There you go dad. Okay. Good job, son Cool, just click, this goes- we'll plug this into the close port. Port 5, beautiful. Once this gets powered AP will power up So we need the hood at the top. Ah spiderwebs, let's go Okay, do you have power now? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got the infrared lights are on Wow, that looks great. Yeah, and you've got so much Wi-Fi for this space. So it's basically for the 3d printer in the Tesla That's about it. Another thing we got Which we haven't talked about yet. So I got a new dishwasher. Wow, this looks really Outdated. Yes, cuz that's the old one. No, that makes sense Now that we've got the outside stuff done before we run out of light After we ran out of light minor details What exactly is the plan for the projector in here? I do see a big blank wall But I'm kind of imagining that if you were to kind of go to recline in bed while you watch. Whoa. Oh, where's it go? So, where's it going? Right there Right there. Oh with the brackets The center of the screen is gonna be on that side. Is that your side? That is my wife's side. Really? Oh, she gets the alpha seat I love her that much chivalrous Alex not a dick Do you need the stepstool Alex or I got I can help him Do you need the stepstool Alex or I got I can help him Can kind of aim it, whoa! There's your problem right there. We got it We got it ladies and gentlemen. You're on that one kind of weird Yeah, I fell. You will notice that there is no handle in the middle I did notice that yes I went for high quality. You can probably handle that. No, it is automatic, sir. What? Always maintain three contact points to ensure you won't fall. Look at this Work safe BC, you know my location All right. Let's see if you did it correctly. I did it correctly, what you even talking about? nice Nice, ow, ow. What are we doing with this bad boy? I'm kind of thinking right here Behind the fan. Wait a second There's no way this isn't from work There's no way this isn't from work It is from work. Yeah, I know it's from work. I bought it in my upgrade technically. Is this the one that we bolted to the front of my car? I think so. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. That was a thing. Yeah What the hell is this? Did Elijah put these holes in your wall? Okay, you weren't, you aren't supposed to see those. It works. Yeah A full fit and sit Are you comfortable with that hanging above your head? Oh, yeah, it seems pretty seismically safe Did we put the Noctua fans in this thing? Are there Noctua fans in there? Yeah, we must have done that We must have done that. Okay, you have to get it perfect or else it hits you can see it. Oh yeah. I don't see how we're gonna get to the top of the screen without That light fixture being a problem. Yeah, so, okay So I'm gonna fix this later when I change the fan we get like a more low-profile one Question for you. What were you planning for speakers? Christmas party. Oh my god You know when you're the one proposing the items for the Christmas party it creates a bit of a conflict of interest don't you think? Kind of Told you I'd win it. Wow. I don't want to spoil this for you or anything, but That is butter smooth. It looks so much better, too. How about a cool hundred and twenty FPS? 3440 by 1440 high Casual 300 FPS look I know it's not the most demanding game in the world But boy, is it ever pretty and boy is it ever running well here. I love love the 5800X3D. It is the ultimate upgrade for someone who has an older AM4 system And they still want to be able to play a ton of games. They don't need 16 flippin' CPU cores or whatever. They just want a great gaming experience with the latest graphics cards match made in heaven 7900 series and 5800X3D don't have to buy a whole new motherboard DDR5 RAM all that stuff. I don't play FPS games very much. Factorio is more my speed. I love Factorio. Question for you Yeah. What's with this setup? I don't know. Why? It was nice. Wow Not bad. Well, whatever. I'm I'm trying it out Really? You're not gonna put up our fireplace video. We have a fireplace video? We have a yule log video. I didn't know, Dennis and Linus, I didn't know this existed I didn't either. And while we didn't get to install some of the Unifi security products or cable manage anything or Clean up any of the messes we made. That's okay. That's time. See you later Alex In all seriousness, I should probably help with a little bit of cleanup before I leave But I can't believe how much stuff we installed today. We got the printer. We got the dishwasher We got the access point. We got the security cameras. We got the PC. We got the projector This was an absolutely incredible setup and thank you very much to you guys for watching it and to AMD for making it possible I love doing this series. It's always exciting seeing the Christmas morning smiles from the members of the team who get these sick upgrades and hopefully with your guys's help We are never gonna stop. I think the next one is, hey Alex. Do you know who's coming next? Yeah, I think it's Kyle I think he's got something crazy in the works. I think he's got something crazy in the works. Oh Kyle from the creator warehouse engineering team. I've heard about his it's been delayed a lot of times because I think he's doing something very ambitious Don't miss it. See you there