So what's going on? The new DAFa XD are going, Oliver. And you can test them. Should I do it? Yes, you do as your beak has grown. Yes, on the first exit with the new DAF XD, the luxurious entry into the medium-duty business class from DAF. Presented last year right after its big brother XF/XP, it was voted "Truck of the Year". Can the little one score as well as the big brother? The new DAF XD is aimed at a wide variety of applications in distribution transport. Oliver was able to gain first practical impressions with the 410 FT and the 450 FA. One of the main qualities of this engine is simply that you hardly hear it at all. During the journey, a background noise like in a travel bus, no engine sound at all, no ruckus. The engine braking is also very, very quiet. Of course, aerodynamics also play a large part . All we have to do is look over at our neighbors in the parking lot. It's the old XF with the aerodynamics of a wardrobe. Here without large radii on the front of the driver's cab, on the windscreen; shows that the aerodynamics are really perfectly coordinated and the noise level is kept correspondingly low. The two test candidates proved to be amazingly manoeuvrable and agile . In addition to the engine, the gearshift and steering are also significantly involved. The ZF TraXon 12-speed automated transmission is now standard on the vehicles. Perfect switching strategy. Very, very good in dialogue with the motor brake too, automatically downshifts when you want to decelerate. And what I really liked: You hardly ever have to intervene manually. So this vehicle has really been greatly upgraded with the automatic transmission. The undercarriage. What can one say? Only good. It is a conventional chassis, with leaf springs at the front and air suspension at the rear. You don't feel the highest level of comfort. It's a healthy mix of firm handling and suspension comfort. The steering plays a very important role in driving characteristics . This is a piece of cream. This has already been the case in the XF. We have direct steering here, true to track with decent operating forces, self-aligning moment. And all without electrical support. Chapeau DAF! Really nice, the steering. So, there is nothing to complain about at all. Also from the restoring moment. Well, when it comes to the space, you have to say very clearly that it is a huge step forward compared to the predecessor . We have a cubic meter more interior space here, enclosed space. This benefits the driver. Alone in front you have an enormously long distance to the windshield. You have many shelves, you can move freely. Yes, that really is business class in distribution traffic. We previously had 2 meter 30 cabins wide. Now we have the same cab as the Big XF, just with a slightly higher engine tunnel. But the space it offers is really...unparalleled in its class. So clarity in the vehicle. I think that's a huge topic. You have very low parapet. The driver's window, the huge driver's window, goes down very far and as a special highlight you have an additional window in the bottom of the passenger door. That means you can really see the maximum out. If he then has the mirror replacement system, you do n't have to be restricted by the mirror outside. Narrow A-pillars. No other vehicle currently offers a better view of traffic in all directions. I really like the ad design. Simply designed, but still digital, as it should be today. Goes very well with the big unmistakable switches we have everywhere. And right here on the TFT display again the whole menu for audio, navigation and communication. A distribution vehicle wins the 'Truck of the Year' award. is it rather unusual? Yes, it is not usual here for a low-cost vehicle or a heavy-duty distribution vehicle to be "Truck of the Year". It's usually always the heavy vehicles that get the crown. But this car deservedly got the award for the best truck of the year. Everything really fits together here. We have already noticed with the XF/XG class how well the DAF engineers have done their job. You have to say, they repeated it again on XD . All of the excellent properties of the predecessor &quot;Truck of the Year&quot;, the XF, XG are transferred here to the distribution class and a very sensational car is put on the wheels here. Even if it sounds unbelievable: we found almost no negative points with the vehicles. The only thing that might need a bit of improvement are the blinds here. They look a little windy. But otherwise a very, very mature, young, beautiful vehicle.