Which boozy drink is the Water of Life, where did there two different ways to spell whiskey? Cleanse and go bottoms up on this episode of Words Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob and I'm Jess Zafarris, author of the etymology we are offering up a delectable flight of word I like that a great deal, yes. We're hoping to about booze, alcoholic drinks, and--alcohol. because that's an interesting It absolutely is. Um, as you may be able to that begins with al, that is the Arabic definite by--mutilated from--an Arabic word. You know and it means "the kohl." It's like the same and they've been using this for, like, 5,000 or lead sulfide, and it was produced through a powder deposit. Um, and the idea here is that mineral. Um, like, the literal meaning of this the connection to alcohol, right? It is a spirit. alcohol to refer to, like, fine powders by sublimation and then distillation. to English speakers, rather newer than of alcohol then, isn't it? when we started talking about, um, alcohol as Right, what were we calling them before that, Well, we would talk about, like, the spirit of a like, it--it kind of shows up in the 1500s, for the distillation process. So alcohol of the fluid and the, uh, intoxicating aspect of it. one of the oldest alcohols that we've partaken of. words because it's a word that enters the Germanic via the Romans, who are having these encounters they're bringing their fancy things, like their like their streets--castles!--and their castles, and just a few of the words that we get from language even exists. And then those words get yeah, the Anglo-Saxon language becomes Old Yeah, yeah. What does it mean, though? words where it's just, like, it's--it's are basically etymologically the same word. Yeah, and they're pronounced--wine is pronounced Right, with a V or W--they just like, it shows up in words like vintage too, a thing that comes from the wine and the vine. which means vin aigre, is sour wine. Sharp, yeah. Beer--beer is, uh, another this--apparently something we would call beer has 13,000 years ago. It's very old. Mhm. And the word beer is quite interesting among the Germanic languages. I'm going to languages--so that--that's English, Dutch, but the other Germanic languages--so the a variant on ale--ol or something along Oh, you know, I was recently in, um, Oslo, in got there, and they had something called It's an item of jewelry, but it looks They had one from--from the fifth century, and all it just said alu on it, which is--it's not even Old right? So someone had just made this--this item of Amazing, isn't it? um, the Proto-Indo-European root here That would be--yes, that's right. Yeah, because a historian in particular who's well respected named, um, Peter Mathias, I believe, um, fermented malt liquor native to England until from the continent. And we also, in England, call Excellent. from a root meaning, like, to drink, right? beer. Yes, there's one--it's from a root meaning but there's also another theory that it's from along the lines of the Spanish biber, right, was bievre, which actually links the word to the Anyway, so that's--that's the Romance, and it's either from a word meaning &quot;to drink.&quot; which is quite a persuasive idea, isn't it? Or brew.&quot; So we don't know where &quot;beer&quot; comes from. that it's so similar to &quot;biere&quot; in French, but Speaking of coincidences, the Swedish &quot;ol,&quot; which for--for beer. It's exactly the same as the but it's pure coincidence that they've just because of where they've come from and how not related. Interesting little homonym there. beer came from, but it came from there a long ale appearing in Old English is--and we that you could tack the word &quot;ale&quot; onto a word a party post-harvest, a &quot;bride ale&quot; was a bridal &quot;bridal,&quot; which doesn't have that Latin ending That was such a revelation when Right? It's so goofy, but I mean, it read that and think it's an adjective. times is &quot;booze&quot; already. And I should have it comes from &quot;to drink,&quot; which I think is maybe it comes from the same Dutch word that gives us it's a Middle Dutch word, but that's where we a verb meaning &quot;to--to drink to excess,&quot; I don't know completely whether this is true, &quot;booze&quot; was picked up in the U.S. around the of Edmund Booz--B-O-O-Z--who was a Philadelphia-based in 1840 and, uh, manufactured that iconic his name helped make that word catch on I think that might be a Thomas Crapper actually works on that one. Mr. Booz, I love that. Yes. Interesting thing about whiskey Yeah, between countries. and the United States, but the actual, you know, where it's spelled with an &quot;e&quot;--w-h-i-s-k-e-y. That's right. Though, if you--if many people still spell it without the &quot;e,&quot; right? whiskey with an &quot;e&quot; and Scotch whiskey without just wanted to differentiate their drink so they've popped an &quot;e&quot; in there. The word itself is from, well, it's a Gaelic term me try and get it right. So this is the--the That's about what I read too. I was--I practiced was what I ran into. And it's something And what does it mean, Jess? It does, yeah. And as you search around, you find a variant on it. For example, aquavit, which I And also, there was--the Romans drank something drank it--&quot;aqua vitae.&quot; I don't know if that was very strong. I think it's more or I might be wrong about that, but then &quot;eau de vie&quot; just other boozes that are named after--after vodka means &quot;little water.&quot; &quot;Vod&quot; is the Russian for water, and then you put Yeah, a little sort of darling these drinks were to people, don't it? you know, livens up your--your gathering, so to could be the distillation process, it could just Yep. which is &quot;aguardiente.&quot; That's a--a portmanteau of It means--and that's another spirit. Interesting, huh? a whole sort of stream of different etymologies for example, I just mentioned &quot;burnt water.&quot; Dutch--or was Dutch--for--for burnt wine. Right. What are some more? Have Well, the--the one that--that was, the area where I grew up is moonshine. So moonshine is, like, obviously a word for, you kind of a fun story about this. It's probably it became--it became a word for booze in the 18th like in, uh, Appalachia and a couple unaged corn mash whiskey in particular, but home distills spirits of any kind, literally by So there is a little bit of a--a story about in the English county of--it's Wiltshire, right? Um, there was a secret route of, like, a booming legend, the locals would hide contraband barrels sinking them to the bottom of ponds. And when they the bottom of the pond with a long rake by the the reflection of the moon in the pond and saying Which also, like, moonraker an alternative for moonshiner at the same time. Or the--the James Bond book was called that. I think. Definitely not. good--it's not a very likely story, is it? this wheel of cheese from the--from the lake. Mad Men of Gotham situation, The word &quot;moonshine&quot; reminds Mhm, that's a good one. that means or where it comes from. interpretation of the name of a--of indigenous going to try to pronounce the word, but we can put name of the people and the language says, like, it name of the village means &quot;grizzly bear fort.&quot; And a rum-like liquor that became so widely popular the liquor. The--the word &quot;hooch&quot; basically is sort I was looking at where the word &quot;rum&quot; Yeah, I would love to. the word &quot;rumbustion&quot; or the word &quot;rumullion,&quot; like, a noise or sort of chaos. And it's just that comes with drinking too much rum. But I've was often tacked onto phrases and other words, &quot;good, fine, or excellent.&quot; So you could say &quot;rum with extra embroidery and fanciness on them. Ah, okay. Because we still have the word &quot;rum.&quot; sort of younger than, say, me. I would say the something that's bad, you know, there's something that there's something not quite right about it. perpetuation of that earlier sense. the Romani dialects. Yeah, something's Oh, does that mean we've Oh, maybe. Yeah, I think we have. &quot;Rum&quot; can And then gin. ultimately comes from &quot;juniper,&quot; right? The French &quot;juniper&quot; was &quot;juniperus.&quot; Or was it &quot;iuniperus&quot;? &quot;juniper.&quot; However, something happens that means Yeah. Yeah, I think it's thought that the so similar to the name of the was a misconception that Geneva was where Yeah, but it's actually invented in the much stronger drink, so flavored with juniper drink exists, but it's known as Holland's gin or was originally concocted in London as a slightly Netherlands. And the word gin comes from the That's neat. It's also unrelated to the form of the word &quot;engine,&quot; basically. I haven't heard that. large machine for harvesting cotton. was pertinent to my life growing up I enjoyed learning about some of the U.S. alcohol in Europe and--and certainly in the UK as well. Oh, absolutely. People have got so--they were, which I'm sure you've heard of, is in a dry So you're not allowed to sell liquor there, in Lynchburg, Tennessee. Um, that one's a cool one then I--I also grew up near, uh, like, Kentucky And were cocktails invented in the Yes, as a matter of fact, they Oh, go on. we--we've gotten into a bit of a--a social media, and you see a lot--you see a lot of false origins see a lot of false origins around the history of Mencken. Are you familiar with him? and where's he from? English language scholar, also known as &quot;the also an unrepentant troll. He was the orchestrator he called &quot;the Great Art of Synthesizing News,&quot; but it was, in his era, more in good fun undermine truth. Um, but for--for example, in 1917, that bathtubs didn't exist in America until the Well, then what were people One of his other pieces was &quot;The Secret History different theories about the origin of the word truth. One of them in particular is probably the French &quot;coquetier,&quot; meaning &quot;an egg cup.&quot; apothecary Antoine Amedee Peychaud--the made mixed drinks with his famous Peychaud in particular the, um, Sazerac cocktail, which Okay, so there is a link to &quot;cocks&quot; in one of the other theories that gets bandied Right. A horse's docked tail. Apparently, the idea a cock's comb if it was a mixed-breed horse. horse is like a mixed drink, right? So it would I--there's something persuasive about it. I mean, in such a short amount of time, from &quot;coquetier,&quot; I think with a--with a Creole That makes sense to me. Um, but, uh, I--I mean, I Creole, or French Creole rather, um, I think that culture. But the--some of the other theories are combination of stale beer and bread made for was the last little bit, or &quot;tail,&quot; of liquid Yeah, a tap is called a cock, Another one says that, um--and it has no uh, in the, uh, medieval era, an English army Cocktails,&quot; and the drink was supposedly Okay, and do all of these theories come He mentions all of them. Whether or some of them is unknown, because Great. Okay, good. So we really don't know No, we don't. But the one that makes the uh--is the Peychaud situation, the coquetier or the appearance of the word in media of the time. then. What about the etymologies of some You know, I was just, uh--I was just away in, uh, Sbagliato. Yeah, so people might know what a a count who wanted to sharpen up their and it became a Negroni. But--oh, I should explain so Count Camillo Negroni probably was an because apparently when he asked to stiffen up and soda water, he wanted some gin in there, and The Negroni Sbagliato that I had--Sbagliato means &quot;messed up Negroni.&quot; I like So I actually went to--I feel like but yeah--I went to the bar in Milan where this they tell there is that purely by accident, sparkling wine in the Negroni instead of gin. So would say it's a much nicer drink, personally. I'm not sure a messed-up one would help me. Yeah, I went to a--a party--a Halloween party in New um, and, uh, they were serving, um, like, they had Negronis. I don't remember all of that night. Yes, yes indeed. All of--all of my instances consuming alcohol--which, caveat here, don't do This is what Gen Z knows--it's just pointless. twice, but in both instances, I was in costume. So I--I love your--your choices of I have apparently less self-control on Halloween here now with a cold that I caught at a beer away from people and stay away from booze. That's demonetized. Don't drink booze, kids; don't it and avoid it at all costs. Well, I--I always think it's kind of guess. Need to water it down. Very nice, mimosa is not named for the fact that it contains of them are the same color of yellow, which I had a mimosa the other day. I'm talking a--what a colorful life I live. And But I--I realized I--I haven't ordered a else in England. Call it a Buck's Fizz. This mix of Who or what is the Buck in that situation? I--I don't know why it would be fizzing at least. Yeah, I know, but why would a buck the buck is some sort of animal. Why would it be? Most--a lot of cocktails are, like, named after a Margarita is a woman's name. Um, I don't know to figure that out, but, um, it is--it is named oh, it's actually named after someone really the wife of the barman or--or--or, you know, the--the Bloody Mary's another one of those, probably but also maybe not. Most references to that isn't it, Bloody Mary and how bloody oh, well, she's--she's no more bloody than she did on one occasion order, you know, the heretics. So she wasn't unbloody, just a little crispy Mary--how could you--you could sort of make like, they'll--they'll add, like, a this is another one of those, American things isn't Yeah, actually, they're pretty multivarious right? You put some celery salt in there, some Worcestershire sauce. I don't--this is if you--if you--if you're looking for--well, it's under the misapprehension until we were--were the non-alcoholic version of the Bloody Mary, was are named after that, but it is not true because a Bloody Mary and also a Virgin Mary, right? maybe, or something like that, or a pina colada, taste the same. Yeah, you're right, there were And what does daiquiri mean? one. I didn't get that one. It's actually a This happens? Martini is also probably named after Martinez. Martinez, California, has been a bit debunked, Yeah, well, I mean, is it not from the brand name Vermouth, yes, it is from Martini &amp; Rossi, a Martinez cocktail also existed before that. Yeah, there's a bit of a Chicken and the egg cup, very nice. And we got into, uh, the caipirinha as well. South American cocktail as well. That's from Oh, interesting. Oh no, no, I don't mean that. No, I just meant of one, not--not that--not that she is one. I mean-- Because that--now you said it--now Oh, it probably is. That's--I've described it be drinking the alcohol. It's fine. Oh, I--I described it so perfectly misogynistically Oh, it again now? Oh dear, other cocktails. that's a--that's a fun one. Oh, that is a fun Of course it does. It's from mojadito, which is moist thing. Think of that next time you're moistness of the--of the leaves that you put inside Right, to some degree. Some degree. A little more um, the old-fashioned was apparently called and it was named that in cocktail books it's simple to make, I guess, and people Yeah, I think it's because it doesn't ingredients either. It's, you know, it's good, which is a mix of liquors. By the way, I think strange to hear me saying liquor because we don't say spirits. So, oh, that makes sense. Yeah, I--I and it was called, um, beers, wines, sometimes, but that's something different. sort of. Actually, I don't know what--what--what's guess a liqueur is a type of spirit, but this--I stuff that you would add to your cocktails. Kahlua uh, espresso martini with that one. So, uh, Kahlua depending on how queue-y you want to make that liqueur. Um, either way, it's from a--a Spanish it means House of the Acolhua people, which is, um, Ah, you know, it does have a sort of Aztec sound like, this is, like, 1930s. We have culturally going to go there with a cultural appropriation, Let's not get sued by--by the Kahlua people, for because I really--I--I--I don't know any other coffee I make a good espresso martini. Do you? Yeah, That is--that is, uh--I'm impressed, though. Yeah, London, ah, for a very short amount of time 'cause any of the recipes. I was--I was not fired, but the pub next door. Politely encouraged to depart. mentioned it, but we didn't say what it means. Germanized word for wormwood, which was what was same wormwood that's present in absinthe, which but doesn't in its modern form. Wormwood, Folk etymology. I wonder if it is one. Do you Um, the--its actual pieces aren't completely Germanic something, and it probably--it might courage, man, or something like that. Oh, and and--and as, like, an aromatic for things like connection there. Um, and apparently it has to um, or whatever else. Um, apparently the folk used to protect clothes and bedding from moths you want to put in your body. Yeah. Um, but too as a medicine for a hawk that has mites. your hawk has mites. Yeah, infestation. Actually, He, like--I--I don't know if it's a male or a into this little ornamental pond I have, which is and make eye contact with me and then fly away. a war going on between my crows and my hawk, realize that I'm friends with both of them. Uh, German--German liquor. German liqueurs. meaning to gulp. Schnappen. It does sound like a here's an interesting thing--schnapps is spelled these days. Is that a branding decision? No, it was two P's in German. That's just a little have this lovely term in German, schnappsidee, really good idea at the time but actually turns of idea you--you'd have after--after a few schnapps. it is related to, um, like, the word snap was in--in the past, and, um, today we would use, like, same concept of a small mouthful or something. hop-hopping around here--but dram is another I think it's thought of as Scottish slang. Uh, by the way, Scotch whiskey is basically the Scotch and it be okay. That or a Scotch egg. had one the other day, as a matter of fact. in the United States? No, no, it was a--it was an That is so funny because it's the cheapest but they're--they're usually overpriced, and I've make one at home, and that's going to is making my own. So it's--it's a boiled egg But anyway, the dram--here's an interesting fact--a weight, and it's the same weight that also gives Greek currency. No kidding. Yeah. I--yeah, a bit I didn't know that. That's--I mean, it's not so Morocco would have a similar word to the Greeks. love to. I don't know much about this at all, consumed alcoholic drink in the world is a Chinese Yeah, which means white liquor, I guess. I know The Chinese word for--or the Mandarin word for the end of it that just means alcohol. The pi is absolutely love. Oh man, I love--oh man, I--I love yeah, exactly, because you have to make it coordinates vowels and consonants together. means beer, is actually the Dutch word bier, but they need a vowel at the end. That's so neat. Oh, we're about Asian drinks? So sake--what we sake. Sake in Japanese is just a very generic really. What we call sake in Japan, they call But it's--it's interesting that both of those terms rather than like--you see, it's like rice wine, it's--it's rice wine. And the Japanese symbol, it's one of those--it's a pictogram of sorts, and it--if you look at it, it looks like neat. I need to learn more about Japanese in like, pictogram-oriented, um--here I use the word because they've got three writing systems, are phonetic-based, and that is why, by the way, they all represent a consonant and vowel sound its own at the end of beer or--or biru, if you're unless it's an N. You can end Japanese words That's very neat. Now that we're thoroughly close out with a discussion of what the many properly liquored up here? Um, yeah, now we've we going to describe ourselves, Jess? Let's see. but some of my favorites are, um, shellacked, tore up, pissed, crocked, flushed, glazed, and you use pissed in America to mean drunk as well as like, if someone says you are pissed, they're you know, if you say it in the right context, other words which we've discussed, like, using Yeah, I--there was this study done by a couple of Stockhammer, and Urg, uh, and they took a many terms there were in Britain for being They got this number by looking through various of record, the ones that are legit. And then, that had--got some of them got, like, mentioned mentioned in one, and they compiled this list So this is from the top. So these are the I've heard all of these: bladed, legless, slushed, smashed, trashed, wasted, bedraggled, cabbaged, canned, fuddled, hammered, langered, mentioned. I actually haven't heard of ossified, Does that mean you've been turned to bone? That's what it means. Paralytic, uh, rat-arsed, screwed, tanked, tiddly, tight, well-oiled, wrecked, zoned, slang. I just realized. Ah, that makes sense. surprising frequency in the 1800s, there was a fictional character who, rather than being the American Civil War, supposedly opted to just condone this behavior, moderators of YouTube. as a word. It's--it's--that's a Yiddish one. And is first found in Harper's Magazine, probably, which is a little bit older. Squiffy--that's a came you so, or how come you so, which is like a she's a bit &quot;how came you so.&quot; in England called Private Eye, and a member of Parliament being inebriated, they he was tired and emotional in the Commons bar. uh, someone who has &quot;acknowledged the corn,&quot; dating back to the 1800s. &quot;Acknowledged Uh-huh. And then--and then, finally, my which is recorded as early as 1848 in Indiana. uh, just generally fanciful unless Okay, it's time to ring the bell and call time about booze. Indeed, it's closing time on