Joe: From exclusive we wanted to find all the differences between KFC in the US and Italy. This is &quot;Food Wars.&quot; New season, Italy. New host. I want to introduce you to a familiar Food Insider face: Claudia. Let's start with the If you're buying just you can get a two-piece. One is huge. We also have lots of bucket options, but most of them combine wings, and tenders. If you only want the original chicken, the largest size we have Looks a bit scary. The other bucket options such as tenders and hot wings. For example, if you you can get the 10-piece bucket. This contains four tenders And if you want to feed four people, you can get this big boy here. This one is a 16-piece bucket and contains four Original Recipe, four tenders, four crispy This is actually the Then in the US, KFC's chicken You can start off by getting then a two-piece with a combo, a three-piece with a combo, and a four-piece with a combo, all of which come with a biscuit, and a drink. Then for the buckets, the 12-piece, and last but not least, 16 pieces of chicken. Dinner is served in America. You can get those in That makes our biggest bucket 166% bigger than Italy's. I've actually never really had KFC before. Chicken is not so popular in Italy, especially fried chicken served like that. So I'm really curious to try it and see. Yeah, nice. Not a lot of spices. It's which is what we were promised. Let's see how one chicken drumstick weighs compared to Italy. Claudia: 64 grams. Joe: 97 grams. Is anyone surprised that the is bigger than every other country we've done this &quot;Food Wars&quot; with? In Italy, we also have hot wings, and they come in a five-piece and in a 18-piece bucket. This one is designed for three people. 18 wings in the US is definitely for one person, not three. I could have six wings So, they're advertised as hot wings. I think to an Italian palate, yeah, you could say these are spicy. We also got wings here in the US. Now, currently, at least the has one size of wings, the eight-piece. Go ahead and take the bones out. Crispy. Heat I can notice that isn't overwhelming. Perfectly fine. Next are the fries. In Italy, you can get three sizes: a small, medium, and large. In the US we got two sizes of fries: the individual and the large. Claudia: Let's weigh our biggest size. [laughs] I never grow tired of that. Is this the lowest we've gotten? We've gone to the same KFC every time, but apparently they because he or she was being too generous. In Italy, KFC offers drinks in two sizes: a medium and a large. Drinks in the US, you get the regular and the large. I will point out to you, that our regular, the smallest is 591 milliliters, which is much bigger than your large. But if you really want you can get yourself the big boy. Guszh! That is a half gallon, 64 fluid ounces, or 1,892.7 milliliters of beverage. Claudia: Let's measure the Joe: Supposed to be 887. Let me just see if we can This is just 800. The messes that this If you are incredible at balancing I guess this is OK if you're just going to sit Here's everything that you that you won't find in the US. Here's everything you'll you won't find in Italy. We have one exclusive chicken That is the extra-crispy. This is probably close to what you get, the Original Recipe. And then you got the extra-crispy. I mean, obviously, it's night and day. Volume up on this one. This is regular [crunching], and of course the extra-crispy If you're wondering, yes, way better, way more flavorful. Mm! We don't have extra-crispy but if you order tenders, you're going to get original and crispy. It does look much crispier. It also looks, it just because it's literally flopping. At least I can see the chicken. I can see some meat in there. This one is completely Like, it could be anything. Another exclusive are the KFC nuggets. You can get these in 12, and 36. I went with the five-piece. Now, Claudia, take a good look at this. You in Italy have popcorn chicken. Besides potential size differences, I really don't know what else In Italy we don't have nuggets, but we have popcorn chicken. We got the large, but it comes Quietly sometime last year, KFC just took popcorn and I'm pretty bummed about that. I mean, I like the nuggets, It's just something because and then the chicken-to-skin ratio is more in favor of the skin, so you get a lot of that RIP, popcorn chicken. You're very lucky, Claudia. Were you guys the guinea pigs for this, or are we the guinea pigs for I think I prefer a whole piece. I think bingeing on it's so un-Italian that I'm not sure that I'll Snacking on little bits of fried chicken while in a convenient to-go box while driving or walking around is so American, and I love it. I gotta try these. This is what America's all about. Let's move on to the chicken sandwiches. In Italy, we have the Zinger. This is supposed to be Italy's that you guys have in the US. I don't know, Joe, how does Yes, Claudia, your Zinger sandwich looks a little bit like Here's ours, and we only so no lettuce and tomato. But after I took a bite, you can see there's, like, some red here, so that's supposed to be the spice. There's the tiniest, tiniest, Then, moving on, we have the Krunky. Crunchy or Krunky. This one here is on the value menu, so it's a cheaper option. And then we've got the Colonel, We don't really have colonels here. I think we do, but we I don't think they've ever Then we got the Double Colonel. Does that mean that another person joined? Then we have the Kentucky I have to say, this is the biggest bacon that I've seen in This to me feels quite, quite fake. You can also get this one in a double. And then we have the chicken grilled. So much sauce. Sad, sad You can also get the double crispy, which is two chicken tenders in a bun. Here are sandwiches you can get in the US you can't get in Italy, The classic Chicken Little. I don't know, it's just a Here's what I would do: I would go to KFC, I'd stand in line, I'd order and then demand they give me this while I wait for the rest of my food. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's like an appetizer. And then, of course, just I have said on record several times that I think KFC might have the best fast-food chicken sandwich in America. There's also apparently an ultimate barbecue fried chicken sandwich. That was new. I think it came and went. As an Italian, I'm not so I think the idea of doesn't really resonate so well with us. So it almost hurts my eyes. There's just too much brown in it. Like, I want to see more color. Yeah, that's absolutely not the case here. As you can see, our chicken is deep-fried and covered in a mayo-y sauce. We're eating chicken Yeah, we eat a lot of beef, but we also eat a lot of chicken, and it is in no way diet We also used to have twisted but suddenly they're They're still worth mentioning, though, because of the hilarious When KFC launched them in Italy, they actually designed supposed to hold your Twisters, which is a bit of a knockoff All right, we might not have but we do have KFC Crocs. Look how cool those look. [crickets] We do have a couple wrap options. You can only get them which is not how I ordered. Anyway, you can get the classic There's also a spicy one And, apparently, you can which is a pretty good Here's a few hilarious things Over here's the Famous Bowl. Yes, Claudia, I know you're so I will tell you now. It is nuggets, mashed cheese, all in one convenient tub. So, this would be, I guess, It's really heavy. It's gotta be 90% mashed potato. It's a lot. Another American exclusive Look at the size of this thing. I think this would just Here's the thing about the You have to get them together. Having them separately It is a classic US side dish, especially with things like fried chicken. Apparently when Colonel he compared the mashed to &quot;wallpaper paste&quot; topped with &quot;sludge.&quot; But that was back in the '70s, so hopefully they've I'd say that they have. I mean, I know, like, those I understand you want to put I'd just not have any of it. But for once, the potatoes don't look so that should be a good sign. We happen to have some Italian-style although I have no idea who because none of these We have cheese puffs. To me, these look like fried Babybels. That's the only cheese that I can think of that has this shape. I think it's some kind of mozzarella. Yeah, OK. Yeah, we have bread. Just, like funny bread. It looks very dry, just by looking at it. And then we have corn on the cob. The US has off the cob. This is not Italian. I've never seen an Italian In Italy, we also have four salads, but we were not able to get them today. Those are grilled chicken, crispy chicken, and original chicken, which, we don't know how that and a veggie salad. Right, Claudia, look at that. Look at that mac and cheese. It's American mac and cheese. I mean, I don't really have because to me that's just not Italian. We just sort of gave up on it and be like, &quot;You want it? It's yours.&quot; Yeah, I get it. Like, bright yellow. But Claudia, what you can't tell is how good this tastes. Other US sides you can get here: coleslaw. Claudia was talking about corn on the cob. We got corn off the cob, aka sweet corn. I'm just thinking, in terms I don't want to be all, when I get KFC for lunch, you know? I just want to eat it and get going, so. Another thing we have here, biscuits. And I feel like you get these because it's good at sopping up things, like good at sopping up the gravy. On their own, they're I want to see if I can eat like, how long it takes me This is how dry these Only halfway through! Ugh, it hurts to talk. Time. Yeah, not my favorite. Another exclusive you is a piece of a la carte chicken. I feel like if you went into &quot;I just want one drumstick,&quot; I don't think they'd But our menu specifically has, you get an individual piece of chicken. You can get a drumstick, You get chicken in this hand, and walk right into traffic. Sauce talk, let's go. Discorso di la salsa. In Italy, we have some exclusive sauces, starting from the original. I know you guys in the Does this look similar? I think if I were making sauces, you know, trialing others after this one. Yeah, it's, like, a And then we have the smoky barbecue sauce. And then we have the sweet imperial sauce. That's a sweet and sour sauce. Very lemony, but fresh. Yeah, it's a nice one. I like this. Then move on to the 2 hot 4 U. Jelly-like. It's not too hot for you, Moving on, we also have garlic sauce. I know you guys associate Italy and Italian cuisine with garlic. Please stop doing that. We don't really like it. Then we have a fresh pepper one. This one apparently contains cheese. Tastes like not much, to be honest. We also have creamy curry. Finally, we couldn't but we do have olive oil and white vinegar and olive oil and balsamic vinegar. I don't know if you want to I have mixed feeling about it, because that's definitely more dressing. Are you curious to see how Let's try it. Olive oil and balsamic vinegar. Let's see. Kind of brought it back because it had cooled down. Yeah, I should do this It tastes less fried for some reason. Because I always associate olive oil with, like, grilled chicken. So if you want to trick that you're eating grilled maybe all you have to do is Joe: Honey mustard. Honey barbecue. That's good. Buffalo ranch. If you are unaware, we have a sauce here that usually is on wings It's a vinegary hot sauce that is a little north of mild. And the reason that is because when you eat Buffalo you dip the wings in ranch, a So we as Americans are used to pairing Buffalo sauce on the wings with ranch dressing. So they were like, let's because God forbid we have two sauces. But if you want to have everyone on the internet Ranch is just OK. It all tastes the same. Also we have a hot sauce. A honey sauce. We have a lot of dessert Most of them are just ice cream. We start from a plain ice cream cone. Then you can get sundaes. They come plain, caramel flavor, Nutella, strawberry, and chocolate. And then we have these, the Kream Balls. They come with Nutella flavor, caramel, strawberry, and chocolate. They're kind of similar to a sundae, but they have this crunchy bottom. And apparently the caramel one is supposed to have lots of layers. This is the caramel one. But I'm not sure we can because it has absolutely melted. So, we got a Nutella Kream You know those backpacks for cats? I think it's the same thing here. I'm curious about the crunchy bottom. Oh, yeah, that is crunchy. Actually it reminds me a little bit of the Algida, the Cornetto. It may have another name in the US. And they have that I mean, for us Italian, Nutella Before chocolate always comes Nutella, just no questions asked. It's always been like this. The only exclusive dessert is this: a chocolate cake. And it just occurred to me, I've actually never had this cake. Let's see how we did. Perfect. Cooked beautifully. It's got the right amount And now we taste it. Exquisite. You keep baking like that, I started off as Gordon Ramsay. Every impression I do of This is actually pretty good. Yeah, they had those which is kind of a weird thing to call it. No, I don't want any of those. I get it. I like dessert But KFC, I want to load I want to load up on mac and cheese. I want to load up on mashed potatoes. I want to load up on corn. If only someone could put Dessert? No, I want to eat fried chicken until I'm about to burst, The exclusive drinks in Italy are 7Up, Lipton iced tea, and beer. Fountain drinks you can get in the US. We do have a bunch of exclusives. I didn't get every single one, relax. All right, starting down here. Sweet tea. Oh, yeah, their lemonade. It's really good. It's addictive. And our lemonade is not Mountain Dew, it's fantastic. And the reason I saved this one for last, it's something you can get it's Mountain Dew Sweet Lightning. It's so good. Like, you and super chemically, but I love it. Other drinks you can get at was Starry and blackberry lemonade, which is currently unavailable. Which country's getting Let's compare a few Looking at the chicken which comes with a side this whole thing in Los Note, if you got each item it would be $12.77. In Italy, you can also get a similar meal that is called a Zinger meal, and that includes a sandwich, a side of choice, and a drink. This will cost you 10 euros and 40 cents. At the time of recording, So that is 5% more If you order these items individually, that will cost you 13 euros and 60 cents, and that's about $15.06. We also took a look at In Italy, the most is the 16-piece bucket. This one costs 42 euros 90 cents, which is about $47.51. This is supposed to feed four people for $11.87 per person. The most expensive item on the US menu is the 16-piece chicken meal, which includes 16 pieces of chicken, original or crispy, four large sides, eight biscuits, and it costs you $52.99. Now, this is meant to feed Sure. And it costs roughly $6.62 per person, which is 44% cheaper than Italy KFC puts a lot of effort into its meals and special offers so they can be a better Personally, in Italy, we're not We are very accustomed to That to me still feels a But this is American food, so I guess we are using If you're operating under the assumption that this is for seven people, But you and I both know We want to see if there in the nutrition of Now, this is our chicken sandwich, and it has 650 calories. And if you'll notice, there's a lot of salt over half your daily recommended intake. KFC Italy doesn't disclose their calories on their website. Actually, I think disclosing like calories and everything, I find that quite an American thing. That doesn't mean it's good or bad. It's just like, we don't really tend to count calories in things. Every &quot;Food Wars&quot; we've all the ingredients info, in the US, you can get it, no problem. Other countries, they don't provide it. Let's take a look at some ingredients that KFC uses here in Italy. Here are all the Nine is a lot. Potatoes and frying oil, how about two? Two ingredients, and a bit Let's just use one, you And here are all the ingredients 33 ingredients. That's 24 more than the That's nuts. Claudia: Nine ingredients for this thing, and it doesn't even hold its shape. I would expect it to be perfect. There's a lot of flavors like paprika, turmeric, which is funny we put that into the fries, but when making this, KFC also which removes all the color, so it seems kind of counterproductive. Like, they're taking all the color out with the bleached flour, right? And they're putting all to make them look like fries. I don't know why we do that either. So, let's have a look at the ingredients for a chicken drumstick. Italy's chicken uses a gums, and stabilizers. For example, xanthan gum and guar gum. They're used in meat products to keep the chicken tender These gums are also used for chicken that has a batter around it absorbs less oil. As I said before, Italians or nutritional value of things. And that is why I think there is a lot of work done beforehand for us in order to make the food so that if you do look at the ingredients, you are not so shocked by it. And here are the ingredients Surprisingly smaller than Italy's list, although the US has not noted like Italy has. So it would probably add Now, KFC actually uses pressure frying instead of deep frying, as it allows for faster cooking time and always keeps the meat moister, as less steam evaporates. Let's take a closer look that some of us may not recognize. OK, first up, sodium phosphate. Now, it helps stabilize the pH of the food to keep them together. But it's also popular for bowel movements. So don't be surprised if eating KFC makes you rush to the bathroom. Next up, monosodium glutamate, flavor enhancer commonly added Ugh. We're putting these Ah, this word looks like this and is probably pronounced dime-thigh-polo-sigh-lexane. Computer: Dimethylpolysiloxane. It's an antifoaming agent usually added to oils, Disodium dihydrogen pyrophosphate. This should be a contest. Anyway. OK. Prevents potatoes in the due to oxidization, which is natural for most And just to add that all these ingredients have been approved by health professionals and there are no safety concerns, as long as they're eaten which, in general, is good Chickens in the US are free of However, KFC does not disclose much else about how the chicken is prepared, nor how much chicken is used per item. As of 2019, Yum Brands, stopped purchasing chicken So I guess they're heading KFC opened their first outlet in the '70s in Naples for some reason. And then that didn't work And then they came back to Italy in 2014. The objective was to open They're not quite there yet. As of 2022, the stats say that they've opened 68 Although it's been here since 2014, it does still feel pretty new. Like, Italians are not so big on chicken, especially grilled chicken. It does still feel like KFC is so popular in the US, maybe the most popular chicken chain, fried-chicken chain at least. I think it's the fried-chicken chain to beat in the US. There's other chicken places chicken burgers. But as I don't know who's even Ah, I guess there's Popeyes. Oh, yeah, Popeyes. No, I think KFC is way I didn't say it's better. If a KFC opens in a new town, for example, in my hometown there are huge lines. There are a lot of people because it's really the idea of the American fast-food So it's exciting. It's different. Again, it's one of those you do try it because of the hype. KFC adaptability is there used to be a lot And now there's a lot less. So their adaptability is that kind of caters to people's tastes, and more like, &quot;No let's just do the nuggets. Let's take all this stuff off the menu, let's pare it down, go, and probably because it's So they've adapted to, I don't know, shifts in the market or They really don't deviate from, like, a fried chicken KFC is actually the chain that has made the least effort to Italianize the menu. I don't know. Actually, weirdly, I think that for this it works, because the idea of eating fried chicken is so foreign to us that I how would you make that Italian? You'd maybe put some, like, fried courgette flowers with the chicken? I don't know. For me to even think about that, weirdly, I think this So we'll see when they Maybe sooner than we think. Make note of the fun Colonel Wasn't this guy, like, 70 when he started Kentucky Fried Chicken? There's no way. If he's doing that, it's against his will. Moments before the ambulance was called.