This is Shot Put. It's Mii Brawler's only projectile, and is one of alongside Flashing Mach Punch and... Being a simple ball that travels in an arc, it resembles the projectiles These moves are useful both which give these otherwise short-ranged Unfortunately, Shot Put's frame Whereas these projectiles come out Shot Put takes 50% longer to This slowness makes Shot as it provides more than enough See what you're up to, and close in. This is made even easier by the fact that allowing for small or even normal-sized So if Shot Put isn't useful approaching OR Well, looking at the damage values most do a solid 7% damage or so. Pichu's ShotPut does As it turns out, to nobody's surprise, an 18% A tool like this would be good on anyone, but it's especially good on Brawler, who's It's not to say that he can't edgeguard, but being threatening from THIS far away is Better yet, Shot Put will only lose unlike other projectiles - and because this thing falls Brawler can bring the full threat of And let's be honest, waiting for the Downtime SUCKS. I'm not WAITING for someone Even when someone's deep offstage, Shot Put provides the opportunity to apply And when I said Brawler can put this As we said before, Brawler doesn't shoot This might seem like a cosmetic thing, but it gives Shot Put some immediate reach If Mario wanted to put a fireball here, he would have to shoot along this path, The absurd damage and speed forces This can put players into uncomfortable courses back onstage where they're more vulnerable to being hit by YOU. Like, take a look at this clip: I just got this Cloud offstage and, having The Cloud sees it coming, sees his damage, knows that he absolutely cannot take that, I respond with an FTilt and Cloud, now with no jump and seeing Shot realizes that airdodging might He's forced into spending limit early, I Of course, players aren't restricted to time Up-specials or aerials to clank with shotput AS LONG AS THE MOVE IS STRONG ENOUGH- I need to explain something here. If two moves' base damage are within Any greater and the stronger one wins. Note that I said "Base Damage". That's because, in a 1v1, all so the 9% rule becomes more If you ever want to know a move's base damage, UltimateFrameData lists the Also, this number is affected Shot Put, doing like, a billion damage, asks If that hitbox doesn't over This is surprisingly demanding, and Unless you really know what you're doing, that could get you killed, so more mobile This rule doesn't just apply offstage, by the way. Look at this technique: Blizzwall. This is how Ice Climbers stuff out and its really hard for most to deal with. Shot Put, however, is a beast. massive damage difference, you can And have I mentioned its The craziest part is that all this time I've only I haven't even gotten into all the weird Earlier on I mentioned that Shot Put but i didn't go into what a weak Shot Put is. So when Shot Put bounces, two things happen. One: Its damage and knockback are reduced. Hard. Like, a bounced ball barely sends offstage hard. Of course, the most obvious application of a weak, low-knockback projectile is to start But because of Shot Put's frame "consistent setup" and more "forget Two: The invisible hurtbox turns on. Yeah. Something I haven't mentioned so Like, an actual "takes attacks" hurtbox. Now, do you know the amount of stupid stuff Believe it or not, there are actually some situations where it's better to Samus's max-charge neutral B overpowers Shot Put because of the 9% rule. Shot Put just However, look at what happens when Yep. Shot Put, despite doing This is because when Shot Put is weak, and instead interacts with its hurtbox. When this happens, you can pretty much It wouldn't matter if Charge because it's programmed to This is also why Wolf's blaster will ignore And that's just the beginning. Here's Min Min's Arms are programmed to rebound This means she has to move her ARMS around Shot Put, even when it's not moving. Ramram Explosives and followups trigger on hurtboxes, which messes with interactions In this clip I stop Banjo from picking And in this clip I prematurely detonate Kaboom, Normally, hitting a bounced Shot Put disables its but this only happens after the hitstop. meaning that multihits can keep Shot Put perpetually active as long as there aren't any gaps between hits. You can set this up reliably against Piranha Plant. Just throw a ball into Poison Cloud You can also do this against PK To cap off the video, Here's what is and impractical Shot Put technique ever: The Shot Parry. Remember how Shot Put takes Well, the projectile itself is actually spawned Before firing, it has all the same properties proper timing and positioning, projectiles This is silly on its own, but that's not all. For a true Shot Parry, Get this frames of Shot Put's startup, and then B-reverse. If done correctly, you'll throw tank a projectile at the person who just fired it. I have never seen this done in bracket.