- Aliens, every science channel's favorite topic of discussion. Let's face it, it's a standard move in the Clickbait Playbook to or interpret ambiguous signals I'm sure you've seen stuff like this. The most ridiculous Michio Kaku's face and So clearly I'm making by making a video which But for the last few years, I've become increasingly that I've discussed with you today. This is an idea which you might've seen Veritasium's put together into a new which I'll link to down And by the way, this by many of you, our viewers, supporters to the Cool Worlds Lab Research program, which starts from as little once per month. Okay, let's start with One first pose in 1968 and statistician, Edwin Jaynes. Imagine that you approach a table covered by many flasks of water, is about the same, but of Likewise, the room is pretty and pressure at all locations, but slight variations Next, I hand you a random chemical. Let's call it compound X, and I ask you the following question, in what percentage of will compound X dissolve? Give me your best guess. Now, if you have no prior that one might reasonably or numbers very close to that, for the slight differences However, Jaynes argued that to guess a number of around 50%, because if it was 50%, then it would imply that the small differences from flask to flask were sufficient to tip the solubility either way. In other words, if this was true, then the conditions in the room would have to be almost perfectly between dissolving and not dissolving. Balanced on a knife edge unless someone is playing a cruel trick on you, such fine tuning would be surprising, And thus Jaynes conclude should look something like and equally so for 100%, but crucially a valley of This thought experiment provides some conceptual understanding, but Jaynes went further than that this must be true, and he's now credited of what we now call Objective Bayesianism in modern statistic. Now, Jaynes never really to astrobiology, but for me, ever since I heard about the connection was obvious. But instead of those flasks of water, we would now have possible seats and instead of asking whether we instead ask whether intelligent life eventually develops or not. When we look out at the stars in the sky, we wonder what percentage of them could have intelligent life. Jaynes already seems to It is likely a number or nearly 100% to quote Arthur C. Clark. Both are equally terrifying. Now, a basic question that is how does this all square which defines the number of in the galaxy and as a product I know, I know before you comment, many of you hate the Drake equation. Trust me, I hear you. But I think it's become popular to dunk on the Drake equation without to what Drake said. The real reason why the has been dragged through the dirt is because it is an equation and frankly even abused. You're not supposed to guess and then write a new paper for claiming that there are 42 It's too long of a but fortunately, I have all about this up here. So if we can accept for the moment that in principle a Drake like then it seems intention who argued for a kind of all A ninja move in our new that the two perspectives can be unified by adding in a new element which frankly should have for it to make any sense. As it stands, the Drake equation Yes, we have some constraints but that's not really what I mean. What I mean is that even prior on these terms, one can make arbitrarily large numbers As an example, let's set to one civilization and the star formation rate Congratulations, you now in the Milky Way that have The problem is that there in the galaxy to begin with. This is why the canonical framing of the Drake equation makes no sense. There are many of the problems Like here we have seven input variables, but why should it be seven? We could easily extend Someone might reasonably say for how often multicellular life develops as a critical step, and that we need language development and so on and so on. For years, I've argued with this specific formulation to the simplest form we can what I call The Birth-Death Formalism in any volume, be it a the number of civilizations of birth and death. Some number of civilizations and some are dying. Drake's original equation is of this idea with the first six terms, in fact, representing the birth rate and the last term being In my opinion, it is all that cause the problems at the Drake equation, far to the process of birth and death. After some settling time, we population to reach an equilibrium point for which the number of births of deaths per year, balance. - Perfectly balanced as - The total number of births per unit time must simply be the birth rate per location multiplied by the number which is the number of total stars minus those already occupied. Similarly, the number is the average death rate per location multiplied by the number Equating these two is the balance point, a steady state condition we can write that the fraction of stars which are occupied must equal this. In fact, for notational convenience, let's call this F, the and this term on the right lambda BD, the birth to death rate ratio. Now, so far, all we have assumed is that the galactic population That is to say it is not going of population explosion or decline. Also, I've been referring but you can switch it out for planets or even cubic light years if you prefer. The equation still holds. Finally, we are being of birth and deaths here. Births could be spontaneous or they could be through empire building. Likewise, deaths could be due to internal forces or external ones. In any case, the equation still holds. So let's make our graph of of stars which are occupied Starting over here, when the is tiny, there are hardly any births, and anyone who does get As a result, the galaxy is nearly empty. As we dial this ratio and more civilizations eventually increasing the any higher has diminishing returns. By this point, nearly the entire There's just not much benefit If the shape of this curve looks This S-shape curve appears in including in ecological systems. A fact known since at for example, if you let mold we start out with very little mold, and then we see it spread rapidly before finally getting to a because there's basically Like civilizations in a galaxy, we can't have more mold Another example is tech adoption. So you have your early adopters buying that first generation iPhone, and then the mainstream gets in on it before eventually growth stores because now everyone has an iPhone and Apple have approached The Birth-Death Formalism solves the issue of Drake's original as well as littered with arbitrary Great, but how does this connect or nothing conclusion? Well, it's apparent from Previously, I said the minimum to be 10 to the minus three But truthfully, the numbers could be much, much more extreme than this. Let's extend the axis out to In doing so, the neck of the S-curve gets narrower and narrower. In this picture, there is a where the galaxy is nearly empty, and there is a huge where the galaxy is nearly full, but only a tiny, tiny where we have intermediate values. In other words, this is finally tuned. This is the connection back to Jaynes. In fact, in our paper, If we adopt a loguniform which is the typical uninformative prior for a scale parameter like that F follows Jaynes's We get all the way back to his result. - Huh? See that? - So there's something profound here. Not only have we connected the viewpoints of Drake and Jaynes together, that the conclusion is the same for both. The galaxy is either teaming or it's nearly devoid of them, but something in between This conclusion poses a challenge for those seeking the signatures of technological civilizations out there, because let's face it, it that nearly every single star has a technological After decades of listening we only hear silence. We don't see engineered or laser beams sweeping the sky. Indeed, we don't see anything out there that cannot be explained by natural law. If the occupation fraction then I think we'd really have to do some mental gymnastics here to make sense of how astronomers just seem to see a lonely empty galaxy. Yet more even Earth's history since technology has only been of its entire lifetime. So if we dismiss the then there's really only two options left. One is that the answer of that S-curve or equivalently in Jaynes's valley of improbability or two, the answer is of a desolate galaxy, which objectively is a far more likely outcome. Hence, the title of this where really what we're to set an alien signal that the improbable against all of the odds. When I came to this conclusion, I felt torn even a little distressed because for me, the search for is one of the most exciting and I grew up dreaming of So let's just be clear I have zero desire or intent to tell you that but at the same time, what our resource imply. So I have of course to rip apart my own paper out of this, which by the anytime you write a scientific paper. There's a couple of escape Two cards we might pull to try and rig our way out of this box. The first is that we may of a mostly lonely galaxy, but that's okay because the plateau doesn't It just says that very few all we need to do is Modern SETI surveys typically or so, but of course, there's to go just in our own galaxy perhaps. Then we just need to up the Mathematically, success is some number greater than of stars in our sample, it must be less than roughly one, else we'd approach the that we've already discounted. The problem is that even if our sample was the entire galaxy, there's no obvious lower limit on just how ridiculously small lambda BD could be. There's no useful theory of civilization, birth and death rates. As an example, let's say the true value was 10 to the power minus 30. In that case, even after the probability of finding would be 10 to the power minus 19, an unthinkably fringe outcome. And here's the kicker. There is absolutely no could not indeed be 10 or indeed a value far, far smaller. Now, yes, one can have for a higher value, but that from an evidential position. - What is faith? It is belief No, I don't propose to tell but for me, believing when is a mistake. The idea is to withhold belief until there is compelling evidence. - Perhaps a more promising avenue is to violate the fundamental that the population, the of birth death balance. Remember, that's basically Now, if this were true, would be in the state of decline or alternatively, an ascent. A decline seems immediately improbable. There is nothing about the universe which is making it less In fact, really quite the opposite. If anything, the early universe was a far more hostile place littered with gamma-ray bursts, Supernova and rapid star formation phases. A population in a sense perhaps a galactic empires in descendants and thus engineering through some colonization programs. This is perfectly possible, and I know there are many of this idea, but for me, this actually introduces To see this, consider that of our existing space to colonize the entire galaxy than the galaxy's current age. When sped up over cosmic timescales, colonization waves look like almost immediate phase transitions. They happen very quickly. Either we live before this ever emerged, in which case or we live during the expansion phase, which is an incredibly brief episode in cosmic history remember, or we live post colonization phase, which contradicts our So despite my best efforts, I personally can't find a way out of the pessimism, our paper implies. Despite all of this, there are two reasons why we should keep First, the potential return. Yes, the probability might be small, but the ROI could be incalculable. The greatest discovery in all of science. If we give up and we stop searching, then we guarantee not detecting anything. And second, perhaps we really are in the field galaxy scenario, after all, something I with observations earlier. So how can that be? Well, so far I've been talking exclusively about technological civilizations, which indeed seem to be ostensibly rare, but I certainly cannot discard being around nearly every The truth is that we have of that at all, and with Earth's history and geography, and who knows, maybe they do want to develop technology very often too. It's just that it looks nothing like anything we can even really imagine. So when we look out and see perhaps it's just because for the trees, we're not If so, we need to diversify our methods, not just aim to increase our My thinking on this over the last few years, in real time on this channel, and I'm sure it will continue to do so in the future as well. But you know what? That We iterate. We don't stagnate. I think that Jaynes's perspective to approach this problem. We sometimes forget the Hopefully, this starts new discussions on how to proceed going forward. For me, this is always to wrestle with that. I'm sure I'll be pondering these questions until my final days. As creatures of curiosity, like in insatiable itch to over and over again in the hope that one day, we might finally crack it. So until next time, stay (upbeat techno music) Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed this, then like and subscribe buttons. Those two little actions And if you haven't already, you might wanna check out for many more great conversations. Look, if you're trying to find a way to support everything we're doing here from the research to the and the best way to do so, and down below where you to my research team, the Cool Worlds Lab, from as little as the with access to all kinds of special perks. So please do check it out and (upbeat techno music)