Once you have understood all the basic rules notation. You might ask, "Why is this so important?" Well, if you want to play a chess tournament learning the game, you need to know how to Algebraic chess notation is an official method the moves in a game of chess. This is what we generally call the language about chess. So let's start with the absolute basics. Look, each column on the chess board is called Every file on the chessboard is given a letter, of the board and going all the way to the Each rank is assigned a number from 1 to 8, Remember, at the start of a chess game, all and all the black pieces are placed on ranks Based on this concept of files &amp; ranks, every name &amp; identity. Each square is simply named after its coordinate Which means, this square on the lower left-hand We identify it by simply putting together Similarly, this square is called d6 since This square, for example, will be called f7. And this one is h8. In this way, we can easily assign a name to Now let's see how we can notate all the It's actually quite straightforward. We just need to use the first letter of each Which means the King's letter is a capital capital Q, the bishop, a capital B, the knight Since the letter K is already reserved for the letter N. Now finally, you may think that pawns would pawns, we don't use any such letters so Now that you know the names of the squares to learn the notation of actual moves in a To write a move, we simply combine the notation it moves to. Remember, you only need to mention the square where it was originally. Let's take an example. In this game, when white plays this as the The capital 'N' is for the knight &amp; f3 Another thing to remember is that a piece letter of the square is always in lowercase. Now say, for example, black plays this move, Yes, it will be written as d5. As I mentioned earlier, there is no letter And since the square it moves to is on the this move as d5 only. Similarly, this move will be written as Nc3, And this one will be written as Bf5, which As you can see, for every move, we first write move. We keep doing this till the end of the game in a game of chess. Okay, now let's talk about some special Look, we have different symbols for captures, Let's look at them one by one. To show a piece capture, we use a small 'x' For example, in this position, if white takes notate it as a capital 'B' for the bishop, &amp; finally c6, for the destination square where Similarly, if this black pawn captures this means we are talking about this pawn on the by e3 - the destination square, which ultimately Okay, now let's talk about pawn promotion. When a pawn moves to the last rank and promotes equal to' &amp; after that, we indicate the Say, for example, in this position, if white to a queen, then we write it as e8 is equal this bishop on d1 and promotes to a knight, to N. I think you got the point. Alright, now let's look at the symbol for For a move that places the opponent's king at the end. Here's an example. In this position, if white checks the black it as R for the rook, followed by a8, followed Now in this same position, if white takes write it down as Q for the queen, followed by c5 for the destination square, followed So that's queen takes on c5 with a check. Okay, now let's talk about a checkmate. A checkmate is represented by the hash symbol, For example, in this game, when this rook Therefore, we will write it as R for the rook, by h4, which is the destination square, followed Now let's move on to some special moves If you are not aware of these rules, then to play chess' video by clicking on this Let's talk about castling first. For kingside castling, which is the short 0 or O dash O, however you want to say it. On the other hand, for queenside castling, notation 0 dash 0 dash 0 or the 3 Os. It's quite straightforward. Now let's look at en passant. In this position, if black plays pawn to f5, en passant. Therefore, when white takes this pawn, we earlier. We begin with the letter g where this pawn capture, followed by f6 and not f5 because pawn. It's nothing different, just that you need Alright, now let's look at some unique positions to the same square. Let's understand this with the help of an In this position, it's white's turn &amp; say to e4. Generally, you would simply notate this move knight could move to the e4 square. So if we write just Ne4, then how will you Well, in such situations, where two or more we need to specify either the file, rank or In this case, both these knights are on different This knight is on the c file &amp; this knight Therefore, when this knight moves to e4, we c for the C file where this knight was, followed the c file has moved to e4 and not this one. Let's take another example. Now let's say black wants to capture this How will you notate this move? You cannot use this 'a' here since both In this case, since the files of both the the ranks. This rook is on the third rank &amp; this one Since both these rooks are on different ranks, Therefore, we will notate this move as R for this rook originally was, followed by x for square. In summary, for such situations, you need First, you will check the files of both the If they are different, then you simply use If the files are the same, like you see here, pieces. If they are different, then you will use the And in some rare cases, where both the file identify the piece, then you need to use both Here's a unique example. White has these three queens because of multiple In this position, it is white's turn &amp; he queen. So we start with Q for the queen. Now we cannot use 'h' since even this We cannot use '4' either since this queen Therefore, we will have to specifically use After this, we use 'x' for the capture, followed by this hash because it is also a This is one of the most complicated examples Now that you have learnt all this, here's How will you notate this move by white? Let me know the correct chess notation in Let's see how many of you get this right! If you liked this tutorial, then hit the thumbs And don't forget to Subscribe to our channel me on Instagram at Chess Talk Official. Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my