the mandalorians are famed as some of the fiercest Galaxy these children of Mandalore have long been common Creed however they were once a United brought the Republic to its knees today let us in our digital age we spent a lot of time online and services but that's a huge risk to your own special you'll know just how vast The Brokerage they have and how many people are being traded quite scary and I know personally I've seen a calls data leaks all kinds of stuff it's crazy our sponsor aura Aura is an all-in-one Internet real-time credit and identity theft monitoring production but for me the best feature is are exposing your information and automatically even opt you out of junk mail and telemarketing legally there's always that CD underbelly of detect when your information has been involved the dark web and will give you recommendations safety tools for a great deal and if you sign up by using my link aura.com Invicta or scanning much private information Aura finds expose on While the Mandalorians are most commonly their origins back to the core world of Coruscant. that several humanoid species vied for control Taung and the 13 nations of the Zhell which some burned for many centuries. It was during one Zhell were on the brink of destroying the Taung. volcanic eruption devastated the attackers, wiping The Taung saw this as a divine omen, and, they waged a brutal counterattack against their Zhell eventually rallied. The tides turned and These refugees now fled into the stars, Located in a treacherous region of recover their strength beyond Yet the planet itself posed its own risks. plains, jungles, and mountains, it was prone of predators such as the shriek hawks and a resilient people who lived a largely nomadic new environment. Over thousands of years they This era's history goes largely unrecorded, its tales passed down through the generations. Key who came to be known as Mandalore the First. He their military, and exterminating the Mythosaurs In honor of his achievements, the Taung &quot;sons and daughters of Mandalore&quot; while renaming In his wake it would become custom for the of &quot;Mand'alor&quot; who functioned as both head of traditionally symbolised by a mask which would The role was non-hereditary with each subsequent prove to the clans that they had both the It would be under the direction of these new their rise to power. This was best exemplified by It was under his leadership that the Mandalorian from the deeply martial and religious elements of structured warrior ethos. Chief among these were tenets of how to live one's life as a Mandalorian. the Canons of Honor as a means of worship These traditions produced highly motivated, Yet while they excelled in individual combat, when it came to large scale warfare. BUT, could be wielded to deadly effect. This was who managed to rally the Crusaders for a to neighbouring planets within their system with Around the year 4000 BBY, Mandalore the new heights by carving a bloody path through the course with the brewing war between the For instance when Mandalore led an invasion of the Ulic Qel-Droma. The two fought in a climactic he bound Mandalore to his cause with Mandalorian Crusaders now given a new purpose In this Great Sith War there would be many moments For instance, a surprise attack upon the seize an entire fleet's worth of warships. overwhelming the garrison and Jedi forces and long ago chased off their ancestors. From here depots before launching back into the This campaign would eventually climax Despite displays of great valour and initial back by the defenders. In the retreat, Mandalore vaunted mask would be recovered, he left behind a Had they not brought the galactic republic to all other militaries in the galaxy? Where then, a field of scattered corpses, a dying species, the Mandalorians needed to settle, they Some had realised this sooner rather than later. gaining traction in the last decade. They had been illegitimate, especially after having been will to that of the Sith. They also criticised the new methods of discipline and structure in what For a time they existed as a fringe group. However change would come when Mandalore the This new Mandalore was also a reformist at heart. He recognized the strength that structure blending it with traditional Mandalorian culture. Neo-Crusaders being tested in the vanguard of his units would be integrated across the wider armed Another major reform was to expand the would the Mandalorians primarily be composed brought into the fold. But rather than dilute sent to newly established training complexes in the traditions which had long forged the With the advent of the new Mandalorian at how each individual evolved, The earliest generations of Crusaders would As mentioned previously, they lived the Thus primitive Crusaders would likely have In the early years this meant donning equipment Defensively this meant the adoption of of the planet, notably the mighty Mythosaur. weapons including blaster pistols and rifles. also wielded melee weapons which were variants As they began to expand, Soon Crusaders could be seen sporting more shoulder pauldrons, vambraces, a breastplate, Offensively they used an ever expanding range of of the greatest enemies in this regard would be wars with the Mandalorians quickly adapting their One approach was to keep up in terms of jetpacks to move more quickly or repulsors to Another approach was to deploy a wider range of their lasers deflected could be swapped guns or slugthrowers which were harder gauntlets as platforms for deploying a range This included darts, grappling lines, and the deadly whistling birds whose self-guided Much of this evolution would have been accelerated neo-crusaders. For instance, their emphasis the standardisation of armour sets. These in turn to equip the new ranks of Mandalorians. Designs with additional features such as integrated comms for combat in hostile environments including existed to provide increased stealth for scout In these matters, the Mandalorian Armorers were adoption of Beskar. This was a precious metal, its moon Concordia. In its purest form, Beskar galaxy, capable of withstanding blaster fire The method of forging with this legendary material generations of Mandalorians. Skilled smiths weapons such as the Beskad sword, the Munit'Kad But perhaps the most coveted Beskar Created around 1050 BBY by Tarre Vizsla, the Jedi Order, it would come to be legitimacy which one could only attain by But how did one train to fight as As had been the case for generations, Mandalorian society functioning as a crucible This is best exemplified by the Resol'Nare, It was sung to children in the cradle One could not be a Mandalorian without following to wear mandalorian armor to provide for the clan to speak the language of the Mandalorians Beyond this Mandalorian combat training varied. raiding with individuals naturally evolving into hackers, saboteurs, swordsmen, and the training camps meant to raise the newly have provided more structured drills. This ranged terrorism exercises, and torture resistance all This brutality was characteristic of and pragmatism took center stage, as always, So how would these Crusaders be organised for between the early and the late crusaders. The independent habit that could only be tamed by ruler. Thus one might be able to make out the social hierarchy. At the top was the Mandalore the Clans. Each would have its own ever-shifting The Neo-Crusaders meanwhile sought to introduce of labour not found in traditional Mandalorian the Great Houses, and the Clans but there from the Field Marshall, to the Rally In addition there were also more defined It is at this point that we should also mention Mandalorian armed forces. Among the smallest These were semi-sentient combat droids whose Yet despite their small size they pulse wave canons, shatter-missiles, and ability to fly in and out of atmosphere made In a class above these were the Teroch-type Both were fast and nimble vessels used to swarm Often these would be used to clear dropships that would be used to deploy All of these would be transported between of the fleet. During the Crusaders, these However we should still note and other capital-class ships did exist. Though known thanks to their formidable arsenals and strategically they proved able to With this understanding in mind let us now return prepared to lead the Neo-Crusaders on a grand new washed over the Outer Rim Territories. Early of achieving spectacular victories For instance the naval Battle of Althir over the planet's outer defences. The break the impasse by attacking the enemy's flank However during this operation, an intrepid opportunity to strike directly at the enemy this succeeded in splitting the Althiri formations assessment proved that the new methods of command multipliers. The Neo-Crusader movement had Such glorious displays now further Soon many planets were raided and sacked. The the Mandalorians launching a surprise attack knocked out planetary defenses, and exterminated bombardments and drone sweeps. In this way were Soon Mandalore the Ultimate had carved out a new them to grow ever more powerful with each new he made sure to consolidate his holdings by and conscripting or enslaving many peoples. Within operational bases and war forges primed to take This did not go unnoticed. The Republic to the waves of refugees fleeing the For a time, either side sized the other up Yet it was in these matters that the Their organised vanguard methodically in the Republic's armour, and setting This would come in the form of a massive, overwhelmed the Republican defences which had The savagery of Mandalore the Ultimate proved resistance when he showed no hesitation in all targets. It was in this way that he glassed fleet before turning its now isolated Republican salvaged to forge new weapons of war. Time and driving the dagger ever deeper During this time, the Jedi High Council themselves in the war. They had been the horrific militarism of the Great Sith peace. Yet this stance would prove untenable At this time a charismatic young Jedi, later break this interdiction and strike back. buckling front lines of the warfront. Here they Mandalorians and visited many of the planets Using these reports they were able to make a small allowance for limited numbers of Jedi Soon this token force under the brilliant up to the Mandalorians in a series of minor of their duties and Revan's rapid promotion. For Mandalorian assault force, he was able to rally the raiders from making off with large amounts Revan was named Supreme Commander with direct From this position he was able But in order to begin pushing them back, superior industrial might of the Republic. where victory would slowly be gained through the For instance when the Mandalorians managed to the Battle of Jaga's Cluster, Revan would attacks along the war front while leading two The campaign lasted months and saw an estimated 10 In theory these were the numbers of generated by these actions stretched their which allowed Revan to isolate and destroy This was a huge blow to the pride of Mandalore But this was the exact response the Jedi had Here Revan, increasingly influenced by the Dark as bait. The Mandalorians, seeing this apparent seemingly vulnerable fleet. But soon after the arrived, trapping the Mandalorian fleet and Sensing his doom, Mandalore made a desperate The Jedi accepted without hesitation. Their duel, ultimately ended with a victorious Revan. Yet As the Republican fleet closed in on their It is at this moment that Revan sprung his final secret super-weapon, the Mass Shadow Generator. formed. The vast majority of ships - both Republic as was the planet itself. In the wake of surrendered unconditionally. And In the weeks that followed, Revan ordered of their weapons and armour while their fleets This was a crippling blow to the Crusaders. one as they could very well rally behind the Thus it was that he sought to slay the by refusing to return the hallowed Mask of founded. In the years that followed, the drifting aimlessly from conquering Crusaders But their story will have to wait for topic both entertaining and enlightening. For now be sure to head on over to our Patreon and grab HD downloads of our art. A big thanks to the researchers, writers, and artists for making consider subscribing and checking out the