Do you ever feel invisible? Many women say this to me as they they go into their 60s that they world and I think that there are So I'm just going to run through them them and talk about some of the invisible because that's not a nice So the four reasons that I think do with our physical appearance, heard at home, society and media. And number four, which is feel invisible to ourselves. So let's start with physical appearance. So as we get older, our Our hair loses its colour Our eyebrows get thinner and We get the crow's feet around our eyes. Our eyes can sink in and then of as the upper eyelid becomes looser. Our lips grow thinner. It's as if we're actually And round our faces. This part of our faces starts to was when we were young, as does Black doesn't suit me. I know this. Have you ever had your colors done? It makes such a difference It makes you feel brighter. It makes you more visible in the world. You see a lot of older women who have wear bright colors and patterns. They might wear makeup. I always feel brighter if How do you walk? Have you adopted that You know, that kind of Stop that. We don't need to apologize for being here. We need to take our space. I was watching somebody the other in public and he was saying, um, a we balance on one leg and that And what we need to do is plant really kind of own our presence. And if you try that, if you feel a little taller, rolling your shoulder blades down back, and really planting your feet. Feel more grounded. I think that you'll find that you Which brings me on to Now, if you've been married for a long lot of what you want to say to each other. I spend a lot of my time alone. My husband is still working. He's out of the house a lot. And then when he isn't out of the house, just trying to chill out playing on his going to watch the rugby in the winter. There's not a lot of conversation. You might have older children. Now, who has older children I know I didn't when mine were at home. So we start to feel as if we're kind of So how do we counter that? Well, we surround ourselves by people to hear what our views are on things, husband's phone every now and again. I mean, it's just Bless him, But it is the case that you can Number three, society and media. I mean, that's a big one, isn't it? I think there's much more women in the press and on the TV. But we still get that old thing, You've got the younger female wiser father figure of a man. Representation is important, and See women who are super smart up and of course they've been in And they've got the hairdresser there the things that perhaps make you We need more representation of women You know, I'm making assumptions about I think that we need representation. of what women in their 60s And that's why I've put my face on this ago with absolutely no makeup whatsoever. Because that's what 63 looks like for me. And I want the world to see me as I am. I don't want to have to And I think that more often that the more visible women And on the subject of changing physical I did a project a few years ago back bare face truth of midlife women. And I'll put a link to the video It's very short, um, 14 minute Um, and you can hear them. say what they think of their growing older in general. And you can see the portraits, women over 40 without their makeup. It's a project that's really close you enjoy watching that film. And if you really enjoy it, Now, if there are any guys watching this, Do you feel less visible now Men are allowed to age and women have not But I'd be interested to know, do Let me know in the comments. And finally, we have what I think things that make us feel invisible. And that has become, I mean, put becoming invisible to ourselves. If you're going around taking in all these feeling disconnected with the way you How do we counter that? Well, we've said before about surrounding drains, as they say, people who lift where you are in your life and are But also, we need to look after ourselves. You know, a lot of stuff is bandied To me self care isn't about having I mean a bit long soak in a Self care is much deeper than that though. Self care is about taking time for first, about being selfish in the So take back your visibility. There's a wonderful song that I like to There's a little snippet here. He says, I won't sit down and I won't shut That's it. I won't sing anymore, I promise. But I love that because no, I This We refuse to become invisible. We're here, we're entitled to be here. Embrace it. If you've enjoyed this video, I'd love to know what you think. And if you've got any more tips the world, in midlife and beyond. See you next time.