Well everyone, here it is, your most asked And to be fair, I can understand the curiosity It is the only moon with a substantial atmosphere. There is clear evidence of stable bodies of And best of all, mankind has visited it so and video footage! I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching to know about Saturn's biggest moon, Titan. But let's start from the beginning and give some context to this remarkable planet-like Titan is the sixth spherical moon from Saturn, in the Saturn system Titan is all by itself The rest of Saturn's moons are pretty small To give some idea of how big it is, Titan's and it is 80% more massive. In fact, it is the second-largest moon in Ganymede. It does actually appear slightly bigger than side by side, but this is caused by Titan's diameter. Even so, Titan's real diameter is still but it's only 40% as massive. As its density is quite low for its volume, or 1.35m/s2, which is even less than our moon. Due to Titan's low density, it is thought half rocky material. And like other celestial objects this size, interior. This means it has layers, and like a lot of thought to be a liquid ocean comprised of This liquid ocean is comparable to Earth's and the crust, which has been made liquid - tidal forces. The existence of this liquid layer was proven Saturn - discovered extremely low-frequency Titan's surface is not known to be a good a liquid ice interior would be. Another point is that surface features on Cassini started observations, which could the core, but is rather floating on this liquid And while there is no evidence of life on could be right for there to be life in this Unfortunately, if there was life to be found a while as there are no planned missions to Europa is a more likely candidate to be investigated The differentiated interior of Titan does Titan is still quite protected from the solar is within Saturn's own magnetosphere. Titan orbits Saturn once every 15 days and 22 hours, and has a rather large orbital eccentricity, Its orbital plane is also at an angle. But that doesn't mean that Titan is likely Rather, like Jupiter's Galilean moons, it moons in the past, but most of these had been Titan the lone victor. Saturn's medium sized moons, like Iapetus this tumultuous beginning. Titan's day, like the day on our Moon, is This means Titan's rotation is tidally locked the planet. Not that visually it makes any difference; the view of its surface from an outside perspective. On the other hand you might just about be the view would be significantly obscured. This does mean however that if you were to move in the sky. Removing Titan's haze, this is what it would This leads us on to one of the topics that truly sets Titan apart from the rest of the atmosphere. I remember the first time I ever saw a photo occurred to my young self that a moon I thought it must have been a new planet that To me, what looks odd about the atmosphere When you see a picture of Earth, you see that the planet. Titan on the other hand looks like it has There are a number of reasons for this. The first one is that Titan is a lot smaller more massive than Earths, or 7.3 times more The second reason is that Titan's gravity doesn't pull it down as strongly. The mass of the atmosphere actually means 45% more than the atmospheric surface pressure And comparing the two, you can see the extent into space. 600km high is only the limit of the mesosphere. Earth's mesosphere on the other hand stops Even at a distance of 975 km, the Cassini a stable orbit against atmospheric drag when Like Venus, Titan is a "super-rotator", the rotation of the planet. This can especially be seen at the poles on rotates once every 9 hours compared with the The vortexes on each pole seem to be like So what does the atmosphere consist of? And why is it orange in colour? Well, the atmosphere is 98.4% nitrogen, the of hydrogen. There are also trace amounts of hydrocarbons atmosphere due to UV light, and it is these its orange hue. This constant breakup of methane to hydrocarbons within 50 million years, a very short space This means there must be a source that replenishes cryovolcanoes, although biological life has The methane in the atmosphere creates a greenhouse would be a lot lower. Conversely however, the haze also reflects effect, which cancels out some of the potential While Titan's upper atmosphere gets 1% of from Titan to the Sun, another result of this Titan only gets about 0.1% in the end. The Huygens team likened the difficulty of pictures of an asphalt parking lot at dusk&quot;. All these things combined means that while it would be dark, a human would only need an oxygen mask and to wrap up extremely warm to be comfortable while standing on the surface of Titan. It really is cold on Titan. -183c on average. This means any water on Titan remains solid, Then why then are there sometimes clouds on Titan? Well, these are not water ice clouds, but Which means yes, it can rain methane on Titan. In fact, the temperature on Titan is just Methane freezes at -182.5c and boils at -161.5c. The temperature, combined with the surface prospect of there being hydrocarbon lakes water lakes and seas on Earth. If there really were lakes on this ever been observed outside of Earth. This was actually one of the main driving to see what there was under that thick atmosphere. The Huygens probe, named after the astronomer to enter Titan's atmosphere and land on The possibility of even landing on an ocean process. As the probe descended, its parachute was it finally rested on the solid surface of Sadly, it wasn't able to see any lakes, lakes once existed, as Huygens landed on what appeared to be a dried up lake bed. These stones you can see from the surface found in a river or lake on Earth. Cassini, from the perspective of space, was found on Titan today. Near the south pole, Cassini observed an area Ontario Lacus. It is 20% smaller than its North American it is still pretty big at 15,000 sq km. On this side of the lake, you can see a smooth On the west side, you can see the first evidence liquid hydrocarbons flow down higher plains the same process you would find on Earth. Ontario Lacus is extremely shallow, only estimated point likely to be just over 7m. As Cassini radar mapped this lake, it found meaning the surface would appear like a sheet This doesn't mean there can't be bigger but the likelihood is that it was simply not The atmospheric density and gravity on Titan than they would be on Earth. As the North Pole began to come out of a 15 Jingpo Lacus. As Cassini was passing by the moon, sunlight like a mirror, directly into the view of Cassini. Upon further observation, Cassini was able on Titan, as can be seen by these rivers flowing The second biggest lake on Titan to be discovered is Found in the north polar region of Titan, a surface area of 126,000 sq km. While parts of this lake are reasonably shallow, Lacus at 50m, and some parts of it could reach Plenty of rivers can be seen flowing into around this area here. A particularly curious observation Cassini appearance and disappearance of what appears Although scientists are unsure exactly what be silt suspended in the lake, bubbles, or lake warmed during the moon's spring. But still, very curious! The largest lake on Titan, at 400,000 sq km As you can see, the lake is split up into quite similar to Earth's strait of Gibraltar. Its nickname is the "Throat of the Kraken". Because of tidal forces and the size of the 1m and so this strait may have strong currents The Kraken Mare is also quite deep in comparison 170m. So we know about the lakes on Titan now, but it have? Well, plenty actually. Titan's surface is quite young, as young surface must be geologically active. Some scientists believe the dirty ice crust also evidence to suggest there is tectonic forces with Saturn. The main factor of a renewed surface, however, the methane in the atmosphere - cryovolcanoes. Now this is pretty interesting, you know how comes out of the ground it freezes, well Titan and ammonia. And when it comes out of the cryovolcanoes renew the surface. Because a water and ammonia blend is a lot lava on Earth. This means mountains are more flat, and will While it is hard to confirm specific cryovolcanoes the atmosphere, the most likely candidate In this image height has been exaggerated of the sides of the dome, and the 1.7km deep The force necessary for this to erupt would appear to be active now, it is being actively The fact that lava on Titan is a mix of water be compared to dirty ice. Because we know that Huygens bounced and wobbled have a rough idea of what the consistency Scientists have referred to it as soft damp Another theory is that it is like snow with Imagine walking on frozen snow, it you're if you stomp too hard you will sink in quite Titan is believed to be something like this. Titan's highest mountains come in the form These ridge belts could also be a form of The largest mountain on Titan can be found Mithrim Montes, and is 3,337m high. Interestingly, mountains this tall are thought Also found on Titan are many gorges, valleys Using infrared cameras to see the surface are these large patches of dark terrain. Originally, these dark patches were thought on one of those areas, known as Shangri-La. They could well have been seas in the past, Similar to the Namib Desert on Earth, they Overall, Titan can be compared to Earth in Scientists think that Titan shows signs of much colder. It's fair to say that Titan is remarkably own mission one day. Cassini has done a great job, but it was never be over. What I would find extremely fascinating is it won't be long until a new mission to Until then, here was everything you could As you might guess, this is a start of a new System's Moons". It will be much the same format as the "Our some point, I will also do an "Our Solar the next most requested video, Pluto plus So there's still a lot to look forward to I hope you'll subscribe so you don't miss