Maps I find dumb. Genghis Khan. All right, leader of the Mongol Empire. &quot;Genghis Khan't.&quot; Okay, I see what's happening. World map if Australia Yep, that's- That's literally it. They have kept the which is nice. World map warped by those And it's basically just and everywhere else isn't. Makes sense. Looking at an upside down you've been trained all and you've just whacked a face on an upside down British Isles. This is so dumb! (laughing) You've just added bits of red and blue so it makes more sense. Ah! The UK North-South divide Ooh, look at this. What better than an overpriced supermarket to demonstrate national wage imbalance. That's actually quite interesting and sad. Justice for the North. Europe if it was invisible. This isn't a dumb map. This is really cool. So it's each country's and we see all the differences. Which is the best? Poland's is pretty cool. Popular bestselling artists Ah, here we go. So we've got the Beatles from Liverpool or Merseyside, The northwest seems to Robbie Williams, Oasis, Gary Barlow. Although we do have Elton And interestingly all of the I don't recognise any of the musicians other than Sting from Tyne and Wear. Map of Europe but it includes all of Europe's overseas territories. And as we can see, there's And that is a big slice South America, but South America is Brazil and Brazil is South America. Okay, so you've literally and it still kind of (laughing) Whoa. Traditional hats of Europe. Well this is amazing. Look at all of the fez's I couldn't name any of the UK hats. I'm assuming that's Morris dancing. What's Sherlock Holmes's hat called? It's like a blood hound hat or something. Deerstalker. Yep, totally what I said. (laughing) This is so good, I'm Is that not offensive? Map of the UK according to Americans and it's just all London. (laughing) Do you know what? So many times over my YouTube career I've had an American Hey man, I'm heading We should meet up for the day. And they're just blissfully unaware that I'd have to be on a (laughing) Wait, what? Maximum size of a PDF. You can apparently have a No, no, that's insane. North America, Central No, do not post stuff like this. It only makes it more The Americas are already without this kind of stuff popping up. Ah, this is incredible. The surface area of the Oh, that's cool. This doesn't deserve to be in a video called 'maps I find dumb'. Look at that. It's just the moon plonked Sometimes I look up at the I- I w-wish I was on- I would like to go to the moon. (laughing) The USA mapped to scale on the moon. Oh, we flipped it the other way. Oh, why have they made it What's that about? It's pretty insane though 'cause I mean the USA, absolutely massive. It really puts things into perspective. Random fun moon related did you know that no one born after 1935 has set foot on the moon? How crazy is that? If the human population held a significant portion of Map of Switzerland, but it's actually just a map of Swaziland, the former name for down in South Africa. This is so stupid. Terrible maps. Okay, this part of Europe uses butter. This part uses olive oil. This part uses sour cream. Is that true? American states without and &quot;A&quot;. All right Washington becomes Wshngtn, Oregon becomes Ogon, Montana becomes Onton, Wyoming becomes Wyong, California becomes Lfon, Nevada becomes Nvd, Utah is Uth, Arizona's Zon, New Mexico is Nw Xo. (laughing) We also have North Dkot and South Dkot. Nbsk, Knss, Oklho, Ssou, Ow, Hgn, Ndn, Oho, Kntuky, You get the idea. (laughing) Chile and Argentina, I mean, yeah. Map of honking culture. Okay, apparently the red is it's to common to honk your car horn. And the blue is isn't common. People honk their car horns in the UK. So I don't think that deserves to be blue. I'm not saying it's like just constant but if someone does something dodgy, they get honked. Horniest places in Africa and it's just maximum horniness on the horn of Africa. Right. American pizza, ooh. So the red area is great pizza. This is pretty good. Basically everything else is bad pizza. Are you American or have you visited? Let me know what you think Map of Europe, but with Okay. (laughing) This might win for best dumb map so far. Oh my god. &quot;So happy with my new tattoo.&quot; The world is yours. Oh, I don't like that. Why have they gone so What's the bottom bit as well? It just looks like grass from here, but I think it's like a or something. Somebody- (laughing) Somebody said Montana looks and I can't unsee it. Oh my God. Brazil is seen by Americans: the Amazon and Rio de Janeiro. I'm not gonna lie, I kind of don't know how to describe it better myself. I need to educate myself there. &quot;Someone said America is too big for rail. I really don't think this Rail works in a handful of places, but only over short distances.&quot; So they've shown China's and plonked China over the top of the US to prove that that is absolute bull crap. Right, the green is they haven't The yellow is they've And the red is they have Netherlands? &quot;John De Witt, the Prime Minister, was unflavored by the Dutch and after resigning from he was killed and eaten with his brother.&quot; Right, it was the 1600's to be fair, but still not great. You can cross the border of with one straight line. Oh, that's epic. Could that be a Guinness World Record? Most times crossing a border in like 60 minutes or something? I can't wait for when I can visit these kind of weird country borders. (laughing) &quot;Only using food So they've used a Dorito to point to Glasgow on a map. (laughing) That one was pretty good to be fair. Expectation: phwoar, Sweden, Reality: all shrivelled up at the equator. That's so sad. (laughing) Countries with an AK-47 on their flag and it is literally just Mozambique. It's definitely a statement. Cyprus is just a more Yeah, I've thought this before. They have pretty big similarities, in terms of their outlines. And that's why on that that they'd been swapped on the flag and then everybody made fun of me. North America, America, South America. No, no, no, no. Oh this is cute, use of the word 'dang' So in the south everybody's Due to its unique shape, is actually located in You know what, that is Croatia really is a I never get over the coast thing. A bird's eye view of earth. But it's actually just a bird that looks a bit like the earth. That bird is amazing. Where's that bird? I want to do this to it. Hawaiian language distribution Nowhere but Hawaii. (laughing) This is actually written Does their state flag have toes? Yes, quite a few. Yes, but they're animal toes. Also, even more, they are blocks by shoes. Ah, damn shoes. And no. That's a lot of toes. Europe if every country disappeared. I don't even recognise any of that. Where is anything? Is this Spain? No, it- (laughing) It can't be. Tell me what country you are from using two words. &quot;From Poland.&quot; (laughing) Countries that Bill Gates is richer than are marked with a picture That is mental, isn't it? That's proper crazy. At least Bill Gates is that seems to do good stuff overall. Sharks versus humans, This I've known about, So this was just 2014. Sharks killed by humans: Whereas humans killed by So some areas of the but most of the sharks are just killed because of people fishing. Sharks and dolphins and whales just end up getting caught up It's really, really sad. They're such epic creatures that have been on the world Countries that use bidets. Fair enough, I did not in South America. Dick, countries starting with Yep, can confirm that is correct. And on that note, we'll end off the video. Thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe so I than the population of See you later.