- This is a mousetrap car. (funky music) They're coming for physics classes, just like or building toothpick bridges. The goal is to build a car or goes the fastest, but in provided to move the car is So today I'm gonna show by building some cars with And then we're gonna go to the see all these principles in action. And, don't leave. I know that 99.7% of you have of these, but I will break I know this car will go and then I'll prove it and then we'll discuss why you see these DVD wheels so often. But do they work and why wheels that look like this? But before we fly all meet the world record holder, for the one overarching behind the mousetrap car. It's called mechanical advantage. And to do that, I'm gonna I'm gonna bet you guys I could using just my pinkies. If I can't do it, can but if I can you, guys All right, deal? - I said nothing else but your pinkies. - I am just using my pinkies. - No, just your pinkies. - That's what I'm doing. This is really good you guys. Thank you. If you're willing to you're able to reduce the amount of force by a proportional amount. I can't lift 500 pounds but I could lift 10 pounds 50 times. A mechanical advantage is the ratio of the output force over the input force. So in this case it's 50. That means my hand had to than just lifting the car in one shot but the weight was 50 times less so it was totally worth it. This principle of mechanical Let's take a look at a few examples. If I have four pulleys, that down four times further But in exchange, it So this has a mechanical For the ramp, you look at the ratio of the length to the height. Your mechanical advantage That means I have to but the brick should feel up the ramp versus just And sure enough, if you this is exactly what you see. If you think about it a screw is just a ramp So here you look at this as traveled around the thread and between the threads to get a And as you know, if you really use a ratchet wrench. Now the distance your hand travels for one full rotation is 300 the screw moves vertically The total mechanical advantage is 300. It's like a really long short ramp. So if this scale reads six pounds the actual clamping force or nearly a ton. And with wheels and axles, Since this wheel diameter as you could probably guess by now this weight weighs twice as much. So now we're balanced with a And you'll also notice if I move this the lesser weight travels twice as far. And finally we have levers which is where we started Here, if you compare the ratio of the distances from the pivot point we have a mechanical of course means I have to move But it's super easy because it's one fourth And in all of these examples, around us, you trade lower This is how humans built amazing things before all these fancy machines human muscles are totally as you're willing to spend to do the task. And so this principle mechanical and over again with the It works both ways. In other words, I don't of the spring acting over this on the wheels or they would spin out. That would be a very inefficient transfer of energy from the spring. So we use mechanical advantage and make the main lever than the spring lever arm. And then the wheel than the wheel axle. So then if we multiply them our total mechanical That means the force is on the output at the wheels to the floor versus right here on It also means we'll than the distance this spring arm rotates. Alright, so that's enough let's go to Texas and meet up with my buddy Al to build some race cars. (upbeat music) - [Man] U.S.A. (upbeat music) - [Mark] Not only is he the mousetrap car world record holder but he also kind of and he was Texas high school And since my dream job from working as an engineer go teach high school physics somewhere, I made him show me all his cool demos. - I came up with this idea that time I have literally of mousetrap cars myself. I've seen every possible you could ever come up with. - And there's lots of different variations for rules for a mousetrap car race. Let's talk about how to build the best For our testing, we started The only difference was the So one was short, one was And I've calculated each of which you can see written here. And given what we know what do you think is about to happen? - Ready? As you might've guessed, takes a strong early lead. This makes sense because it advantage, therefore the and ground meet. The downside is that it's a and long lever arm cars pass up all its energy. In the end, this is how far they each arm car going the slowest, to 30 feet. This brings up the first car, to win you want the over the longest possible distance. In other words, the smallest fraction for mechanical advantage possible. You want your car to be barely as little energy as possible. You can think of the as this amount of water this cup represents the onto your car to move it forward. If you just quickly a ton spills and splashes out, from extra heat generated or which is proportional to But if you do it slowly and more controlled, much more energy goes to actually moving your car forward. The next thing we tested was on all three of the cars This made a huge difference and now they went this far, again the longest lever arm car won because it was the slowest. But this shows the importance It's definitely your biggest enemy with these cars and the You have the rolling friction between the wheels and the ground and then the biggie is between This is why we put the To take our testing a step further we took the long lever arm car and added ball bearings and that set a new So if you only have one and you wanna have a good showing you can use a long lever with the CD wheels to give of about one over 360 and then use ball bearings at the axles or just apply some graphite and Next, we figured if long lever and therefore further, we should But it only made it to here which was worse than even The problem was that it because we had to make it really big which means it's more heavy, You know this already intuitively because it's harder to push a heavy object on a table than a light object because there's more So principle three is I love this example though because it shows you need If you take any one of them too far than in and start penalizing you. It's an optimization makes the mousetrap racers That's also why testing is so important. So tweaking and testing different things like Al and I did is critical for honing in on the sweet Next, we tried this big wheel design which is a popular approach. The strategy here is the than the wheel axle. So when you combine it with the lever arm you get a built-in mechanical and that's the equivalent and a half feet long, but that seems like a good deal and as such it was our best car yet and The downside is that it takes energy to get a It's called rotational inertia. Here's the demo I built to These two wheels are identical except this one has the at the outer edge of the This means it has a So when we spin them both identically the one on the right and will reach a higher max speed but the one on the left By having bigger heavy wheels, as a temporary storage for your energy and then you give it back The problem with this is you lose some. Going back to the cups, a little splashes out each time you pour it, no So instead of pouring your and then eventually getting it's better just to have and just have one slow pour directly into the final cup of Additionally, big wheels like So principle four is to This is also why you see people do this to their wheels sometimes. It's an effort to keep the wheels large in diameter to get that but to make them weigh less to rotational inertia. So the final test we ran which traveled an astounding 600 feet. When he set the record, like using jewelers bearings on the axles but the real secret is this If we look at the ratios and calculate the mechanical advantage from the lever, to the we're looking at one over 4,608. It's the equivalent of a 16 four and a half feet in diameter, of the extra weight or this thing barely crawls along. It's hard to even see the as this back wheel spins. It's really hard to And now we'll quickly go since most of the same principles apply. The biggest difference access all the energy from the spring in a short burst right at the beginning because the finish line So it doesn't make sense mechanical advantage like the pulley car. Here we want it much of the spring itself, which would be mechanical advantage one. Problem is if we did that, So you basically want to your mechanical advantage by and thicker with tape until Slipping is bad of course because that's wasted energy without actually moving your car forward. It's helpful to zoom on your phone to see if your This means having good traction on your rear wheels is important because it means you before you start to slip. These squishy foam wheels work great and just like with the by using bearings or graphite As will making it lightweight because Newton's second law teaches us that heavier things are Just like you throw a baseball further than a heavy bowling ball and smaller diameter wheels not only help by keeping your mechanical but you don't have time to give energy to these big wheels and then You want all that spring into making your car go forward. Okay, so those are the basic principles. Before we head to the West Coast I'll just mention I put a list of 10 practical quick build For example, you should soak your bearings in WD 40 to remove all the grease. The grease is useful if the bearings are actually but since he's cars weigh next to nothing, it's only gonna slow you down. I should also mention that my buddy Al has an amazing website called docfizzix.com where you can buy all the parts and come up with your own unique design. I'll also put that link below. Here we go. (upbeat music) - [Man] U.S.A. (upbeat music) - For this competition the objective was to and then return back and stop as close to the exact same spot you started in the least amount of time. Those moves may seem complicated but you can switch from forward to reverse by simply switching the direction you wrap up your axle halfway at a certain point by using a So given the rules your design choices should About half the designs relied and use CD wheels, which because you're not looking for distance. They have more rotational The winning team car which I won't show here because really focused on precision. They used ball bearings, small foam wheels and they made their car It weighs more than balls of wood so it did cost more energy to of energy in the spring So it was worth the trade off for the extra rigidity They also told me they tested and tweaked their design for six months. It was awesome to hang out and see all the various design approaches. Hopefully you learned enough by now to give you a solid foundation for your own unique design like crazy and then Thanks for watching. (upbeat music)