- There was a time when hydrogen was presented as the future These vehicles promised things faster refueling and eco-friendly energy. George W. Bush, remember him, liked hydrogen fuel cells so much that he offered $1.3 billion in funding to get these cars on the road. This all sounds fantastic. So why aren't we all hydrogen horseless carriages? The technology had plenty that appeal to consumers, but nobody really seems to Why did the hydrogen after all the hype that Is it actually better for the And who or what killed the hydrogen car? (upbeat music) Big thanks to Kove for This is the Kove split speaker. Sorry that's loud, really loud. We use the Kove split It's water resistant has its got a 30 foot range. This thing's got seven hours of playtime making it perfect when you're on the go, working in the garage or just want a break from The Kove split speaker surround sound effect. But what really makes Now that 360 degree effect is an optimal left and right stereo sound. And with Kove giving you this puppy is one of the most unique and affordable speakers I've ever seen. So hurry up, visit koveaudio.com/donut68 and use code donut six eight Now let's get back to Wheelhouse. Seriously, these things are sick. In 1966, we got things the Lamborghini Mira and the Pontiac GTO, but what never made it into was the world's first Hydrogen vehicles have been but have recently been advertised as the future for passenger vehicles and civilian transportation. Hydrogen fuel cells run off that has a refill time equivalent and brags about things like zero emissions with literal water coming This sounds great, especially which can sometimes take run Hydrogen seems great in Well, there are a few reasons why hydrogen cars lost it all boils down to five factors, price, convenience, performance, the environment, and competition Buying a car's One of the someone can make next to a house. And the biggest determining factor when it comes to buying a There are three hydrogen available on the market right now. The Toyota Mirai the Hyundai The 2021 Toyota Mirai is starting at $50,000. But if you play your cards right with the right incentives and financing you can pick a brand new one for just shy of 18 grand, The sticker price seems but how much does it cost to refuel? The average price for $16.50 per kilogram yes, kilogram. Hydrogen is measured by weight, much different to how which is by volume. Each hydrogen fuel cell five to six kilograms of hydrogen, traveling up to 400 miles on one fill up. So even though six kilograms of hydrogen can make a car move up to 400 miles, the cost of a tank is over considering the more like hybrids, but we'll There are only 45 hydrogen in the United States. And similar to how buyers because of the price tag, companies are afraid of The cost to construct can amount to around $2 than your average gas station To make matters worse most With such a small customer base, it's hard for companies to towards hydrogen stations with no promise of return There is some good news and that comes through called manufacturer fuel incentives. Companies like Toyota for the time being, is pretty expensive and hope to Lure in $15,000 credit towards fuel costs. I think that's sick as hell, This fuel credit is a nice benefit to anyone buying a hydrogen that you need to spend that $15,000 on fuel within the first Once that runs out customers have to pay with a very limited selection There is one more glimmer of hope though for hydrogen car believers. California government subsidies. These subsidies offer millions of dollars towards the construction of and seek to have over a hundred This is still significantly less than the tens of thousands of gas stations and EV charging stations So only time will tell become a prevalent form of refilling. But it's a step in the right direction. For now with the average and the exorbitant construction costs for refilling stations, things aren't looking very The hydrogen fuel cell market relies on subsidies and incentives to But even with help from the consumers just aren't as much as gas or electric. Why is this? Well, let's talk about We talked earlier about how there are only 45 hydrogen refueling stations in the US, mostly in California. For some perspective, there are 16 red lobster for every one hydrogen That's a 16 to one With only 45 stations across the US, hydrogen car buyers are forced within the vicinity of these stations. So if you live outside of some you might have some The painful lack of convenience from the shy number of stations is very dissuading to consumers. But the good news is you can leave LA and go on that boy's trip to Vegas. But if you've taken your hydrogen car, you might end up stranded there. I guess, with a hydrogen vehicle, whatever happens in Vegas, Infrastructure offers convenience and without the adequate infrastructure hydrogen cars are a huge hassle. So to visit my parents up in Atascadero what I would have to do, I would have to leave LA stop in Santa Barbara to and then limit my driving And then refill as I'm Santa Barbara which would I would not feel great about that. So does the hydrogen car offer anything that can make up for the Let's talk about what we really care about here at Donut all right? Performance. Sure hydrogen and a pain to refuel. But if they're faster then maybe they might be Well, maybe, but that doesn't matter because most commercial vehicles are far from performance vehicles. The 2021 Toyota Mirai goes from zero to 60 in 9.1 seconds and reaches of a hundred six miles per hour. It's not awful, but compare the Tesla model three which It's a bit of a different story. So is there a hydrogen with established performance cars? The answer is yes. Take a look at the hydrogen which boasts a range of a thousand miles, a thousand horsepower and claims to go from reaching a top speed of 220, and even better the car looks like the illegitimate child of a This thing is super So where could I buy one? Well, unfortunately for customers, the car it's not available And when it is, it's safe to say that the price will be extremely high. You're definitely not gonna in your Toyota Mirai anytime soon, but clearly hydrogen technology is capable of creating speed, it's just much more expensive and requires more fuel cell comparable to a regular sports car. Hydrogen cars are marketed as green easy, energy efficient vehicles, This makes sense after all So unfortunately, most manufacturers aren't building these But who knows no car's truly off limits for a dedicated tuner. So maybe we'll see a few Mirais If companies are gonna market You would assume they're but I'm not so sure as green Why is this? Hydrogen cars are heralded spitting out water rather than pollutants. How does the car produce only water? Look, I spent a lot of time in college playing Rocket League and watching movies. So I don't feel very Here's Jerry (upbeat music) - Compressed hydrogen runs down a pipe to a positive terminal in the fuel cell. Then oxygen from the air to the negative terminal. The positive terminal, it's as a catalyst that helps speed When hydrogen atoms reached the catalyst they split up into hydrogen ions which are protons and electrons. And hydrogen ions they without their electrons. Since hydrogen only has one a hydrogen ion is literally just a proton. The positively charged protons are attracted to the negative running through the electrolyte. Only protons have the ability to pass through the electrolyte since it's a special polymer. The free electrons now they flow through the outer As they do so they which drives the car's wheels eventually arriving at And at that negative terminal, recombine with oxygen from the air in a chemical reaction creating H2O or what I like to call water. This is the water that comes You can drink that water if - So it's safe to assume that these cars are good I mean, all they use is hydrogen for fuel and it's shooting out water. So are hydrogen cars actually than gas cars? Well, let's look at how Hydrogen does not exist in a pure state and must be separated from other molecules in a process called electrolysis. This process uses a lot of power. In order for a hydrogen fuel cell to work, it uses electricity to create hydrogen at the production plant, back into electricity to This is called the Let's take a hundred Watts of energy. To create hydrogen we must pass it through water via electrolysis. This is only 75% energy efficient. Now the hydrogen must and transported to the station. Once it's pumped into the car, it must be turned back into electricity. This is only 60% efficient. The energy then must power the motor but this is only 95% efficient, because it gives off energy such as heat. Put this all together, and are actually used to run the car. So fuel cells are only 38% efficient. That's not great, but it could be worse. How does it compare to Combustion engines are letting off enough heat that leaves them with only So hydrogen is decently better But what about electric vehicles? Since electric vehicles use without having to they make about 80% efficiency. This is twice as efficient making hydrogen cars inefficient when compared to their electric cousins. So what does this mean Well, hydrogen cars are about half as efficient as an electric vehicle meaning they required twice This energy is taken from nuclear power plants and windmills. No car is completely green, but hydrogen is a than EV vehicles, but still more efficient than a gas powered cars, If hydrogen is to succeed it money and government And it will take years to for these vehicles. If all this happens, hydrogen cars may have a chance at securing a spot in the automotive industry, but for now something else hype and funding, reducing the What is this? Well, I actually already told you. If anything can be blamed for the death of the Companies like Tesla came onto hydrogen fuel cells had some interest, but with the success came disinterest in hydrogen. The market lean towards electric cars and lithium battery technology beyond hydrogen vehicles. EVs took the spotlight and went into developing and Hydrogen on the other It's kinda like when and it was super mind blowing but then the PS two, and X-Box with even better graphics. There simply just wasn't enough room for hydrogen fuel cells to succeed. Hydrogen cars tried to fix didn't really need to be solved. And it didn't even succeed in the first place. Hydrogen cars can run exceptionally long distance on hydrogen. But the factors like price, performance and convenience put the nail in the coffin for hydrogen fuel cell cars. Now you might be thinking, hey the technology is super impressive. So if it's not gonna work where can we apply it? Well, surprisingly enough, hydrogen fuel cells are being used for many other things Many warehouses, such as Amazon use hydrogen powered forklifts to Very smart when you're indoors. Companies are looking and even power sources for cities and hydrogen presents for auxiliary power in rural areas. NASA uses hydrogen fuel as a source of electricity, are looking to create There is a use for it, it's just that the car space Hydrogen cars were but they weren't, and it makes sense why. Maybe one day despite some technological breakthrough will occur and hydrogen cars will rule the road. But for now though, hydrogen cars remain an with a somewhat bleak future and gas and electric cars will continue to steal the hearts of consumers. Just make that Marai do zero and we're good. - Hey guys what's up? I got some big news and it's right here on my head. Introducing the first only available at donutmedia.com. It comes in two awesome colors. Vibrant orange, for those who and Navy blue, for those who And the best thing about a it can help highlight your personality. Whether you're intimidating at first, but once we get to know you, Or if you're someone that your friends never and you make them listen Just like sort of an old An actor slash writer slash I own an acoustic guitar. The Donut beanie is the or any type of person gets - Hey, thanks for watching Wheelhouse. Pretty interesting stuff if you ask me. I think that there's a future for hydrogen just not necessarily in If you saw that other and you wanna check out I'll leave a bumper to bumper right here. We mentioned the Prius a little bit, and hey if you're feeling nostalgic, there's a up to speed on Prius right here. Follow Donut on all Follow me @nolanjsykes be kind, take care of each other. See you later.