When the Prequel Trilogy was first released, its most controversial elements, with many depiction of Anakin with the Original Trilogy's opinion of Prequel Anakin has softened, many so much so that they consider the hero of the be separate personalities. But as dissimilar Vader were indeed the same person. The character at once a valiant hero and a heartless any character archetype. Today, in our first we'll be giving Anakin's character the answer to two deceptively simple questions: who Before we begin, we've got a quick reading we'll be quoting a lot from Matthew Stover's be referring to as the Novelization hereafter. dollars to spare, please go buy the novelization how fantastic it is. It's better than the film - will give you a new perspective on Star Wars With that out of the way, let's begin. There were many ways to describe Anakin Skywalker. but deeply compassionate, and flippant but deeply we're going to start with how the galactic Fear. It was the HoloNet News that assigned him fairly surface-level summation of Anakin's bravery Anakin Skywalker was the greatest of the Jedi. He armies singlehandedly, a fighter pilot with an and a commander whose battle strategies strode looked at what Anakin Skywalker did and could Of course, in those days, Anakin was also seen as and its professed values. Those who knew him hellbent on saving the day whenever he could. a terrifying presence that few dared defy. He an utterly ruthless being who cared Few would guess that he had once been But Skywalker's heroism and Vader's ruthlessness as different personalities were, in reality, a collection of values, attitudes, and from childhood to death. The development of The fact that Anakin Skywalker started life during discussions about his personality. Anakin was treated as property, as subhuman, by everyone except his mother and a handful He was owned first by the ruthless Gardulla abuse under both masters. That sort of thing years had profound influences on his personality, By the Battle of Coruscant, Anakin was and in the films, it might even seem like he's quick line from the Novelization, which trauma from his past as a weapon against "When Count Dooku flies at him, blade flashing, Watto's fist cracks out from Anakin's childhood Anakin left Tatooine with plenty of scars, his experiences there had a profound As a slave, Anakin wasn't seen as a person, It didn't help that, upon joining the Jedi, Anakin seen as the Chosen One. Suddenly, he found himself of prophecy. Now, Anakin was given respect - but trust him. Some of those who believed he was the His own master, Obi-Wan Kenobi, was in his ability to train Anakin, which Anakin This gave Anakin some serious self-esteem issues. abilities; he was powerful and he knew it. But and how he believed others felt about him himself. This was one of the reasons he grew so Chancellor showered him with positive In addition, slavery left Anakin with a pivotal Anakin and his mother stuck together during families weren't so lucky. The children of slaves or the other way around. Anakin's childhood on threat that Watto would sell his mother, something his profits were on the decline. As a slave, whom he grew fiercely attached to. The thought Of course, Anakin ended up leaving his mother That act haunted him for the next decade, so the Jedi Temple, he avoided making friends, not that the next time he saw his mother, she died by that point, a defining part of to lose the people he cared about. All of this brought a real intensity to Anakin's Anakin had serious attachment issues. he got really protective of them, as much as Anakin were close with were all he really They were also the source of his self-worth. Padme, and Palpatine. Beyond the small circle nothing else mattered. Nothing else even "Yoda and Mace exchanged glances, both remembering the times Anakin had violated orders the lives of thousands, the control of More than once, in fact, to save Obi-Wan. 'I think,' Obi-Wan said carefully, mean much to him. He's loyal to people, not to He will stop at nothing to save me, for example, Mace and Yoda gazed at him steadily, 'Because,' he admitted reluctantly, 'he Anakin's worldview was extremely simplistic. would do anything to protect them. That he theoretically believed in things like of concepts didn't really register with him. To were the people he cared about being treated as unequivocally evil, which was an incredibly there was only good and evil, nothing in between. those he saw as the enemy. Anything that driving him to commit acts of brutality unbecoming or torture anyone who threatened his friends; to everything he did to them. This aspect of his Sand People, to torture Poggle the Lesser and ultimately to butcher younglings in Jedi Temple. As is usually the case, the towards his enemies stemmed from "HoloNet features call him the Hero With No Fear. Fear lives inside him anyway, chewing Anakin sometimes thinks of the dread that eats tell each other of the dragons that live inside supposed to live inside the fusion furnaces that But Anakin's fear is another kind Not long after he became Obi-Wan's a minor mission had brought them to a dead star had long ago turned to a frigid dwarf of even remember what the mission might have It had scared him. 'Stars can die-?' 'It is the way of the universe, which the will of the Force,' Obi-Wan had even stars burn out. This is why Jedi That is the kind of fear that lives inside It is an ancient, cold dead voice within The dragon reminds him, every night, that someday he will lose Obi-Wan. He All things die, Anakin Anakin was never really afraid for his own life, Padme, Palpatine, Ahsoka, Rex, and even R2 attachments to them for his sense of self, To lose any of them would be to lose a part himself so hard, to endlessly yearn to be the please the people he cared about, and part was also because he wanted to be able to save he became determined to never lose anyone "That's what makes him a real hero. not without fear, but stronger than fear. He looks the dragon in the eye If anyone can save Palpatine, Anakin and he's still getting better. But locked the dragon that is his fear Because his real fear, in a is that being the best will As Yoda predicted it would, Anakin's fear of to suffering. What Anakin feared was inevitable, himself to accept that. He could never come to This, as we all know, let him down the path to the forbade emotional attachments, why they recruited temple. It was because attachments could lead Anakin is the perfect example of this. Consider obviously, and he was extremely attached to When he began having visions of Padme's impending to sleep and became hellbent on finding a way that Padme didn't share his concerns at all. She but she was perfectly willing to acceptance, however, did nothing to affect afraid of losing her for her sake, but for It's a common misconception that In Attack of the Clones, Anakin There is, of course, a difference between love would use it, "attachment" is just a synonym we might deem any sort of shared love an For the Jedi, the difference between love selfishness. Love was pure and accepted whereas attachment usually involved a refusal attachments led people to prioritize their For normal people, emotional attachments destructive, though obviously any But Jedi weren't normal people. They were to maintain constant vigilance against the Dark because they were the easiest path to the Dark it's easy to let others suffer to save the people the best possible example of why this policy &quot;Anakin has no interest in serene bring. Not here. Not now. Not with at stake. It's just the opposite - he seizes He will land this ship. He will save his friends. Between his will and the Will of In case you were wondering, this was was the real dichotomy between Light and Dark - accepting whatever was best for the universe, own selfish desires. Anakin did this a fair bit, Truth be told, Anakin was never really cut a therapist after the Battle of Naboo, not and while Anakin Skywalker walked the path of a Padawan, Anakin did his best to stick as we mentioned earlier, for the early years of in part for this reason. But attachment was hard-baked into his psychology. He ended up he remained attached to his mother and Padme, even When heand Padme reunited during the events be a good Jedi fell apart. After the outbreak everything spiraled out of control. He gave and in doing so, he fed the dragon in his heart, his attachments grew, the more he feared for the the more attached he grew. Over the course of started to unravel him. He drew increasingly The Dark Side was addictive. It brought instant the user wanting more. For Anakin, the Dark Side Light Side meant simply accepting their deaths. it's impermanent. You can save someone's life a Because of this, it wasn't enough for Anakin to he would have to do it again and again. After he began craving more power so that This was how the path to The details differed, but the pattern was the Light Side and charge down an empty road to hell Truth be told, Anakin could have won the meant acceptance. At the end of the day, lose everyone. If he accepted that, if but it would have ultimately been the better In the moment, it would have destroyed Anakin could have recovered from. Sometimes, when break it again and set it correctly. Unfortunately for Anakin, Yoda wasn't the only envisioning Padme's death. Palpatine did as well, the Dark Side. Palpatine offered an easier way, to keep Padme alive forever. In other words, believed. By that point, Anakin had all but fallen Padme and win his battle with fear, whatever the Jedi wasn't a choice at all. Once his shock and Jedi were gone, it was a simple matter for him that name, that new identity, was a promise of "The Sith Lord who once had been a Jedi drawing himself up to his full height, but nor upon the planet-city beyond, nor out He instead turned his gaze inward: he unlocked the regard with new eyes the cold freezing dread of I am Darth Vader, he said within himself. The dragon tried again to whisper of failure, and weakness, and inevitable death, but crushed away its voice; it tried to but the Sith Lord laid his other hand upon it and I am Darth Vader, he repeated as he ground the as he watched the dragon's dust and ashes scatter You are nothing at all. He had become, finally, what they all called him. The Hero With No Fear." Of course, that wasn't true, Furthermore, becoming Vader meant destroying his was easy for Vader to abandon the Jedi ways, and Jedi Order. He didn't have attachments to most of he quickly started to see the Jedi as an they had tried to assassinate him, after all. From Vader's perspective, the Jedi sought to deny they became Vader's enemies, and because they full force of Vader's anger and hate. It didn't for the past thirteen years, nor did it matter they had become evil, a threat to the people The slaughter of the younglings is something a Anakin, but it was something he was always capable any one member deserved death, period. This People on Tatooine, and this logic drove his either you were with him or against him. As but it was one that Anakin had held this absolutist mentality drove him rapidly the Jedi, he slaughtered the Separatists, Vader believed that the Dark Side would but he quickly found that it instead destroyed manipulated him into believing that Obi-Wan convinced that Padme was working with Obi-Wan, By the time he realized that Palpatine had Vader had destroyed all his relationships In doing so, he had destroyed himself. By the time To pull one last passage from the Novelization: "'Padme? Are you here? Are you all right?' I'm very sorry, Lord Vader. I'm afraid she This burns hotter than the lava had. 'No... no, it is not possible!' You loved her. You will always love Never. But you remember all of it. Vader forth from your heart to slay. You remember furnace of Vader's fury, and the black hatred of And there is one blazing moment in which you That there was no Vader. That there That it was all you. Is you. Only you. You did it. You killed her. You killed her because, finally, when you could with her, when you could have been thinking It is in this blazing moment that of the dark side, the final cruelty of the Sith- Because now your self is all you will ever have. And you rage and scream and reach through the but the power you can touch is world-destroying fury it is only droids and the table on which you were strapped shatters, In the end, you do not even want to. In the end, the shadow is all you have left. Because the shadow understands you, the shadow And within your furnace heart, This was the inevitable end of a fall to the of attachment, looking for power to save the ones drove all their loved ones away, leaving the more power. For Darth Vader, his fall to the everything he'd been. He had done it all to fear and hatred of his enemies grew, he killed and sooner or later, it destroyed all the Anakin saw becoming Darth Vader as a way could slay the dead-star dragon. In reality, taking away everyone Anakin cared about. that it was all his fault, that he had never The name was different, but the person This leads us back to something we mentioned in Vader, or the lack thereof. The only difference was Anakin with no one left to care about, his enemies. As we've said before, Anakin's expansion of the pool of beings he considered With that said, Vader maintained otherwise. He with it, he maintained that he was a different Of course, as the earlier Novelization passage was an excuse he wanted to believe. It Vader, was a monster that had killed the he'd always been that monster and that As a Sith Lord, Vader was full of hate. He hated and he hated anyone opposed the Empire, deeming The politics of it never really mattered a vague sense of justice. By that point, of no longer about protecting the ones he loved, Rather, "justice" to Vader meant Truthfully, that was always part More than any of his enemies, While he would never admit it, he knew deep down fault. He understood how his choices led him to This, not his barbequing on Mustafar, was what the Clone Wars. For a Sith, anger and hatred into destroying all his relationships Sidious hoped Vader would become the most powerful hating other people is conducive to the Dark Side, then it diminishes your capacity for selfishness, Vader was obviously still a Darksider, During the reign of the Empire, Vader was mostly Anakin wasn't just extremely attached to his Without anyone to care about, Vader lost most of sought greater power, but just as he had never that strong of a Sith, either. Unlike his master, nor did he take pleasure in cruelty. Vader sought his enemies, the Emperor most of all. If he had bereft of motivation. Darth Vader was a shell Vader was aware of the miserable nature of his to change it or atone for his sins. This was The Jedi of his time believed that Sith Lords and Vader reasoned that, since he couldn't even atone and be forgiven by others. As he saw it, the Sith. He kept going not because he wanted This, alongside Vader's hatred of his saw himself as a monster and believed he acted like one. He saw himself as Darth Vader, even though he knew full well that he was trying to become a better person because, in capable of. His excuses became a delusion, Then Luke came along. At first, Vader only saw Emperor and take revenge on all his enemies. but Luke, of course, refused. To Vader's the Jedi. However, Vader kept trying to turn but because Luke was his son - or Luke, to Vader, was a part of Padme, in a sense, After his first encounter with Luke, he became he didn't really understand why. That was why Side - he believed it was the only way he could believed Sidious was pretty much unstoppable. was far beyond Vader's. Destiny was on the to move against him, even when Luke offered During the Battle of Endor, Vader kept to be taken aback as Luke tried to redeem him Luke was adamant that there was still good in Luke also rejected the Dark Side. Even after his Luke continued to defy Sidious, affirming It's important to note here that this ran alone had a massive impact on Vader. and believed destiny was set in stone. It was his and Luke's destiny to follow in his father's proving it wasn't set in stone. If Luke then so could Vader. But it was also immensely loyalties to the Jedi but affirmed that Vader Vader had done, despite threatening Luke's That was all Vader needed to cast aside the he accepted what he had realized decades ago - As much as he had been Vader, he had and a Jedi. And if Luke could choose to be a Jedi like his father, then his father Darth Vader was never truly loyal to the he was loyal to people, not principles. Aboard his son in spite of how far he'd fallen, and As much as he had been willing to abandon the Jedi the Sith for the sake of Luke, and his own life when Anakin slew Sidious, it truly was for Luke's selflessness, and in that moment, he returned Luke Skywalker was the hero we'd all like to see and saves the day. But more often than not, to his battles with fear, to his cataclysmic in Star Wars. Most importantly, though, he's no matter how badly you fail, your future set But what do you think? What are your thoughts on of the Sith novelization, and feel free to