So, I have a Twitter account, called "thomas things they think I should make videos about. Generally speaking, I don't normally make But, someone called Max sent me a message most interesting messages I've ever received. He discovered an old pop song that sounds famous themes. So, today I'm gonna tell you the story Max One day, he was watching videos of old game Actually to be specific, the show was Name The premise is simple: there are two contestants, they hear short clips of a song, or a few And their job is to Name That Tune. See what they did there? So, Max was watching this old episode from The two contestants are Susan - a teacher, Now, Jack wins the first round, Susan wins Now, here's where Max noticed something In this next round, Jack is about to be played to name what that song is. And, just listen. "Name that tune!" "Here are your four notes." *musical notes* "Goodnight Ladies!" "No, I'm sorry, it's Green Green!" Green Green? That sounds a heck of a lot more like a well As both Alex and I immediately noticed, it Theme from Super World on the SNES. So, I'll do a proper comparison between how similar they really are! But first, let me go back to Max's message. He says: to find literally anyone acknowledging that from Super Mario World, but it seems nobody I mean there's no way that's a coincidence, If anyone can uncover definitive proof that it's you!" Thank you for the vote of confidence! So, these two songs certainly sound similar, Koji Kondo based his song on this old pop Green Green is a song from 1963, by a group probably never heard of. And this song, well it was a hit in its time, on Wikipedia. Surely it's impossible that Koji Kondo could Well to start with, there's definitely precedent pop songs. I've got a whole video on this, but part really similar to the song April by the rock the time. [...] Or, how about the main theme from Super [...] That sounds notably similar to the fusion [...] Interestingly Koji Kondo in his own Mario might show some influence from the Japanese In other words, this inspiration he took wasn't He talked about it publicly! But what about Super Mario World's Overworld Instead of a Japanese fusion song inspiring been an old American pop song influencing That just seems impossible. Except, it turns out... it's not! So, we need to take a quick diversion to 1960s Because THIS is the missing link, the decade opposite parts of the globe. A fairly well known Japanese children's song Green Green, and decided to translate At the time, Kataoka worked for a TV programme which was watched by millions of Japanese It played songs for people to listen to, essentially... And, his Japanese translation of Green Green led to it becoming an instant hit across the Sadly there's no surviving footage of the as far as I can tell there's no footage But here's the thing: Hikaru Kataoka's Japanese of the original song. They're actually completely original, and The first 3 verses start off ordinarily enough, world. But as the song goes on, the father suddenly "That morning, Papa left on a journey far I knew that [...] he'd never come back again" What happened to the father is never explicitly the answer to be war. Kataoka experienced war firsthand, and the in full swing. &quot;At that time, there were many children in [...] Children of elementary school age are Now you might believe this serious subject finding success, but that was not the case Green Green became a much bigger hit in Japan In fact, it became ingrained in the country's Here's just one simple example: Green Green, page. But, it DOES have a Japanese Wikipedia page. And the song's not even from Japan! Now, Green Green has endured the test of time Here it is performed by one of Japan's biggest [...] Right, so finally back to Mario then. Koji Kondo was born in 1961. By the time he was 10 years old, Green Green it again and again and again growing up. When he came to write the music for Super been in his brain somewhere or other. And subconsciously, I think that it worked up writing. In an interview, Koji Kondo said this: "Compared so I aim for music that is happy, rhythmical, And there's no melodies more memorable than So, let's do one last big comparison between How closely do they really match up? First, here's Green Green. [...] And then, here's Super Mario World's [...] They certainly sound very similar indeed. If we quickly pop over to the piano, the first - note for note - and most of the other notes Plus, the chord sequence, while not particularly song. So, I don't think that Koji Kondo went out Green. But I do think that he was heavily inspired of that fact. So, I relayed all this information back to very nice, and quite pleased, I think, that To be honest, I was surprised as well!. Oh, and I told him I was gonna make this into Maybe he's watching this right now. Hi Max! And for all the people that are not Max, thank There's another video like this coming next if you wanna see it as soon as I've finished I'm looking forward to seeing you then. Not literally. I do not have access to your webcam. Yet.