Welcome to my channel. Today I will tell you about the tricks you can do to revive the orchids that have faded and turned yellow in the summer . There are some maintenance we need to pay attention to, especially in the autumn so that orchids can produce more than one leaf and flower . The orchid you see in my hand has produced two keikis. Both of them are keikis coming out of the branch. In order for orchids to produce healthy offspring and leaves, their roots must be healthy. In other words, they must be active, green and alive. We will now prepare natural fertilizer with you. This liquid fertilizer will revitalize the orchids. I will use rice for fertilizer. The best liquid plant nutrient fertilizer you can use in rice orchid care. I will give you a fertilizer recipe that you can use for months while using rice . For this, I put 2 tablespoons of rice into a food processor. and then I'll close the lid and pulverize this. I brought the rice in powder form. Now I will turn it into liquid fertilizer to use on orchids . For this, I add 2 tablespoons of rice powder . You can increase or decrease this according to the number of flowers in the house. I put boiling water on it. I added 500 ml of boiling water in total . I mix it up a bit like this. I will wait for this fertilizer to cool. My water is cold enough. I add purification water on it and make it to 1 liter in total . I added 500 ml of rice water and 500 ml of purification water. I'm mixing it up a bit . We must strain it because it contains pulp. After straining it, it has a pulp like this. And I wash my plate again and put rice water into the same plate. Definitely do not put it with its pulp. As you can see, I have an orchid whose roots are completely rotten and pulled . He's almost dead. The leaves are completely soft. I especially recommend using this type of liquid plant nutrients on these types of orchids . It will help revitalize the roots. I added a total of 8 tablespoons of rice water. It will slowly drain this water until the evening. I still have another orchid in my hand. This orchid has also shed its flowers. Now it has started to fade slowly. The first thing you need to do with this type of orchid is to cut off the fading orchid branch and cut off the rotting roots. This is an orchid with healthy roots. but there is some disease on its leaves. You can use it especially on this type of orchids. Again, I give about 8 tablespoons . You need to give this type of liquid plant nutrients once a month . You can also list other liquid plant nutrients alternately, with a different fertilizer every month . Look, it will slowly absorb the water accumulated under it. I recommend that you use this liquid fertilizer not only on orchid roots , but also on wilting and diseased leaves by dipping a napkin in rice water . Here we fertilize the orchid from the leaves . My orchid's leaves can revive. I will provide support and after applying this process, be sure to place the orchid on an airy balcony or on a window sill with plenty of light. Since rice water contains plenty of minerals and vitamins, it will help revitalize the orchid. I will share with you the development of my orchids over the months. In this way, orchids that have no roots left and rotting grow abundant new roots over time . And this is how orchids whose leaves soften are revived. Yes, I shared the development of my orchids with you. First of all, if you watched my video up to this point and liked it, I would be very happy if you click the like button immediately and if you are not subscribed to my channel, subscribe to support me . If you also want to follow my Instagram address. You can follow it as @hayatadairpuf points. As you can see, the orchids are very healthy now. Look, this orchid has grown two new keys. These are thymes coming from the flower branch. This may also vary depending on the type of orchid. But this orchid bloomed two normal flower branches last year. This year, the flower branches produced keiki like this. If you support orchids with liquid plant food and get plenty of light, they will be healthy. Goodbye, stay healthy.