(upbeat music) - New Jersey Democratic (audience boos) My God, Menendez turned heel. (audience laughs) They're not booing there, (audience laughs) He faced his first day of reckoning. - [Reporter] Federal prosecutors of the powerful Senate Foreign with his wife Nadine, to of wealthy businessmen in to help the governments - [Reporter] The powerful the Department of Agriculture to help an associate maintain a monopoly on the importation of halal (audience laughs) - I don't mean to get sentimental here, but in what other country in the world can a Cuban American with an Egyptian born businessman to corner the halal meat market? (audience laughs) Living in America But yes, Senator Menendez is accused of using his access and to illegally help a variety of shady governments and clients. But what evidence do we really have? - [Reporter] Federal agents in June, 2022, finding over $480,000 in cash. - [Reporter] Two bags - [Reporter] $100,000 worth of gold bars. - [Reporter] Payments toward a mortgage. - [Reporter] The - [Reporter] Furniture, even an air purifier. - [Reporter] Four boots stuffed with cash. - [Reporter] Cash even found in the Senator's embroidered (audience laughs) - Sacrilege. Cash in the lining of which oddly enough is reversible. (audience laughs) But the money is in his and his boots and his But none of it ties the - [Reporter] The indictment from one trip to Egypt, for, &quot;How much is one kilo of gold worth?&quot; (audience laughs) - Damn you metric system. (audience laughs) I would've gotten away with it too if it weren't for your meddling kids and your base 10 system of (audience laughs) There could be a lot of for why a Senator's house and gold bars, home heating insulation perhaps or something stupider? - [Reporter] According his lawyers now offering to why he had thousands of dollars in gold and in cash in his home. They say that the habit is rooted in traumatic family history. (audience clamors) - These are simply my (audience laughs) Whenever I am not with People respond to trauma Now when it comes to any trial, and we've seen this finding an impartial jury. - Defense attorneys have proposed if they have opinions about and do they think that because they are from New to break the law? (audience laughs) - You mother (beep) . (audience laughs) You bury one union leader whilst running a human through some Secaucus rabbis and suddenly your whole (audience laughs) You believe this tone? Huh, Tone, you believe this? (audience laughs) Anti New Jersey discrimination, So obviously this is shaping up to be one of the more cartoonishly, in some time. Jersey guy with gold bars and a nice freezer of some halal meats. (audience laughs) Anything else that might of this United States Senator? - [Reporter] Menendez has According to court filings, his lawyers indicate he (audience clamors) - Yes, it's those three magic words that every woman is dying to hear. It was her. She did it. You know, I'd feel a lot worse for her if she wasn't also but read up on it. Perhaps, I can't explain (audience laughs) I'll just say this, (beep) awful. (audience laughs) But perhaps the dumbest not quite believable real how unnecessary it all is. You sir, are an elected official in America's most It's like a license to print money. (audience laughs) You don't need to break when the legal corruption in the Senate is so (beep) lucrative, which brings us to our new segment, Senator Robert Menendez, (upbeat music) (audience cheers) as a New Jersey resident, Senator Menendez, I have to how (beep) dumb is you? Promising favors to foreign entities for a little chunk change on When as a US Senator you so many different, let's For instance, the stock market. - [Reporter] Members of consistently beat the S&amp;P 500. - The average hedge fund was The study found that the average US Senator by 12%. - The average US Senator. And if you think it's because so smart, this is the average US Senator. (audience laughs) Tommy Tuberville, an ex-football coach who doesn't know the three Oh, but when it comes to the stock market, he sees the matrix. (audience laughs) How do they do it? Well, the secret is a shrewd understanding of the intricate interconnectivity I'm kidding, they have inside information. (audience laughs) - California Congressman his wife sold chairs of The very next day the in the House released a damaging report on the Boeing 737 MAX. - Oh my God, what timing. (audience laughs) You see that? See the rest of us only find as we're being sucked out of the fuselage mid flight just flying out over the wing. (audience laughs) You're flying in the air (audience laughs) I don't think they're good. And it happens all the time. North Carolina Senator Richard briefing in 2020 about how bad to be for America. And he immediately sold off his stocks, saving himself a small fortune. Of course he had a reasonable explanation. - We wanted to ask you about in February of 2020. The SEC says that you had when you made those trades. - You have to look at what I put out. - I did look at what you put out. How is that not insider trading? (door shutting) (audience laughs) - I'm so sorry sir. I wanted to answer your question, that kept these elevator doors open. By the way, for those of you at home who don't have a gold plated elevator, you can avoid these types by pretending to take the stairs. Oh, I'm sorry, I can't (indistinct). (audience laughs) (audience cheers) I would do that bit As soon as soon as I did the first one 'cause I didn't do it in And I was like, that's not a good idea. (audience laughs) That's one of those where and pull me back up. (audience laughs) Now you might be wondering to yourself, how does Congress get away with all this? Well, it may be because by, let me check my notes, Congress. (audience laughs) And it's Congress that has on the bills that have been of Congress from trading stocks. Because not letting members would be un-American. Just listen to one of of this stock windfall. - [Speaker] Should members be banned from trading individual stocks while serving in Congress? - No to this second one, and people, we are a free market economy. They should be able to - Ah, free market, excuse me, Ms. Speaker. I don't mean to interrupt, from the why the (beep) did (audience laughs) Why the (beep) did I go to jail? But here's the thing. In a free market, everyone has access to So unless you're gonna put all of us on the committees, I don't get it. Now, to be fair, Congress does have rules Members of Congress are what might be viewed as No free concert tickets. They cannot accept food, baked It just would not be proper. But in Congress's infinite wisdom, they do allow organizations to set up what are called leadership PACs, where a congress person can from lobbyists into slush funds. A pharma lobbyist cannot and some NyQuil, but through the PAC they for Kirsten Gillibrand, and even golf lessons for Rand Paul. It's all in Ayn Rand's (audience laughs) It's corruption, really? That's my literate crowd. (audience laughs) I read that in college actually. This is corruption in plain sight. We won't accept gifts, but if I wanna have a luxury experience and you would like to pay for it and then join me on said experience where we can discuss issues important to you and your industry, Senator Mike Lee of Utah? - [Reporter] Shortly after for 22 friends, we decided to ask Senator Mike - Politicians raise funds - I just wonder if you like this. - I enjoy skiing, thank you very much. Thanks a lot. - From now on, I am ending I ever have about anything (audience laughs) Good day, but, (audience cheers) but are luxury lobbying Senator Menendez? 'Cause you could always write laws that directly benefit your side business. Like the way Senator Chuck in farm subsidies or the $5.3 Doug LaMalfa got for his gentleman farm. And by the way, for that much money, you better be growing (audience laughs) It's all legal and not Or you can leverage your stature in government to get for your wife and your three kids like - I don't even understand Everybody's family does something. - My father was a corporate and his father before him. Yes, everybody's family does something. For instance, your daughter green-lighted Chinese patents, or your son-in-law might receive billions and no questions asked Saudi investment. Or your son might get a lucrative Let's hear Hunter explain that one away. - If your last name wasn't Biden, do you think he would've been asked to be on the board of Barisma? - I don't know, I don't (audience laughs) - Holy shit. Out of all the Senators and Representatives who and wouldn't answer any (beep) questions, you know you're in trouble and transparent person in a story of government corruption (audience laughs) Yeah, now you might. (audience cheers) (John muttering) I don't know if I like (audience laughs) Now you might think someone should step in and stop Congress from being able to enrich themselves, Well, it will come as no who think it's fine to from a wealthy businessman to police corruption. In a decision called McDonald They said that the appearance of corruption is not nearly enough for it to be considered against the law. It must be. - This very narrow quid pro quo idea. I'm gonna give you kind of money in exchange for an actual vote. - Whilst twirling my handlebar mustache. (audience laughs) At every turn, our Congress and our courts have been given or redefine what constitutes corruption and get on with your bad selves. (audience laughs) It's a game of reverse limbo, having trouble getting under the bar of corruption we've set? Well, how about now? Robert Menendez's gold bars in exchange for favorable legislation is But for anyone out there of government patronage and influence is of an entirely different how dumb is you? - Donald Trump is entering and his courthouse is becoming of his supporters and wannabe VPs. This week alone, we saw JD Vance, Mike Johnson, (audience laughs) It's like the Met Gala for people who don't believe in women's rights. (audience laughs) (audience cheers) Yep. But of all the people who came out to support Trump, nobody did it weirder than Alabama - First of all, I'm It is depressing, that This is New York City, and we got a courtroom that's the most depressing Mental anguish is trying to be pushed on Republican candidate for the President of the United States this year. (audience laughs) - Mental anguish? This dude spends every day whining about how Gen Z is too and now he's out here like the wallpaper is giving the President trauma. These fluorescent lights (audience laughs) I mean, I'm sorry to tell but that place doesn't most depressing places in New York. Try the sushi case at Duane Reade. (audience laughs) Sad, it's very sad, I know it's very sad. Or the bathroom at Port Authority, or honestly anywhere at Port Authority. You'll be begging to be put on trial. But the point is, I'm of his buddies coming by to cheer him up. But maybe they could just I mean, it's kind of that he would never cheat on of dudes outside waiting to suck him off. (audience laughs) Let's move on to some local news that's also international news. It's a new public art project that's really building bridges. - Welcome back everyone. A new art installation meant It's called The Portal, you There are two identical that connect two cities Visitors in New York City and Dublin, Ireland can see each other and interact in real time. - This is so cool. We mean more things in our lives that bring us together across different countries and cultures. Let the friendship building begin. - [Reporter] One person of the World Trade Center on 9/11. Then a New Yorker went and shared a picture of a to the Irish famine in the 1800s. - [Reporter] A number of people who were drunk are They showed their bare arses, She grinded her backside People are gonna be trying to better each other, see who's worse. We're winning so far, so that's good. - Come on (beep) me. (audience laughs) Why does everything have It's beneath us. And also you really think (audience laughs) New York hasn't even begun to fight. This is a city built on (audience laughs) Dublin, you're just lucky with tourists right now. Let's move that portal to a Then we'll see what happens. You'll be river dancing into are done roasting you. Woo, sorry, okay, I'm calm, I'm good, listen, we can't of these portal interactions So on behalf of New York, let me extend a heartfelt thank by to say a friendly hello on their way to their AA meetings. Boom, got ya bitch, got ya. It looked like today on the campaign trail. It's Wednesday so Donald from his porn star hush money to spend trying to guess But his arch nemesis, Joe - And breaking news just moments ago. President Biden throws down the gauntlet and frankly some shade to Donald Trump challenging - Donald Trump lost two Since then he hadn't Now he's acting like he Well make my day pal, So let's pick the dates, Donald, I hear you're free on Wednesdays. (audience laughs) Yeah. Now that's the Joe Biden I He ain't scared of nothing (audience laughs) I gotta admit there was part of me that thought Joe Biden would be afraid to debate Donald Trump because you know, debating and thinking and standing. But woo, the way that he powered through that 14 second video makes (audience laughs) Now, I don't know exactly why Maybe he heard all those through the trial and We're on the same nap schedule, but come on, Trump skipped like it was foreplay. There's no way he's gonna - [Reporter] The former to that video this morning &quot;Just tell me when I'll be there, Let's get ready to rumble.&quot; - Oh shit. It's on. Yeah, let's get ready I see dead people. (audience laughs) I want you to draw me like Wednesdays, we wear pink, (audience laughs) Yeah, we're making moves now. Biden and Trump have agreed to debate, but they still need to And those logistics within 45 minutes. - President Joe Biden and Donald Trump have just to hold a debate on June 27th. That's just in a few weeks. - Wow, okay. June 27th, Joe Biden is gonna Yay. I can't wait to watch, like this. (audience laughs) (audience cheers) But yeah, everything moved so quickly. Biden dropped that video and by noon they had It's amazing how when they can get it done super fast. (audience laughs) That kind of makes you other problems this fast, Now obviously there are still because even though Joe he really meant make my day - [Reporter] The Biden campaign inside a TV studio with microphones that automatically cut off when a speaker's time limit elapses. And they want to be and the moderator without the that Mr. Trump feeds on and without the participation Or other independent or - Yeah, I get where Biden's You don't want crowds because and you don't want RFK Jr. because you can't risk losing to the guy with the brain worms. (audience laughs) So they have to work out the details. Trump has to agree to Biden's stipulations and he might have demands of his own. Like every candidate gets or the debate moderator has to be a lady and she has to kiss them on the mouth like the old Family Feud. (audience clamors) Day 18 of Donald Trump's porn another star turn for Michael and all of Long Island (audience laughs) Cohen is the linchpin because his testimony directly ties Trump to the falsification of business records, which remember is the actual crime here. The porn star hush money part keep saying 'cause it's fun. (audience laughs) So for the last few days, Trump's defense attorneys to make Cohen seem less in-flight safety video. (audience laughs) And they have a lot to work with. - Today, Trump's defense Trump's former lawyer and fixer. The defense has also highlighted some of the various insults that he has lobbed against painting him as a man out for revenge after their relationship fell apart. At one point the defense played this clip from Cohen's podcast in October of 2020. - I truly (beep) hope that It won't bring back the year that I lost or the damage done to my family, but revenge is the dish best served cold and you better believe I and rot inside for what he - Wow, that is an angry podcast. (audience laughs) It must be hard to keep that level of anger when you also I'm hungry for vengeance and also for one of Blue Apron's delicious I mean, honestly, I as if jury duty isn't bad enough. Now they have to listen And who is Michael Do the people who hate Trump Is there some guy who's but it's only on 24 hours a day (audience laughs) and it's not just his podcast. Trump's lawyers are dredging ever said about Trump and - [Reporter] &quot;You referred as a boorish cartoon Defense attorney Todd Blanche asked. &quot;It sounds like something I &quot;A Cheeto dusted cartoon villain?&quot; &quot;That also sounds like something I said.&quot; - [Reporter] You referred as dictator dbag, didn't you? Cohen says, &quot;Sounds (audience laughs) - Damn. Trump is just sitting there (audience laughs) And did you also call the (audience laughs) Yes? How about resting ball sack face? That's a good one. Commander in cheese dick. You never said that, but (audience laughs) Look, I get the defense's argument that you can't trust Michael Cohen because he hates Donald Trump. But to be fair, everyone who's ever worked with Donald Trump hates Donald Trump. At some point you gotta be (audience laughs) Let's change gears because Trump's not the only There's also Bob Menendez, and grownup Cabbage Patch Kid. (audience laughs) He's facing corruption charges and now we know he's going My wife. - [Reporter] Lawyers for to shift the blame for his - [Reporter] An FBI search in Englewood Cliffs, New turned up more than $480,000 in cash along with gold bars. - [Reporter] And the Menendez defense suggesting his wife Nadine was responsible for the gold bars found they were in her closet. &quot;He did not have a key to that closet and did not know of the the defense attorney said. - This is shocking, okay? This tall blonde woman and has a locked closet full of gold bars is not a real housewife? Andy Cohen wake up. (audience laughs) So Bob Menendez's argument is that his wife was secretly international bribery scheme and hoarding gold bars in his own house and he never knew it. And that gentleman is why you need to ask your wife about her day, okay? (audience laughs) Ask your wife about her day. (audience cheers) It's the little things. Seriously though, the balls on this guy to throw Is anyone buying this? Menendez's lawyers are actually arguing that his wife had the gold bars because she's of Lebanese descent and the Lebanese love gold. (audience laughs) Which is a stereotype I Like doesn't every culture like gold? No one's ever like, oh, I couldn't possibly accept your gold bars. My parents are Canadian. (audience laughs) (upbeat music)