Thanks to Brilliant for supporting this whole Go to Brilliant.org/SciShow to learn more. [ INTRO] Of all the strategies life has developed for parasitism is among the most popular. A parasite is an organism that makes its living taking resources from another, called the Parasites give nothing back and often harm the host in the process. Scientists have estimated that anywhere between 1/3 and 1/2 of all life on Earth is although there's still a lot we don't What we do know is that the unique challenges and opportunities that come with parasitism to the evolution of some truly strange and sometimes disturbing features. Fair warning: some of what you're about is pretty gross. So if you're on the squeamish side, this may not be the list show for you. Case in point, the first parasite on our list a crustacean that latches onto a fish's and lives in its mouth. They're often called "tongue-biting isopods," and they belong to a group of crustaceans This group includes many species that attack usually infecting the skin, muscles, or gills feeding on the fish's nutritious fluids. But species in the genus Cymothoa have a particularly disturbing habit of going for Since there's limited space in a fish's this approach is strictly a first come, first These crustaceans all start out as free-swimming, They wander around until they find a fish There, they check to see if the mouth is unoccupied. If so, they move in and bite down on the fish's Well, technically fish don't have true tongues. They have a bony structure called a basihyal, but "basihyal-biting isopod" is not nearly Anyway, once the male parasite has affixed it transforms into a much larger adult female! And that's where the isopod lives its life, sucking nutrients from the fish's bloodstream through the bottom of its mouth. Meanwhile, any other males who show up settle down in the gills and make only occasional to the mouth to mate. So a fish with an infection usually ends up 1 female in its mouth and as many as 5 males This may seem strange and convoluted, but it is apparently a successful strategy. These parasites are known to infect numerous species of fish, from snappers to grunions It probably won't surprise you to find out a bug stuck permanently on your tongue has A 2013 study found that infected fish tend smaller and less healthy, but not for the Scientists expected that the infected fish have trouble eating, but that doesn't seem Instead, they think the fish is having trouble The female isopod can grow up to three centimeters, taking up a good part of the volume of the and blocking the flow of water to its gills. And the males stuck in the gills don't help So one nickname given to these parasites - "snapper-choking isopods" - might be spot But when it comes to making a host unhealthy, this next parasite takes it to a whole new In a 2002 study, a team of scientists noticed at certain sites in northern California there high numbers of amphibians with deformed legs. They spotted frogs and salamanders with extra legs that hadn't formed properly, or even The scientists wondered if pollution was to but a closer look revealed that the deformities correlated not with pollutants, but with worms. The ponds with the most malformed amphibians also harboring an infection of trematodes, a type of flatworm, particularly one named These little parasites have a complicated that involves three hosts at different stages They start out as eggs inside the poop of When that poop ends up in water, the eggs and little swimming larvae infect snails, reproducing asexually to create hundreds more These swarms of worms emerge from the snails and swim around to find a tadpole or young where they tend to infect the skin near the Larval amphibians like tadpoles start their limbless and grow legs when they metamorphose But if they're infected, the parasites get of this development and the legs come out The study found a clear correlation: the ponds with the highest Ribeiroia numbers had the most leg deformities. In the most extreme cases, the researchers 2 tree frogs that had each grown 4 extra legs. Unfortunately, these infections appear to be increasing in recent years. Scientists worry that as humans have been modifying these habitats, the worms are doing better at the amphibians' expense. They found, for example more mutated amphibians in artificially-dammed ponds compared to natural bodies of water. These deformities might not just be a side of the infestation, either -- some scientists they might be a key step in the worm's life See, the third and final stage of the worms' needs to happen inside the body of a bird and to get there, they need to get eaten. By crippling their hosts, the Ribeiroia might render them far less likely to successfully It's an amazing - and gruesome - life strategy. But Ribeiroia worms aren't the only parasites that force their hosts to become dinner! Another genus of trematodes, Leucochloridium, invades the eyestalks of snails, turning each into a pulsating broodsac that looks like ready to be snapped up by the parasite's The parasite even somehow forces the snails to be more active and stay out in the open where they're easier for predators to spot. This phenomenon - parasites affecting the behavior of their hosts - is called host manipulation. And while the worms are good at it, the next parasite on our list is a macabre master manipulator. Allow me to introduce you to the parasitic that take over a crab's body and force it That may sound creepy enough for you, but it's so much worse than you're imagining. These creatures belong to a group called the Rhizocephala, and they start out life Mom gives birth to a bunch of little larvae, which spend some time swimming through the until one day they search for a place to settle. But while most barnacles head for a nice solid like the pier at your local marina or whatever, parasitic barnacles seek out host bodies. Females look to settle on crabs or similar When they find a suitable host, they burrow and develop into their parasitic adult form. Soon, a sac-shaped barnacle body emerges out of the crab's exoskeleton like a horrible This blister-like part of the parasite is and it's basically just a chamber for the and developing eggs. The externa also has two little receptacles on the outside, which are for sex... kind While the female larvae infect a host, the male larvae seek to attach to those receptacles on an implanted female. When a male has successfully attached itself, it shrivels into a very tiny, very simple And that's where the male lives, essentially serving as just like a thing to sperm for the female to produce babies. But those babies need nutrients, and the nutrients come from the crab. The externa of the parasite has no guts and but it is attached to the interna, which is a system of roots that infiltrates The first written report of this root-structure, from 1858, came from a scientist who spotted in an infected hermit crab, and described "an innumerable quantity of copper-coloured which ramify through the whole body." Horrifying. But wait: it gets worse. You may think the crab would be quick to ditch parasitic hitchhiker, but instead it takes Why? Because the barnacle is telling it to. See, the parasite-pimple doesn't just pop anywhere on the crab's body. It emerges in the host's brood chamber, in the spot where the crab would normally carry its eggs. In some species, this is under the belly. In others, it's in a special brood pouch. The parasite is essentially mimicking a clutch And those roots aren't just going to the but also to its nervous system, where the barnacle uses a variety of chemical to stoke all the crab's most parental tendencies. The crab could easily destroy the parasite, but instead treats it like a brood of its grooming and protecting it. The changes that the parasite forces on the host are incredible. The host's genitalia degenerate, leaving it functionally sterilized. This prevents the parasite from encountering any competition for the host's parental The barnacle also interrupts the crab's probably to prevent the parasite from falling And if the host crab is male, the barnacle its most maternal instincts ... by literally making it more female. A male host's hormones are hijacked so that its size, shape, and behavior become more since they are the ones that brood young. In some cases, the host's testes will actually convert to ovaries! All of this ensures that the host will take the best possible care of its parasitic overlord. And when the barnacle's babies are ready the crab host flaps its abdomen, a behavior meant to help its own hatching young spread into the water. Instead, it helps the parasite's larvae on their own journey to find the next generation of poor, unfortunate crabs. So far, our list has focused on animals, but if you take a trip to the islands of southeast you might spot one of the world's biggest and most beautiful parasites. Rafflesia can be more than a meter across, making them the largest flowers on Earth. They're so impressive that they've appeared stamps and currency, been named a national and even inspired the design of a Pokemon! But these are no normal flowers. Get up close and you'll notice that they strongly of rotten flesh, a characteristic that's earned them the name corpse flowers. And if you peek beneath the flower, you'll see there's no stem, no roots, Instead, a narrow strand of cells infiltrates the body of a grapevine, not unlike the roots of those parasitic barnacles. The corpse flower is stealing nutrients from using them to grow big and beautiful. Grapevines tend to collect lots of water, making them like living canteens for Rafflesia. Because it steals sustenance, the corpse flower doesn't have to worry about producing its own. Unlike most plants, it apparently has no chloroplasts, meaning it can't photosynthesize at all. This makes it an obligate parasite, or one that couldn't survive without a host. But one thing it does have in common with other flowers is that it spreads by pollination. That rotten flesh smell attracts carrion flies, which come looking for meat and leave covered in corpse flower pollen. So the flower not only steals from grapevines, but tricks flies into working for it for free no meat for them! But Rafflesia has another trick that might make it the strangest parasite on this It's not just stealing nutrients from the it also appears to steal DNA! Research has found that a significant portion of the corpse flower's DNA has been swiped from grapevines. This is a form of horizontal gene transfer, where genes hop between two distantly related instead of being inherited in the usual way. Scientists aren't totally sure why the corpse is a DNA thief, but they suspect it might to better infiltrate and manipulate the host. It's gaining entry to the grapevines by their own genetic tricks against them. From tongue-biting to gene-stealing, parasites have evolved an incredible variety of methods for mooching off others. That's made them part of nearly every ecosystem on Earth -- maybe even the ecosystem inside you! And now, if zombie crab parasites have you we would like to propose an antidote. The natural world can be pretty gross, but it is also beautiful. And the mathematical laws underlying it all give it that elegance. What better way to appreciate them than with a course on the beauty of math? Brilliant.org just released a new course called "Beautiful Geometry", which will take an adventure through some of the most beautiful from tiling shapes to origami folding. And that's not all Brilliant has to offer. With over 50 courses in science, engineering, computer science and math, they've got your curiosity covered. Their hands-on, interactive courses will help sharpen your math and science skills. And right now, the first 200 people to sign at Brilliant.org/SciShow will get 20% off your annual Premium subscription. So thanks for checking it out -- and thanks for supporting us. [ OUTRO]