The Val de Grace church in Paris. Around Pieces of stone break off. Emmanuelle le Gouvello leads a real save the statues in extreme conditions. cornice... and facing the void. team will spend the whole day on "we will have to get used to working at this putting our feet because there are still quite a few which is in front and which is very narrow so uh... the equipment with which we have been equipped. thought through, uh... we're not really not very comfortable, I won't hide it from you.&quot; lead restoration projects. the removal of all the statues. fractured elements, we can see the wing here which is stone deplating like this, we have a crack the day passes through, it sounds hollow we will To avoid any risk of breakage during built to protect these statues which This church was commissioned by Anne to thank heaven for having It was not until the revolution that The church is remarkable for its The canopy above the altar is directly 3 weeks later, the cages are ready. It's Emmanuelle and Pierre Salanon, her At the slightest shock, the sculptures "There, we are in the process of embedding the cages and of the statue so uh... it's down to the centimeter scaffolding structure that was set up, nor the really an adjustment to the centimeter." quite rarely, and each time it's just "Magnificent!!!... That's it!" She flies !! >> everything that is decor etcetera... that's my job, so... that's the passion that I have for stone, for anything ornamental...but even that it was...uh...an element of architecture in the passionate. It's a...that's why I for architecture and decorations. >> de Grace without incident. Emmanuelle started in the profession she has worked on the largest From the Invalides to the Sacre Coeur via most emblematic places of our heritage. in one of the most famous monuments seat of the Presidency of the Republic. first day of construction. It's a the first day it starts so uh...let's go there. >> has barely left for the holidays artisans are invading the Palace. restoration campaign undertaken in They have one month to restore all their A true feat orchestrated by historic monuments. And his site visit "We are here in the Murat living room. An were told that the space was available... and everything is largely prepared in advance, do. have their position their mission >> this private mansion built by the It then belonged to Madame XV, then underwent numerous transformations. current structure by having the grand entrance built latest extension, the village hall, built under the Third Republic. century in a slightly neo Louis XIV style to the Republic. So you have 3 painted ceilings dominant blue, a dominant white in the middle, you have a whole series of references obviously have everywhere. So it is a decor to the blue white red. You have RF of the RF so Next door, the Ambassadors' lounge, located just Emmanuelle and her team must It is one of the most beautiful rooms in the palace, the masters of the 18th century. which was dug into the mass. All of that has been thicknesses of the sculpture These are not so we did it in several boards which were inside... planed to find all of The woodwork has stood the test of time without much is very damaged. Emmanuelle must ensure "I think that the whole goal of this restoration restore this piece to its full presence. It is a it is there, it exists, it has been maintained through to make a restoration, to give it back Two weeks later, On the facades of the main courtyard and craftsmen combine their efforts to The woodwork and gilding are the object The ceilings are now "We have both Emmanuelle and her team are responsible very ornamented junction between the walls and the ceiling. reconstituting all the broken parts is missing, which represents a leaf with we did not remove it , it was an element of decor, had been re-gilded, so it must be restored, so decor of the arch without the equivalent, in model which would allow us to make a print Amelie Rob is a the impression of a golden leaf in good condition. I apply it everywhere to The print is now ready, Amelie will be "There I prepared a small plaster, I first apply a first layer of air bubbles. I put a small layer fairly solid edges. There are quite a few touch-ups to be Each missing part of the "I hope it goes well" that the Decor really fits well with the existing. >> "It's very pleasant to make these kinds of little tailor-made. These are gestures that are traditional, this work. There is a satisfaction when we have the different trades; We have restored it whilst keeping the original decor. for the back-to-school council of ministers. another monument requires his attention. One of the most famous squares in Paris. palace in the capital: the Hotel de Crillon. is undergoing restoration. of the establishment. His challenge is to do everything the work behind this trompe-l'oeil decor. when they arrive, everything has been rebuilt is perfect. So the customers hear a but they also don't realize that Inside, this private mansion It owes its name to the Crillon family a palace at the beginning of the 20th century. the hotel had to adapt to the construction site. its prestigious clientele, the establishment "In the corridor there, you have rooms hear or see the workers. So there we are at the heart of the work, this is where we have behind this wall with the Place de la Concorde. >> century, the architect designed these facades To build these walls, he used A very modern method for the time which using a metal frame. which is sick and which must be treated to rusty iron risks shattering the stone Emmanuelle and her team will address the problem at the root. up to 7 times its volume, hence bursts forces the stone and the stone is not we can deal with it, since we have a view of this after an identification with the scanner, we know that the iron we will drill to the depth of the iron, which will crease the metal, so that there Treat the metal to the core, a technique without having to dismantle the entire building. its customers during the work, and perpetuate In the restaurant, the view of the Obelisk But soon, the large room Because outside, Place de la Concorde, "It's really good in fact, we're going to stay on the light side, the black is faded") Emmanuelle and Pierre, it's time for "Just try to tone it down, "The tip of the nose, the arch") "we're not trying to have a uniform color, which goes from light, yellow, red, pink there are volumes which stand out with zones to bring out the volume of the sculpture. >> seen from below. But when you are close the details, it is a very Yes I find them beautiful, it is an enormous volume to trace, to size. It's very nervous, the drapes For now, it's a break. the luxury... of a lunch at the Crillon. in the sense that we are always on we have exceptional views" we are a bit privileged, it's a job that is not working outside in the winter which are not necessarily access to these places which are not open We are on August 22 and the president All the craftsmen who participated the rediscovered splendor of the place we must be careful not to "Murat is all reinstalled" The Elysee finds its council room and everything" it's great to see it finished. >> of seeing the discovery before the president of the see all the people who worked together" ambassadors' lounge have found all "Hello Mr. Goutal, it's finished..." can see the characters, the patterns, the time..." What I think is very beautiful is that the n't find anything very flashy. >> living room, we have a lot of gilding, the pitfall is which will go well with the other magnificent result, and we find all the tones of red which stand out on the it has found... let's say... its chandelier all the light...I really...well In the garden, it's time for a succeeded in this feat on time. to the President, pays tribute to the teams. all thanked in this way, all the teams, of business and know-how together...that very old professions and that there are young people that we were welcomed like that on the last like that, I didn't expect it at all. >> of the arts perpetuate their know-how in France. A the Loire Valley, the region of castles. Started with Chenonceau, one of the And on the banks of the Loire, Amboise, transformed into a royal residence in the 16th century. work of all those who restore In the suburbs of Tours one of these Laguiole manufacturing Francois-Xavier Richard creates This morning, he starts by painting is to do the right thing. I feel more like a kind of painting acrobat there's an effort involved, it's a fine, measured gesture. In his workshop Francois Xavier a young painter who has been assisting him for 3 years. When they prepare the backgrounds, they use century painters and many of the tools are the same. we call a ferlait...that's a ferlait, so we can lift the roller. So all good balance of the stick, when we come to here I am right on the edge, it's the weight "So we put them obliquely Jerome, The colored backgrounds are now ready to be Assisted by 3 young assistants, Francois-Xavier continues this craft using It has now been 10 years Years of effort and research to bring back to printing wallpaper using a board. Plate printing is an impression plate, which is inked here on the baccao. You a board is fixed and therefore this board is a clearly see the relief and we will apply the board board stroke after board stroke. >> prints all wallpapers on demand Today he has to reproduce a a family home from the beginning of the 20th century. was too damaged or it disappeared or we something like that. But it turns out that we which we will have to put back on the wall as if it its original state , it is therefore a restitution of the as we practice it, we can make, type of wallpaper. For example, we obviously have a large we have different type of paper, we will receive an wallpaper, whatever its condition. These are have a paper which is from an art nouveau period, you have a paper with one...two...three...four.......8 Traditionally, the patterns to be reproduced and then printed on the paper. Francois synthetic boards using computer software. traditional method and modern tools. Francois Xavier makes a board which will be used The first problem is finding Printers carry out numerous Through successive trial and error, they "It could still be a bit red." >> so...candy pink" you have to find all the shades of the paper. of colors and the experience of mixing. understand a color, because in a is the brilliance of this color, there is its resonance...you There is a look to be had on the colors, an The team must now A new board is made but Francois Xavier turns into an engraver... the colors overlap very precisely "So, we're not that good. It is on approximately 2-3 mm. In fact, we "There it's tense because we have lots No more handling which is not easy >> to fix the position of the paper. block technique has always had the status of whatever the techniques, particularly with use, this way of grabbing the paint from these accidents that there can be, it's a not on a button and then it scrolls and that's it, do and which is felt in the result" day the efforts are finally rewarded Look at the effects that we manage to find to what it was at the start. Afterwards it's good..." go and dress the walls for Francois-Xavier is on his way to Auvergne where his family home in Laguiole. allow you to recreate a turn of Final finishes with a brush so Upon discovering the finished decor, the owner of vacations with his grandparents resurface within him. first time, it...it was a paper that I had heart and I didn't think we could have reproduce house completely redone from A to Z, we wanted to like that that belong to the house, it's great it's so successful. In addition the experience of who does everything by hand, it's fabulous" artistic craftsmanship is an exemplary approach for us because work. It's not the fact of printing a paper of detail and here, everything was done like that. >> of block printing, there is preserved intact since the 18th century. It is here in Rixheim that traditional wallpaper factory in the world remains. Zuber workshop has been block-printing wallpapers And it is 5m underground in the cellars of It is here that more A unique collection classified as a historic monument, Khalid Hebbal is workshop manager. He grew up in as an apprentice without knowing anything about the trade... I didn't know, I didn't imagine that this boards. It's been around for 200 years still something." wallpapers with the same boards since 1797. the world for its extraordinary These huge painted frescoes are in fact large landscapes printed The biggest can cover 15 m of walls Throughout Europe and as far as America, the This is the big trend for great discoveries and famous battles. panoramics continue to be For Khalid, the first job consists of Bella" decor currently printed at the and this roll for example corresponds to here. I will show you. Each board for example, corresponds to too. We have bumps and marks. Here, the printing is done entirely by hand. printed with a unique board. 6 months will be necessary. Gestures must "You have to put yourself on top...you don't have to Then I come here and I press. We "What is the most difficult for you? >> concentrate so as not to make the wrong brand. the whole design is shifted, so you just a technique, and it comes with time. >> historic tools. And for Khalid to continue "It's an honor for me because and it's a source of pride...an honor." long tradition continues today We find Francois-Xavier in Paris in historic monuments. reconstitution work that he At the heart of this research laboratory, Louis Pasteur. Francois Xavier meets Muriel "Since your last visit to the Pasteur Museum, notably the dining room The history of this place begins When Louis Pasteur discovered the quickly and patients came from all build a vaccination center. Just three years after the discovery of the vaccine, Pasteur lived the last of his his heirs and the Institute decided And it was in the researcher's library He reconstructed the decor identically original paper that had aged over time. documents we see that there is a gap between the Wall. We work to look for traces we will generally look for it under layers work of research and deduction from this evolution of pigments and colors over also harmonizes with the ceiling" it's wonderful to say... I see what For me it is an important heritage, it was able to the full value of this room" Francois-Xavier restores a little bit of the soul of those who inhabited these settings . in wallpaper because to preserve it is to allows us to get back into that bath." of the past. And Francois-Xavier will In the Tours workshop, with he is preparing the installation of a large To achieve this amazing decor, traditional wallpaper techniques rough embossings. It is a paper that is actually giving relief of relief in positive and negative ways. >> these techniques to Rebecca, who has just a mixture of wax and pigment, he introduces him "It looks easy when he does it, but acquire the gesture... it's a learning process. >> Francois Xavier prepares a tontisse, evoke velvet fabric. for our work, it's a wool that we we will dye to apply it to the paper. >> he applies to the paper a glue which will allow Once dyed, the fiber is paper. The gesture, the way in which I drum shearing before taking on the bite and "We sublimate the ornament. The wallpaper is especially not these gestures. >> There is a language in the wallpaper incredible charm and which really appealed to me. >> with grazing lights...which allow us The patchwork imagined by Francois-Xavier will be former wallpaper factory. Closed in 1983, In the hall, the fresco is composed printed at the factory in the 1930s. Prost to the largest "It's superb . What's funny is that we would have found completely old-fashioned. In fact, or pixelated side makes it become we don't look at in the same way in fact. >> someone whose work is make it tell the story of the fact that we are on Ile de France... and that's how it was done. >> who take designs from the 1920s, it becomes an original creation" of this decorative panel of 1000 "I am delighted with the result, there was a was a lot of unknown. It is true patchwork. There it is more than pleasure, a In Versailles for more than 3 centuries, masters Throughout its history, the former hunting lodge embellished to become this architectural gem. maintained and restored to preserve intact On the roofs of the castle, we She is accompanied by Frederic historic monuments and Michel Vion, Together, they sort out which statues restored and which will be replaced. The condition of this statue representing Justice questions the three specialists. Some too damaged, need to be replaced. because the entire lower part is in which unfortunately are very damaged. >> has a face that is very wrong?" >> nice erosion. It's the nose that's a bit annoying. tip of our nose. She no longer has a nostril. This Statue millimeters of its skin. We are dealing with 100 years so we have to have a have in front of us a statue which is still in old restorations which are part of its history, a copy is a loss of original substance. in situ, with the risk that the original itself interest to make a replacement with a copy. the reasonable limit of its aging. >> sculpted pots will make way for copies. displayed outdoors cannot Following the storm of 1999, all of the for Frederic Didier to recreate the decor A way to immerse ourselves in "The marble courtyard is designed like a living room. There you have hangings which are generally which are hung on the walls. There are in the living rooms, there are large, very gilded arch and finally a painting. There it's the same... instead of a false sky painted with deities. >> statues leaving Versailles. where they will be copied. then be kept sheltered from bad weather where The copies will be carved from the same stone named after this village in the Oise, 40 km from Paris. ago, cut stone Hundreds of blocks from will choose the stones for the new statues. Milleville, the quarry director. good...hey, Frederic, you have an ear for this He rings the stone, because the sound of good it means there is no hair. >> the hair of the stone, it is a micro crack which weakens the block. and then and when it freezes it grows great...this stone seems perfect to me. >> really fine grain. Gorgeous. >> decisive in making a quality copy. 'building.&quot; Michel is now starting to copy one it is made up of 3 blocks that he "You see this line there, it's this point the hand like that and then we will have, by approximately like that. It should be over here with the this is the exit from the cornucopia which At 58 years old, Michel is an exceptional copyist. Year after year, it has developed eras to become today In his wake, the other sculptors interpreters serving the art of stone. it's almost impossible. Two sculptors something. We put our own, " oneself to do something that will stay work will last for a good hundred years. >> Versailles where the statue of Michel will take "We're good there! >> "It was won but we her place. There is only one place remains to be seen the opinion of "There is nothing that shocks me at first chubby with well-marked nails. slightly spatulated fingers, that's good." to sculpt, who knows what the 17th century is. less easy than it seems... you have to get into You have to immerse yourself in history. >> restored. When I get older I will be able to tell all of this there is the human adventure. It marks >> We are now leaving Straddling Alsace and A country which is home to an exceptional glassmaking tradition And workshops which have attracted here the It was in Meinsenthal that Emile Gallet And a few kilometers away, the former world-renowned crystal today. established here in Wingen-sur-Moder since 1919. manufacturing secrets have been passed down Master glassmakers in molds and finished by hand. and sculptors perpetuate a tradition of high standards. of the house and this culture of excellence Pierre Seanger is a crystal sculptor. of the profession to younger people. we are going to go into another specific area, we are is a Versailles vase, so there you see, there which continues along the vase all the way we would have to be very rigorous about the decor. >> For 5 years they have been preparing for "You take the fish vase...you They will learn how to retouch the decorations "Try to attach the Always try to get three points. If you serves as a guide for support. You see it's much On this "Versailles" vase, a classic using a traditional tool. elders taught us, I remember that I was here because we wanted to succeed. This is why Pierre Saenger "You have to start from a healthy part continuity, you will still have to be patient. >> makes you dream, 40 years in a especially doing such meticulous work, is taking shape again, that it's who reworks maybe in 40 years we will be the same. >> (Wide view) the history of the house. He became one of the (Lip trembles) makes the unique pieces and sculpts Geoffrey Gatell "We see that his gesture is ease. It's quite disconcerting SYNTH Geoffroy Gatell - Apprentice Master of Art the piece can break at the slightest wrong movement. I forget to put my hand it could be fatal. I a few years of experience to perceive that. >> "When I have finished a piece, I feel a the piece. >> COM This love of the profession, Pierre, owes it to work of art. A story that begins with jewelry designer, he is also a visionary COM He then met with dazzling success and his gave him an international reputation. 1970s. He perpetuated the tradition and style which its notoriety. COM Return to the workshop where Pierre and spectacular table entirely in crystal. The two COM Denis Mandry, the factory director, is addition to the table, 15 other pieces are due to Denis Mandry "It's a special order, we n't be any accidents, we're a little stressed, COM And time is running out. Other (...super pretty) the hot glass workshop works tirelessly. (Boulle in the oven) In this oven, a mixture of sand Molten crystal that these master glassmakers (End music ballet pickers) forming a ball of liquid crystal "Last check to see if there to have pure Crystal you need to have the eye The molten material no longer contains now place the 25 kilos A decisive moment. It's all about perfectly print the patterns in the dough. returning a little temperature to properly with them, the fewer alterations we will have to do. >> imperfections may appear when unmolding. It is then up to Pierre to intervene as here on an "I correct a defect, the air bubbles on the sculpt the decoration afterwards so that it is natural. >> the hands of around twenty. At the end of checked one last time before being The work is finished, destination London. they will install the 15 pieces a large restaurant in the heart of the city. he left Alsace was 35 years ago... what we're doing there is not not a trip it's a dream we have, I don't think A dream that first leads them to the Victoria decorative arts, to discover an For Eric and Pierre, these works of art represent "When I see the work of the time, the phenomenal with the tools of the time eh. Even such fine work you'd have to be strong to do a job like Now it's time for them to join &quot;What worries me a little is that I a single word. We're in a Eric and Pierre have an appointment unpack the famous table. the large oak table...it is a very heavy careful with handling" The 250 kg top must be taken transporters cross the large room of the the tables. Pierre is worried. careful not to break anything in the middle of the We are in one of the most old church built at the beginning of the 19th century. difficult to maneuver. Each movement is arouses the fear of a fatal scratch. concentration, the large slab Eric and Pierre carefully inspect every "It was quite tight...the slightest shock we relief is there, she's on top now. >> let's go. >> install everything. The table but also the mirrors The assembly of the 24 elements of the large table of specialists. The balance and stability of each part and the pressure of a few screws. no longer touch it with our fingers. >> or an engraver will always say: we have more of a easily see a defect that the eye perfect, we arrive at a fairly practically perfection. A pretty perfect assembly. >> it's not an exaggeration. >> If one piece is slightly overhanging, A few more adjustments and the dining room The great Swiss chef Anton Mosimann. it's really special. >> it's really magnificent, very special at the it's like being at home. >> We arrive at the peak of art, when we have personal satisfaction." Pierre and Eric are even entitled to the honors A few weeks later, an The opening of a new A tribute to the dynasty of crystal artists. the frame of a chandelier which is to be This is an exceptional work It had been lying dormant for 60 years in spare parts in On the ground, a gigantic puzzle of 337 crystals. A real headache to put back together. resize the 60 broken parts. You must blocks in their locations. putting too much pressure on the crystal" otherwise you have to redo a piece..." it This is the culmination of work that very interesting to piece it together actually. >> To finish the chandelier, there is And it is Pierre who is responsible for recreating it. This time, it is a blown piece. centerpiece that closes the bottom of the chandelier, a whole ball made so re-sculpt the missing decoration. >> glass blower. To create this he did not use any modern measuring tools. the repair of the glass and the thickness the fact of cutting behind it and the fact that wet newspaper and with this you can After a few hours of cooling, Like his predecessor 60 years ago, Pierre Lalique for the cabochon of the chandelier. "I admit that I have been at home for 41 years I haven't seen this life go by...I think Through these pieces, I retrace in my had the honor of making for the brand. These At the museum, the time for the inauguration Lalique creations are finally brought together in this And it's up to Pierre to put "I think it's very beautiful, starting from I would never have believed that I would one day be, house and that is very beautiful and very strong. >> house of Wingen and its