want more sleep space episodes check the pinned comment or stay until the end of the If there's one thing I've learned about light seems to love messing with us. For years, particle, or a wave, because it keeps exhibiting It behaves one way when you're looking at But at least its speed is consistent. No matter your frame of reference, Except, no, it turns out the constancy of Light might go slower than physics would I'm not just talking about light slowing down what I originally intended this video to be saying that in some circumstances, light seems it either going slower or faster than the speed But the really weird thing is that it ends up at I'm Alex McColgan, and you're show you what I mean. Thanks to a new I want to show you that your understanding of Light travels at 299 792 458 m/s. According can travel at, and interestingly seems to stick to Two people could be travelling through space at 50% the speed of light - but if they both they will see them travelling at the same rather warp than allow you to see anything Of course, when scientists say this, they are We've known for a long time that as soon as you travels slower. Light travelling in air only goes light in a vacuum. Light in water goes around caps out at around 200,000,000. The reasons for and certainly not physics-breaking. When light electromagnetic fields gets the electrons within bobbing on water. But, as electrons moving up and creates a magnetic field, a second light wave is overlaps the waves of the original light, albeit the original light (exactly what speed varies they interfere with each other - they take an to build each other up, and sometimes working total of all the ups and downs of each wave, travels at a different speed to the other two, Eventually, this propagating wave can reach the electrons interfering anymore, you're left with to travel along its original path again at its Scientists have had a lot of fun Researcher Lene Hau at Harvard in 1999 was km/h by sending it through a cloud of sodium a degree above absolute zero. 2 years later, before warming up the cloud and You might find that result surprising. However, strange things have happened In 2000, researchers at the NEC New Jersey sent a pulse of light through a cloud see how quickly the pulse exited the cloud, it While this might appear to mess with causality - it, after all? - fortunately there was a simple paradoxes. Although the light pulse travelled This was more an optical illusion than Let's take a closer look at a photon of light. moving up and down. The speed the waves inside the while the speed at which the packet as a whole You can also have a wavefront velocity, which photons can travel. This is a little heavy in its Think of a crowd of people doing a Mexican is the phase velocity. You can see the it might look like it's travelling quickly. But wave's true speed is 0. These people are the group Let's imagine that we wanted to send and could keep doing a Mexican wave as they make the wave go really fast in the direction of the front of the crowd. Information exchange the crowd itself, regardless of how fast the Einstein in relativity never claimed that He just claimed that information And if you're trying to deliver crowd of Mexican wavers in their direction, waving. Until the first person in the crowd Still, this difference between the waves within interesting in our next experiment. And this Oh, you thought it was weird already? Oh, Let's go back to an experiment we've looked at into depth on this experiment in my video here. If you do so, as I'm going to assume you know what This experiment is a fascinating exploration and sometimes like a particle. However, in figured out a way to separate the slits of The way they did this was simple. They took a that under specific conditions can be made to they use in most mobile phone screens. They the material from transparent to reflective window - a few femtoseconds - where the laser They recorded what the laser looked like after it had spread out a little bit in the process, but The weird thing was what happened when they sent in rapid succession. The position of the the same - the only thing different Oddly enough, when two went through, This was not an interference pattern in the same experiment, though. This was an interference Certain frequencies of light within the way intensity faded out in the regular To visualise why this might be happening, let's The time slit experiment can be drawn in a except we're going to need to visualise the let's create a 4D graph where space is along easy enough to do - it just looks like this: hits the time slit, is reflected and arrives at line just to make things simpler later, Later, a second photon is it reflects and arrives at the represented in how it takes place higher up If light behaved normally, travelling along this would be the end of it. Instead, light must be travelling along a path that takes This is the only way that light would come like in the double slit experiment, it's likely As for why it's frequency and not intensity implications of what you might see if light did Photons come in little packets of Now, look at what happens if you change Here's how it normally might look: and have highlighted every time the Here's what happens when you alter Suddenly, the peaks are coming in much more is very much connected to the colour light is redder in colour, while increasing the So, this colour variation makes sense. on with the paths this light is the straight lines we started with represent the So what can we say about the photons For some parts of their journey, they are taking more time to arrive at a destination that's of their journey, they are travelling faster than they are travelling backwards in time. As a actually the same one, just at different points It is a mind-bending result. And yet, according a research team at the Imperial College The implications of this are startling. Light that allows it to arrive at its destination the fastest anything in the universe apparently locate exactly what path that might involve, feelers that check to see if other paths, and present a more viable solution. These feelers are but also with photons that travel a To be clear, we never actually detect photons photons coming in from the future. We never see provided there is no supercooling gases And yet, for interference patterns to occur, out alternative routes through time. Perhaps directions to find the optimal path to its works and collapsing down that path in one giant Or perhaps some other phenomena is at play. For now, all we know is that light play by anyone's rules. At least,