MENG TAN: My dear is one of the world's most relating to emotion He is also an amazing author. He has written more than ten Intelligence,&quot; that sold more than 5 million copies. He has received has been nominated twice On a personal level, Dan is for me becoming an author. So back in 2007, Dan of distinguished friends, called &quot;Search Inside became a very popular And I remember in were taking a walk right there. I remember the exact We were taking a trying to convince him to Inside Yourself.&quot; And what he told me was, I just don't have the time. And then he looked at me, and said, Meng, why I was like, me? I'm an engineer, not a doctor. Dammit, Jim. Eventually, because of Dan's in me, I did end So thank you so much, Danny. I'm really excited &quot;Focus-- the Hidden Skillfulness over of all higher cognitive Attention creates the conditions Attention is so important that it is the first thing we train. The first thing we Yet I think the itself is not getting enough And I cannot think of anybody on an important topic as Dan. So my dear friends-- I'm delighted that And I'm delighted ask me to write the book. My friends, please and Google's DANIEL GOLEMAN: Thank you. That's sweet. I'm always happy 2007, that reminded In 2007, there was a short And it said, there's a new The word is &quot;pizzled.&quot; It's a combination of And it describes how you feel takes out their BlackBerry and Think about that. Both things have died. That word and BlackBerry too. Things change quickly. That says something. I remember when I went around I'd like to write a One of them said, that's great. Keep it short. Because I think attention is as Meng was hinting-- that's I'm most worried about but I think we all Here's something Herbert Simon, said, &quot;What the attention of its recipients. Hence, a wealth of of attention&quot;-- to the that there are two There's the attention that and there's the attention There are actually different One is a top down system This is when we decide to We're applying that But then there are the endless seductions. And there are more and I get-- I'm writing away on my you've got an email. That's a seduction. That's an intrusion And because of the and the cleverness of people some of whom are I just realized-- to be paid more attention to if increase our capacity for it. This also-- the fact that along with the fact that there-- there's been an explosion about the attentional has vast implications for us. This has really, since enticed me to write the book perhaps luckily, now And as I got into had to rethink You didn't mention that yeah, the next issue of will be out next week, on the leader's focus, intentional capacities, that And we're actually all leaders. I think of leaders as anyone not people on the But to the extent to get more control and it makes us good matter in performance it's led me to revise or my thinking about it. And I'll share that with you. There's an effect called-- are probably familiar with It occurs at a It occurs at an It occurs anywhere, for a premium put for And it's an because it's rather paradoxical. What it means is that IQ, of the level of cognitive and that you can understand-- people into job roles Once you get selected becomes defined largely And it's because of And are you all familiar OK. So a little statistic-- so how's this going to be?-- IQ into a scatter plot, you get because those are largely and they partake of different So you have this pool of people. And if this is the IQ axis, and and this is the emotional there's much less range than there is for And the way this manifests in generally is that if you a competence model-- what a competence model is? Another term I should explain. So when I was a my professor at Harvard, David It was very controversial. He said, if you want person for a job, any don't look at their IQ. Don't look at their GPA. Don't look at their Look at people in your hold the role you're hiring for. Identify the top 10% by sense for that job, to people who are only and determine the set that you find in don't find in the average. That's now called And it's done by world pretty much worldwide. And what's interesting about what interests me-- is if you and they're all independently actually, because a company to know for competitive should we look for in our hires? What should we promote for? What should we And they want to But I aggregated after I wrote &quot;Emotional book. And I only looked in the competence models. One was, if you look at the not the entry but distinguishing, the and you separate them in terms like IQ or technical skills, and you have emotional which is how we manage we manage our that for leadership, of the competencies are on the emotional Well, that makes sense, about being the smartest It's about helping other which is a people skill. And so emotional intelligence awareness, self management, And when I looked at that I realized that the first awareness and empathy, are And social skill, of how we manage we read in the other person. So managing ourselves based on how aware So I revised the model. I'll walk you through some I'm going to share with you next week in the &quot;Harvard so you don't have to the &quot;Reader's Digest&quot; So the first ability, or set I call it, which is being aware And that's exactly what in &quot;Search Inside Yourself.&quot; You're teaching self-awareness. And by the way, I see every including mindfulness, as If you strip away of any meditation from any you find an is being strengthened. Would you do agree with that? Yeah? Yeah, exactly. So for self-awareness, is really important in many of life, I think. I have a friend-- I Valley of California, in the Don't stop there. Just keep going to And there was a the road in the next town who He was a really bad student. He almost flunked He managed to go to a his way to a film course. He loved film. So he got into a film school. He did pretty well-- caught the attention hired by the director. The director liked that he let him direct a film. He did so well with a studio actually backed him written before, when That one did so wanted to back him But he hated the fact that That meant-- he considered and he hated what they So he said, no way am I I'm going to use the money finance it myself. Everyone he knew in Hollywood You do not risk your He did it anyway, Only the 11th bank he went to You have seen that film. &quot;Star Wars.&quot; George Lucas is someone and considers himself, The factory he stumbled was an accident of his And one of the strengths is that it helps us is what I'm about with my sense of purpose, And the way it does into subtle signals that of the brain-- which is of awareness for the most more information And parts of that brain extract decision that, that worked pretty well. When I said that, that bombed. And when we face it summates that information Problem. It has no direct of the brain thinks in words. It has extensive circuitry to You get a gut feeling-- feels Then we put it in words, So George, I assume, feeling-- I just This is an ethical Howard Gardner, a friend studies what's Good work combines what we're excellent at-- what engages us, in-- our sense of ethics, In good work, when you align and ethics, you have something that it's a pleasure to do. In fact, it gets you which is the state the state of maximal or maximum neural harmony. Simple schematic. This is performance. And this is stress And the relationship between is very well known It's curvilinear. It's an inverted &quot;u.&quot; If you have good work, you're This is the state some of It's called flow. The flow state was determined by researchers at the University in many, many areas of to describe a time you outdid at your best. And they asked chess asked basketball player and It didn't matter who they asked. They're all describing the There was a neurosurgeon a very difficult, challenging He didn't know if he could but he did it brilliantly. At the end of the and there was a little He said to the She said, well, while the ceiling caved in over You were so concentrated. It's 200% concentration And one of the through developing and Other elements of it calls on your best skills. You're challenged at the Another, you're You're very flexible. Whatever happens, You're not set in some Another element of flow that's The things we generally are things that or micro-flow. Flow is also where people Now, the state down here Because you're under-- set-- you may be a but you're driving a So you're under-challenged. You're disinterested Actually, I doubt that but in the working disengagement-- which is what is an enormous problem. People will just do They're not interested. They're not engaged. It's not good work. However, what they And daydreaming is that has value. Every kind of attention It's when they're out of Daydreaming, it the brain chooses to There was a study-- gave people an iPhone at random times of the day what are you doing now, and In other words, is your Are you daydreaming? That's the 50% data. The most daydreaming was when at a computer terminal-- of the people in this And work, generally. The most focused? When people are making love. Who would answer an app This is just totally It happens. So these are two different The third is when There's actually an By the way, this for this is the levels particularly adrenaline So if you're way you're having what's The amygdala is the part which is the radar for threat. Our amygdalas right now amygdalas have asked And it is, am I safe? Is there a danger? That's what the The brain, you have to remember, The neocortex, the part of the that was like a later-- That was added way later And in fact, the brain to give precedence to So if the amygdala it can hijack the rest of the prefrontal area, the part in-- the part of the brain And the amygdala has in the brain. One neuron-long connection from the senses. So if gets an instant There's a problem. I don't know if many are old enough to remember AUDIENCE: Yes. DANIEL GOLEMAN: You remember Some people do. OK. So that's what the It has a staticky picture, actually does go up to But the amygdala has a It has a kind of &quot;rather be So it calls emergencies when an emergency. And just to live not in the biological toothed tiger type live in a complex So the amygdala social signals-- or That guy's not That's unfair. The amygdala is So the amygdala like, this guy's not I'd like to slug him. That's the way the So the good news goes from the midbrain up And the prefrontal area from all parts of the brain. So it might add something like, So you don't hit him. You smile and change the That's called So people who are in this was an article in &quot;Science&quot; &quot;The Neurobiology of Frazzle.&quot; People who are frazzled have because one thing is redirect attention to If you're having a you're going to be thinking that you might want to be else-- like 2 AM, when That's the amygdala. It forces our attention it might be if we were here to It also reshuffles memory. Memory is in a hierarchy. So when you're having a you can't really remember so That's how the amygdala works. So this is an attentional state particularly when There's a difference and rumination. Rumination is thought loops you are upsetting, and you go over Constructive worry is the amygdala wants you and you come up with And then you stop the thought. You can go back to having over attention. So those are three very I want to call your attention that I think is really crucial, And that is the voluntary It's called &quot;cognitive control.&quot; When you do mindfulness, you're Just mainly for yesterday I was in Chicago. And I gave a talk, was there from the Collaborative And he said he really sees this of, basically, with emotional intelligence. So cognitive control depending on people's in a lot of interesting ways. Sometimes it's called the the allocation of attention, to distractions, impulse and learning readiness. The level of cognitive determines how well he to what the teacher is saying, It's absolutely essential And there's a bell One of the first tests of the most famous-- here, at Stanford, there, which is on campus. And they brought four-year-olds at a little table, put a big, and experimenter says, you now if you want, need it till I run an you can have two then. And then she leaves the room. This is a predicament that tries I promise you. I've seen videos. Some go and lick it like it's a dangerous thing. Some just sing and sing to themselves to About a third can't stand it. They just gobble it Another third wait the endless get the two. The payoff finding when they're tracked down and the ones who grabbed And it turns out the can delay gratification which is what that's a test of. But more interestingly, they out of 1600 points on the SAT. Now the SAT is an it's a test of what It's not an IQ test. And when I told at Princeton that make the Because they said, that's that we see between kids parents have only an elementary where one parent at least But these are all children of So what's emerging is is an independent asset-- the This was really in New Zealand, where they took think 1,037 children-- between ages four and eight. They tested them rigorously And then they tracked them You can only do Do not try this in Silicon And what they found was that between four and eight predicted and health in their or the socioeconomic status Think about that. It's very, very compelling. And it's made me feel-- that that we should be to this aspect of It should be part of education. Because in the study they found that children managed to boost their cognitive And one of the we should teach this to kids. And in fact, if we it would help the People would be much more So there are a number One of them I find I visited Sesame Workshop. Sesame Workshop is where they The day I visited, where all the with two cognitive scientists. Because it turns out that is the translation of a finding wrapped in entertainment. So they told me about one at cognitive control It's called &quot;the cookie I don't know if you've how many people have So you may remember Alan. He has the store Alan wanted to establish club, just like a wine club. You take a cookie. You examine it to see if Then you sniff it. And then you take a nibble. Cookie Monster, of course-- He wanted to be in But he could not He only could gobble. So Alan used several And the one that worked was &quot;Cookie, if you can you'll get a lot of good And that was the one That is a lesson in that's aimed at toddlers, is through modeling. When little kids watch other their brain is So if they see someone that helps them a little bit. Older kids. I was in PS 112 in Spanish And I watched the kids impoverished neighborhood. Is East Palo Alto still poor? Sort of? Not like it used to be? OK. So-- anyway, in New there live in a huge housing The teacher in this the other week, a child And I said, what's wrong? And she said, I saw And she said to the know someone who's been shot? Every hand went up. That kind of childhood-- very And typically you who come from such manifest that in classroom. But this classroom was And I realized why do what they call Breathing buddies Each child goes to their favorite little finds a place to lie puts the animal on it rise and watches it fall. And they count one, two, three two, three on the exhalation. Basically, it's When you train the circuitry you get a &quot;two the same circuitry-- with the circuitry to manage distributing So that's why you get the There's another way to do this. Meng might know about it. It's from SEL. It was developed by a friend It's called &quot;the stoplight.&quot; SEL is Social Many schools now have a curriculum in Basically in managing aware of them, in and collaborating. The stoplight is on It's a traffic light that remember the stoplight. Red light, stop. Calm down. Think before you act. Yellow light, think of a and what the Green light, pick the And that's another way to Yet another way, I play the beta version being developed for the iPad Every time you breathe out, And on the fifth breath And if you keep more difficult-- in other and you learn more and more. And secondly, you like if it's a desert They loved it. But that is also to teach-- to enhance And then, of is what Meng has What's that? MENG TAN: We developed together. DANIEL GOLEMAN: We I'll give you the credit. OK. So that's inner focus. Inner focus is and managing our inner our distressing emotions. The second kind of knowing what's going on There are three The first is-- what MENG TAN: It's 3:40. DANIEL GOLEMAN: When MENG TAN: 4:00. DANIEL GOLEMAN: You Is that right? Well, forget other empathy. OK. So there are three understanding how emotional, understanding and and feeling with; Empathic concern is what's going on in you, but suffering, if you have a need I'm inclined to It's the basis of compassion. And compassion, with noticing what's going There's a spectrum that runs to tuning in to registering within them, empathizing, doing so. And I have a lot more to Because what I wanted to get because I think it's And there's a real that I think Google, or and in this valley, Outer focus is a And I think we all need It could be In an organization, to influence to that you are trying That's a kind of There are family systems too. Family dynamics are systemic. And then there are And it's the broader because it's really a mess. And I don't know if &quot;wicked problem&quot; and &quot;mess.&quot; They're actually A wicked problem until after the It has no stopping rule. You don't know when you're done. Solutions to wicked problems Every wicked problem is Every solution to is a one-shot operation. There's no chance Now, to compound you have to look at what's A mess is a wicked with other wicked problems. Another characteristic, in charge of The people trying are also creating the problem. And time is running out. Welcome to the The Anthropocene Age started and has been increasing Geologists use this term we exist now to describe altering the global life in the wrong direction. That's the Anthropocene dilemma. The real dilemma is that there that don't mesh. One system is-- is human systems-- systems construction, industry, and are systematically degrading support life on the planet. The poster boy, of But that's just one of of problems. The real problem is that designed to notice the problem. The human brain does not that lets us directly because it's too I mean, we're-- the human brain we have to talk-- but not what's actually The amygdala doesn't care. It shrugs. So this is a big, big problem. And, you know, it puts of collectively doing Because everything we And a footprint is it has some level for natural systems. So there's actually It's called life Some of you may It looks at, for And it says, well, glass. In making-- glass It's a process. You could start the history of And you're going to And you're going You're going to where you cook it at for many, many At every step along the way, you And life cycle assessment does It says there are almost in glass, from beginning to end. And at each step, an array of emissions and on the health of the people and on the social well are connected with it. And the metric-- It's called industrial ecology. It's a combination of environmental science, and industrial engineering. They are the ones So now there is a way the damage we do just by living. So I have-- this, by the way, is part of my talk. Sorry. I have a friend who teaches life School of Public Health. He has his students And they say to him after, and to do, the world would if I hadn't been born. Isn't that right? And he says, that's He says, instead of just we should look at our handprint. The handprint takes the and then calculates the good we do, everything He says, instead of just moping think about how you can keep People can do it. Families can do it. Schools can do it. Companies can do it. There's an aggregate an aggregate footprint. If we're really responsible will bear the cost of we would take this And I'm hoping somebody will. My job is to tell you what I think some But really, I don't There's a group at Berkeley built something It's a website. G-O-O-D-G-U-I-D-E. goodguide.com in terms of their and compares products against a better choice. There's one called &quot;Skin products. Personal care products might you never heard of. They look in medical is this a carcinogen? Is it an endocrine disruptor? And it ranks lipsticks, eye Toxicity is one of the And that gives people choice. I feel it's great but you have to look them up. I would like to see the the impact of what we do The cognitive cost have to make to So the cognitive even though the metric have to look it up somehow. It should be-- ideally, it would that we are about to or about to buy the product, or for an organization from So one solution is a partial solution. The second is handprints. The third-- I think because most of the platforms industrial, and so before we knew about LCA, before before it was really a factor. The chemicals we based on petrochemicals. Well, petrochemicals, The reason is that oil They never die. Plastics, bad idea. Styrofoam, bad idea. Better idea? Two students at invented a styrofoam, that is made out of rice And it works just as well. In fact, General Motors is Who knew there was styrofoam But still, better they use because it decomposes. And we really need to the terms of bio mimicry. How does nature do We do it so crudely. We could be much better at it. There are wonderful So that's another thought I reinvent everything. Another thing I'd like to for kids in school, so came naturally to embedded in the And LCA is part of your math. You could be-- could be part of all And the other What do you think? I'm just leaving Because, just to wrap it up, on global systems. And I struck by two things. One was John Sterman, who's unit at MIT, said, our biggest And the other was what He said, whenever we should ask Is it just me, or a group? Just my group, or everyone? Is it just for now, Thank you. MENG TAN: OK, we have about Jordan, do you have the mic? OK. So Jordan has access to Dory. He can ask the first And then the rest, if you can queue up behind Jordan. JORDAN: Hello. What's the relationship Often, if I pour all my I fail to see better are obvious when DANIEL GOLEMAN: Yeah, Actually, it's the good It's daydreaming. Because the classical stages are begin with focusing, all the information, trying you can think of. And if you're still And you daydream. You go for a walk. You take a shower. The annals of full of instants where-- grappled with an equation for and the answer came to him Because in that day-dreamy state you have more access of the mind, which, remember, And that can put together have never been operates in a useful way, Then, of course, you have That's another-- I mean, and oh my god, it's Did you have another JORDAN: Yeah. Can you give us the from the &quot;Harvard article on leadership DANIEL GOLEMAN: That's It was that leaders need inner focus to manage other focus to read and to be able to communicate and that motivates and that you could say the is helping people get And the third is the because you need that for example. You need to understand with the technologies. You need to understand what's You need to understand that your organization And so, for example, with a lot of companies who were very good at but really trampled on people. And now they're realizing is costing organizations. So what I'm arguing is in balance. Will that do? JORDAN: One more. People with ADD are told that they follow their impulses, to control their attention How does this fit DANIEL GOLEMAN: So ADD is a years, when there's able to focus on what the ADD also means wander more, which is why it's years. But it turns out that average, to be more They are more naturally JORDAN: Does anyone DANIEL GOLEMAN: Someone's AUDIENCE: So my question And you mentioned where certain children had better cognitive And my question is, what Do you think it's something And is it affected by things situation, by culture, they've already received? DANIEL GOLEMAN: All of it. In other words, that people have some level It's genetic. But you know, the brain And the centers for are part of the brain that's the doesn't mature And during that period of and adolescence, what you has enormous effect. So the basic repetition is you focus on one you notice it wandered, Does that sound familiar? And every time you do that, strengthen in It's exactly analogous to being And every time you that muscle gets So the more we can do that-- which have some instructional CDs from morethansound.net, Because I think that parents do this for for kids. The more you do it, the better Then you asked about chaotic And that is a negative factor. That's why I was so impressed AUDIENCE: Hi there. I'm one of the fortunate And I would like to know a hijack and the response that I have one team hijacked that goes angry, and I Is that a relationship or something else? DANIEL GOLEMAN: Angry and There's a wonderful by Dan Siegel called It'll be out December 26. And it's about the It's actually written for to read together. But one of the is the phenomenon that a wider discrepancy than between two neural systems. One is the system for surges ahead, and the other which lags a little behind. And so individual in the gap between but I've heard a as widening the gap AUDIENCE: Thank you for this incredible lecture. I'm wondering with that you have here and and what they look And as far as I can this really doesn't We have cognitive problems that been heavily-- heavy I'm on medications that And I'm working with a Jim Fallon-- I don't know and I'm told that of a chance of doing And for me to focus actually And I was wondering if you have DANIEL GOLEMAN: I'm not a I have friends who are But I think that-- one of is that there's a decline in And they've developed which are web-based to and you might try those, like a shotgun in the brain. They hit many different systems. And the brain still So you can go to the that just might help AUDIENCE: Thank you very much. DANIEL GOLEMAN: Good luck MENG TAN: With that, for in [INAUDIBLE], the is sitting right here. Feel free to talk to him. The book is &quot;Focus, The for those in the it fom the back of the room. Danny will do a book For those not in the room, it's So with this, &quot;Focus,&quot; Thank you, my friends. DANIEL GOLEMAN: Thanks, Meng.