We're going I cannot wait to share this recipe It's the perfect time of year. Autumn, winter, Christmas time. Of course, Thanksgiving. Pumpkin pie made famous by America. Canada. They love it. And actually, So this is what you call But you can also use squashes, butternut one to get in supermarkets. Normally in America and Canada, they often would buy This is convenient, but the flavour from So how do we cook this? It's really easy. Turn the oven on to 180 degrees Celsius. 350 Fahrenheit. Take yourself a little fork. Give it a little prick And literally chuck the pumpkin in there, close the door and let it cook for an hour iIt will go like nice and soft The outside will be kind of burnt. So if you have a look at these, and cooling down. So I want to give you and method for a classic sweet The classic bit is half fat to flour. Okay, so we have 150 grams of fat, butter. Nice butter. We've got 300 grams of plain flour. We're going to give it I'm going to sweeten it Now I want to accent it with just a Really good friends. So I'm going to take a little fine grater and it smells amazing already. So we've got that there. Use your fingers and then all we're going to do is just rub the flour and it just takes like a minute So now we're going to make a little and I'm going to steal one egg here. Nice little free range egg. Crack that in there. No shell. And I'll just take a little fork And once you've done that, we're just going to stir in to the pastry I don't want to be kneading it like bread, because that's just going to make it So look you can see it's just coming together. It's just beautiful. Now, you could wrap that up and you can Absolutely. Fantastic. I'm actually not going to do that today because I'm going to cheat Just to show you that you can. once you've let it rest, you can do all that, I want to show you Right. I'm going to slice it Right. Probably slice And this is very simple. I'm just using my fingers these little slices And it might not be perfect, all the little imperfections. I like the fact that we're not trimming So that's that, right? Super easy. I can smell the orange. It's So that bit is done. I want to use this pumpkin and I want to If I just cut this in half, And if we get in there, look at the colour. I mean, it's extraordinary. Just take a little bowl These seeds, by the way, toss them in a bit of oil, But what we want is the flesh. We don't want the skin So we'll remove those, right? So what I'm going to do and we want 400 grams of beautiful cooked And then I'm going to add 175 sugar and 100 millilitres of double cream So we've now taken pumpkin and it's now in the world of sweet. And we can go further with that delicious sweetness First up, let's start with vanilla. So I'm gonna go three teaspoons of vanilla paste. I'm then going to use three quarters Don't go mad, right? Then I'm going to go This is allspice. I'm just going to go And then another great one, nutmeg. Just take that fine grater again This is really going Now, three eggs. So we're going to split the eggs two ways. So we are going to just crack the egg large bowl that we can whisk these eggs Okay. So this is going to go into my machine. Look at that colour. Okay. While, that's doing its magic. A nice little pinch of salt nice and stiff. And you know when it's stiff, when you can hold it over your head Okay, we're good to go. We have our lovely cake mix Look at the colour. Now we want to fold in the egg whites. So from the outside to the inside, so and just get all of those bits And even though it's not cooked, Look at that. Oho! Okay. So in this recipe, we are not going We're going to have it raw. We're gonna have it raw So get your oven preheated to 180 degrees Celsius, which is 350 Fahrenheit. Look at that, heavenly. Very importantly, Look at that. Right. That's going to go I know that's a wood oven, put it on the bottom, That way you're going to get max We're going to cook it And that's going to be utterly delicious. What's going to happen is this will souffle up a little bit it will just sag and it might even crack. And it's all going to be gorgeous. And then I'm going to show you with the most delicious pecan nuts that Right. Let's cook this. So it smells amazing. Okay, so this has had I'd say just under 50 minutes. Look at that. Such a lovely rustic pumpkin pie. Look at the colour! Really, Smells amazing. Okay, so now what we want to do so you can slice it beautifully. I like to do that onto a little cake rack Look at that. Right. And now I want to show you praline of pecan nuts with maple syrup. I'm going to get a pan on. So maple syrup y'know, I am always thinking about Canada, I'm thinking about, Pumpkin. Pecan is a really nice nut to play with. Have a little look at this. Of course, you can do other nuts, but it just feels a little bit Delicious. So four or five tablespoons of lovely maple syrup goes in. We're going to bring that to a boil. And then as it boils, it is going to start to caramelise a bit Now, when you do that, You're concentrating the flavour more, but when we're kind of evaporating you're going to make basically like So I'm going to put a couple of handfuls into here And just for like a minute or two, so it's a nice caramel. Get a tray, get some greaseproof paper, You see how dark that's got. So when you're doing anything do not have kids running around, right? It is hotter than boiling water. Okay, so we'll use a metal spoon, And while it's hot, and it will cool down pretty quickly. And as it cools because you've reduced So look, let that cool down. I've got a nice little kind of I think a nice vibe I'm going to take that orange and I've got here some cranberry sauce. So what I'll do is just squeeze and just let it down. Right. And I think this is really nice and almost ripple it through. It's going to be a good thing. So that's going to cool down. I'm going to wash this up While that's chilling, how Click the like button. And even subscribe. Oh, and remember so you know what's happening. So this has cooled down nicely. A little tip. So if you get a bowl that's nice and sturdy, then in theory, that falls off like that. Very dramatic. So we can take that off and remove this. And then what I can do just underneath that little bit of the mold Carefully run your knife around the base just move it out Look how lovely that tart looks. It's a really nice, rustic tart. I love it. I love its imperfections. I love the little ridges, It feels really, really hearty. Smells amazing. So one thing to go with this is here, I'll put some in there like that. And then a little bit of that So I'm just going to fold that through. It's going to be good. So now it comes on So this is nice and cool and you can see a giant thing. So it's still a little bit warm. So you can just break this off. And then what you can do over here is just chop it up. Sensational. So we've got pecan chunks, we've got pecan brittle, we've got our lovely cranberry And then here we've got that amazing straight into the middle, Let's do a nice little slice. Ooh it's pretty good! So there you go, beautiful, and then we can take a few of these beautiful bits And look we've got the brittle here Look at that. Oh. And then we've got our little ripple Right. Here we go. Little quiet moment in my favourite place. Mm! Crumbly pastry, soft, velvety, fluffy pumpkin pie filling. So good. So guys, what are you waiting for? Homemade pumpkin pie, spiced up. Go on. Have a go.