Hi! My name is Lizzie. And today, I'm so excited to be inspired by Gabby's Dollhouse. Yay! I'm making the snacks had at Kitty Fairy sleepover. But first, I need to Oh my gosh, my ears But now that I look like Hug attack! Pandy! To really make this a I need a sleeping spot. Wow, it's a-meow-zing! It's cat-tastic! I love it. Now, that my room is ready, it's sleepover snacks. The first thing I'm making today Popcorn! Yay! All you need is four bowls I'm going to start with purple. My mom's going to to make sure it's not too hot. So now, I'm going to in the first bowl of popcorn. Oh, wow. It's coming down in globs. OK, now, to mix. Popcorn and chocolate, that's I think it looks really pretty. And it smells good too. Now, I'm going to on a piece of parchment paper, Let's take it out. I need to spread it evenly. Now, I'm going to put Sprinkles make I love it! I can't wait to eat it. Now, I'm going to do orange. This one did not melt So I'm going to And it is very globby. I'm not sure this is going We can try it with the pink. Yay! Oh, yeah, that's looking good. Let's melt the blue one. I hope this one works too. I think that is good and mixed. Perfect. Now, all the popcorn dries. I'm going to make some Welcome to Fizzy Can we drink it? Of course. So I'm going to make sparkling water and the Let's put this in. Oh, it's already fizzing. I love this. That looks like And the most important Oh, that was a lot. I'm going to mix that. That's so pretty. And it's fizzing even more. I can hear it. It's so pink and glittery. It looks like a planet storm. Now, it's time to assemble in my popcorn container. Add some pink and blue. I can't wait to try it. I think that's good. It's going to fall Look at my cute snacks. Now, it's time to This is so good. And now, for some fizzy I even can taste the fizz. Fairy-tastic! These would be great fun activities to I had so much fun recreating And I hope you had fun watching. Try making these sure to watch Gabby's Hi! I'm Lizzie. Today, I can't wait to relaxing craft from I'm making squishy, Squishy, squeezy glow masks? Try saying that Squishy, squeezy glow mask. Squishy, squeezy glow mask. Squishy, squeezy [INAUDIBLE]. OK, now, let's get started. For my squishy, we need avocado, Let's give it a go. What do we do first, Cakey? The first thing we do is scoop (SINGING) Scoop and scoop Scooping out avocado, But now, I'll mash it up. OK, this is fun. What's next? Now, here comes the fun part. You use your hands to Oh, no, that's very mushy. Nice. This is fun but strange Then, we squeeze in a dash of Then, mush and mash again. (SINGING) So we mush and mash and a drop of honey, Mush and mash with us. (SINGING) Mush and mash and a drop of honey, Mush and mash and mix and a drop of honey, Mush and mash and mix and a drop of honey, There, now, it's ready. I'm so excited to try this. Now, I'm going to Do you like my mustache? First, you draw a mustache. How do I look? Do I look awesome? I think it's going to work. I'm not sure but probably. Only one way to find out. (SINGING) pat and Pat and pat just like that. Wonder how it's going to be? Now, we gotta wait and see. Hmm, nice. Now, I need to leave the mask And then, I'll wash it all away. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Let's see the results. Oh, it worked. I'm glowing. Look at my face. If you want to do a relaxing For more fun crafts, check Thanks for watching. Bye. Hi, there. I hope you're ready for of this show where I make from Gabby's Dollhouse. Gabby has tons of cat-tastic of her dollhouse. Today, we're heading where Kitty Fairy is Hope you're ready for If this is your first time you're in for a When it's PJ time at a all you need to do is I've already built in the garden of my dollhouse. So now, it's time to There are all kinds of pajama [MUSIC PLAYING] Some pajamas are and some hang off the vines. Now that we've got time for a fairy garden snack. At Kitty Fairy fizzy fairy juice and snack [MUSIC PLAYING] Rainbow fairy popcorn is always And what refreshing drink Fizzy fairy juice straight To drink fizzy fairy juice, a flower cup. [MUSIC PLAYING] Now, we are ready Fairy-tastic! The next activity at a is starry storytime, which takes The sleeping spot has a with garden-tastic On top of the rug, everyone Pandy's has pickles Pillow Cat's has Gabby's has hearts. And Kitty Fairy's has flowers. Now, everyone is ready to There's one more this sleepover needs. [MUSIC PLAYING] This Kitty Fairy sleepover [YAWN] I'm off to take a cat nap. Come back soon to see in Gabby's Dollhouse. Meow. OK, who's ready to and make their Me! Yummy. Hmm. I can't wait. Hey, what's this? Is this a special topping? That's a special Kitty Fairy gave it to me. It makes everything Cool. I just want to take a sniff. This lid is hard to get off. Whoa! That's a big tomato. How are we going to make pizza I know how. Whoa! [LAUGHTER] Whoa! Yay! We're going to be big too. Oh, it will be fun to be Now, we can make our big pizzas. Yay! Yeah! Let's start by rolling out You can also spin and in the air to stretch it out. Tail flip. What's next, Cakey? Spread out your sauce. I'm using tomato make whatever sauce you like. White garlic sauce for me. I'll use barbecue. Pesto is purr-ific for me. I'll smother mine in hot sauce. Ha-cha! Next, spread a layer and cover with whatever Because we're making pizza cat, like a cat face. Oh, wow! Yummy! No cheese for me, thanks. Ooh. [MUSIC PLAYING] Ooh. Ha-cha! Hmm, look at that. I can't wait. I'm getting hungry. Look at that. Yay! Paw-tastic! All these pizzas look delicious. Last step is to cook the pizzas. Ask a grown up to put Ooh, I'm almost done. What kind of pizza A pizza that looks See? Ooh. I bet it will taste as And you know what comes next. We get to eat it. Ooh! That was so good. Oh, terrific. It looks like the time I hope everyone's because, surprise, I Oh, yeah! Thank you, Cakey. It's so cute. I'll just add some CatRat. [LAUGHTER] I hope you're ready to watch me Dollhouse. The dollhouse is an for Gabby and the Gabby Cats to There are six cat-tastic So get cozy and cuddle craft Pillow Cat's bedroom. Pillow Cat loves to share When she's not telling stories, I'll start by making the The walls are blue, The bedroom is full of books for They're colorful and filled of stories. The bookshelf is actually all where you can usually If you gently wake her a story in her story cloud. The story cloud is decorated Isn't it dreamy? When everyone cuddles up the rainbow canopy surrounds imagine and play act [MUSIC PLAYING] The tree that starts grows all the way [MUSIC PLAYING] There's a little purple where you can climb inside. This tree is decorated with And books hang A rainbow tent sits [MUSIC PLAYING] Another fun place to read It hangs from the tree. This chair has kitty the other chair in the bedroom. This one has a white ear and like Pandy. Stories can be extra silly when Gabby and her friends if they can come in. Then, they jump into in an a-meow-zing costume. [MUSIC PLAYING] Now, what else do I need Oh, it's right in her name-- pillows. On the bed, she has a unicorn a rainbow pillow, On the chair are cloud And in the tent are Now, that is one And the second floor of Gabby's Now, I think it's time Tune in next time to from Gabby's Dollhouse. Meow. Thank you for letting me, out in your garden, Kitty Fairy. You're welcome, Gabby. It's fun to stargaze Let's lie down and Wow! Look at all the stars. They sparkle in the Awesome! So bright! Oh, no, I can't see the I guess that's the We can still stargaze What do you mean Come with me. To the craft room! To the craft room! Oh, stargazing. How do you make stars? I'll show you. Let's get crafting. For this craft, all you or any light source, a and a piece of paper. I want to use a to look like the night sky. My hole puncher has a star shape Wowzers! Flower-rific! Ooh! Paw-tastic! Cat-tastic! You can even use a pencil Make the holes It's supposed to look like In a lit room, hold your paper over it. Do you see the shadow You can shine your shadow If you want your then turn off all the and hold your flashlight Then, the light will And you've made a Let's try out our craft through the paper and onto All right, stargazers, Let's turn our flashlights 1, 2, 3. Yay! Shadow stars! Yay, it worked! We're superstars. Thanks for helping us stargaze Hey, look. Doodles and doodads, Whoa! It's a shower of shooting stars. Ooh, we saw stars in This sleepover gets a gold star. Good night. Bye. Hi, Gabby Cat friends! I'm Akira, and I'm so excited In this one, we're Gabby's magical dollhouse. Let's find out what's to the Dollhouse. &quot;Hi, I'm Gabby. And this is Pandy Welcome to my bedroom. Isn't it a-meow-zing? Gabby smiled at her real-life bed And this is Floyd. The most cat-tastic thing in All my Gabby Cats live in here. [MEOWING] Did you hear that sound? Gabby asked. That means it's time for Let's see what the [MUSIC PLAYING] Gabby pulled a package Inside was a little Kitty Fairy would Let's go into the Gabby put on her Then, she sang (SINGING) A pinch on my left, Grab Pandy's hand A few seconds and many sparkles were tiny just like They landed in the dollhouse Do you see Gabby in She's right there! &quot;I'm over here, Gabby called. Come on in. Welcome to the First things first, Do you see him? Suddenly, Pandy jumped Hug attack! He cried. Outside the dollhouse, But inside, he comes alive. I thought I heard you another Gabby Cat. Gabby showed her the spaceship. It's cat-tastic! Kitty Fairy exclaimed. Just then, CatRat popped Hey, what's all He asked. CatRat climbed This is the shiniest cat Time for my cat nap. With that, he fell onto the takeoff button. Oh, no! How are we going Pandy asked. The floating spaceship reminded Maybe MerCat has To the bathroom! Gabby told MerCat all Shimmering sea I'm not sure my but maybe Pillow Cat She likes to nap Good idea, MerCat, Gabby said. Let's go find Pillow Cat. To the bedroom! Thanks, MerCat, Pandy said. In the bedroom, Gabby told When I need to think of a and let my imagination Let's give it a Gabby closed her eyes When she opened her eyes, I know who can help. To the kitchen! Oh, sprinkles! Cakey Cat cried when I don't know how to makes me feel better. Want to bake some They baked the treats and Suddenly, the spaceship floated Oh, no, Gabby said. Pandy, let's see if To the craft room! In the craft room, Gabby and I have a craft-y-rific They worked to make a long Now, we know how to need to wake him up first. Baby Box said, I have Pandy, to the music Gabby and Pandy found DJ Catnip DJ Catnip, we are hoping you On it, DJ Catnip said. Let's turn the music up loud. It's the only thing to do. It was time to zoom to In the playroom, Carlita Kitty Fairy told me CatRat She said, do you want to ride? Gabby and Pandy hopped in. Thanks, Carlita. Let's go save CatRat. Outside the dollhouse, Get me out of here! He screamed. Floyd thought the Gabby threw the chains they'd but they bounced off. Then, Gabby remembered paws they made with Cakey Cat. Pandy, any extra sticky She asked. Pandy pulled out a sticky paw. And Gabby stuck one to and threw it at the spaceship. It's stuck! Together, everyone CatRat, you're safe, All the Gabby Cats hugged him. Everyone was happy he was back. Gabby turned to her Now, let's take this spaceship The end.&quot; I'm so glad they saved CatRat. For more of Gabby's sure to watch Gabby's Hi there. I'm Akira, and I'm here to read Today, Gabby and Pandy Let's find out what kind of as we read Cat-tastic &quot;Today, Gabby opened a It was two superhero costumes. She wore one, and We're the dollhouse We'll protect the Gabby put on her and sang her special song-- the one that makes her tiny, so (SINGING) A pinch on my left, Wrap Pandy's hand &quot;Gabby and Pandy landed in the Excuse me, Cakey said. Super cookies coming through. Wow, Cakey, you're a Suddenly, CatRat, the bad guy, CatRat jumped onto the table. I'm going to trap so all the cookies CatRat used his to trap Cakey inside Oh, no, Gabby exclaimed. Then, CatRat laughed How are we going to Pandy asked. First, we have to They looked in the on a page filled with smoothies. There he is, Pandy said. He pulled Cakey You found me, Cakey cheered. Suddenly, a shout came That sounds like DJ CatRat must be at it again. Let's go. I'm super stuck, CatRat had trapped him Gabby pulled on When they wouldn't budge, into the instrument tree. The red tambourines Then, the red cords disappeared. Look, Gabby said. The chords go away when you the same color as them. Gabby and Pandy played all and set DJ Catnip free. Thanks, Dollhouse Boogie over here and Suddenly, they heard Kitty To the Fairy Tail Nothing personal, Kitty Fairy, all for myself, CatRat Kitty Fairy in a bubble. Gabby and Pandy tried so CatRat shrunk them Oh, no, Pandy cried. We'll never reach We're too tiny. Gabby looked at the floating Jump with me, Super Pandy. They jumped from until they reached Kitty Fairy. With a big hug, they popped Thanks for saving Let's fly down. They landed on Now, I'll grow you with a little garden When they were big again, Time for a super To the kitchen! In the kitchen, Oh, no, he said. I've shrunk myself Now, this cookie is way too big. All right, CatRat, I can grow Kitty Fairy said, as long as do any more bad guy stuff. All right, all Here's to the dollhouse I'll eat to that, CatRat said. The end.&quot; That was a cat-tastic story. Thank you for reading with me. For even more adventures watch Gabby's DreamWorks Gabby's Dollhouse. Meow.