Top 30 questions Interview Tools. Have you ever gone on a job interview where felt like you did really well, but you didn't I know; me too. It happens a lot to a lot of people. Let me tell you what happened. You didn't tell the hiring manager what they You see, they have their own hiring guide look for in your answers. And if you don't meet their guidelines, you're So, what I'm going to do in this video; instead not what this video is about, we are going These are the most common interview questions But I'm not going to tell you what to say. I'm going to tell you what they're looking I'm going to tell you what a hiring manager in your answer. And then all you have to do is take that information experience and you'll have a totally natural, Now, before we get started, I want to give Write this down; it's 7-38-55; that's right. And you're probably like, Don, what the What are those numbers? Well, I'm going Those are the three elements of communicating You see, most people don't realize this, but thats right. Your body, your posture is doing 55 percent 38 percent is related to voice and tone. So, if you've got a monotone voice like this, But if you beef up that voice and you talk then you're delivering at a much higher level. And then only 7 percent of your answer is That's right; only 7 percent. So, write that down; 7-38-55. 7 percent related to content, 38 percent related and then 55 percent is related to your body So, you want to have good posture; you want shoulders back. When you when you get into that posture, that and then that makes your voice and your tone That's how you succeed. But I tell you, most people are so frightened just sit there like this and they talk like So, they get a 0 percent on the 38 of the 55 percent. So, an interviewer is only hearing the content I didn't make this stuff up. This is science. This is totally science backed. Go look up the rule, 7-38-55 on the Internet. Get some more information on body language; But what we're going to do is we're going right now and I'm going to tell you exactly 1. So, the first one we have here; tell me about Now, this is one of the most common interview It's a good icebreaker question, but what hear about your journey through your career. They want to hear what got you interested So, if you're in finance, they want to hear about finance and where you're going. If you're in healthcare, they want to hear maybe you like helping people, whatever. That's what they want to hear. So, you don't want to just give them a whole this and I've done that. Share your passion Tell them what got you excited, when it got the journey you went through in your career That's the best way to answer; Tell me looking for in your answer. 2. This is this is a really popular one; why Well, a lot of people, maybe they got laid quit their job. So, now they've got a 3 or 6-month gap on isn't all that uncommon. So, what an employer wants to hear when they Don, why do you have a 2-year gap on your to hear. They want to hear that you were doing something for a job. They don't want to just hear that, Oh, They don't want to hear your hard luck story. They don't want to hear that you were taking They don't want to hear that the job market They want to hear what you were doing to better So, maybe you went to some free seminars, some books. But they want to hear that you were doing career or your occupation instead of just potato chips. 3. What motivates you? Now, the best way to get motivated is to get So, if they ask you, What motivate you, about something, that's all it takes because What an employer is looking for is what gets Why are you excited? So, the easiest way to answer this is to tell I'm so excited about the place I work because going and that's what gets me motivated. When the company knows where they're going with me, I just get so excited about waking going to work because I'm going to a beautiful and a mission of helping people or whatever or whatever your mission is. That's how you answer that question. 4. Why are you applying for this position? Now, for a lot of people, theyll be like, Because I need the job. Totally wrong answer. What you want to do is find out what their You can do this from their website. Find out what their core values are, find to what they're doing; that's what they want So, say for example, you're applying to a Let them know that you have a deep passion by cleaning up all the garbage that's laying Share with them your passion for a beautiful, Let them know that their values are aligned And that's how you answer why you are applying It's because you're aligned with them. 5. Walk us through your rsum. Now, they don't want you to read your rsum, right through it. What they really want is just a recap of your So, the best place to start off with this your education. And just say, I went to such and such school. These are some of the things I did. briefly cover your school, cover some grades, And then talk about what you did after college; And then any subsequent jobs all the way up That's all. It's a simple question. That's all they want to hear. But they don't want you to read your rsum. So, you shouldn't be looking at it while you're You should be able to do it from memory. I mean, it's your rsum; right? It's all about you. You should be able to just talk them through. And you can even ask them, Would you like you can just tell them, I'm going to start you can just follow along with me from there It shouldn't take him more than a minute. 6. Why do you want to work here? The key to answering this question is to align So, you have to find out. You might have to ask some questions, you And what are their values? What is their mission? Where are they going? What do they want to do? And you want to align yourself with where And by doing that, that will make you see overall mission, their projects or whatever with them. That's what they're looking for in your answer. 7. Why are you the best person for the job? Now, for most people, that's going to hit going to start second guessing themselves answer because they're going to feel like But let me tell; you what an employer wants So, throughout the interview process, try are and what they're trying to do. So, when they ask you this question, you can Well, Mr. Employer, I understand what you're are and these are a lot of the things that I know how to do this stuff very well, perhaps But I'm very good at it. Here's why. you've done before that are related to what That's what they want to hear. That's how you nail that question. 8. Where do you see yourself in five years now? Now, this is a growth oriented question. So, if you just simply say, next five years until I figure out what I That's not what they want to hear. You want to align this question to where the So, you have to understand where the company and then you talk about how you see yourself Just simple as that; not too hard. 9. What interests you about this position? Don't just tell them, I'm interested in this to what the company is doing. What kind of projects are they doing? What kind of people are they helping? Whatever it is; what are their goals? What are their values? Align yourself with what the company is doing. Do some research on the company; find out in. I mean, maybe they're just active in some people. You can say that I'm attracted to the kinds Dont just say, I think you're a great company. What excites you about this company? Why are you passionate? You can't just say, I think I'd like to work there gets you excited about wanting to work there; Let them know that you can contribute in a support them and where they're going. 10. Why are you a good fit for this position? What they want to hear now is they want you past education, the kinds of things that you things that they're looking for. So, you have to get a lot of information about looking for and what the goals are for this And then use that back in your answer and Well, I know that you guys are trying to some of the things that I've done do and say, I can help you do that. fit? Think about that for a minute. What makes what's unique about you or the perfect fit for this job versus someone else? I mean, sure, you may be able to do it. Yeah, yeah, I can figure it out, but that's They want to know what kinds of things that So, talk about those things; relate your past It's as simple as that. 11. Tell me about a time where you dealt with Now, this is a behavioral question. You want to answer this using the STAR format. You know, STAR (Situation, Task, Action and So, the first thing you want to do is talk experienced in where there was a challenge. And then you want to talk about the action problem. And then you want to wrap that up with the So, you could relate this to anything, but to use that specific STAR format of a situation turned out. So, basically, they want to hear about one down, things were tough, it wasn't working save the day, whatever it was. That's how you answer that question. Don't just tell them how you would deal with tell them how you have dealt with one; that's 12. Why should we hire you? I guarantee you're probably going to get asked near the end of the interview, after they've they're actually thinking that you might be So, why should we hire you? Now, this is your chance to sell yourself. But you have to understand what they're looking You have to understand all the pains and the they want to grow or what the mission is. Then you want to relate that back to them. You want to relate back why you feel you are help them. How are you going to help them grow? I mean, that's really what the question is; Anyone can do the job; maybe. Why can you do it better? So, why should we pick you over these five Well, you don't know what those other five So, you need to worry about you and what you So, try to pick out unique things about your I used to do this too. When I would interview for jobs and they would I'd say, Well, because I can do this, this And then there were some other things that a requirement, but they were a nice to have. And so, Ill talk about those extra things And so, I came through as a complete package; for, I had more than what they were looking So, it was like they were getting extra things That's how you answer that question. 13. What are your weaknesses? This one breaks everybody. You don't want to just go in there and tell The best way to answer this question is to have already overcome and walk them through There's actually two ways you can answer this. You could talk about a weakness that isn't it and that it's not a weakness anymore. That way they can see progression. That's what they really want in this answer. They want to see progression; you had a problem, anymore. You can also pick a problem that is related Like maybe you're in sales and maybe you kind and you've learned to overcome that and now want to hear. Just walk them through a problem you had, not a problem anymore. 14. Tell me about a time where you went above So, what they're trying to get away from is everybody likes to talk about what they do Well, going above and beyond is going above So, don't just give them some lame story about Again, this is another behavior question; Now, the situation and task; those are one So, it's either situation or task, action So, there's three parts to that behavioral So, you want to talk about a time where maybe fine on a project and then you got hit with unexpected. And maybe you had to do something, maybe you that you didn't normally have to do or maybe to go out and give a presentation; whatever Talk about something extraordinary; something difference or the project was going to fail; All right. So, don't talk about a job description or 15. Tell me about a time when you reached a goal. So, what they really want to hear is that Most people don't even set goals; they just So, talk about how you set goals, talk about and then tell them how you applied that process towards achieving that goal. 16. Why did you leave your last job? Now, there's probably a lot of reasons. I mean, maybe you got fired, maybe you got there and you quit or maybe you just got bored But one of the best reasons to explain why challenges. That's really what they want to hear. They don't really want to hear that you got But hey, if you were fired, just tell them; I was let go from my last job because maybe I just wasn't delivering to the level they just eliminated the position. your reasons for transitioning from one job And ideally, what they're looking for is that more opportunities, greater responsibilities. So, don't lie about why you transition from If you're laid off, tell then you got laid If you got fired, you got fired. But ideally, what they want to hear is you the next. And they're hoping that you'd say something I kind of just outgrew it and I was looking that over there and I had more opportunities That's what they want to hear. 17. What are your strengths? or What So, this is another great opportunity for What are you really good at? Are you really good at leading? Are you good at designing? Are you good at managing people? You know, whatever it is. But key here is you want to tie it to what So, you probably have a lot of great strengths; want to tie your strengths to what they're So, take that job description and read it of what they're looking for and then try to really help out? Where can you help out the best? And those would be your greatest strengths. Relate those back to them in the interview, accomplish and why you are a good fit and for this like no one else. 18. What are you most proud of? Now, let me tell you what they don't want They don't want to hear that you're a proud What they want to hear is what did you proud contributions to maybe society, the past a What are you most proud of? Where did you make a difference? What did you make a difference in someone's What specifically? Why are you proud? What have you done? And being proud could just be simply, I got it from Stanford. Thats just the highlight of my life. And it doesn't have to be super great; it's But keep it business related or career related don't really want to hear about how proud birth to a new child. I mean, that those are great; those are beautiful But that's not what they're looking for in So, keep it career minded. 19. Describe what you do in your current job. Now, don't give them a rundown of all your Give them a rundown of the things you do that In some cases, maybe only 30 percent of what they're looking for someone to do in this So, just talk about that 30 percent or 50 But talk about what you do as it's related That's what they want to hear in your answer. 20. What is your management style? Now, they're not going to ask this question But if you're going in for a team lead position, going to ask you; what is your management What they're really testing for is; do you Have you really managed enough people? Have you been managing long enough in your And whatever your style is it's irrelevant. I mean, if you're a micromanager or you're or whatever it is. But be genuine in what makes you a good manager to manage this way. And give some examples. Talk them through some of your management and why you believe in your method of managing. And why it's effective and why it works for That's really what they want to hear. They don't really care what your actual style experience. Because the people who have not managed before, So, if I'm interviewing a manager and I ask you're like, Well, I don't know. That So, I want to hear what you've done, how you've that way and why you feel it's effective. 21. Tell me about a mistake that you made. Now, they don't want to hear about a mistake You want to keep this career related and you put black toner in where the blue toner went Give them something to chew on. Give them a mistake where you made that you up and then what you did to solve it. What did you do to recover from that mistake? Because people are going to make mistakes. We all make mistakes, I make mistakes, but Do you make mistakes and dump them on other That's what they want to hear. So, walk them through a time where you screwed and then walk them through what you did to was okay. But again, that's a behavior question; situation Walk them through just a quick little scenario 22. What are you passionate about? Now, if you think about this, it is like, things. can go. I'd like to line my answer with the company's it is and I like my passion to be consistent I might be passionate about other things too But I should also be passionate about this And what this is this is doing is this is weed out candidates who aren't aligned with For example, let's say you're interviewing If you're not passionate about animals and not aligned with this company's values and But if you go in there to a company that makes I just love animals. I have lots of animals. I have lots of kitty cats and dogs and I just Now, you're aligning yourself with their culture Because when you're passionate about what the core values and that's the kind of person Makes sense; right? That's pretty easy. 23. What do you know about our company? And you better know something. You should do some research on the company I mean, unless it's like a really big company pretty easy to get some information about But for a lot of us, we're just interviewing So, you want to do some research. You want to research that company every which Try to find articles that have been written write ups on them or just even local newspapers. But do your research and try to find out things recognized for. Don't just say, Well, I hear you guys are than that. Find out that maybe they are a company that thousand pairs to some homeless shelters and And so, then you can go in there and say, people. And I know that you guys donated a thousand I think that's a beautiful thing and that's really cares about society and other people. 24. How did you learn about this job? Now, this one is pretty easy. You can say, I found it online or A But that's not really what they're looking What they want to know is what got you excited So, maybe you were looking online and you about it; you read the description, you read that excited me. That's what they want Whether you found it online, you heard it let him know what got you excited and passionate to be a part of that job or that company and goals and mission. That's what they're looking for. They don't want to just hear, Yeah, I found going to do. You go into the interview and they're like, Well, I found it online. Dig deeper, tell them where you found it, I was excited about it. It got me excited and I couldn't wait to apply. What are your salary requirements? For whatever reason, this question freaks a number that's too high in fear of falling They also don't want to give a number that's They want to find that midpoint, but they So, there's a couple things you can do. If it's a fairly common type of job, you can get an idea of what that position is paying But chances are you already have a fair idea. What I'd like to do; best way to answer What is to simply give them a range. So, let's say you were making $70 thousand position is in the 75 or 80 range or maybe Give them a range say, thousand. you kind of cover the low end (thats like have a high end that's got some room that a little bit higher as well. That's all there is to it. But giving them a range that works for you; So, if this job only pays $50 thousand and range is between 65 and 85 thousand or yourself out of the range. But what's the point in continuing this job willing to pay 50 and you're used to make You kind of have to balance that out as to that usually spans about $20 thousand and 26. How do you deal with pressure? Now, this is a behavioral question somewhat So, you want to talk about a situation that was really tense and the action that you took the result and what happened. Now, most people, when they get asked this They just say, Well, you know and of how they deal with pressure. And that's fine; that's something you should Describe some of the first things that you that kind of know came out of the blue and But you want to follow that up with an example It's a way that they could see you in action pressure all the time. Here's how I deal with it. That's what dealt with it. What have you done? Give us some proof. I mean, anybody can say they can handle pressure, done this before. Give me some examples. So, it's sort of a behavioral question in 27. Are you open to relocating? This one's up to you. But what they're really fishing for is are Now, if you're like dead set against it; let's And if someone asked me, Are you interested No, not at all. I'm not moving. I have I have too much here. I have family here. I have a house here, so I'm not interested But for other people, maybe they're a little commitments to where they're at. So, they might say, What did you have in mind? You answer the question, but with a question. That way you can get a little bit more detail. I mean, maybe they say, Well, are you interested Yeah. What do you have in mind? and say, Well, looking for someone to fill. want to go to Alaska. So, get the details on what they mean by relocating. And if you're not open to it, just say, Not them. But what they're really doing is they're just they do offer you this position that there's And maybe the office that you're interviewing now. So, this office is interviewing for maybe or in another country. Another possibility is they may be planning So, maybe they're going to close their plant it to San Diego California. But they're not going to do that for two years, relocating. So, that's why you want to just follow up 28. What is your dream job? Tell them what you love doing; what are you Now, if your dream job is totally different you might want to shift things over a little for. But that's the root of this question is they that you want to be doing. And you just simply tell them; what gets you to be doing that. And that's really the root of the dream job from here; inside your heart. It's what makes you really excited. You love getting up every morning; you just And whether it's work in an animal shelter, of people; whatever it is that you're passionate back then. Now, if what you want to be doing is completely you might want to balance that out and think If you say, and helping animals and rescue dogs, but this or whatever; I don't know. You're not aligned. You see how they're kind of dissimilar. So, try to align your passions with their That's the key to answering that question. 29. Why are you changing careers? So, all they're really looking for is; what what are you looking for in a new career that It's as simple as that. I mean, why else do people change careers? Because they're getting tired of what they for them anymore. It's not getting them excited to wake up in of fulfillment. So, what is going to be fulfilling about this It's all I want to hear. So, that's the one key thing that most people They just say, So, I'm looking for something new. Now, you want to say; Tell them what you loved about your old job. But after a while, it just wasn't is engaging; It didn't fill me up inside; it didn't make And working in that job, I've kind of realized Whatever that is. And that should be what this new company is So, talk about the transition; what made you how that faded away. Naturally, it's just human nature for us to We want some variety in our life. So, we want to move into something new. It's best if you don't talk about money. I don't really like responses that say, my old job, so I thought I'd do this.&quot; Dont make it about money. Make it about what's in here; in your heart. What made you passionate about your old job fill you up anymore, the variety wasn't there over here in this new job and doing these And if you can, take that one step farther I've even done some volunteer work in this day and I just love doing this kind of stuff. And I'd really like to be doing it for you. Last question. And I made it the last one for a reason because going to ask you and they're going to say, And that's your opportunity to find out more going or whatever is important for you. Don't just ask them questions to ask questions. Ask them questions that will help you determine So, don't just ask some stupid questions about that just don't really matter. Ask them questions that're going to help you work there. That could be salary, that could be position, that could be a certain project, that could to you. But some good common questions to ask are 1. What is the next step; like where do we go It is like, So, what are the next steps? Are you going to have second interviews? When can I expect to hear back from you? 2. What would you expect me to accomplish in Now, this is a great question because it forces So, they have to think, what would we want him to do? you and hopefully, they come back with a response see. Now, if they come back with anything else, about you. So, then that's your opportunity to keep selling now. If they can't visualize you in the role in Keep that in mind. 3. How long does your hiring process take? So, this is just a way to gauge them on where Is this going to take a week, three weeks, And some companies do; some companies will You might be the first candidate and they Well, we're going to bring you back for that we want to pursue you. in a lot of different ways; you dont have But only ask it if it's important to you and your hiring process is. So, that's one of the key things with any Don't ask questions where they've already of the interview. 4. What is the key to succeeding in this role? It's a great question. You're basically saying, And they should just flat out tell you. But it's a question that they want to hear being successful there. You are interested in helping them grow. You are interested in helping them achieve That's what they want to hear. 5. What will the day-to-day routine be like? Now, they may have already told you this; But it's a fair question to ask just to get Now, I've asked this question before. When I went on a job interview, I asked what And they said, Well, we normally work about And I said, What about 8-hour days? 10 hours. I said, Do you get paid for of the pleasure of working here. You get to work a couple extra hours. I wasn't interested in working 10 to 12-hour It was just my situation at the time. I couldn't devote that kind of time. But you can see how that question helped me were looking for. And it's a disqualifying question. Remember, like I said, you make a decision about whether you want So, for me, I want to know about what the If the day-to-day responsibilities are all interest me. So, that disqualified that employer for me. So, that's what these questions are. All of these questions that you should ask to either qualified this position or this And if you're just getting a whole bunch of for you, then you pretty much say, or they're doing all the things that I want to Either way, that's up to you, but that's how Alright, that is the Top 30 Job Interview in your responses. Now, before your next interview, grab a copy This book has over 140 different questions any interview. I mean, I covered 30 questions that you might on the interviewer. But this guide has over 140 questions in it. It's got over 40 behavioral questions in it, behavioral questions using that STAR method We talk about a Situation or a Task and Action This guide goes a lot deeper into that behavioral can in this video. It also covers all of the interview questions I've had some people who bought this book of the questions from your guide. I've as their hiring procedures guide to hire people. Now, this book is an e-book. You can download it from jobinterviewtools.com; It's like 47 bucks. You can also get the hard copy; this physical I'll ship it out to you in the mail. That's a different option. It also comes in audio and video. So, if you like to learn by downloading audio to them or watching videos, I've got that This is the only job interview guide book hard copy, audio and video. But more than anything, it's going to give are looking for and it's going to give you So, I already told you what employers are is going to tell you how to frame your answer. So, maybe you're struggling, maybe you understand don't know how to frame your answers in a and they resonate with an employer. This guide is going to show you how to do It's going to take it to the next level for So, from the next interview you have, just or two before your interview is going to kind just going to sound so much more confident, in your next job interview. And they're going to see a lot more from you Because you're probably here, watching this interviews and maybe they didn't go well for maybe you've been interviewing for six months really just getting depressed and it kind I understand. I mean, showing up for a job interview and and they keep telling you, No, no, no. But a way to recover from that is to show Be your best. Be in the perfect state. Be in a perfect state of mind. Make sure you have done all of the work, all that you could possibly do to prepare for So, when you go in there, you're delivering your best. Take it to that level. So, whether they hire you or not, you feel can take that away from you. Nobody. That's how you win and that's how you build. So, every interview you go on; whether you Learn a little bit from each interview. So, if you fail four or five interviews, don't Because employers, they're fickle. Out of 10 employers, maybe three or four of at all. And maybe that job was just set aside for So, just because you didn't get the offer, your skills, your experience, your passion. Because when you do; when you let those interviews And it beats you down and it beats you down And then you just kind of show up and you Don and I'm here for a job interview. you go on. Remember what we talked about in the beginning About the 7-38-55 rule? Body language; 55 percent. You need to be alive. You need to have good posture, sit up straight, And then 38 percent; voice, tone. Express yourself, enunciate your words. Don't just sit there and talk like this; be And then, like I said, 7 percent is just content; So, you could take some pretty mediocre answers and your vocal tones and your inflection and and people would be excited about it because body and you're presenting yourself and they I mean, who are you going to get attracted this or somebody who's really full of life, passionate ways. That's how you succeed. That's how you succeed in the interview. That's all I have for you today. I know this was a super long video; longer help you a lot. So, good luck on your next interview and I'll Bye now.