One of the greatest challenges of space travel is the universe are beyond vast. And one of the do not see aliens everywhere including our own are simply too great for anyone to reasonably misguided because the universe actually allows leaving known physics. The issue though sacrifice time. You must always give something or another are going to end up in the future. exercise in moving into the future. It's called extremes of physics. The first way to to travel at relativistic speeds. Some will but that's a unicorn, we don't know how But within known physics there is a way. that gives a rather odd loophole to the distance you can get into a spaceship and accelerate near the speed of light, but if you could do pass outside your spaceship, and thus massive cross most of the observable universe within your lifetime. The problem is that if you do with no way to connect back to your own time. that and we're not close to that capability, it. And this also means that crossing a galaxy at amount of time in your frame of reference. But as you've got to leave something behind. In leave behind is time. The universe always costs. travel as we know and love it. Here, you it takes time to get to a destination. If that to leave a lot of time behind. With current Starshot to send a group of microprobes connected laser. We can do this right now with our tech, for us to reach up to 20 percent the speed of years depending on speed and then do a flyby. A will not care about the passage of time because This can be scaled up to a much more capable of course is the concept of a von Neumann probe effect a 3d printer that can use the raw materials of itself indefinitely into the future, and at sub in the galaxy within a few million years, the also shrinks distances. Well, a functionally intelligent, isn't going to care about the ones that only live on average 80 years. Such ahead of it. Trillions upon trillions of years. there is actually a further question about them could well be scientific, though it could also advantageous to station a kill probe in star technological civilization appears that could This is a scary solution to the Fermi Paradox see alien civilizations everywhere is because accidentally and irresponsibly approach a to the police civilization, such as some way to aware of yet, and won't be until it's too late. be just that. Study the life of the universe. It's interest in us, we're just too primitive and they very compelling however based on our own activity. the most primitive life on earth, the microbes. so we take interest in the very simple ourselves. find bacteria analogues that are not related to goes, this would rank among the most important easily be that even highly advanced aliens like and it might be that much more interesting if it Such arguments cast aside the notion that highly are inquisitive and scientific, and pursue the they find it no matter how advanced or primitive life of any flavor, and that may be the case for is resolved by life or intelligence simply it would be of great scientific interest to isn't necessarily stupid or they wouldn't be where you still want to know whether you are alone in to post von Neumann probes in any system that has and then just monitor it across the This would interestingly lead to a weird If such a probe exists in the solar system then history of planet earth, think photographs of and maybe even advanced data on physics that we us to a quantum leap in scientific understanding advanced to understand it, it hands us that data taken genetic samples of species from the past inside of a positive contact with an alien But there are also negative possibilities. we don't understand that destroys us, an alien bomb they don't understand right when they become species of the milky way. Have it crash on their destroys them. Or it may not even be a bomb, to ruin or a return to the stone age. You species management. That too is a solution to allowed by an invisible overlord civilization level of overall technology only to do repeated the first technological civilizations to arise Regardless, however, von Neumann probes have of a star system in space to self-replicate or 3d or comets or moons or something of that nature. odyssey Stanley Kubick and Arthur C. Clarke turning it into an artificial star. That's basis, but that's what the monoliths ultimately though they did seem to be multipurpose. If such the best option, it's a whole lot of hydrogen and deep that you reach the core where you can't than gasses like hydrogen condensed into liquid a gas giant and its gravity well and dense gasses. they are present in a star system. Yes, they and asteroids may do, at least for but an asteroid does not have the resources So it might be that von Neumann self-replicators or those like Titan that have abundant As an aside, we obviously know that earth has oil, in general, and that oil is produced through the be ruled out yet that Mars, if it had abundant Many jokes are made that if we ever found oil on the reality is that transporting oil from Mars to expensive by the time it got here that there are But it might be useful for a Mars colony, at though maybe not so much for energy production but atmosphere. That's the weird benefit, if you carbon dioxide as a byproduct of manufacturing, up already cold Mars which already has a thin change on that planet just means terraforming. if a von Neumann probe wanted to use earth for its more interested in the resources of earth than it planet land isn't all that different, though there The asteroid will give you more things like the you want aluminum, well it's very abundant in the cans from it. But is there a better option? The oceans contain a lot of resources, have everything from metals to heavy water to oil They are very rich and largely untapped. Case of manganese nodules that we've barely touched of active interest for prospecting, however it's submarine in the oceans were doing that, and have those would have been depleted and they are natural and are just sitting there and a source it's ever been tapped by anyone previous to us. simple. Work with the materials you have available be an amazing machine indeed, that could mine, but a cell phone would be equally ages. But this would lead to an odd effect. where in the solar system or beyond are from system a meteorite is from through that method, why we have a moon. It has very similar isotope off earth in a massive impact event. The isotopes interstellar even more so. The thing is, if you're they would not really be distinguishable from they were manufactured, but you couldn't really Neumann probe versus our own technology. repairing self replicating von Neumann that's been here since the beginning of life originally and let it take its course as a form existence it's taken too many cosmic ray hits and behaves irrationally and not quite on point. Arthur C. Clarke's statement that any sufficiently magic, and thus may appear to behave irrationally. science fiction author with this scenario, but I physics as we know them. Perhaps not very likely, scenario resembles. Interesting indeed. Thanks for listening! I am futurist and science worried about a day when it's the aliens hiding reason we don't get a SETI signal is because knows about our existence, and that particular that nobody ever contacts us. Very disconcerting favorite online book retailer and subscribe to my the interesting, weird and unknown aspects