- [Kevin] On November 15th, 1926, the National Broadcasting Company hit the airwaves for the first time. At this point, broadcast networks were and while impressive, the process was not without its issues. NBC's programming was transmitted via telephone and then sent via radio A major difficulty was communication between the network headquarters Some networks utilized a telephone line that and a telegraph line that transmitted memos between employees. NBC did not have the latter, so when it came time for to manually switch between programs, they were often unsure was going to end, resulting that affected the listening experience. Almost immediately after its debut, NBC was looking for a Rather than spend time and money running telegraph NBC needed to send the was going to conclude through This message needed to be clear enough that the affiliate stations but not disruptive to those An NBC announcer, Phillips Carlin, had previously been the announcer of &quot;The B.F. Goodrich which was introduced Carlin suggested that a short at the end of programming, signaling to the affiliate while offering a pleasant The original NBC melody which would be played by the announcer at the end of the program. This sequence proved too and after a few years of experimenting, the melody would be simplified (gentle chiming music) While not the first musical the NBC chimes was the first and was the first iconic sound signature in the United States. As more radio and, eventually, entered the media landscape many would try to create Most often, the branding before being refreshed, and the sound signatures would often not be themes representing the network as a whole, but rather a specific programming block, such as a theme for news or sports. (rousing orchestral music) Still, there were a few network themes that became permanent. The NBC chimes are still used today, 90 years after being introduced. (gentle chiming music) In 1984, Nickelodeon debuted a theme sung by jazz musician Eugene Pitt and produced by roots Nick, Nick, Nick, Nick, Nickelodeon - [Kevin] This sound signature and has been remixed countless times in the 40 years since being introduced. (bright upbeat music) In 1993, HBO debuted the HBO static angel. The branding was created by a team led by HBO's head of and the logo and short music cue still appear with HBO original programming nearly three decades later. (gentle choir music) The NBC chimes, the Nickelodeon mnemonic, and the HBO static angel are recognizable to generations of viewers. However, there is another network theme that fits this description, a theme that has been and has achieved an iconic This is the Disney Channel theme. The theme comprises four notes. Four notes that debuted Four notes that dominated and peak in popularity. Four notes that are still being The Disney Channel theme was created by... The Disney Channel theme was created by... The Disney Channel theme was created by... (tense suspenseful music) I have no idea. We should be good. Can you hear me okay? - [Andrew] I can hear you great. - [Kevin] Okay, great. Andrew Barth Feldman, Sis, Damien Haas. You are a star on stage and screen, and you have appeared in a - That's right. - [Kevin] You are a star of stage- - I am. - [Sis] Am. - [Kevin] You are a Disney Channel fan. - Some would say. - [Kevin] Say you have - I have been on Disney Channel, yes. - [Kevin] I invited you here so here we go. (majestic contemporary orchestral music) (majestic contemporary So this is my question. Do you know The Disney Channel theme? - I feel like I do. (laughs) - [Kevin] Do you know the - It makes me think like &quot;Hi, I'm Hillary Duff, &quot;and you're watching the Disney Channel.&quot; And then it'd be like... (Damien sighs) - I mean, it's, &quot;Hi, you're That's the theme. But- - [Kevin] Not the theme. That is some theme, and - It is there? There is one? - [Kevin] Yes, there is a theme. - Oh, my God. Dun, dun, dun, dun - [Kevin] That's right. You got it. - I know. - Is it like Wah-ba-ba-ba or something like that? - [Kevin] That is really close. - Okay. Yeah. (lively upbeat music) - Yeah, of course! Of course, of course, of - [Kevin] Isn't it weird that we don't know who wrote that theme? - No. - [Kevin] (laughs) Okay. - (laughs) We don't know who - [Kevin] Yes, we do. - I don't. - [Kevin] But you could - Sure, and I'm sure we could know if we wanted to know who wrote the- - But we can't. Nobody knows. So what I'm going to try to do is a legitimate investigation. - Okay. - [Kevin] Where I try to figure - Great. - I'm catching you at such a crazy time in this journey that you're on, I can't wait to see where it goes. (upbeat music) (mysterious eerie music) - [Kevin] I've always been fascinated with television programming, specifically programming breaks. The content before, after, Not the commercials, but the bumpers, network identifications, and It is a fascinating liminal space, full of subtle reassurances. &quot;Here is where you are, here &quot;and here's what's next. &quot;Don't leave. Don't go anywhere. &quot;Don't worry. We'll be right back.&quot; At the peak of television's popularity, these breaks even acted as to the point that, absent of You can watch an episode of &quot;Full House&quot; or &quot;Family Matters&quot; on DVD, but without the TGIF there's a key component that is missing. You can watch &quot;All that&quot; or &quot;Clarissa Explains but it is a fundamentally removed from the SNICK branding. There is no channel where this symbiosis is more apparent than Disney Channel. Unlike its rivals, Cartoon Disney Channel does not have with content produced by Instead, the channel uses this time in a variety of creative ways. This programming, which has been watched by millions of people is surrounded and accented But how do you trace back their origins? Where do you even begin? (alarm blaring) (alarm clock beeping) (alarm clock button thuds) (tense mysterious music) (tense mysterious music continues) (tense mysterious music continues) (Kevin yawns) (Kevin sighs) (CD player lid clunking) (CD player lid clicks) (soft thoughtful music) All right, let's establish our timeline. On April 18th, 1983, The Disney Channel debuted As we've discussed a lot on DefunctTV, The Disney Channel was originally following the successful model created by HBO a decade earlier. Subscribers of The Disney Channel were treated to reruns of and shorts, along with a and some cool bumpers. The main The Disney Channel in front of a television with scanlines. This would often be accompanied that became an icon of the The channel did not have a so various instrumentals were used in the bumpers. (lively upbeat music) - [Announcer] The Disney Channel. - [Kevin] In 1986, just The Disney Channel was While the logo stayed the same, the tone of the channel transitioning from its original to one that was more This came with a new series that featured the disembodied performing some sort of task or activity that resulted in the creation These bumpers were brilliantly and also, a bit unsettling. There's something disturbing about only seeing Mickey's and never hearing his voice. In one of these bumpers, and you think, &quot;Surely, &quot;where we see his face.&quot; But no, the photos just come scary stuff. This bumper is also terrifying, but it's definitely on purpose this time. Mickey is having a nightmare in which his hand is and then The Disney Channel logo itself. The hand then runs down a hallway and all of those bumper's hands begin to attack this bumper's hand. And one of the attacking bumpers is the bumper we are watching. The bumper ends with which is a total cliche. But otherwise, the bumper It bumps. Many of the musical cues in but The Disney Channel still However, an original song was created to promote the channel, and they did not hold back on the energy. The Disney Channel is one big family - [Kevin] This rather long musical number culminated in families singing &quot;Disney's our channel,&quot; and among the choir was everyone's favorite Disney character. Our channel Disney's our channel - [Kevin] This song often ended with one of the most violent logo reveals in the history of television. (explosion blasting) A few years later in the early '90s, more channel IDs in the except rather than puppetry, and instead of featuring Mickey's hands, this batch was from the In 1995, The Disney the scanline portion of its logo, opting to just use the text This would not last long, though the channel would have its transitioning from a premium cable service to a basic cable channel. Disney would drop the &quot;The&quot; becoming simply Disney Channel. A new logo was created with that various characters This refresh also gave Disney Channel its most distinct musical theme yet. (bright upbeat music) These branding changes were just part of a massive transition Up to this point, most of The Disney Channel's was 27 minutes, but after the channel would transition 22-minute programs. This meant that Disney would be phased out and and also, that, for every the channel would need eight Disney Channel assured that they would not be filling which was somewhat true. Disney Channel would take from outside companies, instead, opting to advertise being sold throughout the Disney Company. This turned Disney Channel seamlessly promoting its and theme parks. However, it would be a disservice to call these tie-ins simply commercials, as they were formatted in such a way that they could be viewed For instance, within a year of the Disney Channel began airing a program called &quot;Movie Surfers.&quot; &quot;Movie Surfers&quot; gave at the newest Disney feature film, with child actors serving Ideas such as these were brilliant and a sign of what was to come. But at this point in the late '90s, Disney Channel was still very and experimentation, and Coming out of the switch to basic cable, Disney Channel created three First, Playhouse Disney was with programming aimed at preschoolers. Second, Vault Disney was television programs, and shorts. Vault Disney would air at night and throughout the early morning. Finally, over a year after the rebrand, a third programming block was an afternoon block aimed named Zoog Disney. Zoog Disney had its own and even its own world. The Zoogs were a group of robots that lived inside of the bits and bites between the Zoog, in the Zeether and your TV set - [Kevin] Their entire backstory is explained in their theme song, including the odd detail since the birth of fire. We've been here since - [Kevin] And since it each character was introduced in a rap. My name's Joe, I'm a Zoog Got a place just for you - [Kevin] The Zoog was an attempt to appeal to the tweens and teens of the late '90s that were becoming more in this thing called the interweb. It also served the dual purpose of promoting the tie-in website. The lineup for Zoog Disney with Disney needing to syndicate shows such as &quot;Growing Pains&quot; while it built its own tween programming. Though Disney really the seventh season of &quot;Growing Pains&quot; because this was the one that featured a young Leonardo DiCaprio, which allowed the channel to brand an entire week of - [Announcers] Oh, Leo! - [Leo] Uh, yeah. - [Kevin] In 2000, Disney of the 1997 logo, removing and giving it a more modern hip look. The Zoogs were also given a CG redesign with more human-looking characters. And Disney Channel even and action figures. A new sound signature was also but it was less of a musical mnemonic and more two melodic shouts. (lively upbeat music) Yeah - [Kevin] With the premieres and &quot;Lizzie McGuire&quot; in 2001, Disney Channel was on its as a major competitor in which at the time was By 2002, Disney Channel was The three programming block model might have helped with the but it was no longer needed. The block with the most Playhouse Disney, would remain. The Vault Disney block as Disney Channel was going The Zoog Disney branding while most of its content would remain. &quot;Movie Surfers&quot; would continue and more interstitial programs in a similar vein were created. The previous movie block would become Disney Channel Movie, with a brand new song that would become iconic Let's watch a Disney Channel movie - [Kevin] Perhaps most significantly, the rebranding would bring a new logo and a new channel theme. (bright upbeat music) These additions first appeared (upbeat electro-pop music) So I figure the first step in finding out who wrote the Disney Channel theme is finding when the theme first appeared. The Disney Channel Wiki sometime in September of 2002, so let's watch some ads - [Announcer] Kids like you on Disney Channel. - It does help to talk about September 11, 'cause you know you get out- (computer keyboard taps) (Kevin sighs) - And you get to be heard. - It was such a traumatic event that, I mean, how could you forget? - If you had heard me last year, that's all I would've been talking about. - It's definitely a healing process. - [Announcer] Disney - [Kevin] Oh, thank God. I really thought that was going to be the first appearance of the theme. This segment, this I feel like I've seen where the teen stars of the but usually, it's about friends or the homework they pretend to do, but it's not about 9/11, usually. So after a bit more research, I found a lot more of these 9/11 PSAs, most of which were from right after the September 11th attacks in 2001, and these have been recirculated recently. About a year ago, there looking back on these PSAs, but none of those look back on the ones that were a year later, which visually are a lot less patriotic, which makes the transition far more jarring. Anyways. - [Announcer] When you give, Check out Disney Adventures - You can make a difference. Kids can make a big difference. - [Kevin] So this is still the old logo, and I haven't heard the new theme yet, but I also haven't seen So in the timeline here, it seems this is after but before the new assets I'll watch a few more from - [Announcer] Kids like you on Disney Channel. - One of the positive (computer keyboard taps) - [Kevin] All right, I don't think the theme is in One comment does say, &quot;It's awesome you got a September &quot;from before the retool/logo change.&quot; So that makes me optimistic and that September 2002 is Not sure if that's when the Also, huge thank you to archivists that upload programming breaks. These are specifically I view it as legitimately These are time capsules that (lively upbeat music) Yeah - [Kevin] That's the old theme. So this is still before the retool. Gosh, darn it. See if there's any of those - I think that kids should just be friends with their and not worry about where they came from or who their parents are. - I agree. just because of what - A lot of my friends, because of the whole - [Kevin] Oh, my gosh! I thought this was gonna be a normal one. &quot;This was before Disney &quot;a few days later on October And then Evan's Media Archive says, &quot;Nope. &quot;They changed it on September 30th, 2002.&quot; There's no way somebody uploaded something from September 30th, 2002 is there? Oh, my gosh. - [Cartoon Character] Like this. - [Kevin] This is September 30th, 2002, and that's the new Playhouse We're so close. - [Announcer] &quot;Boy Meets World.&quot; - [Kevin] Wait. - [Announcer] After - Wait. - [Announcer] On Disney Channel. - [Kevin] That was it. That was the four-note mnemonic. We found it. So the new logo and four-note theme debuted the week of September 30th, 2002, but we're still missing a I don't see any of the wand IDs. I don't see them drawing anything. The Disney Channel channel identification, or wand IDs, as they are are a series of bumpers that stating their name and the before uttering the classic line. - You're watching Disney Channel. - [Kevin] It's almost unnecessary because they are by far the most iconic and recognizable aspect of Disney Channel that exists outside of the programming, and they're one of the most in the history of television. For broadcast networks, channel IDs such as these Stations must air an and sign-off, as well as - [Announcer] This is station KMBC, channel nine, Kansas City. - [Kevin] This is because uses public airwaves and is subject to the set by the Federal Cable channels, on the and instead of using and satellites. So while cable channels, don't legally have to air there are still many might create these types of bumpers. For children's television, the FCC mandates that between the programming This is due to the fact that that can't always tell and a commercial for Floam has begun. This is what initially famous bumpers in children's television, including the famous &quot;After from ABC. A channel identification and before the programming can also qualify as a reasonable Another common use for channel is that they provide a buffer before and after the commercial block. This way, if the beginning or is cut off due to a glitch or an error, it will only cut into the This prevents the channel from losing any revenue Another more obvious is the benefit to the viewer. While today it is almost before the advent of modern viewers often had no way they were watching as they so having someone say it out loud was actually pretty helpful. Perhaps the most important is branding, and this is the true genius of In the course of just a few seconds, the channel was able to one of their programs, the channel's name, and the channel's logo After comparing this to the chaos and randomness of Zoog Disney, it is no wonder why these idents were so successful in which is why it's so surprising that there are no wand IDs from late 2002, or I should say almost no wand IDs. (intense upbeat music) Who is this kid? This nobody was the first person to draw the Disney Channel logo. He's also really good. He is a pro. Look at those circles. It seems that this kid, whose bumper aired throughout late 2002, was the first person to appear even if only technically. The first batch of wand would not air until June of 2003, eight months after the rebrand. Prior to their debut, on a different set of channel IDs that were far more elaborate in scope and used an impressive amount of visual effects for the time. Each bumper featured children to make an ordinary situation magical, before returning back to reality as the Disney Channel logo was revealed. Like the other bumpers from this refresh, these idents also ended (lively upbeat music) Watching these back to back, it's interesting to note how They all have different and progressions. Often, the only common element which also varies slightly (lively upbeat music) These imagination IDs would albeit less often, after the The initial batch of wand IDs featured such stars as Hillary Raven-Symone for &quot;That's So Raven,&quot; and America Ferrera for the &quot;Gotta Kick It Up!&quot; This batch also included one for Animated Lizzie, and another for Kim Possible, It is hard to properly explain just how popular these bumpers were. It seemed that every child desperately wanted to do one. - Me and my friend had and on the commercials, you can see where they have those little And me and my friend like to play around. So like, &quot;I'm Selena. We're We like to draw it all the time. - [Kevin] They never had you do a wand ID, despite you being on the channel? - No, and I could talk about my disappointment with that all day. That's all I wanted to do. That was all I wanted to do. Because if I ever flipped the channel, odds are I would see like, &quot;What's up? &quot;I'm Juggy Brodelteen &quot;and you're watching the Disney Channel,&quot; and do the little do-do-do-dutes. The closest I ever got was they had my zombie character host, like, &quot;It's Disney Halloween - [Kevin] Oh, so you had a bumper? - I had a bumper, but it was with my and was co-hosted by someone So we never did the Mickey. It was just always like, you know, &quot;Coming up next is whatever.&quot; And I'd be like (yelling). And they'd be like, &quot;That's (Kevin laughs) - [Kevin] These bumpers with Disney Channel fans, old and new In 2019, the DisneyNOW that allowed users to And at the 2022 D23 Disney fan convention, there was even a photo op where The wand IDs have even outside of just those reaching the true indicator The original batch with fans editing the footage to display the stars' showcasing just how bad what appears to be a fairly simple logo. Returning to the initial batch that was aired on the channel, the clever editing around these I think the worst one has who even in the edited version But to be fair, he probably - If you had heard me last year, that's all I would've been talking about - [Kevin] I had seen these but I just thought of something Where did this footage come from? These are obviously outtakes and not taken from the original idents. Sure enough, I was able to and there are a few things First, this line from Hillary Duff. - Oh, it's mouse ears? - [Director] Yeah, it's - [Kevin] It seems that the stars were not sure what they were which makes you wonder what Most likely they were told and this was just her noticing that they were mouse Hillary Duff is one of the and the first to ever do a wand ID, and she has no point of reference for what the final version will look like and has no concept of just how iconic these bumpers will become. This is the burden of the trailblazer and the solitude of the trendsetter. - They made us do it, like, 900 times. (laughs) I think had lost all Plus, I was, like, a I was like, &quot;What are they - [Kevin] Another thing I are the same ones used in the Express Yourself bumeper/9/11 PSAs. This either means that the channel had a wardrobe for the stars whenever they were or that these were filmed Both are likely. Finally, and most (majestic orchestral music) That is a slate. It is used for sound synchronization Clapper boards typically feature as well as the name of the and the director. It's difficult to make out, but the top name is labeled &quot;DIR&quot; and the bottom is labeled &quot;CAM.&quot; This means that someone named G. Owen directed at least the production of the first batch of wand IDs. Despite not airing until June of 2003, it is safe to assume that these wand IDs were actually shot with the in 2002. The actors' clothes are the and they were all part of The Disney Channel Wiki were filmed along with specifically in August of 2002. If true, this makes perfect The channel probably set October as the month the refresh would kick in. As we discovered, many of these changes actually debuted on September 30th, but that was the Monday of so this still tracks. The only part of the August shot that was time-sensitive was the 9/11 PSAs, which were designed to during the one-year anniversary of the attacks that September. The post-production of these segments was likely expedited to meet the deadline, and the channel made with the old logo. This is almost too perfect. These 9/11 PSAs were designed to only air in September of 2002, as all of the stars are referencing the one-year anniversary specifically. These would never air again, so only these would retain the old logo and would never need an updated version. The other Express Yourself ads were definitely shot at the same time, were designed to air at all end with the new have a very different - Ooh, I love shoes! - [Announcer] Express yourself. - Assuming G. Owen directed the wand IDs from pre to post-production, then they must know who wrote the music, and therefore, the theme. This is the most solid lead I have, but there is just one problem, I don't know their first name. And searching for G. Owen, or any variation of, did I assume that the voice in and it sounds masculine, so I looked for Gregory, Gabriel, Gavin, Grant, Gerry, before eventually trying Gretel, Gwen, and I still feel like this I just cannot find the answer right now, so I'm going to have to go - [Kevin] Thank you for calling If you have any leads on the Disney Channel theme, please leave a message after the beep. - [Caller 1] Hey. Hey, Kevin. Yeah, I actually know who wrote the Disney Channel theme song. It was this guy. It was Joe. Yeah, it was Joe Mama. Joe Mama wrote the Disney So, yeah, hope that helps. - [Caller 2] Hey, I've got a tip. Why don't you start calling documentaries, you pretentious- - [Caller 3] Yo, Kevin. What's up, man? Hey, I heard you were researching Have you ever heard of the - [Kevin] The Mighty Mighty Bosstones are a ska band that was in 1983. The band was originally started All you need to know is that in 1997 the band released the hit single This is by far the most popular Mighty Mighty Bosstones song. And for our purposes, it's relevance is found heard throughout the track. Let me know if you hear anything familiar. (upbeat ska music) Yes, The Impression That I Get by the Mighty Mighty Bosstones seemingly features what would become the Disney Channel theme five years later. The riff does include the same notes, and the rhythm is similar, but this is only the The reason that I mention I think the composer of the theme stole from the Mighty Mighty Bosstones. It is also not because I think the theme was written by a Bosstonian. I mention this because on the Disney Channel theme online. And everywhere I seem to go, if there's discussion on these four notes, someone will bring up this song. So while I don't think this the Mighty Mighty Bosstones Although I am going to With that out of the way, let's see if we can find There are two major music that composers and artists join, and that's ASCAP and BMI, and they have a shared database. So if you want to license something, all you have to do is and search for the song and who wrote it, who has the Now, I'm not sure that the would've submitted to ASCAP and BMI, as Disney Channel owns it 100%, but it's the best lead I have right now. So let's search. You can search by title, you can search by publisher. But I'm just gonna type in Disney Channel and see what happens. Whoa. There are four pages. There are so many compositions. There are 77 results. I thought we'd have no results. Now I'm thinking we have too many. Okay, let's see what they give us. Arnheiter Theodore Linkfield. That's a great name. It just says Disney Channel. It doesn't tell you anything. It doesn't say the year. The composition is just Okay, here's another one We have at least publishers this time. Disney Luft Raus. Is that German? Air out. Air out. Like Disney Channel, is that what like a bumper's called? Like an air out? Okay, that's German Disney Channel. Okay, this is Japanese Disney Channel, Japan Central Music Limited. It's not Disney Channel 10th anniversary, because that would've been David Norland is credited for writing at least I mean, look at how many he made. But how do we verify Because these don't give much away. Okay, so these alternate titles are actually what the announcer is saying. So, &quot;And now back to.&quot; Yeah, so it says, &quot;And now back to.&quot; Right here. Sweet Niblets, Hannah Montana. I bet you I can find the And if it ends with the theme, David Norland wrote the theme. Okay, we got this. Let's do it. - [Announcer] Rock stardom? No biggie. New boy crushes? Whoa! Stop the presses! Catch the drama of Hannah - [Kevin] We're waiting for Sweet Niblets. - [Announcer] Hannah Miley? Oh, I know. Hang out with Hannah and right here on Disney Channel. Stick around, Hannah Montana will be right Let's get back to Hannah Montana. - [Kevin] Say sweet niblets. - [Announcer] Hannah Montana's next, part of Disney Channel's Summer of Stars. Don't go away, Hannah (Kevin groaning) On Disney Channel's Summer of Stars. Hannah Montana. Hannah Montana. Hannah Montana. Hannah Montana, all part of That So Sweet Hannah Montana. Hannah Montana. Sweet niblets! Hannah Montana- - [Kevin] Yes, we got it. But is the theme there? - [Announcer] Hannah on Disney Channel. - It is. It's there. Sweet niblets. Hannah David Richard Christopher Norland. Now I just gotta figure out how to get in touch with this guy. His website does not mention I'm 95% sure this is the David Norland that wrote for Disney Channel, and I found a way to contact him. I really hope he responds. (upbeat music) Good news, David Norland responded. Bad news, he did not write He started writing for so the mnemonic predated his involvement. However, I still asked if he would be willing to do an interview. Because he wrote many instrumentals using the four note theme, and he very well might know who wrote it. Another reason I'd love to speak with him is because he started writing When I saw that year, two Ribbon era. A common practice among those is to separate long spans of time and large amounts of more digestible eras. But how does one go about Sometimes it's more obvious than others. For instance, the history of China is most often told through its dynasties, and it is very clear when Disney's film history has into eras such as the and the most well known, While most breakdowns of explain the historical I find that these eras are and more by the quality of the films. Sometimes there is a historical such as the wartime era. But by the time you get the general reasoning these are the less good ones. Except for the one that you love. That's my favorite too. So what about Disney Channel? How is its history separated by the fans that study it like the Is it separated by TV shows, Surprisingly, the general is that Disney Channel history should be separated by the bumpers. This is not a-historical, as each change in bumper design typically coincided with other significant changes to the channel in terms of branding and strategy. Still, the nomenclature to the style of the bumpers. The era from 1983 to 1997 is typically labeled Early Beginnings, because most Disney Channel 1997 rebranding as the as they know it. 1997 to 2002 is an obvious era, and is sometimes labeled The Zoog Disney Era, or The Mickey TV Era. 2002 to 2007 is often for the way the logo during the bumpers. In 2007, the channel was retaining many elements with the main difference and bumpers that featured around the screen before This era is thus referred In 2010, the bumpers were Now placing the classic logo This was just after Disney Channel began the switch to high definition, allowing viewers to watch The original digital that little watermark in referred to as a network bug, was designed with the four by And probably looked a bit awkward moved out to the far corner while still being attached to the bottom. The same could be said for pretty much all of the bumpers since 2002. as the classic logo hugs in a way that would leave in a wide screen format. The new rounded square maintaining the design of the old logo, but placing it in a square that could be centered on the screen or placed equidistant from the corner. I imagine this entire era of television was annoying for those making bumpers, because consumers were still and channels were simul-casting in standard definition This meant that you would need to make your bumper in 16 by 9, but none of the critical elements could be pushed to the side. This resulted in a product that, when viewed in wide Because rather than for all of your titles, you actually had to put them in this box. This also made the wand IDs when broadcast in HD, but we did get to see the and he drew that logo way Good boy. In 2014, the rounded square era ended. And Disney Channel fans lost the logo that had been a staple of The new logo removed instead choosing to put ears The wand IDs remained with Instead of holding a giant glowing stick, the stars now held a wizard's wand. Instead of drawing the classic logo, the stars only drew the ears on the eye. And instead of being the stars were placed in In 2017, this changed and in 2018, the white as did the glow stick. These newer eras of Disney Channel had been separated into the social media era, and most recently the item age, because there's items in the bumpers. We can work on that So this leads to the obvious The answer is whichever But if you looked at just pure popularity, then the Disney Channel peaked during The Ribbon Era in 2007. This was helped in large of High School Musical 2, which was watched by 17.24 million people. This broke the record, not only for the most watched premier of a Disney channel original movie, but also the record for the most watched program premiere on cable ever. That's all of cable ever. It broke the record set the previous year by a Monday night football game, which itself broke a Ross Perot debate over NAFTA in 1993. It is obvious why High School Musical 2 was able to achieve this feat. The debate over NAFTA was an between two powerful political rivals, and Monday night football as it broadcasts the intensity High School Musical 2 was able to combine these two ratings winners by showcasing both the drama of sports as Rather than the pros and cons to controversial trade legislation, with Perot on the side of anti NAFTA and Gore on the side of pro NAFTA, High School Musical 2 showcases a debate as to whether high schooler Chad Danforth can or cannot dance. With Chad squarely on or as he says, &quot;I don't dance.&quot; And with theater kid Ryan Evans firmly on the side of pro dance, or in his words, &quot;I know you can.&quot; This back and forth captured America in a way that neither the NAFTA debate or Monday night football When Chad replies to Ryan's assertion that he knows that he can dance, Chad, like a bull whip, 17 million people watched this premiere. If you clicked on this video, It impacted some more than others. In 2007, Disney Channel had an average of 2.694 million viewers, which at the time was the largest audience in the history of cable. This was the peak in the As more television viewers, moved away from cable and to the internet, Disney channel's viewership And in 2021, the channel saw an average of only 233,000 viewers, a 90% loss from its peak in 2007. 2007, the year that the Disney the year that Disney Channel the year that Disney Channel hired a new composer to write A composer that just - Hi, my name's David Norland. I'm a composer. I worked on the Disney from around 2007 to around 2014. I've never been anything but a musician. I was educated classically and I discovered the electric guitar and took a hard left turn. I started doing work for and production companies. I guess through word of mouth, I got a call from this guy one day who was at the time the creative director for a channel that doesn't exist anymore. It's a channel called SoapNet. - SoapNet. - SoapNet. - The new way to watch soaps. - He got me into do the music, and we developed this relationship, and he moved on from there to become the creative director for Disney Channel. And when he went there in 2007, the very first thing he did was this big rebrand and which was great. I'd made records for and it was at a time when pop music, like in its purest, sugariest form, was really having another heyday. And suddenly Disney I guess what I was trying to do is to channel what I'd done and what was happening into the bumpers. So that it was really that Disney was doing at that point. - [Kevin] What goes into What are you trying to do and what do you want the - First of all, you have what is a bumper for? We've got the commercial break coming up, or whatever the break and we do not want people to go away. I'm trying to create, and I think the people is just a sense of ongoing excitement that this is not the end. That there's more to come and it's gonna be even more exciting. The actual four note mnemonic, the (vocalizing) predated me. I inherited that when I was brought on board. In a musical sense, I've got to have made and melodically leads to the mnemonic as the logical culmination of it. - [Kevin] So with those four notes, did you compose all in the same key? Is it the same four notes? Or is it the same steps? - It's the same steps. It's the same intervals. So whether it's bum, bum, bum, bum. Or it's bum, bum, bum, bum. It's still, and so I composed They're not particularly exotic keys. They're the kinds of pop music written in. I wonder if I, I mean, I could sit at the piano Yeah, you can go bum, bum, bum, bum. Well, probably to me, I would automatically think of that as bum, bum, bum, bum. Right? So F-G-C. 4-5-1. But you could also do You could do bum, bum, bum, bum. Right? And do it 5-4-1. Or you could do bum, bum, bum, bum. So you could do an E dominant seventh, to an F to a C. Or you could do bum, bum, bum, bum. Which is a little more kind and kind music hall. The basic rhythm is bum, But I think that I probably messed the rhythm around a little, moved it around a little bit And probably went bump, bump, bum, bum. Which is just, rhythmically, a slightly different way of voicing it. It's still the same intervals, but it says something ever so slightly different rhythmically. (theme tune playing) - [Kevin] I wanna ask you about some of the compositions specifically. I'll tell you my favorite. It was this wild, like, (vocalizing). - That one was originally scored to one, which had a particular And the string runs reflected - [Kevin] You were hired to do this. Do they say to you, &quot;Hey, &quot;Go nuts, but have it end with this.&quot; - Actually, it would've been between me and Ron the executive, and that conversation &quot;Yeah, yeah. &quot;You know what the mnemonic is, don't you? &quot;Yeah, just make sure, you know, &quot;obviously everything's I don't even know that he everything's got to end with that, because I would've known that. Seems very unlikely that it that they would change the mnemonic. It's such a successful piece of branding. - [Kevin] They don't hand you sheet music with four notes on it? - I don't think they did, no. I think at a certain point, which I had actually written, I think I did have to submit with these four notes on a stave. But I never received that It was all very much just, well, you know what the mnemonic is, isn't it? And I have no idea who As to your quest to find out who was the originator of it, I mean, you know, I'd be quite Because in this sort of realm of making music, you know, you have to figure that that's things of all time in that realm. - [Kevin] I was obviously disappointed that David did not know who But while I was researching the history of the eras of the channel, I stumbled across the Everyone knows Wikipedia, but there are countless that are created by fans. And these often skew While researching the different eras, I stumbled across the It is bumper Wikipedia. And it is the most detailed source for Disney Channel idents that I've found. The people that contributed left no stone unturned. They even go as far as to list the fonts that Disney Channel Not only that, but they also have an entire section dedicated to the music from this era. They describe it as several drum beats, which segue into a ska punk theme with electric guitars and a horn section. The last four notes of which become Disney Channel's signature jingle. And then you see this. Composed by Tonal Sound I don't know how they know this, I don't know if it's right, but this is the most All right, let's find Tonal Here's Elias. Audio identity. A pioneer in the discipline All right, they have a reel. Let's watch the reel. (static noises) (upbeat music) Oh, the MTV Moon Man, that's famous. Liberty Liberty And that annoying Liberty one. Yahoo They made Yahoo? And Intel. And Honda. We are farmers Man, you've got to be kidding me. (static noises) I didn't see Disney Channel, but I just saw pretty That is every sound I have ever heard. Okay, here's an article about them. Elias Music is known as the and for its ability to through the power of music. Mercedes-Benz, Nike, American Honda, Google, Farmers Insurance, Apple. There is probably a better than not chance that whoever wrote the worked for a Elias. Elias just happens to be the most popular music company for jingles in the world. This company has to have at least 10, maybe 20 composers at a time. Maybe a hundred composers. Well, it's not a good sign when I Google Elias Music Disney Channel jingle, and the first thing to come is the Audiovisual Identity Database. What is Elias Tonal? Again, first relevant result, the Audiovisual Identity Database, where we found the information (tense music) Okay, here we go. Alex Lasarenko, a composer, in New York City in 2002. And one of Tonal's clients And here's a link to their website. Okay, Tonal Sound does not exist anymore. Let's search for Tonal Oh no, I think that's an obituary. Yeah, he passed away two years ago. man. Alex Lasarenko was my creative during our shared time at Elias Arts. So it seems that Alex Lasarenko in 2002 when the Disney Channel which might be why both And I just keep seeing the tonalsound.com. Gosh darn it. Oh wait, the Wayback Machine. (electronic music) We don't have anything from 2002, but we do have stuff from 2003. Look at this old website. Andy Solomon, Eric Andy Solomon is the VP of and he worked for Elias Andy's a producer. Let's Type in Eric Perlmutter, Disney Channel. Oh my God. Disney Channel movie open It can't be. (explosive music) It is! Oh my gosh. And this is Eric's company. He's crediting himself for writing it. This doesn't mean he wrote the theme, but the fact that we know &quot;Let's watch a Disney Channel movie.&quot; That's a win. I needed that. So our initial lead from the was Elias Associates and Tonal Sound. Through our research, we was a creative director at both. Started at Elias and then founded Tonal. We also found that he has We know this because another wrote a tribute to Alex in which he claims that both Alex and him worked This means that Fritz is Through the archive Tonal website, we found mention of Andy Andy was a producer, but Eric was definitely a composer. Because through Eric's own website, we learned that he wrote the classic, &quot;Let's watch a Disney Channel movie.&quot; Opening song. After digesting all of this evidence, I am now confident that Eric Perlmutter, while working at Tonal Sound, wrote the Disney Channel theme in 2002. Did you write the Disney Channel theme? - I didn't, no. - [Kevin] Do you know who - No, I don't. I still don't. - [Kevin] Okay. What did - So, for the Disney Channel, I wrote a whole bunch of little bumpers, and then I actually did the which was sort of separate And yeah, it turns out Let's watch the Disney Channel movie - [Kevin] Were you given the lyrics, or did you write those lyrics? - Let's start a Disney Channel movie. Is there any other lyrics? Well, let's watch. Let's watch a Disney Channel movie. We're gonna watch. And that's it. That's it. I don't where I found the lyrics. - [Kevin] They just came to you? - The skills to put that into the - [Kevin] Wait, so you but you wrote with the theme? - Yes. So we would have the theme. Mostly for those, we just that I think it was easy in that respect, because they're so short. There's not really much So the challenge was always find the essence of that 'Cause you don't have but you still need to tell that story of, I'm trying to think of jumping on her bed and and feathers are flying everywhere. And it's over. Like you don't even have time to sort of set up an idea before it's done. - I just sent you a Did you write any of these? - Let's see. (pop rock music) Okay, I did that. I did this one with the freezer. Ah, this is me. The bug. Yeah, I did this one too. Pillow flight. Ah, I did this one with the dog. - [Kevin] How'd you get - (laughing) That was me. (imitating dog barking) - [Kevin] Wait, no, really? - Yeah. Oh yeah. That was one of the most- - [Kevin] So that wasn't, I thought you just pitch corrected a dog. - Nope. That was- - [Kevin] That was you? - Me barking. I think it's a misconception oftentimes with people who hear composer, and you think about a guy writing, you know, sheet But most of the time it's coming up and recording in and putting it all But when it came to these notes, it was pretty straight ahead. - [Kevin] And what was the you did these with? - Elias Associates or Elias Arts. - [Kevin] So from my research, it seems like Elias is Probably the biggest music house for jingles and sound signatures. Is that right? - Absolutely. That was my understanding that they were the country's biggest, probably the world's biggest music house bi-coastal at the time. - [Kevin] So that's probably why I'm having a difficult time trying to find who wrote that theme. - Yes. - [Kevin] It could have been probably dozens of people at the time. - Yes. And I think the company there are no individuals here. A little bit of a nameless face. You weren't sort of allowed to be known. - [Kevin] Okay, thanks My last question, did - I didn't, no. - [Kevin] Okay. (somber music) I'm actually having a lot of - When you create for So Disney wrote the the (keys typing) - Now you know, 'cause Disney 365 Disney 411 (somber music continues) (music stops) (ominous music building) (Kevin sighing) (notification alert) - So I just got a He also did not write the theme. He said if anybody were to know, it would be Alex Lasarenko. We unfortunately cannot ask him. It's been a few weeks now of no progress, so I think it's time to admit I've reached out to as many most of whom did not respond. And those that did told me that they did not write the theme and have no idea who did. There is one more thing I can try. A last resort. And that is releasing the video. I've always known this was my break glass in case of emergency. If I stop the video here and release it, someone out there watching or know someone who knows, or at the very least know who G Owen is. I know it's anti-climactic, This is officially a cold case, which means there's only It's really not surprising Bumpers, idents, interstitials. They are designed to be seamless, they are not meant to stand out. Why would their creators be any different? Maybe I'm just making excuses. From the moment I started I had an ending in mind. I thought it would be under but I hope it still plays well in defeat. And if I'm being honest, I So please indulge me. I'm Kevin Perjerer, and you're watching Disney Channel. (sorrowful music) Huh? That doesn't look right. Okay, let's try this again. Dang it. No, that's Zoo Pals. Okay. I feel bad for making I also cannot draw the logo. Yes, it's funny to see how off they were, but they look tired and I can't believe Disney Oh my God. I know how to find the composer. (ominous music) Okay, so I just had a revelation. Who released the footage of Because these are not funny bloopers. This is not a gag reel that I don't know when Disney in any official capacity. So I'm thinking that someone else did. That someone would need to So maybe it was someone internally, but more likely it was some company that worked on the project. Okay, this is a news organization Hillary Duff and Raven in unearthed Disney This article does not mention it just mentions that it So this Buzzfeed article for uploading them, but then it also embeds YouTube links that are no longer available. Here's a Pop Crush article. Update, the playlist has been Who uploaded the playlist? What if I YouTube the playlist? Nothing? What if I Google the playlist, nothing. What if I just do this? We're getting somewhere. Oh my gosh. Last month, Atlanta edit released some exclusive from some post production work they did on the iconic Disney Here's Guillotine Post. They don't credit themselves for doing any Disney Channel stuff. Guillotine is a digital Oh my god. Glen Owen. No, no, no. Go back. Glen Owen. That's G Owen. That has to be G Owen. State Line Films. Glen Owen worked for Disney Channel. What is this? It's one of the 9/11 PSAs. The editor worked for director Glen Owen. That is G Owen. For Andrea Taylor at Disney Channel. Here's Andrea Taylor, Senior Vice President Toon Disney and SoapNet. The new way to watch soaps. January 2000 to January 2003. Overhauled the network's image as a channel for sweet six year old girls into a powerhouse that Responsible for all aspects of stunting, marketing, synergy projects, online activity and short form programming. Everything, except the shows. That's what this video's about. She has to know who wrote the theme. I really hope she responds to her inbox. - [Kevin] So my first question is, what did you do at Disney Channel? - [Andrea] My job was to create change them around or make them different, and then go on to the next one. When I went to Lifetime, it It was a lot of variety of program, including medical programming, and when the head of we're gonna call this the head of ad sales said, &quot;Oh my God, we're gonna this is terrible.&quot; My job was to say, okay, - [Glen] Early in my career, I've been the associate creative director for sports promotion at TNT, and Andrea was the and so when she started working at Disney, she continued to use me to direct and produce their promotional work. She used Patrick McDonough a lot. He was amazing. - [Andrea] Patrick is great. I mean, he's designed so many networks. - [Patrick] I had been Andrea Taylor, who we did a she then went to TNT, we Andrea went to Disney, that's how we started to get and the Disney Channel - [Andrea] I was recruited to turn it from a network They had a younger section that was like &quot;Bear in and then there was The goal was to turn it We knew that that's where and win and be amazing. It meant changing the programming, but that would take a little longer, but as you know, Disney so you had 40 minutes and then I had 20 minutes an hour to fill. - [Kevin] And a lot of that was really clever synergy programming. Were you told by someone higher up what you needed to promote? - [Andrea] There was a meeting every week where there was a big, where everyone would announce to cross promote. I wish I had video from these meetings. When &quot;The Lizzie McGuire there was a meeting &quot;We're making napkins.&quot; And the next group would go, And this started at least a I started selling you a year and a half before &quot;Nemo&quot; came out. I think we called them Fishy Facts, and it was all stuff to get so that when it came out, you liked fish. - [Kevin] And these kids because I'm already into - [Andrea] Uh-huh. - [Kevin] But it was not a coincidence. - No. that's a little sinister. What is a network personality? - It's the feeling that you get that relates to that and whether that's or instrumentation or color so all these different to create this vibe, feeling, essence. - [Andrea] The psychology it's the same as creating You want you to be their first choice when they're going to look at stuff, like, oh, that's my channel. The competition was Nickelodeon So Cartoon Network was looked at more for boys, The philosophy at Nickelodeon kids versus the rest of the world, whereas Disney was Parents always felt better about Disney. - [Kevin] What do you - [Andrea] Zoog was a weird thing. That was like a foray and the gaming world and creating sort of this Technology wasn't necessarily It turned into a different thing. - [Kevin] Do you remember Zoog? - Oh yeah. Oh, we did Zoog. I think we did the Zoog. - [Kevin] There was a Do you remember Zoog Movie? - Yeah, I think, did we do Zoog? We did Zoog Movie. - Yes, you did, because it's the same kids - Exactly (laughs). I don't even know. I think Disney Channel Movie came first, and then all of a sudden, I don't know, Andrea probably called they want me to do this Zoog Movie, but it should be just like this. Yeah, (laughs) I forgot all about it. - [Andrea] We always would say, those kids are probably all parents and decrepit old people now at this point. We worked on what we called the promises. I'm trying to remember what they were. One was Express Yourself. But when I was growing that told you what these stars loved, which, you know, I'm and I thought that was I had them talk about so that kids would feel comfortable and feel like they could relate to the people on the channel. It looked like these kids and they all knew each other or they all did things together. - Yes. none of these kids lived together, none of these kids did anything. Like, a few of them did stuff The only times they ever when I said, okay, you're all gonna be here, and here's what you're gonna say. They would watch &quot;Lizzie McGuire&quot;, and they didn't watch Tom They did think that she was so the fact that they could get an insight into what all these stars felt about their mother or their That was their only path to that info. - [Kevin] And the weirdest then they became the most - I know. Were you like, whoops? - [Andrea] I know, it's pretty funny. (Kevin laughs) - [Kevin] What was the vibe? I mean, it was poppy? Could you describe it, for Disney Channel? - [Kevin] Fun. - Fun. Fun, fun, fun, and kind of magic. I mean, it makes me of the kids in the cafeteria line. Grays and neutrals and drab, to in comes the Disney logo, and it's glitter and candy delicious and syrupy. They were just these that were incredibly complicated and time-consuming to produce. - [Andrea] Eleo Hensleigh with the wand idea, because The wand thing came during lunch, or, 'cause we had the Disney Channel logo, so that's where the wand came from. It was very hard for the stars to understand what the hell we were doing, 'cause, remember, they were - [G.] So some were way, way off, and you'd have to do it again, and then I would always which was a lie, we'd do 10 more. Very good, one more. - Ooh, none of that. - [G.] They got tired Just another annoying thing we're having them do on their day off. - [Kevin] Were the wand IDs of some of the Express Yourself? - [G.] It would be like a lazy Susan. We would do the interview, then we'd have different B-roll sets. We'd have that B-roll set of different colored plastic, so we would bounce them around and get B-roll on these different sets, and that would be one of the stops through their little promo journey. - [Kevin] Okay, so all recognizable things for generations of children were in the same room. - [G.] Correct. - [Kevin] Not only were or the same production, within 30 minutes of each other. - [G.] A hundred percent. - [Kevin] So the big throughout all of this research, and the question that I really is, who wrote the Disney Channel theme? That four-note mnemonic when you were redesigning the channel. Do you have any idea who - [Andrea] I worked with who is not alive anymore. He worked at a company called Tonal. He created that sound. I had worked with him for a long time. I'd worked with him at TNT, I'd worked with him at Comedy Central. - [Kevin] So that four-note mnemonic, that was definitely Alex Lasarenko. - [Andrea] Yeah, it was Alex. - [Kevin] Do you remember anything from the production when - [Andrea] He probably did It's like he just, things came to him. He was amazing. I mean, he probably wouldn't He probably would've said, oh, I struggled over it for months. - [Kevin] Do you know anyone or that would've been around for the production of - [Andrea] You know what, to the producer. I'm trying to think of the name. Now I can't remember his name - [Kevin] Andy Solomon? - [Andrea] Andy Solomon, - Hi, I'm Andy Solomon, VP of formerly for Elias Arts and Tonal. - [Kevin] So when you started at Elias, is that when you met Alex? - Yeah, right away when I started as a producer, so he was the creative - [Kevin] I assumed it wasn't Alex, because he was always executive owner eventually, with Tonal. Through talking to people, he was also composing regularly. - Oh, absolutely. He is like a classically trained musician, done a million different things, but had a knack for memorable melodies. It was almost like you could whether it was Disney Channel. Again, I forget, we did and it was two notes, and we'd always go Encore And that was the melody, so, half joking, but I also think that was - [Kevin] Do you know anyone else that I could speak to about Alex? - His sister Lisa. Do you know Lisa Lasarenko? - [Lisa] If you ever spent time around Alex, you would notice, even when he was just his right hand was almost like he had an invisible pen His right hand was always writing. I think in his mind, of things in a musical perspective. - [Kevin] I notice towards he was credited alongside a David Little. Do you have his information? - My name's David Little. I worked at Tonal for, I I continued to work with Alex after that. I've never seen anybody that Almost seems like effortless for him. He would just turn around and just knock out an amazing piece, and be like, all right, what's next? - He's an amazing musician, and he was also, in this business world, in the music for television and - [Lisa] He could literally write music in a couple hours and be done with it. I mean, it really came to him super fast. - [Kevin] The thing that I'm is lack of photos of Do you have any? Do you know of any? - I knew him for probably and I have zero photos of him. He was one of those guys, he was like, if a camera came out, he - [Kevin] So Andrea Taylor told me that the theme was - What, how not surprised am I about that? A genius composer and a good friend. He's no longer with us, but of all of our composers at Elias. It's tough when you have and who's just an absolute music prodigy, and you're just a dumb to live in the same, As a young person, it was but hugely inspiring, and boss as well. - He was wonderful. Loving, funny, so talented, that it just was like nothing to him. And being in his presence, especially while he was I feel like I'm getting but those sessions where you would just and Alex would be sitting at the piano and just kind of go off. - [Andrea] For TNT, we conducted and it was just amazing to watch him work. And then for this, here Like, the same head, the same head! (elegant music) (machine rumbling faintly) (machine rumbling faintly) - I love what I do. I get to make videos for a living, on subjects that I'm passionate about, that people watch. I am so lucky, and I am eternally grateful for every second that but I'd be lying if there that hates that this is called a video, and not a documentary or a film, and that I am referred to as a YouTuber or a content creator, and not a filmmaker or a Because the truth is that I could do this, make videos on this platform and I would be happy every day, but that small part of me, that selfish, arrogant, pretentious, miserable part of me would not be happy if that were my legacy when I'm gone. Because living my dream than I imagined as a kid, I didn't know Alex Lasarenko, and unfortunately, I never will. I made this video two years too late, and I missed my chance to interview him. I can't ask him what it was like composing for commercials and networks, I can't ask him how he came up with the Disney Channel theme, but I think the first question are you okay with this? Do you even want to be credited Because this was his most popular work. He composed for other networks and shows and commercials and films, some of which some people may recognize, but nothing comes close How could you compete with something that has been playing nonstop for millions of people for 20 years? And according to everyone he probably wrote it in a day, and he might not have thought It was just another job. Alex is well remembered by his friends and family and coworkers, but on a broader public he does not have a well-defined legacy. There's the tribute the IMDB page, the archived But when I release this video and credit him for composing this theme, it will likely become the and I'm hesitant to do that. I'm hesitant to condemn someone else to the fate that I fear for myself. And worse, in this case, There is an obvious solution to this, and that is to expose you to some of Alex's other work while to give you a broader sense of his talents and artistry outside of I could play a few clips I could link to some of his work and encourage you to go but I don't have to, because you've already In fact, you are and you have been, the whole You've been listening to the music of the late Alex Lasarenko. (grand triumphant music) (grand triumphant music continues) (grand triumphant music continues) (grand triumphant music continues) (grand triumphant music continues) Do you ever think about your - I have lots of thoughts on this subject. I asked my wife, &quot;There's a gentleman who's interested in the and is that what I would like to go on the record speaking about, when I have these other parts And then I thought, well, that I bring to everything that I do. Perhaps there's a sort of a in all of, probably in every artist, that wants to be the as the great, the serious, Maybe humility is accepting that we're not gonna be in charge of how we're seen by posterity, and actually, it doesn't matter, and that the work will speak for itself. Aliens coming from outer space without our preconceptions or what our preconceptions may have a completely different idea of what's valuable in A four-note mnemonic that, in its beautiful, minimal simplicity, completely encaptures an and associations for millions and around the world, I think that's a pretty - [Lisa] He was just good at of a lot of things, so when he wrote the music, that something as simple could have a shelf life (machine rumbling faintly) (keys clicking) (mouse scroller clicking) (mouse button clicks) (machine rumbling faintly) (machine rumbling faintly) (machine rumbling faintly) (machine rumbling faintly) (grand music) - [Kevin] I have always been fascinated with programming breaks, and interstitial programming. Their existence is so and yet there is so much creativity and artistry put into them. It's confounding. (stirring music) (televisions shatter) (bright music) There is a part of me that the truest art, the most is the art which is created the art that takes the longest to create, and the art that has the most to say; that the music played in than the music written for commercials; that the films that play in than those uploaded to the internet; that the programming must have more merit than the programming breaks, but I've never fully believed this. In truth, I am more drawn those whose work often goes overlooked. Whenever I have the opportunity there is no shortage of passion, intent, or pride in what they do. It doesn't matter if it was just a job, or if they completed it in a day. It doesn't matter what or what they are referred to as. These are artists. They brought everything they had to whatever they were (gentle music) (hand patting) (chimes tinkle) In the end, the production of the work is only half of the process, and maybe all that matters is that someone, somewhere, got something from whatever you created. And in the case of the that is indisputable. In the minds of thousands this music evokes feelings This sound has the ability from the feel of carpet It could return one's or represent a safe reprieve It could be a symbol of a relationship with a sibling or a parent or a friend. It could even inspire future Any one of us, artist or otherwise, would be fortunate, blessed even, to be remembered for a single note, so what a monumental achievement it is to be remembered for four. (piano plays the four note mnemonic) (soulful jazzy music) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues) (soulful jazzy music continues)