Our Universe is one of immense and least 70 sextillion stars - oases of light in our Universe, than there are grains of absurd number that defies human of cosmic landmarks, there's a certain the outposts of concentrated matter are few and far between. If each star were indeed shrunk down to the size of a grain of sand, then the typical separation between each grain of the distance from here at Columbia to downtown Manhattan in the Greenwich Village. Now that distance, which is about four light years coming back to physical immense challenge to our modern most remote spacecraft, Voyager 2, another 80,000 years to traverse such a distance. And that's just an nearest star, the nearest galaxy is half a million times further out than this. When faced it seems like the Universe simply ever exploring the depths of space. Like exploration which will always be out of And it's at times like these that we on exotic physics, such as warp drives or wormholes. But to the best of our knowledge, these are theoretically physics? In our recent videos we means for interstellar travel, to get you to other galaxies. Remarkably that might allow a person to travel lifetime. But like making a deal with the that you might not be so quick to want natural consequence of Einstein's going to be taking a trip onboard the Let's imagine that we have constructed a ship long as we like. That means that its and every second that ticks by. So for traveling at 100 meters per second and kilometer. We're just going to leave actually conduct such a feat for the that's simply for the purpose of keeping similarly we are going to assume that a of withstanding any kind of impact or the constant acceleration would be that the rear of the ship, with the same force thereby creating artificial gravity - previous video in much more depth. And so pleasant, working and living that undergoes constant acceleration momentum over time as its voyage interest - your gains looks more to begin those gains rapidly accumulate. After sailed past the Moon, after one and a three weeks we'd have overtaken Voyager 2 and left the Solar System altogether. By this point a ship would be traveling the speed of light. built has ever traveled before. It's fast, theory of special relativity to the Solar System, we head out towards our see it gradually increase in brightness into just another speck of light behind life on board is probably rather mundane with each day your ship travels about it did the day before. It's now with your friends and family back on to travel back and forth is now many alleviated by regular letters from home, news, sports results, scientific back on Earth. After 15 months into your the first light year - you're now just Centauri, but over a third time and that's thanks to the ship's milestone that you and your crew realize physicists caught your Lorentz factor, has now passed a factor of two. That and Earthbound observers is now a factor seem to see you moving in slow motion on Einstein's theory of special relativity you and your ship, that's because you are the cosmic speed limit - the speed of then you should expect to cross the Einstein's theory, a theory which has on Earth, states that nothing can move all observers - no matter what their speed - will always observe the speed of light to be the same. Now this is very moving train, then the train appears to horse's perspective. But relativity says running, if the train is a beam of light away at exactly the same speed - the speed the speed of light is a constant to all consequence is that space and time are this rule. And that's exactly what such that observers back on Earth seem on board. And even space shifts such that length. famous Lorentz factor, which at this This even affects your perceived you are now no longer accelerating at 1g, be getting ever smaller as you approach onboard you still feel a 1g acceleration. crew would not think anything had like usual. But you would notice some Looking back at the Sun, you'd notice faded into darkness, much faster than scaling. By the time your Lorentz factor detectable with the ship's onboard aberration and time dilation effects. Not appears increasingly red shifted, due to fact that it now emits mostly in the see it. But ahead of you, the opposite 10,000 times brighter than it would if radiation is now arriving as high-energy constellations ahead of you would appear vision illusion. In a very real way, as disconnect from the rest of the Universe. option, because we don't have infinite going to want to slow down, step off the Universe. So one way of doing this is to halfway mark in your journey and flip in the opposite direction, thus bringing Now let's stick with our original 4.4 light-years away. Remember that this Earth would take 4.4 years to reach dilation effects on board you would land planets having aged just three and a a beam of light here, because according you six years. Maybe you spend a few head back onboard and make the return about seven years would have passed for Not a bad timescale to complete a Recall that your ship started 2.2 light-years from Earth. journey from your perspective, at which percent the speed of light. Let's imagine crew decided that they didn't want to go to They wanted to use all of this momentum dreamed of. Now remember we're scenarios - we'll relax that assumption by four phases. Outbound acceleration, acceleration and then inbound that a round trip to Alpha Centauri now let's go further out. Our Sun lives higher hydrogen gas density than usual, a and playfully known as the local fluff. A this local fluff would age 13.4 years during their adventure. Upon return, they'd find that their children aged those 13.4 years, strange reunions. Nobody believed me, How? Because my Daddy promised me. Perhaps the crew are not fluff though, perhaps they vote to go volume in which the local fluff itself thousands of stars spanning 300 crew will be able to fly to the edge of only 22 years would have passed for them. they would be historical relics, as six Earth. Perhaps the crew would be shocked transformed society in those six set a round trip to leave our Galactic round trip would take 31 years weird. Remember that your journey is end of that first phase of acceleration you're journeying out to the edge of the you about eight years. But, after about would look out of the front window, and Two-thirds of the way into your 7th ahead looks like it's glowing red. At playing tricks on you after so many your Lorentz factor by now is 650. And left over radiation from the Big Bang, blue shifted all the way from the coarse of your now final year of are amazed to see this small patch of bluer, until at its peak velocity it's cosmic rainbow. As if the ship has now itself. Perhaps not satisfied with leaving the to the edge of the Galaxy itself - a round Having returned home from their 100,000 sixties, would return to an Earth which had It's very difficult to imagine how long timescale. Perhaps our ancestors generations of gradual evolution. Perhaps languages to the ones we recognize today, technology and gone back to a more Earth itself is abandoned at this point Earth at all. Whatever happens at this likely represents an ancient library, eons of time back on Earth. But all of if we go truly to the beyond to another In a 56 year epic round trip you, and having borne witness to another galaxy very likely no one even recognizable as years having passed by. You and your crew Universe. Although there were no humans ever seen it before - biodiversity has coral reefs have recovered across the disappeared as Nature has now reclaimed venture further afield than Andromeda, technologies for the crew. Voyaging cluster, would require a round trip of 67 lives within the Laniakea supercluster hundreds of millions of light years and Your round trip now would take 76 years. At peak velocity during that journey, your Lorentz factor would be 250 million a speed of light. By this point, the Cosmic to have increased from his ambient 2.73 degrees Kelvin - that's the temperature minutes after the Big Bang itself. extremely hazardous radiation mention the now ludicrous shielding Sometimes you hear it said that as you of the ship increases so much that that from the perspective of the ship, it is debris out there, that has the extreme tiny particles would not be for the year round trip to the edge of the would be barely recognizable. Landing on unfamiliar positions. The surface is now no longer even breathe the air around Over the last billion years the Sun's 10%, which in turn has increased the rate weathering has removed carbon dioxide photosynthesis is now no longer possible, ceasing oxygen production and collapsing tectonics may have shut off as water These would be the last days of point only simple microbial life will be a few hundred million years at best. The And so I think it would be a mournful and see it not go out with a bang but be death, perhaps reminding you of the fate your own body is feeling the effects of One might suggest that there's no reason these types of round trips. After all the can travel exponentially further with Indeed you sometimes hear it claimed the observable Universe using constant billion light-years away from us. But no how extreme time dilation becomes, we the observable Universe. Now why should of billions of light years, then the to interfere with our voyage. In 1998, two supernovae to independently discover expansion, something known since Edwin was itself accelerating. We do not fully cause is usually labeled dark energy. the Universe's expansion, we can define which limit our interactions with the called &quot;particle horizon&quot; is the light could have traveled since the Big billion years ago. means the distance should be 13.8 expansion of the Universe it's actually billion light years across. Now coming want to make a round trip over cosmic distances between regions to gradually during my trip, meaning I have to Now this isn't important if you're region, like a galaxy say, that resists as we voyage beyond our galactic supercluster. As far as I can tell, there is no previous mention or calculation of a we should be able to calculate it by I'll link to a paper down below where kinds of calculations yourself. But to distance turns out to be 8.3 billion light-years away. This distance represents a cosmic point no coming back, you would never be able speed of light. And that's because the outpaces you - and yes space can and does it would be a strange feeling on board knowing that no matter what happens, from home and see the Earth again. Since we let's not even, try let's change the ticket. Now I'm still going to assume deceleration phase, where we come to a difficult to talk about how much time same inertial frame of reference from need to come back home, you might expect the Universe, perhaps even to the edge of answer is no. Even if we accelerate we'll never catch up to the so-called point of no return. which a beam of light emitted from Earth Because parts of the Universe are can never catch up to such regions and within this so-called event horizon. But let's just keep going. After this point, because no matter how hard, we try we And in fact the rest of the Universe ever faster. Soon there are no galaxies Universe expands ever faster beyond our the void. If we're not really a spaceship Could we use a ship to travel to the end naively use the equations of special extreme. For example, with an acceleration centuries by the ship's clock, a clock hundred thousand trillion trillion protons would have theoretically decayed here's the thing it doesn't really make dilation anymore. And that's because time hence the name relativity, to our initial case was the Earth. after crossing so many light-years, the We are no longer causally connected to it. Put another way, it is now literally impossible to compare clocks to those only can you not compare to Earth's other clock by this point. That's because factor of 10 to the 10 to the 55 and no other particles within your entire the Cosmic Microwave Background has even talk about measuring time, comparing in separate Universes by this point? The dilation have effectively unraveled. And close. In complete isolation. A perfect monument to times that once were, to a you and your crew finally pass away into day that you agreed to step on board that hurtled into nothingness. The live in its flourishing years with stars life too proliferates across the cosmos. product of it. There's never been a probably never will be again. eventually end, but for now we have a grow and build by. Let us use the time It's just his place to hide. he disconnected himself from the person he loved the most. Sometimes when you win, you lose.