So it's Monday, the 9th of January 2023, and I'm on my way to the University All over the weekend, the James Webb Telescope have been observing the planet Now this is a really exciting moment It's the first time at this particular target, a real test of the capabilities of the telescope. Yeah, well, they're working away, so I'm hoping there'll be a nice little show And my emails have been trickling that more data is available on the archive So it's going to be a very busy day, This is our first glimpse of what the data might actually look like and as we keep going longer, There we go. That is Uranus. Look at the black. nest there is where we think And actually Then if I scanned down all of these lines They are uranian spectra, there's Ethane and acetylene produced Hey, Leigh Hi, Naomi. There we go. Hey, good morning. I understand but can you see yourselves now on screen? Yes. Yes, we can. Okay. So what I will show you is the one of the best wavelengths What wavelength is it? Look at the spectrum. Oh my word! Darkest regions that we're confident about. Wow. I can even see glimpses of the rings in these data. What else do we have? There we go. Even better. The rings around Uranus and some hot spots So this is our first glimpse of the data. And I think we can all be extremely happy this is just so fantastic to see this. You know, it's it's been a long time But, you know, every every moment that has come to fruition And I thank you to you and your team for spearheading this Yeah, observations of these data, I agree with you. This is going to fundamentally change And then when we get Neptune going to be the whole ice So it's just fabulous. So thanks. Thanks. Yeah. My name's interdisciplinary scientists I started working on the JWST project nearly 25 years ago, before We called it And so I became involved in the project this fantastic asset to study objects And that's challenging because they're bright Are planetary with with the JWST project for the last 20 it did have the capability to observe NASA's been exploring the solar system for many decades, I don't think I can capture It explored, We started with the moon because we knew We wanted them to be aware We also, in the early years to Mars starting with the Mariners And we've since sent orbiters and rovers Opportunity, Curiousity, and even a little helicopter Interestingly, when we've been studying like Jupiter and Saturn, just as fascinating We had the Uranus flyby in 1986 We had the Neptune flyby of Voyager Right now, the outer planets are the least explored planets One of the things that I had learned when we continued to study based telescopes after it had its servicing but I think it's really a testament to the and that we have a wide field camera which will help What I learned was that these planets change and that what Voyager saw was a snapshot in time. But the planets today I use the analogy that it's like if I showed you a picture of me in 1986, that's not how I look today, right? I've changed. And so using only the Voyager data doesn't give us an accurate understanding And so the need to continue observing them until we get a new mission there over the years. Good evening. Welcome to the Space I'm Don Savage, public affairs officer This evening, we're pleased to announce the start of the impact of periodic Comet The impact of the first fragment 3:54, and scientists around the world National Science Foundation every other telescope and observatory for the impact of Shoemaker-levy nine. My team and I were set up in the Institute and for the actual event of the first where they had computer screens, where the technicians to make sure everything's okay. Normally, They don't let people in. So we were all crowding in there, and when the first images came, I mean, it was like, what is this? Could this be a moon? Is this a real plume? What is it? Get an almanac check But yeah, I have it could be because we had to reduce That one looks pretty good. The fit. And then when the first image Holy smokes, there's video of me Everyone around us is, Oh, Jennifer! Look at this! Oh my god. Isn't that incredible? it's bright in the methane band. That's amazing! That's what we all say at that time monitor up above the big screen And we could see the press conference that was happening and Gene Shoemaker, Carolyn Shoemaker you know, everything was happening. And so I said we have to break in. And they said, this is a formal You can't break That's the kind of person I was. So I said, Get me a computer printout Do you even know what I'm talking about But you can see Jupiter, And I said, We're going up TV crews She's going up because I have to show Gene and Carolyn It's not fair. that they didn't know what was happening One floor below And I think we may have some up (laughter) I'd like to Introduce Dr. Heidi Hammel. Eugene Shoemaker said he would be Well, if we didn't see something, Well, he's not going to be astonished. We actually saw some amazing things. We. We just downloaded the first two orbits We were able to see a plume in the second orbit, This is as raw as it gets. we can actually see the impact site And I'll remind you, this is for A So we're going to have a really exciting Why be dull and boring about it, Right? Let's just let's have some spectacle. Let's have fun with this. That was sort of my whole presentation because we have press conferences And today we're like, Who knows? You know, what's going to be the big one What is that going to do? Big Black Eye on Jupiter was my best The impact of Comet Shoemaker-levy back in 1994 was a game changer taking place on the planet and with other ground based telescopes really changed our perception of how planet changing All of these places we are really limited in what we can do But now with Hubble we are getting new views of all of these the results we've gotten from these myriad missions to all these worlds. And we have a fully (cheering) Future proofing JWST was not a problem because what that even over the quarter century we never built anything to surpass it. And then when those first images came out Wow, it's happening along the way unfolding itself. Deploying a mirror 21 feet wide, a sunshield the size of a tennis court and 250,000 tiny shutters, each one smaller than a grain of sand, look at everything in the solar system because we have a sunshade, an umbrella but they only protect us So all of the planets move around in the sky rather quickly, sometimes are in the zone or they're far so that tells us when to look The JWST looks in the infrared, You can do cool things by looking at heat because you can look through the dust where planets are being born The reason we wanted to use JWST to study is that we knew this telescope and we also knew that it would have image quality and stable And those are things because they allow us to get higher Now, in our solar system, but we don't send spacecraft everywhere. And so the places that we don't send we need to use telescopes to study telescope that we were ever able to build, would be, and think about what we could do with this We have two basic capabilities. One is take pictures an object into a rainbow to see how bright So that's really important for us to do. The chemical analysis and the physical In any public talk I give about JWST I always start by explaining what spectroscopy is superpower. The spectra are so fabulous together, And what makes the audience gasp It's so good, so clean, The sensitivity is so exquisite So we never get to print a picture of a spectrum in the newspaper But it's the thing that astronomers use those things that we find as a chemist, the spectroscopy is the best part Yes, we're getting fantastic images, you know, the hunt for the first galaxies on the spectra, the images And without seeing the actual spectra, of an object or, you know, the pristine I'm Stefanie Milam. I'm the deputy project scientist I decided to become a scientist I grew up in Houston, down to Johnson Space Center. When I was about six years old. I came home just absolutely elated one day I'm going to be an astronaut, pretty much everything I've done has been to become a scientist and to work at NASA someday. I knew that I wanted to become a mission specialist, But at the time I was working Basically washing glassware for a living And I knew that I couldn't And I asked my advisor, and not have to deal with wet I never want to see another beaker. She knew I had a passion for astronomy Have you ever heard of something And that was sort of the turning point. And my laboratory went from, you know, a to now the entire universe, If you would have whether or not astrophysics mission NASA's ever had, I would have never imagined it, never. The way the program worked for those of us As part of accepting that work with NASA, on this new telescope, And so I knew I had 100 hours that I was planning to use Heidi came to me and she said, to go to the solar system community so that they have this data in hand And they really see We see we reached out what do you think What would be unique, And we invited them to send little tiny And so we had a couple of conversations And she she wanted to cover the entire solar system And so we broke up her time that we can observe, which are the best asteroids, comets, the Great Red Spot, Uranus, Neptune, we decided that we needed to have They would have their own science teams, that would be responsible for making sure and delivered and the data was published. The best part of this entire and that just goes to show is, how international it is for astronomy, We aren't just one small niche group people sitting in a room It takes a whole team comes from many different areas And all of that helps feed in that we need to really get a grip Learn something about the solar system we haven't been able to do so. One of the things we had to decide as a science we going to try to push JWST? After a lot of dialog, we decided that the orbit of Mars the limiting factor, and we looked at We said, okay, so that that's going to be our target goal That would then be fast enough observations of Saturn and the Kuiper Belt objects NASA's had a mission called the DART redirect test, where they crashed And they were looking to see Part of the observing we decided to do The challenge was that asteroid three times faster than the upper limit in the development of JWST. Huge and the operating team for JWST, to get the telescope to track fast enough And we did get some fabulous So with Webb we get to see things that we cannot primarily We cannot see through the Earth's So what gives us is the ability that would otherwise we couldn't Well, particular that's really important which is what I do, which means that we can see the molecules about what the atmospheric composition Obviously we're working as a team the puzzle of Titan's weather. One of the things that we're looking at Titan has lakes These are seas of methane, quite But at the same time, in terms of rainfall and rivers So we're very excited to look at those the same lakes and seas You know, we have a lot of stuff going on. We have orbiters and everything, but James Webb can see Mars the whole side of Mars and you can map it. And this is something that really available on James Webb. And that has been amazing and look for molecules like methane, that it could be an indicator That's why we are excited about it. That's why we are working on right now the same thing we can apply to Europe and Enceladus. And you know Enceladus is but is like that waiting to see And then when we point there, So, I mean, when you see those things This cannot be real. So you go back to the data and then you confirm some of the data hasn't come yet. I'm still waiting for the Neptune We have a Neptune image to make some beautiful pictures And boy, did that whet my appetite with the Neptune's Science. Even when we were commissioning one of our commissioning projects was to look at Jupiter just so we could and within a single minute worth we already knew that we could detect the rings, the satellites, There's haze, layers. We saw all of that already knew this was going to