Hyogo,Japan Since 1979 Ikkanrou Soup is a combination of 6 chicken and 4 pork Vegetables are added to this soup. We use No. 2 broth to control the smell and stuff like that. There is a menu item called &quot;Nikumeshi.&quot; It's the cabbage you put in it. If you don't fry it first, it's hard to get it cooked Preparing the famous &quot;Butanikutamagomeshi. Temperature in the kitchen reaches 50 degrees Celsius. Preparing dumplings Once steamed, the buckwheat noodles are put back in before baking. (It's been in business for 43 or 4 years. I trained at Arata Ikkanrou Sannomiya and started my own business My father passed away and then I was allowed to take over You've been a cook for about 35 years. I think they sell pork buns in other restaurants I've got one person making them and I can't get them ready in time. I stopped making it. Opened at 10:30 Pork, ramen Meat, rice Butanikutamagomeshi Nikumeshi Yakisoba Ramen Ebitamagomeshi Gomoku yakisoba Yakimeshi Pork, ramen 2 Shrimp, ramen 1 Yakimeshi, yakisoba Pork and egg rice with ramen 1 yakimeshi and 2 gyoza Ramen, yakimeshi, and gyoza 2 Pork balls, gyoza ? Pork, dumplings Ramen noodles with service set pork Shrimp, ramen Pork, ramen, shrimp, ramen Champon, beer and dumplings Champonmen Pork, wonton grilled rice Shrimp, wontons Hiyashicyuka Shrimp, ramen, pork, dumplings Ebitamagomeshi Gomoku yakisoba Gomoku yakimeshi Hyogo,Japan Since 1982, Udon Ichiban Open 22 hours from 4:00 am to 2:00 am Automatic noodle boiler Boils noodles in approx. 40 sec. Mini udon noodles, topped with meat Katsu-don, wakame udon Katsu-don Kake Udon Without green onion Takoyaki restaurant is attached to the udon shop 6 pieces sauce mayo Do you add ginger? Just the sauce Do you put sprinkles on it? Sauce mayo is the most common order. With dashi, there are two kinds: sauce and uncooked. With sauce, some customers say it's spicy and tasty. Zaru udon Curry and rice, large portion On weekends, this will be 4 cups. Katsu will be prepared in the restaurant A katsudon order is about 90-100 servings on a weekday On weekends, it's about 120 servings And beef bowl, oyakodon, tamagodon, kitsune donburi, all kinds of things. Gyu-don I work from 5:00 a.m. I'll be back at 3:00 or 4:00. I've only been working here for four or five years. I've only been an employee for about two years. I've been here part-time while I've been self-employed. I closed my own restaurant, so I made this my main business. udon or soba? Soba, please. Tanuki Kitsune-don Okra and grated radish with nebaneba bukkake Hiyashi kitsune Yakiniku-don Oyako-don large bowl, zaru soba Oyakodon Oyakodon, zaru soba Kasu udon, kitsune,Topped with prawn tempura Different dashi broth is used for different types of rice bowls Katsu-don is LL ball Two M balls for tamago-don, oyako-don, and kitsune-don Oyako-don,kake-udon noodles with thin noodles Katsu-don with a bowl of rice topped with pork cutlet, large portion Udon or soba? Udon Would you like a raw egg or an onsen tamago? Raw egg What do you want onigiri, inari, or maki? With maki Meat udon,Topped with a raw egg, Makizushi 8 pieces of sauce mayo 8 takoyaki with sauce mayo Japanese food, Western food, standing buckwheat noodles, izakaya, yakitori, Almost worked. I also worked at a French restaurant The only thing I didn't do was Chinese. Kitsune-don Donzaru set (oyakodon, zaru soba) Preparing pork cutlets for katsudon Preparation of yakiniku donburi Kobe, Japan 5-minute walk from Sanyo Tarumi station Nagasaki Chanpon Monkichi Tarumi-ten Founded by my husband I think we've been in business for 26, 27 years now. I got my job from Nagasaki. You came to Kobe after you graduated from junior high school. I worked for a company at first, and I worked there for 20 years. I opened a store here, and I've been here for 26, 7 years now. The son who is the second generation of &quot;Monkichi&quot; The last of the &quot;love&quot; is needed I need to &quot;love&quot; it. We get so many orders for fried chicken that you would think we were a fried chicken restaurant! I prepare about this much every day. I also add it to set meals. Open at 11:00 Set #1 (karaage, mini ramen, rice) Karaage (6 pieces), yakimeshi (large portion), gyoza (2 servings) Authentic Nagasaki Sara udon noodles Second or third time I came to the restaurant This is roughly what I always order Delicious. Tenshindon Set 1. Chinese-style fried chicken Takana egg fried rice Authentic Nagasaki chanpon Sara udon, set of 6. Set No. 6 (ramen noodles, Tenshinhan (small)) I've been going here for a long time now. It's been over 10 years. 15, 6 years now. My favorite is tentsun rice and ramen set This is what I order most of the time So much so that they have nicknames for me. I run a yakitori restaurant nearby They call me &quot;master&quot; there. so they call this the &quot;master set Delicious! It's hard to eat it anywhere else I always have a hard time deciding between Sara Udon and Champon. two bowls of chanpon and yakisimeshi. Number 7, Number 3. Thick noodle Sara udon, 6 karaage. Set No. 9 (ramen noodles, Chinese rice bowl (small)) Gyoza preparation Thick noodle Sara udon Cold tantan Chinese fried noodles with starchy sauce Fried chicken (6 pieces) spicy egg fried rice I'm not sure if sweet dashi or something else is my favorite flavor. The &quot;niku bukkake&quot; is delicious. It's an exquisite dish. Kobe, Japan Tachigui AsakusaSoba Hon-ten The owner of Asakusa Soba A place where you can enjoy Kanto style dark-colored dashi broth Japanese pork oil cake Preparing rice balls is the owner's sister Asakusa soba popular item, Abura kasu Soba Sometimes regular customers arrive before the store opens Today I ordered the Asakusa Gozen. Nikutama Soba Delicious sweet soup stock I come here to eat sometimes. I want to eat very much after work There are not many restaurants where you can enjoy Kanto style seasoned soup stock. The sweet dashi broth is more to my taste, or so I'm told. I like it that way 290 yen~ Norigen, a coffee shop a couple of doors down The owner's routine is to eat an egg sandwich from this store for lunch. Two Zaru Gozen and one colander The owner's mother comes to help out at lunchtime. I come here once a week to eat. I like the hardness of the noodles here. I like Zaru related in the summer time. In winter, I like curry udon or niku udon The spices are different. Nikutama soba , please. Zaru soba gozen, please Nikutama soba Bukkake nikutama kiwamisoba(cold) I come here about once a week. I come here to eat during breaks from work Soba is my favorite I always order a large portion Niku curry soba with egg topping I got the recommended egg sandwich Norigen's egg sandwiches I come here twice a week I come here to eat often The &quot;niku bukkake&quot; at this restaurant is delicious! Excellent! Gesoten soba I've recently started coming near here for work. I come here almost every day The hot soba or udon soup stock. Firm, rich and tasty. I was originally in Tokyo. This dashi is very best Soba is good, but the dashi is delicious A little different from soba around here Nishin soba Nishin soba Bukkake nikutama kiwamisoba(cold) Gesoten soba Ekisoba is quite famous, isn't it? Hyogo,Japan Ekisoba Otemae-ten Ekisoba veteran part-timer Chinese noodles used for Ekisoba The specialty &quot;Ekisoba&quot; is Chinese noodles served with Japanese soup stock. Tempura in Ekisoba This is tempura It's called maruten The most popular is &quot;Tempura Ekisoba.&quot; Japanese soup stock Open at 10 You can dine on the terrace Chilled Kashiwa tempura tartar Ekisoba, Kishu Nanko ume plum Souvenir Ekisoba Ekisoba (tempura) topped with raw egg Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) Ekisoba (tempura) topped with fried Kitsune Ekisoba (Kitsune) Chilled kashiwa tempura tartar Ekisoba I'm here because you wanted to come again today My favorite is the one I'm eating right now. He's eating it right now. It's a salmon rice ball set, 3 tempura items, and 1 kitsune! Inari set. Inarizushi, Ekisoba set. Oyakodon set, kitsune, tempura Oyakodon set, kitsune, tempura Oyakodon Oyakodon Ekisoba set Tonkastudon set Kombu rice ball and tempura Kishu-Nanko-Ume Nebatro Ekisoba (summer only) Tempura, kitsune and bottled beer. A big bowl of kitsune. (Today) we're going out for a bit A big bowl of kashiwa tempura and a big bowl of kitsune. Kashiwa tempura large bowl. Kashiwa tempura Ekisoba Looks like ramen noodles This is the first time I've been here. Go see Himeji Castle. (Ekisoba is) pretty famous, right? It's cheap. We had it on the terrace Chilled kashiwa tempura tartar Ekisoba Kishu-nanko-ume nebatoro Ekisoba (summer only) Ekisoba cup noodles