Walking Akasaka, what do you mean? I heard that your New Fourth Army is very powerful , so today I want to see if you can beat our imperial army. If I can beat one of your Japanese soldiers, I can beat 10 of them. Give me 10 of them. All of you, listen up. Let's go up and fight him together. Hey Zhiman, bullying more and less means nothing. Hahaha, everyone heard it just now. You want to fight 10 of them by yourself. I will help you. Don't be afraid to fight them. The more people there are , the more you have to take the initiative. Only by holding their noses in this way can you defeat your opponent. Well said , fuck me. Hey , good fight. Many of you have just arrived here and don't know the rules in our prison. This is not a prison. We will compete here every day starting from tomorrow. If any of you wins, everyone will be qualified to fight with our imperial army. If he can beat me, I will let him out, including you. You all listen to the rules here. We all know that as long as someone can defeat all the prisoners and finally defeat the warriors of our imperial army, they will be free. Which of you will come up first to challenge Master Du? Can't you screw him? Huh, aren't you guys usually very capable? Why are you so cowardly and farting now ? I'll open the door first . Who dares to fight me? Who's going to fight the wild wolf ? No one dares to fight me. Come on. Does anyone dare to fight me ? Don't panic . I'm here for a meeting. You 're open . It's good to start the game . I've been working at the dock for 20 years and I'm throwing you away like a sandbag. In this game, the wild wolf shoots well, well, well, well. What do you think of this drama I arranged for you? It's so enjoyable , but I want to see the Wuying Mall even more . I think just like you . The army has a reward. Hey, boss, boss , you understand. We can't beat that guy named Han, but we still don't take it out on his people. Yes, I'm here . Come on , boss , boss, come on , you bitch and traitor. The game is starting to be awesome. There is no trace in this game. There are still two moments to beat this kid. I hope he beats everyone and finally lets me beat him to death with my own hands. Hahaha , boss, boss, boss, boss, how are you? Boss, boss, boss , boss, boss, you all listened to the purpose of the game. Now raise your hands. Who is kicked out? This is what will happen to him if he dares to take action. Iron -headed boss, please wake up, Wuyou boss, you played wonderfully . I will come over to cheer you on every time you play. Remember, you must live well, because you must die in my hands in the end. Hahahaha , okay, today's game is here. Let's continue here tomorrow . Fight, walk, walk, walk , hit, hit, hit , crazy , beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death , hit, hit, hit, hit. Fight hard, it 's so good, it's so good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good , good , good, good, good, good, good , good, good , good , good , good , good, good, good, good, good, good, good , good , good, good , good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good . Du Jiangang defeated Du Jian, Han Jiang, Wild Wolf, and the four of them in these two days. They will compete in the finals. Wait a minute, we will draw lots to decide who is the opponent. Stop and let them kill each other . Hahahahahaha . Jun, look at what will happen if Wuying fights against Du Jiangang. Hahahahaha. We are going to have a good show tomorrow. Your opponent is very strong. I want to see how you are beaten to death by others . Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Come come on, come on, come on, come on, let's keep up, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on. Comrade Xia Yundong, I could almost see his arm just now. I 'm going to compete with him tomorrow. I have to confirm his identity before the competition . Hurry up and get in. Don't waste your time looking at something and making a noise. If you want to fight, there's a competition outside. Call me. I want you to be the shopkeeper. I want to change cells. I will live in a cell with him again. I can't eat. What do you say? Say it again. I want to change cells. You, you, beat me. You beat me. I won't go to the competition arena tomorrow . What's going on? The chief, Wuyingfei, is shouting that he wants to change cells. If he doesn't change, he won't go on stage tomorrow . These people don't know if they can come back alive after they go on stage . Just follow their complaints and let them change cells . It's your room and that room. Go quickly. Click in, come in quickly, Mr. Du, I saw your kung fu in the ring today. Which sect are you from? Oh, the Bagua sect. Our martial arts is inherited from Dong Haichuan. The sect uses the Bagua Ghost Palm. Mr. Du, your kung fu is so good. How come I got caught by someone and can't mention it? This little devil sealed my martial arts gym. You even caught me inexplicably. This country is in ruins. You said that we Chinese have no good martial arts and are still being slaughtered by others. Really, Mr. Du, what you said is so right. The little devil will not kill Chinese people for a day. There will never be peace. Young man, hey, how did you come in? Mr. Du, to tell you the truth , I am the New Fourth Army. A while ago, the idiot was injured and was caught by them. Ordinarily, you are also a man. Thanks, I should let you go. Who is in here? I don't want to go out. I think it's like this. Let 's just make friends with force tomorrow. How about we stop here ? Thank you very much, Mr. Du. Mr. Du, I have a grievance. Could you please let me take a look at your arm ? Why? It is said that a person with profound martial arts skills can be seen from his arms . Well, this martial arts practitioner pays attention to practicing internally in one breath and externally training the muscles, bones and skin. After practicing for a long time, his arms and legs will naturally be different from others. Look. Look, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah , ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah . Next, the second game will be played between Wu Ying and Du Jiangang. Young man, you must kill more Japanese when you go out. Mr. Du, don't worry. I will definitely kill more Japanese when I go out. Hey, what do you mean by that? Hahaha, I want to give you a ride . Old sir , we have agreed that you must not be merciful. Hahaha, you will be more capable than me after you go out . See what I say. Yes, let's go. I think Wuying must not be Du Jiangang's opponent. Look at how he died in the end. The game has started , ah , ah, ah , ah, ah , ah, ah, you beasts, you have gone too far, you are overestimating your capabilities, you are so inhumane, you are still human, you are , you are not human, you have all seen this, this is the result of going against the imperial army, if anyone dares Learning from him is a dead end. Tomorrow the game will continue with you , Wuying, being stiff against you. It's too bullying. It's too much. Yes, it's too much. It's too much . Today is the most exciting final. The two sides facing you are Wuying Hanjiang. The winner of both of you. The qualifications and wings are blocked or the shady background is blocked. The cross-stroke competition is about to begin . King, stop it. Come on. Catch the Han traitor. Catch me quickly. Catch him. You are Xia Yunfeng. Yes, I am Xia Yunfeng. Baga, go tell Mr. Hatoyama about the calamity of the Black Dragon Society. We have already Caught it, sir. Today, Mr. Hatoyama is at Mr. Hatoyama's residence. I am a poet. Please answer the phone. Why? He went to Shiroda Warehouse. Hahaha. These cultural relics are the students I collected from East China . You are becoming more and more capable in such a short time. It's not easy to collect so many antiques in China. It's a pity that these good things are left in China. I plan to transport them to Shanghai and then to our Empire of Japan. Well , that's fine. Your phone number. I'm Mr. Kuyamaoka . What is this? Oh, that's great. You guys send him to the Narita warehouse right away. Hahahahahaha. Why is brother so happy? Student, you brought me good luck. Xia Yunfeng, the traitor in our Black Dragon Club, has been caught. I asked them to send him right away. Come here and chop off his head with your own hands, student. Congratulations to my brother. I'm going to contact the freighter and I'll be right back. You are reporting that the Major caught the traitor in the Black Dragon Society . I have already told Mr. Hatoyama. Why did Mr. Hatoyama say that he wanted me to take this? Take Xia Yunfeng to the Narita warehouse and take him away immediately. Hey, let him go. Hey, let's go , let's go, wait. I'm going to go too . What are you going to do ? I'm going to collect the reward. Well, this person was exposed because of me. I'll give it to you. Shouldn't I receive the reward for my merits ? How dare you, a pig-headed man, come up to the Imperial Army's escaped demon ? Actually, I already knew that he was from the Black Dragon Society , so I tore his sleeves to expose him . And I also know many members of the Black Dragon Society. Are you afraid that I will leak the secret if you don't let me go ? Wuying, you must know that if our imperial army wants to kill you, it will be as simple as crushing an ant to death. Will we be afraid of you? Hei Mulong, you are just a bastard , hahahahahahahahaha Hahahahahaha, Fifth Master will definitely make your death very embarrassing. Take him away, take Gao Fei away , I can go out if you want , but there is one condition. As long as you can defeat the shady young people, I will definitely let you go. You guys, hurry up and see what happens. Xia Yufengpiao, why hasn't the shadow come out yet ? What can I say? Don't ask. There is an accident in the plan. So everyone , follow me to save Xia Yunfeng, the second son, Cai Biao, you, Liu Fei, and the others are gathered together and ready to respond to the battalion commander at any time. Hello, Mr. Jiushan, I will give this to you. Xia Yunfeng brought you here, Takeuchi Masao, no, no, no , I should call you Xia Yunfeng . I didn't expect that we meet again . In the words of you Chinese, this is called Skynet . This is a place for us Chinese. Sooner or later, you have to go back and you dare to speak harshly when you are about to die . Shi Yanjun, thank you for your hard work. Please go back and replace me. Thank you, Major Akasaka and Major Kuroki, for saying goodbye . I have been waiting for this day for a long time. Today I will kill you Kuroki with my own hands . I think your memory is not very good. You have forgotten how our master and our brother Lu treated you. Today I let you die again after I fell off the cliff . Don't blame me for not giving you a chance . Go and die. What do you think I should do with you? It's fine as you wish . Originally, I wanted to cut you into pieces. If you think about it carefully, you are also a human being. Not a bad opponent. I decided to be merciful and give you a good time. I will cut your head off. The Black Dragon Society will never allow traitors to exist. There is so much nonsense. If you want to take action, hurry up . Oh yeah. I am the white sir of the commando team. Who do I think I am? Well , it turns out that your defeated general killed you. You dare to come and die today. Last time, there was no winner. This time, I will show you what real Chinese Kung Fu is. Do n't talk nonsense with him and kill this bastard. Okay, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah , Ah, good fight , good fight, so pretty, pretty , catch me again, don't move , don't run away, the shady army has eaten enough. I win, let me out . If you want to go out , you beat me first, and then I let you out. Talking is not shameless. Here I have the final say to let us out. Brothers, go out. The little devils will not let us out. They never say anything and it doesn't count. Brothers, I fought hard with them today. I killed one and counted one and killed two. We made a profit. Good brothers, it's nothing. Ying is right. Let 's fight with them. Let's rush, rush, rush. Come out, come out and stand. There are too many of them . Let's retreat first. Come on, shoot again. Brothers, rush out . One two three four come on get up. The stinky boy is not dead. I won't die that easily . No, I won't die that easily. You say so many stinks. Oh, oh, oh , oh, oh , oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Xu Zi, you came just in time. He is a traitor. Kill him. Hey, none of the three of them can escape. Kill him. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhly Brother , don't worry , I will avenge you. You see, the result is this report, Major. The scouts we sent out came back and reported that the commandos of the New Fourth Army have been staying in the Cross Department and have not left, right? It seems that they want to fight to the death with us. Okay, then I'll help them all come over and let's discuss how to attack Shao Zuo. Well, I've been at Cross Shop for a long time and I know the terrain there very well. There is a very hidden path on the back mountain in the northwest. If they can't resist the attack of our imperial army , We will definitely retreat from that path. In this experiment, you bring a group of imperial troops and the Red Alliance Army and attack them from the front together. Hi, Ishihara and Haruko, the three of us will outflank them from behind. As soon as they retreat, we will Kill them all in one fell swoop. Major, can you let me lead a group of men alone ? Ma Chunzi, do you have any ideas? I've known for a long time that there will be a day when I will attack Cross Shop , so I've already made preparations to keep a hand there. Now is the time to put it to use. Well, Ishihara, then you will lead a team of people to cooperate with Chunzi's actions. Hey, comrades, after Jiang Xiaoyu escapes, I guess he will attack our cross shop with wings. But the front of the cross shop is not their main direction of attack. Do you think Jiang Xiaoyu is right? We are very familiar with this area because he knows that we have a hidden retreat road in the back mountain , so he will definitely ambush us there with his wings. The captain knows so many of our secrets. This time, if he comes with his wings, we can kill the captain together. Let me go and avenge my sister. Yes, yes, everyone, please be quiet. I will arrange the battle plan now. Shadow, take Dapeng and Dakui to the front of the Cross Shop to set up an ambush. The rest, follow me . The strength is placed on the hidden road in the back mountain to stop them. The young man brought that cannon to the division headquarters. They have allocated some shells to us. Let's just blow those bastards back to his grandma's house and bomb them well . Haha, that's right. Blow them back. Liu Fei, let me ask you if you want to avenge your sister. I must kill that Japanese woman with my own hands. That's right. I also want to kill this stinky Japanese bitch with my own hands. My whole reputation will be ruined in his hands. This Japanese woman is cunning. It's not easy for us to kill Duduan. I believe that by then he will definitely come with the little devils to attack Cross Slope. At that time, his target will definitely be you and me, because currently, you and your sister are the only ones who have seen our insider comrade. Your sister was killed by him , so he will definitely try to capture you alive and ask us about our insider comrade Cai from your mouth. What you said makes sense. What should I do? Tell me. Liu Fei listens to me and waits until the Japanese come. I will ambush by the creek. You must find a way to lure Jiang Xiaoyu there . The enemy is coming. Prepare for battle. In front of you is the village entrance of Cross Shop. Prepare to attack. Huang Xiejun came up first, Mulan, who is behind us. Wait a minute . This area should be the pass of the mountain behind the cross slope. We will ambush here in a moment. When the New Fourth Army evacuates here, we will catch them by surprise here and open fire on Suzuki. Wei Shaozuo and the others have already opened fire. There is no way here. Just open a way here for me . Inside, David, there is no one here . I know where they are. Come with me. Captain, aim and capture that person alive. Hurry up and lead the team. Go support the mausoleum, they go quickly, you guys come with me , we are attacking Cross Shop now, come , stop, stop, stop, don't run , stop, stop, stop, stop , stop, gather, gather , Xiao Xiaoyu, you beast, come out to me, get out of here , Brother Cai, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, Yeah, you despicable little devil , I will send you to the west today . Hey , hey, ah, ah , oh, my God. Brother, evacuate Captain Suzuki . Captain Suzuki reported to the commander that we did not catch up to Bai San and Baga, although we occupied the cross slope. But they still let these people run away. Major, Major, Major, Major Suzuki, Captain Haruko Haruko. Take Kawako back. Hi, give him a rich burial. Hi, someone will set fire to this village. Hey Bai 3, I will kill you today. Avenge my brother , ah, go to hell. What are you saying that the Japanese will use gas bombs to kill everyone? Yes, they will kill everyone after they get the cultural relics, so we must stop them. The key is that we don't know Brother Bai and Lu yet. Brother, where are they? How can we kill them all? Don't say discouragement and don't give up . Yes, you are right. We must find a way to rescue the people in Guigu Mountain. Even if we risk our lives , we must not let the cultural relics fall into the hands of the Japanese. Right Brother Bai, Captain, you came at the right time. There is a new situation. Zhu Yifu asked Hong Dapao to go up the mountain to get the cultural relics . Chiban set up a conspiracy to kill everyone with gas bombs . If that doesn't work, I have to go up the mountain to inform my father. Okay, hurry up and go. Be careful on the road. Well, monkeys, let's go , let's go and look for them separately. We must not let Akaban fire those gas bombs. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Major Akasaka, I'm ready to leave for the mountain. Okay , Master Lei Keiko, we're ready to go. As long as we see Zhou We will act immediately upon the signal sent by the Chief of Staff. Please arrange some tasks, Master. Master , prepare the poison gas bombs. As soon as you see the signal flare , fire. Hey Master, Lei Huizi, you will lead the large group of people to gather at the foot of the mountain for emergencies. Do you understand, Chief of Staff ? Well, looking back at the heroes of the mountain, our Central Chief of Staff of Huang Xiejun has arrived at our head. He has been waiting for a long time. Please surrender and lead the way . Chief of Staff ah, Chief of Staff You Laozhou is here. Why haven't you seen Adjutant Yao? Adjutant Yao has other official business and cannot come. Hong The boss must have not received the news on the mountain that Commander Niu suddenly became seriously ill and passed away. Commander Niu , he, he, he, is dead. Now the imperial army only sent me to negotiate with you with full authority . Don't worry. I will agree to everything Commander Niu promised you. And Miss Hong. You don't have to get married anymore , really, Xiao Qi , open all the boxes , please Hongda . I didn't expect Hongda to be the master. These are all your urine. You can establish an independent group in the mountain. From now on, we will be a family. Chief of Staff Zhou, you are so powerful. I'm honest. It's not a big deal. How sincere are you, a big boss ? Bring the cultural relics up . You two are coming with me. The mountain is so big. How can I find it? Hey , I have an idea. Since the enemy used poison gas bombs , he must be upwind. Now Dongfeng is following. I'm coming, Major . The wind direction has changed. If Zhou Yufeng doesn't come out, we may be hurt. We will also blow the poisonous gas to Chaoyang City. Keep him here for one more minute . Chief of Staff Zhou's cultural relics are all here. Well, please come and carry the box away. Stop it , Dad . You can't give these cultural relics to them. You are finally back. Listen to me. The Japs have prepared gas bombs to blow us up. Why is there such a thing ? Well, don't move . Listen, don't move . I will kill your boss and your eldest lady. Zhou Yifu, you are so untrustworthy. Huh, credit. How much is credit ? Besides, you are all bandits. What do you believe? Xiaoqing prepares the flares and informs Major Akasaka to fire off the firecrackers. Hey , don't touch it, little devil. You are such bastards . I don't care whether you live or die. If you dare to move, I'll throw this bomb together with the Death Star. Wait a minute. They have poisonous gas bombs in their hands. It's not convenient for you now. Quickly inform the 10 people and beautiful bastards at the foot of the mountain and let them prepare for the attack . We can still break into Guigu Mountain without gas bombs . Hey, don't move, don't move. Don't move . Put down your guns. Your boss and eldest lady are all in my hands. Whoever dares to cause death, I will kill him. The Japanese have captured. The Japanese have already conquered. The cultural relics have been obtained. Hong Dapao is of no use to you if you keep it . Brothers of the great master , all come to me to avenge the great master. Now that your eldest lady is in my hands, who should I look at? If you dare to be so presumptuous, I'm going to kill him. Get out of my way . Brother , don't be stunned. This is a poison gas bomb . Everyone, get ready to fight. Come on Captain, my master and the soldiers in the water are gone. This time is enough. It's okay to drink a pot of water from the devil . Give me a fight. Shut the door. Bitch Liu Bei. You two are attacking, poking the devil so that you can beat Liu Bei and Liu Zi. Come on, stand behind me. If you want to fight, give me your gun. Put down me and kill your eldest lady. Brothers, please leave me alone. Don't move. Don't move . Don't move. Don't move. Put down your guns. Dali, fight with them . Leave me alone. Revenge for my father. Revenge for me. Dali . The eldest lady, the head of the family is dead. We can't live without you in Haunted Mountain anymore. Put down your gun , put down your strength , put it down quickly , don't let it go , stop it, don't let it go, put it all down. I can't put it down, don't let it go , let's take revenge. Fight with them . I'll kill you now. Stop it . Don't move now. Leave him alone. Major Sesame has found all the cultural relics. They are all here. Kill them all. You are all beasts. Stop killing them first. Major, these bandits are extremely ferocious. They are a source of disaster. Why not wipe them all out? I know these bandits will all die. But there is still a use in keeping them now. We have hostages in hand. The New Fourth Army outside now dare not rush in. Do you understand? Hey , listen , listen, people outside, everyone on Haunted House Mountain is in our hands. If you dare to attack, just attack them. Kill them all, go away, wait and see what happens. It seems that the kid didn't realize that the captain behind here suddenly got angry. The kid may have taken control of the valley . So they split up to investigate. After 10 minutes, they will gather together and Wang Ziliang's cottage is really true. The Red Army was breached. They were all captured and taken hostage. Let's take a long-term view . That's great. I'm great. All the cultural relics are intact. Major, although the cultural relics are now in hand , there are still so many hostages outside. But now the New Fourth Army is surrounding us outside and we can't get out. It's troublesome, Major. Why don't we take the hostages and break out? No, we just need to wait quietly. What does this mean? Before we set off, Commander Miyamoto had already told us that it would only take about 5 hours to attack Guiya Mountain. What if If we don't go out during this period, he will naturally send troops to attack here. By then, no one from the New Fourth Army will be able to get out. Captain Hongying and the others were all captured by the Japanese and taken hostage. I'm afraid they will take the hostages and break out from here. No, they won't take the risk. The purpose of breaking through Akaban is to delay the time. The purpose is to wait for Miyamoto's reinforcements from Chaoyang City. If we withdraw, all the cultural relics will fall into the hands of the Japanese. All the brothers in Guigushan will be killed by the Japanese. If we don't withdraw for a while, all the Japanese soldiers will be killed. When we get here, none of us can run away. Listen to my quick victory. Liu Wei, Jing'er, you guys here, run over there and explode. I originally meant these explosives to be eaten, but now I can only add stuffing to you. Seal them and seal the Young Master's cultural relics now that they are in hand. What should we do ? To be on the safe side, we send them to the Empire of Japan as quickly as possible. Brothers , do it. Stop it. Comrades, rush, crash, and go . Captain, I'm going to provide preliminary support. Hurry and get to Japan inside. Let's kill him. Avenge the captain . Come and get ready. Go away. Say no to Cinderella . Say no to Zhao Yifu. You bastard. I want you to die without a burial place. I want to avenge my father. This sword is for my father. This sword is. For the sake of Bai Huizi, the brothers of Gui Gushan, you two should retreat first . Hurry and report to Commander Miyamoto that the situation here is not good. Please ask for support. Hey, go and kill them . I will stay with the shadow to deal with Captain Zhiwan. But stop talking nonsense and go away. Come on. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh that the little devils, one two three four, this Bai Keiko, it is not good for us if you continue to waste like this. I will cover you and hurry down the mountain to report to Commander Miyamoto for reinforcements. If this does not work, you will be in more danger. Quickly execute the order. Hey . Even if we die together today, you can't even think of leaving Guitani Mountain. Akasaka Ryuichi, I told you that this is the territory of the Chinese . You came to China just to invade . I will let you die here today, little devil. This is your burial place. Ahhhh . come on come on ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh , Captain , are you okay? It 's okay . Let's kill the master. We've also killed the master. We have killed all the devils outside. Good brothers, little devils, reinforcements will be here soon . Hurry up and evacuate with civil and military forces. Major Ishigakure by the pool. Ishihara has taken over all the trash and useless things. I'm sorry, Commander. It's not the Mongolian Imperial Army that is incompetent, but the Xie Fourth Army. This team is too powerful. Don't say it. I didn't expect the Chinese to be so difficult to deal with . They have a poor country and weak weapons. But their nation is united, mighty and unyielding. It is too difficult to defeat such a nation. It is too difficult. Do you know that China is like a sleeping dragon ? Now that this dragon has been awakened by us , think about what a terrible future awaits our Imperial Army of Japan . Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Report to Commander Akasaka Major is not dead yet. What are you talking about? Major Akasaka is not dead yet . What are you saying again? Major Akasaka is not dead yet. That 's great . Send it back to Japan. Send it back to Japan quickly. This time we failed again . Captain Bai, I will leave the cultural relics to you . Hongying, you can just go with us. We are used to being free and we are afraid that we will not be able to serve as the New Fourth Army . Yes, we are afraid that we will not be able to maintain your discipline. Everyone was embarrassed when we got it. What are your plans for the future? Don't worry. Even though Guigushan is gone , we will still find a place to live, but we will never bully the people. Although we did not join the New Fourth Army , we will always be good friends. If there is another one in the future, If we have the chance, we can fight side by side . Take care, take care, take care, brothers, let's go.