JUDY WOODRUFF: Chinese technology has helped But critics say it is facilitating a surveillance Tonight, we begin two stories focusing on It's part of our series &quot;China: Power &amp; Prosperity.&quot; With the support of the Pulitzer Center, Nick more connected. NICK SCHIFRIN: In China's Lipu Mountains, of Guilin is nestled into a valley and built 10,000 years. Today, this old town is getting older. The population is older, and often needs medical The closest hospital is far. So, on this day, they line up for a mobile Visiting specialists have a small room in eye specialists to check for cataracts. In this clinic, everything is electronic. And all the patient records and data feed It's made by the company Ping An, and the Local doctor Luo Jiangshan says the technology DR. LUO JIANGSHAN, Guilin General Practitioner patients had to go so far away. It was a big burden. Now, with this platform, it saves both money NICK SCHIFRIN: For decades, a country that on so-called barefoot doctors to provide remote Today, technology, from medicine, to telecommunications, the country. JESSICA TAN, Co-CEO, Ping An: China is quite country. So we have very, very uneven distribution. Technology helps to bridge those gaps and like this. NICK SCHIFRIN: Jessica Tan is the co-CEO of China's Silicon Valley. Ping An boomed financially into the world's But now it's celebrating by turning old insurance Last month, Ping An unveiled new facial recognition Those markings judge whether she's a good database. A separate application uses facial recognition are lying about their identity by examining JESSICA TAN: When you are nervous, there are Verifying the person who they are supposed I think already better than the human eye. NICK SCHIFRIN: And those human eyes, China's and more data on their phones. And, in China, it's big data. Ping An's health care app has 250 million Ping An's car accident app that can automatically And China has developed so recently, the majority or borrowed money, or earned a credit score. So to choose loan applicants, Ping An's developed users enter into their phones. JESSICA TAN: Having the expertise to change a credit report, a score that people trust. So we're able to do that based on your mobile Do you splurge on your spending? If you have a good credit record, you get So I think the idea is then there's incentive to share. NICK SCHIFRIN: But in communist China, who Like Ping An, the government is now converting It's called Sharp Eyes. And those eyes are electronic, thanks to the The five most surveilled cities in the world China now has more than 200 million cameras, conference. And cameras use software that recognize not then can then track their location as they That allows cameras to judge behavior. In Shenzhen, cameras watch this intersection. If people jaywalk, they're publicly shamed Do you think, because that camera is there, CHEN HAOBING, China (through translator): They are afraid to be seen doing something FENG XUE, China (through translator): If you For example, if you cross the red light, your NICK SCHIFRIN: Behavior change is exactly And the credit score system is so important, Credit Magazine.&quot; Wu Xiaoyan is the editor in chief. WU XIAOYAN, Editor in Chief, &quot;National Credit system's main purpose is to build a credible This system has become an effective measure For example, on the bus, people with regular with good scores only pay 80 percent of that. NICK SCHIFRIN: Rewarding good behavior all is enshrined in her magazine. When I look in this magazine I see an honor WU XIAOYAN (through translator): Those on behavior. Those on the black list are people whose behaviors NICK SCHIFRIN: Does it work? Does rewarding people who act well and punishing well? WU XIAOYAN (through translator): Of course NICK SCHIFRIN: And something about that question She and her staff walked out of the interview But the microphones were still rolling and WOMAN (through translator): What kind of question WOMAN (through translator): Don't talk about Talk about companies, businesses. MAN (through translator): We need to be calm. We cannot refuse to be interviewed, not too NICK SCHIFRIN: Ten minutes later, she did Everything OK? She said everything was OK. But the government's critics say everything is becoming Big Brother. Companies that use the social credit system improves people's behavior. But critics say that the government can use anyone who opposes or criticizes the Communist In Hong Kong, protesters say mainland China So, when they demonstrate, they climb up ladders And protesters also cover up their faces. This 21-year-old and her friends declined punish them. WOMAN (through translator): Although I'm wearing down our faces. And maybe they will just use computers and having all our identifications and our informations. We are scared about it. NICK SCHIFRIN: And protesters fear surveillance They organize these rallies offline because apps. WOMAN (through translator): We are super scared and we will get caught based on these informations. NICK SCHIFRIN: Protesters' fears are accurate, the government. He was willing to sit for an interview, but So he met us in our hotel room. Are you, as a constant critic of the government, ZHANG LIFAN, Historian (through translator): We can feel this surveillance all the time. The Chinese authorities use a network of cameras as well as various mobile phone apps, to monitor Surveillance is indeed omnipresent. NICK SCHIFRIN: And that surveillance happens Every day, Chinese citizens send more than most popular messaging service. If you type in something sensitive, like a in Mandarin, the recipient never receives ZHANG LIFAN (through translator): Sometimes, other. I noticed that, whenever foreign media reporters the police would always show up downstairs. And I have noticed that the police who follow NICK SCHIFRIN: Huawei is a $100 billion phone provider of telecom equipment. U.S. officials describe it as the symbol of beholden to the Communist Party, alongside MIKE POMPEO, U.S. Secretary of State: As a can rightfully demand access to data flowing Why would anyone grant such power to a regime NICK SCHIFRIN: The Trump administration has technology to Huawei. But the company is expanding its 5G, or fifth-generation Peng says business is booming. VINCENT PENG, Vice President, Huawei: All Huawei. We sign 50 contracts with our major customers And this year, we will deliver 150,000 base I think that is the fact. NICK SCHIFRIN: And that expansion of Chinese for China and the U.S. That story tomorrow night. For the &quot;PBS NewsHour,&quot; I'm Nick Schifrin