Hey, welcome back to pick up limes. Today, we're gonna be making some incredibly delicious desserts. If you've been hanging out with us for a little while, you know that I'm all for making wholesome recipes whenever you can, we do it pretty often. But sometimes there's a place or an occasion or a craving that calls for something particularly indulgent. So today we're gonna be making three epic desserts and in case you missed it, we also recently launched a pickup limes e - cookbook just to celebrate our upcoming three-year anniversary. It's gonna be available just for a limited time, So if you think you might be interested in checking it out link to our webshop in the description box below. For now though, let's get started on making the desserts. For the first recipe we're making a massive chocolate chip caramel skillet cookie, it seriously is so so good. So to a bowl we're gonna first add two tablespoons of ground flax seeds plus a quarter cup of water. Give it a stir and let it sit to gel and meanwhile, we're gonna make the caramel sauce. So to a saucepan, we're gonna add half of a cup of sugar. Here we're using raw sugar and a quarter cup of water. Once you've brought it to a gentle boil, We're then gonna add half of a cup of coconut cream. Which is just something we scooped off the top of a can of coconut milk. It doesn't have to be super solid, We just want the thicker part of the milk. So we're gonna continue to stir this at a gentle boil until you see the mixture start to thicken which might take about, Five to eight minutes or so. When you start to notice it slightly stick to the back of your stirring spoon you can then remove it from the heat it will continue to thicken as it cools. Now back to the bowl, We're gonna add one cup of vegan margarine, half of a cup of raw sugar, half of a cup of brown sugar, And a teaspoon of vanilla extract. then cream this together using a fork. We're then gonna add two cups of flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, half a teaspoon of salt, and a third of a cup of dairy free dark chocolate that we just chopped up. Stir this into the mixture until it's all combined and then we're gonna spread half of the batter onto the base of a ten inch or 26 centimeter oven safe skillet. After that, we're gonna cover it with about a quarter cup worth of the caramel sauce. Spread that out as well, and then dollop the remaining dough over top the caramel And then smooth it out. If you'd like you can top it with a bit of reserved chocolate chunks for presentation and then pop it in the oven at 350 Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius for about 30 to 35 minutes or until the top is golden. This recipe is best to enjoy when it's warm right out of the oven. You can top it with some extra caramel sauce, some coconut whip or like we did here with some vegan ice cream. It's like a cake meets a cookie. It's crunchy on the outside, soft and warm on the inside. Make sure you put a whole bunch of ice cream on there, grab a bunch of spoons, invite your friends invite your family. You won't want to be left alone in a room with this thing. It's pretty dangerous. Next up we're gonna be making a refreshing and light dessert the coconut lemon custard tart. So to a small food processor We're gonna add about seven digestive cookies, and a tablespoon of melted coconut oil, and blend this until you get a fine sand like consistency. If you don't have a blender, you can simply crush the cookies using a rolling pin and then mix it with the coconut oil in a bowl. So we're gonna pour this crust into a seven inch or 18 centimeter Springform pan. And use your hands or the bottom of a cup to press it down along the bottom and the sides of the pan. For the next part we're gonna be needing some silken dessert tofu. It's already really soft, So you can't really press it too much, But just try to let any excess water drip off before you add it to a high-speed blender. We're then also gonna add to the blender the zest from one whole lemon plus the juice from the lemon and a third of cup of full fat coconut milk from a can, two tablespoons of sugar, a tablespoon of arrowroot or cornstarch, and two teaspoons of pure vanilla extract. Then we're gonna blend this on high until it's nice and creamy. When it's done, we're gonna pour this mixture into the prepared crust and lightly tap the pan on a solid surface. Just to get rid of any bubbles. Then pop it in the oven at 350 Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius for about 25 to 30 minutes or until the edges are golden then the top is lightly cracked. Then we're gonna remove it from the oven and let it cool at room temperature for about half an hour, before transferring it to the fridge to set for at least three hours or overnight. I always like to serve the tart with some stewed berries, all you have to do for that is heat up some frozen berries on the stove until they're hot and cooked through. And when you're ready to enjoy it simply remove the tart from the pan decorate the serving plate with some fresh berries, if you'd like. You can top it with some thinly sliced Lemon or some coconut flakes, and then it's ready to be served because you've left it in the fridge a little while, You should find that it cuts and transfers really easily to a plate. Top it with some stewed or fresh berries and enjoy. For the last recipe we're making a dessert that needs no introduction the ooey gooey cinnamon bun. It's a bit of a process to make but it's really beyond worth it all in the end. so we're gonna first begin by adding a cup of plant-based milk to a saucepan and heat it up until you see it start to just steam. You want it to be a warm bath temperature and not too hot. Otherwise the yeast is going to die. So once you've removed it from the heat You're gonna add a tablespoon of quick yeast and then stir it in. We're gonna let this sit for about five minutes. While that rests to a large bowl, we're gonna add three cups of flour, 1/4 cup of regular or raw sugar, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, and a teaspoon of salt. Then mix it to combine By now you should see that the yeast has started to create a bit of foam a little bit of bubbles on top of the milk, we're now I'm gonna add that yeast mixture to the flour mixture. we're gonna add a quarter of a cup of melted coconut oil and mix it to combine. First using a spoon and then you can Get in there with your hands, Folding and gently kneading it like bread. Then we're gonna cover it and let it sit and rest for about an hour. While the dough rests, to a medium sized bowl, we're gonna add 1 cup of packed brown sugar. Half of a cup of pecans, that we've crushed into little pieces, and 2 teaspoons of ground cinnamon. Then give it a stir and set it aside. After the hour is up, we're gonna lightly flour a clean surface and then transfer the dough to the floured surface. We're gonna dust the top of the dough with a bit more flour as well. And then using a rolling pin, We're gonna roll it out into a half a centimeter thick rectangle. For the next step. You're gonna need a quarter of a cup of melted coconut oil, Which we're first going to use to oil the inside of a baking dish. And then we're gonna pour the rest of it on top Of the rolled out dough. Spread it over the surface. It might seem like a lot, but don't worry, It's all gonna get soaked up by the sugar cinnamon and pecan mixture that we're then going to sprinkle and spread even overtop of that. Then comes the rolling. We're gonna gently roll the dough from one end to the other creating What's going to become the rolls in the cinnamon bun. And when you're finished using a sharp knife, you're gonna cut the rolled dough to create 12 buns. They're gonna be about three centimeters or one-and-a-half inches thick. I did this first by cutting the dough in half, Then cutting each of those in half, and then cutting each of those sections into thirds. We're then gonna transfer each piece to the baking dish, and it's okay to leave a little bit of space between the rolls because they're gonna expand as they're baking in the oven. When it's all been transferred we're gonna cover it again and let it sit for one more hour. while the buns are resting, We're gonna mix together 1/4 of a cup of plant-based milk, plus a tablespoon of maple syrup into a bowl and set it aside. After The hour is up, We can uncover the cinnamon buns and pop them in the oven at 350 Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius for about 10 minutes. While this bakes we're gonna make the icing. For this you're gonna need one cup of powdered icing sugar, 3 tablespoons of a vegan margarine, 1 tablespoon of unsweetened plant-based milk, and a teaspoon of vanilla extract. Here We're using a clear vanilla extract, just so the icing retains its white color. But you can use regular vanilla extract as well if that's what you have. Then we're going to whip it up. After the buns have been cooking for 10 minutes, We're gonna remove it from the oven and spoon over top the plant milk and maple syrup mixture that we just made. This is a little secret step that helps the cinnamon buns get nice and crunchy on the outside, But soft and gooey on the inside. We're then gonna pop it back in the oven for another 20 to 25 minutes until the top is nice and golden. When you're ready to enjoy it gently run a knife or spatula around the perimeter of the cinnamon bun and, gently lift it out of the baking dish top it with some of the icing if you'd like and enjoy it while it's warm. We've made these cinnamon buns for a few events already and everyone always asked for the recipe. So here it is. I hope you guys enjoyed these dessert recipes if you're getting together with anyone for the holidays, desserts are always a much appreciated Thing to bring along with you. The full breakdown to all of the recipes as always are on the blog. Those links are in the description box below, and you can also find these recipes plus all of the other recipes we have ever created to date In the new Pick up Limes, e cook book. Oh that's over 200 recipes, plus twenty exclusive recipes that you won't find anywhere else. So if you want to check it out, link in description box and thanks in advance for your support. It really helps us to be able to continue to create content and recipes for you guys. Thanks a lot for watching and Happy Holidays! We'll see you in the next video!