The Early Muslim expansion changed the fate In our first season, we have covered the very in Iraq and Syria. This second documentary will describe the and North Africa, showing how the Rashidun wider region. These long videos are extremely time-consuming commenting, and sharing! It is probably a good idea to start our video From Ajnadayn in 634 to Alexandria in 641, picked apart the veteran armies of two separate, The question remains: how did these earliest the caliphate with such speed? Akin to most other regions and centers of world, Arabia was a violent place in its own Far from being comparable to the large, hegemonic its many tribes to further their own agendas Peninsula and most of its people are more folk of the great Eurasian steppe. Fighting against rival tribes and defending part of life, a fact which played a key role Motivated in part by vicious terrain that the dominant tactic was the so-called razzia pillage and take slaves. Such a wealth of common martial experience compared to the agriculturalists and urban population. This pre-Islam tribal society provided a solid army, but until the prophet's lifetime and 'army', as such. With very few exceptions, every single adult for their endeavours with booty, honour or who were attempting to do the same. With the advent of Islam, leadership of Muhammad Peninsula under the first Rashidun caliph, hinterland alike came under one rule, and This warlike population, who until recently struggles, could now be directed en masse empires beyond the desert frontier. Although now turned to a single purpose; to armies remained in many ways what they had As the assault on Byzantine and Sassanid territory empires were not going to be met on their It was to be a mobile war of razzia which towards attacking the other, simply could To this purpose, a primary strategic weapon the unassuming camel. Accustomed to travelling across incredibly workhouse pack animals were used to lethal Camel-mounted armies of Muslim infantry would from unexpected, undefended angles, bleeding back into the desert, where their enemies Imagine playing a game of Civilization and terrain near your key resource-producing regions, because you don't need to. After all, if no powerful enemy can get there, However, one of your underdog opponents then to strike at the heart of your most crucial Worse still, you can't chase them back through If you try, you give them the opportunity This is what the established empires must Khalid ibn Al Walid - arguably the greatest mobility to frustrate and exhaust a Sassanid example of its use. During an attack in 633, Khalid planted his general Hormuz, then stationed at Kazima to His heavily-armoured force embarked on a tiring When the commander got there however, he discovered and were beelining back towards Kazima. Bound to march in the defence of such a strategically troops on a countermarch. By the time Hormuz arrived back near the city, state to move, let alone fight, and in a terrible Meanwhile, Khalid's well-mounted, leisurely to prepare adequately. In the subsequent Battle of Chains, rejuvenated outmaneuvered, physically drained army. The average Arab warrior of the early Islamic in form than a soldier from the Byzantine Infantry and cavalry were both prominent, horse-rearing ground. Moreover, the distinction between foot and Changing with the situation, cavalry might might be dubbed mobile infantry were frequently Equipment, relatively similar between both by the individual warrior or tribesman, rather as a state. However, potential combatants who were indeed might be assisted by wealthy kinsmen, neighbors Even for the well-to-do in Muslim society, in the early days. There was nothing overly unique about Muslim Spear, sword and bow were the primary methods possessed particularly long spears and remarkably As this short sword was carried in a shoulder-baldric that this style was copied or inspired by similar manner. Metal armour seems to have struck both hot beginning, as is evident in a saying of the He describes mail armour as 'Keeping our and yet always a strong protection'. Originating from the scalding hot and sun-bleached seemed anathema to Arab warriors at first, on when worn, not to mention its encumbering We can imagine the more well-off Arab warriors to their comrades about it and be met with burdensome thing. Therefore, it may have been that use of armour to obtain it, in addition to the willingness Conversely, it might also have been the case while rear-line infantry and archers went Whatever the case, a notable and repeated was trouble facing enemy archers. It became so bad that, whilst fighting the Islamic warriors suffered what became known It might have been that this, in addition a reluctance to wear heavy armour and helmets. Two other crucial 'units' which partially symbolise the Muslim style of war during this force and Mubarizun. Rather than being a default part of the Islamic the mobile guard in particular was in fact the great general Khalid Ibn al-Walid in the After the commander's triumph at Ajnadayn of the Muslim invasion would have to pierce So, sifting through the 8,000 strong army most veteran, most elite and deadliest fighters which was known as the 'Army of Movement', In an army whose warriors were already battle-hardened la creme. One of those handpicked 4,000 was the near Not only did this ferocious lieutenant supposedly Chains and the Battle of Yarmouk, but he was Arab reinforcements to the Battle of al-Qadissiyah. If our sources are to be believed, he also clash as an energetic cavalry commander. That was the sheer quality of soldiers assembled As a coherent and unified force, the mobile sword of Allah as a lethal mounted reserve The unit could plug a hole in allied lines or it could sweep around the flanks of an the battle. Under Khalid's generalship, it played both Despite its fame and flashy style of warfare, short-lived entity, which nevertheless served When Khalid was dismissed from his post by simply disbanded and its members dispatched of conquest. Many more of its warriors apparently passed few who survived accompanied Amr Ibn al-As The Mubarizun, translated as 'duelists' would expect of a warrior bearing their title. The bravest men in all the Arab armies, Mubarizun or Persian champion in the ritualised single Arab champions were particularly deadly, gaining As victors they would bring pride to their and conversely demoralise the enemy force. Still, despite their successes, Muslim forces of heavy casualty figures and manpower replenishment to deal with. Part of this shortfall was made up by non-Arab quickly became key cogs in the overall machine As early as the Battle of Al-Qadissiyah, 4,000 went over to the Muslim side. So great was this coup that the defecting land of their own choosing, to closely associate preference and to be paid salaries sometimes These and other such traitors to the Sassanid 'red people'. This phenomenon became so prevalent that, the Siege of Shushtar, a famous unit of elite led by one of Yazdegerd's most senior and caliph's side. Not only did these most capable of soldiers Islam, but they were given in exchange the the new town of Basra and a position of honour While a massive amount of Byzantine territory which they inflicted on the Sassanid state, lack of faith in their leadership. Persian civilians and soldiers alike seemed at the slightest opportunity, perhaps due of leadership or oppressive taxes. Conversely, Arab soldiers were, as soldiers Atrocities still, no doubt, occurred in great of military conflicts. However, Islamic rules of military conduct, civilisation remained even at the darkest Enemy envoys were to be safeguarded and inviolate, as neutral parties and truces were to be accepted 'Do not kill women or children, or an aged Bakr 'Do not cut down fruit-bearing trees. Do not destroy an inhabited place. Do not slaughter sheep or camels except for Do not burn bees and do not scatter them. Do not steal from the booty and do not be This kind of attitude, which ideally would occupations and populations, is likely to favour. In the previous season, we covered the first East. It started in 633 with the campaign in Mesopotamia of the Rashidun Caliphate Khalid ibn al-Walid. After a string of victories that brought him Khalid entered Syria and again won a number of Yarmouk, which put most of the region under In southern Mesopotamia though, the Sassanid to the battle of al-Qadisiyyah. After the battle that continued for days, Waqqas defeated Rostam's Sassanid force. Amidst the slaughter and unfolding catastrophe centre-right - Jalinus - assumed leadership saving what forces he could. Assembling a small, elite strike force, he unit of Muslim troops away before forming As Sassanid stragglers withdrew across the repelled many attacks from the Muslims and to safety, but it was still a painfully small When the last of them were on the canal's began hastily pulling his men upstream to Unwilling, however, to give the foe any breathing and Shurahbeel to hunt down scattered Persian was sent after Jalinus with 300 elite Arab Not deterred by the dam crossing's destruction, the torrent and forded it before chasing Jalinus' The latter realised he was being chased and while the infantry carried on withdrawing After a short time, the horsemen of Zuhra and charged it, breaking the formation swiftly withdrawal. His heels constantly bit by Zuhra as he did, a final fight, believing that the best way So, he halted his forces, turned about face riding before his troops and challenging Zuhra Galloping forward atop their horses, the two decide the issue once and for all, and once after a hard-fought struggle. Jalinus was killed and his cavalry took flight, riders. By sunset, the 300 reached Najaf, where they With the aim of conquering prosperous Iraq, of the world', Sa'd reorganised his 20,000 retaining his advance guard position. Two weeks after Qadissiyah, he was quickly and given the order to cross the Euphrates. Incoming Sassanid reinforcements under Nakheerjan initially bound for Rostam's now broken Hearing of the defeat, the reinforcement group new orders from Ctesiphon, which came in the Yazdegerd with preventing or delaying the When Firuzan appraised the situation, he decided forces under his command wouldn't be enough So, he instead prepared defensive actions on the road to the Persian capital, so that As his first move, Firuzan ordered the governor Euphrates and gave him some troops to help army started massing near Babylon. When Zuhra's advance guard neared Burs, In a short battle, the holding force of Sassanid During the flight, he died from his wounds. Following this defeat, the new local leader provide information and logistical assistance. From these new allies, Zuhra learned that him was indeed across the Euphrates at Babylon, Zuhra then forwarded this crucial information corps trailing his own to catch up. When they did, the Muslims advanced on Babylon 636, met Firuzan along the river bank and One of the defeated generals, Hormuzan, fled Ahwaz, while Firuzan and the remainder withdrew Sura and Deir Kab along the way2. Zuhra again set off in hot pursuit and, despite armies in his way, managed to defeat them drive to Ctesiphon. By early January of 637, the Muslim leader which made up larger Ctesiphon, where he was To the desert-dwelling Arabs, whose largest the Persian capital was unlike anything most More than just a single city, Ctesiphon had population centres which had been constructed a true metropolis. Because of its unique nature, the Persian in Arabic. On the Tigris' western bank stood Seleucia, proper and a number of peripheral hubs were Perhaps the most majestic sight for those the 40-meter-tall Arch of Khosrow, an architectural Although Firuzan hadn't managed to stop worked, and now the entire western portion with a deep ditch, with manned positions at The Sassanid Shah3 and his advisors also massed bounds of Veh-Ardashir which, as the closest of their defensive efforts. Zuhra ordered an attack on Madain shortly began launching bolts and throwing giant stones causing severe losses and forcing Zuhra's Unable to reply in kind, he sent scouting everywhere came across the Persians' defensive Sa'd arrived at this point and assumed command, wasting his warriors in careless assaults So, instead he established a blockade around his forces down for a long siege. However, Sa'd wasn't content to sit and possible to secure a faster surrender of the western bastion's food supplies. To do this, he had his subcommanders conduct cattle and sheep for the Muslims' own uses by preventing supplies from reaching Veh-Ardashir. In the process of doing so, Arab cavalry seized upon the intercession of a regional leader to pay the Jizya tax. In addition, security for their lives and won the Muslim invaders considerable good Throughout the months long siege, Sa'd's by the sophisticated Sassanid engines of war casualties at their hands remained relatively Unfortunately for the Persians, some of their siege and provided their masters with at least When these contraptions subsequently began the dense concentration of Sassanid soldiers terrible destruction. The fact that the Muslims had even acquired been universally in Persian hands, also badly By mid-March 637 western Madain's situation Persian civilians starved to death in the stray cats and dogs to survive. Beset by such conditions, the Sassanid troops a single strike force and led in a desperate The Muslims arrayed to meet them in pitched Zuhra's corps was in the thick of the action Despite his injury, the valiant Bani Tamin the Persian strike force commander, after ditch. The savage fighting to repulse the Persian calm, during which a Sassanid officer approached would retain whatever territory they had captured However, these conditions were declined with us until we get honey out of the lemons of When these peace overtures were rejected, withdrew from their positions and pulled back Western Ctesiphon was now under Muslim control. Yazdegerd III also sent his family, retainers intended to move his court if the great capital Although behaving as if defeat was already Yazdegerd appointed Rostam's brother Khurrazad city. These generals promptly redeployed their remaining the besiegers' next move. That same evening, on the river's edge of across the Tigris at the glorious Arch of to claim it for Islam. As Muhammad's former companion strategised "What are you waiting for?", followed two days will pass before Yazdegerd departs Time was now of the essence. Another sympathetic local, possibly disillusioned a recent convert to Islam, took Sa'd to deemed unsuitable due to the swift current Rather than make a hasty decision right then, in the morning. During the night, Sa'd supposedly had a waters, only they were flowing incredibly Still, his own Arab cavalry appeared and plunged the other side relatively easily. The next morning, Sa'd convened a conference the cavalry would swim through the river, lead the dangerous attack. The first to put himself forward was Asim military leader, followed by 700 of the most After all necessary preparations had been water and began his crossing. Khurrazad responded by ordering his Persians resistance the Sassanid cavalry who responded from the city came, shouting "Why are you Ctesiphon to defend!" He was at least partially correct. Upon receiving word that the Muslims were departed his capital for Hulwan, taking much After their resistance faltered, most of the for a Sassanid regiment fortified in the White On the Tigris, Sa'd took the opportunity and began ferrying the rest of his warriors of succumbing to the raging waters. One man fell from his horse and fell into down in the nick of time and heaved him up. Despite the myriad dangers of the crossing, army was on the eastern bank of the Tigris The moment Sa'd himself landed, he ordered in the process of which they encountered token The Muslims found their final opposition in by sending forward yet another companion of A Persian by birth, he had converted to Islam his heritage proved a crucial boon. "I am actually one of you, I feel for you." he said upon meeting the defenders, and outlined or death. After a short negotiation, the hopeless palace Ctesiphon - Jewel of the Sassanid imperial in Arab hands, a people who had been a mere Separate columns of Arab riders under Zuhra city almost immediately, moving in different The spoils were plenty - for example, 11 priceless to Heraclius of the Byzantine Empire, the Other treasures now in Sa'd's hands included With the Sassanid capital had come the empire's mass conversions of Persians to Islam. Salman the Persian in particular played a his countrymen the values and beliefs of the Although Ctesiphon and all the 'Suwad' resistance to their conquest by the Muslims the Zagros. We last left the Muslims' Syrian campaign Ibn al Walid's triumph over the Romans at Exhausted from that long six-day struggle, for a month, collecting the bounties of war The scant few of Heraclius' warriors who safety of Northern Syria, leaving Palestine Without an army to check his progress, Abu 636 to decide how best to exploit the situation. Some argued for an attack on the strategic whose garrison could be indefinitely reprovisioned also serve as a potential beachhead for a If the Muslims got it, the campaign for Palestine However, other commanders pointed inland towards - Jerusalem. Not only could this isolated city be strangled loss of their holiest place would be a crushing Unable to come to a decision, Abu Ubaidah The reply was simple - take Jerusalem. So, Abu Ubaidah led the Muslim army straight Realising what was about to happen, Jerusalem's Christian relics, including the true cross, The raiding Arab mobile guard under Khalid before the rest of the army, and this prompted Discovering to their chagrin that its fortifications of just such a siege, the five commanders nevertheless blocked off all passage in and This state of affairs continued for four months few details survive. The situation in the city must have become offered to surrender Jerusalem if Umar himself him. When these terms became known, Shurahbil suggested similar to that of the caliph, should impersonate However, this attempt at deception failed well known in the Levant by this point. When it did, Abu Ubaidah instead dispatched A few weeks later, having made the long journey Khalid and Yazid greeted him, both dressed - a firm enemy of luxury and a proponent of Seeing his generals in such a state of apparent and threw them at the two stunned men, shouting fashion. It is only in the last two years that you The caliph's rage was quickly sated when in fact, still carrying armour and weapons Drama aside, he quickly got down to business that Jerusalem was opened to the Muslims by It is said that the pact between Umar and people' with the right to practice their this 'Covenant of Umar' is probably apocryphal. Now that the holy city of Christendom was commanders and then went back to Arabia. The Syrian army then split into thirds, with Palestine, Yazid besieging Caesarea, while conquest of Northern Syria. With the situation in the region seemingly Heraclius sailed from Antioch and withdrew Byzantine military strength and protecting Once the ship departed, it is said that Heraclius to Syria, my fair province. You are an enemy's now. Peace be with you, o' Syria, what a beautiful Despite this effective abandonment, some of to resist the Arab advance. From Jerusalem, a 17,000 strong force under Damascus, and then even further north to Emesa. From there, Khalid was dispatched with his - but was intercepted on a plain at nearby commander - Menas. He deployed his limited forces in three divisions at the forefront. Khalid charged with his Arab cavalry and soon After only a short amount of time, however, his troops, who loved their general, went Despite their numerical inferiority, the Roman in the head-on clash, pushing them back a To exploit the opportunity, Khalid detached led it around the Byzantine line, attacking It is said that not a single Roman survived Following this victory, in June 637, Khalid was stubbornly fortified in the town's citadel. Rather than launching an assault, the Muslim defenders surrender, which they did soon after. Abu Ubaidah rejoined Khalid at this point they defeated a minor Byzantine force commanded city. Much like at Chalkis, the Romans retreated outside Aleppo itself. Joachim sallied out a few times in an attempt 637 the city was in Arab hands. The greatest Roman city in Syria - Antioch, To precipitate an attack on it, Ubaidah sent Azaz in the north, so that no Roman units taking Antioch. This was done swiftly, and when the strike began. When the Muslim army was 12 miles from one they were met at an iron bridge over the Orontes from Antioch. Although the details of this 'Battle of clear that Khalid used his mobile guard to whose casualties were only exceeded by Ajnadayn In the wake of thousands of fleeing enemy Antioch, but taking the illustrious capital Only a few days into Abu Ubaidah's investment on terms and its defenders were permitted Having cleaved the Eastern Roman Empire into Khalid on a daring cavalry raid across the while the supreme commander himself thrust seaports such as Laodicea, Gibala, Antarados Heraclius to use the superior Roman navy to Although fighting in the area was far from campaign settled down to rule their respective At Hulwan, Yazdegerd III was still eager to of Ctesiphon. To do this, he ordered the main Persian army and turn to face the invaders near Jalula. Armies attempting to push north past the riverside gap between the Tigris' Diyala tributary broken ground to the east. If Mihran's 20-30,000 could hold this position, territory east of the Zagros Mountains would With the aim of converting Jalula into an thrust, Mihran immediately started digging A ditch was excavated three miles to the south blocking the gap. Behind this trench were a number of other Persian archers, while in front were placed Recruits were mustered, armed and trained from around the nearby countryside. Jalula was to be a crucial battle. The moment Sassanid defensive works began that this was happening. As the Muslim general was just as keen to enemies were to keep hold of it, and wanting Sa'd sent his nephew Hashim bin Utba with In order to prevent reinforcement or retreat, Persian governor Intaq's garrison at Mosul. After several attempts at taking that city defection of a Christian Arab contingent in In the main force heading for Jalula during of Muhammed, as well as the ever-ferocious Also in the Muslim ranks were several thousand who had joined them after Ctesiphon. When the Arabs and their Persian units approached the former Sassanid capital, Hashim constructed of Mihran's protective trench, unwilling So, the situation remained in this manner provisions and money was channeled into the Yazdegerd was continuously rallying additional Aware that his situation was only going to at storming the fortified ditch. Despite the disconcerting failure of Mihran's missile troops managed to overwhelm and repel Afterwards, the Sassanids replaced the wooden Demoralised due to their lack of success in offensive actions for a while, and that gave Utilising the constant steady stream of reinforcements launching sorties against Hashim's positions, he did. Although the Muslim army was easily able to arrived and pushed Mihran back into his fortifications the deadlock. With little other option, Hashim sent word Sa'd initially sent 600 infantry and 400 this total was barely enough to replace the and light siege. So, soon after, another 500 cavalry reinforcements Arabic tribal chiefs who had fought against The Persians, having been themselves reinforced to break their defences, now decided to go Mihran also realised that simply waiting wasn't to make the Muslim invaders leave was to inflict Deployment for an assault began with haste. Such Sassanid preparations for a major attack attracted Hashim's attention. This state of affairs was, however, also favourable tired of sitting helplessly outside Mihran's battle, Hashim withdrew his forces a short adversaries to cross their own entrenchments, The actual order of battle at Jalula is obscure chiefs - Amr bin Madi Karib of the Zubaid Asad, were given command of the cavalry and Now that the Persian rear was anchored by was forwards, and that is just what happened. At Mihran's command, the Battle of Jalula along the entire front, with archers and javelineers made contact. The charge struck with devastating impact, stalwartly for a time, refusing to give an This didn't last long however, as the ferocious vengeance for Qadissiyah and Ctesiphon, began the Muslim line. These successful thrusts endangered the integrity clear to Hashim that the danger of total collapse To resolve the problem, Sa'd's nephew to those units which were weakening, proclaiming battle they would have to fight. The present clash between Sassanid and Muslim sides' missile units ran out of javelins and charging into the slog themselves. Both armies had units battered into non-functionality the Persians were able to replace them, while Because of this numerical disadvantage, one at about noon, leaving a potentially fatal However, either because Mihran did not notice exhaustion, an attack on the position was men to fill the position. Witnessing the flight of this unit, Qaqa rode battle. Almost unbearable desert heat and the brutal offensive just after this, and both sides After a short rest, Mihran planned to keep plans. As his enemy had before, the Muslim general entire front, spoiling Mihran's assault lasting for over an hour without a decisive Just before sunset, however, the wind whipped weather phenomenon which affected the Persians As the wind was now at the Muslims' back, signalled Qaqa ibn Amr to embark on a maneuver While his general kept Mihran occupied in a regiment away from the left wing unnoticed Instead of attacking immediately, Qaqa left area to stop them being seen, then took a strong voice close to the main crossing point Following the call, multiple things happened First, the Muslim army, deceived by their reached the trench alone, attacked with renewed At the same time, worried that large numbers Sassanid units, who did not have a strategic but did not break. The coup de grace was administered by Qaqa hearing the shout, whirling into Mihran's At the impact, the Sassanid line was rolled Still, however, the Persian forces were stalwart, unwinnable situation. Muslim forces continued attacking the encircled losing troops as they did. However, the Sassanid soldiers were only human. At sunset, as the sky began to darken, everything be cut down as they fled. A great mass of them, driven into the ditch perished terribly. Up to half of the Sassanid army perished at town garrison, fled in the direction of Hulwan, Shortly after, Qaqa rode in pursuit of the Khaniqeen, before besieging and capturing Emperor Yazdegerd retreated beyond the Zagros. When Qaqa subsequently wrote to the caliph Umar would have absolutely none of it. Forbidding the operation, he replied "I were a wall which would prevent them from to them. The fertile Suwad is sufficient for us, and spoils of war." Expansion to the east was halted, but the in the Roman imperial crown - Egypt. Despite winning all of Syria and Iraq for caliphate's military situation remained Fierce Persian resistance continued in the Heraclius was hindering the Muslim advance To stall for time while he created an impenetrable enemy-occupied Syria, Heraclius sent envoys area , requesting that they attack the Muslim They obeyed the emperor's orders, crossing March 638, where Abu Ubaidah had concentrated However, Umar, in his typically hands-on fashion, Sa'd, in Persia, for three columns to invade When this group of Muslim warriors launched Arabs retreated. In the aftermath, forces under Sa'd turned At the same time, multiple mounted raiding lands. Khalid, the commander of one of these contingents, vast quantities of loot back to his base at However, Khalid wasn't a man accustomed his personal share of battle spoils to others. On one occasion after his raid on Heraclius' bin Qais - recited a beautiful piece for Khalid, Unknown to the poet's benefactor, this act of his peerless military career. Caliph Umar had been concerned about Khalid brilliance and constant victories were enticing So, when Umar received reports of his general's dismiss the Sword of Islam from his post and When the two formidable men came face to face, and no man has done as you have done. But it is not people who do; it is Allah who After this, Khalid left Arabia for Chalkis, years before finally passing away in 642. As the undefeated victor of hundreds of clashes unappreciated Arab general enters the limelight. That was the forty-eight-year-old Amr ibn at Ajnadayn, Yarmouk, and many others. When Abu Ubaidah appointed the conquered regions Upon moving into the area, he forced the surrender which had remained unconquered after the Fall In early 639, plague spread rapidly throughout The Arabs, unaccustomed to this kind of terrible died in the thousands, including generals It is worth noting that upon Yazid's death, as governor in his place. Amr, who survived, was given command of the to propose an idea to the caliph : Having in his life, Amr was well aware of just how it would be easy to conquer. The new commander put forward his plan to to the caliph: "It is the richest of lands, Although Umar, who wished to consolidate Muslim plague, was initially reluctant, believing and persistence eventually led the caliph Restricted to just 4,000 troops, mainly cavalry, in total secrecy, under the condition that back reached him before he crossed into Egypt. However, if Amr's army was already inside could keep going. Convinced almost immediately that this expedition to Amr carrying a sealed letter, ordering When it reached the general at Rafah, just the letter would doom his expedition before So, Amr left the message unopened and moved and since the army was already in Egypt when that it could keep going. The timeless province of power and riches of military laxity and alienated from the long-standing cultural and religious differences. The primary factor was that the Copts - Egypt's form of Christianity to the empire at large any perceived heretic in a manner that made The Roman authorities in Alexandria were alerted troops and sending some of them to reinforce Setting forth from Arish in late December soon reached Pelusium, besieging it by land. However, Roman naval superiority meant that supplied, and this led to a two-month-long when the Muslims repulsed a sortie and stormed After taking Pelusium, to the alarm and astonishment unopposed along the Nile Delta's eastern The defenders resisted under blockade for forces around. Aware that the marauding 4,000 Arabs were and Patriarch of Alexandria, Cyrus, marched fortress called Babylon. Commanded by Augustalis Theodorus and garrisoned Nile's strongest defensive bastions, standing up to six feet thick. By the time Amr starved the Bilbeis defenders were prepared for his inevitable assault. Bypassing Heliopolis on their left, the Muslims Due to its sheer size, only some of Theodorus' were encamped outside of the northern wall ditch. Fortifying this secondary protection even around the perimeter to act as sally points. Shortly after arriving and witnessing the launched his 4,000 against the Roman units After a hard-fought skirmish, the Muslims finally making camp. Observing that his plan to keep Theodorus daily raids against the Roman positions all Furthermore, in an attempt to conceal just split and spread it over a large area. This state of affairs lasted for two months positions and the Romans remaining hunkered they would be able to win without fighting. By July, no opportunity to gain a decisive were slowly tiring. So, having put the eventuality to the back taking Egypt would be simple, wrote to the Rather than chiding his overly optimistic reinforcements to conclude the campaign, who With these new forces, the Muslim attacks force, killing large numbers of Roman soldiers Even more hesitantly than the first time, This time, a further 4,000 troops were dispatched who, despite being offered Amr's command he wished to help the Muslims engaged in Egypt. These new troops arrived in late September. After conducting a personal reconnaissance out to Amr which the general seems to have the Muslim army was the Roman-garrisoned city If coordinated correctly, these troops could launched any attack from Babylon. To remove this potential threat, Amr led a to Heliopolis, leaving just enough at the Upon approaching the walls, however, some from the city and beat some of Amr's horsemen Nevertheless, they were forced to pull back Only a short time after investing Heliopolis, scaled the walls in a dashing maneuver and Seeing this, and realising that the result garrison sued for peace and paid the Jizya, In their absence, the Romans had driven away and re-established their positions beyond Theodorus, likely realising that he wasn't the invaders out, began employing the Muslims' raids through the Roman bridgeheads. Although the Romans generally lost more men afford to, while Amr could not. The stalemate went on relatively unchanged Huzafa - approached Amr with a risky but potentially That night, Kharija was given a cavalry regiment by riding around to the southern spur of a field. After quietly taking up a concealed position Muslim cavalry waited. As Huzafa suspected, when morning came the deployed for battle - the Muslims arrayed When both sides were ready, Theodorus launched who ordered his army to retreat from Babylon It was, in reality, a feigned retreat. When the melee had moved far beyond Babylon's galloped out from their hiding place behind which Theodorus would have to use for any Amr, seeing that his horsemen were in place, the Romans back towards their own fortifications. Hearing the given signal, Kharija also launched rear, hemming the Romans in and then encircling Many defenders were killed, but a few Roman cavalry, managing to resecure the crossing The remnants of the Roman army at Babylon by Amr's forces, who continued their attack Fighting continued in the space between the was closed from inside. Those who got in were the lucky ones, as not field of battle . The morale of Cyrus, who the Roman soldiery as a whole, was completely it was clear that peace had to be concluded. To make matters even more dire, Amr somehow them to launch deadly boulders, softening When this began happening, Cyrus departed on the midriver island of Rauda, from which Then the Coptic prefect dejectedly sent word them. Envoys were exchanged back and forth between to offer Amr a lavish bribe if the Muslims by giving 3 options - conversion to Islam, Cyrus favoured capitulating in some form, any of it, so the stalemate continued outside Since coming to terms with Cyrus was impossible, in order to speak with Theodorus. However, when he was entering the fortress, "You have entered, now see how you get out." Correctly believing orders had been given Amr tricked his way out of the fortress, convincing more of his generals unwittingly into the These attempts at ending the siege failed But finally, in mid-December, the observant had taken place on Babylon's northern side, towers were relatively undefended. Just like that, the Muslims had found a key Swiftly putting his infiltration plan into a unit to conduct the operation. On the moonless, clear night of December 20th outside the Gate of Iron while Zubayr and Then, when some of his men were gathered on and echoed by the entire army, causing shock what was happening. Amidst the chaos, Zubayr slew the gatehouse gate closed, allowing Amr and the Muslim army While some of the more elite Roman formations routed towards the Nile. Once they reached the riverbank, the soldiers boats, which ferried soldiers back and forth Among those who fled was Theodorus, who managed The next day, Cyrus sued for and obtained to pay the Jizya and submit the entire country The Romans in Egypt could either accept and Unsurprisingly, when Heraclius received a of approval for his peace with Amr, the emperor with a message full of scorn and insults. To ensure that an active defence of Egypt Heraclius had other messages ordering firm in Egypt, who obeyed their sovereign without Cyrus, disavowed by the Romans, put himself the Muslims administrative and engineering Memphis was now secure, and the push towards After the fall of Babylon to Rashidun forces stationed in the area for a while, dispatching permission to continue the conquest towards This pause also gave his army a much-needed In Constantinople, the elderly and sickly victory by ferrying several thousand more Mediterranean. They had clear orders - protect Alexandria Upon making landfall at the provincial capital, garrison, possibly under Theodorus' command, and fanning out to defensible positions en Reports of these preparations made it south At about the same time, a messenger arrived and seize Alexandria. So, leaving a small garrison to hold down Amr gave orders for his men to break camp. The 12,000 strong Muslim army headed northwards Marching along the Nile Delta's western desert climate, the Muslims overcame light before turning northwest, away from the river. After subsequently capturing Sulteis, Amr 12 miles away from Alexandria, and chased eastern approach. The march to the sea had taken just 22 days. Alexandria had been built by Alexander the narrow strip of land, bounded to the north by Lake Maryut. Since the main transportation routes ended approach was the northeastern one. The Muslims made camp outside weapon range towards the recently reinforced Alexandrian Unfortunately for Amr, such a careless preliminary to disrupt and scatter his units with volley This bombardment sent Amr and his warriors Such attacks continued with intermissions, would instead launch sorties out of the city it back and end the siege. Despite the ferocity and competence of the consistently and ended up being pushed back At some point during the first months of indecisive a section of the front manned by the Arabian It seems to have concluded as an indecisive was subsequently cut off and taken away by The next morning, the same thing happened. A Roman officer, probably made confident by on the Mahra, but this time the outcome was After being killed in the fighting, his head a bargaining chip to get their comrade's After a brief negotiation, both sides made honours. At the height of summer, around two months the Sahmi tribal commander decided to shift of. However, as his forces were moving, the Roman a daring cavalry attack, which nevertheless A reckless Muslim cavalry detachment set out got inside the city just before the defenders Heavily outnumbered, they fought a fierce in which some of them were killed and the Heraclius, who maintained constant contact Muslims were gaining momentum. Worried that all of Egypt was about to be what remained of the empire, together with Just before this giant, emperor-led relief in Constantinople at the age of 66, leaving as joint-heirs. This initiated a round of imperial politicking the worst possible moment. As senior emperor, Constantine attempted to in Egypt. His untimely death only a short time later If that wasn't bad enough, some Byzantine arms in support of Constantine's son Constans had poisoned Constantine. This dynastic struggle would not conclude would be sent to Alexandria. Politicking also infected the soldiers defending massive morale loss. When the siege had dragged into its sixth a letter from the caliph chastising him for So, after conferring with his generals, Amr to lead an assault. In late October 641, the entire Muslim army for battle. Then, led by Ubada, Amr's forces finally the Church of Gold. Of Muslim achievements to this point - 20 ranked alongside events such as Yarmouk and The caliphate acquired an invaluable naval conquered a land of immense riches and culture. Perhaps most importantly for the future, possession even further south and west into Africa. The wealth, beauty, and luxury of Alexandria measure, but Amr could not make his headquarters So, he sent an emissary back to Medina asking Unfortunately for the conqueror of Egypt, was the absolute contempt and distrust in as the Nile. The single occasion on which Umar allowed known as Muawiyah, to embark on a naval operation, So, Umar refused Amr's request, explaining: abode where water intervenes between them Disappointed, Amr moved south and laid the of Islamic Egypt - Misr al-Fustat - the City The country's new governor was occupied of the Caliphate's newest territory. As 641 gave way to 642, Amr settled grievances previously abandoned pieces of infrastructure, aid to famine-ridden Medina at Umar's request against Muslim rule, Amr sent out three columns and Fayyum, while a fourth ensured that the All of them had an easy time, accomplishing With Egypt firmly in his grip, the adventurous Nubian kingdom called Makuria to the south. Makuria, ruled by a king called Qalidurut and expansionist power in Subsaharan Africa. In fact, its monarch had only recently annexed A literate society with a vibrant culture hardy, ferocious warriors. In particular, their formidable reputation the Mediterranean world. At some point during the scorching African Nafe and 20,000 horsemen into Nubia, where of the local inhabitants. Unable to resist the Muslims in a pitched - mounted and on foot, launched constant hit strength before darting back unharmed into As the Islamic army pushed deeper into Nubia increasing numbers and ferocity, the hawk-eyed to the Arab invaders: "Where would you like When one of the Muslim warriors skeptically state that an arrow would indeed strike there, When Uqba and his diminished forces finally found a smaller enemy army of around 10,000 central city by Uqba's movements. Eager to destroy the Nubians' fighting potential cousin began arraying his troops for battle. As the Muslim advance towards Qalidurut's hit by an utterly merciless barrage of Makurian pinpoint accuracy. Uqba's assault was stalled in its tracks began and his soldiers, 250 of whom had lost Unable to close with the Nubian archers and withdrew his warriors from the field. Forever after, Muslims would call the Nubians penchant for loosing arrows with deadly accuracy Unwilling to continue such a difficult campaign from plunder or future land, the Muslims continued Although not exactly a decisive defeat, an one of the first times in history. After a month or two of recuperation, Amr personally led them west into the desert during After a month of hard marching, the Muslims as Barca which, having no arrangements for This was the first act of the decades' long called the Maghreb. Amr had Uqba ride inland from the coast, where desert between Barca and Zawila without violence. The poor population quickly proved law-abiding Amr decreed that part of the revenues coming spent to alleviate poverty there. Then in spring 643, the Muslim army advanced of Tripoli. Amr set up his camp on an elevated section that such a coastal settlement could be navally Lacking siege weapons, he also lacked the After two months of relative inactivity, eight city for a hunting trip. When these hunters began making their way led them to ride back along the coast. All of a sudden, they came upon Tripoli's the sea, and discovered that the section was In a display of bravery or foolishness, these vulnerable flank to infiltrate their way inside Before the defenders even realised what was centre and began slaying enemies. Such unexpected violence triggered a bout the civilians and Tripoli's defending forces. In fact, a large number of the armed soldiers contingent had somehow gotten inside and, of anchored ships in the harbour. Amr caught wind of the pandemonium taking exploiting the weakness. Arraying his warriors with haste, the Arab scale Tripoli's enfeebled walls. In yet another action of which we have left and joined their eight-strong vanguard. Unwilling to fight any further, the Roman departed aboard their ships, leaving Tripoli While most of the army stayed in the city swift detachment of cavalry about 40 miles known as Sabrata were still carefree. They had heard rumours of fighting for neighboring war reached them, if ever. The next morning, Sabrata's Roman guards began leading animals out to graze for the Unfortunately for them, it was at this moment by surprise, getting through the gates, killing the town. With that done, they returned to Tripoli. Having succeeded, Amr longed for more, and containing both the good news of victory and This was rejected, as the caliph was worried And this time, there was no loophole or clever decree and continue his relentless campaigning. Therefore, after allowing his army to recuperate to Fustat and remained there, quietly administering of future rebellion. Although Umar had spared the rest of Byzantine last long. However, as the combat in North Africa was front was becoming heated again. Sa'd army was eager to pursue Yazdegerd halted any further eastward expansion for At the Caliph's command, Sa'd began combing a permanent military garrison. Eventually, after receiving guidance from of land in Suristan 'where the land is both and constructed a colony that would eventually Far to the southeast, another Arab raiding searching for a base of their own and came it was there that Utba began work on a settlement It seemed as though the frontier between the at the Zagros mountains, allowing Sa'd and questions. However, the post-Jalula status quo wouldn't Unwilling to accept the permanent loss of imperial pride, the Sassanids continued backing by Hormuzan, head of one of Persia's premier During the retreat from Qadissiyah, Hormuzan personal levy of survivors and marched back This territory formed a vulnerable bulge, territory west of the Zagros Mountains. With little chance of resisting a concerted to go on the attack. From a forward base at the greatest city of began launching quick raids into the area As these attacks increased in frequency, Hormuzan west near Manazir. Utba was unable to deal with the Persian attacks for aid. In response, the commander-in-chief ordered to bolster Utba's strength. The combined Muslim force launched a lightning its forward bases and pushed the frontier Suitably chastened by the reverses his soldiers an unstable peace with his two Muslim counterparts, The remainder of 638 passed without further single act elsewhere - the so-called Fiasco One of Sa'd rivals and governor of the uneventful to increase his own status and launched a Gulf. Landing on the coast of Fars, the Arab force a small militia in a costly battle before The naval warfare despising caliph found out nevertheless sent Utba to rescue the beleaguered the position. Hormuzan used the respite granted by his truce in that time, also received imperial reinforcements Now reinforced, he took advantage of the treaty's hostilities in early 639. The new governor of Basra - Abu Musa - was any further Persian territory, so he wrote for guidance. Umar responded with an order to take Ahwaz This prompted Musa to march his forces to Lord across its breadth. Feeling confident about his chances, Hormuzan the aim of facing and crushing it in a pitched Musa gladly accepted, crossing by a bridge provincial force in a grueling fight and forcing A typically aggressive pursuit force of Arab to retreat even further east. From a strong position behind yet another Muslims, offering to recognise their conquest own district. Still, the Sassanid reinforcements were pouring that the preparations for another military At this point, Sa'd was replaced as governor to Musa to subdue the Persian threat without From Ahwaz, Musa launched his thrust against them in a brisk engagement and subsequently Hormuzan retreated north to the Sassanid concentration city in the Zagros foothills. Unsure about his ability to take on such a had a thousand fresh warriors sent to him With these additional warriors, Musa advanced with it, followed relatively quickly by the Returning to Basra after this victory, Musa in Khuzestan; this was Junde Shapur, who succeeded With the seizure of this final city, all of Zagros was now under Muslim rule. Despite the loss of Iraq, Sassanid Persia and powerful empire with loyal territories After the fall of Khuzestan to Musa's army, of his remaining provinces to raise troops transportation artery west. Throughout the later part of 641, contingents Isfahan, Rayy, Hamadan, and many others arrived army of around 60,000 had come together. At the same time, this fearsome force was in his favour. If he lost now, he would lose everything. A Sassanid general named Mardanshah was appointed that Umar "Is coming for you if you do not He has already destroyed the seat of your A Persian frontier commander in service to buildup and, alarmed, sent word to Ammar bin information to Umar. Addressing the people of Medina on the issue, is the day on which the future depends" upcoming clash. The ever-active caliph declared his intention it by his advisors, who pointed out that this A more contentious issue was the assignment Uthman wanted the whole army of the caliphate - Ali Ibn Abi Talib - disagreed, reminding would just invite the Byzantines, Ethiopians, Instead, he suggested the troops at Kufa, core of a field army, supplemented by a fresh Umar concurred with Ali and gave command of and conqueror of Susa - Nu'man bin Muqarrin. Upon enthusiastically receiving the caliph's east from Kufa, and crossed the Tigris, rendezvousing the way. Trekking northeast from Ctesiphon along the Shereen and dove into the Zagros Mountains, at Tazar in December 641. With 30,000 Muslim warriors assembled, Nu'man Valley to establish where exactly the Persians By nightfall it returned having observed little uneven terrain between Tazar and the Persian Nu'man immediately seized the opportunity a small town known as Isbeezahan, just ten Persian occupants. When, not long after, Mardanshah learned that bringing the entirety of his own army out In preparation for the final battle, he deployed force in an L-shaped hook formation, 'wrapped' brown ridge. While his soldiers advantageously faced down atop the heights, where the imperial commander This adroitly selected defensive position strength: in front of the Sassanid front line Mardanshah placed a minefield of cavalry-crippling Furthermore, his right2 - the short edge of a fortified village and the 3,000-foot-high left flank3 was protected by a fork in the Confronted by this natural fortress and with along Mardanshah's entire front, just across The Muslim general's brother Nueim led the commanded the right, and Qaqa bin Amr headed Nu'man himself was in the centre. The Caliphate's deployment gave Mardanshah assault at the unprepared Muslim lines. However, either due to overconfidence in his them due to the previous defeat at Jalula, he was, allowing Nu'man to finish bringing This inaction likely did not seem like a blunder in Iraq and could either smash their heads or wait, chew through their supplies and retreat An hour after the Islamic noon prayer, as the entire Muslim army began its attack straight Upon reaching the Wadi stream, the attackers' deadly rain of Persian arrows, loosed by archers Worse still, Qaqa's horsemen galloped headlong and immobilisation of many horses. Nevertheless, Nu'man's men pushed on across arrow fire. Then, charging uphill, the Muslims crashed met in ferocious melee combat. A grinding clash of attrition began with little numerical weight, personal prowess, strength, On some sections of the line, perhaps those more gradual, the Muslims managed to temporarily time were counterattacked and shoved to their In other areas - near Zarrameen where the to haul the Caliphate's forces back across and fought back to where they were. The battle's outcome rested on a knife-edge, the field - either laying still or shouting This mass slaying continued until nightfall the Persian line that night, pulled away and The night hours passed without contact, with and tending to the wounded. When dawn broke on the second day, however, launched another frontal assault across the After what historian Akram poetically described again retreated, unsuccessful and badly bloodied. Both armies formed up again at dawn on the sanity, and possible mutiny kept the Muslim for a third time. Instead, he waited for the Persians to emerge of their own, but Mardanshah was a wily commander to budge. After a tense two-day standoff, the Sassanid line with small contingents. These limited attacks would inflict damage back behind their defences, leaving the Islamic While constant assailment and the cold conditions strength, Mardanshah began absorbing a steady nearby Hamadan. The situation could not continue as it stood, a few days after his previous attack. The eldest companion present4 advised that to merely destroy those raiding parties which As all the officers were eager to get stuck Another more gung-ho leader suggested that of consequences. This too was quickly shot down. Then spoke Tuleiha bin Khuleiwad - a former Jalula - who put forward a clever stratagem. The Muslims, he said, should "Put the cavalry weak front, making as if to withdraw. Let the Persians hope for victory and advance Then we turn and fight them." This plan was approved by most of those present, With the purpose of making the illusion of the Muslims also began circulating false rumours Over the next few days, word of Umar's 'death' army like a kind of virulent mental plague, now surely demoralised enemy. The Friday after Nu'man's last attack, of Muslim positions across the stream: tents being loaded, and small contingents of men Everything Mardanshah could see appeared to and about to retreat. So, the general opened a series of gaps in to a pre-prepared plan and began having his Lead elements halted just beyond the caltrop forming up there. According to our sources, Mardanshah might could not run. The 'retreating' Muslim infantry span be struck from behind and hastily deployed Of course, this was all a part of Tuleiha's bait hook, line, and sinker. Unbeknownst to the Sassanid army, Qaqa and the Ardashan ridge, ready to attack. Two hours before noon, Mardanshah ordered enemy line. When the Persians entered missile range, they softening the Muslims up at a greater range Forced to defend themselves with only their were chomping at the bit to close with the with a wider view of the strategic situation, After a while weakening the Muslims with missile This was the key moment of the battle, as right flank from the Ardashan ridge and its Remaining on the defensive, Nu'man restrained withdrawing slowly in a similar manner to Then, after some time of suffering this, Nu'man and, at the same time, Qaqa's cavalry swept between the Persians and their obstacles. However, Mardanshah detached a unit of reserves the encirclement was completed. On the front line, Persian forces were gradually counterattack. But then, the Muslim general was struck by away from the fight, with Nueim impersonating Although Sassanid resistance was absolutely half encircling their foe, were clearly in Suddenly, as the sky began to darken, the and routed, able to do so because the forces Amidst this chaos, Tuleiha was also slain. A relatively large number of Persian troops including Mardanshah, were killed by their caltrop belt, or were taken prisoner. Hudayfah took command of the Caliphate's the following morning, defeating the Sassanid Part of the defeated army retreated into Nahavand new imperial commander, Dinar, surrendered Nahavand was the final great battle between there was no longer any doubt - the Sassanid For this, Nahavand is known to Muslims as It would take another decade to subdue all Asia and Eastern Iran, but by late 644 as was effectively "a king without a kingdom." On the Egyptian front, after Amr returned Pentapolis in late 643, he travelled back whom he already had a somewhat tense relationship. Mistrusted by the caliph, Amr received a frosty The tension between the two men wasn't helped eye on his governors via an internal spy network, wealth. So, when the latter returned to his province, - Muhammad bin Maslama - to appraise Amr's The latter produced an account of his assets The excess was confiscated and taken back That wasn't the end of the caliph's incessant A short while thereafter, unsatisfied at the from Egypt, Umar had a heated debate with After that ended in a deadlock, a Copt was province's financial situation. He bluntly informed Umar that previous rulers before taking anything from it, while Muslim In response, Umar carved Egypt into two separate giving Amr Lower Egypt to govern from Fustat, by Abdullah ibn Sa'd ibn Abi Sarh, the foster Predictably, Amr was, once again, infuriated Back in Medina a deadly plot had formed, centring and used his vast experience in Sassanid administration advisors. Despite this, the Persian noble never forgot It seems that Hormuzan made contact with Firuz, Qadisiyyah or Nahavand and brought to the 644 Firuz knifed Umar. Before passing away three days after, the of six men1 - to appoint his successor from After deep debate, they decided that Uthman It is worth noting that while Sunni Islam caliphs, Shia Muslims believe this election to be the next in line. Shortly after, Amr Ibn al-As visited Uthman removal. The new caliph refused outright, prompting Egypt until Abdullah ibn Sa'd was removed. In response to this threat, Uthman appointed further deepening the dispute between the The Romans in Egypt were not happy with Amr's the incomes from the province were even less Alexandria in particular bore the brunt of riotous population to undertake drastic measures. A group of prominent Romans dispatched messages These letters outlined the outrages of Muslim that Abdullah had let the Nile realm's defence only garrisoned by a paltry thousand men, Perceiving an opportunity to regain control had dealt to his empire and his pride, Constans of 300 ships and many thousands of soldiers, as Manuel. Constans' fleet was ready after almost a Because the reduced Byzantine Empire was still - the Caliphate having not yet developed any this fleet from unexpectedly sailing straight As the Roman sympathisers predicted, the thousand against this shock assault from the sea. When Roman forces landed almost unopposed, up against the occupying Arabs. Most of the city's garrison was slain in However, while the invasion army began ravaging Muslims that escaped travelled to Fustat and Abdullah ibn Sa'd didn't even have a chance Lacking confidence in their new viceroy's a delegation to Caliph Uthman, urging him to the crisis. Understanding that Amr was both a man of formidable Uthman bit his tongue and asked Amr to take Wasting no time, the man who had conquered as quickly as possible with the aim of emulating Upon his arrival, the morale of Islam's prepared for war eagerly, while Amr started Informed by spies and agents that the Romans Fustat, many of Amr's brash officers pressed the enemy to the treacherous Mediterranean the Muslim regime. Amr did not agree with this appraisal, as Roman supply and communication lines to the Manuel and his army marched under the close reported the Romans' position and strength. The land forces made their way up the eastern of supporting warships sailing parallel to Byzantine indiscipline began causing problems Roman soldiers moved from town to town and When Manuel neared the halfway point between with 15,000 warriors of his own, moving on Both armies finally came into contact with or Naqyus. After resting for the night in their respective the cultivated, featureless, and flat terrain Amr's left - a cavalry regiment under the Nile River, as did the Roman right. In addition to their organisation in neat also embarked on the riverine ships. Once his preparations for battle were complete, into effective bow range before coming to of arrows against the Muslim position. On the river, Manuel had prepared a clever His ships continued sailing until they passed archers struck the Muslims in the flank as Amr's men had already been struggling to terribly from the multidirectional bombardment. Sumayy's regiment in particular was almost closest to the river, but even Amr had a horse Despite this punishment, however, the Muslims and so endured the storm with considerable Once Manuel believed that his enemy was sufficiently and had their on-board troops fall into ranks arrow attack against the Muslim line. The moment after the Byzantine eunuch general he directed his infantry to advance into spear Although early Muslim armies were generally kind of close quarters engagement, the Roman host with considerable ferocity, cracking Sumayy's regiment, which had endured the actually did break and run. Amr hastily pulled the remainder of his men only a short distance away, in order to regroup However Manuel, believing that the Muslims his enemy off, instead simply waiting where After a brief, eerie pause in the fighting, in gold-studded armour, rode out into the the Muslims to single combat. This would give the latter time to take a So, one of Amr's favoured mubarizun - an offer and strode out to meet the enemy fighter. With the remainder of both armies bearing clashed with spears, and neither combatant Dropping their polearms after a certain amount with sword and shield, but again neither warrior This continued until the larger Roman duelist with a series of fierce thrusts. As the hulking Roman was about to finish Haumal dagger and plunged it into his unsuspecting Although Haumal managed to win the duel by a few days later, much to Amr's sorrow. This traditional single combat had given the order, and by the time Haumal had won, Amr returned to the battlefield and formed up. When the whole Muslim army was ready, they Manuel's forces, combat which they were After a few hours of Roman resistance, the and hunted all the way to Alexandria. Amr brought up a number of catapults and launched artillerists fired back. The defences nevertheless held firm under - Ibn Bassana - offered to let Amr's troops retained, terms which the Muslim commander Therefore, at some point in the middle of the Islamic army poured inside. Any Roman unit opposing the incursion was up to reinforce the breach were pushed away. As the rebellious city began falling victim withdrew to their ships and sailed away. Before the vengeful Arabs could truly wreak and its vanquished inhabitants, an unknown stop the violence. Although the conqueror of Egypt was by no words had such an impact that Amr immediately At the very spot where this was proclaimed, of Mercy'. Still, large numbers of Romans including Manuel In the aftermath of the Second Siege of Alexandria, in his words "Like the house of an adultress, The neglect of Egypt's defence was also garrison into four parts - two in Fustat, coast to be moved around where necessary. It would also be rotated and the troops replaced Not only had Amr ibn Al-As both conquered he had built the foundations of a rule that country. For this, Amr well expected to be rewarded Uthman wanted his tax fiend of a brother to Amr probably deserved some reward for his So, summoning the conqueror to his place of to remain in military command of Egypt while Amr responded with the witty barb: "In that of the cow while another milks it." For the remainder of Uthman's caliphate, him publicly. This mutual resentment was to have serious future. By the end of 646AD, the entire near-east geopolitical entity than it was just two decades On its eastern wing, a four-century-old dynasty last true Shah1 pursued across Iran by eastward devoured. In the north, Rashidun forces reached the insurmountable Byzantine Empire within its Now that all major battles against Rome and seeking another direction in which to conquer. Once Constans II's counterattack against foster brother Abdullah ibn Sa'd began launching his new province. These small expeditions quickly proved a stunning slaves, cattle, and other riches. Judging that Roman Africa would yield an easy governor wrote to Uthman, asking for permission Uthman agreed with Abdullah's assessment force in Arabia composed of warriors from It was a relatively young army, and in its Umar and two sons of Umayyad chief Al-Hakam The freshly mustered Arab force was ready joining Abdullah ibn Sa'd at Fustat a few There, the 10,000 newly arrived Arabic fighters governor's Egyptian army, resulting in a With this mostly camel and horse-mounted invasion This part of the Mediterranean seaboard bore dramatic events during the course of several Emperor Heraclius' father had previously of Africa' before his son's ascension the elder governor died. Close to the emperor's death in 641, Heraclius as Gregory, However, dynastic chaos following inability to repel Muslim attacks, particularly In 647, as Uthman's army was in the process independence from Constantinople amid a surge and native Berbers alike. Abdullah ibn Sa'd meanwhile, crossed the west bank until he neared Alexandria, at which desert as a shortcut. After a few more days, the viceroy's 20,000 along its course until, finally, after a six-week which his predecessor Amr seized years before. The Muslims then marched a further seven hundred the Bay of Sirte, enduring the scorching privations The Arabs were used to such arid conditions them conquer the Near-East. When the Rashidun army finally reached Tripoli, its warriors found the heavily fortified city reception they'd received in Cyrenaica. As Amr did half a decade earlier, Abdullah placed it under siege. In order to slow or prevent any resupply or artillery at both points where the city wall any enemy vessel which attempted to enter unusable. Gregory, who was readying the main Exarchate a naval reinforcement armada dispatched from However, rather than disembarking at the port ships were forced to disgorge their human outside of Abdullah's artillery range and Although this prevented Rashidun catapults their ranks, it made the tired and disorganised charged at them from two different angles. Exhausted from the long sea voyage and without reinforcements were scythed down to a man Remaining vigilant against any further attempts were unable to breach the well-provisioned, As his army languished outside the walls, of Sufetula to observe any military activity A few weeks later two things were clear to First: Tripoli was still a long way aways static outside its walls seemed pointless. Second: reports from his scouts made it apparent Exarch was readying for a fight. Possibly convinced Tripoli was just a delaying own army's strength and will to push on, away to the west. The Rashidun army and its thrifty commander region of Roman Africa, unmoored from any the Tripoli garrison behind them. At Sufetula, Gregory was made aware of the through Gabes and reacted to the news immediately, away from his interim inland capital. To do this, the Exarch ponderously shifted army, which probably matched that of the Muslims kilometres from Sufetula - and set up a camp Part of the Exarchate's army was placed force. However, only a short time after Gregory's advance guard fell on its Roman counterpart, flight. Unnerved by such strength of the Muslim mounted all the way to Sufetula, believing his position About four miles east of his capital the Exarch Such close proximity to its base granted the wide flanking maneuvers from the mobile opposing if they needed it. The Muslims arrived soon after and made their line. One rejected emissary later, both sides deployed from Sufetula. The Roman army's posture was defensive, two high ridges. Abdullah, realising the observation potential forces to occupy them. Unlike his more iron-willed predecessor, Abdullah by the warriors under his command, an accountant Lacking Amr's bravery, Abdullah retreated was not likely to suffer any personal threat Fortunately, Gregory was a kindred spirit either, choosing to oversee the clash from Subordinates and lower-level officers fought At the dawn the next day, fighting commenced. Details about the first days of Sufetula are is evident that the combat was incredibly Although the actual battlefield was a flat any outflanking maneuvers or fancy tactical Moreover, the uninvolved nature of both army's situation. After a few days of such indecisive fighting, of the enemy leader in order to sever the wasn't going to do the deed himself. Instead, he offered to wed his legendarily to the Roman warrior who killed Abdullah. Morale in the Exarch's army skyrocketed they were Roman, Vandalic, Greek or Berber, the princess' hand. Word of this also spread throughout the Muslim Not at all comfortable with being a marked decline. To counter Gregory's offer, the Muslim commander the Exarch's daughter to any warrior who to his tent. Still however, the next few days continued brought to a crescendo by the offer and counteroffer This continued without end until one of Abdullah's defector from Gregory's army. He told the Muslim captain that because fighting walls, the Exarch's position, near Sufetula's Alerted to this crucial information and the exploit the opportunity, Zubayr put forward and was granted leadership over the army's The invaders' spirits were buoyed due to young officer, who spent the remainder of Swarmed by warriors who desired to embark Zubayr eventually selected thirty of the fiercest, could offer as an attack squad. When asked what they were to do, Zubayr replied who assail me from the rear and I shall defend During the near soundless hours of night, positioned himself, his 30 stalwarts, and northern ridge. Then when morning came, both armies closed had changed. At noon, with an especially hot day weighing and withdrew - the Romans quickly, the Muslims Distracted by the din of war, Gregory, his and his band of daredevils galloped into the of treachery'. Realising what was happening, the Exarch's warriors broke it and allowed Zubayr a clean In the confusion, Gregory initially believed so did not react. Gregory was killed and his head sliced from Word of their leader's death quickly reached confusion and disheartening the soldiers. Then, at the perfect moment, Zubayr's large at a gallop and charged into the disorganised lance before wheeling around the battlefield. Simultaneously, the bulk of the Muslim infantry enemy into an unwinnable fight. Pressured from the front by Arab infantry all around, the Roman army collapsed and its attempts to flee. Zubayr's cavalry reaped an especially bloody corpses of Romans, Berber, Vandals, and Greeks Despite the slaughter, several thousand of towards the capital, believing its walls would It wasn't their lucky day. Zubayr, having handily dealt with the Exarch, gates, preventing entry or exit. When the retreating columns of exhausted Roman were viciously attacked by Muslim cavalry The Rashidun triumph at Sufetula is frequently was forever lost to the Empire, and while this is far from true. Once the vast quantity of captured silver, Abdullah ibn Sa'd moved on the Exarchate's Upon putting the millennia old city to siege, the city came to an impasse. There was no chance that the besiegers would supply lines and barely functional siege train, the inhabitants of Carthage to make them go However, with exaggerated reports of Gregory's terms after only a few days. Always with income on his brain, Abdullah gold as payment to leave Africa alone keeping After a subsequent eastward journey of about in Fustat by late 647, bringing with it a the treasury in Medina. Regardless of the gathered loot, Abdullah up the ghost before the conquest was concluded. At about this time - late 648 - the governor of unknown scale on Cyprus in order to neutralise point for future Byzantine attacks. Muawiya landed on the Mediterranean island a tribute of 7,000 dinars annually. With the North African front winding down, Caliphate came to a halt. Three years passed in relative quiet until conquer Nubia in 652, failing once again due . Because the situation on land between Eastern Taurus Mountains, both sides began looking If Constantinople maintained its naval supremacy, in Syria, Egypt, or Africa at will. However, if the Caliphate usurped this control, lake and even threaten the great imperial To that end, both the Egyptian governor and vast fleets of ships with which to dominate In 654AD, the Arab and Roman fleets met off Battle of the Masts. Abdullah ibn Sa'd revealed himself to be reputation on land, crushing Constans II's and clearing the way for an attack on Constantinople. From the status of a subjugated, scorned, burst forth from their ancient homeland in blowing away everything in their path in the The third season of the Early Muslim Expansion the famous battles like Talas, Tours, Guadelete, you are subscribed and have pressed the bell Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and