From hand rolling 100,000 bagels to feeding 100,000 people at the we traveled the globe to uncover the amazing stories behind the world's biggest batches of food. Our first stop is Utopia Bagels in Whitestone, New York. Narrator: This 200-pound mountain of dough will soon be hand-rolled just a small fraction made at this shop every week. Workers start the baking process at 3 a.m. and continue way past lunch hours. But according to owner Scott Spellman, the guarantee of a fresh, hot bagel is why Utopia Bagels stands out from the thousands of other Scott: I say it time and time again. You may have tried a bagel, you will not eat another bagel. Narrator: We visited Utopia's to see how it prepares its It all starts with a that uses barley malt. Scott: It's a really old-school Most stores that make bagels But to make a good-quality Narrator: Next, they add salt and a large scoop of Scott: So, what that does, and it crisps the crust outside. Narrator: Then they with New York City tap water. But it has to be at just Scott: We tend to use water that's around 60 degrees, 62, 63. But temperatures of the water may change when it's hotter and Narrator: Then it's time to add in 200 pounds of all-purpose flour, a small portion compared Scott: You're looking at Almost a two-day amount for us that we'll go through all this flour. And this is actually just Narrator: The final ingredient is yeast. But for flavored bagels, the recipe may change slightly or freeze-dried blueberries, There is no set time for when According to Scott, it takes a keen eye and years of experience. Scott: It's a thing called How long have you been making bagels? 18 years. Scott: 18 years. Daniel's It takes understanding the It takes understanding his how long it should mix. All these things are about what happens with our bagel. Narrator: Once the dough it's cut into sections and transferred over to the rolling table, where it's then formed Scott: We can make up to And this'll make Narrator: They cover the entire to help soften the dough before rolling. Scott: And it's only about that allows that dough to connect a little better with each other. They're saying, &quot;Hello, how are you?&quot; All those ingredients are Narrator: At any given point, there are four expert rollers on hand. These skilled men have between perfecting their craft -- something Scott says is a &quot;dying breed.&quot; Scott: There's not a out there right now. And these people are Listen, I think Derek Jeter said it best. If you put 10,000 hours into something, you're a professional. And Daniel has definitely Narrator: It takes an for these hand-rollers roll, and twist about 1,000 bagels. Scott: It takes a certain because it's very tedious. You're cutting the same And I can tell who is rolling what bagel by the way they lock their Daniel has that little lip here that I noticed about Daniel's rolling. Then I can see, those And it gives each bagel Our bagels are like snowflakes. Every one is individually different, and that's what makes it special. Narrator: Once the bagels are rolled, they're placed on these racks, covered with plastic, and They then move into one of for at least 24 hours. Scott: What we're gonna do 'cause we still have to reduce the heat to stop the rising of these bagels. We tend to stop the proofing, where a lot of places tend so their bagels are bigger. There's a misconception that And they're not, by far. As you see, each rack has So you're looking at 10,000, 15,000 bagels right before your eyes. And this is only one of my Here's my second fridge. Again, you have racks of bagels. One, two, three, four. We have close to 7,000, 8,000 more bagels. So this is basically where we'll keep our everyday making of the bagels. Now it's time for fun and games. We're going to start baking some bagels. We'll always have two So there's a kettleman, So he'll control the flow of And then there's the guy on the oven that'll be his director. But the kettle is the because he knows when that bagel's ready to come out of that kettle. It's so important. Narrator: Once the bagels they're scooped over to boards with the appropriate flavors, or the very popular everything mix. Scott: Now, are these hot? But if you watch me, I'm in water to remove some of that heat. Now, this again is where So we're seasoning both Narrator: After workers they move the boards into the oven. Scott: Now, why we're because if we put these they would stick to the slate We put six bagels on a board. There's 16 boards And we have a Middleby It is the heart and soul of my business. We're able to produce up to Narrator: After a few the boards are flipped so the bottom of the Then they're ready to be Scott: See, these are so, look Look at that beautiful crisp crust. My son always does the knock test. Feel that crisp crust. Look at that steam Narrator: In total, Utopia and various sandwiches, like or the classic lox. 43 staff members make up Utopia Bagels, and they all work like to serve the 3,500 customers Scott: We're busiest on the We could have a line lasting for eight hours straight. But you get me crying about my customers, 'cause our fan base is like none other. It's like a landmark. Everybody's been coming It's like a home place for everybody. It's the atmosphere, it's Everybody's so nice here. And when you come in, you feel welcomed. Everything is good. I've been but there's no place like home. Scott treats you like Utopia Bagels is the best. Scott: The most important is right here. And I get emotional about it, Every worker here has heart and soul. It truly is something I live for and something we work at. My passion for making people smile with our food and what we produce is a joy for me. It really is. Oh, yeah, those are the Look at those colors. Narrator: This is the in New Delhi, India. Open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, the temple's kitchen, or langar, feeds 35,000 to 40,000 people every day for free. And on religious holidays, that number can swell to At the heart of this entire operation is kitchen manager Harbhej Singh, who makes sure there is Narrator: To keep up with demand, the kitchen uses specialized machines that can do everything from chopping vegetables to steaming the perfect dal. We visited the temple during a special holiday called Gurupurab to see how it makes a festive The day begins with making a type of sweet rice pudding called kheer, which is a special menu At the helm of the operation who's been overseeing Narrator: Large bags of white rice are poured into metal 25 kilograms of the washed rice is then scooped into and mixed by a mechanical arm. Narrator: Once the pot and it starts to boil, they pour in a large bag of wheat flour. Narrator: During the pandemic, needing to make more food with less staff. The solution was to introduce pots that could automatically stir and cook most dishes in half the time. Narrator: While the kitchen has embraced technology for cooking, many of the vegetables the kitchen uses are still processed by hand. One of the most popular dishes is aloo matar, a curry peas, and a creamy tomato sauce. Making this dish begins in a pot as a base for the tadka. Narrator: This is followed peas, and large ladles of tomato puree. Narrator: When the dish is ready, chefs tip the pot and Another curry dish the kitchen serves for the holiday feast is kadhi chawal, which is made with a and dried fenugreek leaves. When the base is mixed, chefs add gram flour and hung curd. Narrator: While the kadhi mixes, chefs prepare the final part They mix spinach, onions, in a large pot to make When they achieve the right consistency, the mix is then tossed into These fritters are then Narrator: Next up, the a simple vegetarian dish made It starts with a tadka base of cumin, turmeric, and chili powder. Then the chefs add in baskets They mix everything together and continue stirring until An everyday staple on the langar's menu is fresh dal, or split lentils. Green, yellow, and brown lentils are all washed by hand daily and added into a pot full of water. The lentils are then seasoned with salt, chili powder, and turmeric and covered. Narrator: Across the kitchen, flatbreads are made using machines. Narrator: While these machines make a majority of the there is another area of the kitchen dedicated to making these breads by hand. This is done so people can practice seva, or selfless service, a tenet of Sikhism. Narrator: The langar at 5 a.m. to serve food. Narrator: Because of the it's not uncommon for people to wait 2 1/2 hours outside to get a free meal. Inside the dining hall, side by side in long This style of seating is an important part of the temple's philosophy of promoting equality and Narrator: Once everyone is seated, volunteers known as sevadaars lead a religious chant Then the servers come around spooning large portions And while the amount of food there is a rule that not a single bite So plates must be clean Narrator: When a batch of workers sweep and wash the floors before another group is allowed to enter. Narrator: Every week, these three chefs make 10,000 meals by hand. Working 10-hour shifts, the chefs use specialized that can cook 800 servings at a time. Today, the kitchen is making And every meal comes chili japchae, pickled radishes, stir-fried garlic scapes, It's a tall order but worth the effort, according Narrator: We visited Mugga Dosirak to see how this kitchen prepares its lunch boxes in such big batches. The process begins at 4:30 a.m., when Ho-jun and his team for the day's menu. Chefs begin by washing and cutting 40 kilograms of white onions and 20 kilograms of green Narrator: Next, carrots are peeled, cut, and added into the same Once the vegetables are prepped, it's time to start unpacking the tofu. Narrator: The tofu is cut into cubes and loaded into metal trays, which are then wheeled Narrator: While the tofu is steaming, chefs start cooking the other in a large cast-iron wok. They add red-pepper oil and and 10 kilograms of pork together until the meat cooks through. Chefs then add in the basket as well as large ladles of doubanjiang, a savory Chinese bean paste chili peppers, and soybean. They season the mixture and to help adjust the consistency. Finally, once the tofu and mixed into the wok Narrator: And that's not the only thing that's custom in the kitchen. Chefs use a special machine to wash about 120 kilograms Narrator: The next order of business is making chili japchae. Narrator: While the japchae cooks, chefs start prepping the 40 kilograms of cucumbers are Narrator: Next, the kitchen Narrator: For dessert, the Narrator: Once fried, with condensed milk and When everything is cooked, employees fill small individual containers with rice and crab egg soup and scoop portions of the other six dishes into a divided tray. Each of these lunch or about $5. After 10 hours of cooking and packaging, the lunch boxes are then put into insulated containers and delivered to offices around the city Narrator: This restaurant preps, packs, and roasts hundreds of to make delicious doner. Pecenek Doner in Turkey has for over 45 years. Across three branches in Ankara, the restaurant chain can every single day to feed over 1,500 customers. We visited one of its kitchens to see how cooks prepare It starts with the meat, which owner Kazim Pecenek from the hind legs of dairy calves from the Kizilcahamam district in Ankara. Narrator: Kitchen staff that are thin and long to slice the large portions of Narrator: Workers fill this then salt it and cover it with the house marinade. Narrator: They massage each piece is generously coated. Once they've finished they neatly pack the into these metal containers. They cover the meat in plastic where it rests for two days for the flavors to meld Once the meat is fully rested, it's time to start assembling the shish. The process starts at 9 a.m., and it takes about two hours for cooks to stack For extra flavor and richness, they also add layers of tail fat. Narrator: Throughout the stacking process, workers repeatedly push down and shave off the outer pieces of meat to shape the doner into an inverted cone. These shavings get added with the tail fat, so nothing is wasted. For the final layer, workers flatten the remaining tail fat into a sheet that perfectly covers Then it's time to light the broiler and let the doner cook Narrator: The lunch rush usually lasts from 12 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. In this hour-and-a-half span, the restaurant serves Narrator: Because of doner's orders can be ready in as Narrator: The restaurant for the evening rush. While this ensures the freshness that customers value, it also caters to customers' varying Narrator: Doner has and under various names in But the ready-to-cut is believed to have been in Bursa, Turkey, by Iskender Efendi. The doner kebab is not Turkey's national dish, but it is among the countries' most popular foods. Every day, 900,000 kilograms of And although rice and salad are to this popular street according to Kazim ... Narrator: Pecenek Doner makes its lavash with a simple dough recipe of white flour, salt, yeast, and water. Once it's been properly mixed, the pieces are shaped, flattened, topped with an egg-yolk marinade, and finally cooked in a stone Each lavash is timed so that it bakes in the same time frame as the doner. Narrator: Once the cooks top the slices and sivri biber, a grilled spicy pepper that is traditionally served with roast or grilled meat throughout Turkey. Small plates of sumac are also served as sides Narrator: By the end of the meal, many customers are still Narrator: The recipe for also known as sutlac, took It starts with the milk from Jersey cows, which is boiled with for over two hours to reach Narrator: Cooks bake the inside the same wood-fired Narrator: This megakitchen in Japan carefully prepares 3,000 Since 1967, the Musashino City School Lunch &amp; Dietary Education has been cooking these meals to promote healthy eating habits Narrator: We visited its kitchen, Sakura Zutsumi Cookhouse, to see how these lunches are The day's preparation starts Staff members change into and color-coded uniforms and wash their hands twice This is Takagi. He is the nutritionist and he's our tour guide for the day. Narrator: The kitchen is and spans three-quarters the area of an American football field. Inside, 70 staff members working in unison to all of these meals in Narrator: Today's meal consists of millet rice, miso soup, cabbage and mustard saute, and milk. Takagi plans each meal so the team has enough time to source all of the ingredients and account for students' allergies. Every menu item he adds is tailored to fit the nutritional needs so every student gets they can possibly have. Narrator: This massive pot is large enough to cook 750 kilograms of soup at a time. The base of the broth is made by boiling thick slices of dried bonito Narrator: Most of the staff who work here are mothers of students. And many of them take great pride in knowing that the food is made with care and nutritional and healthy ingredients. Narrator: One of the most popular items the kitchen makes is shumai. Here, 15 staff members use 40 kilograms of soybeans, and a variety of blended vegetables to make around 200 shumai by hand. And by the end of the shift, they'll make about 3,000 shumai. Narrator: On top of monitoring allergies, the kitchen is diligent about food safety. Some of the meat used to fill the shumai is always saved and monitored Narrator: Besides safety, the kitchen prioritizes and local ingredients. Narrator: To make the rice, the Narrator: In total, 250 kilograms of rice will be made in a very using a special process. Narrator: And finally, this where the cabbage and 140 kilograms of the before getting sauteed with Narrator: Once all of the food is cooked, meals are portioned and loaded into five delivery trucks. Narrator: All of the ingredients used are funded by the students' families, who pay school-lunch fees. Each meal costs about 340 yen, or roughly $2.50, for and about 240 to 280 yen Narrator: This deg, or cauldron, located at the Ajmer Sharif is one of the largest in the world. Donated by Mughal Emperor Akbar in 1567, the deg measures 37 feet wide and was made in such a way even while the fire is ignited Here, volunteers are of a sweet rice dish called zarda to feed the 20,000 to 25,000 devotees who visit the shrine each day. Keeping a watchful eye is Syed Mujahid Ahmed Chishti, who is also in charge of Narrator: We visited the shrine to see how they make this sweet prasad in such big batches. Before any food is made, of donations left by pilgrims, which could include money, rice, lentils, or other groceries that the temple can use to make the prasad. Then it's time to start cooking. Making this dish is time-intensive and begins by lighting a There are four openings around the deg, and 50 kilograms of to keep the fire going strong. The devotees who have then gather around the cauldron to help with the dish's preparation. First, they fill the cauldron They also add jugs of which help add a depth of Narrator: Once the mixture starts to boil, volunteers carry bags of sugar and pour them inside. Then it's time to stir the mixture, which is easier said than done. Since the deg measures 37 it takes at least four volunteers to maneuver a large wooden oar. Two people push and pull while across the cauldron, two people use ropes that They move in tandem with each Volunteers then add in over and multiple cans of ghee. They continue to stir the and reaches a smooth consistency. Narrator: Dry fruits and and pistachios are added as a final touch before the dish is ready to be served. Narrator: That volunteer that are cleaned before each meal. They scoop the rice with buckets and pass them along a line Once these are full, volunteers scoop the sweet and hand them out to hungry pilgrims. Narrator: The deg and the tomb both have an incredible history. Narrator: But the cauldron on special occasions or at the dargah is very high. On most days, the temple uses known as the choti deg, which was donated by Akbar's Yet, regardless of which cauldron is used, thousands of pilgrims visit to eat the prasad and seek Narrator: During the month of Ramadan, this kitchen runs 24 hours a day, mashing goat, chilies, spices, and ghee into a thick and creamy For 25 years, Mohammed Abdul Majeed and his sons have been a popular chain known for making this dish on massive scales. Narrator: Haleem is popularly consumed by Muslims in Hyderabad during Ramadan, who often break their daily fast with this high-protein But that doesn't mean it's exclusive. Narrator: We visited Pista to see how it makes haleem The day begins with unloading and weighing all of the vegetables. Narrator: Mountains of and garlic are peeled by hand. The onions are then while the garlic is mashed into a paste. On the other side of the kitchen, hundreds of goats are and chopped into smaller pieces. Narrator: Every pot is filled followed by 100 kilograms of goat and 9 1/2 kilograms of green chilies. Once filled, the pots are for five to six hours. Then the lids are removed and a mixture of cilantro, basmati rice, and the ginger-garlic paste is poured inside. Once that has cooked through, a huge pot of soaked wheat flour is added. Narrator: Keeping a consistent temperature and constantly stirring the mixture are two of the biggest Narrator: Once the flour is mixed, it's time for the spices. Narrator: After the masala is added, they seal the pots for steaming, which allows the flavors Narrator: Next is the most of the cooking process, smashing the haleem. Workers pour large bags and use wooden sledgehammers to smash the haleem for 30 minutes in a process called ghota. Each of these hammers weighs 17 pounds, making this strenuous work. Narrator: When the mixture they add lentil paste and continue mashing for Finally, it's topped with boiled ghee, then scooped into thermal containers and wheeled to another room, where its weighed and At every Pista House location, haleem is served in to-go containers, and always with toppings. Narrator: Arab merchants are believed to have introduced haleem to sometime during the 17th century. Narrator: While haleem is many locals who are not and many of the people who buy this haleem have been doing so for years. Narrator: This team of bakers makes around 1,200 trays And master chef Mehmet Akincioglu has to pay careful attention Narrator: We visited Akincioglu Baklava to see how it makes its The day begins at 5 a.m. Hard wheat flour, water, eggs, and salt are added into a mechanical mixer and combined for 20 to 25 minutes. Once soft, the dough is taken out, cut, weighed, and kneaded into small discs that are left to rest for Narrator: The discs are and run back and forth to Narrator: Here, chefs roll 10 to 15 sheets of dough at a time and generously coat them in starch so they don't stick together. Narrator: Every sheet of dough is rolled until it's paper-thin. Narrator: The thinly rolled dough is then brought to a Narrator: Next, a mountain is added into the tray. Narrator: All of the are harvested locally and picked within 10 to Narrator: The pistachios are topped with another 15 to 20 layers of dough before they are taken Here, Mehmet and his team to the top of the baklava with melted butter. As with the pistachios, Mehmet from sheep that have been To retain its flavor, the Narrator: Once the last bakers cut the excess and Then they coat the tray and cut it again into The baklava is now ready to bake. Mehmet uses a traditional stone oven filled with oak wood to cook the baklava. Narrator: Each tray bakes depending on the style of the Once cooked, the baklava The baked baklava is placed on a burner to get the bottom crispy. When it achieves the right it's time to sweeten the dish. But if there's not enough sugar, the baklava will be too soft and dry. And if there's too much, it will lack the right Narrator: After three the baklava is ready to eat. Narrator: It's believed that baklava was adapted from a savory which was popular across Central Over time, it's believed with the Arab practice of in honey or sugar syrup. Some of the earliest come from the 1400s. It was enjoyed by sultans and remains a popular Narrator: Prepared in the neighborhood of El Matareya in Cairo, this is one of the largest On the 15th of Ramadan, the evening meal for is cooked entirely by volunteers, but there is no way all this food can only be cooked on the streets. We'll be visiting chefs Ahmed and the women preparing to see how they prepare this In the streets, chef Mohammed of shish tawook, a type which will be part of the main course. In the morning, the chicken after marinating overnight in onions, yogurt, mustard, and spices. The chefs then load before cooking them over coals. Narrator: The grilled and put on a metal platter for packaging. In another area of the street kitchen, chef Ahmed is making which is easier said than done. Narrator: While he's Ahmed makes several pots onions, ginger, peppers, saffron, cardamom, cloves, Narrator: While the main dishes other items like mahshi and kebab halla are cooked in 30 different homes by volunteers who have They receive their supplies from organizers like Ali Amin. Narrator: In her house, Umm or vegetables stuffed with rice. Narrator: The first step of making mahshi is making a tomato sauce. Narrator: After mixing it all together, they finish it off with cilantro. While Umm is doing Huda Hassan is busy preparing a type of onion-beef braised stew. Narrator: Back at Umm's house, she's hollowing out the vegetables so they can be stuffed Narrator: Once the vegetables are stuffed, she covers them with stock and boils them until Narrator: But to make enough mahshi and kebab halla to feed both of these women have help. Narrator: In the early afternoon, volunteers pick up the and bring them to the central Narrator: Volunteers form an assembly line and pack every meal by hand. Narrator: All of the food and placed on 500 tables stretching a kilometer down the street. Narrator: And when the sun finally sets, the community can enjoy their feast. Narrator: Every year, communities come together to cook a For 48 hours, 500 volunteers often without sleep, to prepare over 3,000 mole, and rice. And there's a lot riding on this feast. If all goes well, the community to support an important We visited Milpa Alta to make food for the junta The first day of cooking begins with washing and shucking 300 so they can be used to Yesenia Gonzalez Lemus is one with many years of experience making tamales for the junta. Narrator: While some others strain black beans that and transfer them into buckets. These buckets are then where the beans are boiled in water with onions, garlic, and lard. The cooked beans are then sent to a mill to be ground into a paste. Across the kitchen, butchers 1,200 kilograms of pork and beef. On the second day, large and masa, a nixtamalized corn The masa and black beans are where they're mixed with water, a mineral salt that since pre-Columbian times. Once mixed, the masa is where it's spread into a flat layer, then topped with black beans. Then workers cut the mix into and roll them up. These rolls are then where they're stuffed to become tamales. Narrator: Volunteers pile the and carry them to the cooking area. Here, they pour the that are lined with paper bags. They fill every drum to the top before wrapping it in a plastic bag, which helps steam the tamales. After they tie the bags, they light wood fires under each drum. The tamales start cooking and are left until early morning. The next order of business is making mole, a thick, rich sauce made with spices, and chocolate. The ground mole arrives which need to be sifted to Then the mole is added into where it's left with expert Gustavo Alvarez Jurado, has been helping make this Narrator: Mole flavor In Milpa Alta, a sweeter so sugar is added to the mixture. Making this mole requires so it doesn't burn or stick to the pot. Hector Quintin Meza is one of Milpa Alta's most experienced moleros. Narrator: While the mole cooks, another massive pot is filled with water and brought to a boil. This pot is what's used that was cut the day before. At 2 a.m., the rice is ready to be made. White rice, carrots, fresh tomatoes, parsley, and spices are all This year, the kitchen is using 25 pots that can cook 200 kilograms And by the end of the night, Central to these processes a role that is responsible for securing all of the ingredients and utensils needed to make the feast possible. This year, the responsibility by Paulina Jardines Narrator: Like mayordomos have been waiting over 20 and follow in the footsteps who served as a mayordomo in 2001. Narrator: At 6 a.m., to attend a mass. After the mass, the priest and blesses all of the food. In a tent, guests check in to indicate how much money to the mayordomo for the Everyone who pledges money receives a corresponding amount of food, which is indicated on their card. But really, the meal is who donates their time, Instead of eating in the their own containers from Narrator: Chalma is a for Catholics in Mexico, who make the pilgrimage on foot from various parts of the country. The site is also known for and people from all over come to seek blessings and miracles. Narrator: Before the Spanish conquest, Indigenous deities with magical When the missionaries arrived, and proclaimed a miracle cementing it as a religious site for Roman Catholics all over Mexico. Narrator: These cooks make for the 4,400 cadets here at the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York. Today, the team is making over 22,000 meatballs combined and 150 gallons of tomato sauce. And that's just for one of I would say in comparison we do things a little than most colleges do. Group: Attention all cadets. For lunch, we are having chicken. Narrator: There are lunchtime rituals, and each meal is balanced specifically for these future military Christine: On a normal day, between 12 and 1,500 calories Now, whether they eat and what they're choosing for that day. The cadets' nutritional because they are engaging in military training, as well as their physical exercise that they're completing here day to day. Every meal is earned, not given. So the fact that we are keep our military bearing, or long morning of classes Narrator: Meals at West Point are served here at Washington Hall, the historic mess hall where army cooks have been for nearly 100 years. News announcer: At mealtimes, the destination is Washington Hall, where the cadet gains during last summer's hike. And the food is tops and wholesomeness. Jason: Probably our most is our lunch meals, where the to get into the building, Faye: I think the one don't realize is how fast it all goes. So it starts at noon at formation. We all get in there by 12:10, and then after that the food is served to 4,000 people and eaten Narrator: But it's not just the cadets who have to move fast. Christine: A lot of the cook staff who have been in those and who have understood and what that looks like, so I think they try to structure the menus so that they may see similar things when they're out and not at West Point. Narrator: But how does the over 4,000 nutritious and eaten in under 25 minutes? Insider was granted rare to see how they pull it off. The food is prepared in a labyrinth of hallways, Jason: So feeding 4,000 cadets It is also a very well-oiled machine. We've got multiple My whole background in the Army has been in food service the entire 20 years that I've been in the Army. In the cadet mess, I have approximately 90 Department of the Army They're the ones that cook all the food. But we also have another that work in the mess here. And their job is to actually The challenges of preparing are substantial. Our staff is arriving and we're not opening for But the reason is because to prepare food for 4,500 cadets. Narrator: On the menu for today's lunch: spaghetti with meatballs, breadsticks, fruit salad, broccoli, and iced cake. Prepping enough spaghetti starts nearly two hours before lunchtime. In the large kitchen, cooks start the spaghetti by boiling 400 pounds of Then they add 22,500 meatballs, which they prepared early this morning, enough for each cadet to have five. With the spaghetti underway, cooks begin steaming Meanwhile, in the bakery, 400 cakes are being iced Back in the main kitchen, cooks drain the water from the vats and add 150 gallons of tomato sauce. While the spaghetti is simmering, cooks in a temperature-controlled for a lunch that won't be These cooks are opening two pallets of frozen ribs weighing 3,600 pounds and breaking them into pieces. Prepping meals days in advance is one of the methods to serve so many cadets so quickly. Jason: For menu development, I work with a dietician that works for the United which is upstairs from We come up with options using Army recipes that are in the Army system, as well as other recipes And we review those recipes, make sure that they meet that they need to meet for and then we try them out. I am a registered dietician and a certified specialist for the Core of Cadets at West Point. So the menus are structured that they are meeting all of So on the menus there's usually which are going to fuel their brain health and support their academic performance, as well as prime their moderate-to-high-intensity exercise that they're going to engage in. And then we usually have protein sources in order to support their And then we have a lot of different fruit and vegetable options. So fresh fruit, we have a cooked vegetables at the table, as well as a pretty robust salad bar that provides lots of antioxidants to make sure that they get that color in. It supports their immune system and makes sure that they combat some of that inflammation that's incurring from that intense exercise. Narrator: Once all the they're served into portioned containers and loaded into heated carts. We have around 50 to 75 So generally speaking, each hot cart will hold Group: Ten minutes until assembly for lunch formation. Before lunch formation and the plebes call minutes, and they say the meal for that day. Group: For lunch, we are having chicken, rice, and vegetables. Narrator: After receiving by freshmen, known as plebes ... Group: Five minutes remaining. Narrator: ... cadets get in front of Washington Hall While the students gather, members of the West Point Meanwhile, inside the mess hall, the waitstaff is setting out the water and bread for the 25-minute meal. Jeanaoh: Oh, it's like everything Before formation, we heard really telling us to Once the accountability then battalion, in the regiment, we all start marching to the mess hall. And really, the drums keep the cadence, and keeping our military bearing. Narrator: As cadets file in, the waitstaff has only six minutes to get the food from the We make sure that all the table is set in terms of etiquette and making sure that everybody has their The plebes are actually in charge of making sure that this Narrator: Meals at West that the cadets observe, like the plebes pouring Etiquette is a huge deal in the military. And so this kind of just reinforces from your first year here that Narrator: At the plebe end of the table, every seat has a specific Typically you'll have and that's your cold-beverage corporal. They will be in charge of making sure that everyone has a cup full of water, because there's water when you get there. And then there will be a at the end of the table. They're in charge of the desserts. And then to the right of is the hot-beverage corporal. That person is in charge of getting if there's soup in the buffet line or coffee in the mornings. Faye: And then the plebes which means so that they basically say the fourth class has and now we're ready to eat. And then at that point, we Narrator: Portion sizes are crucial to ensure each cadet is receiving their daily caloric intake. But some tables in the than the standard portion. Christine: So there's a variety with a variety of And they're always doing Narrator: Tables with receive a portion and a half, and tables with a &quot;heavy/heavy&quot; For some of the athletes that we have that have to maintain a higher such as football or heavyweight wrestling or some of our track and field throwers, they require more calories to be able to support that activity, as well as keep their to be competitive in their sport. So they may need more Narrator: For cadets, They're all coming here and honestly, all over the world, because there are So it's a way to make sure that they can build that camaraderie and build that teammate, build that team together by Narrator: For upperclassmen, breakfast and some dinners are optional, where they can choose from Another tradition in Washington Hall: All four years of students sit I love having a table with both freshmen, juniors, seniors. It definitely allows you to interact with people in your company And we switch tables So we get to build those new throughout our four years here. So I think probably the most favorite meal and something you'll probably hear a lot is there's a spicy chicken patty that the cadets absolutely love. My favorite meal here would probably be either spicy chicken or the sweet and sour chicken with rice. Favorite meal is It's like a hot dog burrito, I really do like taco Tuesdays. I also think they do a very My least favorite food would Probably the pork chop. I'm not really a big Sometimes they'll get burnt There's only so many Chicken is one of them that It's trying to find different or different ways to prepare the chicken so that their palate doesn't get burnt out from eating the same thing. Sherman: This is Washington Hall, inside the cadet mess area, as we call it. So behind me is the famous mural. The inspiration behind this was by Gen. Douglas MacArthur, class 1903. And in the 1930s, he became He worked with the academic board here, and they came up with the concept of battles, leaders, You'll see Alexander the You'll see siege rams and so on. All the states are by admission. So you got Arkansas, Texas, Behind me is the entrance when it was finished in 1929. So below me about three or and then the grass area out here. This was the front of the mess hall. So in the early 1960s, the idea was to expand the because the Army and which was only a few years old, had an enrollment top of 2,500, where the Naval Academy had So there's different but in 1965, the law was signed, and they started building, expanding. So they built out from the So at the end of the meal, normally they'll call &quot;Upperclass and then at that point, So at that point, the meal has ended. It usually only takes, for everybody to eat. And then we're on our Our next class starts at 12:45. Narrator: As the cadets begin the waitstaff cleans the tables. And back in the kitchens, the cooks have begun preparing dinner, which is only five and a half hours away. Narrator: This used to be the only way to make a Domino's pizza. About a dozen workers touched every ball of dough rolling down the production line. But now, in Domino's brand new $50 million facility in Indiana, machines measure, move, and stack pizza dough. And more and more, workers touch buttons instead of flour. Brian: You just have to kind of watch it, make sure it's doing the right things. Narrator: All this comes after years of stiff competition from other pizza chains and a struggle to find enough workers, even in the store. Kate: Domino's in particular was having a hard time fulfilling these roles that are not super high-paying and are pretty strenuous to work. Narrator: And as sales spike for pizza's biggest holiday, those machines will be put to the test. Carol: It's all hands on deck. Super Bowl is one of the, you know, top three busiest days for Domino's Pizza. Narrator: So how does the world's biggest pizza chain balance automation with a human touch? And what does all this mean for the future of fast food? Each year, Domino's slings out about a billion pizzas globally. Kate: They have been one of the most successful since around 2009, 2010. Narrator: The company can keep pizza cheap because it controls its from dough-making to delivery. In the US, it all depends on bustling production and distribution centers. Back in 2018, we filmed at an older with a more manual dough process. There, it took hours longer to make and chill pizza dough than at Domino's newest and heavily automated Indiana center. Noe: Now we have robots, so it's more efficient, it's more consistent. Narrator: There's a opened in October 2022 and reportedly cost the Jacob: We're constantly moving. From the second that we start, we're go, go, go. Narrator: While some centers still measure ingredients by hand, at the new ones, mixing machines pump in flour, water, oil, salt, and sugar directly from storage. Noe: And then we have a secret recipe, prepackaged recipe. I cannot tell you what's in our top-secret ingredient because we wouldn't be able to let you go out of here. Narrator: The new facility can churn out 50 batches of dough a day. Noe: That's 88,000 pizzas for our customers daily. Andy: Dough has a shelf life to it, and we don't freeze it. We constantly have to make it, so it's nonstop. Narrator: Workers in this new center mostly control the computers, pull samples for quality control, and troubleshoot any Brian: We don't like to stop. So basically, if there's anything that we're meant to clean out the problems fast, efficiently, and get them going so the line never stops. Narrator: Workers can program the machine to pop out different-sized dough balls for small, medium or large pizzas. Brian: And I just changed that tube out to give us a little Narrator: And then robots place the dough balls onto trays. That's another update, as this used to be done by hand. Noe: Nine years ago, it was team members So just imagine how hard that was on our team members. This has made it a lot less physical, and we're able to attract Narrator: A set of cameras makes sure the dough balls Noe: It's literally taking If it catches any this right here will reject each tray. Narrator: This machine applies a label to each tray. Noe: To identify what kind of dough it was and when it was made. Narrator: Behold the spiral chiller. About 3,000 feet of conveyor belts can cool 40,000 trays of dough at once. Noe: There isn't a cooler bigger than the one We're able to hold two and that gives us the in case we need to support other supply-chain centers. Narrator: They don't want to freeze it, because then it would stop the dough from proofing, or the rising that happens when yeast is activated. So they chill it down to 38 degrees to slow the proofing process. Noe: It's very cold in here. Our trays go up for 30 minutes and then come down for 30 minutes. Narrator: The dough used to take four hours to cool. Now, with the spiral chiller, it takes just one. The dough balls travel down another conveyor belt. Then, sensors tell these robots to stack them 25 trays high, a much faster process than the original way of doing it. The machine also slides a dolly cart under each stack to easily move them. Noe: This is the end of the line. We double-check that Then you push it. Narrator: Here, six handmade pan, hand-tossed extra large, large, medium, small, and wheat for school lunches -- await orders from franchises. And they have to move fast to prepare for the biggest pizza holiday, the Super Bowl. Noe: We normally see a 30% increase. So normally we go from producing half a million dough balls to 750,000 dough balls a week. Narrator: Noe says with all this automation, the center was able to cut hours off its dough-making time. And this production process requires fewer employees, an important feature of the new facility. Because less than a Domino's came face-to-face with the labor crisis gripping the entire food industry. By early 2021, the US restaurant industry was down 1.2 million workers. And there were lots of reasons why. Some workers retired. Some quit. Some trained for jobs in other sectors. And some relied on unemployment benefits. Employees left warehouse and delivery jobs at record rates. Kate: Domino's in particular was having a hard time fulfilling these roles that are not super high-paying and are pretty strenuous to work. Narrator: Warehouse Andy: In the summertime, this dry warehouse area, it can get super hot. We do have fans, and we have and hydrated, Narrator: That's where they keep the pizza sauce, dipping cups, barbecue sauce, pizza boxes, and the world's most Andy: Pineapple, for all those pineapple pizza lovers. The one area that we're is our freezer, which is below zero in temperature. Narrator: This freezer stores the cheese, all the meat toppings, and chicken wings. The veggie freezer holds just that: mushrooms, onions, and peppers. And a cooler stores the pepperoni. Andy: Staffing has been a real challenge across, again, the whole industry. Kate: So it's this kind of vicious cycle. When you can't hire enough people, it creates a lot of different problems throughout the business. Narrator: So here in Indiana, Domino's implemented new processes to make warehouse and delivery jobs easier on employees' bodies. At older centers, goods would be bulk-loaded onto trucks. So when drivers got to franchises, they had a mini grocery store and would pick out But at the new centers, Domino's has added a whole picking team. They grab all the ingredients and load them into cages. Each store gets its own cage. Andy: Which is just efficient and faster and easier. Jacob: The wheels on these carts make it so smooth to go in and out. Narrator: So when the drivers pull up, the pre-picked loads are waiting for them. Andy: This is where we do stage all of our product for loading. Narrator: Workers move and dough dollies onto 48-foot refrigerated trucks. Austin: We come in, and we place the carts in from left to right into the truck. We'll strap it every five rows or so to give it a support brace to hold everything in tight. We're heavily strapped in. It goes a long way to Narrator: On average, 13 stores' worth of goods can fit in just one truck. Andy: We do a lot of things that are kind of like &quot;Tetris&quot; here. Narrator: The center dispatches about 28 trailers. They supply over 300 stores across five states. Domino's wanted the new center to take the load off older supply-chain centers. Austin: All those centers were over capacity. Narrator: Most drivers to avoid traffic and crowded parking lots. Carlos: We actually just left the center. We're heading out to one of the franchisee stores. Going to make their delivery. My wife laughs at me every time, because when I go to parallel park my car, she's like, &quot;Why you pulling up so much?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Because I drive the truck more than I drive my car.&quot; And I got a little bitty car, too. So you could just imagine how many wide turns I'm doing in my little bitty car. Narrator: And he says a lot of drivers quit or retired in the last few years. Carlos: When the coronavirus hit, a lot of people weren't coming out. Narrator: It got so bad, Domino's launched a from anywhere else in the company to driving school. Carlos: We're arriving now. The store's right here Carlos: It has a store number, the stop number. So it's very easy to know what store is getting what. So these are dough trays. We take the old ones, bring the new ones in. So it's just a cycle. Narrator: The new picking have taken some of the physical stress off truckers. Carlos: Now, everything's pre-picked. So they've really made our job 100% easier and better and safer as well. Our on-time status has improved a lot, as far as the delays. We're only in-store 15 minutes versus an hour. Narrator: So was all in new tech worth it? Fast food correspondent Kate: It is working. Kind of all of these are working pretty well. And at this point, the labor shortage is kind of abating a little bit. Narrator: And Domino's has held on to its title of the biggest pizza chain in the world. It's nearly doubled its global store count in the last decade and passed Pizza Hut in sales in 2018. Kate: Domino's was basically able to steal a bunch of Pizza Hut customers. Narrator: But what does mean for the future of Kate: Automation is no longer an if, it's a when for fast food. There's definitely money to be made in using robots instead of humans. Narrator: And Domino's is not alone. White Castle already uses robots on some fry stations. And Jack in the Box is soon to follow. Robots are popping up in some KFCs and are set to start cooking chicken. And McDonald's is testing AI to take drive-thru orders. Domino's itself has to deliver pizza. Kate: If there is a robot for a lower price point than hiring people to do it, companies are going to jump on that. Narrator: Which leads Could robots take people's jobs? Kate: I personally don't think automating is an evil move. I think it's a bit more nuanced than that. Narrator: Kate says some of the lost jobs are actually OK to lose. Kate: Stacking boxes It can lead to injuries. Automating jobs that are repetitive, that are dangerous for workers, that are even just straight boring. That allows people to have the opportunity to have better jobs at a company. And I think that that's also something that shouldn't be villainized. Narrator: What hasn't become robotic is Domino's in-store experience. Kate: You can't automate everything. Making the pizza will stay human. Narrator: The company does have that &quot;hand-tossed&quot; slogan to live up to. Pizza chefs pull the proofed dough out of the fridge and still make every pie by hand. We're going to start Pull it out there, stick it in the cornmeal. You want to make sure It reduces the air in the dough. Narrator: Jessica ladles on a thin layer of tomato sauce. Next, you move on to the cheesing phase. You want to make sure you stay away from the middle. In all even amounts. Narrator: She drops on about 40 slices of pepperoni for a large pizza. Jessica: It goes through the oven, takes about six and a half minutes, and then it'll come out on the other side. Narrator: A squeeze of garlic oil on the crust finishes off the pie. Jessica: And then you close the box, and it's all complete. Narrator: But just because there aren't any robots tossing pizza, doesn't mean there isn't a hustle. Ready, set, go. Jessica: Done. Carol: Nice job, Jessica. Jessica: It's important for the customer aspect. Because when they're placing an order, they're hungry. Every pizza is a rush. The fastest pizza I've ever made is a large pepperoni in 25 seconds. Carol: It's all hands on deck. Super Bowl is one of the, you know, top three busiest days for Domino's Pizza. And before you ask, 59% of customers are going to order pepperoni. Narrator: And stores like this one haven't been spared from the worst of the labor crunch. Carol: Now there are challenges with staffing retention. There is the competition of, you know, all those other delivery businesses that Narrator: At the very end of the process, the hot pies finally Today, still by humans and fleets of electric cars. But maybe tomorrow, in driverless ones. Andy: We're going to to our customers and get it done. Narrator: This company of crawfish a day. Once they're out of the water, Farmers have just a few hours and into coolers. And these little guys have Madison: As soon as they're down extremely fast. Yeah, they'll get mushy and spoil. Narrator: These crustaceans for Louisiana. They contribute $300 million to the state's economy Narrator: But this industry didn't even take off until recent decades. In the '80s, some rice They experimented with cultivating below their fields. And it paid off. In just nine years, Madison of the biggest crawfish handling up to 4 million pounds a year. I Never imagined that it nor was it our goal. It kind of just happened organically. Narrator: But because the is so young, it's like the Wild West -- So how exactly did come to harvest crawfish? And why do they stay in Crawfish are freshwater to lobsters and shrimp, and bayous, rivers, swamps, and Madison: And if you look There's one right here. Narrator: They go by all sorts of names. Crawdads, crayfish, mudbugs. They come out the mud, literally. Narrator: From late September to October, rice farmers flood their fields, and the crawfish emerge By November, he can start Mauricio Guillen, on the crawfish boat, which doesn't have a steering wheel. Madison: And all that's controlled by foot pedals that are at his feet. Narrator: Armed with thick gloves, he empties each trap. He has just seven seconds load in more bait, and drop it back in the water. Madison: And that's just how much Narrator: He's got to move don't die in the Louisiana heat. Madison: Junior's pretty fast. He's a lot faster than me. Narrator: This table helps them weed out any unwanted critters, and it Madison: The smaller peelers You know, they'll go from underneath here and Narrator: But crawfish's big break didn't even come until the 1980s. Rice farmers' profits were dipping. So, looking for another income and cultivated crawfish Fourth-generation rice farmer Jim: It just works There's almost no better combination of vegetation to go with crawfish. Narrator: The rice plant provides a wetland for crawfish breeding and shade from the sun and plays host to microorganisms like Jim: The crawfish will feed off of those. Narrator: The crawfish's poop and the two crop seasons When farmers harvest the rice, the crawfish have safely deep into the mud. Once the rice is picked, crawfish emerge from By winter, they're ready Soon, buyers all over to South Carolina, began What was once just a local eat now makes up more than Narrator: Today, the crops are an important part of economies like Welsh, Louisiana's. Madison: All the crawfish in in a 35-miles-square radius of this area. Narrator: From November to July, rice farmers end up with tons of crawfish packed into sacks like these. Junior and his team will and book it to the crawfish dock. In the summer months, they and in the cooler within three hours, or else the heat could kill them. And dead crawfish breed bacteria. Once cooked, it's but the meat falls apart, Madison pays rice farmers for their catch. Unlike most crawfish-mongers, from a farming family. In 2014, he and his friend Charlie started selling them out of Madison: At an abandoned gas station, we would serve boiled on the weekend. Narrator: It was so successful, he bought more trucks and expanded into a full-fledged enterprise, While a lot of crawfish of the process, Madison does it all, along with his dog, June. and buys from 36 other rice farmers. He also owns a company a processing plant, and restaurants, cutting Madison: Now, we have a We run 14 trucks seven days a week, 24/7. Narrator: Madison washes some of his catch on this $150,000 machine. Every day. Every day. But you get used to it. Narrator: Not only do they they have to watch out for runaways. Madison: And they're Narrator: Crawfish have to hit the coolers right after washing to keep Madison tries to move the within 12 to 24 hours, but Madison: It's all pretty There's no contracts. You have to be careful, of your crawfish in the and then as soon as the catch picks up, they can leave you and Narrator: Stranding It can be a lot of pressure. Narrator: The low-grade, for him to move, because Madison Then he sends it to his to process the tail meat. Workers start unloading the crawfish off the trucks starting at 4 a.m. They dump them into tanks and skim off any dead or Then they give the mudbugs a wash. A conveyor belt drops them Using a system of tracks, a worker carefully lowers the basket into a vat of boiling crawfish go in alive That's why it's so important until this moment. It takes just two minutes Then Madison and the team rake them down this steel table Leona Williams has been Narrator: She can peel about Narrator: They get paid $2.50 a pound. Narrator: The team in the next room vacuum-seals the tails into 1-pound bags. Because competition is so stiff, Madison wouldn't tell but he said they end up across the US. He also sends tail meat and whole crawfish to three restaurants he owns in the state, cooking up all kinds of Crawfish have been an important part of southern Louisiana's According to the Native Heritage Project, the Houma Indigenous people for crawfish and used it as a war symbol. In the 1800s, a wave of French Canadians settled in Louisiana after being forced out They came to be known as the Cajuns, and they brought their But short on lobster here, By the 1960s, crawfish and Creole restaurants were adding them to menus in New Orleans. It was definitely a Louisiana delicacy. It didn't really get much Narrator: Crawfish has since But locals still cook them into staples like etouffee, boudin, and boils. Madison's business uses a Cajun cooking style Charlie: Make sure the drain's shut. This is liquid boil, so I'm Narrator: He first boils drains them, and then Charlie: Right there, when the tail starts to kind there's that little white line. You can see the meat. That's usually a telltale Narrator: While New Orleans Creole chefs add dry seasoning to the out here, Cajuns dump on the dry seasoning after they're cooked. Charlie: We shut that ice I think the magic That's when they start to Narrator: Down here, folks well into the evening. The Cajuns also love their dip, while back in NOLA, they Narrator: With his factory Madison has become a considerable player in the crawfish industry. We're building a new facility on air-freight crawfish. Narrator: But his success hasn't come without its challenges. As the industry boomed lots of people tried to By 2019, the number of crawfish farms in the state had doubled. And then came inflation. Madison says costs soared 40%. Last year, fuel alone cost That's a lot of money Yeah, labor's pretty high, and Narrator: Ninety-five percent of his staff is working in the US on a visa. Madison: And we always have to house them and pay for transportation. You can't find local or American labor that would work as hard as these guys do side by side with us. Narrator: Madison says he pays them just under $14 an hour, almost Madison: And we'll put in 15- and So it's very demanding. We don't get to see our family but they don't get to Narrator: Soaring operation costs and low margins have forced dozens of Louisiana crawfish companies to close. Madison: And so the people that came in just for the get-quick-rich because of how tough the market is. Narrator: Madison says the size of his company has helped keep him afloat. Madison: You know, we could but a lot of people Oh, we don't get big salaries. Narrator: Madison said saw $500,000 in profit last year, and he paid himself just a $20,000 salary. He also says he invested more than 80% of the profit Madison: So if anything ever we have backup everything. You know, backup trucks, backup freezers, backup coolers. We have multiple forklifts, Narrator: Because in an could send a company packing, Madison has to fight to Madison: I think, you know, it'll be very lucrative because there'll only be a That's where it's at. Narrator These cooks are grilling 4,200 beef tenderloin steaks at the US Air Force Academy's 225,000-square-foot dining hall near Colorado Springs, Colorado. And that's just for dinner. Over the course of three meals, will make 590 pounds of hash browns, 375 pounds of eggs, and 90 pounds of bacon for breakfast. Lunch will require an 1,700 pounds of waffle fries, and 5,400 burger patties. On any given day, the cooks This is the biggest dining You're looking at 430 and you got a starch, a You're looking at about 1,300 pans of food that are going on the table on Narrator: But feeding isn't the same as feeding Their energy needs are quite high compared to the average person. Where most people are trying these kids, I want them eating and consistently throughout the day. Narrator: And on top of lunch comes with a set three days a week. We got to see how one of the military's largest dining facilities cooks massive quantities of food across three different meals. Mitchell Hall has an annual In 2022, the dining facility purchased 546,000 pounds of meat, 1.2 million pounds of produce, and 21,000 gallons of milk, which were served across Today's dinner is not just any meal. It's the cadet wing's Recognition Dinner. Motaz Ahmed: Recognition where the freshman class is put through a many stressful event to test their mental and physical stamina. Once you make it to Recognition Dinner, it's a sense of accomplishment. The freshman class is recognized as fully qualified Narrator: To celebrate, the 1,600 pounds of tortellini, and 788 pounds of orange-glazed carrots. The first steak hits to ensure the meal is ready on time, five hours before dinner is served. The steaks move in an They're removed from their packaging, then placed on the grill, where they're seasoned and then cooked. They're then moved into a pan, wrapped, and wheeled away to be stored in hot carts to keep them warm until dinner. At the other end of the kitchen, the premade pasta is poured into pans, topped with pesto Parmesan Alfredo sauce, and moved into a rotating oven to cook. Preparing this much food requires an incredible But not just today; a meal like this is planned out more than a month in advance. Maurer: We really want to work six to eight weeks ahead and commit, we call it committing our And sometimes we'll find there's a holiday meal, so we need to make special preparations for any special events Narrator: And the Recognition Dinner is one of the most In the front of the house, the dining area is prepped for the cadets. Back in the kitchen, onions, are cooked with a medley of seasonings for the vegetarian beef stew, while the rest of the staff strains 788 pounds of vegetables and moves them into hot As cadets begin filing freshmen, known as fourth-year cadets, typically have to pass for the table. After that, the the Air Force Academy as they wait to be seated while upperclassmen quiz them. Tonight, the fourth-years become fully recognized and will no longer have River Ferrari: So, during we're required to come in here, and after everything's set up, we have to hold our &quot;Contrails&quot; at the position of So, they make us do this, because we're standing at So, on Saturday night, it's and have your upperclassmen Potassium, 160 milligrams, 4%, sir! Ferrari: And then you like they would with We're, like, yelling at and it's just a really cool experience, tradition that we do. Sir, the answer is the bunny! Narrator: Before dinner ends, the wait staff brings a dessert made earlier in just for today's occasion. Ferrari: The Mitch's workers came in, and they brought us these boxes, and we're like, &quot;Oh, what's that?&quot; Then they opened them, and it's just this pile of dessert. And so it's pound cake on the bottom, topped with a bunch of and whipped cream and cherries and American flags on top And so that was one of for us as freshmen. Narrator: After the meal, the staff in charge of the In just eight hours, a fresh to prepare the next meal. Kenny McElroy: Good morning. Our headcount for today We had to increase because of So, breakfast, we have scrambled eggs, bacon, and the roundabout hash browns. Let's have a good shift. Narrator: This morning, the to prepare breakfast for 1,500 students. It's a smaller meal because unlike most cadets aren't required to attend. But it's still a challenge Oscar Haliby: The biggest is making sure that we to make sure that the job We are open seven days a week, and we do serve three meals per day. So the work never stops. Narrator: Like many other kitchens, Mitchell Hall is still recovering caused by the pandemic. The eight cooks on staff for this meal boil 375 pounds of heat up 90 pounds of bacon, and cook 560 pounds of hash browns in an industrial-sized fryer Kuzio: As our staffing dwindled, we've had to go to a lot of For instance, boil-in-bag mashed potatoes, boil-in-bag mac and cheese. It's a very time-saving opportunity for us with the short staff that we have. Narrator: It's a proven method of nutritious food with The staff will spend the transferring breakfast items into pans, where they will be set on the serving line for cadets to grab and go or dine in. But just as breakfast is being served, lunch prep is already underway. Kuzio: So, lunch today, the cadets are getting what They're getting waffle fries today. Again, they get run through Then we got the lettuce, that come in fresh, and those get placed Narrator: On Monday, there's no room for error All 4,000 cadets are required and they're only given 20 minutes to eat. There's only about a 30-minute window that they have between classes. Then right after that, or military training. So there's only a small window built in for them to eat in Mitchell Hall. Maurer: That limits their options. We can't provide endless so they do get their one main option. We usually have a and we have a vegetarian Where at a traditional college, you're going to go in different types of cuisines available. We don't have that necessarily here. I think it's just the is the biggest difference in how we provide food to our cadets. Narrator: Prepping the burger takes about four hours. Cooks start by laying out the before moving them into In another part of the kitchen, cooks work together to feed into the deep-fryer conveyor belt. As the fries exit, they're that are later loaded into hot carts. Meanwhile, vegetables in two 100-gallon kettles. McElroy: So, what we have steam-jacketed kettles. We cook a very diverse amount Right now, we're doing Italian vegetables. That's one of the vegetables Typically on veg, we'll do about 200 pounds' worth of Narrator: On the lower staff works to wash, chop, for meals planned later in the week. Prepping food days in advance allows staff to seamlessly serve Kuzio: Thursday, Buffalo chicken wrap, Buffalo chicken tenders for Narrator: But even more is planning the menu weeks in advance and storing the meals 20,000-square-foot warehouse. Maurer: When we are ordering foods, that order goes in all at the They get put into a category, and depending on that category Once everything comes up the elevator, we'll separate it and take it We have four storage departments, the warehouse, the Narrator: While the warehouse and stocks next week's food, the kitchen staff is wrapping up lunch, moving the last few batches Outside, cadets get into which is mandatory three days a week. The Air Force Academy band begins playing as the cadet wing marches Newsreel: 2,500 men in the making march en masse to mess for Narrator: Since the Air Force Academy was established, in 1954, cadets have been required Once inside, fourth-years set Ferrari: We set out all the plates. We set out forks, knives, I was at the position I pour the waters and set And then the person next to which, he would get all the food ready, everything, the meat, the He would set that for each Narrator: Today is the since Recognition, where those responsibilities They dine like the rest of the cadet wing. Maurer: It is impossible nutritional needs and and so really it's working on just emphasizing the and how that affects not only but their physical performance as well. Narrator: The Air Force Academy follows the nutrition standards which requires its most active members to eat up to 4,700 calories a day for men and 3,000 a day for women. Mitchell Hall provides as much not including food from Falcon Express, the grab-and-go station Maurer: I order every single So I try to balance it out too with things that are that provide a lot of energy and nutrition with some fun things as well, like Cracker Jacks and potato Narrator: At 12:15, lunch comes to an end. Cadets clear their tables The wait staff begins cleaning the tables and resetting the dining area. Back in the kitchen, the cooking staff starts which will be served in five hours. Narrator: This is what looks like years before It starts here, aging inside these barrels in southern Louisiana. It takes five years to make It's a long time. Narrator: And the recipe since 1868: red peppers, And even as the company's grown, it's managed to keep inside its headquarters on Avery Island. But Tabasco's storied The factory is surrounded making it vulnerable to hurricanes. And the company has spent It changes drastic You can see the marsh deteriorate. And what you do is you get out there and you plant again. Narrator: We head to southern Louisiana to see how the sixth generation is fighting for the survival Tabasco grows peppers just for seeds We're also looking for the richest color red peppers, that perfect size, and then flavor, too. Narrator: Christian Brown is the great-great-great-grandson of founder Edmund McIlhenny and the company's agriculture manager. Everything's looking Narrator: He sends only to over 1,000 Tabasco Tabasco says their peppers originate They're about six times And they are tiny: only and weighing a gram each. Because the peppers are so machines don't do the harvesting. Christian: They're all handpicked. Narrator: Tabasco of peppers a year. This footage is from Louisiana, but the process looks They sprinkle salt on the peppers and use a giant machine Farms ship the paste back to Avery Island through the Port of New Orleans. Stefan: This mash is actually from Peru. We have 50,000 pounds of Tabasco mash inside that container, bulked in. Narrator: This pump siphons the paste into white oak barrels. Some are 60 years old. Stefan: Most of these barrels in here essentially are used bourbon barrels. Stefan: I don't really have the answer. I know it works, and we've so I'm not changing it. Narrator: A team works together to fill and seal each one. One truckload will fill up to 110 barrels. But they can't overfill them, because ... Stefan: If you have too much pressure, sometimes those caps blow off. Sometimes the lids will pop off overnight. So it's a really simple fix. Just kind of move it to Narrator: It can take 30 Since they're old, the barrels So workers pour salt on top. It lets gases escape Stefan: The salt on top is If there is an imperfection, Narrator: The team stacks Stefan: So this whole bay here, to get to the wall, is about 1,100 barrels of Colombia 2022. Narrator: The mash releases lots of gases during fermentation. So a tiny valve on top You have to have some ventilation process, or it's going to explode. Narrator: And that happens sometimes. Stefan: It is like a Tabasco ghost. They come in here at night, And we come back, and there's Narrator: After three will stabilize, shrink, Stefan: We can see that it was filled about this level here. And you can start to see rings where the mash is going down. Narrator: Even though it's shrunk, the aged mash is still really spicy. Not yet, not yet. But it is hot. So let's remember, this than actual sauce. Narrator: Next up, the aged mash is pumped into the blending room. Here, the pepper smell will hit you right in the back of the throat. I could say like getting It really hits you hard. Well, that's how I put my kids to college, so I'm good with that. I love it. Narrator: Morris Montgomery but he goes by Nuk. The Army veteran ensures all even though it's coming Nuk: I try to do three or and put them together. So it could be like a little Colombia, Peru, and a little Ecuador and Honduras. Narrator: He pumps in vinegar and blends it all for up to 28 days. Seventy-two tanks mix at the same time. Strainers remove pepper pulp and seeds. Nuk will take a sample for the lab to test for pH, and then ... Nuk: This is finished Tabasco Next step, to the bottling floor. Narrator: That's where John: And I'm also a member of the McIlhenny family Narrator: John's factory fills up to 700,000 bottles every day, from minis to the iconic 5-ounce one. It also pumps out nine different flavors, from original red to habanero. Sriracha is the company's Today, machines do most of the filling, capping, and labeling. John: So a bottle's going to Narrator: They gather the bottles and package them into cardboard boxes. John: We're doing it really fast, Next, the shipping room. John: We've got product for the Canary Islands, South Africa. Narrator: Typically, all leave the warehouse within three weeks. While the sauce is definitively global, Avery Island has always been home. This was where founder and former banker Edmund McIlhenny first grew the tiny red peppers. He bottled his first hot sauce in 1868, sealed it with wax, and around the Gulf Coast. Each one cost $1. He named the brand Tabasco, known for spice production and exports. Edmund got a patent for was selling his bottles across the US and even in Europe. And then it kind of started and get bigger and bigger. John: In one 24-hour period, and then some more of what Narrator: Edmund lived on Avery Island, which is a natural salt dome rising 163 feet above sea level. As the highest point it's been a respite from raging hurricanes for the McIlhenny descendants that still call the island home. But it's now at risk. Louisiana's coast sinks by an average of a third of an inch per year. On average, between 1985 and 2010, the state lost roughly a football field of wetlands every hour. When land sinks, it's more Heath: It changes drastic depending where it makes landfall at. You can see the marsh deteriorate. Narrator: Heath Romero is He said when Hurricane Rita hit in 2005, it turned this island into a lake, and parts of the marsh were destroyed. After Rita, the company with a pump system around the factory. Heath: We put in water-control structures to stop the salt water from Narrator: They also planted Heath: You can see, we That was open water at one time. Narrator: But it's a slow-moving process, especially as the home of Tabasco enters another hurricane season. Heath: You can't wait for You have to take action in your own self and try and protect what you have.