Today I need to score one impossible Starting with this 40 rated team look how bad they are... any goal with this team is tap it in and it's a goal! Let's go to the next rating but from now on the wheel it will be 95 already let's go score a bicycle kick with them this is my 95 rated team but the player we Team of the Year Ronaldo all right this is it Ronaldo from here, right now what a save right here yes! why are you blocking it? Ronaldo... bicycle... yes what a goal! Give him a little, give him a little SIUUUUUUUU wait wait wait VAR is saying it was a scissor we keep going Ronaldo this is the one we need a bicycle yes! oh it's a save Dudek let that in man he's ready... he's not ready Ronaldo yes! it didn't go in either Ronaldo all alone and he's blocked Ronaldo just be ready just be no wrong guy finally there we go... What a goal! please VAR confirm that one VAR confirms it, that is a bicycle kick what is our next rating? it is going to be 90. Panenka. This is the 90 rated squad we got some icons in here but the player we need to score the panenka with is my pen merchant Lewandowski all right not only do we have to score come on ref - ref please flick flick flick someone follow me! please please just get angry just get angry yes he's angry, he's angry, he's angry okay there's no way that wasn't a pen over there how - how did no one follow me okay this is the one we're going it didn't work that's a pen! yes what this game is corrupt how is this not a pen is this allowed - are you allowed to go how is that legal let's go, great ball, flick, yes! no I scored I've never had that happen it was going to oh my days look at this I would love yes finally! please just dive out of the way now just got to breathe just and we're on to the next rating there we go! what's it going to be this time this time we're going to use the 60s and we got to score a finesse with them nothing very fancy about this 60 Squad I don't even know who is able Let's hope at least one play player is no way no way it doesn't have no why was that the weakest shot ever yes finesse it's blocked we still have the ball cut inside great tackle, one more okay that guy just knows how to tackle this is it...you better score this and he does we'll give you a little we're on to the next rating what rating is next... the 50s! and we have to score a header again nothing special here we got a bunch of 50 rated players let's hope someone wait... flick... head and he missed this may finally be the one head the ball... yes... how - they still saved it please please please let this be the header finally what a goal let's go to the next rating lot of 90s still on the board and we're going to get 93 which is a Trivela now in this 93 rated squad we have but the player we want to score the it's Luka Modric but this isn't just any Trivela we it is so nice using a team that's not 50 rated attempt number one... get in why is that such a weak shot okay Modric try that again what? I got to get closer I'm just going to go like this cut across and here why is it not going in the air there we go ohhhh! right in the little and he skipped my replay... never skip my replays you know what we got to do 1 2 3 my work here is done which one will we get this time 94 free kick now we have some world class players in this team Cold Palmer the hardest part might be winning just foul me here ref... ref there we go good chance here why are you stepping up he only has 83 free kick first attempt it almost went in ref please for the love of football call something finally I won a free kick again all right Cole show me what you got hold on what if I do outside is it possible... oh no way all that just to get a corner Cole just do me proud man put this one away... for me... oh what a goal by Cole Palmer! new celebration is in let's go to the next rating oh oh someone turn on the air conditioning? six ratings remain on the we have to score a power shot now you might be thinking power that's why it needs to go off the crossbar and in now the 80's rated team is nothing too is Marcus Rashford he does have the power shot plus play style Let's go Rashford off the crossbar yes! it went off the crossbar it may have been the post though I need to no I think it was the post it was right now off the crossbar... no oh right now off the crossbar did it - how are none of right here crossbar and in yes! please please please please just don't hit the post it hit the crossbar let's go get our next rating what's it going to be this time and we have to the dribble past Let's check out our team with Mbappe in the squad we have yes it is a Madrid kit yes I'm a Barca fan and all I'm going to say but with that being said there and it's an icon I pack every it's Eusebio and he is the one we need to not only do we have to run into the net we let's see how this goes come on come on run into into the net no Szczesny let that go there we go breakaway Eusebio do me proud flick...run run let's go next rating the flick never fails 96 97 92 and 70s remain on the wheel we have to score a scorpion the 96 rated squad is the we got team of the season Ronaldo we even have Chhetri but there's a player missing, his name Neymarcito who will be scoring the scorpion for us I hope no way they're just going to let me walk in scorpion - that's not a scorpion but what was come on Neymar good chance here, perfect chance no again I messed it up come on Neymar this is the one come on...no that looked come on Neymar last play of the game he did it but it didn't even get to the net but in the next match I got even closer back now... now no he saved it! Casillas saved it Are you seriously rage quitting but I just kept trying again and again oh here we go come on Neymar do it do it do it yes! there's the it took 3 hours almost let's hope this one doesn't take as long it's going to be 92 and we there are so many good players in this and that man is Lev Yashin we need to score a goal with now the easiest thing to do would be but that's not allowed we need ref call it call it ref there we go okay the plan is - you'll see we need Yashin he's going to what the heck was that pass what am I doing NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO okay that was probably a bad idea. all right we're going to play it short and okay if we go all the way on we actually still have it we it almost went in it almost worked we're doing it again let him walk in what if I just power shot from here that was actually incredible. come on Yashin - what he let me score! thank you give him a - no we shouldn't we got the goal let's go to the next rating why have they let me score which one will we get next and the 70s are up next and we have to score a volley saving the best for last I guess the thing is there's nothing really special about this man Diaz has only ever played one game for 1 nil... near post far post what a start let's see if we can score a volley with him flick, volley I swear if that went in I think flick, volley oh great save Alisson ohh look at this, flick, volley what a strike! Diaz take a bow how do I let's go to the final rating. Ankara Messi which means we have to recreate We have to dribble past the highest rated, the most Lionel Messi welcome to the 97 Ankara Messi, Ankara Messi what a move - around the keeper YES! That's Ankara Messi that was me scoring one and if you enjoyed this video make sure peace!