- [Babish] This episode Google Fi is a phone plan by Google. It's easy to set up no activation fees, and no There are three plans to choose from, so you can pick what works I love the Unlimited Plus 100 gigabytes of cloud Learn more today at fi.google.com. The link is in the video description. (upbeat theme music) Oh, cool, you took your but now what are you gonna do Apple pie? Snore. Applesauce is for babies. What are you gonna do, eat 'em raw? What are you, some kinda horse? No, no, no, you pat your golden you put on your favorite microfleece, queue up some Phil Collins, you make apple cider doughnuts. I'm not sure what this character Apple cider doughnuts which not only pair well with apple cider, they actually contain apple cider, so that's the first thing we gotta make. As you can see, I'm thoroughly pureeing in batches in a food we're gonna strain to create what I was surprised The fresh, unpasteurized stuff you get in the jugs at the apple farm, turns out, is little more than I'm using a mixture of Gala, for a good balance of tart and sweet. Once all the solids you can either just sip on or, for our apple cider doughnuts, we need an apple cider concentrate, which we're going to I've got about 500 that I'm gonna place in a wide saucepan. The wider, the better, because more surface area We're simmering this for anywhere until it's reduced to about 1/4 cup. Allow this to cool completely, and then we can get down to Into the bowl of a stand mixer we are depositing 125 75 grams of brown sugar, and which we are going to cream together by virtue of the paddle anywhere from five to six depending on the Then, one at a time, we two large, room-temperature eggs, scraping down the bowl Once you've got that all done, it's time to start combining our wets and drys in separate bowls, since, unlike traditional apple cider doughnuts are So into one bowl, we're combining 570 grams of all-purpose flour, 1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, 3/4 teaspoon baking soda, 2 and 1/2 teaspoon of ground nutmeg. Then, in another bowl, we are combining 170 grams of room-temperature buttermilk, our cooled apple cider concentrate, and 1 tablespoon of vanilla paste or 1 1/2 teaspoons of vanilla extract. Tiny whisk each of these until homogenous, and then we're adding them in the dry, wet, dry, That is, we're adding 1/3 making sure it's completely incorporated before adding 1/2 of the wet ingredients, once again mixing until homogenous, then another 1/3 of the then the last 1/3 of the dry, scraping down the bowl This should result in an which is a good thing, because that we pour into a pan before baking, we're going to roll That is, after covering and or until firm enough to do so. We're gonna do this on a very, very well-floured work surface, because this is a sticky dough. Don't let that intimidate you, and don't be tempted to add That's how you end up with We're rolling this guy out to anywhere from 1/2 to 3/4 inch thick and beginning the undeniably fun process of cutting them into of floured and buttered biscuit cutters. Place the resultant doughnuts and their accompanying doughnut holes on a parchment-lined baking sheet and rinse and repeat with You can re-roll the scraps They might be a little bit tougher from the extra flour being but they'll still be good. Go ahead and punch the remainder and then these guys are filled with either preheated to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Very carefully drop in your which will initially sink to the bottom, then float to the top. And anywhere from two to four minutes on their first side, Give 'em another two to three and once they're deeply go ahead and evacuate them onto a paper towel-lined Don't forget to fry up They're fun for kids from ages 9 to 99. Now, almost immediately after frying, while the doughnuts and still have a little bit we're gonna wanna give them a thorough dunking in some cinnamon sugar. Make sure you do this as soon as your delicate little Otherwise, the cinnamon If you're like me and a little bit too long, you can cheat by giving them a quick Consider it a lesson learned Once you've got all dipped and dusted, they cannot legally be served in the state of New York without a cup of hot spiced apple cider, which, unlike the sort of is more like an apple tea, you get to say bon apple-tea and mean it. I got 10 or so apples that and placing in a large Dutch oven, along with an optional sliced orange, which is obviously gonna A couple inches of roughly brings a nice gingery flavor. A few sticks of fresh cinnamon A couple allspice and maybe one whole nutmeg, uh, nut complete the crisp fall-time tapestry. Cover this guy up and bring Once simmering, cover with a lid, lower the heat to maximum lowness, and simmer gently for two hours or until the apples are completely soft. Then we're gonna uncover and simmer for about 30 more minutes to concentrate the flavors. Then, all there is left to do is strain it through a fine mesh sieve, making sure to press on the solids to extract every last little bit of delicious liquid, and if you like, sweeten it to taste with 50 keeping the whole affair until ready to serve. Now all we gotta do is or paper cup for apple orchard accuracy, plate up our doughnuts, and enjoy them alongside one another. And if you grew up anywhere this immediately to crisp fall mornings where to wake up early and go apple picking. But now you get to do it in your PJs, underwear, or my favorite, nothing at all. Thanks again to Google Fi for Fi is a phone plan by Flexible, Simply Unlimited, I chose Unlimited Plus because in addition to unlimited data, calls, and texts, it also includes 100 gigabytes of cloud storage with Google One. Fi is great because you or purchase a new one. One feature I love is that that are suspected to With my plan, I also have unlimited high-speed hotspot tethering so I can upload videos on the go. Learn more at fi.google.com. The link is in the video description. (mellow jazzy music)