TOP TEN MOST EXPENSIVE MEN'S SUITS IN THE Hook most expensive suits and how much they sell In this video, we show you the 10 most expensive at the end of the video. Watch the video up to the end to find out their price tags! Are you excited to see the suits with the Do tell us if you think they are worth the Intro with women, but in a world of luxurious fabrics men's suits are still ridiculously extravagant For most of us, the thought of paying $1,000 Of course, when you factor in the cost of the rarest fabrics, hand-tailored, and sewn only a penny. Inevitably, most of these suits are reserved This is the essence and allure of exclusivity world. SCRIPT 10. Ermenegildo Zegna Bespoke-$22,000 houses have created some of the most luxurious The Italians are known for their precision Ermenegildo Zegna is one of Italy's leading Over 100 years old, he began his career in Zegna makes suits for brands such as Gucci, one of the world's largest producers of luxury Lightweight, luxurious, and sophisticated, generation of the Zegna family. It is made to order and is reportedly made The use of different fabrics is not just an Wearing and styling are important, but so Zegna works for such popular houses as Gucci, 9. World Wood Record Challenge Cup Suits - $28,000 Record Challenge is. This is a competition sponsored by and sponsored owned by brothers Luigi and Sergio Loro Piana. Each year, they invite up-and-coming designers The best designer will be voted on, and 50 and sold under the Loro Piana brand. The 2012 winner was a woman named Susanna She produced wool that was only 11.1 microns the fabric and drape), and suits made to her 8. Brioni Vanquish II - $43,000 Italian luxury clothing store Brioni decided by unveiling its most expensive line of suits It is a suit that uses the ultra-luxury fabric Vanquish II uses a blend of the world's rarest They only make 100 of these handmade suits white gold. Nazareno Fonticoli and Gaetano Savini founded Brioni suits are a favorite of mogul Donald best known for wearing them with James Bond. 7. Desmond Merrion Supreme Bespoke - $47,500 tailors on London's legendary Savile Row. These fine hand-tailored suits cost about As Merion himself said, &quot;I hand sew every No machine ever touches the garment. This handwork is the absolute pinnacle of Your suit takes so much time that it can't It takes months to create a perfectly tailored The finished suit looks like it was molded &quot; And energy is expended, so it's no wonder A masterpiece of elegance and lavishness comes 6. Kiton K-50 - $60,000 designer brand of men's suits. He employs 330 tailors who receive approximately It takes up to 25 hours to sew each suit, The K-50 suit was designed by the world-renowned The suit is made from merino wool. The name K-50 has a double meaning. It takes him 50 hours to complete each suit, The suits took most of his time to complete 5. William Westmancott Ultimate Bespoke - $75,000 neighbor on Savile Row. But what makes his Ultimate Bespoke $28,500 Well, this Westmancott suit is a 3-piece instead When William Westmancott produced this particular years old at the time. Due to the high cost of the fabric, Wetmancott that the pattern would work properly. Westmacott's experts said it took him 200 and expensive suit. 4. Zoot Suit - $78,000 sold for $78,000 at the Augusta Auction in Augusta Auctions is a second-hand clothing sold this suit for $600-900. When the calls started coming in from museums she could sell the suit for &quot;up to $5,000, eager bidders would make her more expensive. I never imagined the price would be achieved. This is the only suit to be auctioned in the It was discovered at a New Jersey real estate 3. Dormeuil Vanquish II - $95,319 look and essence of luxury with garments that The House of Dormeuil offers garments of exceptional finest fabrics and made to order according The Dormeuil family business was founded in The Vanquish II fabrics are the brainchild finest British and French fabrics to design They are said to have served royalty, presidents, This particularly expensive suit is made from ambassador, and Dawsilk; Kargsey White, Fifteen 2. Alexander Amosu Vanquish II Bespoke - $101,860 Amos is a luxury entrepreneur. But he sold this exquisite suit for over $100,000. He made his fortune by making hip-hop ringtones and diamonds. In 2009, he founded his own clothing company. It was made from the two most expensive types kivik. It was custom-made for an anonymous buyer. It is also reported to have been delivered Each suit comes with nine buttons in 18K gold 1. Stuart Hughes Diamond Edition - $892,500 suit is a ridiculous $1 million. The price is understandable when you see what Renowned luxury designer Stuart Hughes collaborated to create this extravagant work of art, one These suits took him over 800 hours to design silk. What makes this stunning pant-and-jacket combo The World Diamond itself keeps all the lavishness gets more exciting. Diamonds Over 480 half-carat diamonds are making them the most expensive (if not strange-looking) Call for action always been the pinnacle of men's fashion, masculinity, and absolute confidence in the What do you think about how suits affect the What are your reviews of the above-mentioned Do let us know in the comment section whether If you like this video, don't forget to friends. Press the bell icon for exciting news and