So, I have a strange career. I know it because people come up to me, &quot;Chris, you have a strange career.&quot; (Laughter) And I can see their point, because I started my career And I was thinking about quarks and I was only 14 years old... No, no, I wasn't 14 years old. But after that, I actually had my own lab in the Computational and I wasn't doing any neuroscience. Later, I would work and I would work on systems biology. But I'm going to tell you I'm going to tell you And I was actually a rocket scientist. I wasn't really a rocket scientist, but I was working in sunny California, where it's warm; whereas now I am But it was an exciting experience. One day, a NASA manager sits down and says that's my office, right there, and I had a nice office He said, &quot;Chris, can you please tell us, And that came as a surprise to me, because I was actually hired Yet, I had a very good answer. I said, &quot;I have no idea.&quot; (Laughter) And he told me, &quot;Biosignatures, And I said, &quot;What is that?&quot; And he said, &quot;It's any that allows us to indicate And I said, &quot;Really? Because isn't that easy? I mean, we have life. Can't you apply a definition, for example, a Supreme Court-like And then I thought about it &quot;Well, is it really that easy? Because, yes, if you see then all right, fine, No doubt about it. But here's something.&quot; And he goes, &quot;Right, Except, if you think that life you're not in luck with this thing, because that's actually It grows up into the adult stage like that and then goes through and actually goes backwards and backwards and then actually grows back up, Sort of yo-yo... and it never dies. So it's actually life, but it's actually not And then you see something like that. And he was like, &quot;My God, Anyone know? It's actually not life, it's a crystal. So once you start looking and looking So this particular person wrote &quot;Hey, these are bacteria.&quot; Except, if you look a little bit closer, you see, in fact, that this thing So he was convinced, And then, of course, and President Clinton about this amazing discovery Except that nowadays, If you take the lesson then you realize, well, actually, Maybe I do need a definition of life in order to make that kind of distinction. So can life be defined? Well how would you go about it? Well of course, you'd go No, of course you don't do that; And then you might get something. (Laughter) And what you might get... And anything that actually refers you throw away. And then you might come up And it says something longwinded complicated, Who on Earth would write something Oh, it's actually a really, really, So I'm highlighting just a few words and saying definitions that are not based on amino acids but in fact on processes only. And if you take a look at that, this was actually in a book that I wrote And that explains why that NASA manager Because the idea was that, maybe we can actually And so if you go and ask yourself, let me give you a whirlwind tour And it started out quite a while ago, when someone wrote one of the first And for those of you you have no idea Namely, through these floppy disks. But the interesting thing was that, if you look at the rate they show this spiky behavior And it is in fact due to this arms race between hackers that things go back and forth. And the result is kind of a phylogeny that looks very much that we're used to, So is that life? Not as far as I'm concerned. Why? Because these things In fact, they have hackers writing them. But the idea was taken when a scientist working &quot;Why don't we try to package in artificial worlds and let them evolve?&quot; And this was Steen Rasmussen. And he designed this system, because his viruses But there was another scientist And he went home and says, And he wrote the Tierra system, and, in my book, is in fact one of the first Except for the fact that these programs So having seen this work, this is where I came in. And I decided to create a system that are necessary to see, in fact, more and more complex And of course, since I really don't know I had two undergraduate students at California Institute of Technology That's Charles Ofria on the left, They are now, actually, at Michigan State University, but I can assure you, back in the day, And I'm really happy of the three of us But what is this system like? Well I can't really go into the details, but what you see here But what I wanted to focus on There's about 10,000 And all different strains And as you see here, there are groups because they are spreading. Any time there is a program due to whatever mutation it has acquired, it is going to spread over the others So I'm going to show you a movie where you're going to see And these kinds of experiments are started We write our own stuff, replicate it, And we put them in, is that there are waves By the way, this is highly accelerated, so it's like a 1000 generations a second. But immediately, the system goes like, This can be improved upon So you see waves of new types And this type of activity until the main easy things And then, you see where the system essentially waits for a new type of innovation, which is going to spread over and is erasing the genes until a new type of higher level And this process goes on and on and on. So what we see here is a system that lives in very much But what the NASA people &quot;Do these guys have a biosignature? Can we measure this type of life? Because if we can, maybe we have a chance of actually without being biased So I sat down a little bit, and I said, &quot;Well, if we do this, perhaps we should construct a biosignature that is based on life In fact, it should perhaps make use just in order to sort of capture And the thing I came up with... I have to first give you and maybe that would be rather than a life detector. And the way we would do that... I would like to find out that was written by a million monkeys, And I would like to do it in such a way that I don't actually have to be able because I'm sure I won't be able to. As long as I know So here would be a frequency plot of how often you find in a text written by random monkeys. And obviously, each of these letters But if you now look at the same it looks like that. And I'm telling you, And if I look at French texts, or Italian or German. They all have their own type but it's robust. It doesn't matter whether it writes It doesn't matter whether it's a poem It's a robust signature, and it's very stable. As long as our books Because people are rewriting them It's going to be there. So that inspired me to think about, in order, not to detect random texts but rather detect the fact in the biomolecules that make up life. But first I have to ask: what are these building blocks, like the alphabet, elements Well it turns out, we have for such a set of building blocks. We could use amino acids, we could use nucleic acids, In fact, chemistry's extremely rich, So that we actually, to test this idea, first took a look at amino acids And here's the result. Here is, in fact, what you get if you, for example, look on a comet or in interstellar space where you made very sure there is no living stuff in there. What you find is mostly and there's some trace elements That is also very robust... What you find in systems like Earth where there are amino acids, But suppose you take some dirt and then put it into these spectrometers, because there's bacteria or you take water anywhere on Earth, because it's teaming with life, and you make the same analysis; the spectrum looks completely different. Of course, there is still but in fact, there are these heavy that are being produced And some other ones they will not appear at all So this also turns out It doesn't matter what kind of sediment whether it's bacteria Anywhere there's life, you're going to have this distribution, as opposed to that distribution. And it is detectable Now you could ask: Well, what about these Avidians? The Avidians being the denizens where they are perfectly happy So this is the distribution that you get They have about 28 of these instructions. And if you have a system where it's like the monkeys Each of these instructions But if you now take like in the video that you saw, it looks like this. So there are some instructions that are extremely valuable and their frequency is going to be high. And there's actually some instructions So they are either poisonous or really should be used In this case, the frequency is lower. And so now we can see, I can tell you indeed it is, because this type of spectrum, and just like what you've seen it doesn't really matter it's very robust, it's going So I'm going to show you now And I have to explain to you, the top of this graph shows you that frequency Here, that's the lifeless environment where each instruction occurs And below there, I show, in fact, And I'm starting this that even if you would drop that would otherwise happily grow up if you drop it in, it gets mutated So there is no life possible But then I'm going to slowly and then there's this viability threshold where now it would be possible And indeed, we're going to be dropping So let's see what that looks like. So first, nothing, nothing, nothing. Too hot, too hot. Now the viability threshold is reached, and the frequency distribution and, in fact, stabilizes. And now what I did there is, I was being nasty, And of course, it reaches And I'm just showing this to you You hit the viability threshold. The distribution changes to &quot;alive!&quot; And then, once you hit the threshold where the mutation rate is so high you cannot copy the information without making so many mistakes And then, that signature is lost. What do we learn from that? Well, I think we learn One of them is, if we are able to think about life And we're not talking and we're not talking about amino acids, and we're not talking about bacteria, but we think in terms of processes... Then we could start to think about life not as something but that, in fact, could exist anywhere. Because it really only has to do of storing information Anything: bits, nucleic acids, And make sure that there's some process so that this information can be stored The time scales for And if you can do that, So the first thing that we learn is that it is possible to define life without referring at all as far as the type of life on Earth is. And that, in a sense, removes us again, like all of our scientific discoveries, It leads to s continuous Of how we think we're special Well, we can make life; Granted, it's limited, but we have learned what it takes And once we have that, then it is not such to say, if we understand that do not refer then we can go out and try other worlds, figure out what kind of chemical figure enough about the normal chemistry, so that we know what this distribution and then look for large This thing sticking out, which says, Now we don't know that there's life then, but we could say, &quot;Well at least I'm going to have to take and see where it comes from.&quot; And that might be our chance when we cannot visibly see it, as I've shown you. And so that's really the only Life can be less mysterious when we try to think And if we remove the mystery of life, then I think it is a little bit easier and how perhaps we're not as special And I'm going to leave you with that. And thank you very much. (Applause)