In January of 2024, right on the heels a major storm slammed into the Hawaiian islands buildings, and heavy rain flooded roadways. the rain reached some of the generator unit megawatts of power off the tiny grid (roughly 10% panels weren't producing much electricity, and the and Waiawa were running out of juice. maintenance scheduled during the cool winter the H-POWER trash-to-energy plant tripped all of Hawaiian Electric's power and it was clear that they weren't going to have you can't increase supply, the only other At around 8:30 PM, the utility implemented rolling demands down to a manageable level. For about 2 of the island for 30 minutes each to minimize this writing, rolling outages have been forced on and scheduled maintenance at backup facilities, When we say "power grid" we're used to imagining tens to hundreds of millions of people. But electricity too. Those recent power disturbances come from building and operating a small to use the 50th state as a case study to and this is Practical Engineering. Today Really, I should say Hawaiian power grids, has its own separate electrical system. Around Hawaiian Electric, which maintains grids and Molokai. Kauai is the only island with its proposals and false starts to connect the islands single grid. It is an enormous challenge to and distance. When you add in the volcanic and ecology of the surrounding ocean, so far, no each island has its own power plants, high-voltage system entirely disconnected from the others. "Reliability" is the name of the game grid. It's not that complicated to build et cetera. What's hard is to keep them all rain or snow. Yeah, some parts of Hawaii This is a graph of a typical reliability curve that helps explain why you can get big increases with a small investment. each increment gets a lot more expensive. in many ways, reliability comes from you need flexibility to keep the grid up. But, maintain equipment and infrastructure that rarely Hopefully, it's clear that the graph I to put concrete numbers to the question. our inability to predict the future, and the interconnected all make it practically impossible any incremental improvement in reliability. clarify the benefits of a large power grid, For one, it smooths out demand. One part of a weather. From east to west, the peak power demand some get shade. But overall, demands average out geographically. Larger interconnections also reducing the impacts of major equipment problems power plants, again creating redundancy and maintain those facilities. And, the power plants economies of scale to make energy less expensive larger areas have more resources. Maybe it's build wind turbines. Maybe this area has lots power efficiently without having to pay for a wide area interconnection allows the costs operations to be shared, making it easier to keep Roughly 75% of the electric power in the run on petroleum. There are no oil or natural gas of power on the islands comes from fuel imported susceptible to factors outside of its control, price of oil. Each island has only a handful And when storms happen, they often hit the entire costs in Hawaii are around 3 times the average reliability costs more than the one before it, and with. So, they get passed down to consumers. The bulk of the remaining roughly 25% of Hawaii's plants comes from renewable sources: wind, has the obvious benefit of reducing CO2 emissions, complexities of the fuel supply chain and price actually available on the islands. But, renewable challenges, particularly when they represent Of course, renewable sources are intermittent. or the sun doesn't shine. That sporadic or firm baseload to make up the difference more complicated to forecast the availability of and so on. And, it requires those storage and up very quickly as the sun and wind come and are also considered "low-inertia". Thermal enormous turbines to generate electricity. Those stabilizes the AC frequency. The frequency of the heartbeat. It's a measure of health, indicating If frequency starts to deviate too much, equipment disconnect themselves to prevent damage. The same consumer devices. When conditions on the grid suddenly trips offline - the rotational inertia in and help the grid ride through with a stable connect to the grid through inverters. Instead of current, they're basically just a bunch of little faster and more significant effect on the grid, difficult to keep things stable. I'm planning a work, so stay tuned for that in a future video. Of all the renewable energy on the Hawaiian small-scale solar installations, like those on collectively known as "distributed energy of bringing resources closer to the loads, takes advantage of space that is already developed the utility to invest in new facilities. But, parts of the grid are built for power to flow the downstream end can create unexpected loads it. Distributed sources also affect voltage and passing over a neighborhood can dramatically swing small solar installations are generally dumb. can't communicate with the rest of the grid; they point of connection. The grid operator doesn't sources are putting into the grid, and they have tell them to reduce power if there's too much support. And inverters, especially consumer-grade ways during faults and disturbances, Those inverters can also make the grid more depends on individual owners. It's not hard to of a large number of distributed sources distributed resources affect the revenue that contentious. The rates a customer pays for many of which don't really evaporate on a that demand from the grid. Fixed costs like even if that infrastructure is being used at a it gets even more complicated to figure out really saving, not to mention how those savings And, these challenges are only becoming more launched in 2008, set a goal of meeting renewables and increased efficiencies by 2030. setting a goal of completely eliminating fossil of the most fossil-fuel-dependent states in they've taken some big steps toward that goal. 10% to about 25% of the total already, and a more opportunities for renewables on the for most new homes. Rebates are available for in the state was controversially shut down battery storage, and biofuel turbine projects For better or worse, Hawaii has become a challenges involved as they become a larger and to be a bridge fuel to renewables, a firm resource stable in price than other fossil fuels. But the climate and their own energy security, they've the world, but also forcing them to work out some one ahead of you to work them out first. There as Hawaii grows closer to its goal. Smart grid tools to automate fault detection, recovery, efficiently across distributed resources. Hawaiian encourage customers to shift their power use to and reducing the need for expensive generators That idea really underscores the significant operating. Improvements and capacity upgrades and they cost more for every additional and kilowatt-hours don't come a la carte. frequent nomad who isn't bothered by the idea rate for less dependable service. And if you use always-connected job at home, you can't pay Hawaiians are all in it together. Drawing that what's just gilding the electric lily is tough and opinions. Doing it on such a small scale, quickly growing portfolio of renewable energy also creates opportunities for some really cool secure, and flexible energy future, not just for If there's one thing I learned from researching Hawaiians care a lot about how their state complexity in the history and culture, and it's not from there, and I'm not. And that happens think would be strictly about the science The private Odysseus lander (kind of) weeks ago. There's not a lot of politics in you can see it through slightly different lenses. 289 news outlets, 35% lean left and 20% lean relatively similar across the political spectrum, Right-leaning news outlets tended to focus while left-leaning outlets ascribed more of the With today's sponsor, Ground News, it's and rise above the biases that are inherent you get a quick visual breakdown of the political sources. Everything's in one place, so it's easy have a well-rounded understanding of the story. outlets are owned by Media Conglomerates. One of shows you stories that are mostly reported by I don't think we'll ever get but reading the same story from different would be harder to come by just using my more confident that I'm not living in a bubble me what I want to see. And they're offering a the description. Subscribe to get a more ground dot news slash practicalengineering link is in the description. Thank you for