The US of A is the serial killer capital humans for sport to the Killer Clown from was the worst killer from each state, and 50. Wyoming - Population: 580,000, Wyoming has the lowest population in the United serial killers, with 32 cases over nearly 30 Rodney Alcala, aka The Dating Game Killer. Yep, he spree. Alcala murdered at least nine people victims, letting them come to, and then doing 49. Vermont - Population: Vermont may be famous for its peaceful vibes, and 1983, he kidnapped and murdered three did horrific things, and left their bodies 48. North Dakota - Population: North Dakota doesn't have a huge serial killer The Great Plains Butcher. Back in the early 1900s, under his house. His crimes weren't discovered 47. South Dakota - Population: Congrats, South Dakota! You've got the lowest with just 10 recorded between 1992 and 2019. are super low, but that didn't stop Robert LeRoy from making headlines in the mid-90s. kidnapped and tortured two women, before but never made it to the execution - he was found 46. Delaware - Population: Delaware's claim to serial killer The Route 40 Killer. Between 1987 and 1988, tortured them in his car, and beat them to 45. Rhode Island - Population: The smallest state in the US still gave and one incredibly unique killer: Craig while only a teenager back in the 1980s, American history. But that didn't stop One victim, 27-year-old Rebecca Spencer, was 13 years old. Spencer stabbed 39-year-old Joan daughters, whom he also murdered. He was only frenzied that the blade broke off and was 44. Montana - Population: Here we see the numbers start to climb 2019. The state's most infamous killer is who was posthumously connected to at least Nance often liked to invade the homes of his own gratification before shooting them to death. the end - When he tried to murder his bosses, the tables on their would-be killer and murder him Next up is something really 43. Maine - Population: Despite being the land of Stephen King, Maine only you head back to the bloody decade of 1884 to and her six unfortunate victims - all She poisoned two of her husbands and four of while trying to murder her third husband. And Now, let's take a look at one of the 42. New Hampshire - Population: Despite only having a mercifully meager New Hampshire gave us serial fraudster also known as The Chameleon Killer, believed to spree from 1978 to 2002. Like Mary Cowan, many who were tormented and murdered under His chameleonic nature allowed him to get away shove, they were still only ever able to convict But our next killer was never convicted at all... 41. Hawaii - Population: The beautiful land of Hawaii only had but from 1985 to 1986, it also acted as the an unidentified serial killer who And you thought Mark Zuckerberg As the moniker suggests, the killer attacked and strangled them, often leaving their bodies and in one case, wrapped in a tarp. For all we Now let's take a look at another 40. West Virginia - Population: While these country roads may take you home to to 2019, you might not leave alive. Especially if serial killer who likely murdered over eight While working as a nursing assistant, insulin to her patients. She was also searching them online and watching killer nurses. Who knows if an aspiring But there's a far more prolific monster on the way 39. Idaho - Population: Idaho's number of serial murders is roughly on from 1992 to 2019. One strange case is Thomas of five murders, but has claimed as many as Creech claims to be a contract killer, to and to even have committed human sacrifices for that Creech is telling tall tales to pass the The crimes of our next killer, 38. Nebraska - Population: Two things are true about Nebraska: There's plenty of corn, and there were But its most infamous murderer technically and his crimes are so well known that they made Charles Starkweather took the lives of 11 1957 and January 1958, aged 19 years old and Anyone who ran into them had a good chance of Starkweather's Winchester Model 1906, But this next killer's crimes 37. New Mexico - Population: Despite what you might have seen on Breaking Bad, to 2019. But it also had one killer that makes Ray, the Toy Box Killer, who was suspected to have what he did to his victims before he killed He tortured his victims in a cargo trailer he allegedly spent $100,000 on designed specifically to live out his captives - Including things we literally cannot dying abruptly of a heart attack before The less we say about this one, the better... 36. Mississippi - Population: This state had 98 serial killings from 1992 to Leroy Evans, a remorseless predator who preyed on claiming anywhere from three to Violent crime would also be the end of Evans' when fellow prisoner Jimmie Mack stabbed him to death during a prison altercation. But Evans looks downright chill 35. Kansas - Population: Dorothy Gale's home state is responsible for 181 of the most twisted, murderous masterminds in known as BTK - his self-given nickname standing BTK murdered at least twelve people, his namesake with brutal home invasions that victims' security systems. He even taunted the caught when he flew too close to the sun, and Would you believe our next killer is even worse? 34. Arkansas - Population: We're starting to see statewide murders climb, to 2019. One particularly gruesome killer was the frontman of KISS - a mass murderer several others, totaling 16 victims, Simmons was a monster before he having long carried a campaign of abuse and strangled all of his victims, Arkansas' most prolific killer, and the 33. Nevada - Population: This arid state is mainly known for so it's unsurprising that there were It was also home to Carroll Cole, a lowlife from 5 to 30 victims from 1947 to 1980, time as he destroyed life after life. Murder first killing at 8 years old, drowning 32. Iowa - Population: Iowa is one of the safer states where murder from 1992 to 2019. But back in 1961 and 1962, out his own family, one by one, until But while Gayno kept it in the family, 31. Utah - Population: A state known for its natural beauty and desert from 1992 to 2019. One of the most violent and Gary Bishop, responsible for the murders of After a long history of predatory behavior when he lured young children into his apartment games - where the boys were tormented, mutilated, And our next killer was even 30. Connecticut - Population: Connecticut isn't just just known for its killings from 1992 to 2019. Among its also known as The Roadside Strangler and The Egg women from 1981 to 1984. He was a ruthless killer He was caught and eventually put to death by supported, despite being a critic of the The Roadside Strangler, didn't crimes - It was given to him by a British But his numbers pale compared to our next killer... 29. Oklahoma - Population: The stats once again jump with Oklahoma: slouch in pumping up the numbers was one claimed between nine and thirty-four lives Stafford murdered the Lorenz family during a botched robbery, though was connected to many other murders before But Stafford's bloodthirstiness was nothing 28. Oregon - Population: Oregon is a beautiful state to visit, killings from 1992 to 2019. One of its known alternatively as The Lust Killer and The Brudos abducted and killed four people across 1968 car, basement, or garage, after which he would keeping the feet as souvenirs for later. Yes, Now, how about a killer who's truly prolific? 27. Kentucky - Population: The proud state of Kentucky can boast 212 its most prolific killers was hospital orderly, who ended the lives of anywhere from 37 pain of his victims, but in the end, he was He smothered victims with pillows, and morphine. Turned off life support. Killed many others, his life would end with violence: 26. Louisiana - Population: Louisiana had 344 serial making it one of the more violent it's the state where you're second most Rising to the occasion is the monstrous Ronald who killed over 23 men and boys on a Despite his large number of victims and the Bayou Strangler isn't well known many of his victims were underprivileged a common kind of victim for serial killers. 25. Alabama - Population: There's plenty of bloodshed in the Heart of Dixie: 199 serial killings from 1992 to 2019. One violent man who ended the lives of four women From killing a woman during an armed robbery when beating and shooting women with no remorse. and finally got the lethal injection in But his crimes are nothing 24. South Carolina - Population: This state has known 198 serial killings a killer more infamous than Donald "Pee Wee" Meanest Man." Over the course of his murder from 15 to 110 victims. And his killing After being paid to do so, he slipped shoe of fellow inmate Rudolph Tyner, killing him. He was executed While our next killer isn't as 23. Minnesota - Population: Not everyone in Minnesota is so nice, from 1992 to 2019 to prove it. Most memorable as The Weepy-Voiced Killer, who claimed three But the murders themselves aren't what he would call the police and confess to high-pitched voice. The recordings are still out But what about a killer styled after 22. Colorado - Population: In the Rockies, no one can hear you scream. and neatly in the middle sit the life and as Hannibal - He's confirmed to have committed Kimball was a serial forger and con and during his tenure as an informant, he decided how he earned his "Hannibal" nickname. Unlike The same cannot be said for our next killer... 21. Wisconsin - Population: This state had 118 serial killings from spree went from 1978 to 1991. We're talking, of The Milwaukee Cannibal, who mutilated, murdered, As one of the most rightly infamous killers preyed on gay men of color, the exact kind be looking for. In the end, after being Dahmer got his just deserts when a fellow inmate, But let's keep this cannibal train rolling... 20. Maryland - Population: Maryland can be a sketchy place sometimes 2019 to prove it. But to the best of our research, the only killer who boasts about turning who murdered anywhere from 5 to 13 people from While, like many killers, he likely exaggerated there's no denying that Metheny was women and confessed to attacking homeless people invite to the neighborhood barbecue, Let's move on, we're getting queasy here... 19. Missouri - Population: Missouri had 350 serial killings from in the list so far. One of the state's most believed to have murdered sixteen people over the He was another killer who used lying and illness to lessen his charges. But he's nothing 18. Indiana - Population: Indiana had 349 serial killings from 1992 matching Missouri's freak. The most infamous an unassuming man who murdered picking his victims up mainly from gay bars. He lived a double life as his body count rose, being involved in two different series of Hollow Farm murders. Baumeister killed out for his arrest, so our knowledge of He's just as mysterious as our next killer... 17. Massachusetts - Population: Talk about Mass Murder. This state had one of the most nightmarish among them was Alfred Gaynor, who claimed the lives The one commonality is that Gaynor liked to get and strangled the unfortunate women who fell that's probably best not to think about. Let's 16. Tennessee - Population: This state saw an upsetting 208 and among these is the singularly weird Paul who claimed seven victims over his Paul had three things: An incredibly and homicidal urges. When he couldn't he decided to make a little extra money robbing a Baskin-Robbins, and a Captain D's - But for our next killer, murder 15. Arizona - Population: Arizona saw 188 serial killings from 1992 to 2019, but 2005-2006 were particularly bad for the despicable Mark Goudeau, aka The in addition to the rest of his insane crime While Goudeau is the dubious star of known as the Serial Shooters, Dale were also at large, killing But these three killers combined didn't 14. Washington - Population: Washington had 396 serial killings from have a strange pull over serial killers. the second most prolific serial killer by murdered 49 to 90+ women from 1982 to 1998, though Ridgway strangled his victims, most before dumping their bodies. He would his son in his wallet in order to put And we've got bad news: the 13. Virginia - Population: The Commonwealth of Virginia was host to but just before that, Alfredo Rolando Prieto 1988 to 1990. Like a lot of murderers, he met his But is it worse to kill for pleasure... or business? 12. New Jersey - Population: Tony Soprano's stomping ground experienced so it only makes sense that this entry is also known as The Iceman because of to hide their time of death. He least five people but claimed to have killed Kuklinski was also a pathological liar who seemed Jersey's ultimate badass, so the specific numbers Our next killer, on the other 11. Michigan - Population: Michigan had 425 serial killings from and their most horrific serial killer The Sunday Morning Slasher, who claimed from From 1974 to 1982, Carl began habitually and even drowning female victims, which soon he would die of prostate cancer in prison. Hey, all this horror is making 10. North Carolina - Population: North Carolina had 295 serial killings also known as The Taco Bell Strangler, tormented and murdered eleven black taking advantage of the police's slow response This allowed him to claim more leading to substantial criticism of how Charlotte Police. In either case, what happened to Now, let's look into a certain devil 9. Georgia - Population: Keeping up with our trend of escalating from 1992 to 2019. And from 1979 to also known simply as the Atlanta Monster, slayed Williams had a variety of modus operandi and in all cases, he displayed extraordinary second season Mindhunter, which carries a 8. Ohio - Population: Ohio had 505 serial killings from 1992 to 2019. in Ohio was the Cleveland Strangler, Anthony women, all but one of which were mothers. He but terminal illness took him before Our next diabolical killer wasn't so lucky... 7. Illinois - Population: We're getting into the real heavy hitters now. to 2019, but none were more repulsive than the We're talking about John whose murderous rampage claimed the lives of 33+ up wedged into the crawlspace below Gacy's him the Killer Clown? Because he sometimes But Gacy isn't the only killer who 6. Pennsylvania - Population: Pennsylvania had 462 serial killings from more disturbing than Harrison Graham, a mentally 1986 to 1987. When not entertaining the local he was strangling women to death during He was only caught when his neighbors emanating from Graham's apartment, have killed many more if he had the same 5. New York - Population: New York had a recorded 677 serial of its most gruesome and depraved killers was who killed 9 to 17 women from 1989 to 1993. He was he thoroughly dismembered and destroyed the bodies 4. Florida - Population: Here, we enter the top five states where you're Florida accounts for 933 serial killings from 1992 back in 1989: Theodore "Ted" Bundy, one of the He murdered 20 to 36+ women, often returning Bundy's charm was his greatest weapon into the lives of his targets, by faking disability. Their kindness But is everything bigger in the 3. Texas - Population: Texas racked up 984 serial killings from 1992 to puts even some of cinema's scariest killers to claimed 28+ victims from 1970 to 1973. He got his free candy to local children...when he and his Corll and his two teenage minions lured where they would be tortured and humiliated killing spree only ended when Corll was 2. California - Population: Thanks to its truly massive population, from 1992 to 2019 - the most of anywhere miracle - The most prolific serial killer Samuel Little committed anywhere from 60 though police have not ruled out these Little committed his brutal killings, mainly 19 different states, often picked up for petty number of murders. And if we're lucky, Little's And while we counted down these from we saved one state for you where to be murdered by a serial killer. 1. Alaska - Population: Alaska doesn't have the highest population, being the one where you are most likely to be the state accounted for 64 serial killings, which 7 in 100,000 chance of becoming a serial killer rate and about the same chances as dying from The worst serial killer in Alaskan history a truly monstrous killer who eleven-year killing spree from 1971 to 1983. This man's Anchorage Atrocities were He sometimes took his young, female victims out Even on this list of depraved monsters, Hansen's Now check out "Worst Serial Killers That