Grab yourself a good quality brush and Work safer. Work smarter. -- your projects you make with a finish. But be complicated. Let's look at the basics projects may not require any finish at to applying a finish to shop projects. A work benches. Of course if you have a lot to show off a beautiful workspace, then fixtures. I like to paint some of my shop make me happy and brighten up my mood. strongest, most durable, most practical, long-term durability you want, go with houses for a reason, because they're conditions. Plus the choice of colors is drawback to paint is that it hides the show, that tends to make some people examples of painted furniture, and it option. But for this video I'm only going There are two main reasons to apply finishes help to protect wood from and UV damage from sunlight. Secondly, a very rewarding to watch the color and Plus a nicely finished piece is very what type of finish you use. It's usually start with a 120 grit sandpaper move up to a 220 grit sandpaper and I to sand to any finer grit because the from the finish that you apply after sawdust from your project. Dust particles vacuum off the surfaces then wipe them lint-free cloth like an old t-shirt. I spirits or paint Center and this will wood or any dried glue you may have of what the wood will look like once on sanding watch this basic video over hardware store it's easy to be of ways you could finish wood. There are In this video I'm only going to discuss hobbyists might want to use. There are finish. One that sticks to the surface of includes polyurethane, lacquer, and other that penetrates into the grain of the general, a layered finish will offer a can look a little artificial or in some on the other hand, are kind of earthier. but they don't offer nearly as much most popular finish today. The biggest consuming to apply. To get a good finish which realistically might take three is different than painting. The goal is creating streaks or leaving behind air finish into a separate container to use This will help prevent contaminating conditioning my brush and dipping it in Dip the brush into the finish all the as much as it can. Lightly press the tip that might drip. A good quality brush at one edge of the wood and try to apply entire length of the board, pressing down the end, letting it release the finish the entire way. Fill the brush up again and apply stroke. Mostly avoid brushing back and Use long steady strokes trying to let brush slowly and don't stop to take a completely covered. If you find that skip it. Just leave it for the next coat. it look worse. Also it's a good idea to surfaces of a project, then finish up the can to see how much time you need to hours or more for an oil-based water-based. Dry times will also differ each coat is dry it should be lightly any dust nibs and help smooth the trying to get every inch perfectly will adhere just fine to the previous will give the finish a all of the sanding dust before applying applying the final coat to avoid brush quality brush. You can buy oil or protection to wood and each has its own Water-based poly is a lot easier to use. with just soap and water. To clean up spirits. Water-based poly dries a lot need to apply more coats. Usually three poly will need four or even more coats. two types is how they look on wood. I because it gives the wood a warmer find very pleasing. Water-based poly is that it looks like a plastic coating on called wipe-on poly which is just manufacturer has thinned down with mineral own if you like. It's easy to apply, just wood. Wipe-on poly finish can look really brushed on finish. Of course you'll for good results. If you've watched my that my favorite finish to use is a incredibly fast. With lacquer you can hours. Even faster for small projects. buy at a store is finished with lacquer. production environments it's always sprayed more about HVLP spraying options available for hobbyists and brushing lacquer. Apply it using the described for polyurethane. The only faster and definitely, definitely don't so quickly that it can gum up if you don't try to fix it, just get it in the so that you can look across the surface lot. The best part about lacquer is that Rather than sitting on top of each other, and this combination of fast drying and up lots of coats of lacquer in a very clean your brushes but I don't clean the to just wrap the brush in a paper towel and just put it in a plastic bag. I like applying the final coat of lacquer this drips and make the top coat very smooth. can is my go-to finish. It's easy to apply, motion being careful not to get too drips or runs. For small projects spray finish. You don't need any brushes or technique for getting a great spray here. After the lacquer has fully cured the topcoat. To me this is what separates that is dust nibs or other imperfections. I an easy satin finish. From that I lightly or a gray synthetic scrubbing pad. If you a super high-gloss finish using finer that's a topic for another video. I smoothing because I like the look and buy satin lacquer but you'll still need it to have that great tactile feel. Gloss can be more expensive than other Secondly, lacquer has a very strong order use a respirator rated for organic people complain about the look of artificial. I don't share that opinion at pieces. When you want a beautiful finish really shows off the wood, an oil finish easiest finish to apply. But like I offer much protection to wood it would table or a desk that's subjected to a good option for decorative pieces say finishes are arguably the most natural finish wood. There are basically two Linseed oil. lacquer or polyurethane that builds up is easy you just pour some on a rag or in. Let it sit for five to ten minutes oil I'd like to let it dry a couple of and apply a second coat. I've never seen than two. Let it dry overnight and you're Tung oil on the other hand can take days. as a linseed oil but let it dry 24 hours coat. Usually you'll need to apply four that it offers more water resistance choice for say an end table that doesn't resistance is your main concern why use poly or lacquer. A third alternative oil and it it's actually a blend of think it tries to be the best of both pretty good job. But as you might expect pure oil finish and it doesn't offer the lot of people apply a coat of straight for added protection. For the most part chore and for small projects you can't lacquer. Well there are lots of other types of wax and there are tons of different this video has been helpful and is to subscribe to Woodworking for Mere found it useful. Thanks for watching