Alexander the Great is one of the A warrior king whose bravado and brilliant Greece to the ends of the world by the age of the soldiers of his army and in particular the hammer and anvil strikes. Most of the time as they thunder into battle. However such a disservice. Today let us dive deeper a big thanks to the great courses they offer subscription-based on-demand lecture renowned universities and specialists from places get unlimited access to a huge library of history to science math and literature their history playlist is quite expensive with history on daily life in the past to enrich 13 on being a greek soldier and sailor for me this allows me to swap from video series as a podcast while going about my daily offering a free trial which you can start by or visiting the great courses plus dot com you take a look at what they have to offer and Our story begins with the Geographically speaking it is an area with two fed by three principle rivers and the rugged, These conditions led to the development of many languages, cultures, and religious traditions. their own kings. Thus the land was naturally The lowlands were perhaps the easiest to tame kingdom would be planted. Legends tell of how the the early archaic period under the leadership lineage to Argos. Unfortunately little can be said only around the mid 6th century BC that things When we pick up the narrative at was already an established Kingdom For centuries its rulers had governed over trade, and military relations with the However the status quo would be In 513 BC the invaders launched significant Thracians and Scythians, forging the province of spared this conquest after giving earth and water in the aftermath of the Ionian Revolt. Shortly the early 5th century BC. During these conflicts, the Achaemenids, fighting primarily as mounted Yet while the Macedonians provided men, food, entirely loyal. King Alexander the 1st the Greek allies supplies and information. at the end of the wars through the Balkans, and destroyed their column on the march. now rule over an independent kingdom. His reign of the realm, began reforms to model his court In response the southern city-states Greeks" and allowed the monarch to actually When Greek turned on Greek Macedon profited greatly by selling raw the worst of the bloodshed. King Archelaus the by implementing many internal reforms with an eye building new roads and strongholds as well He also established a new capital at Pella where poets and artists to his court. Yet the involving assassinations, revolts, and be murdered on a hunt by one of his companions Some progress was made by kings like Amyntas most of the 4th century BC adrift in a sea It's into this time of crisis that Philip the young Macedonian heir had been held as then by the Thebans. He would learn much from close to the commanders Epaminondas, Pammenes developments in Greek political and military military forces like the Sacred Band and using superior opponents would prove quite influential. When Philip returned home in 364 BC, his brother, govern. It appears that this early opportunity with some of his ideas. However this testing phase thrust upon Macedon's heir following a disastrous of his army. The realm was now crippled, easy Yet the 23 year old ruler was up to the a bold plan of reform to raise his country from This primarily involved modernizing the military No longer would Macedonians fight as a mere To do so, reforms to recruitment were implemented Soldiers now drew their salary from the crown, which increased their overall unity. The actual with the innovation of new sarissa pikemen who than their hoplite counterparts. By their and skirmishing elements that worked together of this newly built juggernaut would be the king take a closer look at this leading unit which We are told that at the beginning of Philip's had not materialized out of thin air. Rather they king. This group represented an important social personal relations bound a ruler to his subjects. feasted with the ruler in symposia, advised and accompanied him into battle as a bodyguard. It seems that Alexander the 1st had been the as horsemen in a manner similar to the Achaemenid he called upon his own nobles from across Macedon by organizing regionally into squadrons from and Apollonia before uniting with These troopers were heavy cavalrymen. Let us now the list would be their steed. These were of terrain of Macedon produced horses of hearty stock Their abilities were further enhanced by The royal stables were particularly renowned for their specimens which won several riding Companions typically owned their own horses own stables and employ their own attendants. be granted money from the crown upon enrollment The horse's back would be covered in a simple Remember that the adoption of the stirrup was expected to grip the horse with their thighs A horse might also be adorned with such as animal pelts from lions or leopards Most Macedonian cavalrymen wore a open toed army boots. Companions likely stood out We know for instance that some wealthy and later carried purple cloaks captured from the more practical level though the companions stood cuirass for extra protection though this might be were also added. Early on these would have been would later be replaced by the superior Boeotian hammered over a mould, which greatly increased helped cushion and deflect blows from above while who maintained excellent vision and hearing. this, speed would be the riders only defense as no is given by our sources but it seems that this The primary offensive tool for a Companion was made from cornel wood prized for its elasticity iron spear head. The spear could be used one An additional strap helped keep the weapon under a soldier would use either the dual edged Xiphos When it comes to training, the Companion Cavalry the rest of the army. This was achieved through with a heavy focus on discipline. Frequent reviews Any insubordination was not tolerated and would be of how a man who abandoned a march to drop into removing his kit whilst ordered to remain under Positive reinforcement was also employed through for good deeds. These helped encourage healthy pull off daring feats in battle in the hopes In addition to these army-wide practices, the as riders. Much of this involved learning to various conditions. For most Greek cavalry this javelins, and closing the distance at a moderate They were true shock cavalry who skipped over the at full speed. Such an attack would have been and the couched lance. Companions therefore would Unfortunately the secrets to their In battle, the Companion Cavalry were Their preferred tactic was that of the hammer the frontline pikemen pinning the enemy in place The assault was typically This leveraged the herd mentality of the horses nimbly across the battlefield, exploiting gaps They would first prove their worth in the early the threats in his immediate vicinity. A resurgent and Athenians before confronting the Illyrians who At the Battle of Erigon Valley, the Macedonian flank which resulted in a decisive victory. in the affairs of Thessaly in the 350s BC and At the battle of Crocus field, the Companions a brutal hammer and anvil that saw 6,000 of Philip then used his army to consolidate his attention to Greece. This campaign climaxed Traditional narratives hypothesize that it is here to defeat the Sacred Band of Thebes. However, of cavalry and posited that the move was achieved ended with a Macedonian victory which placed The king was now in control of a huge his disposal. These would be turned the Achaemenid Persian Empire. Clearly Philip in the days ahead and tripled their strength from before he could launch this ambitious campaign, in 336 BC. His 20 year old son, Alexander one to lead the charge against the Persians. The The unexpected death of Philip shook the Aegean yoke. Thebes, Athens, Thessaly, and the northern the new king would meet the crisis head moved first to eliminate rivals to the throne The Macedonians outmaneuvered the Thessalian prompting their surrender. Next he with the speed and force of his advance. The Macedonians then rode Getae, and Illyrians in a whirlwind campaign. The shock tactics to win several victories pacified the north, the southern cities Alexander descended upon them with a vengeful and selling the survivors into slavery. The brutal who laid down their arms. Alexander had finally could finally pick up where his father had left BC, Alexander led a coalition force of some 35,000 We are told by Diodorus Siculus that under the overall command of while 1500 of their brethren remained behind under The advanced group was divided into 8 squadrons Seven of the units numbered 200 strong was maintained at a double strength of 400. was commanded by Black Cleitus, son of Dropidas, of the Macedonian cavalry. It was their duty They would do so on multiple occasions example at the Battle of Granicus, it was without hesitation to flank the Persians. They At one point Alexander himself was struck and of commander Cleitus who dismembered his Persian main body of the infantry to advance which soon were light, these fell disproportionately on In their honor, Alexander would order A year and a half later when the Macedonians next the Companions who charged first across the river right, before twisting itself inwards, gutting the Alexander cut his way to within a spear's throw fled. Though the Achaemenid ruler's retreat may which fell into a rout as news spread. In the just the Persian camp but also their western Yet Alexander was not sated with these conquests where he would be met once more by King Darius at echeloned formation and pushed right to draw the their flank. A fierce cavalry fight developed on the opportune moment, with the Persian chariot Alexander reformed his Companions into a massive from the front with supporting infantry and this spearhead was plunged directly into the Persian Kinsmen heavy cavalry, Apple Bearers, could withstand the pressure as the eastern ranks Alexander and his companions initially gave rescue the beleaguered Macedonian left. As the of fleeing Persians which resulted in some of Some 60 companions fell while Hephaistion and the enemy right completely dissolved Victory opened the road to Mesopotamia as Darius took the great cities of Babylon, Susa, and praise, spoils, and rest. In addition their ranks This was a great boon to the Companions who shock troopers. Now their numbers exceeded To deal with this expansion it seems that each of which was commanded by a lochargos chosen forces would prove invaluable in the months However Alexander would again be denied his prize by the Bactrian Satrap Bessus. Undeterred the a campaign which would unfurl into a grand tour Alexander increasingly adopted eastern traditions, caused significant friction within the Macedonian Philotas son of Parmenion, supreme was executed on suspicion of his involvement. A into two hipparchies, each of which Yet as the nature of the there would be further reorganizations was swelled by new reinforcements and such that their numbers rose to an estimated 3600 8 hipparchies whose commanders were now chosen by These more flexible squadrons were often detached However they would famously regroup during of the Hydaspes in 326 BC. Here the Companions up position on the right flank. In a lightning a devastating blow. Enemy reinforcements pulled salvage the situation but were also cut to pieces infantry and elephants too became involved as the actions of Alexander's campaigns. Eventually an encirclement of the enemy army. The hammer and Alexander wished to continue fighting to the ends march any further upon reaching the Hyphasis are hardly ever given but they must have and especially disease. It seems that as their eight hipparchies were reduced march through the Gedrosian desert upon leaving By the time the Macedonians returned to Persepolis Alexander sought to infuse them with renewed forces to his ranks. For instance 15,000 Persians Companions were now joined by oriental riders grumbling from his countrymen, a new 5th hipparchy save for a few notable Iranians. It was to be chiliarchy and commanded by none other than enough and mutinied once more at Opis. Eventually were dismissed or discharged. Of those who went there were some 1500 cavalry, most of which we Soon Alexander would begin preparations for new, cut short when he fell ill and died unexpectedly ancient sources, when Alexander's companions asked he reportedly answered "to the strongest". as the vast realm was split between Successors who individuals who had previously served as officers the status of kings. History however is less such as the Companion cavalry which become lost force might have faded away, its memory would of this heavy cavalry force which conquered We hope you've appreciated this deep Cavalry. A huge thanks is owed to our supporters writers, and artists who made this video friend from the channel Deuratus who did the Definitely check out his channel for more as always let us know what units of history you