Today, we're doing bagging only, so I am not try and always make a comeback right at the end. been requesting because I've done a lot of bagging detail how to do all the bagging stuff, except plus, like, the Cheese Land short, the Riverside bagging tracks. I'm gonna be just showing how so first thing you always want to do is go for track knowledge. So, on every single track, you the shortcuts are, how best to take the shortcuts, to be because of how powerful the shortcuts are. I will not allow myself to be too far behind, but far behind, and it's fine because of how, uh, on this track are mostly at the start of the and then I'm gonna save this golden mushroom for first place using this, or not necessarily first so I'm gonna start my golden here. If I didn't which is where the first shortcut is. But now, And look at that, we're in second place. [laughs] gonna get out of there, hopefully no more red place, I could dodge it thanks to my bagging, but [laughs] Alright, there's another win in the shame bagging from first place because I I wouldn't normally bag. I don't even know not for a while. I might have put myself too Um, okay, these items are in a different place I suck. So I don't need to take shortcuts at lap a shortcut on the left here, so basically two not big shortcuts though, so you cannot rely on chain items this whole time. I'm gonna have to lap three, so we're just getting these coins up. bullet takes the second shortcut, sorry, the first gonna be the best spot to use it just because turbos that I don't think using a bullet is even I only, I'm only smuggling one mushroom, Oh, right, I forgot if you take that shortcut, it's not that big of a shortcut. Um, Let's just stop people from approaching Oh, only one item, a bomb? Come on. In sixth place Please give me a mushroom. Mushroom. [laughs] I, I don't know if that was worth it. Having Okay, that person ran into the other The blooper, the blooper is it worked, it worked. I just, I was That was a disaster. Okay, we're gonna pause win this race, I've never lost on Waluigi not good lines. Oh, I almost hit the fireball. And let's go for shroomless cut here. I [Music] Alright, very nice, very nice, get a coin. Oh, I thought I would get two items, I think that'll get him. Yep, there's pretty but not really, because there's only I could throw this again, honestly. they don't control where they land. Okay, somehow we're, like, almost at 10 I rely on front running so much on this track I just use my coin item over and Another one? Get to the boost panel, yes! Let's Oh, they're right there. I think they don't Handling on this thing is not good enough. Holy! Oh, I didn't even see the blue shell on the What a lucky win. Honestly, I, I didn't deserve on Waluigi Stadium. I guess, I was just too good. So, on Riverside Park, uh, you just go watch my just kidding. So, uh, what you do is you try to of lap three, because there's a whole bunch of really far behind here because of how amazing hopefully, there will be a higher chance of the shock. But even if you don't dodge the shock, you. Oh, I have the shock! Okay, sweet. Um, this till lap three. I'm gonna use a golden but, uh, I kind of need to make a push for the Uh, okay, that's fine, that's fine. I still this out of me, but this is so good. I'm, for Riverside Park, this counts as close, so lower the chance that a boo takes my shock because Okay, okay, here we go, here we go. Stop the shock. Now I can take the shortcuts and nobody Jeez, the wall. Okay, okay, good, it didn't steal so I pretty much executed the strategy perfectly. shock that whole time, but I knew that that was blessed right now with these bagging tracks. first place and, and being forced to bag is Uh, but this is such a great bagging track number one most time-saving shortcut, aka So, we're gonna get mushrooms here. Okay, that's good. And we're just gonna do this or it will count you out of bounds. But, uh, uh, this is like the entire strategy to make a at the front of the mini map right now. They can't it all three laps, like, I'm about to catch up I'm in sixth! Do you see how much I waited need to hope for no shock. Oh, okay, this is and there's no guarantee I get more mushrooms my star and hope no one shocks. But I'm gonna the shortcut. That way, I increase the chances of Yes, triple mushrooms. Okay, didn't get hit. Mushroom right here. Oh, Wait, first place is gone. What happened? this is fine. This is fine. [laughs] Oh, this believe this. We just got another bagging track. number of bagging tracks in this game is, like, very lucky that a lot of the great bagging tracks gonna wait here. On Mushroom Gorge, it's really isn't straightforward easy, you have to learn how it's just gap jump. Like, I'm in fourth already. fourth. Fifth, okay, I need to get three coins Oh, I'm going this way. It's fine, too. There well. Don't want a star in my first slot because Oh, geez, geez. I didn't get pushed Oh, bad line, bad line. Okay, I have a star now. I'm gonna try to dodge as many red shells That was so scary. [Music] Oh, I only got one if no one throws red shells at me, I win. I didn't Okay, I can't take the gap jump. You have to Third place did a really good thing, throwing a jump on lap three. Oh, we have a Yoshi on Yoshi on so I cannot believe we, again, we got, uh, of the strongest bagging tracks in the game, the like, Cheese Land and Dry Dry Desert are like, this is still one of the best bagging shortcuts. All right, so, uh, let's, uh, see what 30 seconds hasn't passed yet. You can't get, like, well, 30 seconds has passed now, so we have a Uh, I just, if someone builds a definitive lead, that that happens before I throw it. Okay, so I'm really, really far behind on this track, and too far behind on lap three because lap three, and most of your comeback is gonna be, um, so I'll here, this item set, after you get this item set, next to me, which I'm not taking right now. You the reason I'm using it now is so that it drops that's embarrassing. Uh, so it's not gonna drop me to get me into a decent spot on lap three. You I look at everyone's red shell. They don't with a good item. Please, good item. Yes, Oh, I couldn't chain. Okay, but it's okay. I still and I get to take every shortcut at the Oh, I'm not getting first! Okay, okay, barely, been the front runner, actually, uh, but there you dodge it, if you want to get first bagging, Oh, just came back from the bathroom just in get some coins. This section is very narrow, a straight line. It's extremely easy to get focusing on. Oh, why'd you go that way? The um, avoiding getting hit there and, uh, taking the give me the item. Quick, quick. Okay, All right, so we're gonna take Okay, making a bit of a comeback. Chaining item? Yes, okay. And if I'm in the use a star here, but right now, I should be fine. What happened to you? All right, so I'm just no guarantee you get better than these, and So that's another thing with bagging. You when not to hold your items, and it really item is gonna be and how valuable this yet because it's gonna be more valuable Take you out uh couldn't get them. I don't want Oh green shell. Hey, what are we doing see which way everyone else is taking. Okay, I I have one more chance at a mushroom. [Music] Oh, I gotta slow down. I have to. Can't Ah, this is really bad. Okay, okay, this A few other people probably come on. Oh, it broke on Oh, that Petey Piranha was thick. There's one very which is how are you gonna get your coins. I the beginning is take the top path. Actually, I be on the right cycle anymore. Oh, no, no, we're so you can get a bunch of coins right here because track. And then generally, if you want to dodge many people up here. Okay, well, they trapped the Okay, and we have more coins right here. [Music] Don't hit me! I'm gonna use this mushroom, for when I feel threatened by items or, uh, I just Okay, this is good. We're kind of coming back. you can take thanks to bagging, and so you have to comeback entirely on lap three. It just doesn't got destroyed, and I'm in second place with four Okay, um, I'm gonna hold on to probably get in second place. All right. First place, what free for me. They just gave first place to potentially get red shell protection. bana-- uh a mushroom can kind of protect you just All right, we won. [laughs] How far that is way too far. I'm not going backwards for there is a bullet extension. It's very Um, I was considering making a resource for, um, have not gotten around to it yet. But for now, then you pretty much just, like, watch YouTube did. There was this Japanese video. Uh, there's it's just like all bullet extensions. There we get the bullet here when I try to go for the Oh, dude, I hit myself. Okay, so when you to get a second item behind your bullet before And the reason you do that is so that because the item into a top position. So use the bullet All right, and it takes you around this curve. it lasts so gosh darn long [laughs] and I just I'm too far forward to get another bullet. I could rely on on this track. You, uh, you can front run but that shortcut, like, you having a mushroom bullet extension is also, like, if all you have what, like, what placement did I get this in? ironic. [laughs] I cannot believe this. This is I was gonna do so poorly, and then Okay, uh, these items are not good enough, Yeah, okay, that was crazy, but that was a lot of fun too. Coconut Mall is another like, it kind of works just because this game is So, uh, first thing we're gonna do, of I need to focus on getting, uh, getting some on this track. I'm gonna wait here. I'm just gonna All right, and so that mall shortcut is another shortcut with the glider, but I should have gone up for the coins. That was my huh. So I'm gonna keep getting coins here. I'm mushrooms, okay, well, I don't need this many. but it's okay we're at 10 coins. We're actually Okay, still in ninth place, so I figured I can get all right, that's fine I guess. I'm These 10 coins are very important to preserve. There's the second shortcut, not a really big the mushroom here would be really stupid to chain what? Oh, and I lost my fire flower. [laughs] It's got Coconut Malled. Come Okay, okay, fourth place is pretty good. I'm Plains. I know you can, but it's really tricky. So more spot you can get two items, and that's it. and so it can make bagging a bit risky if you how far out of the way these items are. Like, and the same goes for the other item set. Like, giant shortcut, like the biggest shortcut on um, the first set of items. So I am just just gonna keep getting coins and No, no, okay, I'll just use it. I messed up that here. I usually try to front-run this track, That's ridiculous. Okay, okay, I am waiting around I'm just gonna keep bagging, and I'm gonna and probably gonna avoid the next All right, here we go, here we go, we're getting don't take the other item and do this. Oh no, I win. Oh no, they had mushrooms too. Oh, okay, I on this track, but you don't get that many items, management. Toad Circuit is one of those tracks it's just so simple, it's so wide, and it's the track. I think you spend most of this track Okay, so what we're gonna do first is grab coins. after them. You, you actually can't get too while there is a giant shortcut at the end, there shortcut at the beginning of the track. So there, though. So if you end up really far behind, you do and you can't just kind of, like, stay with the fire. Okay, so I actually don't want only lap two, and, uh, it's so important to rely I'm just gonna stay back a little bit more. All right, more of these. You know what, I'm gonna Okay, now I have to start making this comeback. items are not good. Oh, I thought I had a star the items come out on lap three, so I'm gonna Okay, this could actually be okay. Okay, we got second place. Just dodge and make your comeback on lap three. time today we've had Cheese Land on Nooo! On the bright side, you can kind of bag but what we do have is chaos, chaos So you can see from the minimap right now, I'm the pack. I'm not trying to get super far behind on this track. But if I fall further behind, I more separately. But because I'm still very close Nice items. Uh geez [laughs] Okay, um, I think I but the pack is so close that pulling and given that I'm in last place, nobody So after this boost panel, I'm just so the bullet can take the red path without being it passes so many people. Oh, geez, okay. I don't know if I had to use this yet, but, if you're, if you're already this far up, Kind of look back more. Geez, okay, I guess I'm still bagging. Like, coming up. What? Okay, I thought that was my own we go. There's actually, I could make up a few Oh, two people got hit, that's perfect, and this Sweet Canyon has a giant ending shortcut, and So it's kind of similar to Toad Circuit, but not so I'm gonna try and take advantage of the ending it's not an insane bagging track, but there is track and, uh, around, like, this section and, honestly. So, oh, I forgot to chain items, uh, I'm just going to stay in the back here and, Oh, this person didn't even go for double item extension on this track, but it overlaps with the oh everything's right here. I didn't dodge though. That's so lucky. [laughs] I'm I think I'll just, like, use this if a red shell or I can bullet through the shortcut. all the way to first place, I'm going if I hold it too long, the Boo can steal it. You know what, I'm just gonna use it when I could Someone did exactly what I said I was gonna do. I Because you're kind of dodging a cannon anyway. even if I used it, it wouldn't get me that much. I'm just gonna use it as defense, or, like, if I'll just win with it. But, like, this is... This stay away. Yup, I got-- I have a bullet in first. I don't think I've done this before. I've got the bullet to first. Let's not even I'll use this to beat them. [laughs] Oh, that was so fun! I love smuggling good items