Professor Amy what's coming up? on Wednesday I'm going to give and in preparation for that I bookstore, any one, out, what you see, to, called to, and here's a What isn't there? and I'll talk a little bit Wednesday. please try to read at least to chapter division in The Human track to finish it--it's 361 And so, next Monday, I will give my second lecture And I will talk about bit on Wednesday, say about censorship does so that's what's coming up. I hope you all thought read this novel. When I gave that lecture, gains a certain credence, culture, it requires more and fresh story out of it. where that set of conventions is way, to be transcended in a new So, one thing that I want to does it transcend the genre? the certain dramas and expect from a novel about In this sense, embedded in those kinds of kind of risk here. knows that this is a topic of as an artist because he's territory. also, when a genre reaches a writers tend to change the I didn't say this when we Meridian, but I think that kind of change of subject. and we want to ask what it's Before I go in to my meditation I just want to call your that does relate back to and that's its status This novel places itself with markers at the very opening. the summer of the Monica the summer when Viagra takes Those are very contemporary Now, think back to the way its historical markers. It's the father talking about He says, &quot;Night of your birth, God, how the stars did fall.&quot; What he's talking about is the that mark the night of the kid's For all that McCarthy is historical detail of the 1830s, historical markers that seem So, contrast the stars falling meteor shower, that looks like a cosmic Contrast that with the debased historical markers that Viagra, the Monica Lewinsky You want to ask yourself, writer invoking? that if you press on the markers you will find something more contemporary trivia, equally universal, in this novel, little details of history. history is the history of things are indicative. desire and its relationship to writing in this novel in my but as you go on I would like functions as a set of contexts you. identity. the form of the Identity Plot? it does, and it does so in a Remember how I mentioned that produced by the individual's the way that's vexed. Identity Plot if the protagonist whatever categorizable identity good. The tension comes from feeling identification would be all kinds of attendant There are all kinds of tensions not an easy identification, explicitly in this novel on page about being at Howard and along with that, a &quot;nigger&quot; for the first time. Especially when he began something of the nigger about even to the kids in the dorm clothes, and money in their and in the summertime didn't home, but went to camp, the Jersey sticks, rode horses and played tennis What the hell was a cotillion? What were these kids talking He was among the very lightest freshman class, tea-colored roommate, blackest, most benighted field didn't. arrived. Washington, and so in early dead serving dinner on the that was pulling out of 30^(th) for Wilmington, funeral, he told his mother he college. in this little set of scenes in D.C., asked by his family to identify black middle class, by his own difference from that He feels like a black field field hand, &quot;for all they knew get it in very abstract terms. the Ur of we, another place that's just like the substitute for Identity Plot is the problem of Here is Coleman laying out and so what he's going to favor again on 108, subtlety of being Silky Silk. in a very short amount of form, narrative dynamic--of the On 144, you get another version personalized to his family. identity and what Coleman thinks This is after we get the his ancestors, the first to pass as white or to in to which he was born: people&quot; was another way they, Ancestor worship, Honoring the past was one thing. worship was something else. imprisonment. 144, this vision of it, and imprisonment in that family, thinking, a radical un-freedom. identity, radically individual, that you feel from the various join. identity that are imagined here, with scholarly ways of thinking time. is this radical individual tracing in the last few minutes. constantly changing performance, You see it, again, Howard on 109, words that Roth chooses here, &quot;He could play his skin however he chose.&quot; wanted.&quot; is a great devotee of communicate to his children, Shakespearian middle names, interaction he has with them, English language will somehow are, their dignity and their power. transforms it. of drama, but it's about playing vocation, &quot;color himself just as He's like a painter, so this is identity as There are many instances of On page 115,116, description of Steena's dance I'm going to just read a little All at once, seemingly prompted only by she began what Coleman liked to slithery dance ever performed by little more than a year in New She could have raised Gershwin dance, and with the way she sang prompted by a colored trumpet torch song. plain as day, whiteness, that big, &quot;Someday he'll come along, and he'll be big and strong, The language was ordinary the most innocent first-grade but when the record was over, her face, half meaning, to cover her shame. concentrated in to that tiny, unpacked by a critic by the name He does a whole history, of how Artie Shaw and various and used black musicians in and how this very dance, here, we're told, her whiteness, a music that is radically black and Jewish. this passage we get identity as absolute performance and history of American jazz stands It's the very difference pure whiteness of Steena's body provocative to Coleman, the context of hybridity. The father's obsession with though, has taught Coleman to Do you remember this little This is on page 93 when Coleman described to us exactly how speak. Growing up they never They didn't even say, They said, &quot;See the Doberman. See the terrier.&quot; classifications. naming precisely.&quot; imbuing them with the most elite tradition, he is also teaching them classification and categorizing. something quite different, little passing moment on 107, This is talking about his Shakespeare's plays, floppy leather binding that, always reminded him of a cocker The son felt his father's the grandeur of both his rise the grandeur that as a college month.--[And then it quotes from The cocker spaniel: Why? little boy thinks of when he It's a moment when being categorize causes him to see the precision, in very demeaning terms, getting quite the precise word I So that, instead of grandeur, the source for the names of And the way the child's the ordinary, gives us Coleman, everyday life, as a grand play. Doc Chizner furthers this lesson in this very crucial that I'm going to talk more as white or Jewish for the first And that's when he's boxing for &quot;If nothing comes up,&quot; 98] You're neither one thing or the You're Silky Silk. That's the deal.&quot; the other. This takes the question of Are you not?--it negates it: another, but then reinstates it you're Silky Silk. yourself. transgressing use of precision spaniel metaphor in the child's and he shows Coleman how to America, living his race in You are Silky Silk. You're a proper name, a person. There is a third way of and that, of course, That, too, is present in this The body is relentlessly picked up on that. The very matter and specificity this novel, and so I want to This is in that wonderful scene So, we get a whole description that Nathan sees in it, shirtless on this hot summer no longer talking about the This is 21. shoulders, arms and chest of a attractive, to be sure, but nothing that hand, someone who had seemed to have competitor at sports rather than And all of this had previously because he was always shirted, been so drastically consumed by What you see there is the will find out to be true about that he was a cunning and wily overpowering one, virile, nothing that had gotten out of Coleman very much still has He is still the maker of himself to the world in a But then we go on, we see that perhaps tell us Rather than the body revealing certain kinds of truth, other kinds of truth--we see produce that knowledge. was the small, at the top of his right arm just the words &quot;U.S. hooklike arms of a shadowy the hypotenuse of the deltoid a tiny symbol if one were circumstances of the other of that blizzard of details a human biography, our understanding of people must slightly wrong. shirtless is the very sign that of complete way. his body, that he was in the little bit about, but for Nathan it is the mark between persons, that are not accessible, fellow's life. In this moment Nathan a sign that can be projected I would suggest to you that we this until quite a bit later in but I think this is the first in Coleman revealing his body, possibilities of that body as a So, he is no longer, entirely &quot;in hand&quot; anymore. gotten out of hand, certainly has. he has now become a blank Certainly, up until this moment what's most on the surface of the victim of rumor, completely out of hand, erroneous readings of his words. his control, himself as a Here Nathan is invited into it, than the rumormongers who and in the town. So, the body is not going to be Speech, as I've noted, revelation, but it can be that. we see an example of that when touches off what will be some of passages in the novel. having berated Coleman and authoritative, anything against Lester Farley has offended him and enraged target of Coleman's rage. &quot;I never again want to hear yours or see your smug, the question becomes why--and we page--why &quot;white,&quot; the insult that he hurls at And formally, bit of an interlude here about rage, launch into the tale of and we learn for the first time from, passing has been, abandon his family of birth. revealing, but only in those Coleman's control. &quot;lily-white&quot; is inspired by his He is out of control, and of course, brother, similar moment of anger, has told his mother that he is permanently from the family in Walt says, &quot;Don't ever show again.&quot; language, and, Nelson Primus and for us, that there is a mystery here to And then we get the telling of So, from that little word, and I would just note, that this is quite a contrast On 38 and 39, Coleman is very surprised that the identifying marks of her own Delphine Roux--though her name the oracular, the secret--Delphine is someone The very material of her of her letters, to be read, even tried to conceal it. her lack of complexity as a despicableness is summed up in herself, himself in moments when he is become, own representation of himself, among other representers Delphine, other people). Secrecy, what identity means in this this crucial passage on page For me, this is where we learn this novel. So, he says he wants to be in Pitt coach--with Ray Robinson. It wasn't just that [This It wasn't just that Coleman than when he'd boxed on the Pythias. not even name made him want to dared before, than merely win. didn't know he was colored? really was was entirely his He did love secrets, what was going on in your head, think, with no way of anybody's All the other kids were always but that wasn't where the power The power and the pleasure were in being counter-confessional counter-puncher, having to tell him and without That's why he liked shadow bag, for the secrecy of And I'm going to skip down a He talks about concentrating, by the concentration, concentration on the one thing Whatever is to be He could do that in biology, and he could do it in boxing, external make any difference; internal. That little example right biology, on a biology exam he thing, in the dash, but why choose that example? Why not chemistry? it's Roth's craft coming Roth chose that because what overcome biology. parents are, of who their That biology, is what he takes hold of and It becomes his secret. not as an academic subject, Boxing is the sport of thinking ahead, watching how slow the punch is: All the answers that you you kept to yourself, out, you let it out through For all Coleman's training in father, his mode of revelation, is not verbal. as a physical performance, performance. That term being--the pleasure and the counter-confessional in the same in not telling--this is quite a The history of Roth's writing collection, Goodbye, through the many, decades, which I'm going to talk a is defined by the confessional works.So, drawing on his own life in his Zuckerman track his biography in And, in this novel, Philip Roth went through lives up in the Berkshires and and very productive writing So, in this novel already, basic facts knows that Roth confessional, One question we might want to counter-confessional the way the way that you can be a and what would it mean to be Why does it matter? And then, why does it matter, track his life? for anyone who thinks about and I will get more to it in my Stain next Monday, about. again, on that rhetorical &quot;Was it because the pit coach Could it be because who he secret?&quot; that last question. entirely his secret.&quot; &quot;who he really was&quot; as a then we'll see it as that being But you can read it, a different way. secret.&quot; really was was &quot;his secret,&quot; identity? that hidden box. fill it in. even, that it can be known. the anchor on his arm, reminds Nathan of how little other fellow. other-ness to you means that fundamentally hidden about them, difference between one This returns the meditation humanist version of what It's simply private Private consciousness is what and then, radiating out from all the things that one can do which then encompasses these the novel rehearses, endorses, plays with, We have a private consciousness. This is something that Coleman and it's a phrase that Roth decide to be done with the deciding to decide not to be You have the power to form your You have the power to make your performance. consciousness does for you, things, or suggest them just briefly in one sense by following the and in the other sense by the novel. pure difference, of Faunia with the cows, this is Nathan reflecting on there. Coleman is not primarily a man and he has just stood in Faunia milk the cows. It was enough to be able people who had nothing all the while remembering how orgasmic essence everything irreconcilable, produced all the power. thrill of leading a double And what this passage, emphasize, is that Faunia is a a &quot;wordless illiterate,&quot; and with the vocabularies of two as well as his own native So, the very difference between of education and language, here it's that difference that desire. looking towards the other thing, the thing that you do not have, you: that's the definition of You can't have desire if you Desire is that force that's that is separate from you. is just that, just the engine of desire. for all the meditations on race, race as performance, race as biology, it's secret that gets to that in the novel. think Roth is transcending the He's taking the dramas of the and he's driving them to an to another subject matter. identity as secrecy pushes us desire and mortality, writing from beginning to end. identity is not also a subject beginning to end of his career. and I'll say more about that on shape of his career. later in his career these mortality take the upper hand. to do, just very quickly, another use of that word page. the rush of the world with a many people as possible to delusions. here, away from all agitating allurements, apart especially from one's own silence, plenitude as capital, increasing, chosen source of advantage and The trick is to find Hawthorne again, solitary mind with itself. sustenance in people like brilliant deceased. myself, as a reader have is whether Roth imagines that when he describes it that way, one to be rejected. I think that last sentence, sustenance in people like that I'm content with. yes, it's a withdrawal from Hawthorne as a person, become entangled. of a literary forebear as a allows this to be a productive one that Nathan will be drawn but yet one that the novel does It's when Coleman becomes for the person becomes this living that he is drawn out of his So, in a way, person that draws him out, encounters Coleman and his when he sees Coleman's body as the sign of all that you fellow. Coleman, that's when he comes communing with the brilliant of Coleman who will be very shortly. So, on Monday next I will talk desire and the literary, between life and novel. read.