Hi, this is Gary with MacMost.com. Today let's look at using Affinity Photo to MacMost is brought to you thanks to a great Go to MacMost.com/patreon. There you can read more about the Patreon Join us and get exclusive content and course So many times in the past I've shown you how I think Affinity Photo seems to be the popular the Mac so let's look at how to do it using I'm going to drag and drop an image from the There you could see there's me and a background. Let's cut me out of this and then do things Also just paste me into a different image. The basic idea is to select just me and not You have several tools for dealing with this First let's go use the Brush Selection tool I'm going to take that and I'm going to use Now up at the top here I've got a width button. So notice the circle here is a certain size. I can change that size and make it smaller I could also use the square bracket keys on So I can start selecting me by just clicking You could see how it's going to grab some We don't have to worry about it being perfect this in several different ways. Let's first just start by grabbing the general You could see it does a pretty good job. How good a job it does really depends on how So now we've selected a lot of things here. Let's refine it first by continuing to stick I'm going to use Command and Plus to zoom You could also do it with your trackpad. Now I could just move around here inside of aren't perfect. So let's go and shrink down the width of the much smaller. Now I can click and select more of an area I can fill in some of the spaces that it missed. In some cases maybe it grabbed a little too Let's do say this and say oops it grabbed I can hold the Option key down and then I You can do the same things by switching modes But holding the Option key works faster. So let me go over here and further refine I could keep adjusting the size for what I Grabbing pieces that I may have missed when So once we've done a little work adding and Tool. Click this Refine button here and it opens Now notice how everything that we haven't is its regular color. You can change that here using Preview. So that's the overlay preview. I can go to Black matte or White matte to solid color like that. I could go to black and white like that and I haven't selected transparent there. So you're going to switch between these because Now you have several settings for the Adjustment You have Matte, Foreground, and Background. Matte will try to make things a little bit So you can see here the selection isn't so Let's zoom in a little bit and go right here I release it will attempt to do a better job So you could use this to further refine things. Now if I switch the preview I get a better If I switch to background I can make something So I can kind of erase this. Maybe get rid of some of the extra stuff right Let's go back to Matte and you could also When you do that it's going to increase the Matte and grab more or less. You can always use Command Z to Undo things You can also adjust the Smoothness and it The Feather. Different adjustments work in different ways. It really depends on the image how well it's How many things like hair or fur or smooth So you're just going to keep playing with Maybe I'll use the background tool here to Things like that. Go to the Matte tool here and attempt to make Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. You really have to play with it. There's a reason why you have these tools because you constantly have to keep making I'm going to use the matte tool here and you specific case. Now, let's zoom back out and look at what So it looks pretty good. We can look at it in overlay here like that. We can look at it as a transparent image there. When we're satisfied with it we can choose Now we could just go and hit Apply and just We could do things with it like Copy and Paste. But we could also select to create a new layer. Let's do that. I'll do New Layer and hit Apply. So now we can go here and look at the layers. We can see we have two layers. The layer that we just cutout and the background. I can make the background visible again and The thing I like about this is if I make the still includes the subject. So it's just basically overlaying one on top Now we could do really cool things with it. For instance with this selected I could click the tools here and here just for changing So for instance I could increase the exposure just that and not the background. So we could hit Develop here to Accept those We could also add filters. So in this case instead of having it filter I'll go to Filters and Blur and I could just I could hit Apply and now the background is Let's Undo that and instead I could add an Click here and let's add an adjustment layer I'll adjust the exposure. I can change the exposure, say, for the background If I go into Layers I'll see that the exposure I can move up and have it applied to both. Or I can drag it into a layer and have it So now what if I just wanted to take this So I can select the layer here. I can simply copy it and let's open up another Just drag and drop to Affinity Photo the second So I have two tabs open. This one and this one. I can simply paste this layer in and there Let me switch to the Arrow tool and I could I could shrink it or enlarge it. I can, of course, add those effects and adjustments So it may make sense to add an adjustment You know increase the exposure of just the So I'm going to go into layers here and move is a little brighter. Work on that a little bit to get it to look Now once I have things like I want I can go as a new jpeg image to share. Let me show you just one more example. I'm going to take a piece of stock photography white background. I would be nice if that's transparent. Maybe I could use it in Keynote over a gradient So I could do the same thing here. I could use the Brush tool. Let's enlarge the circle quite a bit. I'm going to select the bear. I'm going to refine the area a little bit Go to Refine. Let's zoom in a bit. Now I could use the Matte tool here and it the background is so different than the foreground. So you could see I select this portion here The same thing here. Now I'll change this to a Mask here. What a mask will do is it will keep the same so that the rest of it isn't visible anymore. So it makes the background invisible. Then I could go to Layer, New Fill Layer and I could click on that and I can use one of for that. Let's move it behind the bear and now you you want. Or I could simply Copy this layer here and this image.