Out on the vast plains of the Kazakh steppe Covering an 18,500 square km stretch of wilderness, just another swathe of endless grassland. Yet this quiet exterior hides a sinister past. During the years of the Soviet Union, this get close enough witnessed blinding flashes, across the sky. This place's name was the Semipalatinsk Today, we know it as the most-nuked place Selected in 1947 by notorious NKVD head Lavrentiy first Soviet atom bomb, and the first air-tested Over the course of 40 years, a quarter of irradiating the empty landscape. In today's video, we're peeking inside and meeting the people still living with its Building a Bomb city of Semipalatinsk were going about their light. At the time, this wasn't that unusual. Atomic tests had been taking place out on best part of four years. Although Soviet radio broadcasts always tried had long suspected something more dramatic So an unexpected flash of light in the sky What was new was what came next. A loud bom, like a thunderclap magnified, In its wake came a shockwave that shattered As the entire city shook, panicked locals just happened. They had no way of knowing it, but over at their first thermonuclear device. In the hours to come, thick, black dust would winds from the test site. No-one would tell the city's hundreds of was going to doom them all. The Soviet atomic project had begun in earnest That day, the world had watched in awe as over the Japanese city of Hiroshima, turning an eye. In the aftermath, Stalin had ordered his right Beria, to force Soviet scientists on a crash By 1947, Beria's team were well on their They just needed somewhere to test it. It's at this point that Semipalatinsk's A remote city in a remote republic, Semipalatinsk with the rest of Kazakhstan following a brief Hugely underpopulated, the steppe surrounding testing. Lavrentiy Beria confidently informed Stalin There was just one little problem with this. Beria was lying. Although the Kazakh steppe beyond Semipalatinsk There were villages, like Znamenka. Nomadic peoples who wandered the plain, grazing In short, there was life out there, life that atom bombs. No-one knows for sure if Beria was misinformed, didn't care. If you've watched our video on Beria at probably guess the most-likely answer. Over the next year, the Polygon was constructed network of gulags. The prisoners built not just the site itself, nuclear blast could be measured. By fall of 1948, Beria's scientists had ready. Before a year had passed, they would have On August 29, 1949, people in Semipalatinsk distant rumble. Don't worry about it, the local Party told But it wasn't "just an earthquake". It was an atomic explosion, the Soviet's Little did Semipalatinsk's residents know When the Wind Blows was revealed to the world thanks to radiation. A US weather monitoring craft crossing between atmosphere that could have only come from On September 23, 1949, US President Harry It was shocking news, news that would spark For the oblivious civilians living near the Yet more tests. Over the next few years, loud booms, bright clouds became a regular fixture of life in While those in the city itself were 150km on the plain were both closer and less educated. They would stand outdoors in their villages, When gray dust fell, they thought nothing Yet even those who were living relatively Whether through accident or design, and you selected a test site that was swept all year Those winds carried radiation not just across All in all, it's estimated around 1.5 million exposed to radiation from the Polygon. Sometimes, the effects were dramatic. Take the blast we opened our story with, the Although not the biggest detonation conducted later, when the USSR tested its first hydrogen That day, the prevailing winds sent all the While the damage is hard to quantify, the deformities that happened not long after is But the detonation with the most immediate That month, the Polygon tested a dirty bomb radiation far and wide. On the day the bomb detonated, the winds were Over 400km away, 600 people in the industrial radiation sickness. All 600 were spirited away into Party-run No records remain to indicate if any of them That same year, the Soviets set up their first around Semipalatinsk. This being the USSR, they did it in utmost The lab was named Anti-Brucellosis Dispensary While people were treated for their radiation was wrong with them. By 1963, when the ban on above ground nuclear detonated at the Polygon. Already, at least 10,000 people had shown But testing at the Polygon didn't end with It simply moved underground. In the Shadow of the Mushroom Cloud away from Semipalatinsk and tackle a question One that likely runs along the lines of: But, on the other hand, didn't the US also The short answer is, yes, they did. But there was a qualitative difference, as If the bombs going off at the Polygon were those the US tested were a parody of the capitalist The detonations took place at the Nevada Test Just as residents of Semipalatinsk got used were the American tests visible from Las Vegas. But while the powers in Semipalatinsk tried in Las Vegas responded with ker-ching! Throughout the 1950s, hotels in Sin City held into the desert and watch as a mushroom cloud Hotels advertized rooms with windows facing Events were held where holidaymakers drank It was big business. And, best of all, it was safe! Unlike the Soviets, who didn't care which who could tell them with 100 percent accuracy Or so they thought. While the atomic parties were held in Las George, Utah, who were typically closer to For residents of this rural Mormon town, watching unwind on a Friday evening; a big, patriotic Unfortunately, it was also something that In 1953, a series of 11 detonations took place In the aftermath, a film of gray dust blew The government assured citizens that it was So people went to work in it. Sent their children out to play. It wasn't until the early 1960s that people Today, those that suffered the effects of Downwinders. Although it was their illnesses that led to US government refused to accept responsibility. So far, you might be thinking, so Soviet. But there is a difference. The Downwinders were able to speak out about without worrying about getting carted off In 1990, their pressure ultimately led to Act, establishing a fund for sick Downwinders. By 2015, it had distributed over $2 billion. What happened to the Downwinders is undoubtedly But there's a reason Semipalatinsk test of a video than the Nevada Test Site. And that's the poisonous mix of secrecy, test radiation on its own citizens. Oh, and regarding compensation. Those living today with the effects of the government. It amounts to 12 dollars a month. A Land of Death latest, short-lived testing phase at the Polygon. Way, way out in the remotest reaches of the the course of a river. But this wasn't just some accidental by-product The Soviets were experimenting with the idea Right, so you know how some firms involved devices to move earth? The USSR planned to do that with nuclear weapons. The 1965 test was a proof of concept, designed a river and create a whole new lake. Luckily, the rest of the world quickly found all like: "Uh, no." But the traces of that 1965 test still remain, Today it's called Atomic Lake. Stretching over 500m, with a maximum depth - looks almost inviting from the outside, In fact, you probably could swim in it without The water itself is not especially dangerous. It's the shoreline you have to watch out from that long ago blast. Impressive as it is, though, Atomic Lake is test site. Why don't we have a look at some of the If you were to travel to the Polygon - and - the surviving areas would be divided into off" and "everything else." Into this latter category would fall Test Radiation there is still between 100 and 400 idea. The former category, though, would contain Take the Geese. Sadly not actual, radioactive geese, but a Looking like gigantic shark fins, they were on buildings, but now look like the half-buried Other areas on the "I want to visit, plus underground metro station the Soviets supposedly We say "supposedly" because, in our research who'd actually visited it, but plenty of The last thing you might do as a hypothetical simply wander around with a geiger counter, Lots of websites like to claim that the Polygon has radiation levels 100 times normal. But radiation doesn't work like that. Rather than lying in an even blanket across of dangerous hotspots, surrounded by tracts If you've ever been to Chernobyl, you may areas being absolutely fine, while others Speaking of Chernobyl, it's time we got Because this one-time Soviet test site is a good reason for this. It's time for us to witness the collapse The Meltdown be hard pressed to find a statement more dripping in February, 1986. The Minister for Power in Soviet-ruled Ukraine, "The odds of a meltdown (at a Soviet nuclear Exactly two months later, the Chernobyl reactor irony. The Chernobyl disaster is worthy of a video one, again over at our sister channel Biographics a whole additional explosion. Thanks to new Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's Chernobyl disaster actually made it to ordinary Faced with the horrors Soviet nuclear policy In Semipalatinsk, those protests would detonate On February 12, 1989, a botched underground a huge amount of radioactive gas into the Two weeks later, the Kzakh poet, Olzhas Suleimenov, instead called for mass anti-nuclear demonstrations. By spring, a huge protest movement had formed It called itself Nevada-Semipalatinsk, an in America. Before long, Nevada-Semipalatinsk was a mass It even gained the backing of the newly-installed Then, on October 19, the Soviets detonated It would be the last nuclear test ever conducted News of the test caused tens of thousands One million signed a petition demanding an Sensing rebellion on the winds, Moscow caved. On October 21, 1989, all testing was halted By August, 1991, the Polygon had been officially Not four months later, Kazakhstan declared At the time of its final test, the Polygon any other site on Earth. Over 25 percent of all nukes ever detonated But where things like nuclear weapons are the dispersal of the mushroom clouds. For the residents of Semipalatinsk, the final Sacrificed for What? In late 1991, when it became clear that Kazakhstan republics leaving the USSR, Moscow sent officials There, the men collected all the documents They even took the decades of medical records Then they got on a train back to Russia and With them went any hope of the world ever test site. Fast forward to today, and what was in those The towns and villages surrounding the Polygon and birth defects. In Semipalatinsk, one in twenty children are On the ground, people are angry. They blame the vanished Soviets for condemning But without those documents, they can never While researching this video, we came across suggest the tests must have had some impact radiation for every problem afflicting Semipalatinsk It's worth remembering that a large number cleanup became sick not because of radiation would get sick that they simply stopped taking It's possible something similar happened Then again, it's also possible that we simply testing, or what other ghoulish surprises the locals. Whatever the truth, life around Semey is grim With little government support and not much margins of society, the victims of a policy no longer a part of. As for the Polygon itself, it's mostly returned Seeing it today, you'd be hard pressed to undulating steppe that surrounds it. But there is a difference. It's sometimes said that places where horrifying an invisible layer of horror that can never Usually, people are talking about places like cruelty. At the Semipalatinsk test site, though, that The pockets of radiation that soak the earth touched, or tasted by visitors. Yet they remain, hidden evidence of the atrocities For better or for worse, the Polygon will Invisible reminders of the time when the Soviet own people.