Resident Evil was a landmark game back in a plethora of other games in it's genre, critical acclaim across the board. Last week, I did a review on it after having that I thought it was really strong. 26 years later and the game still manages with strong level design and exploration and It was a fantastic game, an all time video Like I said last week, given the sheer volume in just a couple year's span, it was clear like this go to waste. In 1998, the world received...Resident Evil be a hit...but in actuality...things weren't Development on Resident Evil 2 began shortly director, Shinji Mikami taking a producer by Hideki Kamiya instead...Kamiya being someone for the creation of my favorite game series here nor there. Now, I said things weren't going well...It's really setting the world on fire. The game was going to be about a cop named Walker dealing with Raccoon City getting infested Which isn't too dissimilar to the final coming together in a particularly exciting The game was set to release in May of 1997 complete, it was announced that the game was overhaul the game design in the hopes of reaching This is when Capcom first released the Director's over. These days, fans refer to the scrapped RE2 it too as fans took the time to put a playable From what I hear, people seem to agree that the team had scrapped it and started over. Thank goodness they had the ability to look with it and began anew, because the RE2 we predecessor, having introduced characters as the ones from the first game. But, to close the lid on RE1.5, maybe I will I decided against it for this video because about with the Resident Evil 2 that we got For starters, of the games I had yet to play RE2 was the one I was the most excited to it's the original version of Resident Evil The remake of RE2 is without question, one it several times, beaten it with the best game. So that had me really curious about how the When I did a review on the Remake last year, play the original to compare them then, but and share why I love it so much and then I'd felt about the older games, and so...here This is still a review on the original RE2, a lot to see how it stacks up. Having said that, This is my take on the original The new director for RE2, Hideki Kamiya believed action inspired game compared to the more and that was exactly what they delivered on. RE2 on PS1 was so big that it came on two Disc 1 houses the campaign of Leon S Kennedy, City Police Department, and the other focuses from the first game. She's come to Raccoon City to find Chris The both of them meet in the midst of a city the streets en masse as they have to take which is also littered with zombies and other From there, the two campaigns go in very different discuss the plot. I used that brief summary to set up the fact the next level after RE1. In RE2, the player is dropped immediately are everywhere and you need to try and make overwhelm you. Compared to how the first game began with RE2 puts on full display how much more intense From there, I'd say the opening hour of On my first run for this video, I died three If you played RE1 before this, the zombies you are already familiar with their pattern, and it's design philosophy of upping the You will walk into a room and like 5 or 6 and when that happens the handgun you start feel pretty weak compared to what you are Because of this, finding new weapons feels Not that it wasn't in RE1, but RE2 just enemy design I just described, you will actively the zombies, like getting Claire's Bow Gun shot, the grenade launcher and a flamethrower. Claire gets pretty decked out in powerful to shoot zombies dead with them when they Leon's weapons aren't as powerful as Claire's his weapons, like firing three shots from that you get to equip on your shotgun. Leon's shotgun was good before, but the version is just so satisfying to hear as it Love how it has so much kick that it will angles to change rapidly, it's part of the Even with the fire power you get in RE2, you same time. In the first game, when you cleared a room from then on, until you revisited the house But RE2 keeps the tension up with a simple Zombies will stay down when you kill them, they are gone. RE2 introduces several new monsters you have are already familiar with. Chief among them, the Licker, a monstrosity it uses it's fast movement, sharp claws At the start of the game, this connecting the RPD will have zombies all around, but up later, right next to the ladder you use Things like that, or sudden jump scares like at the RPD keep the players on their toes, allows Resident Evil 2 to still be a suspenseful combat than Resident Evil 1. On the note of improvements, you'd expect If you are impatient like I am, you will greatly faster text speed than it's predecessor. While replaying RE1 for the video I did last run of RE1, having to read every character Yes or No?" as it came on the screen was something I didn't As for a mechanical change that leaves more to taking damage. By default your health is in the green, the the caution state, take even more and you In RE1, your abilities didn't change with to even see what your health was. Now, your health is clearly visible just by When in the caution state, Leon and Claire when in the danger state they will slowly move. It serves you by making it so you can tell to not be reckless with enemies because getting to survive if you don't have a healing item, a punishment for not being careful with enemies. Having said all that, you might be wondering...with game, how does the exploration factor from Resident Evil 2 is still a game focused on The RPD, the area the player runs around in of puzzles and locked doors to get through in order to get into different rooms. It's the exact same appeal as the first You find a door that says it can only be opened and are excited to see what lies behind the You also get that same excitement when a series you have to put these statues in the right statue in the middle, but also need to light reveal another red jem...putting these two then reveal a key item you need to escape This kind of design is just inherently satisfying However, I will say, I think RE1's mansion to the RPD in RE2. Like I said, RE2 has all the same exploration first game had more puzzles and items to speak to find the Guardhouse you then have to go you need to reach the Underground, and when even seen before like the basement, or the In the last video, I said a major source of seeing just how much quicker you could get for RE2...but to compare, it took me over the first playthrough and in RE2, it just So while the exploration of RE2 is the same game has more of it. But RE2 makes up for it with one of it's In RE1 you had to pick between playing the characters experiencing different story beats, two playthroughs as Jill rescues Chris at stuck for the entire game, and Chris saves same fashion. So what the actual story of RE1 is something Hell, RE2 says that Chris, Jill, Rebecca and no scenario of RE1 where that happened. RE2 put much more into the two playthrough As stated earlier, Disc 1 is where you play as Claire Redfield. On their own, these two campaigns are distinguished a woman named Ada Wong as they try to reach Claire runs into a little girl named Sherry The two leads interact with different characters, locked up in the basement of the RPD, and police. Although, different plot points and characters and Claire's stories connect that is the When you hit 'new game' on the title screen that character's perspective. When you save your game it will be listed beat it and save your game again, your ClaireA When popping in Leon's disc, you can then different version of Leon's story, that versa. This is one of those kind of simple concepts out like this, but let me continue explaining The opening cutscene sees Leon and Claire The A scenario character will reach the RPD to explore the place, while the B Scenario the side, because of this different starting the game's four campaigns. Like how in LeonA, he reaches The STARS office in town and gives her a radio so they can In ClaireB you just see this version of the But in ClaireA, she went through the STARS the part where they both see Sherry on the The story is filled with changes that make For example, in the middle of ClaireA, Sherry Ada find meet Sherry where she drops the pendant it up and wears it, which further provokes but in the LeonA/ClaireB story this never Another example is how in LeonA, Ada seemingly and Annette Birkin, but in LeonB Ada seemingly the Tyrant Monster. In ClaireA, Sherry gets infected with the but asks Leon to grab Sherry from where Claire but in the LeonA/ClaireB version of the story, My point is the entire story is riddled with all four versions of it's plot. But this also has an impact on the gameplay In this room in the underground of the RPD, your inventory by two slots, and a machine I played ClaireA first, and took the expansion gun for Leon to find in LeonB. I accidentally forgot to go in this room during take both the item expansion and the machine There are other examples like that in the the B scenario and that's quite cool. So you want to play both A campaigns and both how you explore different bits of level design bosses. Like how the first boss against William Birkin to do, the same goes for the Tyrant. I keep saying that there is reward in playing I actually did do four playthroughs of this I did Claire A and Leon B on Playstation, 64 because like it's predecessor, Resident There isn't as much to say between these as long on it, but I will just say briefly version of the original RE2, being available to know how the other ports are...I will first who worked on porting RE2, this two disc playstation The N64 is certainly not a slouch of a console, is completely different from the PS1's CDs. But, the game didn't compromise on anything comes with it, just with very compressed quality. Besides the A/V aspect, it plays just as good is not as sharp on N64 as it was on PS1, but the two consoles. So while not the best version of the game, team comprised of just 9 people to write the these PS1 assets onto the N64 in only 12 months more depth but...do I look like a programmer RE1 was released on the Sega Saturn like we to get RE2, it even got featured in an issue hardware, lack of success in the west, and Capcom scrap the idea as we did get full on on Dreamcast, as well as a new game, Code the Dreamcast. The port of RE2 on Dreamcast had features of art and FMVs, customizable button mapping full resolution FMVs probably making it the even if it's pricey. RE2 and RE3 were also ported to the GameCube ports too having a higher resolution yet again, But they do have this feature where you can moves you forward and how hard you press the is the most comfortable setup if you want angle, tank controlled game. And I'd be a fool not to mention that RE2 only people who would ever take a game.com to rush into a conversation being all like game in the series! RE2 ON GAME.COM CLEARLY IS THAT!" Yeah...no shit. I obviously just don't take games of this trash! But that's basically all I have to say on Before I went on this tangent about the ports, A campaign/B Campaign dynamic that was unique to be one of the biggest disappointments from It turns out that the remake of this game much like the original. They really wanted to get ambitious with it the way and so things didn't pan out like So some things made it in the game in a way to the fact that the dev team was crunching No bigger example than this alligator boss had to kill that just got turned into an Uncharted from the Remake. In RE2 Remake, the two campaigns feel much feel like they were even supposed to connect and roughly the exact same time and somehow The Tyrant also gets killed off in Claire's point. In the remake you will play the A story of B story, but the difference basically amounts being gone for the B character entirely, and in the game at the end and getting to see If you look at RE2make from the perspective to interact but them doing so was something it makes a lot more sense. But having said that, the B scenarios from how the original handled it. And it's not like there wasn't room for chance to really improve on these ideas from get the chance to do so. The story also felt much more fleshed out I remember not having that much to say on in hindsight, I feel like that's because Generally speaking, the remake keeps a lot original and this is entirely speculation, the remake of RE2 wasn't a direct sequel to be based on one that already existed. It certainly wasn't a sequel to the remake earlier with completely different gameplay, Xbox One, it was not a contemporary game that familiar with like you could going into, say, Here's what I mean: The original RE2 goes writings on what is actually going on in the with since this was a direct sequel to the one after having played that one. For example, it's made very clear that in the Spencer Mansion and found Umbrella's their lives. A few months later, Chris, Jill, Rebecca and for what they have done but are being held with Umbrella. In the remake, the events of RE1 are basically The T Virus that turned the Umbrella Staff into the city which is why the town is overrun The T Virus is also barely mentioned in RE2make, was the source of conflict in the original The G Virus was developed by William and Annette came for the formula, William used it on himself get away with the T and G samples, the T samples it to spread to the entire city. Most of the plot beats from the original RE2 I said, I feel the original game goes in more In both the original and the remake, Sherry as a G mutant, needed to use his daughter Correct me if I am wrong, but I don't actually just finds Sherry sick and brings her to the And like I mentioned, basically all the connections remake. Most noteworthy of all being Ada's character. In RE1, an Umbrella Researcher named John mansion. He was seeing a woman named Ada and I was Ada from this game, right? And it turns out that it is. Ada's whole story in this game is trying by Umbrella. Anette even mentions to Ada that John made that I thought was really goofy when you had end of RE1, but I refrained from making a The fact that such a minor thing was turned cool and it not being in the remake is a bummer. The reveal that Ada was only with this John secrets gets the audience more suspicious is really a spy trying to get her hands on to help her with that. Compared to the Remake where Ada claims to until the very end of the story. RE2Make has a good and entertaining story, RE1 means that a lot of interesting material But I have been seemingly dogging on the remake things a bit and talk about what the remake While the PS1 RE2 is a more detailed version what is there in a better way. I don't mean the cutscene animation, I mean...that I just mean that RE2make has much less exposition stand around telling each other the story This is one of the pros of some of the finer that is necessary like Umbrella's Task Force on the bodies of these soldiers that you can hooked up and these will show you what happened The one flashback you do get with Annette of the tapes you may have seen. The remake goes for a more character focused Getting the players invested in the emotions of intricate lore and when playing it through still think it works. I still feel a sense of urgency when you have story and that's just because they wrote when he takes Sherry from Claire, you already game, but his additional screen time as well reinforces the hate you'd have for his character. That's not the only example of course, I job overhauling as well, making her more human and feels conflicted between stopping William Point being, the additional character work The dialogue is also much more natural in into the story and buy into the characters. I don't mean to rag on the dialogue and the original did a pretty good job, the translation the acting is leagues and bounds better than I wouldn't say the voice acting of RE2 is is so much better, however I still think the and yes, notice some weird lines and delivery much about it since it's pretty decent across While I was on the subject of things RE2make now leads to a discussion on RE2make's gameplay For a whole review on the mechanics of RE2make but I just wanted to focus on some of the playing the original. In Leon's playthrough there is a part where after Leon takes a bullet for her. And in Claire's story there is a part where the original it was because she wandered off she got captured by Chief Irons. When reviewing RE2make I said that these segments pretty easy to get through, and is therefore because Sherry's is so scripted that once a lot of luster. But the segments with Ada and Sherry especially done with it in the remake more than I did The original just doesn't do much with these one puzzle...that Ada and Sherry both have main character, but then you play as them Where you do very little besides run through Narratively, separating Ada and Sherry from Annette and since Leon is not present for motives, and for Sherry, getting her away her with the G Virus. However, that's basically it. Now, what I said about the remake segments the devs reworking these moments into something I actively remember Ada having to hack into her, or the tension on the first playthrough in the part where you have to hide from him. Plus the harder difficulties add much more and believe me, I'd know. The things I prefer about the RE2 Remake don't Once the player regains control of Leon and weren't that impressive. I felt that the Underground and The Lab in and The Guardhouse in that very game, and The Sewers is especially bland as all you that go in a slot that opens the path to the that. Then you take a train car down to Umbrella's but it...also doesn't have too much going On the first playthrough, I got kind of tripped finding this computer login on the top floor, in the bottom floor, or how to synthesize but once you do that...there's not much I do like that they keep introducing new enemies from the start, the remake just reused the I will give credit to that. But the Remake really outshined the original First, the game opens with a relatively faithful worked in ways to make the RPD more puzzle the three medallions to get to the basement, to more stuff in the Safety Deposit Room. But once you escape the RPD the game keeps The Sewers and the Lab, now called The Nest On the one hand, trying to improve what was I just think what we got was such an improvement. You really need to explore different areas you use to solve a big puzzle to get into And in the Nest you have to gather the equipment you to reach the other side of the Lab where I think the later areas of RE2make lack the up really well in that game from top to bottom. The remake is also home to a more badass version A giant monster that chases you throughout this guy is one of the most memorable enemies I am biased a bit here because RE2make was playthrough, nothing was more menacing than towards me. It created tense situations like him chasing So you have to risk either going too slow, fast and attracting the attention of the Lickers. In the original game, The Tyrant will bug I was surprised at how lame he was in this He almost always got one punch in on me, but which gave me the perfect chance to escape, 45 minutes or so of gameplay. Remake really touched that one up. Same for the bosses for that matter. The remake bosses tested your ammo management, that were very memorable. RE2 has some really easy boss fights where try to get some distance and then keep shooting is and...that would be it, this being a game Kind of stealing the moment away from what bosses. Although, it's still super satisfying to rocket launcher. Despite my nitpicks with the final level, well done. You have to escape the Lab before it self-destructs clock to worry about. When I did my Leon B run I kept having to space for these cables you need and because beat the game with five seconds left on the I also like how the story ends, in particular The characters may have survived this nightmare, I mean, Claire has yet to find Chris, and city to become a zombie infested ghost town, more exciting sequels after this. Leon B ending with an iconic final line/sequel and the drums in the credits. And that's Resident Evil 2, folks. This review of RE2 kind of turned into an but I think I should make it clear that regardless does not take away from either one. Starting with the original, I thought the the level design, especially when comparing RE2's later levels with the RPD...but let's RE2 is a great game. I am so glad I finally got the chance to play with it from start to finish on all four of It's an all time classic and it definitely I definitely see myself revisiting this one get the highest ranks. But...compared to the Remake, I just don't RE2make is still one of my absolute favorite I didn't really expect RE2 to compare, but is definitely worth something. If I were to score the RE games I have reviewed, would then get an A...it just so happens that So yeah, compared to what I view as perfection, a great time. And hell, it does have a better story over both are worth your time. Although I just mentioned RE3make in passing, is a game I really don't know much about, Remake isn't that faithful, so I am curious Resident Evil 3: Nemesis. In the meantime, I will just say what I always Thank you all for watching and I will see