- Let's put aside the fact there are currently 575 of which 260 million are Let's also forget a recent of people would choose to over their resumes. Let's focus instead on just how your LinkedIn profile looks today to a recruiter, a a colleague checking to see if you kept your experiences honest. How does it look? In this video, I share my top five tips that'll help your profile to create an awesome profile Almost every single about LinkedIn profiles will recommend you to have a professional or LinkedIn banner, but none of them tell My current LinkedIn profile You can barely see my face. I'm not looking at the camera, and it's hard to distinguish Here's what I'm gonna do to fix it. First I'm gonna take a recent with my upper half of my body showing, looking directly at the camera, and uploading it to a removebackground.com. After I upload my photo, the and removes the background, and I get to download this Pro tip: in order to download you just need to sign You only get one shot at this so make sure you pick Then I'm actually gonna go to If you don't an account, And I'm gonna upload my photo with a transparent background to a 1,600 by 1,600 design page, as you can just literally type and create a new design. The LinkedIn profile picture dimension is actually usually 400 times 400, but I'm using 1,600 by 1,600 just so I make sure I won't if I want to zoom in other So as you can see, I already uploaded my transparent And here is where you can If you search for a background I'm just gonna show you guys. There are tons of free There are some that's But there are a lot of free backgrounds that you can use as well. Let me just check. Yeah, see, there's a And you can just go nuts with this. I actually personally like right over here, so I'm and change the colors up a little bit. Instead of pink and orange, I'm gonna select, let's something like that. So instead of this covering my face here, I'm just going to enlarge. Actually, no, hang on. I'm gonna move this and sort of design it a Yup, you'll see where Basically get a little creative. Okay, something like that. Actually, the white so I'm just gonna select the background and make it a gray color. Put it right over here. Okay, oh, see? What I did there is literally and moved it backward. Then I'm gonna put my Make it look nice and big. Yeah, look at that smile. All right, cool, and there you go. And now I can just download this. Download this picture and I have my new So hopefully that was I actually also don't I have right now. I think I uploaded it when I first started and I thought graphs and statistics made me So I'm gonna change it up as well. So all I'm gonna do is Click to create a new design. Type in LinkedIn banner, and select the first option that pops up. To save some time, I already And you will see this blank slot here, and I actually went ahead, already selected some that Canva provides. And you can see these on So just for example, let's say I wanna use I'll just put it on here, and with some of the elements here. So instead of using this one, I actually like this white the alarm clock with a lot of pencils without a notepad or anything. And again, this is where with your own creative, So if I wanna add some text here to the laptop background, I can. I don't know what to put without making me look narcissistic. Maybe I just add my initials. That's totally not gonna Enlarge it a little Let's see, Permanent I think that size is fine. And all I gotta do now is click Download and select the first All right, so first step done. Updated my LinkedIn profile picture and background banner in real time for the first time in four years. if you found this first tip helpful, let me know by dropping a with a link to your LinkedIn Tip number two, your about section should So I read something recently and that's the biggest and LinkedIn profile is that towards the role that you're applying for, whereas your LinkedIn profile should be a more general overview of So contrary to some of I think it's totally okay that paints a more holistic rather having extremely which I think is more relevant in the experiences section anyways. A good way to go about this is imagine if someone were to read your resume, they will probably start of person you are by going your education, and your Now, if they go on your LinkedIn which a lot of recruiters obviously do, would what they see on or conflict with their And since your about section following your profile This section should really complement instead of repeat what For me, I'm not actively so my summary is extremely simple. But if I were looking for for example, I'd say something like, &quot;Product marketer with six plus years in the B2B market in Greater China. I explain complex products in ways business owners understand.&quot; Notice I keep the number of adjectives and buzzwords to the minimum. And that one-liner is very consistent with the story I'm trying Tip number three, showcase real work you've This section is pretty much &quot;A picture is worth a by giving you a place to If you're a student, upload classwork that have received a high score, maybe a market research project. Or if you've participated upload the final presentation on here. If you're a working professional, this is where you can link any externally shareable projects. For example, a colleague of mine who does amazing market research work. Her name is Rohini. And she's responsible for a series of market research reports These reports have been and shared widely on external platforms. Being the project lead, she features these giving her a lot of to anyone who might For me, I don't have to being as impressive, so I just link my most and YouTube videos. By the way, I have a Facebook group where I share weekly tips. Consider joining if you haven't already. I'll link it down below. Tip number four, in your LinkedIn experiences section. Many people make the mistake of copying and pasting their entire resume onto their LinkedIn. While I wouldn't say this I think there's a better You usually have to keep each achievement within three to four lines on your resume, so you have to be very succinct, right? You should see the LinkedIn as a way to expand on by providing more background and context. This is also in line with what I mentioned at the beginning of the video, how your LinkedIn profile about your professional life. And expanding on your achievements found in your resume is a natural And just in case I haven't in my resume video, make sure to include I recently spoke with a young professional who works at a big four She mentioned how sometimes she doesn't know the business impact because for some of the she doesn't get to stay until the end, and therefore she doesn't In that case, I would say of pitches you've helped out on in a given quarter compared Or better yet, the dollar value of the successful pitches There are always meaningful data points that you can highlight. Finally, a small hack for those of you who are actively job searching. Use a free word cloud generator, and throw in the job in there to find some of the throughout the experiences section. Ending with a very get a custom URL. Some of you might already have this, but if you don't, go to your profile, click the little pencil icon that lets you edit your profile, where you can see the custom URL option, and change it to whatever you like. I already have this Other than your resume, cover letter, and some other social media accounts, I have found the most useful place to include your LinkedIn URL This is very handy I hope this video helped. Subscribe If you haven't already, and comment down below if See you on the next video. And in the meantime, (clicks (air whooshing)