Good afternoon masters. Welcome to the Tool Zone. I'm Gagy. Today we will be testing one Parkside welding machine. It is a PMSG 200 A1 model. It is a multi-process device. What it means? It means it supports MIG/MAG welding, it supports electrode arc welding and it supports TIG welding. This is the model that appears here for the first time. In Lidl, its price is around 200 EUR. It comes with a three-year warranty. Some basic specifications say that when welding with an electrode we can work in the range of current from 30 to 140 amperes. In MIG/MAG we can work from 50 to 160. In TIG or WIG we can work from 30 to 200 amperes. It comes with two meters of connecting cable. Here we can see what else is coming from plugins. High performance, compact tool with robust metal housing and carrying handle. You get this paper, you scan this QR code. If you go to that link, you will learn about the dangers of welding. We get an instruction manual . Read it, watch it and save it. I came across a voucher here in the manual that says, a voucher for ordering a quality TIG torch at a discounted price. I haven't seen anything in Lidl's catalog about it, but it says that it is possible to order a quality TIG torch on favorable terms. Delivery is free. I really don't know what it is about, if someone orders it, they can leave a comment about what happened to it. What are the conditions and what is the price of the burner. We have a coil of filled wire. This wire is used when welding without using shielding gas from a bottle. Here you got 200 g, the diameter of the wire is 1 mm. It's nice of them to provide this, so that someone who doesn't have a bottle, pressure gauges and other equipment can at least weld something. We received four more nozzles 0.6, 0.8, 0.9 and 1 mm and we have one nozzle already mounted on the burner which is 1 mm in diameter for aluminum. All in all 5 Disneys. What was missing from the delivery was a nozzle wrench. That's not a problem, you can always unscrew it with a small wrench or combination tools. About 5 electrodes are obtained here . As far as I can see, these are rutile electrodes. A small hammer with a steel brush is obtained . For those who do not have first aid, this mask is also provided. Not great but still better than no mask at all. I will not use this one, I will use my automatic welding mask. As for the ground cable, the cable is OK. 16 mm2 is the diameter of the cable. Here, as far as I can see, they decided to use dins 9 connectors. DINSA 13 connectors are generally used for this amperage. This is the limit of some combination and the maximum cable diameter that this connector supports. As I always comment, this reminds me more of battery charger pliers than solder paste pliers. If you have the opportunity at some point, replace them with better pliers than these. These turned out OK, they do the job, but with better pliers you will get better results. Along with all this, we also get an electrode holder. I see the spec is 200 amps at 20%, 16mm2 cable, dinsa 9 connector. We had a situation where, for example, Hugong does not provide this cable with the MIG/MAG machine at all. Here we got this cable which is nice from Parkside. There is also the MB15 burner, a classic burner for these smaller appliances. As far as I can see OK, it looks solid. Euro plug, that's Ok done. As for the gun itself, it doesn't seem bad. The only complaint is that the length of this cable is 2m. It would be nice if it was 3-4m, but good. We all know it's a hobby tool. If you need a longer cable length, it is a standard connection, so you can buy a longer one. As for the device, it looks nice visually like this, OK done. As far as I can see, everything is metal, there is no plastic anywhere, which is a plus in my opinion. The Euro plug is located here. Two female DIN connectors 9mm. Here you have plus and minus marks. You have written (which is very handy especially for beginners) where which gender is set depending on what you are using. Here you have a solid core, solid wire when used with gas for MIG/MAG welding. Here, at the minus pole, it says that if you use a charged wire, then you will connect the device there. Someone forgets it, predicts it, and here it is good to stand in a visible place as a reminder. As for the control panel. It is quite reviewed and clear. Very nicely done. We have three buttons where we will select functions. We have one wheel, which can go on and on rotates, with which we will perform possible corrections and regulation of amperage, correct parameters... On the upper side of the device, a large plastic handle is placed, it works comfortably and is OK. On the back of the device we have an on and off switch. We have a connecting cable. The connection cable is 3 x 1.5 mm2, it is a marginal variant. According to me, the cable should be 3 x 2.5 mm2 that goes to the device. We have a gas connection here. We have a fan that is responsible for cooling the electronics and here we have a table with parameters. The parameters say the following. The manufacturer is CMC. It is the company that produces welding machines for Parkside. In general, as far as I've seen, everything related to welding and electrodes is done by the CMC company. Here we have for MIG/MAG welding, which tells us that at 160 amps there is 20% intermittency. This means that we can weld for two minutes, after which it cools down for 8 minutes before further welding can be continued. In a period of 10 minutes, work for 2 minutes, cool down for 8 minutes, and then continue. At a current of 92 amperes it is 60%, it works for 6 minutes and cools down for 4 minutes. At a current of 72 amperes, it can work 100%, that is, the intermittency is 100%. in those 10 minutes. As for electrode welding, 20% intermittent is at 140 amps, 60% at 81A and 100% at 63A. So 80A with 60% is quite solid for hobby use. It can be welded with a 2.5 electrode without any problems. We have an option here for TIG. There is 10% intermittent at 200A. Welding minutes at 200 amps at 82A 60% and 63A 100%. On the right side of the welding machine, there are ventilation openings and safety instructions. On the left side of the device, next to the ventilation openings, there is a button for opening this page, and when we open the page inside, we see that the traction and coil are located there. There is 200 g of aluminum wire, 1 mm in diameter, on the spool. What is important to tell you is that this device accepts coils with a diameter of 100mm and 200mm. As far as the towing is concerned, as far as I can see, it is mostly made of plastic. In principle, this is not a problem. As far as I can see, the plastic is ok, it's decent. What should be taken into account is that when the welding machine is not used for a long time , to release this wire tensioner, which presses the transport wheels, so that the plastic does not bend over time, so that it causes some problems. In principle, if you do not use the welding machine for a long time, take and release this wheel here or release this. When you need to work, you will only adjust the traction to get friction between these two wheels again and you will not have a problem. The wire guide is a bushing. Here, as far as I can see, it's a ball bearing, that's OK. And here we have a dial that is double-sided. Now I will dismantle it. Here's the traction wheel. On one side 0.6 mm, on the other side 0.8, 0.9 and 1 mm. Depending on what thickness of wire you are using, this is how you turn the dial. With that one note goes along with that. When you want to use 0.6, then it is necessary that the side that says 0.6 goes to the device. If you decide to use 0.8, 0.9 or 1 mm, you need to turn so that the side of the wheel where it says goes to the device, not to you. So that you don't accidentally get confused and turn the wheel upside down. Here, you have one key. This needs to fit nicely in there, put this little screw back. As for the spool carrier. Here you have one plastic adapter that is two stage. What does two-step mean? See how it looks. It is designed to be there for both small and large reels. In principle, they could supply some plastic attachment that will provide support for the large reel along its entire length, and it actually rests on this part here and will rest here. But that's fine, it is what it is. We will not be using aluminum wire at this time . Its technological designation is ER5356, 1mm thick. We will use solid wire for welding 0.8 mm. What is important to know when inserting a wire. The wire is hooked on one side. Don't let the spool unwind when you unhook the wire. When you have pulled out the wire, you hold it with your hand, cut the end, and then it is inserted into the hole. Now we're going to mount the coil here first , and then we're going to do that. The other thing missing is the spool retarder, which should go in this hole on the spool. It's a montage simple, put on a coil. Put the spring back and tighten the nut. My advice when inserting the wire, tighten this a little tighter. To prevent the coil from turning uncontrollably to the side, to prevent the wire from unwinding. You will need some snips to cut this part that was bent. You hold this by hand the whole time. You cut the wire. And gently introduce her into the bosom. When you have introduced the wire into the hole, you keep pushing until it enters here in the channel. Pull it in a little, about 10 cm. Close this. You tighten a little, so that she cannot move freely. It should not be overstretched, but there should be solid pressure. You will know this by how much of a mark it leaves on the wire. It is important that it does not slip, and yet that it does not exert too much pressure, so that it does not make it difficult for the traction motor to struggle with it. That's it, we finished it. The next thing is the assembly of the polycable. Euro connection. You can't turn it upside down. You just push this in everything. You tighten this nicely by hand and that's it. As for the polycable. Be careful not to bend it too much. Always make a nice bow like this bigger. Do not bend sharply so as not to cover the bushing inside, then the wire will not be able to come out as it should. Once we've connected that, the next thing we do is remove the nozzle. Unscrew the nozzle of the burner. Since the 1 mm nozzle is fitted. We put the wire 0.8 and we have to choose the lift accordingly. You don't wrap it right away, but take it and leave it aside. Now we're going to turn on the welding machine, let it push the wire out, and then we're going to put on the nozzle and put the nozzle back. You may have noticed by the sound as I held down this here button on the burner. The apparatus begins to push the wire slowly and then at one point when it notices that there is no resistance, that the apparatus does not establish an arc, it increases, that is, accelerates the ejection of the wire, because it assumes that we are currently pulling the wire through the torch. Which is very good, it saves you time. Every time you change the wire, you don't waste much time until the wire comes out. Now we will mount the nozzle. You just pull it over the wire. You turn it with your hand and just tighten it a little. No need to overdo it. Let's get the gun back. And we cut the wire. Since we put a solid wire in the device, we will connect this connector to the plus pole, where it says solid wire gas MIG welding, we connect the other connector to the minus pole. What should we know about this device? We should know that it is a synergistic apparatus. He will determine most things about MIG/Mag welding himself. You will be able to correct the parameters there, to adjust the welding current, but most things are done by him. It is quite easy for someone who is starting to do this job, that is, to do welding. Here you first select the wire you inserted. The first position is for the millimeter aluminum wire that you received, the 200 gr in the package. Another variant is 0.6 - 0.9 mm wire. We put 0.8. We will work on that setup. If you insert a wire with a diameter of 1 mm, then you will go to this item here. We need him here. The upper display shows the voltage. The lower one shows the current, that is, the amperage. The second part of this section has the option to select whether we will do MIG/MAG welding. The only difference between MIG/MAG is which gas is used. Is it an active gas or an inert gas. If it is an inert gas, then it is MIG, if it is an active gas, then it is MAG. Another option is TIG welding. There we have the setting of the welding current. As for settings, you can spin this dial infinitely like this. But if you need to get to 200 amps now, it takes time. It has a function when this dial is pushed in and then it goes to 10 amps. Then you can easily install 80 amps and very quickly install 200 amps. The next function is for electrode welding. Same story, you have a welding current setting. You also have the VRD function here, which is to reduce the working voltage in order to protect the welder if there is a danger of the circuit closing through the worker himself. It just activates here and that's it. I won't use it. What do we have next to the setup as far as MIG/MAG welding itself? We have a variant when we press this here button to make corrections. In the range -5 to +5. We will be able to correct what he thinks is good for us. Because it can happen that what the computer in it thinks is good for us, does not give adequate results, i.e. the results we would like to get. So it will be necessary to correct it in minus or plus, depending on that. As for the gas connection. We need to get this protective cap out of here. As far as I can see, this is intended for a hose with a diameter of 8 mm. While, for example, on manometers it is standard 6mm. It will have to be clamped here, it is not a quick connection. What would be nice is if they delivered a couple of meters of hose to us, so that we could have that in the kit. But since they are not, so be it. Here is the CO2 gas hose. Tighten it well so that there is no gas leakage. Protective equipment includes a mask, welding gloves... Don't use any loose, thin textile ones, so as not to catch yourself on fire. I occasionally use a welding sleeve and a welding apron is also used by me. Save my wardrobe, so I'm used to it. Let's let off the gas. As for the gas flow setting, in principle, 8 to 10 L/min is quite enough. I'll put somewhere around 9 liters per minute. In order to extend the life of nozzles and nozzles, you can use a spray and you can use a paste. Whatever you want. If you use a spray, before welding, take and spray a little inside, inside the nozzle. If you use paste, it is necessary to dip the burner in the paste. What will we do first? First, we'll examine the amperage to see if it matches what's on the display. I connected the clamp amp here . I put it at 50A so let's see if 50 amps is really 50. I increase the amperage to 80A. Let's go to 120A. And at a maximum of 160A. As for the appearance of the weld, in principle OK except for this one at 50 amps, it does not look at all, but these three 80, 120 and 160 amps look quite OK. As for the sound when welding at 160A it doesn't sound very ideal to me, at 80A and at 120A it sounds OK to me. Let's see how it will sound and how it will work when I add correction to it at 160A, to +5, that's the maximum. Let's see how the machine will work then. There we could see that it reaches 160A at its peak. Here I have all kinds of electrodes. Now we will try what and how it works. We're going with a 1.6mm electrode at 40 amps to see if it works. There is little trouble establishing an arc with that electrode, at that amperage. Electrode 2 mm. I increased the current to 60A, let's see what it does with it. This works without any problems as you can see. Let's go to 80A. Electrode 2.5 mm Bohler Fox OHV. In general, as far as I can see, there are few problems regarding the ignition of the electrode itself, but it behaves OK in operation. Let's go to 120A, electrode 3.2 mm. We did this without any trouble, it behaves well. The ignition was also a little better this time. Maybe it has something to do with the electrodes as they are quite old. You can see the slag separating. Let's go to 140 amps at maximum, electrode 4 mm. I'm going to go along the edge here so I don't have to turn this piece now because of one electrode. I can tell you it's not bad. Let's just see what we did. Basic electrode Bohler 7018. I reversed the poles on the device. 110 amp welding current, let's see how it works with it. Now it didn't turn it off, now it's OK. Something was wrong with the electrode, I didn't dry them, so maybe that's why. But the one where it wasn't kidding is totally OK. This is where I screwed up, I didn't press the recording button on the camera and I was working with EVB50 electrode 3.2 mm at 140A. Does not matter. This is the middle weld here. Now I will do a little more with this rest that I have left . Let me show you how it works. It worked normally without any problems. Well, as I said, it works without problems with that electrode. Let's go with 120A. Let's do the same on 160A. Here you can see a little closer how it looks at 160A, material thickness 5 mm. One more thing we're going to try, and that's I'm going to take and set the machine to 160 amps. I will weld continuously until it shuts me down. It should be about two minutes or until I get tired. I won't continue any further it just takes too long and doesn't turn me off. Ambient temperature 22 degrees, device temperature 30 and something. At the air outlet 27.8 degrees. Before I disconnect the device from the gas and make a conclusion, the device has a post gas. So for a few more seconds, I think it's four seconds, he releases the gas after the welding is finished. Now I'm going to show it to you, so you can hear it, I hope I'll be able to convey it to you. And before we conclude the story about this device, let me show you just how to clean the nozzle. There are pliers of this type. These are UNIOR pliers. It is pushed in and turned a couple of times and the nozzle is cleaned. It is necessary to do this occasionally because everything inside collects from the cracks and the spray or paste does not allow it to stick inside. So this way you can get in there nice and fine and clean everything that remains inside the nozzle. Here let me show you this now everything has come out of her. As for the device, I can say that I am quite satisfied with it. It can be seen at the start that they saved wherever possible, and that is on the tongs for mass. So take it right away and replace it as soon as you have a chance. Simply, these clamps are not for these currents. This can withstand max 120A at 160A it heats up a lot and that is not good. The cables can stay they are ok. The burner is OK to start with. The electrode holder is also nothing special and should be replaced at some point. To put better quality. You saw that the transport is made of plastic. Care must be taken to release the transport when it is not used for a long time. The rest, as far as the work itself is concerned, is extremely easy to handle, easy to work with, and welds beautifully. I can't fault the soul really Ok it works. Here we welded a 1 mm thick sheet here and a 5 mm thick sheet here, so in general for those material thicknesses up to 5 mm this is OK. If you need it for some household work where you will make your own gate, fence, some locksmith for personal needs... For such things, the machine is perfectly OK. You saw what electrodes we used. Some of these electrodes are a little older so they know how to mess around. We also worked with basic electrodes and basic electrodes can weld up to 3.2 mm. It works quite decently. Again, as far as setup goes, it's an extremely simple synergistic device. You basically just adjust the current you need according to the thickness of the material approx. Make corrections if necessary and that's generally it. There is nothing much to philosophize about . Take the camera and work. What I owed, that I did not record due to technical impossibility, and that is because I did not expect that there were dinsa 9 connectors on the device. I was expecting a dinsa 13 and I have a dinsa 13mm for a Tig burner. I don't have dins 9, so that's simply why I didn't shoot in the TIG process. And as for welding with a flux-cored wire, you only need to reverse the poles if you work with it and you can watch a clip about the apparatus with a flux-cored wire. I'll put a link to it up here for you, so you can look at that review just to get to know a little more about the filled wire and what and how it works, what are the limitations. I have not worked with the filled wire now for the simple reason that I believe it will be used quite rarely. In my opinion, that 's when you have a device like this for some possible emergency situations, when you run out of gas so you can finish the job. Otherwise, in regular work, it is certain that you will first always take an electrode or, if you have gas, you will do MIG/MAG welding. Regarding the quality of the weld, it would be better to use one of the mix gases that has argon with CO2. I used pure CO2. It has some disadvantages when welding, but in principle, considering that it is a cheap gas, it is not something crucial in most cases. Which he says goes without any problems. That would be it for us. I think that for the price of 200 EUR, which is what this device costs, that is, 25,000 RSD, I think it is a really good purchase. He has a recommendation from me for now. I like how it works and works for hobby use, really a very good device. A big greeting from your Gagy from Tool Zone. If you have experience with this device, write it below in a comment. If you're interested in something else that I didn't mention in the video, write it in the comments and I'll answer you, and we'll see you in the next video. Well, yes, don't forget to subscribe and like the video if you liked it. Bye.