Okay ready? Right here on the border between experiment ever built. It's this huge tunnel over nearby homes and businesses and farms and inside enough to crawl through and inside that tube they than outer space and down those pipes they directions pushing them faster and faster and they smash together, sending subatomic debris underground particle smasher took thousands of $5 billion and over 30 years to plan and build. much money and time to smash particles together people say that what we really a bigger one? &quot;Future Circular Collider&quot; &quot;new particle accelerator&quot; &quot;building a bigger one&quot; &quot;in Geneva, Switzerland&quot; &quot;more than 3 times the size and twice as deep&quot; I'm going all the way to Switzerland what's really going on here and to go on a how I see myself and the world around me... This is Huge If True. &quot;Minus one, please.&quot; I'm in an elevator on scientifically known as the Large Hadron Collider physics lab in the world: CERN. I can't believe deal. Thousands of scientists from do cutting edge research about We're in a tunnel now! Beyond that yellow door is one of Specifically this one, the Atlas detector. Oh.... my... god. It's beautiful! This thing is HUGE. just look at it compared to a person. compared to this enormous machine. How did you that there is a a shaft above us. If people exactly the same way of constructing: You have I'm so amazed that people built this. This giant finally collide after being sped up close to the the collision happen? &quot;So the collision happens over collision point and so we're at one end of it.&quot; The very small. &quot;What you can see in the center is the tiny the beam pipe is.&quot; Each pipe is about the size of an orange with thousands of magnets running pipe into a space the width of a human hair. I just to demonstrate this. Can you see this hair? Okay. Can talking about right now? That's the size of the human hair is enormous compared to the particles particles inside of them are very small but they at a single strand of your hair. Now imagine that is wide. Now zoom in. The size of a single cell from Paris to Rome. Now zoom in again. A protein across. An atom inside that protein would be like that atom would be like the width of a grain of be like grains of salt. So a proton compared to compared compared to THE ENTIRE EARTH. And that inside of this machine. Protons. Which are being a hair. It is incredible that we can do this. As full scale of reality, but there's so much more. little protons down a tunnel 27 km long how do think about shooting grains of salt at each other Seriously, think about it! If you just thought &quot;fire tons of salt&quot;... don't just fire a 100 or a thousand protons at each direction and when they do that, 100 billion &quot;On average we get about 50 or 60 collisions per collide, which is why they'll do the whole thing second. There's approximately 3,000 bunches each collisions per second inside of this massive wait for it... so I made these hats and sweatshirts getting comments about people who want to buy manufacture them for you but if I did I know of this video. Shopify is a commerce platform that the creator shops that you've seen are built so I could imagine being able to sell hats and also offer a bunch of AI tools that can help write images or emails. They call this Shopify Magic. And easier to sell across borders with local payment that. Basically, they make selling things online a free trial, click the link in my description. And or hat, subscribe and you'll be the first story. Okay so we have thousands of scientists of protons in an underground tunnel but why? Why do the internet you'll see that there are a lot of... holes to it already ended the world and we're to new dimensions to hooded figures performing a prank by the way. No. We are not doing any of both much harder to explain and much much cooler. scientists smash these protons together, we get the start of our universe, the Big Bang. That's of energy for how small protons are, but in the less than the total energy of a hand clap. But mass are related so when these protons collide at that energy can turn into physical mass... which is enough it can turn into mysterious or unknown universe, which we really want to know about to or to just satisfy our own curiosity. But those instant, before they turn back into more everyday outward towards sensors that record exactly see is more like a crime scene. They can see they need to work backward using very complex moment of collision and what mystery particles yeah! You're right. But important! &quot;We're not just though we do like it. We do it because we physics is to try to understand the fabric of you divide it again, you divide it again, until anymore. The elementary particles.&quot; That's what Elementary particles, the building blocks of our universe. some like electrons or photons which give us light. thanks to brilliant people doing extremely to prove that math actually predicts the a beautiful description of how we as humans think The Standard Model. &quot;We can understand a lot about our we're made of. It's pure research to try to understand the Large Hadron Collider specifically is that be another particle... a mystery particle... likely no one had ever actually detected. They called the &quot;God Particle.&quot; The standard model seemed to to universal existence&quot; because - and here's where confirm the existence of an underlying field that God Particle would help us understand why everything was a big mystery and this underlying field was the Higgs Boson, the particle related to this field, to do that we needed to get enough energy in one together at nearly the speed of light and that is PHEW. So they built it! And after they finished, data at two different detectors until finally they They reliably created the Higgs Boson, something truth about our universe that had before this. Yep it's a bump on a chart. Think about that chart. Like... that's it? Yeah! It's awesome! Higgs Boson exists, when we smash particles it is. &quot;There was literally a bump. There were more The math was right. This confirmation didn't immediately change you and me, but it showed us that as never going to know the impact of discovering Isaac Newton revealed the motion of our moon and imagined there would be humans on the of our discoveries today. That's the point of so that our children can build with them later &quot;I don't know what understanding the Higgs Boson is in 20, 30, 50 years, the better that we understand technologies that change our lives.&quot; And the Higgs Hadron Collider has uncovered. It has shaped our interact and combine and put our theories about But now, some scientists argue that we might this collider and there's still so much that we argue that now what we need to do That's the big debate happening right now. &quot;There's things we're looking for. of the universe. We have measured really clearly through gravitation as far as we can tell.&quot; He's have been a better name, doesn't matter, it doesn't our eyes but it affects gravitationally and it is there because it impacts things that we can galaxies. Through those effects we can calculate Could a bigger collider help us learn about it? will find dark matter. It might answer something maybe will find something we had no idea was Does it have a name? &quot;It has a horrible name! It has Future Circular Collider, which of course you have to building this new collider would cost roughly $17 100. But not everyone thinks that this is worth fallen short of what some hoped that it would suggest we'd need even more energy than this new anything truly new. I think there's no need to a reason not to try. The byproduct of all of the in new therapies for cancer treatments, better more sensitive radiation detectors that we now use to communicate now called the World Wide Web. All of know what we'll come up with next. Just imagine deeper understanding of what gives things mass! The And listen, I am not at all qualified to we should build and there are other ideas out There's a proposal for a very powerful collider without spending on this kind of pure research. spend twice as much on defense. The US spends 10 to do that right now and that can very well be than that.&quot; It would be reasonable to say, hey maybe would apply more directly to improving people's &quot;That's a false choice. Fundamental research is research. It' be like saying, okay we're going to but we're going to cut out elementary school and We are the very very basics. You have to have all of the universe but there is so much left to can't see? And where did we come from? And what's we're here, what we spend our time on shows who look at what we have built, I would want them to I would want them to understand through what to learn and tries to do better and aches to we can barely understand. I would want them to see and yes we can only glimpse such a tiny slice hard. And that is something that the effort that we put in today This was one of my favorite scripts to write ever but it was incredibly hard. This is just such a script was fact checked by a physicist at CERN of the physics here, I'll link to a couple of my And if you want there to be more of this kind of to our show Huge If True, it really means a lot. It places and make more videos for you. It's a big