In 2001, Lego hit it big with the overwhelming A line of buildable action figure heroes to technic beasts. It was a brilliant toy-line, with perfect storyline told across commercials, games, How could lego follow up such a perfect launch? How could they POSSIBLY improve on what they'd There's one...simple...answer... BALL!!! Hi, I'm Jett Kuso! I like to nostalgically analyze toy-lines to the world of Mata-Nui to look back at the We got BOHROK we got BAHRAG, and perhaps...some Something I very intentionally left out of Game. It's a browser flash game created by Templar heavily inspired by the game Myst. You wander around as a matoran, solve puzzles, directed animated cutscenes. It was released in chapters throughout 2001, around and solve puzzles and bump into the Makuta. You never get to see the full picture of what's which was INCREDIBLY cool! It was a huge source of that early Bionicle story project for Bionicle by ACCIDENT. A console game starring the toa had been planned, It looks kinda bad... But because of that, Takua the Chronicler, BASICALLY became the MAIN CHARACTER of Bionicle. And this is where we get back to the actual By the time the final chapter of the game Lego knew by then that Bionicle was a wild in to play this little game and see the conclusion... And so they seized the opportunity to do a Did I say foreshadowing? I meant advertising. After the final battle, the evil Makuta has dark. A door opens, and being a point and click to find....tthhhhis, stuff..... Oh dear. Oh goodness buddy, oh buddy that's weird WOAH. WH. WHAT'S THAT?? WHAT'S THAT TOY I DON'T HAVE THAT TOY Aw wait no go back, I wanna see that spooky Awww dang it... Well I guess we'll never know what those ...Got-dang-it. Dump out the canister! Start building! Pretend you don't need the instructions instructions anyway because you are 4! Once built, ya gotchaself a Bohrok; a bug-like the island of Mata Nui. Pressing this lever causes the Bohrok's capable of detaching the mask of a toa more Rubber bands then snap the head back into bug's face shield. Another press of the lever sends the robot's body of any unmasked creature. But that's not a risk... What toa would be careless enough to get themselves LEWA I SWEAR TO GOD!! The body of a Bohrok is made of unique new dual action feature function REALLY well. They can knock off masks reliably, and even oW. HEY, OW, DUDE THAT FRICKIN HURT! The only thing the Bohrok CAN'T do is actually when it's flung. It takes a bit of kid-brain imagination-play I'm still a little guy, I know how to have And not only do the Bohrok's action features into a BALL! As a kid who thought the Destroyer Droids I'd ever seen, it was cool to roll a ball This was a formative experience for me. The Bohrok are truly the proto-Bakugan, but from Aliens! They're a big swarm of little bug-like freaks, talk about later) and they basically launch The Krana are cool on their own just cause in a way that makes a toa look REALLY creepy. Of course the Krana came in a variety of different Bohrok and available inside little separate What are all the Krana types called? I'm glad you asked! All you have to remember is Xa, Za, Vu, Ca, EASY! Meanwhile if you thought the Toa canisters synthesis of form and function. After you've folded up the Bohrok you can the LID of the canister. Then you just remove the back label, which is held upside down in a deeeeeep slumber.... The front label even has double-sided printing inside the canister, which makes this display I don't know that I've EVER seen a better Oh... Limited edition barbecue Pringles. While I was writing the script for this I'd feature, then I'd remember "oh holy cow Bohrok did." Even if the Bohrok were a standalone toy-line, be REALLY good action figures with an incredible But of course, it takes more than one bug in this first wave... In my last Bionicle video I was a little bit care for them and they deserve it. I feel much more positively about the Bohrok of the same product tier. It's such a WEIRD little character design, Lookit! This one's got little swords! And if you flick their arms down they can BOINK! BONK! In the lore, since a Bohrok goes dead after scouts that can bring a fresh Krana to an Like if bees had little smaller necromancer they do their one sting. Aw... The Bohrok Va came out a bit before the Bohrok, mirrored the Toa Mata and Turaga. A sort of dark reflection. Their elemental powers mirror each other, Where the Toa were noble, the Bohrok were Where the Toa were alphas, the Bohrok were Since there WEREN'T any villains in the toa, it was VERY cool to go canister-collecting But the difference between the Bohrok and So when YOUR parents tell OTHER parents that party, it is NOT a problem when you end up "LEHVAK, THE SWAMP BOHROK! Watch out, they secrete a powerful acid..." But also, it created a huge power imbalance a year of story it looked like the Bohrok... 2002's story was told in two primary places: of Online Animations created by Templar Studios, Time and time again throughout this media, the Bohrok are said to be truly unstoppable. Even when a Tahnok swarm is submerged under boils as they climb the walls of the trap. And when the matoran destroy the bridge to Ga-Koro, Lewa is braindead, the Matoran are forced fight the swarms, the toa are forced into to unlock a secret power deep inside the Bohrok The Bohrok seemed overwhelming and unbeatable NEW FIGHTERS JOIN THE FRAY! The Boxor! A mech suit designed by the Matoran, made chewed gum. I re-built THIS Boxor model years ago so it close enough... When you press the model down left or down it's BOXIN' CLAWS in rock-em-sock-em fashion. I presume you're supposed to defeat Bohrok grabbing the Krana I guess, but I always just did It's mechanically impressive, and aesthetically It even comes with a McDonalds-style Matoran, color for Bionicle. It's not like...posable at all, but the In the story the creation of the Boxor turns fight, and gives our little villagers the A theme which would become more and more prominent Oh uh, and then the toa found some giant mech I couldn't afford to buy an Exo Toa set for this video, afford it when I was a kid either... It's a lot like the boxor but for the toa; any opinions cause I never had one! All I know is that in the comics the toa used no good! The aforementioned moms are Cahdok and Gahdok, Ah, not that one, that's slightly different Cahdok and Gahdok are the Bohrok Queens. They're like the alien queen in Aliens, other very much. This comic book insert says they're twins works... They have all the powers of the Bohrok, and to each other.......... just like lesbians! When I was four I thought they were dinosaurs, life itself. And now I'm an ADULT and I can EXPENSE THE dinosaur bug moms!!! Bam, here they are! Easily the most chill and pleasant lego build holy cow the mechanism on these is insane... When you squeeze the handle, their necks extend, open. But if it extends too far , the jaw gear This can be used to attack a toa, OR to play as the Rahi. When this pin is pulled out by the jaws of the mechanism in place. Just like les-- Back in the story, the very MOMENT the toa they IMMEDIATELY get their butts handed to They can't use their elemental powers inside exo toa basically useless because MOSTLY all And then they never use the Exo Toa suits Okay, so, all the new gear isn't enough Maybe the toa can have some more character powers to defeat the queens but... Gosh darn it, character growth doesn't sell We're 8 months into the year are there aren't UNACCEPTABLE! Everyone knows only NEW PLASTIC can defeat FOUR YEAR OLD ME DEMANDS NEW PLASTIC!!!! After vaguely trapping the Bohrok Queens with rumble and the toa all sink into freaky tubes Remember protodermis, the thing I didn't Well you're in luck, cause I'm still not The protodermis painfully (I assume) mutates YES! YESSS! You know what this means right???? THAT'S RIGHT, THE BIONICLE NIKE SNEAKERS!!! I wanted them, I wanted the nike sneakers But nah, actually it's new toys. Lookit these guys and their sick gains. New versions of their Kanohi masks, silver legs and bi-lateral symmetry! And of course they have brand new toa weapon-- Toa tools! Sorry! They're tools! The Toa Nuva have all your favorite kind of And of course.....SWORDS! And then Pohatu's got little claws. lil grabbers Unlike the almost entirely new builds of the as the Toa Mata, except in a lot of ways they're The builds are more homogeneous; gone are There's a little variety with Kopaka having but INCLUDING masks it only took 15 new pieces Is that kind of lazy? A little. Did I care at ALL as a kid? Not at all. I IMMEDIATELY didn't care about the Toa They just looked so much more MANLY and COOL, The Nuva gearboxes were exactly the same so they still managed to create a cool new gimmick The gimmick is EXTREME SPORTS!!! Skiing! Lavaboarding!! Paragliding!! Chainsaw...feet...zooming... Good-swimming...! *Laughing* "I love that line" Chainsaw feet zooming? The tools attach to their feet using just actually pretty effective as an element of And although there are a lot of reused pieces, of canister sets as the previous year while And from a role-play perspective it made sense Mata figures since they WERE just upgraded Makes a lot more sense than the Mistika Don't know what's going on there. (We do a little bit of ignitian arcing) Now in my opinion the Toa Nuva designs haven't cause the mask designs are kind of messy and the typical action figures. The Toa Mata look like absolute freaks, but It almost makes you forget that they don't This opinion is probably mostly nostalgia Just wait until I talk about the Ignition I'm so ready to make people mad at me! *laughing* People already hate me enough for know all this about Bionicle and I've done all this research, but I just forgot Pohatu's name and didn't look it up. Yeah that's a likely story. The sales tactic of the Bohrok Invasion is OBVIOUS. Lego was obviously leveraging the threat of evil domination you say it but to a kid that's true! I wanted to buy the Bohrok toys so they could bad guys to WIN! But that was the narrative and I was immersed sold the effect they were going for in the story. The bohrok are so well designed that they The play-feel supports the storytelling even informs the play. And because I was immersed, I wanted more a Bohrok swarm like the story! But ultimately, even kids have an innate sense We like the toa, we like the matoran, and even if the bad guys are cool. And we were kept in that place of vague kid-story-fear and we could finally beat the bad guys! Lookit, look, the bohrok totally can't do nah, they're too good! Is it a LITTLE bit cruel to leverage the innate to impressionable, manipulatable kids? Maybe. When it comes to marketing to kids, it's good branding and immersive storytelling, giving their lives and souls to [insert company name here]. Sure, in this context buying the new toys feels win, and it's very materialistic and consumeristic But it would be a compelling story even if It's the tinker bell effect, where the good And ultimately, the tinker bell effect only And I think that's pretty cool actually. I like the round bonkles! I give the round bonkles a thumbs up! I'd like to hear if your experience with story I presented here, or if you were just Bohrok win! CLEAN IT ALL!' Or if you just think I should be nicer to 'His name is Pohatu!' Also, you can support my Patreon right now Gahdok figure for the first time from a PREVIOUSLY exclusive video content. Thanks for watching, this is Jett Kuso, and