I don't know about this is truly satisfying; I mean that is why I have And in case you are completely confused, then let store where you can find the newest, weirdest But then again there is also lots of this video series I test interesting looking should check them out or simply ignore them. have a look at the products that did not quite fit decluter my AliExpress Drawer, but you also get an Let's get started! by Ground News, more about them later. electric hand drill grinder that In episode 3 of this show I actually made fun of that it is actually useful, so I had to test it. your drill bits are getting dull or damaged So by attaching a drill to the gadget, giving it all a go, it supposedly sharpens it. the microscope, let me firstly say that using drill bits from 2mm up to 12.5mm change the grinding wheel within 1 minute, nice. worked and made the drill bit sharper which that it is not suitable for hardened drill bits. course does not work for all my drill bits; Next we got this USB Data Cable Tester here To use it, you have to firstly supply your to be tested USB cable between Then some LEDs in the middle light up, basically uninterrupted connection between both sides. your cables are broken. me before, that you were using a USB cable and then you can also use this board to easily find For these two purposes definitely a handy not give you additional information for USB-C for me Mini USB is also missing here. I would still recommend this board. are these magnetic Pogo pin connectors I got interested in them because joining two PCBs I mean you can of course use other connector And at first sight, the quality is very you can not reverse the polarity because of the magnets and you get the exact mechanical And of course this solution works But I was wondering how much To find that out I simply let more and more voltage drop across it which gave That is 5 times higher than the resistance probably use it for 5 times less current So all in all very happy with these connectors And If you are like me and love technology Now I rarely have non electronics sponsors on because I really like what they're doing. NASA engineer gathers all the worlds This week for example, scientists designed into drinking water! And I can access more Some sources claim it was inspired by Sci-fi movie on the benefits of letting astronauts roam longer. Solar Power to stay up to date on the industry covering with their 'blind spot feature' go to ground dot news slash greatscott or link for 40% off unlimited access. to the next product which is this BM6 Battery Such a product mainly gets used for a car battery my battery broke twice inside my old car here and hours during winter definitely sucks. voltage and getting notified about abnormal To test this, I simply attached the circuit to the plus and minus pole, installed everything and then went for a test ride. was happy to see that it tracked everything know that cranking worked just fine as So at first sight I was super happy with this my power supply also triggered the alarm. demand will only drain your battery completely in the reverse voltage protection works and good and I got to say that I was very pleased. app gathers GPS data from you to for example seems harmless at first, but then you read a But don't sweat it because you meaning I can fully recommend this product. IC tester that you can get for around 25EUR. a box full of 74 and 40 series logic ICs. different functions and I think nowadays they But of course it sucks when one of these to find the problem, not realizing And that is where this tester can supposedly help. closer look at the user interface I mean you simply choose the IC number, And after finding out how to correctly quickly found out that it works like advertised. all 74 and 40 logic ICs are in its database. you are working regularly with logic ICs. this Tang Nano 9K FPGA that I got in combination That is certainly a rather low price when it comes FPGAs are different than Microcontrollers tons of logic blocks inside the IC. and also different to program. business because of the included HDMI connector. I followed a well written tutorial given some LEDs which worked out just fine. of resources available online to But since my review time is limited here, I was the display and HDMI connector available And when we consider that there already I feel like this could be a really Moving on to this round digital tape measure Initially I got intrigued by it because the to measure stuff seemed rather odd. like that this thing works pretty accurate just fine as well as all buttons and modes. just seems more time consuming and cumbersome I can only really see its use which I honestly never wanted to measure. manual is only in Chinese and the user interface to use which makes the manual mandatory. since I don't see the point of using And that brings us to the last product which looks but it actually comes with a protection PCB on its After loading it up with 4 18650 Lithium Ion we basically got a 12V battery This is definitely a quicker solution adding a protection circuit. Well, to find that out I had a look wrote down the most important ones to test. super capacitors to find out whether discharge protection works, which they both did. kicked in at 6A, lovely. that everything is perfect. keep in mind is that this protection circuit meaning that overtime their voltage can drift pack before the overvoltage protection kicks in. here which are connected to each cell connector and use a suitable charger Besides that it is also worth mentioning kind of a big voltage drop when drawing above 3A. certainly recommend this thing. this special 10th episode and I am happy to As always I hoped you enjoyed this video and you well as my usual electronics videos. subscribe and hit the notification bell.