Hello and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. In this lesson, we're going to learn how to play a very important, very special chord called the I chord. It's hands down the single most important chord in all of music. So it's no wonder we call it the I chord. Let's come to the piano to check it out. Now remember, a chord is a group of two or more notes. Like I can take C and G, when I play it together, that's a chord. A I chord is built using three specific notes. DO, MI, and SO Which you may recognize as the three notes of a major arpeggio. Sometimes in music we call a three-note chord like this a triad. So we could call this a C major triad, and we can play all three at the same time with one hand. Doesn't that have a great sound? I love that sound. So if we're in the key of C major, a I chord uses C, E, and G, but what if we're in the key of D major? Well let's find DO, MI, and SO in D major. DO would now be on D. We skip E up to F-sharp for MI, and SO is on A, and that makes DO MI SO, and we can play them all together. That's a D major I chord. By the way, the symbol for a I chord is simply which looks like a capital letter i to us. You might have seen roman numerals on fancy clocks, or as part of movie titles. I don't know why, but it's just tradition in music to So remember, in music a capital i means the I chord. Now, to practice the technique of playing the I chord, I'd like you to find a flat surface to practice on. So, I've closed my piano lid. If your piano doesn't have a lid, you can do it on a table or any flat surface, but I want it to be a solid flat surface. And take your fingers 1 and 5, thumb and pinky, and just touch them like we did when we were learning how to play a two note chord. Finger 1 and 5, just touch, and then release. Touch, and then release. Remember that our finger 1 plays near the tip just pointing sideways like this, and your finger 5 should also play near the tip. Not flat. Don't let this part of your finger 5 touch. It's just near the tip. Touch, and then release. Touch, and then release. Now, Let's try touching with fingers 1 and 5, and now add finger 3. So you're letting your fingers 2 and 4 just float gently in the air, and you're Touch, release, touch, release. Now, a brief warning: If you have small hands, if you're five or six years old, this may be an exercise that's a little bit advanced for you. Kind of like Legos when I used to see them for ages seven plus. This exercise I would if a five-year-old plays with age seven and up Legos, it's not like You can definitely try this and maybe you'll love it, maybe it will work to skip this and try this exercise later. Let's try one more time with fingers 1 and 5 touch on the flat surface you're on, and then add finger 3 so now all three fingers, 1, 3, and 5 are touching, and then touch and release. Touch, then you always want to relax at the end by floating up, release. Touch, release, good. Okay, now let's try with our left hand. We're going to use fingers 1 and 5 for starters. Just let them touch. Remember to keep the thumb near the side tip, and finger 5 also near the tip. Touch, release, touch, release. Okay, now let's try fingers 1 and 5, and then we'll add in finger 3. So now we have three fingers touching. 1, 3, and 5. Practice Touch, release, and your fingers 2 and You're only feeling the surface with fingers 1, 3, and 5. Release. Good, that's something you can practice any time during the week. When you're at the dinner table, or riding in the car on your lap. with the left hand and with the right hand, or both. Okay, let's say you're six and under, and you're really dying to try this. Well, I'll tell you a secret. When my boys were five and six, I would sometimes buy them toys that said seven plus. It's okay. If you want to try this, you can try a modification at first, like, maybe at first. That's a modification for smaller hands. Fingers 1 and 3 by themselves. So just try modifying it first, fingers 1 and 3 by themselves. Try that, or fingers 3 and 5 by themselves. And then when you're ready, you'll know So, let's try playing the I chord in C major on our piano now. So you'll take your fingers 1, 3, and 5, and just touch them on C, E, and G. You'll let fingers 2 and 4 float up just slightly, comfortably, and then when you're ready, use arm weight to drop into those keys. And then always end by floating up the wrist. Play Try that a few times. Remember, you can modify if you want to with Now, if your fingers aren't quite cooperating, be patient It may take time, but try and listen that all the Hear how the notes were kind of bleh? They were staggered. You want to time it so the chord sounds solid. All three notes play Keep them right in contact with the keys, and then use arm weight to drop then release. Pause the video and practice just a few times on your own with the I chord using right hand only in C major, and then press play to go on. Now let's try to play the C major I chord with our left hand. Let's go ahead and place fingers 5, 3, and 1 on C, E, and G. Let your fingers come in contact, float up fingers 2 and 4, and then drop and release with the float up with the wrist. Try this with me. Just drop and release, drop and release, and again listen for all the notes to sound exactly together. You want this solid clean sound. Pause the video once again to work on left hand alone C major triad. Remember, you can always modify to just two notes if your hand is not quite ready to tackle the three note challenge. Pause to work on your own, then press play to go on. Okay, let's try a D major I chord now. With the right hand touch fingers 1, 3, and 5 on D F-sharp A. See if we can play that as a chord. The D major triad we can say. Try that a few times. And then when you're ready, try the left hand. If this feels super awkward at first, you are not alone. When you're ready, you can even try it hands Be patient as you master this skill. One more thing I'd like to show you is how you can add triads or this I chord to songs that you've If you look in the Unit 2 Method Book on this you can see these I chord symbols written up above the music. Every time you see the I chord symbol, that's when you'll play a I chord. So hands together it would sound like this: Let's try a little bit together. Don't worry about adding the melody yet. Let's just play the chords with your left hand, and we're going to sing the melody while we play the chords. Get your left hand ready, and we're going to play 1 2, try it with me, go. 1 2 1 2, keep going, 1 2, now let's sing, go. Mouse mousey in the housey, hurry, hurry do or the kitty in the housey, will be chasing you. Run! Okay, so that's one way you can practice at first to get comfortable and then when you're ready, bring the right hand in. Let the right hand play Just like that, and I'll let you figure out the rest. One last way that you can practice with is to try improvising in one hand while you play chords Let's come back to the D major triad. So I'm using D major for my left I just made that up, and you can make up your own melodies too. It's really fun to play around with chords and melodies and So this week whenever you have some free time just on your lap or any flat surface, you can practice touching with fingers 1 3 5, and let that start to feel comfortable, and then on the piano practice some three note triads. The I chord every day, and you'll find that it feels more Great job learning how to play the I chord today. Have lots of fun making music this week, and as How am I supposed to play a three-note chord? But I have lots of teeth!