Did I get ripped off and scammed with my solar? video, where I compared a Tesla Solar Roof to my scammed and ripped off. ... but did I? The critical so let's take a closer look at those one by one. I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by While I see negative comments about solar panels the number of critical comments in my Tesla to be completely honest, I kind of had a most of those off as more fear, uncertainty, all of social media nowadays ... but then to look at this as objectively as I I went through and started grouping what trends I could zero in on to First one up is one I see on all my solar panel only work in certain areas." Things like they don't work on cloudy days, or during the While there is absolute truth to the fact that that doesn't mean that the sun has to electricity. Cloudy and overcast days still overcast days act like a diffuser over a light on an object, the light rays are moving in hit an object. These relatively parallel light ground. Think about standing outside on a sunny if you put a thin layer of diffusion those light rays get refracted and parallel to each other when they hit an at the object from many directions at once. This is what's happening to solar panels on panel isn't as strong, but you can actually generation over the course of the day because the difference in my energy production on but there's still electricity getting generated my data between March 24th and March 30th. overcast or had outright dark gray skies with a storm was starting to move in and we still sunny day. March 28th was a very gloomy, rainy would be a problem if I was offgrid, but could be covered by energy from a battery system The biggest detriment to location is how many each day over the course of year. Here in New low. In the summer time it might average but in the winter it's only 2.99 hours solar production on the fringes though. my solar panel array still produced 748.8 kWh in the cost of the solar panels versus what you'd (and a few other factors). In my case electricity which is about $260 worth of electricity. The second theme that came up was along the isn't worth it." Or that, "the math doesn't up the cost of the loan over time, vs. investing which would save and generate more Before we look at that, there's something else we from today's sponsor, Factor. I'm filming this hungry right now. My schedule is so hectic it's for myself. I was taking shortcuts and eating That's why a year and a half ago I signed up for I've been eating more well rounded meals that been partial to their Calorie Smart and Vegan time to time as a special treat. So for those Gourmet Plus meals. Just like this one. The cook and it came with a delicious side of broccolini. shopping and preparing my own meals. Not only does a quality restaurant take out meal right at home about what I'm eating, and they're delicious. No minutes. Head to FACTOR75.com or click the link your first Factor box and 20% off your next box. off your first box, plus 20% off your next box to Factor and to all of you for supporting the Well, I've dealt with this exact point in my There's something I always say in my videos are right for you other than you. That's not point that it's all about context. How much are installers charging in your area? What incentives What about low or no interest loans? There's so math doesn't work across the board. If anyone is or that they always work financially, you I won't rehash all the math of my previous in there and its all in my previous videos that dive on the investment costs vs. return on my new 5 months with solar, and I'm still living showing real world data of my specific system and for a point of comparison. So check out my old But back to the "if you had just invested your that gets discounted by those types of comments. everyone. For some, like myself, there's also the provide me power in a blackout situation. Instead can act as a solar generator with battery backup. the energy security and independence motivation is true for just wanting to generate electricity be a big enough motivator to justify some but again ... it's all about your personal goals That leads nicely into comment theme #3. there's a seed of truth to that ... although, Bezos over here, but my wife and I are home we built. Homeownership is a major attainable in recent years. And something Where I'd push back on this though is that there low or no interest loans for solar installs. I so please avoid that at all costs, it really of other baggage too, just avoid it. Whether a I just mentioned about costs. You'd have to run the math worked out ... but that's The second thing I'd push back on as far as rich that community solar projects have really been but this can benefit you if you rent, or even install solar on your roof. Basically, which means leasing (or sometimes outright that it produces. This production will which reduces your electricity bill. This is excited because it's accessible to anyone some articles and resources in the description to And staying on the cost issue, that leads me to did do it) myself and it would cost half as much. in the comments from folks detailing how much the costs were dramatically lower than what I've sad, full of regret, but no ... anything but. is going to save a lot of money because the overhead of business that are doing it for personal time. Just like my previous example, not don't feel comfortable working with electrical a lot of value in hiring someone who knows This may not be the best analogy, but it's done that for decades. I build my own gaming day work. If something goes wrong with my Mac, there's a value to not having to troubleshoot PC back to where you bought it from and have them with my custom built PC, I have to troubleshoot be a time sink or a descent into madness because everyone wants to be responsible for their There's value in having a single point of But having said that, the DIY solar what I love about this tech. It's made for not only utilities, but for all of us And finally, the last comment theme actually ripped off because I paid $X where I live." pointed out in the comments, there's some from the comments themselves. "In Europe, a my country a 12 kWp solar system is 6,800 EUR." Even within the US there are dramatic differences paid $55,000 for 17.2 kW, might cost $40,000 in permitting, inspections, there's a whole host hard costs (ie. the hardware and equipment) and marketing overhead of the company doing it For all of you that are in another country, the Australia because ... I'm very jealous of Australia My first thought was, "oh, it's the labor Comparing Australia to Massachusetts (it may but it's 29.4% more expensive to live 40.4% more for groceries and 59.8% The average cost per Watt of solar in Australia system would cost about $17,000 in Australia. living difference, it's still only about $22,000 more expensive here in the US. So if it's Well, it's those soft costs of solar. In permitting and approval process. You can have approval to install the next day. it could take weeks or even months. I've been battery system from the utility. The the more money it ultimately ends up costing. Distilled, that goes into the biggest differences line, the US is working on a standardized which should help to drive down the costs and bureaucracy and permitting/inspection craziness So on that comment theme, yeah, you're compared to some other areas of but again ... it's all about location, ripped off based on my region's average Like I said, solar is a very personal are different. For me, I had zero regrets with but the jury is still out on my new home. I'll be real world data to crunch the final numbers (not But what do you think? If you have solar, or do you feel ripped off? Jump into the listen to my follow up podcast Still TBD Thanks to all my patrons for your continued