Today is the last day I will be working at Ichimasa. Thank you for 40 years! 40 years? I see. 40 years, I guess. A long-established restaurant that has been open for 40 years He's like a parent, isn't he? He's very serious He's got a great personality He's like a Buddha. This is what made him famous, after all. Yes! All right! It's like the shop has been established with this. The boss prepares The boss's final fried chicken The boss's superb pork cutlet bowl Thank you for all your hard work over the years Thank you very much From the opening of the restaurant to the retirement ceremony after closing To the main story June One week before the day of his retirement... Aki Takata City. Yachiyo Town This area is called Mukoyama. Ichimasa founder, Kazumasa Doi Aki Takata City, Hiroshima Prefecture We have a good harvest every year. Bamboo shoots These are shiitake mushrooms This is the fungus. These marks are where we hammer them in Homemade vegetables are served at the restaurant Tomorrow is my birthday How old are you? Well, I wanted to retire That was one of my goals. I thought it would be a bit hard to work on the shop floor any longer I get up at around 5:30 in the morning and go to the shop I was shown around the fields Potato field They come in fives and sixes There are some quite big ones. Look Here you go Make-in We can easily get over 100 kilos. The harvested potatoes are used for potato salad Let's go home It's already It's hard work in the rain It started raining while we were filming Removing the soil from the potatoes in the rain One week later Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture 6:04 Established in 1984 I get up at half past five to prepare the ingredients. This is the last time This is the last day (I'm going to work) I'm a little sad about it, but It's a new beginning. The kitchen has been used carefully for 40 years The second generation, Shimomichi-san, also comes to work Making tamagoyaki dashi eggs grilling the omelette removing the heat and shaping it The chef is preparing 5kg of meat next to him. The blade undulates like this. It means to straighten it out. After straightening the blade, With years of experience, I can get it exactly right at 100g. I pound the meat. salt and pepper The preparation of the pork cutlet meat is finished The boss That's his daily routine The staff also bought some! Excuse me If I was going to run a shop, my dream was to make it so well-known that it would be called an old shop I thought I had to make a shop that I could continue for a long time. The second generation gets to work on the ramen The bones that have been prepared The chicken bones are added Making the soup Kombu Put it on the fire Prepare the ramen bowl From next month, it's just me again. I have to take full responsibility. In the hospitality business, if you make one mistake, it can ruin everything and the lives of the employees. Dad, you've got to relax and take it easy we wouldn't be able to make spaghetti without this shop Spaghetti with a hint of aonori seaweed Making breakfast Make fried eggs Add water and steam-fry Making fried meat Breakfast is complete (we were also treated to some by the staff) The seasoning goes well with the rice. A quick energy boost before work! Preparing the rice Cooking 20 sho (1 sho = 180g) of rice a day Rice cooking has started! Good morning I'm sorry I can't greet you. I've come to see you. I'm sorry to have bothered you. Thank you for your help. Hello I'd also like to thank the suppliers Today, I'm going to buy udon, soba and ramen. I'll buy noodles only, about 80 to 100 yen worth, every day. Take care of yourself. See you again. Here you go. Thanks. Add the dried bonito shavings to the boiling soup Remove the bones Soup is ready! Ichimasa's specialty! Preparing the fried chicken Chicken thigh meat You have to be thinking about it all the time, otherwise when the time comes you'd be stuck in place I've been able to keep going without taking a day off. I don't really feel it, but I still had the energy, though. Cutting one sheet into six pieces The preparation of the large amount of fried chicken continues until before opening time. The food vendor The master, it's the last one That's right, it's the last one. We'll go and eat it later. Ah Please drop by Okay, I'll come back later. Thank you. Cut the omelette once it has cooled down. The omelette is complete. Raise the shutter 8:47 Cutting the roast pork Cutting each piece carefully The pork is cut into even thicknesses The rice is cooked Making onigiri Shake konbu Onigiri is complete Making fried rice Fried rice is ready Flowers arrive to celebrate his retirement This person is a jack-of-all-trades Thank you for your hard work, Master! The Master continues to prepare the 28kg of chicken meat Checking each one for foreign objects You wouldn't want any foreign objects in there, would you? That's why we're doing this work. Yes, heave-ho Finished cutting up the 28kg chicken thighs Making the marinade for the fried chicken soy sauce pepper ginger potato starch Finishing the preparation of the last fried chicken of his life (Staff) Is fried chicken really that special? It's special, isn't it? This is what made it famous, after all. Because this sells out in a day. It's like the shop has become established. Making fried chicken Crispy fried chicken is complete Making a fried chicken bento A female customer receives her bento Preparing freshly harvested potatoes Finishing cutting the potatoes We get an order for a bento box. Fried chicken bento. One in ten minutes. 10:00 Opening of the udon side The boss 10:00 - 20:00 Parking available 7 seats at the counter The daily special on the last day of the owner's reign "Fried chicken" Today's daily special side dish Daily set meal 650 yen Ramen 700 yen New menu 550 yen bento Tonkatsu bento 690 yen Fried chicken bento 670 yen Customers arrive as soon as the shop opens Making the ramen set meal The crispy fried chicken is fried The daily special fried chicken is ready! Making the ramen boiled bean sprouts noodles bean sprouts, roast pork, spring onion, pickled bamboo shoots ramen is complete A regular customer who has been coming for 30 years He's a super regular customer (Staff) What is it that you like about this place It's delicious The master's personality is also a factor. It's delicious. Just like always. The ramen set meal goes well with rice! After paying the bill, I went to see the boss. Thank you very much. I'll be back again soon. I'll be back to buy more. Thank you very much Ordering a bento Making a fried chicken bento for children Cutting it into pieces so that even children can eat it easily Broccoli A side dish that will make your child very happy, with lots of food The children's fried chicken bento is complete! The children are excited to eat their children's bento! The man in glasses orders a pork cutlet bowl. The egg Thank you for waiting. That's the katsudon, right? Thank you very much. The fried chicken bento is a large portion, and The nori bento is complete. Thank you. Please come again. A man in an apron comes to the store making a yakiniku bento the savory smell of yakiniku whets the appetite Yakiniku bento complete! Thank you! I can't wait to eat the Ichimasa bento... Preparations for the opening of Ichimasa Ramen 10:30 Opening of the ramen side 9 seats at the counter Soy sauce, salt, chili pepper, pepper, sauce As soon as the restaurant opens, one of the parking spaces is taken. A man in short sleeves comes in The ramen is made The ramen is ready! Four people with their families come in Daily special set meal: pork cutlet and curry udon noodles with broth Daily special fried chicken Ramen noodles ready Green tea soba So, this is green tea soba, right? This is cold dashi. Finally, we'll make cutlet curry. Freshly fried pork cutlet Pork cutlet curry is complete The four family members eat in silence. Two men and two women come in. They order a ramen set meal and ramen. The ramen for two people is ready. Two men and two women order the daily set meal. Freshly fried fried chicken The daily set meal is ready Making zaru soba zaru soba tonkatsu is coming! Running the shop while also preparing the lunch boxes The pork cutlet lunch box is complete The bento is completed quickly. Thank you. Take care. - Yes. Thank you Two new customers have arrived 11:09 Katsudon complete Thank you for waiting. Making ramen bean sprouts roasted pork and bean sprouts Ramen is now ready! Thank you for waiting for your ramen! A new car has pulled up. The ramen set is ordered. The ramen is ready! The soy sauce pork bone soup is delicious! It's delicious! A man in a white shirt wanders in Ordering the daily set meal Fried chicken is ready Ramen set complete The super-cheap daily set meal is selling like hotcakes Daily set meal 650 yen Ichimasa's number one popular item! The super delicious fried chicken The flavor soaks in and it's really rich The crispy meat juice just oozes out Fried chicken that you can enjoy for decades Once you start eating, you can't stop... It's the daily set meal, 650 yen. A man in a suit comes in making a pork cutlet bento the pork cutlet bento is complete You can enjoy Ichimasa's taste at work too! The popular pork cutlet bento! The rush to take home the food never stops... Ichimasa's bento boxes are also very popular! Hello! Oh! It's been a long time. Hey A senior cook They came to celebrate the master's retirement Ramen set meal. Then, two of those. I didn't think you'd come. That's good. It was worth going out for drinks. It's true Making ramen Ramen is finished It's delicious (Staff) What kind of person is the boss? He's a diligent person, and he's very enthusiastic about research I've been making ramen for 11 years. He said he wanted to make ramen, so we did it together. He brought the soup and noodles to my shop and we made them over and over again customers keep coming in without a break a regular customer who sent flowers for the shop I was taken care of at my old workplace for a long time. I ordered a take-out lunch box. making a take-out katsudon closing with egg Oyakodon Super Katsudon Rush! Colorful bento boxes are being made one after another. The half-boiled egg is irresistible. Making a hamburger bento Hamburger bento The bento is complete! The bento you eat in between work is exquisite Thank you very much. Thank you. I got a beautiful flower. No, no. Thank you I'll come again I'll come again next time. Good luck. See you later. Yossha! The second generation takes over the business The non-stop business continues Thank you very much Regulars from the neighborhood also crowd into the shop on the last day Ramen Chashumen 800 yen Simple is best! Hiroshima ramen Soy sauce pork bone soup The moist, seasoned pork chashu is very meaty Crunchy bean sprouts The medium-thick straight noodles are delicious when they're mixed in with the soup! The noodles are so delicious that you can't stop eating them and finish the whole bowl in no time. I finished the whole bowl in one go. I'm also buying some fried chicken to take home. I'm going to savor it. I look forward to working with you again. I look forward to working with you too. The fried chicken and ramen are delicious! It's quick, cheap and tasty! It's fried chicken! It's fried chicken, but it's not greasy. It's juicy. It's still delicious even after a while The boss has a really good personality Like the fact that he gave me advice (there was) Thank you for the meal Thank you for the meal A supplier we have been doing business with for a long time comes to the store making sukiyaki rice bowl egg Sukiyaki rice bowl A filling meal that will satisfy the stomachs of hard-working men! (Staff) What kind of person is the boss? In a nutshell, he's like a parent, isn't he? Sukiyaki rice bowl I can taste the home-like flavor I'll have the sukiyaki rice bowl and the ramen as a set. Today is a special occasion, so I want to eat this at least once a week. It's really delicious. I love it! I finished it all in one go! Thank you for the meal A hearty meal fills the stomach and the heart. A large bowl of zaru soba continuing to fry the fried chicken the four people from the supplier come to the store again They order a ramen set meal for four people. Fried chicken All of you food suppliers I'm so into it, I'm slurping up the ramen The delivery company we've been working with for 20 years (Staff) How did you do it 20 years ago? We were together. We'd bring home mountains of fried chicken In the evening, I would take home fried chicken I would watch her deep-frying like that even now. 12:17 It was delicious. Thank you for the meal. Thank you See you again! It was a moment of relief to enjoy the usual taste. The parking lot quickly filled up, and two men came to the store making fried rice roasted pork Fried rice is ready! The classic combination of ramen and fried rice is also very popular! The ramen rush has been going on since the restaurant opened! The ramen and fried rice from my childhood memories Customers arrive by bicycle to get their katsudon Regular customers who are Ichimasa fans arrive in droves They immediately order the pork cutlet bowl. They make two pork cutlet bowls. Simmering Katsudon is ready Katsudon 720 yen The runny egg and the broth are delicious! The hot rice and juicy, crispy cutlet are delicious! The white rice is too good. Finished in 5 minutes! 12:37 Staff) Boss, it's almost time to close up. Yeah, that's right. Tonkatsu set meal The food is delivered to a regular customer who has been coming for over 20 years Thank you for the delicious food. Not at all. Well, you can come here sometimes. The boss is kind and thoughtful. He's a good person. The master and his wife were the first customers here. It's been a long time. I like this place. It's soft and delicious Thank you for 40 years The greengrocer we've been using for a long time The morning supplier has come again Yes, I'll put the ramen in the set. The final day of the master I want to express my gratitude for all these years. I'm making take-out pork cutlet curry. Yes, I'm sorry to have kept you waiting. A customer who used to work here as a part-timer has come in. I used to work here. (Staff) Really? Is that so? It's been about three years. It's been 40 years already. That's a long time! I'm quitting my job. A present for the master I'll make a fried chicken set meal Fried chicken is ready The fried chicken set meal is finished first miso soup fried chicken set meal 820 yen Ichimasa's specialty: 5 pieces of fried chicken! Addictive fried chicken that's so meaty you can eat as many as you like! The fried chicken for takeaway is ready! Thank you, Father. Enjoy the taste of Ichimasa's takeaway To celebrate the master's retirement He orders a ramen, fried chicken set, and The ramen is completed Making the pork cutlet bowl Pork cutlet bowl complete The katsudon has arrived! The supplier we've had a relationship with for 40 years The boss is retiring, so The boss is like a Buddha. How is the taste of the pork cutlet bowl? It's really delicious! It's crispy and delicious. 14:16 It's a 40 year anniversary. Thank you. The master sees them off, holding a bouquet of flowers The son and grandson come to the store The family also rushes to the store to celebrate. You're very popular. At the end I thought that myself 15:00 Closing time While the master is closing up shop The history of Ichimasa Family A gift of sake from my grandson We can drink it when we get back We're staying the night Let's have a good drink tonight The celebration party has started! From the grandchildren This is a collection of messages from all the grandchildren. Thank you for holding this celebration for me. Today, I will be leaving the Ichimasa construction site I came back after 15 years in America I wondered what I should do so I started this Ichimasa I look forward to working with you in the future. Everyone is calm and and the work is progressing well I am truly grateful that we have been able to get this far Thank you very much. After graduating, you went to work on a ship, right? I think I was 24. I went to America. I started a restaurant that served Oriental food I started a shop that sold that kind of thing. I had a child in Japan. I started the shop when I came back to Japan. I've done everything by myself. (Staff) Did you ever think about quitting? I didn't want to lose it The amount I make increases every year. After all, in the hospitality industry I think that you need to have a sales ability Even at the first shop There's tuna, right? But when you open it, it's not very good, and there are all sorts of things If you buy a whole case, you can keep it there The wholesaler will take care of it for you, and keep it there It's in the fridge, right? When it's like that, you get stronger, right? (Staff) Even with this shop now it's the same. I think that human kindness is the most important thing. If you don't do that, I don't think the customers will come. I don't think I've done it justice either. I thought, "Well, I guess that's about it." The result was satisfying. Yeah. After the retirement ceremony &quot;The most important thing is the softness of the human heart" The 40 years we've all walked together