This video is sponsored by Squarespace. A year ago today, I released one of my most Informatio. Of the over-40 videos I've released since continually request a follow up to. I don't know why. Think of all the productive things you could this. [Austin sips his coffee.] Alright... let's get to it. [MUSIC] The study of the relative spatial arrangement is called stereochemistry. The average calorie count in a single serving In the year 2014, Vizio recalled 245,000 E-Series sold for anywhere between $370 and $450. The problem? The television stands had a tendency to snap. Telephone numbers in Kazakhstan are under the country calling code +7. According to a study based on 2010 census in America, while Detroit, MI consistently For those interested, Google Maps estimates you're wanting to avoid toll roads). John L. Sullivan was a 19th century Irish-American of bare-knuckle boxing under the London Prize &quot;The Boston Strong Boy." The Taming of the Shrew is a comedy by William between 1590 and 1592. In the United States, the first major radio was aired in 1937 on the NBC Blue Network. The Spring of Khosrow was an ancient Persian feet. This is a shag area rug that is available It covers 35 square feet, and can be purchased One of the oldest typefaces still in regular year 1530, and to this day is still widely This stock footage clip is entitled &quot;Farming Along an Open Field at Sunset&quot;, and was produced It has a total runtime of 30 seconds, but help the overall pacing of this video. Lewis Wilson was the first actor to play Batman theatrical serial from Columbia Pictures. Crying usually gives you a runny nose because flow into your tear ducts and drain into your The first expedition to reach the South Pole Amundsen. On December 14, 1911, he beat a British party arrive five weeks later. The Canon AE-1 is one of the most reliable It has a small battery compartment in the light meter. The Baldknobbers is the longest-running variety Door knobs were first manufactured in the Simon Says is a children's game for 3 or to the other players which are to be followed with the preface "Simon says". If an action WITHOUT this preface is performed game. A similar permission game is "Mother May forward or backward to a finish line. Rather than being eliminated for a mistake, backward, and is allowed to continue playing Canadian Geese have an average lifespan of This is Alan Sheperd. At age 47, he became the fifth, the oldest, Moon. During his mission, he hit two golf balls In 2003, New Zealand issued 50 cent pieces and Aragorn to celebrate The Lord of the Rings By the same token, the St. Louis Browns were as the Milwaukee Brewers. In 1906 they moved to St. Louis and played and changing their name to the Orioles. While friendly, Cocker Spaniels tend to have dog breeds. They are known to have a wide variety of orthopaedic liver disease, and epilepsy. For a richer flavor when making cookies, try baking! It helps the moisture and fat spread evenly give your cookies a nice, soft center. This is the Shure SM58. It's a professional dynamic cardiod microphone It's the best selling microphone in the world, ever made. Seriously... you can like, run it over with While shooting THIS video, I accidentally It's okay though, because I bought this replacement, harm when used in California. The Department of Transportation recommends last between 3 and 6 seconds. This is a doodle I received from a guy named by a flood of letters sent to me from viewers Two weeks in, and I have to say, he was right The Little Drummer Boy was a Top 40 hit every Yamaha Drums is a subsidiary of the Yamaha They manufacture acoustic and electronic drum currently retails for over $3,000 USD. In the pre-WWII era, gas stations had poor Gas pumps contained lighted globes on top while driving at night. George Lucas's very first movie was a 1-minute You can find a great breakdown of it from the link in this video's description. Pressing and holding the space bar while using quickly navigate to a specific place in a Most Draino products are not recommended for the chemical reaction can crack the porcelain major leaks in the PVC used in most pipes. Also, for those curious, PVC stands for polyvinyl Just throwing that out there. Lincoln Logs, the children's toy that consists small forts and other structures, were invented who was the second son of the well known architect Prepackaged salads tend to keep in most refrigerators visit in the United States can range from The most expensive Beanie Baby ever sold at edition created to raise money for The Diana, her untimely death. It snagged $10,000, and another one is currently $600,000. The National Weather Service will occasionally What's the difference? A Tornado Watch can last for up to 6 hours, the area. During that time frame, it is advisable to A Tornado Warning means that a tornado has and shelter needs to be taken immediately. These can last for up to an hour. You aren't JUST getting bigger... the candy Shrinkflation is the seedy practice of subtly or raising its original price. In 2010, Kraft reduced its 200g Toblerone In March 2014, Coca-Cola reduced the size What are YOU gonna do about it? Along the same lines, "Honey I Shrunk The Moranis, one of my favorite actors. Fast Travel, a video game mechanic where a two previously discovered locations without was likely first introduced in 1981's Ultima, To this day, it continues to be a controversial robs players of a game world's sense of quests. Silhouette Animation is a variant of Cutout and only visible as silhouettes. For an example, you can see the 2000 French video I produced in 2019 on how to survive A philanthropist is a person who seeks to generously donating money to good causes. A philanderer is a man who frequently enters committing to a serious relationship. It is VERY important not to get these two The first Super Bowl was played on January the Green Bay Packers. Nobody at the time realized how big the game CBS wiped the videotapes of the broadcast. A complete recording of the game was thought NFL announced they had combed the earth and sources. This found footage was meticulously stitched in its entirety 49 years after the original W-who cares who won? Moving on! Noh is one of the oldest theatre traditions Japan. A highly rigid and traditional art, it gave variant featuring contemporary stories and Until the 1680s, real weapons were used in Available in this video's description is a and I highly recommend you take the time to It is estimated that windmills kill about There are only two bathrooms on the International The urine of both the crewmembers and the the drinking water supply. [Audience lets out an 'ewwww' sound.] &quot;Wild Bill&quot; Curry was one of the first professional The first text message was sent on December The average person has about 10,000 taste or so. In his younger years, Herbert Hoover lived on behalf of the Chinese Engineering and Mining While there, the couple learned how to speak Years later, when he served as the 31st President private conversations in Mandarin without Sprinkles last for about 3-5 years after the Of the 413,752 votes cast in the 1926 Nebraska candidates. Over a 78 and a half year lifetime, the average The 2017-2018 model of the popular Titleist Starting with iOS7, the iPhone's clock icon An average of 21 games were released every game digital distribution service by the company For those interested, it was 45 degrees Fahrenheit According to the National Highway Traffic occur between 3 and 6pm, due to the high volume Saturday is considered the most dangerous The Columbia Pictures film &quot;To Sir, With Love&quot; Speaking of which, the planet Jupiter has The New York Knicks had a record of 43-39 They finished 3rd in the NBA's Eastern Division. About 14.5 billion spam emails are sent every They account for 45% of total emails, and and a half million sent. The bicycle was invented in 1817. On February 7th of that same year, Baltimore street lamps. After both players take a single turn in a setups. After the second pair of turns, the number the number increases to 121 million. The Polaroid Corporation hit peak its revenue the year 1991. Mississippi's state flower is the magnolia, conducted by the company Crayola in both the color was... ...blue! Six other shades of blue finished in the Top periwinkle, denim, and blizzard blue. Whew... I hope that was everything you've ever dreamed Maybe you like my channel, maybe you hate you anything. Here's some information that IS worth knowing. Do you want to build a website? Then you need to check out this video's sponsor, Squarespace provides you an easy way to quickly You start by selecting from one of their many provide you the tools to shape it for YOUR So, if you're a musician or podcaster, Audio If you run multiple social media accounts, a single message across several platforms If you run a business, their Online Storefront You can get started TODAY by going to squarespace.com If you find that you like the experience, go to squarespace.com/austinmcconnell to get domain.