All right. I'd like to thank you for leaving 'crazy So, I thought -- I was trying to think what's say that can actually be helpful and useful And I thought, perhaps tell the story of how How did these things happen? And maybe there are lessons there. I often find myself wondering, how did this When I was young, I didn't really know what People kept asking me. But then eventually, I thought the idea of And the reason I thought that was because said that "A sufficiently advanced technology And that's really true. If you go back say, 300 years, the things at stake for. Being able to fly. That's crazy. Being able to see over long distances, being the Internet as a group mind of sorts, and instantly from almost anywhere on the earth. This stuff that really would be magic - that In fact, I think it actually goes beyond that, for granted today that weren't even imagined realm of magic. So, it actually goes beyond that. So I thought, well if I can do some of those then that is like magic and that would be I always had an existential crisis, because all mean?' Like what's the purpose of things? And I came to the conclusion that if we can can do things that expand the scope and scale to ask the right questions and become more And that's the only way forward. So, I studied physics and business, because you need to know how the universe works and And you also need to be able to bring a lot something. Because it's very difficult to do something So, I originally came out to California to density of electric vehicles - basically capacitor that could serve as an alternative And that was in 1995. That's also when the Internet started to And I thought well I could either pursue this the possible outcomes, which is always tricky, of it. So, I decided to drop out. Fortunately, we're past graduation, so, to you. And I did some Internet stuff, you know. I've done a few things here and there. One of which is PayPal. Maybe it's helpful to say, one of the things PayPal was how it started. Because initially - the initial thought of financial services, so if you have one needs could be seamlessly integrated and works And we had a little feature, which was through Whenever we'd show the system off to someone, of financial services, which is quite difficult Nobody was interested. Then we showed people e-mail payments, which So, I think it's important to take feedback You want to be as closed-loop as possible. So, we focused on e-mail payments and tried And that's what really got things to take But, if we hadn't responded to what people successful. So, it's important to look for things like and you correct your prior assumptions. Going from PayPal, I thought well, what are to most affect the future of humanity? It really wasn't from the perspective of, which is okay, but it was really 'what do of humanity.' So, the biggest terrestrial problem we've But the production and consumption of energy If we don't solve that in this century, And the other one being the extension of life So that's the basis for -- the latter is basis for Tesla and SolarCity. When I started SpaceX, initially, I thought a rocket company. I wasn't that crazy. But then, I thought, well, what is a way to That was actually my initial goal. I thought well if we could do a low-cost mission would land with seeds in dehydrated nutrient And you'd have this great short of money The public tends to respond to precedence And this would be the first life on Mars and as we know. And I thought well that would get people really So obviously the financial outcome from such So, anything better than that was on the upside. So, I went to Russia three times to look at was the best deal. And I can tell you it was very weird going rocket forces and saying, 'I'd like to keep the nuke.' That's a lot more. That was 10 years ago, I guess. They thought I was crazy, but I did have money. So, that was okay. After making several trips to Russia, I came initial impression was wrong about - because not enough will to explore and expand beyond But I came to the conclusion that was wrong. In fact, there's plenty of will, particularly Because United States is a nation of explorers, the world. I think the United States is really a distillation But if people think it's impossible, then federal budget, then they're not going to So, after my third trip, I said, okay, what the space transport problem and started SpaceX. And this was against the advice of pretty One friend made sit down and watch a bunch Let me tell you he wasn't far wrong. It was tough going there in the beginning. Because I never built anything physical. I mean I built like a model rocket as a kid But I never had a company that built any physical. So, I had to figure out how to do all these people. And we did all that, and then, failed three It was tough, tough going. Because the thing about a rocket is, the passing And you don't get to actually test the rocket in. So, I think to the best analogy for rocket complicated beta software, you can't run can't run it on the computer, it's intended For the first time you put it all together no bugs. That's basically the essence of it. So, we missed the mark there. Think about a rocket, the passing grade is And you don't get to actually test the rocket in. So, I think the best analogy for rocket engineers software, you can't run the software as on the computer, it's intended to run on, it must run with no bugs. That's basically the essence of it. So, we missed the mark there. The first launch, I was picking up bits of sad. And we learned with each successive flight. And we were able to, eventually with the fourth That was also with the last bit of money that Thank goodness that happened. I think the saying is 'fourth time is the So, we got the Falcon 1 to orbit. And then, began to scale it up to the Falcon thrust, it's around a million pounds of We managed to get that to orbit, and then was able to dock and returned to earth from Thanks. That was a white-knuckle event. It is a huge relief. I still can't believe it actually happened. But there's lot more that must happen beyond civilization and ultimately a multi-planet And that's something I think it's vitally And I hope that some of you will participate Because it's just really one of the most extension of consciousness. It's worth noting as I'm sure people are years, but civilization in terms of having being generous. So, it's really somewhat of a tenuous existence on earth. I'm actually fairly optimistic about the I don't want to people sort of have the die. I think things will most likely be okay for Not for sure, but, most likely. But even if it's 99% likely, a 1% chance to ensure that we have -- back up the biosphere, And I think it's really quite important. And in order to do that, there's breakthrough and completely reusable transport system to right on the borderline of even impossible. But that's the sort of the thing that we're And then, on the Tesla front, the goal with cars can do. Because people had the wrong impression, and electric vehicle. Because they used to think of it as something a golf cart. So, that's why we created the Tesla Roadster, long range. And it's amazing how -- even though you the calculations are very clear, until you can drive it, it doesn't really sink in So that I think is something worth nothing. If you're going to create a company, the a working prototype. Everything looks great on PowerPoint. You can make anything work on PowerPoint. But, if you have an actual demonstration article, much more effective in convincing people. So, we made the Tesla Roadster, and now we're sedan. Because after we made the Tesla Roadster people could make a car like that, it's an expensive that but can you make a real car?' Okay, fine, we're going to make that, too. So, that's coming out soon. And so that's where things are and hopefully, I think the overreaching point I want to make 21st century. Don't let anything hold you back. Imagination is the limit. Go out there and create some magic. Thank you.