check out these performances from &quot;here comes the sun&quot; ringo starr, driving the and the songwriter, george harrison playing and singing harmonies with paul. here so cool right? i mean, getting to hear these master class in songwriting, performing, arranging harrison's masterpiece &quot;here comes the sun&quot; welcome back to the channel and the premiere to thank you for watching, subscribing, commenting couple years ago, just to pass along the best of performer and producer. so blow up the song is we're going to take some of the greatest songs and final mix. we're going to listen to individual you know, how the music got arranged, performed the kind of musical synergy that happens in you'll hear how creative the individual parts are, the best musicians make mistakes, and ultimately its parts. i couldn't think of a better song for george garrison, recorded over the course of seven 1969, and released on the last LP the beatles ever know is that john lennon doesn't even play or sing from a car accident. so it's just george, paul always overshadowed by lennon and mccartney's. so they always treated him like a little brother musician and songwriter. kind of like &quot;yeah, our equal.&quot; so george had always been limited and that frustrated him. but it also gave him an sessions with george martin producing. john and a backlog of complete songs ready to record. contributions to abbey road -- &quot;something&quot; and well, two of the best known and most popular george's first solo album after the beatles and it was loaded with all those great songs alright, let's blow up here comes the is that this is a guitarist's song. it in fact george wrote the song on an acoustic that he'd taken a day away from the business and company, apple, and he was just feeling relief you and into this unforgettable song. so here three brilliant guitar riffs. if you want to realize there are really only three sections there's the chorus riff... and there's the sun sun sun bridge riff... take a look at the song structure. there are really help keep the song interesting even though guitar intro is actually the first verse. it just george first starts singing, he's actually singing way to start a song than with a really memorable that's a Gibson SJ-200 in standard tuning, and gives it that light dreamy quality. i mean to so he's playing that D chord shape at the ninth you try to play along with the beatles, you'll tone above standard pitch. and no one seems running a little fast when they did the final whole thing just sound a little more optimistic. so it kind of sounds like fingerpicking, hear the guitars alone, you can hear but hey they don't matter at all once and i think that's an important discovery for of the best-known songs by the most popular band mistakes. stuff that most people would never real and not manufactured. it actually reminds me imperfections in anything they create, because the imperfections spirit lines or spirit pathways for imperfection. notice how one phrase is a and the guitars are just a little out of tune with but there's no higher octave and that's how we but they sound great together, even out of tune. guitar-only reduction mix is an electric that's actually playing through a leslie speaker effect, with the pitch wobbling up and down. so verse 1 played by george on guitar and then adding and they start hard-panned to the and then the moog slides to the center and okay the vocals enter on the george alone or doubled and then with here comes the sun and i say it's so it's really kind of a masterful moment when so by the time of abbey road, the beatles had format. and when you arrange and record a song dimensions, from left to right, and from front up front and some should sit behind, and forward or backward and left or right there's actually a lot of movement in the but important of the background parts are plus a 17-piece orchestra arranged and conducted four cellos, a double bass, two piccolos, two but most of the arrangement is just the with just the guitars. it's actually a song so if we count the guitar intro verse, there are bridge, you know the sun sun sun section. climax where they're singing &quot;sun sun sun here arrangement choice that kind of grabs the ear, to hear a phrase four times, not five. so that feel more intense. now the bridge time signature 5/4 time followed by two bars of 4/4, all repeated five, one two three four, one two three four, one three four, and so on. all right now, let's blow george and paul's harmonies are double-tracked, moving around in the mix. they're getting panned phrases... ringo's jamming away and paul is driving the bass with strong hits all the way through, and a little i'd never noticed that until hearing the solo actually the moog. it comes in on the second part in the bass register, and then it adds a another octave, and then moves up ANOTHER octave and then the orchestra with the woodwinds supports the guitar part and leads you know, when we get there, it's such a release, the ice is slowly melting and the world right during that whole last verse and double melodies on the moog along with the strings. the moog is almost a subconscious part hey all right after the last two choruses there's and all this sun-filled brilliance leads that 5/4 bridge riff just one time, guitars it certainly is &quot;all right.&quot; now that we've blown it fun hearing all the details you probably missed in the description. this is actually a really he went back to the original tracks before mix. i think it's beautiful because and we don't have things crunched thanks for being here to blow up the song with me. a comment. Like the video, subscribe and hit the as always, i post all these videos on get your fill of guitar, vocal and