- Hello everybody and welcome. How is everybody today? Great. Well, I'm delighted to to be giving the DeVane Lectures. And the DeVane Lectures, as you can tell, from looking around you double as being a regular Yale course for credit that students can take for credit and lectures that are open These lectures are going to in today's world and by today's world, I'm gonna mean the 30 years since 1989 and the 30 years since 1989 are and have been an incredibly of very great change. And that's for xxx unusual. For instance, if you compare in most of the advanced they were a period of relative stability after World War II. In most countries, it was even countries recovering like the countries of with Marshal Plan aid and it was a period, partly for demographic reasons, of very great political stability for people who grew up in that period. Internationally, as well, it was a period of very great stability because partly, because of the Cold War. It's true we had episodes and the Vietnam War but as most of the conflicts within the Cold War were played out as you like, as proxy wars in other parts of the world. From the point of view of the citizens of the Western democracies, except for those who are it was a far-off war that on the stability of people's lives and that is very different since 1989; time, if you like, We've seen incredible And those are the three decades that I am going to be exploring. One pedagogical challenge that presents is that for some of us in this room, the last three decades as like it was yesterday. We experienced them in real time but there are many people in this room who were never born until long after that. For them, whether it's the last 40 years or the last 60 years, after World War II, it's all history. One of the first things I need to do and I'm gonna try and make during the course is I and to make people what it was like and then to remind people who've lived through it of things that they might have forgotten. So let's just go back to 1989 in Berlin. - The Berlin Wall, once now on its way to becoming (upbeat music) This the CBS Evening News. Dan Rather, reporting of the Brandenburg Gate Good evening. These are the sights and sounds of the continuing celebration of Germans about the symbolic, not the but the symbolic tearing It's impossible to completely describe how deeply Germans feel East German border guards tonight were literally tearing down not the whole wall but to make it easier for East and as the joyous hordes of Berliners were still streaming through the wall, the East German communist government said they can come and go permanently, they can come into West and then come back home again with no special documents required. Today, what goes through - Well, of course, I look of hardship for the for the country as a whole and it's moving to see families getting together again. My feeling is that we are very close to an end of the artificial and I also believe we where the parts of Germany will This, of course, only within the reasonable Anyone know who that was? Xxx Billy Braun, the former who actually would die a couple of years, three years after that, so he was one of the So that might give you a and the enthusiasm that people experienced in the latter days of 1989. This had been a period was clearly losing its It wasn't just Germany. Right across Eastern there had been these massive and the Soviet Union was losing, it was clearly not in in these countries. And they were shedding for the first time in decades. Of course, the great exception which we will be talking where demonstrations in Tiananmen Square that June had come out, but in most of the world, after 1989, it seemed like democracy was on the March. We saw the democratization of all of the former Soviet Union bloc even places like South in a bitter conflict for the early 1990s to a The problems in Northern with the Good Friday Accords in 1997. Even Israel-Palestine which had been one of the most intractable seemed to be moving towards a There were the Oslo Accords, the PLO and the Israeli government Anyone who was in Israel or the West Bank at that time anticipated to be a settlement until the assassination of one of the key in November of 1995. And that would lead to an unraveling of that potential settlement it's really I think difficult to overstate the enthusiasm for change. This is the period when Francis Fukuyama was talking about the end of history by which he meant that liberal democracy was sweeping the world. In fact, at the turn of the 21st century, we finally went from a world in the world were not democracies to a world in which most by most standard measures. So it's not surprising that of enthusiasm that and that was almost, what's the word? Just snowballing across so Enormous confidence in and enormous confidence in the idea that many people were gonna and that the world was heading for a kind of benign equilibrium, as an economist would say, now let's fast-forward three decades and let's stay in Germany and to look at. (speaking in foreign language) (audience cheering) (speaking in foreign language) So he's a leader of the far-right anti-immigrant, anti-system political party is that they have This is the AFP here on this graph. Germany has a 5% threshold to get seated in the parliament so if you they hadn't gotten 5% before and so they saw themselves in German electoral Germany, in 2017 was in which there had been a grand coalition between the SPD which is the left of said Social Democratic Party Christian Democratic Party And the SPD were very unhappy, they had been in this grand and they found that they with their supporters. They were getting less for reasons we'll talk and they announced that they in a grand coalition again into opposition and rebuild themselves. Angela Merkel then spent Alternative for Deutschland were and still are seen as beyond the pale, nobody will form a government with them. So she spent the next six months trying to put together a coalition with the Green Environmentalist Party and the so-called Free Democrats. The Free Democrats would be in this country, as They are for small across the board. It's not surprising because the greens want green regulation. They want environmental regulation. That's their raison d'etre want no regulation or So they stumbled along in but they weren't able to form a coalition. However, over the course all the opinion polls showed that the AFD, the Alternative for Deutschland was actually rising in popularity. And so the German having another election in with the Social Democrats refusing to join in a grand and Merkel's inability to construct a different coalition on the other. They all knew that if they the AFD would do even better. So finally, after much hand-wringing, the SPD was persuaded after extracting a very big set of concessions, and the Finance Ministry. They were persuaded to go even though a lot of their So terrified were they of the in which the far right So we thought German politics at this point but the following year, this is what you see happening. - [Presnter] German who's led Germany for 13 as her party's leader for office again after Her announcement came the Christian Democratic Union, saw a disappointing performance in the state of Hesse. The far-right, Alternative claimed more than a dozen for the first time. The entire migrant in all 16 of Germany's state Parliament's plus the National Bundestag - So there it is. They had also done very poorly in the Bavarian regional elections. They had hemorrhaged about in these regional the SPD wasn't very happy either because they were hemorrhaging And this is something in many European countries. The establishment parties are and the parties on the fringes are growing and becoming stronger. And it was impossible about the past and thinking particularly about the 1920s and 30s. (speaking in foreign language) - [Presenter] As a result of the Nazis became the with 37% of the vote. - So if you wanna go back to the 1930s, you can see that that video was and you can see what happened that it was a very unstable system. They were having multiple 18 months later, Hitler came to power. And if you go to Germany, you hear very anxious people talking about is this back to the future? Is 2017 and 2018 some kind of extremist parties and of course, it wasn't just Germany. In 2016 we had massive shocks delivered to establishment parties in the UK and Donald to the presidency in the US, both widely unanticipated outcomes by most of the establishment parties, And you could go around the world. In the Austrian elections of 2016, people are very relieved the Green candidate actually quite handsomely by 54 to 46% but if you look at the legislature, again, you see the the establishment parties in the 2017 legislative elections. These are the parties that would normally have come in first and second while the far-right putting them a close third with 51 seats, while the Greens fell below or if you look at Belgium, retains its majority but if you can see that there for the far-right Flemish Vlaams Belang which received almost 12% If you look at Italy, you can see the center-left party ceding but many of the votes for are coming from the league, so-called, again, a far right-wing populist party which ends up with 125 seats and 17% of the popular vote, of 109 seats and I could put up another of different countries that in country after country across Europe both Eastern Europe and Western Europe, including countries that of civil social democratic You see these far-right Turkey, Latin America, elsewhere, where anti-establishment also verge on being anti-system parties are gaining ground in many legislatures. So if you think about the contrast between the videos of has been since 2016, it and in some ways, it's a big downer but my first thing I wanna say It's not all of course, for depression. The central questions of How did we get from there to here? What are the challenges and And most importantly, in how could we get to a better place in many of the countries We'll spend a lot of time on the US but not exclusively in the US. I should say a little bit that I'm gonna be taking not to say it's the best approach; there are many ways to look but it is the approach And the first thing I would is that I'm going to be studying history with the tools of political science and political theory on the one hand but also using history and political theory honest. So what do I mean by that? Well, one thing that is remarkable is that they supply us with from the point of view If you look at the of people who studied before 1989, they were essentially of theories through the same old data set that everybody had had for four decades. And they didn't have any 1989 is a big shock to we have, for instance, in Western Europe, in Eastern Europe, the addition of a whole lot of new That creates possibilities of thinking about long-established testing theories against new data which is the gold standard rather than testing theories on data out of which the theories which tend to result in just-so stories, fitting Suddenly we have all this new data, coming along in real time. If you think about and some of the standard like modernization about how as economies modify, certain kinds of political It was long held that There were many variants And we will talk about some but now we have new data and will produce democracy. It is long been conventional are incompatible with state-run economies. If we look at what's happened since 1989, we've gone to market economies in some of the post-communist like China and Vietnam have of a certain kind while retaining So we'll have cause to of that general sort. There's been a lot of conventional wisdom about the conditions for stable democracy that suddenly can be put to the test on a whole slew of new democracies. Is it all the economy stupid or do beliefs of citizens matter? And what kinds of beliefs matter and what about the beliefs of elites? All of these things, we can look at again, in new contexts. So we have lots of new provided by this dramatic break of 1989. There's a lot of conventional wisdom about the relations between and labor that has built up and political scientists before 1989. We now have big power shifts as an economic system has Well if communism, as an economic system, is taken off the table, how between business government and labor? It turns out it really has a big impact on those relationships. So that's another of the How do electoral systems provision of environmental legislation and public goods? A lot of conventional wisdom there about which types of to do that and which are start to look before and after 1989 and we're gonna discover that some of the conventional So on the one hand of political science and the to bear on the data that's thrown up by this last 30 years of history. On the other hand, we're using that data to keep the political scientists honest, precisely because we have of new results as a social but then I also said of political theory. So political theory, I should by my first profession, if is I'm a political theorist. I cut my teeth in the world I'm in normative things how the world should be organized, rather than empirical work We are definitely gonna be thinking about normative questions what should happen, but the confession I need to is that it reminds me of who goes up to a farmer in Donegal and says how do I get to Dublin and the answer that comes back is well, I wouldn't start from here, sonny. That is to say much of develops theories that take no account of where we actually that people argue about in the journals and in the literature in the world, if at all. And this spills over made by other scholars. Thomas Piketty in his book, Capital in the Twenty-First Century, argues for a 4% global wealth tax. Well, good luck with that. Who's gonna implement So when I think about normative questions, it's gonna be from the perspective of how might the goals actually be achieved. I am going to spend, as we go along, through the different topics I am gonna be focusing on paths not taken, things that might have and here the sorts of things are things like NATO of the Soviet Union, the NATO alliance, we'll talk about this next week which was expanded over to include most, eventually, all of the former Soviet bloc countries and there were overtures, also to including former several others. I'll, talk about this Ukraine, both talking about, the reason the Soviet So we will talk about not taken at that time French thought that NATO should be shut down at the end of the Cold War that had lost its purpose. How realistic was that? how might the world have been we're going to be talking about the Global War on Terror I should in after 9/11 when, we invaded first Was there another path that would have been politically the world in a different direction. We will talk about the response to the financial crisis what were their possibilities that, were, ignored or overlooked both politically feasible in the sense of policy to underscore the third feature of the approach that I am course which is when you look at, people who talk about public policy, it tends either to be about what would be, the best policy or political scientists who talk about why some policies get adopted in some systems and not in other systems but there's very little discussion of what is the effective political way of achieving a good policy or the effective political way of blocking a bad policy and so when I the last part of the to be in a way that marries considerations of politics to considerations so, that that is the flavor of what we're going to be doing here and as I said it's not the these materials ,but it's to be doing it in this course. Let me talk a little bit It falls into five, sections. The the first one is going to starting on Monday deal with the and its aftermath. There we going to look in Eastern Europe in Russia, in China and in Vietnam. about some other countries along the way. We're going to talk about until 1989, we had a as I said a lot of actual stability, that came about as a at least among the the major powers even if they maintained this stability, partly by, acting out their conflicts in proxy wars in, Asia, Africa and at America but it by and large the great powers were the and we didn't have a major Now we have gone to a by a single power ,after 1989. How does that restructure politics and the possibilities for also part of our concern. And then I'm going to of the economics. What I'm going to call the and the Washington Consensus abroad and this is put on this is basically it comes to, exist because of the collapse of an the disappearance of communism as a viable economic system and so you have this idea that's that basically has three elements. Its trade deregulation, of restraints on trade, getting within countries, and of formerly state assets that was called, the neoliberal approach to political public political economy. And when it's translated into a set of recommendations or requirements for countries in the developing world, it was called the Washington Consensus, was essentially adopted by the World Bank by the IMF as a condition for giving loans to developing countries and it, was essentially taking And so the, post communist era is marked by, this massive confidence in, the the capacity of unregulated or mildly regulated to deliver the best results, the world then we're going to talk about the new global order, that We're going to look at was on the march the people thought about a potential we had talked again the conventional wisdom in the democratization had The first wave being the franchise in what we think of today as the older democracies, the second wave being decolonization in Africa and Asia and Latin The third wave coming in 1989 to 1991 and people started to a fourth wave now with with settlements in places initially with the Arab we were going to start to this new global order. Then we're going to look at that developed in this global order, we'll talk about things like, the International Criminal Court which for the first time would for their activities of repression. There was the creation and of at the United Nations called Responsibility to protect, says that this was in the wake of, things of 1994 and what happened in we got responsibility was said all governments are going to be held accountable for within their own territories the UN is going to intervene, big change we're saying we're not going to respect the sovereignty of Nations so the new international affecting not only but relations within them. The third part of the course I'm calling the end of the end of has its ultimate roots with 9/11 and the emergence of the The invasion of Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and eventually the collapsing Syria we're going to see that was heading in some benign direction, was getting harder and harder we're going to look at the we're going to look at and is doing in Africa. We are going to be looking as a global power, they had for much of the 1990s and early 2000 but now they became actively and elsewhere, we're going to, look at, the new role of business in the world sometimes with but often not and so we're a much messier politics. The fourth part of the course, is about the new politics of insecurity. This is really ushered in not so much by the financial crisis in which governments responded and this will be one of the areas where we will be looking we will see that there in the workforces of many that had been building up for decades, and the financial crisis, threw into sharp relief the fact that most governments about it if anything at all and in fact that they ended while doing nothing much, for the people who have been and so we will look at the response to, the financial crisis in a number of countries and then we will all in the what is to be done that we will be looking at, two things really. First how the, voter sentiment in these countries was, by so many, political elites and people in control of to the point where not only to the growing economic insecurity, that was experienced by many, within their own countries. They were actually that were likely to make things worse. And so the last part of the those two interacting issues. What sorts of economic or failed to be pursued. What kinds of policies and how did the reform the last 15 or 20 years, make the problem worse to make some arguments, about politics going forward. So, that is what we're going, to be doing. It's a big menu, we have, you know we have 26 now soon to be 25 lectures in which to explore it. I'm going to, before breaking today, I'm going to talk about One is that I have been you can see for yourself, that the Office of Public Affairs is, taking pictures and to be videotaped. And this will include, we can have questions from but you should know that, this is all being tape recorded and so anything you say can be taken down and used in evidence against you. So, a couple of other logistical things. One is I want to introduce Christina, she's the head teaching fellow for the course so for the grading of students for, credit and she will in, running office hours for which we're both going to be doing. I'll say a little bit more about that in a minute but, you will see more of Christina as we go along. Office hours I'm gonna be having office hours in Rosenkranz room 201 from 10:00 to 12:00 on The presumption there is that from 10:00 to 12:00, Yale These are walk-in office and on 10:00 to 12:00 the community have priority but who knows if anyone will show up but 201 Rosenkranz Hall the new colleges up the street. Christina is going to have office hours for people from the from 5:00 to 7:00 at a place yet to be announced and one the office hours are not just we're going to, Christina and I are going to film five sessions over the course of the semester, where she and in the office hours and we will post that, on the course website. I do this with my Coursera course and it proves to be quite helpful. So, we will get questions that have come up in the office hours both in our office hours between the students and that they will be participating those videos of the office hours on the course website. Access to reading. Anyone who has a Yale the readings on Canvas, there's a few, I think three of the book, we're using too much for copyright reasons but they're all in the library for anyone who doesn't want to buy any. The, people from the community in the New Haven Public Library to Canvas us a couple that we're being using in the course or you can get them that way. Those who are taking, the for credit the official exam is the last afternoon of which I'm sure some of you have that are, inconsistent with that. So actually we're going to One on December 11th and this is primarily to accommodate SOM students because, of the timing of the SOM and that exam will, if we can arrange it be held at SOM, and then there'll be, but others can take it And then there'll be an another the 13th so there'll be different times at which people can take the exam. Policy here will be no laptops, I came to this policy It definitely works better. It's just too tempting to be for your grandmother's birthday present that you forgot about not only for the people also distracting for me, to teach. We will post the slides on Canvas and on the course web page off the lectures so people will have access, to the slides. What you'll find is if the slides on Canvas, they'll look like they'd and the video will not play. If you want to play the the slides and then it will as playable videos, so it is possible to play the video, yes so no laptops, no screens, no phones and everything, everything I to you, so you don't have of what appears on slides. Comments, questions. Yes, sir, you're gonna have to yell. We will have microphones (student speaking faintly) You can't. So that's why we put a in a New Haven library it's not just Yale being mean. It turns out there're two so if you are photocopying you are allowed to take otherwise you have to buy the book if you're using it but have a more permissive rule. So we can take more than 10% from a book. I've forgotten what the exact number is but it's much more than 10%. We can take more than 10% from a book and put it up on Canvas to Yale students but if to the general public, Yale would be violating copyright laws. So that's why we have bought and put them in a New from which we have been So you should be able of the readings if you wanna go down there and get them. Other questions, comments, observations? If there's a question in your mind, it's probably in the so they'll be grateful if you ask it. Yeah, you just have to yell. (student speaking faintly) Are we gonna look at the (student speaking faintly) We're certainly gonna look at the growth of the European Union and the expansion of the European Union since, in fact, we're gonna talk about it next class. We're gonna look at the since the Cold War. I'll talk very briefly about the early, this course is really post 1989. We've just hired David who are both cold war historians who are gonna be teaching So if you really wanna deal from into war Europe II to these are the guys who that stuff going forward in Yale College. So I'm very consciously not doing that. So I will talk about the way was formed which has had a lot to do with its current troubles but mostly, I'm gonna focus on since 1989. Yeah, pardon? (student speaking faintly) There are no sections in this course. This is why we have an rather than a 50-minute lecture. Yeah. (student speaking faintly) The topics for the papers before the papers are I should say a couple This is not a research course so you can write a first-rate the material on this syllabus. You are not expected to And we will post, two weeks a list of topics of and it will be, there will be very significant so we'll probably give you to write about. Yes, sir. What is the expectation The same course requirements, Yeah. Yes, sir. Pardon. - [Student] Is there a to join the class? - No, there's no limit. This is an uncapped course. I'm hoping we can stay in Numbers tend to go down rather than up during shopping period. It's not a capped course. Yeah. (student speaking faintly) People have taken courses that I have a pretty So yes, there will be microphones and there will be questions. I'm not planning to talk every Tuesday and Thursday. So there will be significant Yes sir. (student speaking faintly) Yeah, we currently, I believe, have six in addition to Christina's all of whom will be holding office hours. They'll be available and and talk to them about about your papers and so on. And the conversations you have we will also address then in that we post. Okay. So any other questions, So on Tuesday, we're gonna talk about the collapse of the Soviet to Russian gangster capitalism. I will see you then. (music)