(gentle acoustic music) - So this video will probably come as a bit of a surprise to This is life. It's real life. A year and a half ago, I set and I didn't really know what I just wanted to get out there and travel. And somewhere along the way, I ended up falling in love The spaces, the wilderness, the nature, the beauty of it all. And I started dreaming that I think, you know, many I wanted to buy some land somewhere in the mountains, and build a small cabin and live there. And I spent a good few months pursuing this dream pretty actively and looking for a place But instead of staying in the and making this country my home, I decided to leave. So the other week, I packed threw away a bunch of stuff, sold all the other things. And well, I'll come back But first, I wanna talk about I've been traveling It's been a pretty long journey. It's been amazing. Out of those six years, I spent about four traveling out of my suitcase just from one destination to another, traveling and filming and working, meeting amazing people along the way, but without a sense of home and without really any rest That's what I needed at the time. You know, that was the phase And then I got Odyssey. And Odyssey, I've had her for just over two years, And Odyssey was supposed and become a kind of something that would give security, home. And she did that very well for a while until even that became I don't know if I'm just getting older, I don't know if it's like a 30s thing or if I just maxed out I don't know what it is. But since the beginning of this year, I've really felt this profound need to build a home, make a home. I don't have to like actually build it. I mean, have a home I'm just so ready to have a base camp and just structure my life I still love travel, don't get me wrong, but I just really feel like I need to like have my own shower cabin with my own soap and shampoo. It's as simple as that. I'm not even exaggerating. So if you asked me five months ago, I probably would've told that home, that shower cabin I probably would've told you, &quot;Yep. Montana, Wyoming, like Idaho. Those are the places that But things change. Things change, and there's So first of all, I got a when I started looking It's completely unaffordable. How can anyone buy property It's ridiculous. I knew that, of course, buying but real estate prices are so prohibitive that that I would be able to like what I dream of. There's just no way that I can $600,000 on a plot of It's completely unrealistic. And honestly, that's a And of course, there's You could buy a piece of and that was an option But to be quite honest with you, I am not in a mental state right now that would allow me to and money on building a house. It's a process that takes so much time and so much mental energy that I just, it's not something I can handle. I have been feeling a slow return of the burnout that I And I think, you know, jumping into a huge house would be pretty bad for my mental health. I just don't think I am Maybe things will change But I do know for sure that right now I just need to protect my own head and my own head space and my own health. Naturally, there's also but you may know something about this. I mean, Airbnb is great and all, but unfortunately the huge especially in places has meant that renting places long-term is extremely difficult. And the prices are very prohibitive. Airbnb has very much ruined the long-term rental market It has. And so that's not really an option either. So once I really took a good and honest look at all those things, I realized that, you know, this dream is simply not something I for reasons of a financial nature, for reasons of a mental health nature, for a lot of practical So once I realized all those things, I also realized that I need And I did, but plan B involved shipping my truck back So in early 2022, I shipped my I then drove this truck to the Arctic Ocean, and then all the way down the West Coast via the Pacific Ocean, all the And more recently, you've all the way to the Atlantic Coast here in the Eastern United States. Odyssey has been my and my home on wheels And as much as I would there is one legal problem with my truck. And that is if you bring as a foreigner into the United States, you can only keep it here for a year. So if I put all the time that Odyssey has spent in it comes out to just under a year. That means that Odyssey has otherwise I could get in trouble, and I really don't want that. So here's what it looks like to ship your car to another continent. (gentle acoustic music) It's official. These are the last 10 miles that I'll drive in Odyssey And this is after a year and a half that I spent in North America, after about 50,000 miles that I drove here, (sighs) ugh, really feels like the end of an era. (soft somber music) I guess this is it. Oh, looks a little bit shady. But there's containers everywhere, and I guess this will that Odyssey will end up in. (soft somber music) You wanna go inside? I guess this is the place. I had arranged for Odyssey to be shipped from New Jersey to Europe with a German shipping agency who works with this American counterpart. Everything had been organized in advance. So the day I dropped off Odyssey, I just had to head to their office, sign a few final documents, and give the keys to my trusting and hoping in a distant land in the Hey, buddy, where did it go? Where did it go, buddy? Huh? Where did it go? So that's it. So here we are. Odyssey is already on a container ship crossing the Atlantic and she should be arriving in Europe in a few weeks from now. Meanwhile, Vilk and I are but that's about to change as well. So I know this video's from the videos that I normally make, but I just really wanted and be honest with you about, you know, the reasons It's, there are just very ordinary reasons that I think And so I hope that I can somewhere else that feels a All right, I guess I'll see How on earth am I gonna Okay, buddy. Bon voyage! - [Worker] Yep, bon voyage. - The wait is killing me. My stuff hasn't arrived Hey, if you'd like for your or if you'd like to get early access to all of my YouTube videos, or if you'd like to get access to my making of/behind the scenes videos for every single film you may wanna subscribe There's loads of different perks. Patreon is where I and travel updates where I make loads of exclusive content and we get a chance to It's a really, really great community. And yeah, if you'd like to see more of me, this is the link somewhere Anyway, see you in the